

The Bulletin
Vol 21. —No. 1055 ]
[Saturday, May 5, 1000.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a 'Newsnaper.
fItcEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. BEAVER STOUT.
FRY’S HALTED COCOA
GUARANTEED PITR.B. COCOA A.]\Tl3 EXTRACT
OF MALT.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
•9
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
- EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
270
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
SEND VOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
m
IS?
&
Mfk
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
K«I r GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St‘
Kilaa Hamvav Station and Cable Trains, hardest llote
Accommodation in Victoria. INCJUiSIVK TAUIt'K tor
Hoarders, Us. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° as m street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Ruston, Proctor & Co. t.a
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL. FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES
ECCEKTTRIO TECRASHIKT©
AND BOILERS and PUMPS.
MACHINES, SA.W BENCHES, &c.. &o
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
ANDEHAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCER
HOBART,
Hadley’s Orient jjotel.
D.S . MAT R
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2/6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
"DEST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
CO
v
*4r
"51* »
y
*2
860,112 Bottles Sola in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE
PIONEER
leather
belting
The Leauiiig' iseit ol Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
B ed exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Plices and Samples Free to ly address.
J- C. LUDOWIGT& SON, LTD.,
York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Srisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
raha , Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia..
((
Tales of the System/
PRICE is.
per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S
BOOMERANG BRANDY.
THE LATEST TESTIMONY OF APPRECIATION.
AGAIN TO THE FRONT!
By mail from London Messrs. JOSHUA BROS, have been informed that
the Army Contracts’ Director has taken a supply of their Brandy
For the Os? of the Imperial Troops ip S. Africa.
in Flasks, Half-Flasks and Bottles-
WINE!
WINE !
wine r
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inyerell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST VilHEMs* '
!N AUSTRALIA.
£3? Send for Price List
Ment ion th is 'paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.


THE RED PAGE.
Recent Reading.
Osbern and Ursynk, the new play by “John
Oliver Hobbes,” holds the pleasant futilities of a
clever London woman whose harvest is home and
whose gleanings are grainless stalks. Three acts
of contending emotions culminate in three deaths
and a verse of “ Dies Irae.” For the rest there
are Yeatsian lines—
The wood is volute with your paleness, sweet Arlette—
and Rabelaisian sentiments —
For indeed a man possesses most surely such good as
he can put into his mouth and swallow. The rest is all
appearance, phantasm, and the means to certain damna-
tion--
and nothing to keep or count.
G. W. Steevens’s war-letters From Capetown to
Ladysmith were hardly entitled to the dignity of
a Book. The “light-weight” feature of the
author’s work—that lack of solid force, possibly
resulting from a lack of vital force, which especially
differentiates Steevens from Forbes and Dr.
Russell —becomes more prominent than previously.
Steevens is the most brilliant of impressionists,
and in his account of the night after Elandslaagte,
for example, his picture-talent is well employed.
But the account of Elandslaagte itself is ineffective.
What is wanted is a plain, strong, Alisonish state-
ment of the where, why, and how of the battle,
and Steevens gives only glimpses in phrases.
Vernon Blackburn’s notice of the dead author is
loose and amorphous.
Steevens’s assertion of the E iglis'.i abuse of the
white flag is reprinted in “ The Story of Nichol-
son’s Nek ”
And then —and then again, that cursed white flag !
It is some consolation that for a long time the soldiers
refused to heed it. Careless now of life, they were sitting
up well behind their breastworks, altering their sights,
aiming coolly by the half-minute together. At the nadir
of their humiliation they could still sting—as that new-
come Boer found who, desiring one Englishman to his
bag before the end, thrust up his incautious head to see
where they were, and got a bullet through it.
What would be said of the Boers if they did this
sort of thing ?
The contrast between plain thinking and high
shrieking is especially marked in connection with
the Boer war. If any of the Jingoes were calm
enough to consider a priori arguments against
their error, the consensus of world-famous writers
on the historic plane would surely root a doubt.
The opinions of men like Spencer and Bryce can
be sneered at only by the ignorant. And in the
Feb. North American Review the German his-
torian Mommsen is found declaring that, on the
part of Britain, “this war is not only, as every
War is, a calamity, but also an infamy,” and char-
acterising it as “the repetition of Jameson’s Raid
by the English Government, dictated by banking
and mining speculations.” Which may be taken
as the opinion of every thinker uninfluenced by
patriotic bias or Rhodesian finance.
Ibsen’s new play, When We who are Dead
Awaken, does not seem likely to add to his
reputation. No English version is yet available ;
but Tolstoy, who read it in German, says “it is
simply a delirium, devoid of life, character, and
dramatic action.” And does Tolstoy’s judgment
count ? Yes ; a little—it depends on his point of
view. These lines explain Ibsen’s title and the
idea which he developes
Irene. We only see what is past beyond recall, when—
Rubeck. When? —
Irene. When we who are dead awaken.
Rubeck. Yes—and what do we see then ?
Irene. We see that we have never lived.
The chief characters are a man (Rubeck) and his
wife (Maja) who are tired of each other —and
another man (Ulfheim) —and another woman
(Irene). Each seeks sis own ends; and all go
hunting “on the mountains.” An avalanche
devours two ; two escape.
Rubeck appears as a polished man of the world with
high-sounding phrases in his mouth, but in his heart
ruthless selfishness. He is possessed of the evil spirit,
and leads Irene on to her destruction and his own.
Ulfheim, though devoid of all polish and refinement, is
yet able to recognise the danger on the mountain of
temptation, and therefore to save himself and his com-
panion from the gathering storm.
The meaning does not appear from this bald
synopsis: that fascinating game of Hunt the
Symbol may he played later on.
The pith of J. B. Atla/’s Celebrated Trials
is a good account of the Tichborne case—which
should have been perused by that Victorian Judge
who sent alleged-murderer Jones to the scaffold
protesting innocence with his last breath. The
Tichborne case proves that there is absolutely no
limit to the average person’s powers of identifica-
tion, A fixed idea is a treble bandage over the
eyes. From poor Lady Tichborne, who lost a
romantic young gentleman of 10-stone, and em-
braced in his place a 16-stone butcher who spelt
with his cleaver —down the whole list of Orton’s
witnesses—you see chiefly one thing : that who-
ever is.prepared to be deceived can be deceived till
Coleridge, Q.C., cross-examines—and afterwards.
And still, in Australia, we have devotees who wish
to set lunatic Creswell in the shoes of the man
drowned in the Bella !
A. P. Martin is “at it again” in The Literary
Year-Book for 1900. If there is one thing more
certain than another, it is that a man who has not
seen Australia for eighteen years is absolutely
disqualified from uttering ex-cathedra judgments
on Australian literature ; but, “ having introduced
Gordon to the English public,” Mr. Martin keeps
on—and London seemingly accepts him at his own
valuation. If lie would only write of the little
things lie knows about it would matter less ; but
when lie utters generalities like—
. . . taking a broad survey of Australia on the eve of
her federating into one great commonwealth, I point to
Mr. Henry Lawson and his rival, Mr. A. B. Paterson, as
the only two writers in whom the new generation will
feel any living 'interest
Tut ! tut 1
America, where the sun uses, as ..ad Kipling’s
“ new ” book From Sea to Sea for nearly
a year; England gets it later, and Australia
later still. It is becoming almost a fashion to
publish first in America, where readers and copy-
right wait for no man. From Sea to Sea is a
reprint of Kipling’s early travel-sketches—“ Let-
ters of Marque,” and so on; and uncommonly
good travel-sketches they are. Nowhere are the
writer’s clean stroke, his virile force, better seen ;
but perhaps two thick volumes of travel-sketches
at a time are too much —the pamphlet reprints
seemed to taste better. And lias n’t the mature
Kipling cut the viciousness out of the originals—
particularly on the American side !
The Black Man and the 1 Var,
It is the habit of the Australian J ingo parson,
following his brother in England, to defend Britain
for making war on the Bqers by pointing out how
badly the Boers have treated the natives. It is
“a war for humanity,” we are told. But there is
another side to the case, and the London Morning
Leader states it as follows :
Mr. Rhodes once complained with exceeding
bitterness that they think more of the natives at
home than the whole of South Africa.” In those
days the Churches were ranged against him. But
the times have changed, and Mr. Hugh Price
Hughes comes forward to plead in one breath for
Mr. Rhodes and the “niggers” who were once
such a thorn in his side. The Methodist Times
has discovered yet another pretext for destroying
the independence of the Transvaal.
Some apologists hold that we are waging war to
rescue the “ helots ” of Johannesburg from intoler-
able oppression, while Mr. Hays Hammond, of
the Consolidated Goldfields, has told us that it is
to dower them with two millions and a quarter in
increased dividends. Some ivill have it that we
are but repelling Boer aggression, while others say
that our armies are now busied in asserting British
prestige and Paramountcy. Mr. Hughes has an
entirely novel theory. He assures us that “ Eng-
land is now fighting against the slavery of the
African race as truly as the Northern States fought
against it in the Civil War. ” Whether we know
it or not, we are avenging the wrongs of the
Kaffirs whom the Dutch have so long oppressed—
for Mr. Hughes can hardly suppose that actual
slavery prevails in the Transvaal. It is a comfort-
able theory, though we doubt whether it would
justify the diplomatic provocations and the cam-
paign of lies that brought the war about. But is
it true ? Will the natives be the gainers when the
Union Jack floats over the Rand ?
* * * *
Before we consider the case of the Transvaal it
may be well to take a summary glance at the pre-
sent position of things in our own colonies and
possessions :
1. In the strip of East African coast—a
British Protectorate—which faces Zanzi-
bar, the full “legal status of slavery” is
maintained, and fugitive slaves have even
been handed back to their owners by
British officials.
2. In Zanzibar and Pemba the manumission
of slaves, presided over by Sir Arthur
Hardingb, is proceeding slowly, and many
thousands are still in bondage.
. 3. In Natal the corvee system prevails, and
all natives not employed by whites may
be impressed to labour for six months of
the year on the roads.
4. In Bechuanaland, after a recent minor
rebellion, natives were parcelled out among
the Cape farmers and indentured to them
as virtual slaves for a term of years.
5. Under the Chartered Company in Rhodesia
the chiefs are required, under compulsion,
to furnish batches of young natives to
work in the mines, and the ingenious plan
of taxing the Kaffir in money rather than
in kind lias been adopted so that he may
be forced to earn the pittance which the
prospectors are willing to pay him.
6. In Kimberley what is known as the “ com-
pound ” system prevails. All natives who
work in the diamond fields are required to
“reside” under lock and key, day and
night, in certain compounds, which re-
semble spacious prisons. So stringent is
the system that even the sick are treated
only within the prison yard. On no pre-
text whatever is a native allowed to leave
his compound.
After, all, the hands of the Northern States were
a little cleaner than our own when they championed
the cause of the slave.
w • *
It would .be easy to make an ex parte defence of
the Dutch, but we prefer instead to accept the
deliberate judgment of the only impartial writer
on South Africa known to us—Mr. Bryce. He
tells us that the laws of the Boer Republics are
indeed harsher than those of the English colonies
—though of course they in no way sanction slavery
—but, on the other hand, “ one often hears that
the Dutch get on better with their black servants
than the English do.” The attitude of both races
to the blacks he describes as “ contemptuous, un-
friendly, and even suspicious,” and elsewhere he
speaks of the ‘ ‘ deep and widespread aversion to
the colored people.” The only “ atrocity ” which
he mentions, though he gives it as an exceptional
case, was the work of Englishmen.
A white farmer—an Englishman, not a
Boer—flogged his Kaffir servant so severely
that the latter died ; and when the culprit
was put on his trial and acquitted by a white
jury, his white neighbors escorted him home
with a band of music.
We hear much of the Boer practice of flogging
natives with sjamboks. Mr. Bryce tells us that
in Rhodesia it is proposed to compel the natives
to work in the mines by means of the lash, “ de-
mands which,” he well says, “seem fitter for the
mouths of Spaniards in the sixteenth century than
for Englishmen in the nineteenth.” But there
are three broad facts which seem to show that the
Boers do not oil the whole very grievously oppress
the natives: —
1. The black population of the Transvaal has
increased under their rule from about
20,000 to nearly 700,000.
2. That they respect the honor of the native
women is proved by the fact that no race of
half-breeds is found in their territories.
S. -The blacks have not, as we were told they
would, taken advantage of this war to
wreak vengeance on their oppressors.
On the whole question we cannot perhaps do
better than say with Mr. Bryce that our country-
men “ have done so many things to be deplored,
that it does not lie with them to cast stones at the
Boers. . . . Only two sets of Europeans are free
from reproach, the imperial officials —and the
clergy.” If there has been anything to choose
between the attitude of Boers and Englishmen
towards the Kaffirs, the rather more humane be-
haviour of our countrymen is due, as Mr. Bryce
has told us, to the fact that, in days when England
was still proud that she had led the way in the
abolition of slavery, humanitarian feeling at home
did for a time ekfercise a fairly effective control
over our own colonists. But the party which Sir
Arthur Hardinge, our pro-Consul in Zanzibar,
once described in a Blue-book as “the anti-slavery
faction,” is not so strong to-day as it was when
Bright and Gladstone still lived.
We agree, therefore, with Mr. Hughes in.de-
ploring the Boer treatment of the native for the
same reason that we condemn the behaviour of
own colonists.. But to his contention that the
blacks will gain by the substitution of British for
Boer rule there is a clearer answer.
The Rand financiers have told us very plainly
what they mean to do when, as the price of
gallant lives and broken hearts, they rule as abso-
lutely in Johannesburg as they do in Kimberley.
At a meeting of the Consolidated "Goldfields Com-
of South Africa held in London on 14 Nov., the
consulting engineer boldly announced that under
English rule he hoped to cut down the wages of
the Kaffirs by one-half, and a director who fol-
lowed declared that they would compel the natives
to work for them. Here are some passages from
their speeches:—
Mr. Hays Hammond was tolerably frank:
“There are,” said Mr. Hammond, “in
South Africa millions of Kaffirs, and it does
seem preposterous that we are not able to
obtain 70,000 or 80,000 Kaffirs to work upon
the mines. . . . With good government there
should be an abundance of labor, and with an
abundance of labor there ivill be no difficulty in
cutting down wages, because it is preposterous
to pay a Kaffir the present wages. He would
be quite as well satisfied— in fact, he would
work longei—if you gave him half the amount.
(Laughter.) His wages are altogether dispro-
portionate to his requirements.” (Renewed
laughter.)
But the voice of the philanthropist spoke even
more clearly through Mr. Rudd
If they could only get one-half the natives
to work three months of the year it would
work wonders. He was not pleading for the
mines, or urging the views of capitalists, but
from the point of view of progress, agricul-
ture, public works, mines, and the general
prosperity of the country. They should try
some cogent form of inducement or practically
\ compel the native, through taxation or in some
other way, to contribute his quota to the good
of the community, and to a certain extent he
would then have to work. He was not advo-
cating slavery. As in everything else, there
were the use and abuse of labor, and there was
constantly the deliberate misuse of the word
slavery by those who wanted to raise it as a
bogey. If under the cry of civilisation we in
Egypt lately mowed down 10,000 or 20,000
Dervishes with Maxims, surely it cannot be
considered a hardship to compel the natives in
South Africa to give three months in the year to
doalittle honest work. We have in power to-day
a strong Government, but there is a morbid
sentimentality among a large section of the
community on the question of the natives, and
Government require the support of the
majority of their countrymen. Mr. Rhodes
started what was known as the Glen Gray
Act, tending to the regulation of native
labor. He knew that Sir Alfred Milner,
whom they all trusted so well, had travelled
- throughout the country, and was therefore
able now to form a pretty good opinion
with regard to the natives, and he con-
sidered that if Mr. Rhodes and Sir Alfred
Milner could put their heads together the
effect would be that they would be able to
propose something practical in this direction
which would make for the general welfare and
prosperity of the country.
As a study in complicated cant this would be
difficult to beat. In St. James’s Hall Mr. Hughes
preaches a crusade against slavery. In the City
Mr. Rudd chuckles at the prospect of forced
native labor won by the statesmanship of Mr.
Rhodes and Sir Alfred Milner. Yet Mr. Rudd
and Mr. Hughes are both defending the same war.
* * * *
What Mk. Froude said of the Dutch treat-
ment of Natives.
“If we compare the success of the Dutch in
the management of uncivilised tribes with our
own, in all parts of the world, it will he found
that although their rule is stricter than ours
and to appearance harsher, they have had
fewer native wars than we have had. There
has been less violence and bloodshed, and the
natives living under them have not been less
happy or less industrious.” — Oceana, p. 37.
* • * *
An Authoritative Confirmation.
In a pamphlet entitled Blacks and Whites in
South Africa, the secretary of the Aborigines Pro-
tection Society (Mr. H. R. Fox Bourne) thus
sums up the position :
“Unless it is accompanied by very great
and comprehensive changes in British policy
towards natives, the contemplated overthrow
of Boer rule can bring them no benefit.”
Wilfrid Blunt, at all events, is a Born Irrecon-
cilable. His “Satan Absolved” seems often
hysterical enough ; but it contains the root of the
matter. For example—
Hast Thou not heard the chanting ? Nay, Thou dost not
hear,
Or Thou hadst loosed Thy hand like lightning in the clear
To smite their ribald lips with palsy, these false priests,
These Lords who boast Thine aid at their high civic feasts,
The ignoble shouting crowds, the prophets of their Press,
Pouring their daily flood of bald self-righteousness,
Their poets who write big of the “ White Burden.”
Trash !
The White Man’s Burden, Lord, is the burden of his cash.
—There. Thou hast heard the truth. Thy world, Lord
God of Heaven,
Lieth in the hands of thieves who pillage morn and even.
And Thou still sleepest on !
Not fiction, but religion, makes the best-selling
books. Spurgeon’s sermons are credited with a
sale of one hundred millions !. A writer in
Lond. Puritan declares that the number of these
sermons sold since 1855 exceeds th 6 number of
Bibles circulated since the beginning of the cen-
tury—and the British and Foreign Society alone
prints five tons of Bibles daily.
Verses by P. b. Marston.
, LOVE LIES A-DYING.
Come in gently, and speak low,
Love lies a-dying ;
By his death-bed, standing so,
Hush, hush your crying.
Once his eyes were full of light,
Who now lies a-dying ;
Round about him falls the night,
Hush, hush your crying.
Ghostly winds begin to blow,
Love lies a-dying ;
Hark where distant waters flow,
Hush, hush your crying.
Prom a Land of Lost Delight-
Now he lies a-dying—
Visions come to haunt his sight,
Hush, hush your crying.
h rom a land he used to know—
Jjove lies a-dying—
Ghosts of dead songs come and go,
Hush, hush your crying.
Perished hopes like lilies white—
Now he lies a-dying—
Leave beside him, in Death’s night,
Hush, hush your crying.
Round about him, to and fro—
Nov/ ho lies a-dying—
Phantom feet move soft and slow,
Hush, hush your crying.
Sharply once did sorrow bite,—
O Love lies a-dying!— '
Tears and blood sprang warm and bright
Hush, hush your crying.
Pain is done now; strength is low,—
Love lies a-dying,—
Let him gently languish so,
Hush, hush your crying.
AT LOVES GRAVE
Now we stand above Love’s grave,
Shall we weep,—
We who saw and would not save?
Let him sleep.
Shall we sing his requiem ?
Ah, for what ?
Better stand hero, cold and dumb;
Vex him not.
He was young and strong and fair,
Myrtle-crowned ;
Now no myrtle wreathes his hair,
Cypress bound.
Did we slay him ? Nay, not we ;
We but said,
“ Doubts and bitter words must be.”
He is dead !
Of these doubts and words he died.
Hush; keep still!
Late regreta would but deride.
One calm will,
Perfect peace and perfect faith—
Had these been,
He had never chanced on death,
Never seen
Darkness of the under night
Where he lies,
No song on his lips, no light
In his eyes.
Leave him where he lies alone,
Void of care;
Only carve upon his stone —
“ Love was fair.”
LOVE'S RESURRECTION.
I made a grave for dead Love to lie in ;
And I dug it deep in a grassy place,
With trees above it for winds to sigh in,
Or birds to make song in through blithe Spring
days.
Then I stretched myself on the grave in sorrow,
Remembering Love, and how fair was he;
Yesterday poisoned the thought of the morrow—
Blank morrow in which no Love should be.
And I cried, “ O Love, thou'wert full of splendor
And pomp and dominion but yesterday,
Thy voice was kind and thine eyes were tender j
But all, now, all, has been taken away.
“ Love, canst thou hear?” But the wind moaned
only,— .
Only the grass on Love’s grave was stirred ;
In the trees above sang, faint and lonely,
One sad, little, bright-eyed, unmated bird.
The twilight fell as I lay and wept there;
And dew dropped silently, wetting my face;
Alone my weary vigil i kept there,
Till the moon arose in its placid grace :
And the air was charged with her benediction.
And my desolate heart was soothed and nllea
With a spirit of some divine prediction,—
And suddenly all my weeping was stilled.
Then I beheld, in the moonlight tender, # .
A presence more bright than the moon s pai
fire j ,
For there stood Love, with increase of splendor,
And my heart was made one with my heai
desire.
[Philip Bourke Marston, born 1850, died 1887,
lished during his short life several volumes of]
marked by delicate fancy and poignant feeling.
blind bv the result of an early accident; and. as
educated wholly by ear, so the whole of his verse .
dictated. A complete collection is edited £>y
Chandler Moulton.]
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
GOUGHS, GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS o t the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
DV
*3
oW-Msg
SI
m
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA an d
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION-
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, V
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 am» 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspep^


{SECOND-HAND
W AND
TVTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDN EY.
Telephone 1023.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE
Val/lV
Caution.—Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, 1 should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments form*
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part-.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
v ill perm.<n nu,\ riii' .vou. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
• Iso Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
y Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
r Proprietor:— STEPHEN GREEN,
r 2lO Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
■ Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my Invaluable little pamphlet.
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
“LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE ECZEMA (“Psoriasis
Acne ”). BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. Prom all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT, VIC.
HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL . .
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS of ENERGY,
etc. Has CURED Thousands for the BLOOD,
SKIN, NERVES, RHEUMATISM, etc.
ThisFreeßookabout
the Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40
pages of useful information, and will be posted in
plain cover absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address: •
The Irving Homoeopathic Co.,
Comer Hunter and Bligh Streets,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
STOPS COLD
This Well-known Remedy for»
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and. rest.
Safe and pleasant for Children.
H
AV MAN’S
BALSAM
“ I use a good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had Whooping
Cough and could not rest, found it the-
greatest relief.”—E. M. D., The Elms,
June, 1893. Faringdon.
AGENTS— Elliott; Hoffnung • Duerdin;
A. Drug Co.; Felton; Faulding; Falk.
CURES COUGH
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €ri)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU OET
Row’s Cnjbrocatioi)-
Presentation Cases
(Drawn about Half-Size)
RAZORS
W. JNO. BAKER’S Leather, Velvet and Silk lined cases of Razors,
containing 2 of Baker’s Standard Sheffield Razors, ivory handles, full
hollow-ground, finest quality, very handsome.
21s. per case, complete, post free. If with black handles, 15s. per
case, complete, post free.
A customer, writing under date 24th July, 1899, says : “ The
two razors obtain d from you in 189 J are both as good as
ever, and neither of them during the whole period has
touched an oil stone.”
W. JNO. BAKER, CUTLER, 3 Hunter-st., Sydney.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices: * 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores—Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAti TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. m.
S YDNE Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
LAWRENCE’S PATENT TOBACCO CUTTER.
Price £6.
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
Note. —These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended to tobacconists
in the country, so as to enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Out and Moist Tobacco.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.
\\VI
$
•sc
w
%
4 o //fi
Kk .'//i. y# / J
K
% t
MSB
[fllS
iWIIL
anmnnnm
Combines Perfection of
Quality with Absolute
Purity.
IN
BLACK BOTTLE
AND
BULK
EVERYWHERE.
Jlsk for D.C.C.
.i*- 1 “if
''fokltffM
PLAIN NOM€ TALK
KMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the ‘information em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy', is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestli g, post, is.
Love and Paren t ge, 8d posted.
Modern Etiqueit — Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His ( wi Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Maqio. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (.Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest soring
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
MEDICATOR
is inflammation of the
v -' lining membrane of the nose
lining
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?e Catarrb CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
“ COMMON HENSE EAR Dli UM. ”
THE
DEAF
HEAB
pOMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing*
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
Hat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Jhow long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
(Tho B. and N. Treatment).
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Antenna, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. NEUROZONE is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
271 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Hypnotism
4*
Reader, why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explain*
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a shori
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in . A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-
notize. It is a chance of a
life-time. Address—
41
Prof. R, H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Rowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
LOZENGES.
DRUNKENNESS
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address —R. CORNWALL, Manager Mating Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering
or
EUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person raking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TORONTO,
CANADA
A
A
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE ’
high-grade farm implements andmachTner?


TATTERSALL’S
Aaaress: Car© CEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Adelaide 0.
May 9
Please allot me Bhares in the above.
Name
Address
May 24
Birthday C.
£O,OOO Subscribers at &
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo shares in above.
Name
Address
£ t i
Ellesmere S.
June 1.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALI*
Please allot me_
.shares in the above.
Name.
£ 9 |
Address.
Canterbury Midwinter H.
June 23.
00,000 Subscribers at O.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ shares in above.
Name .
Address _
£, • x
Birthday C. (special).
DRAWN MORNING OF THE RACK
£O,OOO Subscribers at £.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
June 7.
Newcastle C.
25,000 Subscribers at S.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name ■
Address
Grand National H. Jul ? 7
100,000 Subscribers at 0.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the abore.
Name.
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


modern
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
\
\
BAND SAW JHiiix.S. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
jGol®e
I
W3^
Beware- '•"• ■*»#
of InilATioNS
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
IB
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation—all prices—ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Manager.
XJSE
Spoopgr’S
ROYAL HAVY.DRESSIRC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS U SHOES
; OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
!=:: DIREC l lONS FOR OSE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mortal Sin.
"... Pish !
He’s a good fellow, and ’twill all be well.”
Fitz Gerald’s “ Omar,”
A pail* of terror-stricken baby eyes,
That blankly stare at me in dread surprise :
There are no chances to prevaricate,
Caught in the act by an avenging fate !
Was not that currant-bush forbidden fruit?
Alas ! the reckless criminal is mute.
Did I not give particular command ?
But there ! It seems she cannot understand.
Poor baby ! what a guilty, hopeless glance !
I cannot keep my solemn countenance
As I behold her in her woeful plight,
But laugh Ha ha 1 Ha ha /—and kiss the mite.
She stood before the throne of God on high,
A quaking soul beneath her Maker s eye ;
And the despair of certain, hopeless doom
Cast even Heaven’s brightness into gloom.
The knowledge of unpardonable crime,
Of sullied innocence and wasted time,
Of reckless disregard for human law
Burnt in her consciousness ; and faint with awe
She trembled on the brink of livid Hell,
Just waiting for the sentence fierce and fell.
And God beheld her, steeped in mortal sin,
And laughed Ha hal Ha ha /—and thrust her in !
N.Q.
VON KOTZE.
Love and Intuition.
She bent very close in the dark till her hair
Brushed over his cheek.
’Twas as silk, and the scent of it perfumed the air;
But the Voice of the Past, it had whispered
“ Beware ! ”
Had he hearkened it speak.
Close, closer she crept, and her arm wound him
round
Till, searched through and sunned
By a perilous sweetness, his reason uncrowned
In the dust tumbled down ; in her witchery found
A brilliance that stunned.
But he paused yet a little ; he heard from afar
The Voice of the Past;
“Her blood and thy blood, they are daggered for
war;
S )6 was bom from the first not to make thee, but
mar,”
And his soul stood aghast.
“ Her hands they are red with the blood of thy
sires;
Ancestrally, she
Drank as incense the fumes that coiled up from
their pyres,
Their moans were more sweet than the sweetest of
lyres
Low-toned o’er the sea.
“ Canst thou touch her and kiss her who wrought
thee this wrong,
Who dimmed thy race-star ?
Her soul and thy soul are asurge and athrong
With foe-forces that warred through the centuries
long,
And for ever shall war.
His fingers unclasped her wreathed fingers; she
felt
The ice at their tips.
Then, firing, she sought with new ardours to melt
The frost in his veins, cooing softly, and knelt,
And so moist were her lips,
lied and moist in the dark, that, enslaved by her
charms,
He stooped then and there,
And locked in her beautiful prison of arms
He laughed at the Past, the instinctive alarms
That bade him beware.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
“ Ancient ” : Had extensive dental opera-
tion by Sydney doctor under gas and ether. Had
very bad dreams. Thought I was sailing a boat
in a race through the swing opening in Pyrmont
bridge. Man standing on bridge put his arm
round my throat and held the boat back whilst
*he other beggars sailed away from me. My
struggles whilst choking, as I thought, were some-
thing awful, and when I came-to it was amongst
the wreckage of a beautifully-finished dental chair.
Dentist took it like a lamb and never billed me
for a penn’orth of damage.
It was midnight when Smiggs crept out,
and after listening, cautiously proceeded to his
right-hand-neighbor’s yard, opened the gate and
disappeared. Soon afterwards a soft thud broke
the stillness ; then another, and another. Bagster,
who dwelt next door to Smiggs on the left-hand
side heard and located the sound. Something
was being dropped into Smiggs’s yard. He made
his way to where the sound was.. As he stood
there listening, something fell at his feet; it was
a chunk of wood. Then he knew—Smiggs was
stealing his neighbor’s fuel. Should he raise an
alarm ? No ! Perish the thought! Besides, he
was out of wood himself. Picking up each piece
as it fell, he transferred it over the fence to his
own yard, taking care to drop it where it would
make the least noise. Then hearing Smiggs
climbing up the fence Bagster fled silently with
the last piece of timber under his arm, . and
vanished like a baseless aspersion in the night.
And Smiggs, after an hour’s hard wood-stealing,
dropped into a yard that was as bare of timber as
when he started.
Gi-O TO HBLL-
IGOI.ANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
Australia!) Provident Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 165.,
£S 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
H. HILtIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER. 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
FAC-SiMILE OF
ROYALTESTIMONIJU.
FOR THE
yA>KO
<
*RADE MARK
BECISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
2 S'% /S l^.
9-iy> *TA4. xo
&tnjc Olsl. SxiA<-vT. Q *3
CU: ukjt *^uX
’tzXJLs*-*^'
A/VN-
It'jJ
KOKO
,a-Vs^
HAIR
e rlJ rf and Dandriff. Prevents Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and its
b..ndo U b.«d.,.K.
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, Cool, & Invigorating, i 26 &4 6 * 1 nwnnS cwr*
Stores 4c. THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO.. LTD., 16. Bev.s Marks, LONDON, ENG.
Harry Franks,
VICKERY’S BUILDINGS,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I have the representation in Australasia of this
“ DEY REGISTER.
Used by Employers as a check on their Employees.
Calland see same at
above address, it is
well worth inspection ;
or write for particulars.
I have the representation also of the
“HAMILTON
CASH REGISTER.”
Certainly the CHEAPEST on the market,
and AS GOOD AS ANY out here.
If yon are a Buyer of a CASH REGISTER,
I can SAVE you MONEY on your Purchase.
EIJM A A OJ\ A
CO.. BlocliA r cade f 31elbourne_A^fjent.
3ST.S.
Carriage & Saddlery JZSS? 11 ***'***'’
W 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfem. SYDNEY
When in town, pav ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? It so, send for our Price List. Aou
will save 20 per cent, by buying froni us. , . .
Our One-man Sulky, ±6; 2-Spring Siilk es. L" ,
3-Spring Sulkies, L 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double* Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s Pheatons (single and doublei. Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
erintion at the very Lowest Prices. Send us
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Patalorue and Price List. NOTICE.-Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
to Redfern Railway Station).
(close
OUR SPECIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
bR '*-^1
PeliYered at any Wharf Or
JTJS.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-


THE
PLUM
Price—SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
m the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
& A.ITKB3XT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYD3NTEY.
The Australian (Didoes’ paid [ife Assurance Society [td.
. . Established 1871.
JL H 1-V. ■ rY ’ c in a . ', fc !°, n *° transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
wmcn issues Special Policies granting—
tt ° f prel ' liunl in the event ot temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood:
u. A raid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £320,000
Offices; 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] .» GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TatterSall’S Hotels
Pitt Street, Sydney. w. a. acauager.
Four Minutes to Leading Theatres
and 0.F.0i
' J: . t . t
This Hotel has been built for
this purpose i—To give visitors
to Sydney the best cuisine,
accommodation, attention, and
facilities in the Southern Hemi-
sphere.
WOO LG ROWERS!
The enormous amounts that we have expended
in building WAREHOUSES for the
most advantageous display of your Wool and Produce is one of the ways in which we have studied your interests
before our own.
our supporters.
IT IS OUR POLICY to never spare our own resources in getting every possible good result for
ALL THE EXPERTS and BUYERS pronounce our Warehouses:
THE BEST IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE!
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L™
GIVE US
YOUR SUPPORT
Financiers ;
Wool, Hides, Tallow, Shins, andl General Produce Brokers.
m
ta
m
&
CTI
B
iU
ca
fir;
-<
BB
SC
■S^*
■
sc
CSC
m
S 3
HHB . .
‘Av
it
o
CD
‘N
9 » I
■ si, > 1 .,-;
■H
•■fa:'
o
CJ
Ogcaicsi Demand
Cameo Cigarettes
Because the Best.
REFRIGERATING ENGINEERS
MEAT EXPORT COMPANIES
DAIRYMEN AND
THOUGHTFUL PEOPLE
Jhe -
W' DE
W ORLD
Over
SHOULD
READ
EXPRESSIONS
FROM
THE PENS
OF
Men You {(now
POSTED FREE!
SUBJECT
&
PAPER
RUBEROIP
PAINT
• '■< 1 r v
M
Wfr • ■ j
v
. 'f
• <
§
&5S
r
WE ASSERT WITHOUT RESERVATION
THEY HAVE NO EQUAL
THE GENUINE ARTICLE BEARS
OUR TRADE MARK
P&B
Psß '
Psß
Psß
BETTER
WRITE
IT
IN
THE
CONTRACT
I EST Y° u F ORGET
WHAT PLY
OR CONSISTENCY
E.RNM#
SYDNEY
AND
BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1055.
SATURDAY, MAY 5, 1000.
Pric* Cd.
HEBE WE ARE AGAIN.
H. Reid, at the University Commemoration last Baturday.
Derelict Citizen : “ Now, that’s wot I calls real statesmanship—every
W means 2 long beer•
TO BE WELL SHAKEN BEFORE
TAKEN.
That much-talked-of “ supply ” of
Yersin serum has arrived. There is
exactly half a dose !
Pres. Board of Health : “ Now,
bow the deuce can we make this go round? I have it I I’ll send it down <to
quarantine and let ’em raffle for it.”
WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH OUR BOYS?
HeavY Father : “ My son, the time has arrived for you to choose a vocation
in life. Shall it be commerce, or shall it be one of the liberal professions? If the
latter it will be necessary to go through the University and
Budding Manhood: “ Ah, thanks, pater; I think I should prefer to be a I
rat-catcher ! ”
CARTOONLETS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the A ustraluins. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
■ NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The. Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Perse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lilaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction , or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions. under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 18 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<fc Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 24 6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. A ustralia,
Westralia and, Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland..
Owing to the imposition oflbl. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, MAY 5, 1900.
The Sydney Wharf Resumptions.
A few days ago almost three-fourths of the
members of N.S.W. Legislative Assembly
petitioned the Lyne Government to resume
the wharves and wharf frontages of Sydney
harbor, and Premier Lyne practically pro-
mised that it should be done. This is one
of the many beneficial results of the Plague.
The same subject has been discussed in a
languid fashion for years, but, until the up-
rising of the bubonic rat along the infected
shores of Darling Harbor, very few people
took a serious interest in the matter. Now
the Government is urged by an overwhelm-
ing majority of the Assembly to buy back
the germy banks and beaches of Darling
Harbor “as the only guarantee against
the present disastrous Plague getting a per-
manent hold on Sydney.” The ONLYguaran-
tee, be it observed. The petitioners admit
that they have no hope of making the private
wharf-owner clean and reasonable. They have
no expectation that he will cease to slay his
fellow-men in order to save cleaning ex-
penses, by permitting the sodden garbage of
ages to fester underneath his property. In
this time of trouble even the bitterest oppon-
ents of State enterprise appeal to State
enterprise as the only thing that can save
them. They always do at such times and in
such circumstances. The fine old Tory
fossils of the Bank of New Zealand, after
objecting to “State interference” all the
days of their lives, went down on their knees
to Digger Dick Seddon to pray for State
interference as soon as private enterprise
had brought them to ruin. So did the fine
oid conservatives who ran the Q.N.B. on the
rocks. The caving banks of Sydney, in ’93,
promptly leaned on the broad, aggravated
bosom of the Dibbs Government for assist-
;ince —and so on ad infinitum. No doubt
many of the people who now call on the
State to abolish the private wharf-owner
because his dirtiness is incurable will revile
State enterprise and boost up the old doc-
trine of private capitalism as enthusiastically
as ever—when the Plague scare is over. But
for the present State Socialism is a harbour
of refuge and a tower of strength.
• • * *
Within two days after Premier Lyne’s
assurance that he intended taking over the
private wharves and wharf frontages of
Sydney, interviews with the owners of these
properties began to appear in the papers.
The owners, as a rule, didn’t speak in a
spirit of hostility—far from it. But they
mentioned with all their might the vast
sums private enterprise had spent on these
dirty wharves, and the immense value of the
“ private interests ” that had grown up, and
the truly immense amounts the resumption
would cost. They didn’t urge the Ministry
to drop the idea and save these immense
amounts. Rather they seemed inclined to
advocate that the Ministry should go right
on and face the expense. In a general
way they are probably willing that the State
should take their property for the public
good at 50 or 100 per cent, above its value,
if the State can’t be induced to give 850 per
cent, above value—after the style of the
State land resumption scandals and swindles
of the olden time. At all events all feel-
ing to the contrary has been carefully con-
cealed up to date.
* * * •
If the Lyne Government intends to pre-
serve any semblance of a reputation for
honesty, and the Sydney wharf resumptions
are not to be one more job added to many
previous malodorous resumption jobs, it will
be necessary to grievously disturb the equa-
nimity of these owners. The old idea of
resuming the property in a large, off-
hand fashion, and leaving the value
to be fixed by an arbitration court, is
played out. N.S.W. has “been there” be-
fore. The arbitration court, as a rule,
has no personal knowledge, or doesn’t use
its personal knowledge, of property values.
It is guided by the evidence of experts of
high standing in the city, and experts of the
very highest standing are only too often
persons who tell the most blushless yarns for
a fee—and not a very large fee either. Not
so very long ago an Australian property
expert, in a land resumption case where the
Government was the victim, attested that
the value of certain property that the State
had taken over was so much ; and when it
was pointed out to him that he had quite
recently declared to the same Government
that the value of the same property for taxa-
tion purposes was a mere fraction of this
sum, he didn’t even turn a hair. He not
only admitted quite cheerfully that he had
valued the land, when the State was to
collect taxes on it, at far less than he valued
it at when the State was to buy it, but he
apparently failed to see any sin or disgrace
in the proceeding. The court was so
accustomed to such things that it apparently
saw nothing specially objectionable about it
either. And it is questionable if there are
many well-known land-experts who don’t
act in exactly the same manner—for a
moderate fee.
* ■* * *
This time the resumption business should
be done on plain business lines. So far as
concerns the values of the frontages, apart
from improvements, the Government and
the owners agreed on them some years ago
when the land-tax valuations were made,
and values haven’t increased since then,
as proved by Coghlan’s Statistics and
many other authorities. In almost every
case, if not in every case, the figure
finally agreed upon for land-tax pur-
poses was more than what the owners de-
clared to be the real value ; so if the State
resumes the land and pays this sum (which is
more than the owners’ estimate of the worth
of their property) for it, it is quite impos-
sible that the owners can be aggrieved. Or,
better still, the value of the lands and
buildings and all improvements can
be ascertained from the municipal valu-
ation ; this would be a still more reliable
gpide, seeing that it includes the entire
property. The municipal valuation shows
the worth of everything that has to be re-
sumed, and if Parliament enacts that the
whole property is to be bought on the muni-
cipal valuation, with (say) 10 per cent, at
most added for disturbance, no one can have
any just right to complain.
* * * *
Of course the plea advanced will be that it
is a vile fraud on the proprietor to resume
his property on the municipal valuation see-
ing that it was not made for resumption pur-
poses. The Bulletin, for one, fails to see
where this argument comes in. What is
wanted is a fair valuation that will do for any
purpose—not one made for resumption pur-
poses and cooked accordingly. The munici-
pal valuation must be reasonably correct ;
no wharf - owner would be such a
swindler as to defraud the muni-
cipal treasury by getting his valuation
reduced below the true figure. If he has
been such a swindler, he should certainly
pay for his own swindle. When the valua-
tion was made he didn’t know', of course,
that circumstances would compel him to sell,
and get a specially high valuation made ac-
cordingly ; neither did the State know that
circumstances would compel it to buy, and
get a specially low' valuation made accord-
ingly—so one party is no more aggrieved
than the other. The municipal valuation
is that of an independent third party —a
retrospective arbitrator and the owner
accepted it. What reasonable person could
ask more than an independent valuation
which the owner has, in every case, accepted
as quite high enough —except when he said
it was too high 1 And if there is a doubt,
the State is quite as much entitled to get the
benefit of it as the private owner. More-
over, in this special case, the State is more
entitled to it, for it did not force the trans-
action—the transaction is largely forced upon
it by the wharf-owner. It is to a great
extent his own personal dirtiness, foulness,
neglect, and want of consideration for his
fellows, that make the transaction compul-
sory in the public interest. He has driven
the public to buy him out, and, having done
so, it is very liberal treatment if he gets the
value which he has all along declared in
his dealings with the public to be either
enough or a great deal too much. And in
strict justice he shouldn’t be compensated
for disturbance seeing that he has compelled
the State to disturb him. Instead he should
pay the State for expenses incurred in the
disturbing process.
• * • •
But if the State does not take this com-
mon-sense view, and it decides to settle the
value of the resumed property by arbitration
—that process by which the public always
pays from times to eight tifnes a fair
value—there is at least one precaution that
it must take—unless the Lynk Government
has an absolute genius for fooling away its
opportunity. In the Wharves and Fore-
shores Resumption Act it should at least be
set forth as a cast-iron enactment that, when
the value of any man’s property is fixed, for
resumption purposes, at more than the
municipal valuation, that value should be
declared to be the municipal valuation for
the last 20 years, or as much thereof
as covers the period of his owner-
ship. And from the purchase money
the State should deduct and hand
over to the municipality the amount of
municipal taxes which the owner, by his
own showing, has diddled the munici-
pality out of, through the undervaluation
of his property, during these years, to-
gether with compound interest thereon at 5
per cent.—said money to be added to the
municipal sinking funds in reduction of the
city debt. This is a strictly just and fair
and honest idea—in fact, it is giving a large
concession to the landholder. Sydney pro-
perty in 1900 is just about the same value as
in 1880. If any landholder can convince the
Arbitration Court that his property is worth
£lO,OOO, and it has been municipally valued
at only £5OOO, then he practically demon-
strates that he has swindled the city out of half
its lawful taxes for 20 years, and he should
pay up with interest. In fact, he proves
that he has swindled the city out of more
than half, for the property that was worth
£lO,OOO in 1880, before the boom, and in
1900, after it, was probably worth £20,000
in some intervening years, and if the State
says nothing about that it is treating the
owner liberally. And the land-tax that the
State has been diddled out of should be
similarly recovered—with compound in-
terest and a heavy fine for making false re-
turns. But these are complicated methods,
and it is vastly better to take the municipal
valuation and stick to it.
* • * *
Whichever way the resumption value is
arrived at, the money should not be raised
by the usual process of floating a loan in
London. Borrowing in London means often
a heavy discount, always a heavy loss in
stamp duty, expenses, exchange on remit-
tance of interest, loss of income-tax on in-
terest, and other items. The State should
simply pay the resumed landlords by giving
them State securities at 3 or per cent.,
interest thereon payable in Sydney and no-
where else, and subject to income-tax as a
matter of course. And it should also be
enacted that separate accounts be kept of
the interest payable on this purchase money
and on all other sums expended in wharf-
building, reclamation, and similar improve-
ments, and of all revenue derived from
the property. And that the profit, when
there is one, shall not go into ordinary
revenue, but be applied in repayment of the
borrowed money, until it is all repaid and
the State has its wharves and water-frontages
absolutely free from debt.
* * * *
Ex-Premier Reid rose the other day to
say that he was against the proposed re-
sumption scheme because, in his experience,
the State was always swindled over such re-
sumptions. That was another way of saying
that Reid and his predecessors lacked the
brains and the honesty to save the State
from being swindled. Premier Lyne has
a chance to make a name for himself as
the first N.S.W. Premier who conducted a
big land-resumption scheme without allow-
ing the State to be- milked.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
One a.m. Verdicts.
Judge Gibson sentenced a man named Ensob to
death at Broken Hill lately—sentenced him at
something after 1 o’clock in the morning. The
case was called at 2 o’clock p.m.; it was 10 o’clock
when the weary, overwrought prisoner—he made
his first appearance in court in this case —had his
only chance to speak in his defence. Of course he
wandered, and blundered, and got himself tangled
in irrelevancies, and lost himself in trifles, and left
out things which the jury were waiting to hear
about. After that the Crown counsel, who had
been travelling three nights and days, said what
he could for the man, and then the Judge rapidly
got through his address. The jury, which had
been sitting nightly till 10 o’clock, was sent out at
midnight—and the Court waited for the twelve
to come back. At 1 o’clock they filed in
with a verdict of guilty, to which they added
a strong recommendation to mercy. But when
they were asked (at 1 o’clock in the morning) on
what grounds they based their recommendation,
the foreman had no answer ready ; so the Judge
told them it was no good. They wanted to go
out again to set their reasons in order ; but though
they were not actually refused, proceedings were
pushed on (it was nearing 2 o'clock), and
the prisoner was sentenced. It was made clear
then that his Honor did not appreciate the recom-
mendation ; brushing it aside, be told the man in
the dock that he (the J udge) could hold out no
hope whatever of mercy. And now the question
is whether the Judge or the jury is to prevail?
There is, unhappily, no provision in Australian
law by which a jury may find a prisoner guilty in
the first, or second, or third degree, as there
should be ; all that a jury can do when it does
not bebeve a prisoner deserves the severest
penalty is to recommend him to mercy, or, going
still further, to strongly recommend him. If
those recommendations are flouted, then juries
will be more than ever indisposed to convict in
cases where the offence is not of the very worst
sort. In this particular case the reasons for the
strong recommendation to mercy are obvious
enough; if it hadn’t been one o’clock in the
morning, and if the jury hadn’t known that Judge
and counsel and witnesses and the rest were wait-
ing out of bed for them, they would probably
have had a dozen reasons ready. .In fact, every
man could, no doubt, have given his own reasons
off-hand ; but no one was authorised to say what
were the jury’s official reasons. After it has
been decided (as in the circumstances it unques-
tionably ought to be) that this particular prisoner
shall not be hanged, those whose duty it is to see
that every accused person gets a fair trial will
have to ascertain what led to this indecent one
o’clock scramble, and especially if any official’s
personal convenience was being consulted. Mid-
night court proceedings in any case are most un-
desirable ; and where a life is at stake they are
hardly defensible under any conceivable circum-
stances. But it would be absolutely intolerable if
they were held simply to suit somebody’s—any-
body’s—private convenience ; and it is to be
hoped that the inquiry will, at any rate, set this
possibility aside.
Seddon’s Apologist.
Thk Canterbury Times (Maoriland), which con-
sistently supports Premier Skddon whether lie is
right or wrong, thus backs him in his eleventh-
hour interference over the Commonwealth Consti-
tution :
A Road Board, setting out to close a public road, is
compelled to invite residents and others to state any ob-
jections they may have to offer to the proposed action.
Similarly, any other public body that may contemplate
some action likely to cause inconvenience or injury to
private individuals affords those individuals an oppor-
tunity of objecting to the action, and in any case we
presume that the Supreme Court is open to any man who
may consider himself injured. But in the matter of
Federation, our Australian friends would deny us the
right to state our objections to the proposed constitution.
It is not as though Maoriland had attempted to inter-
fere with the domestic clauses of the Bill. This colony
must either remain out of the Commonwealth or
it must become a Federal province, and we are there-
fore bound to consider our interests, both as an
outside State and as a possible candidate for admission.
In either case our rights would he infringed under
the present constitution. We should have no power to
make a reciprocity treaty with any Federal State which
might be willing to enter into such an arrangement, and
there is grave reason to fear that such a treaty could not
be made by the Federal Parliament. Then in the matter
of judicial appeals, a case between a Melbourne firm and a
Maoriland firm would have to be settled, presumably,
in the Federal Courts, unless, indeed, the Federal Parlia-
ment granted the parties permission to appeal to the
Privy Council. Moreover, if Maoriland should seek to
enter the Federation she would have to submit to the
conditions laid down by the Federal Parliament, and
should any dispute arise as to the interpretation of the
clauses of the constitution which provide for the admis-
sion of new States, the matter would have to be settled
by the Federal Courts.
If that is the best explanation Digger Dick’s own
party-organ can give of his action, it is a remark-
ably poor one. The complaint that Maoriland
would have no power under the Bill to make com-
mercial treaties with any separate State of the
Commonwealth is absurd ; no Government allows
part of its country to make commercial treaties,
and thus establish a tariff of its own, apart from
that of the country at large. If Victoria tried to
make a separate commercial treaty with Dunedin,
and get Dunedin to make its own tariff arrange-
ments in the matter, fhis would probably become
apparent. The complaint that the Bill doesn’t
allow even the Federal Government to make com-
mercial treaties with Maoriland is equally absurd;
the Bill specifically empowers the Federal Parlia-
ment to deal with “the regulation of trade and
commerce with other countries,” and also with
“ external affairs and treaties.” If Maoriland
wants to enter the Federation, and feels it must
get there, it will, of course, have to do it “on the
conditions laid down by the Federal Parliament.'
It is equally true that, if the Federation feels it
must have Maoriland in the union, it must unite
with that province on the conditions laid
down by the Maoriland Parliament. The
present arrangement is that, at any future
time, Maoriland and Australia may unite if
terms can be arrived at agreeable to both
parties. If anything fairer than that can
be devised this paper doesn’t know what it is, and
Seddon doesn’t know either. The fact that the
Federal Government can’t be compelled to let
Maoriland join it unless it likes the terms is no
more horrible than the fact that the Maoriland
Government can’t be compelled to let Australia
join it unless it likes the terms. The spectacle of
a Dunedin firm suing a Melbourne firm, and being
compelled to accept the decision of the Australian
Court of Appeal at, say, Bombala, is not one whit
more tearful than that of a Melbourne firm suing
a Dunedin firm and being compelled to accept the
decision of Maoriland’s Court of Appeal in Lon-
don. As to the complaint that Australia wants
to deny Maoriland the right to object to Austra-
lia’s Constitution, Australia hasn’t the right to
object to Maoriland’s Constitution, and if it
had the unspeakable assurance to do so the
language of Digger Dick should be worth listen-
ing to. And even Seddon’s most abject apologist
never touches on the worst aspect of the case.
That is—that Seddon asked for none of these
alterations till the three Conventions were over,
and the Premiers’ conference was over, and until
the Bill was finished, and it had been accepted by
five Parliaments and passed by nine referendum
votes. And then he asked that all the work of
five years should be pulled to pieces to insert
something which he hadn’t the common courtesy
to propose before the Bill was finished, and instead
of first asking Australia to agree to certain things
he proposed that the British Government should
compel it to do so. It was for this reason
that The Bulletin said Richard Seddon had
exhibited the manners of a person who ought to
dine by himself in the scullery—and even his own
warmest supporter doesn’t attempt to show, on
this point, that he is a person who would look
well dining anywhere else. In fact, considering
the utterly selfish lack of consideration which he
showed for everybody save himself, this paper
isn’t sure that he wouldn’t look best of all dining
on the floor.


An Open Door.
“Rate-pater ” writes to The Bulletin :—
In the history of Sydney Municipal Council there are a
few pages which reflect in anything but a creditable
manner on the acumen or honesty of the various Aider-
men and Mayors. Among these pages are those upon
which are written the particulars of the Town Hall
Foundations, the Iron Railings, the Coonanbarra Affair,
and the big defalcations of several of the Council’s em-
ployes. The result of all these “affairs” may be con-
densed into that one very expressive American
idiom—“ Boodle.” Boodle, according to a standard
slang dictionary, means plunder, booty, perquisites,
profit ; and Sydney, a city where there exists
no recognised or discoverable Tammany Ring, has
indeed an exceedingly dishonorable record in the
wav' of Boodling. Experience teacheth. Does it ? W ith
the example of that sapient Council before us, one is justi-
fied in doubting the maxim, or else in rating Sydney’s aider-
men and Mayor as people on whom experience is wasted.
They have delegated the duties, to perform which they
are elected, to contractors in the past, and they have been
bled. Now they are going to do some more delegating.
The chief excuse for their existence is the sanitary regula-
tion of the city ; and this prime function they l are going
to hand over to—well, a syndicate. This contract is not
like a railway or Town Hall job which is practically done
once for all. It extends over a term of years. The
case stands thus: The Council proposes to
hand over the garbage and filth-collecting of the
city to a company for ten years, and to pay the said co.
somewhere about £30,000 a year to do what they, as
aldermen, are elected to do themselves. What a beautiful
open door ! Study the history of contracts in N.S.W.,
and recall all the extras claimed and paid, the allegations
of corruption, the several inquiries made, and the revela-
tions thereat. In the past, several Australian cities have
tried the experiment of letting out the city cleaning by
contract. It was a failure every time. Most times it was
a shameful and dirty and utterly disreputable failure.
Consider the danger a company with £30,000 a year, plus
extras (there are always extras), for ten years is to the
city of Sydney. What hope has a reform alderman
opposed to such a concern of fighting it in a city where a
man has no chance of election under £200? And how
many men of straw could such a company (I am not
alleging anything against this special company) find, and
back, and get elected, to go in and vote it more extras,
higher rates, or an extension of its lease or contract? The
whole business looks like a Tammany germ imported
direct from New York. And as prevention is better than
cure, this delegation by the council of its powers to a
non-elected authority should be squashed at once.
♦
Fixing 1 the Responsibility.
Victoiua’s lamentable authorities are patiently
inquiring into the reasons why the Glenefg carried
her rusted bones down into the great deep. The
results, so far as they have gone, would be more
interesting if they were less monotonous. In nine
such cases out of ten the explanation is that the
vessel was old. moth-eaten and rusted, and that
the mildew of years was in her very bones ; that
the marine authorities whose duty it is to find out
such vessels and compel their adequate repair
didn’t do their duty, that nobody expected them
to do it, and that nothing ever happened to them
for not doing it. Also, that the owners wouldn’t
adequately repair their vessels unless compelled to
do so, raid that no one ever expected the owners to
be otherwise, and that nothing ever yet happened
to any owner in this country for not being other-
wise. The general tone of the evidence against the
Glenelg is that she was old, and her plates were
worn thin, and that a man could knock a ham-
mer through quite a lot of them. It is not alleged
that she was distinctly cracked or split or leaky
anywhere, but that she had the flavor of old age
spread all over. This story has been told very
often in such cases. There are certain officials
who are supposed to make disparaging remarks
about such vessels, and even to prevent them
going to sea, but they are never prosecuted for
manslaughter, or made to pay damages, or fined,
or so much as sacked, for not doing it. No one
expects that they will be. No one seriously
demands that they shall be. No Government
passes any law to make them criminally or civilly
responsible for their neglect, or docks their
salary, or does anything to them. It would do so if
Parliament demanded it very badly, but Parlia-
ment doesn’t. Parliament would if the people
were in dead earnest about the matter, but the
people aren’t. No law is ever passed making
shipowners criminally responsible for the
lives lost through their neglect. They are
civilly responsible, of course, but the famous
Alert case shows how much that amounts
to. In that instance the widow of a drowned
man was awarded damages, but an infamous legal
system allowed the owners to appeal for one new
trial after another, and a judiciary which calls for
the highest disrespect gave them new trials till
the case spread out into a good number of years,
and the verdict was mostly, if not wholly, swal-
lowed up in costs. Most of the people concerned
are not legally responsible, and there is no net
cash to be got out of those who are responsible if
they choose to take advantage of the law’s delays.
The Alert case might have suggested a need for
limiting the number of new trials a rich litigant
could get, but it was nobody’s business in parti-
cular. As to the moral liability, it appears that
the owner isn’t seriously accountable because an
inspector passed his vessel as seaworthy. The
inspector isn’t fully accountable because he had so
much to do that he couldn’t make a proper exami-
nation if he wanted to—he says he wanted to.
And the people above him don’t remember ever
hearing that there weren’t enough inspectors for
efficient inspection. And nobody ever heard that
there was no money to pay any more inspectors.
Responsibility vanishes in a haze, and if it ever
brings up short against anybody that person is
either dead or he is the Government. And each
member of the Government asks, quite reason-
ably, if anybody expects a man to be a heaven-
bom statesman, financier, administrator, boss of
half-a-dozen departments, a person who can draft
Bills, run a Parliament, be a guide and friend and
father to over 1,000,000 people, know all about
almost every thing—for less than the salary of the
manager of a small insurance office. And no one
knows why he doesn’t get more salary. But de-
. cayed steamers go down all the same.
+
What Britain’s 250,000 are Fighting.
The subjoined interesting item appears in the
ultra-Jingo London Daily Mail, from the pen of
its war-correspondent, the eminent Julian Ralph,
who has been interviewing Cecil Rhodes. Surely
Australian Jingodom will accept Cecil Rhodes
as an authority !—lie of all men should know what
he is talking about in such a matter :
Mr. Rhodes surprised me very much by saying that
there have only been SO,OOO Boers against us in the field.
I replied that the idea at military headquarters is that
there are 65,000 of them against us. “ 1 know,” he said,
“ that is their method of accounting for their reverses and
avoiding blame at home for their mistakes, but, neverthe-
less, there are but SO,OOO Boers in this war. Look over
the census reports in your Whitaker, and you will see
that it cannot be otherwise. Men cannot be made in a
minute. It takes 20 years to make a man, and ive know how
many they had at the beginning of the roar. The Trans-
vaal only polled a little over 17,000 votes at. the last. Presi-
dential election, and even the boys voted. That State has
put in 15,000 men, and the Free State not quite so many.
As for the foreigners in their army, do you know the
facts? You have heard the foreigners accounted for by
thousands, yet the Irish ‘ brigade ’ is but one hundred
strong, there are only 150 Scandinavians, and for the rest
— they amount to between 1000 and 2000. They appear
more numerous because they keep shifting their men
around. The people who were besieging us (at Kimberley)
used to go away and fight Methuen at Magersfontein. and
at the other places before that. No, we are exa ugtrading
their numbers simply because by doing so we account for
bad generalship without confessing it.’’
Clean Dictators and Dirty Dictators.
It is announced that theN.S.W. Government has
been considering the necessity for sweeping away
the worst of Sydney’s slums, and it is further
added that “in the absence of a body like the
London County Council, with the powers that
Greater Sydney might be entrusted with, Mr.
Lyne thinks that the Government should come
forward and energetically tackle the problem of
improving the colony’s metropolis.” Which is
another way of keeping a dog and yet barking
personally. Also it is a shiftless, improvident
way of getting out, or partly out, of a difficult
situation. The Government provided Sydney
with a municipal body (or rather 41 of them) to
keep its finances straight, and then it straightened
them itself a good many years ago by taking over
the city debt. It provided a City Council to
clean Sydney, and it is now cleaning Sydney
itself. It provided a Corporation and a City
Improvement Board to. abolish slum properties,
and now it proposes to abolish them itself. Pre-
mier Lyne admits that the reason why things are
as they are (exactly how they are being really too
horrible to mention) is the want of a body like
the London County Council—a body representing
and governing the whole metropolis and elected
on a wide suffrage. In that case, either the
Government must create such a body, make it an
institution which will rest on the widest possible
suffrage, give it such authority that the biggest
and most ambitious men in the community will
struggle for seats on it, give it abundant powers
of taxation, lay on it the responsibility of re-con-
structing Sydney, and give it a fair start by
devising some means of cheaply consolidating and
straightening out the tangled finances of the 41
municipalities. Or else it must do some repairs
and alterations itself, and then leave the old
dreadful institutions to let things drift into the
old dirt and confusion again. It takes a strong
man and a man of genius to completely re-organise
the self-governing powers of Sydney—to see what
is wrong, and to know how to put it right, and to
put it right even though 41 mayors and 41 town-
clerks and 402 aldermen ask to be left in the same
old comfortable hole. And it only takes a thrift-
less ordinary man to get architects and surveyors
to plan a few new streets by way of a small
new patch on the big old garment, and then bor-
row the money to patch with. Lyne proposes, in
short, to fall back on a dictatorship because
Government by the people has been a failure-
through the unspeakable badness of the system
which prevented Government by the people
having a fair chance. A city dictatorship as a
temporary expedient, until the municipal institu-
tions are radically reformed, is good enough. But
unless some radical reform is e lected the choice
lies between permanent dirt or permanent dicta-
torship. And even that choice may not be always
available. Lyne is a clean dictator, but then he
won’t last for ever. And a dirty dictator might
come after him.
The Scuttle of May Day.
In the story of the Passion nothing, perhaps, dis-
gusts the modern reader more than that peculiar
fallibility which impelled Peter to deny his Great
Master. The advance guard of the Vic. Reform
and Democratic movement is the Peter of the
present occasion. The May Day movement is the
local variety of the International Socialist and
Labor m ivement. The raison d’etre of the latter
was a conviction of some middle-century thinkers
that war must stop when the raw material—the
workers—refuse to fight. A Peace plank com-
bined with a protest against militarism in
all its forms is the golden thread unifying
the otherwise glaringly - diverse May Day
Resolutions in all lands. But the Vic-
torian May Day committee knows too much
for that, and by a majority of 8 to 5 has decided
to eliminate the Peace declaration and the protest
against militarism in all its forms from the 11100
platform. There were three women on the com-
mittee, and they all voted for blood and organised
rapine. The May Day movement in Vic. may
now be considered as an ornamental kerosene tin
tied to the tail of the Dingo of Jingoism. What
was a platitude in years of Peace would have been
a wonder working Logos, an impassioned Reality,
in a time of war; but the Vic. May Day movement,
with acrobatic agility, performed the Great Re-
fusal, and the paving foremen of Hell proceed
almost sadly to paste its shuddering floor with the
good-inteutioned red blushing handbills of a
score of previous Vic. May Day celebrations.
One thing this great swallowing feat should
bring about, that is, the respectability of
the long-vetoed May Day procession. A not-im-
possible feature of its future will be Mayor
M'Eacharn in his robes of office in the van, and
picturesquely-arranged groups of Lascar seamen
in the rear. As a sort of corollary to the above,
and as evidence that the scuttle from Principle is
not an isolated one in Victoria, it may be men-
tioned that the Eight Hours’ committee has
devised a pageant for its procession representing
all the countries in the world in which eight hours’
graft obtains, and that —the Transvaal is omitted
from the group. For cowardly obeisance to cant,
for an uncbivalrous insult to a brave enemy, and
for “ un- British ” ungenerousness to a true friend
of its working population, this is hard to beat.
Some Thoughts bout the Common
Colonial.
Advertisement discovered in London Musical
Times of Ist March, 1000
Sydney Cathedral.
The Chapter of the above Cathedral are about to make
a new appointment consequent upon the death of the
late organist.
Salary, .£3OO per annum.
Excellent possibilities for a good teaching connection.
Passage paid, subject to conditions.
Application should be made to Precentor. Novello &
Co., Ld., 1 Berners-street, W., not later than March 8.
Now the Chapter in question are (to use its own
verb) supposed to be a Christian institution which
wouldn’t on any account say what isn’t true, or
beguile a fellow-creature into accepting a billet at
£2OO by promising him other advantages which
don’t exist, and which everybody here knows
don’t exist. There are no “ excellent possibilities
for a good teaching connection ” in Sydney.
There are already between 200 and 300 recognised
musical teachers in Sydney (they can be found in
the directory), and this does not include the mul-
titude of schoolmasters and mistresses who teach
music along with other arts, and the countless
obscure girl and women teachers who work up a
small, cheap connection in order to make a little
pocket-money, and spend most of the latter in
boot-leather expenses, incurred while plodding
wearily from one obtuse pupil to another. The
music-teachers of Sydney probably run to 1000 or
1500, and this intense competition has made their
lives an awful experience of poverty and drudgery.
It isn t so many months ago that a Sydney
musician about the most brilliant, and certainly
the best-advertised of the lot—had occasion to
mention publicly that his pupils numbered exactly
enjht. 1 here is no hope of any new man
working up a good teaching connection in Syd-
ney, and it is a shameful and un-christian
act for any chapter, or verse, or paragraph, or
other institution to beguile any stranger here by
baseless assurances of the kind. It is still more
unchristian -in fact it is an outrage on every
Christian principle— to invite out another com-
petitor, to make the hard life of the Sydney
music-teacher still harder. In any case the pro-
ceeding is a foolish affront to the country which
keeps the Cathedral Chapter of Sydney in bread
and cheese and finds it its daily beer. There are
musicians in Sydney already with very high quali-
fications—far higher than those of any new man
wno is likely to travel 10,000 miles for less than
Li a week —and the resolve to pass them over—it
would seem for no other reason than that they
b-Jong to the country which finds the Cathedral
Chapter its bread and cheese and other necessaries
and refreshments —is one of the insults which this
patient land puts up with. Most of these leading
musicians are English by birth but “blasted
colonials ” by adoption. If they lived in England
they would be perfectly eligible, but the fact that
they have been contaminated by recent residence
in Australia puts them out of the running. The
new English organist, when he has been m Aus-
tralia a few years* will also be a blasted colonial.
And if lie then applies for any other such billet,
people like the Cathedral Chapter of Sydney will
be amazed at the assurance of a mere, common,
low-down Australian (he will be a common, low-
down Australian by that time) in even dreaming
that he could be fit to hold a post of importance
in Australia. It is a curious frame of mind—if it
can be called mind.
Canterbury Times (Christchurch, M.L.) in its
issue of 4th April, came out with a fine blasting
indictment of the wickedness of everybody and
everything Boer. A sample blast :
The taxes on food are nothing short of extraordinary.
For instance, the consumer has to pay on the grain he
imports, including wheat, maize, flour, and all meal, an
ad valorem duty of 71 percent., and an additional 7s. (Id.
per l )01b. weight. On bacon and ham the same ad-
valorem duty is imposed, and in addition 90s. per 1001 b.
in weight is exacted. On eggs, too, there is the same ad-
valorem duty, but in addition a special duty of Od. per
dozen is demanded. Of course, there is a corresponding
tax on all fodder for animals.
And yet here are the cold, hard facts which any
one can find in that unpoetical, impartial English
publication, the Statesman’s Year Book (the
figures are for 18!)(i, being apparently the latest
available for the Transvaal):
Imports. Duties levied, per cent.
Transvaal .. £14,083,130 £1,355,486 91
Maoriland .. 7,137,320 1,818,972 25J
The short explanation is: In the Transvaal
grain, butter, cheese, cattle, sheep, bacon, ham
and coffee come in free. The Transvaal—as
shown by the above English authority—levies
lower customs duties than any Australasian
province barring N.S.W. Its rates all round are
not much more than one-third those of Maoriland.
And a slavish press curses the 9$ percent, country
for its “extraordinary” duties, because it is a
“loyal” thing to tell any lie, however mean,
about the enemy while the war lasts. Yet the
paper which tells the above yarn supports Digger
Diet’s Government in levying 25$ per cent. On
the Canterbury Times’s own showing, what sort
of a monster of iniquity and extortion is Richard
the Digger !
❖
After some 300 unfortunate “contacts” have
been hurried off to quarantine at North Head, the
Sydney medical profession and other bodies are
petitioning the authorities to alter their definition,
if they have one, of a contact. This paper does
not set up as a medical authority, and does not
profess to decide whether the Board of Health is
right or wrong in saying that all persons brought
into close relation with a plague patient should be
quarantined. But it does boldly state that the
Board’s own methods of carrying out its own
orders appear to be quite inexplicable. Thus
when a man was stricken by plague in a Sussex-
street hotel, not only the other lodgers in the house
but the stray men drinking in the bar just off the
streets were dubbed as “ contacts ” and whisked
away as such. But many cases of plague are ad-
mitted into the metropolitan hospitals, where the
doctors on duty examine them, treat them for
some little time, perhaps, finally diagnose the
disease, telephone to the “authorities,” and go on
through the hospital wards to handle the hundreds
of sick under their immediate charge ; and if the
comparatively sturdy casual drinker at the hotel is
in danger of contagion, what about the enfeebled
Eatients in the hospital wards who are attended to
y doctors who have just left the bedside of a
plague case ?
4,
Ex-Premier George Reid says that the present
N.S.W. Government was very wrong indeed in
not calling Parliament together to say whether it
would or would not agree to Chamberlain’s pro-
posed alteration in the Federal Constitution.
Reid is the mean, grudging kind of Opposition
leader who always says that the man who in-
herited his billet is wrong. If Lyne had called
Parliament together for so foolish a purpose, the
curse of G. Reid would probably have been the
biggest objurgation that has come home to roost
these last ten years. Fancy Lyne putting the
case to Parliament :
You have been called together to decide whether you
will accept the British Government’s proposed amend-
ments in the Federal Constitution. If you say you won’t
accept them, and the British Government insists on not
passing the Bill without them, you will have wrecked the
people’s Bill without the people’s permission. If
you say you will accept them, then you have thrown
away, without the people’s permission, any chance there
might still have been of getting the Bill in its entirety—it
is no possible use for the N.S. W. delegate to try further
to bluff the British Government into abandoning its
amendment when the N.S.W. Parliament has openly
accepted it. If you don’t say anything then what the
devil are you here for? Also what the —ahem —same
person, am I here for ? The people gave a mandate to get
the whole Bill. The obvious course is to bluff as long as
possible for the whole Bill, and if I absolutely can’t get it
to tell the British Government to make its amendments
on its own responsibility, and let the people decide
whether they will take the mutilated Bill or not. Only
an ass would strengthen Chamberlain’s hands by getting
him Parliamentary approval, or on the other hand,
deprive the people of their right to decide whether they
may not prefer the mutilated Bill rather than none at all.
I am that ass.
And George Reid, clumsily spreading his net in
sight of the fowl, actually wanted the wary Lyne to
do that.
+ -
Horrible are the things told lately to a Bendigo
jury about a back-country community in the mis-
sionary-exporting province of Victoria, Australia.
A young man of 21 was charged with polluting a
baby-girl of six. The child’s mother, an unmar-
ried woman, lived in Melbourne; she first heard
of the matter through the papers, and seemed to
wonder what all the fuss was about. The prisoner
is her cousin. The child lived with the grand-
mother up country; at the trial she shielded
the prisoner. The grandfather was too near an
idiot to understand questions in the box. The
accused’s mother is in a lunatic-asylum. i ...
child’s aunt, who was lately kicked to death, left
a couple of children; they pigged in the same
locality. One of them, 13 years old, is alleged to
have regularly cohabited with his six-year-old
cousin, and the older members of the mixed
families are accused of indulging in horrible prac-
tices with the younger ones. Not one of them
had even a rudimentary education, either secular
or religious. Three-fourths of them regarded the
police as their natural enemies, and the courts as
places only established as means of revenge.
From first to last there wasn’t the smallest trace of
horror of the offences alleged. The jury, in con-
victing on the capital charge, recommended the
prisoner to mercy on the uncommon ground that
he had had an awful bringing up ; and Judge
Hood was obviously so deeply impressed with the
same t.iought that it is extremely unlikely the
death sentence will be carried into effect.
♦-
Sydney Health-Board President, Dr. Ashburton
Thompson :
It is idle to hope that mere cleansing of the city will
be instrumental in stamping out the disease. We must
not expect to be entirely free from the plague until we
are entirely free of plague-infected rats.”
On the day of this? utterance 134 were caught and
cremated m the city. But as each pair of rats
can produce 2500 descendants in a year, 12
pairs would, at above rate of catching, keep
the trapper supplied, and add 1100 to the
rat population annually. if Dr. Thompson
is right, therefore, Sydney may accept the
plague as a permanent institution. But alleged
plague-infeoted rats ha ve been found in Adelaide,
Melbourne and Brisbane; yet humans have
so far almost escaped. Why should rats
infect people in Sydney and not in Brisbane?
Also, how can Dr. Thompson know that all the
150 cases, more or less, have been infected by
rats? He has, by this time, facts enough at his
disposal on which to base a working-hypothesis,
and if the infection is really spread by rats, be
should be able to give a pretty good guess how.
Ho ought also to have an idea why the disease
should be caught only from rats, and not, as far
as anyone knows, from men.
♦
The subjoined extracts are from letters appearing
in Newcastle (N.S.W.) Morning Herald, of
April 23, and give ah idea how Boer-atrocitics are
manufactured. This is how Sergeant Wkarne, of
N.S.W. Mounted Rifles, describes the death of
Private Abrahams :
However, at Abraham’s Kraal, our wonderful luck,
which had been the cause of comment from the other
troops at every engagement, entirely forsook us. As the
fight was now simply a skirmish, we dismounted, leaving
the No. 3 in charge of our horses, and followed on, driving
the Boers back in great disorder, till they cleared off as
fast as they could gallop. We then returned to our own
horses, and found a knot of men gathered around a pros-
trate figure, that proved to he the body of Private Aura-
hams, of Bega. He had been shot whilst holding the
horses behind a kopje. The bullet—evidently being a
falling one—entered under his right shoulder, and must
have pierced his heart. He died almost instantly, and
without pain. He was a fine young fellow, and a good
soldier. That night we buried him near a kopje, a few
hundred yards from Abraham’s Kraal.
Captain Hilliard, late adjutant N.S.W. Fourth
Regiment, thus describes the same affair:
One of Captain Antill’s men was shot afterwards, while
passing a farm-house over which the white flag was flying.
His name was Abrahams (from Bega), and, strange to say,
the locality is known as Abraham’s Kraal.
— ^ —
Sydney’s Municipal Council met last week to con-
sider how best to re-organise the city’s sanitary
department. That is the department which was
responsible for there being 900 tons of filth in such
a very small area of the city that 270,000 tons of
filth seem a fair probable guess for the accumu-
lated foulness of the city as a whole. Sydney
wants its sanitary department completely re-orga-
nised, and evidently the Council knew that'its
method of re-organising anything couldn’t bear in-
spection, so it shut out the press and public, and
dealt with the question with closed doors. People
outside fancied at times that they heard objurga-
tion streaming through the keyhole, and shouts of
blast and blither pouring out through the crack
under the door, but perhaps it was mere imagina-
tion. When the door opened and the city
fathers came out like a torrent of wisdom
it was learned that they had decided to
ask the Government to appoint a city health
officer and pay him itself. That seems to be about
all. Recently Sydney’s too-eandid town clerk
remarked that the cleaned areas would be as dirty
as ever again in six months ; which was another
way of saying that the City Council, having dis-
gracefully failed to do its duty in the way of
cleansing in the past, was going to fail just as dis-
gracefully in the future. Probably that prophetic
town clerk told the whole truth —the man who
prophesies dirt is generally a true prophet. It is
an easy thing to prophesy about—almost as easy
as sunrise or dinner-time.
♦
A. M. Simpson, of South Australia, ex-M.L.C.,
developed no very brilliant intelligence when he
wired to England that the people here couldn’t be
said to approve of the proposed Australian Court
of Appeal because they had had no opportunity to
vote on it separately—it was merely in the Com-
monwealth Bill, and they accepted the Bill as a
whole. Of course, they didn’t get a chance to
vote on the Appeal clause separately. But neither
did they get a chance to express separately their
approval or disapproval of the clauses about the
Federal Senate, or the House of Reps., or the
Governor-General, or the finances, railways, debts,
judiciary, the capital, the remedy for deadlocks,
the referendum, the franchise, or anything else.
Simpson’s logic, carried to its legitimate conclu-
sion,* proves that though the people approved of
the Bill, they may have disapproved most cor-
dially of every separate clause in it. Meanwhile
it is, presumably, because the people of S.A. cor-
dially disapprove of Simpson that he is out of
politics just now.
A Melbourne man writes to the papers in a
strain of bitter irony about tile-progressive charac-
ter of the local city fathers. He represents a new
light alleged to be much used in America, and he
offered, by way of experiment and advt., to put
up a lamp-post in any public place and under any
regulations the Council might impose, and in it to
burn a 1200-candle-light at his own expense. The
Council rejected the gratis illumination with
scorn. Still he can’t complain so very much. A
good while ago a Sydney man got permission to
put down, at his own cost, a small sample of a
new street paving, on condition he left a cash
deposit as a guarantee that the new idea would
not fail so badly as to put the Council to the cost
of renewal within a certain period. He put down
both the paving and the deposit, but though the
former has lasted far beyond the specified period
he hasn’t managed to recover the latter. So the
Melbourne man might have done worse. He
might have lost his lamp-post and been fined fo>*
obstructing the street with it.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Queen Elizabeth."
Royal “ The Liars.”
Lyceum “ A Soldier and a Man.”
Palace “Uncle Tom’s Cabin."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Criterion “Robbery Under Arms.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ What Happened to Jones."
Theatre Royal “The Ladder of Life."
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra “ Hands Across the Sea.”
St. George’s Hall The Flying Jordans.
The story of “ Elizabeth, Queen of Eng-
land,” as embodied in the drama of that name at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, can be put practically in
a sentence. She was in a dreadful rage for 44
years, and then died. All through five acts there
are hardly two consecutive minutes when the red-
headed Queen doesn’t blaze up in fury about some-
thing, or anything, or everything, or nothing, or
things in general. “Elizabeth,” taking it all
round, is stately and impressive and gorgeous, and
a trifle heavy. It is the story of a woman who
lived and raged alone all her life, with pride and
vanity and anger and all a red-headed woman’s
emotions gnawing at her heart; and who gradually
beheaded all her friends, and repented of it after-
wards, and swore she didn’t do it, and grew more
and more lonely save when her friends’ heads
came to her in her dreams, and who painted her-
self with a shaking hand in her tremulous old age,
and tried to mash her terrified courtiers with the
unsteady wink of paralysis in her last moments.
And then, after getting out of bed on the
wrong side all her life, she died in a bad
temper on the floor. She was not great in any
sense except in her courage, but she was large and
violent, and many great men lived in her reign,
and she encouraged them to go and wallop the
enemy at their own expense, and took a large per-
centage of the plunder. When there wasn’t any
plunder she said things. In particular she is sup-
posed to have been worse than unpublishable in
her language to poor, brave old Frobisher, when
he fancied he found a gold-field in the Polar
regions, and came back with a ship-load of broken
rocks which went nothing at all to the ton. Fro-
bisher was almost the first wild-cattist in English
history, and Elizabeth, as sole preference share-
holder, was grossly insulting at the meeting when
the noble old hero went into liquidation and
wound up. And, in addition to all this, Eliza-
beth drank much beer, and was only moder-
ately clean in her habits, and is reputed to
have personally spanked her maids with a firm
hand, and a long arm, and a hard heart, and the
terrible vim of a red-headed woman.
* * * *
The writer of “ Elizabeth,” though he has
glorified his heroine a good deal, represents her in
some respects very much as she was—a hard and
eminently uncertain fury, with a tendency towards
purposeless lying and shuffling and double-dealing.
Miss Nance O’Neil probably wears the English
crown a good deal more gracefully than Elizabeth
herself ever did. Her tall figure is the sort of
one that queens ought to have, and her splendid
voice is just the sort of one to behead people with.
It is a long, heavy, exhausting part, but Miss
O’Neil rages through it powerfully to the end ;
and in her occasional moments of tenderness her
Elizabeth is almost lovable. The weakest point
in a very strong version of the lady who was angry
for 44 years is in the last act—Miss O’Neil’s
perishing volcano isn’t old enough. The battered
wreck of 70 years, dying in a badly-painted con-
dition on the floor, wasn’t at all like Miss
O’Neil’s old woman—though the latter looks
much the more attractive of the two.
Kingston’s Essex is a very fine and pic-
turesque piece of work, and very true to the
dramatist’s idea. The weak, angry, unsuccessful
soldier who, at the age of 34, was still mashing a
queen of t>B, and who tried to raise an insurrection
because he was deprived of his monopoly of the
wine trade, and who called the dead-l>eats and
Domain-loafers and Yarra-bankers of London to
his standard, and then bolted home and barricaded
his door with the furniture, wasn’t at all like
Kingston’s earl, but that isn’t Kingston’s fault.
A.nd Plimmer’s James VI. looks every inch a
king, which the fat, peaceful man of nearly 40 who
succeeded Elizabeth never contrived to do.
Various other people do good service in parts of
more or less importance, and the drama is staged
with muc-h magnificence of building and apparel.
The Throne Room in Act 111. is itself wortn the
price of admission, and is cordially recommended
as one of the finest pieces of stage architecture on
record.
* * at *
“Robbery Under Arms,” which has been
revived so often that, in the ordinary course of
things, it should now be quite dead, is doing
so well under Dampier’s management at Sydney
Cri. that the date of its decease is still uncertain.
In view of future possibilities, however, that
hackneyed but reliable grief, “ East Lynne,” is in
preparation, and some Shakespearian productions
are also in view. The first Shakespearian drama
is being decided by vote of the audience, and by
last reports “Merchant of Venice” was ahead,
with “ Hamlet ” a close second. As a matter of
fact, these and “Henry V.” are the only Shake-
spearian pieces which many playgoers remember,
and they vote for them mechanically. If the
writer was a multi-millionaire he would pay for
admission for <>ooo citizens and eitizenesses who
would all vote for “ Coriolanus ” or “Titus
Andronicus,” and thereby infuse a little novelty
into the proceedings.
* #
Jones’s pretty comedy was still at the
wicket at Sydney Royal when this issue went to
press, and was batting vigorously. There is
nothing special to add to the friendly remarks
which were made last week concerning the
“Manoeuvres of Jane.” The writer merely ex-
presses his undying conviction that Jane is a very
nice girl, and the invisible loafer who hugged her
in the public-house, while she was waiting for the
missing lover who ought to have turned up and
eloped with her, was a person to be envied. It is
to be feared, however, that he was too far gone in
liquor to know what a blessed privilege had fallen
to his lot. The audience doesn’t actually see Miss
Noble being hugged by this dissipated intruder.
The curtain simply rises and reveals the newly-
hugged Jane in a terrible state of mind in a
public-house, while the wild laughter of the person
who hugged her is heard from the adjacent bar.
** * #
The “ Irishman ” will last out this week at
Sydney Lyceum, and next Saturday there is to be
a big revival of “ A Soldier and a Man.” There-
fore J. P. West, who is behind with his “ rint,”
will sit on the thatched roof with a gun for two
more nights only, and defy the agent and his
minions.
** # *
The good old Curse of Slavery drama came
off at Sydney Palace last Saturday, when the Afri-
can brethren exemplified the curse by dancing and
singing about “ Pickin’ de Cotton,” instead of
going and doing it. Meanwhile the masters and
mistresses go about saying what a bitter, bitter
curse slavery is. Their state of mind seems
reasonable, as they probably have to hire common
white trash to do the work the coons only sing
about. Billy M‘Lain’s Uncle Tom makes a mis-
take in being- too rheumaticky-looking and
wretched and broken-backed from the begin-
ning, so that the desire of everyone to
buy Uncle Tom at fabulous prices is a great
mystery. Meanwhile the Female Impersona-
tor as Eliza Harris successfully negotiates
what looks like three large lumps of camphor in
an infected area, while the orchestra plays short,
excited bursts of music to indicate that this is
dangerous. Afterwards he becomes himself and
does better. The Human Frog disguises himself
as a man during the evening, but brightens up the
performance by being as frog-like as possible. For
the rest, little Eva dies with a flop, as usual, and is
kept out of bed in order to join the Angelic Con-
tingent which arrives for Uncle Tom at 11 p.m.,
or possibly ten minutes to. Why the black race
in stageland, anyway, should be especially favored
in the way of celestial escorts is a great mystery.
** * *
At the pretty theatre with the hideous
curtain—to wit, Sydney Tivoli—Rickards’ latest
infant performer, Roy Cushin, seems likely to
equal the phenomenal Baby Powers. He is
beginning to warm up to his work, shows a beau-
tiful lack of stage fright, and while he pipes his
Jingo melody gesticulates fiercely and naturally
what time he declaims, “We’ll show them what
we mean.” If expression goes for anything
“ them ” are in for a bad time. Alf. Lawton has
resurrected that hoary chestnut “Turn over the
Miss CAMILLE SEES, a promising Sydney
vocalist.
Photo., Grouzelle.
Leaf” for about the 25th time in the last six
months. If it wasn’t Alf. Lawton it was someone
else in the same company; besides which it has
been dragged several times recently from its grave
by other performers in other shows. Miss Stella
Ranger is a school-girly-looking Miss with a sweet
voice and her delicate touch on the mandolin
usually gets a well-earned encore, and whistler T.
Browne does good work and does it in a cheery
off-hand manner without “ frill.”
** * *
The Ladder of Life,” which came along
to Melb. Royal on Saturday night, is a drama
wherein a sprightly housemaid grabs hold of a
red-headed Scotchman’s kilt and professes to wipe
her eye with the tartan. This is probably the
most artistic bit of bye-play in the show—there-
fore, the present chronicler gives it first mention.
The housemaid, and the auburn MacDougall
aforesaid, go far towards earning kindly con-
sideration for “The Ladder,” and they get some
assistance from a depraved baby-farmer and three
Cockney acrobats, who have enlisted in the
Gordon Heelanders with a view to storming the
heights of Dargai on gymnastic principles. Also,
the three bogus Caledonians hang head downwards
from the roof of a “smithery” and rescue Miss
Duggan from an anvil what time an eccentric
steam-hammer is making arrangements to descend
violently on her head as soon as she is shifted.
The humor of the thrilling sensation-scene counts
for righteousness in a drama that has no solid pre-
tensions to ‘be taken seriously. There are two
villains, one hero, and an apoplectic father, like-
wise a “ true sweetheart ” and a deserted child in
“The Ladder”; but none of these items in the
jerry-built narrative look like actual facts at any
point of the trouble. The hero labors under delu-
sions re his true sweetheart, and the derelict child
and the two villains are all the evening occupied
■with absurdly elaborate schemes for killing
people they could easily slaughter at any
moment. One of the villains, at the
outset, appears to be a Nihilist disguised
as an Afridi chieftain, and for a while he talks
imposingly about his desire to wipe out the
British race, whereas the other villain only wants
to destroy his cousin ; but later on the man with
the large gory ambition degenerates into a mere
civilised person, and his conversation refers
mostly to the missing will and the lost papers.
Finally both the plotters cut all connection with
the Afridis, and come to satisfactory grief in Eng-
land- Also, Miss Duggan, who is a converted
Nihilist, dies of remorse, leaving her unlawful
offspring to the care of the other girl. Robert
Inman, H. Willard, Augustus Glover, Miss
Ada Guildford and Daisy Howard figure
on the gloomy side of the drama, and are
fully equal to their awful responsibilities.
Miss Duggan, too, is equal to everything
but a foreign accent. Sundry warlike spectacles
are somehow less effective than they might be,
considering that the show is' liberally staged, and
if “ The Ladder ” is to thrive it will owe whatever
success it gets to the low comedy element, includ-
ing the three acrobatic Silvenis. Bert Bailey, as
the red-haired Heelander, is a broad, but un-
aggressive humorist, and Miss Dora Mostyn,
whom Melbourne hadn’t seen for some years,
showed herself on Saturday to be as bright and
brisk as ever in the character of MacDougall’s
young woman. And she needs all her briskness
to ward off a suspicion that some o f the little
jokes are a trifle rough.
* * * *
Business at the Alexandra suggests that
the local appetite for melodrama is declining.
“ Hands Across the Sea,” in its present unhappy
domicile, doesn’t seem quite the same thing that
Charles Warner of yore played at the Royal for
12 weeks, yet it is a more deserving spec, than the
average Aleckian horror, and the vehement pro-
testations of Alfred Woods’s innocence ought to
got more crowded encouragement. “Hands
Across the Sea ” has a tale that hangs together,
anyhow. The principal characters travel from
Devonshire to Baris on reasonable business, or
pleasure, and there the leading young man gets
lured into baccarat, and cast into prison for
murder, after which he gets away to Australia on
the same boat with most of his friends and
enemies, and all ends happily at Circular Quay,
Sydney. The escaped prisoner aboard the British
vessel is a fair excuse for hoisting the Flag when a
French captain comes to demand his body for the
guillotine. The fact that the British captain is at
liberty to stick to his passenger under the circum-
stances without any particular reference to the
Flag is not worth considering.
* * * *
Regarded as a jingo demonstration the
Flag in this instance is all right. Alfred Woods,
Miss Maud Williamson, Miss Mortyne, and pretty
Miss Lyndahl appear to more or less advantage in
“Hands Across the Sea.” Miss Lyndahl, who
was a promising member of George Rignold’s co.
the last time she came to Melbourne, will be a
better actress when she doesn’t hurry herself.
Alf Boothman, on the other hand, would be all the
better if he talked faster and didn’t wear a pink
and white complexion, and E. G. Coughlan, as
Tom Bassett, is a shocking reminder that Elton
“ created ” the part in Melbourne. The distance
dividing Elton from Coughlan is more than 12,000
miles.
* * * Hi
Other Melbourne shows stand where they
did, and St. George’s Hall has reopened with a
now show, led by the Flying Jordans. At the
Princess’s there are full houses for “ What Hap-
pened to Jones.” A surfeit of war dramas, war
pictures, and patriotic concerts had set up a cheer-
ful demand for farcical comedy, and Jones was the
man who came at the critical moment to supply
the needful. Jones is the harmless, necessary
liver pill worth two guineas a box. Also, “ An
Empty Stocking,” the little bit of sentiment which
precedes Charles Arnold’s joke, is a timely reflec-
tion on The Absent-Minded Beggar, and the
double bill looks likely to continue for two or
three weeks to come. At the Bijou, the multi-
farious visage of Amann, the keen little voice of
Irene Fletcher, and that everlasting joy, the
marionette, who gets bashed by bricks and jam-
tins and still swears that the missiles never
touched him, are principal attractions. Also,
Charles Seel has charms for a section of the mul-
titude ; but Seel, although an undoubted artist
within his limits, is not an all-round success.
* * # *
Williamson has revived his opera co. in
Adelaide, “ Pinafore ” and “ The Pirates ” being
staged. The holy city is immensely proud at
being chosen for the initial performances, although,
as a matter of fact, it is but a preliminary canter,
Sydney being selected for the first new work. All
the same, Adelaide has a badly-swollen head, and
the W.C.T. U. is almost unpopular just now.
* * * *
Rickards is not able to quite carry out his
original idea of having ’freshments served at the
back of the circles in tue new Melbourne Opera
House. The “authorities” have decided not to
permit any more theatre lessees to run pubs, under
their own roofs, so the little difficulty at the duly-
licensed Opera House will be got over by placing a
small winter-garden between the auditorium and
the bars. The way to the whisky will be under
cover, of course, and the “ garden ” should prove a
poetic attraction for all who feel disposed to go
and see a man in the thirsty summer-time.
** * *
“Constance Clyde”: Re “Lady Dolly,”
now defunct in spite of the occult professor made
up as an emerald green grasshopper and the wig
of the Bohemian Duke—it looked like a retriever
puppy, and was barely covered by an up-to-date
mining-expert hat, which, in Bohemia, the nobility
apparently never take off even in the ball-room —
one is in grave doubts as to whether the repre-
sentation was meant to be a high-class concert or
an opera. As a rule, it was opera ; but occasion-
ally it slid into concert, as when the Duke
sang his passionate love-ditty to the audience,
ignoring the object of his affections, and the
gallant, gay lieutenant handed the heroine up the
stage and solemnly introduced her to the audience
whenever she had aught to sing. More doubts:
What finally became of the hypnotic villain when
he had shed his grasshopper coat and attired his
recreant limbs in a tweed garb which gave him the
appearance of a respectable retired burglar ? His
fate is a matter of hazy conjecture. Presumably
he fled to the nearest lunatic asylum, or the pond,
or the infected area.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
In Victoria the Deddick private-railway scheme
still keeps up a vigorous pretence of being real. The co.
makes proposals, and the Govt, seriously discusses them,
and neither party winks at the other to anv needless ex-
tent. Yet what is the Deddick Joke ? It Is understood
that the co. wants to make a line from a pleasant little
weather-beaten village on the shores of a shallow lake,
through a very moderately-fertile region where there is
about half an inhabitant to 2Jsq. miles, and ending at or
about a mountain, where a caretaker is supposed to be
looking after an alleged mine that has produced nothing
or thereabouts. Has Victoria run against a crowd of
unfathomable schemers, or has it merely struck some
amiable cranks with money ?
¥ * * *
The Bank of Adelaide sends out another pros-
perous-looking report for the year which closed on 26th
March, 1900. The record of this institution for the last
nine years has been as follows :
Profit. Dividend.
1892 .. £31,116 .. 7 per cent. = 128,000 .. £3,000
1893 .. 30,976 ..7 „ = 28,000 .. 3.000
1894 .. 30,763 ..7 „ = 28,000 .. 3,000
1895 .. 31,049 ..7 „ = 28,000 .. 3,000
1896 .. 31,226 ..7 „ = 28,000 .. 3,000
1897 .. 31,047 ..7 „ = 28,000 .. 3,000
1898 .. 33,401 ..7 „ = 28,000 .. 5,000
1899 .. 33,026 .. 7 „ = 28,000 .. 5,000
1900 .. 38,413 ..8 „ = 32,000 .. 5,000
£291,017 £256,000 £33,000
The Bank of Adelaide has thus made a good deal of pro-
gress in the past nine years, though whether it was advis-
able to pay away in dividends all the profits barring
£35,017 is rather doubtful. It is a margin, certainly, but
it isn’t a very large one. The fact that the profits have
suddenly increased by £5387, making them equivalent to
£6 16s. per cent, on the shareholders’ funds (capital
£400,000 and reserve £165,000) is certainly gratifying, but
the promptitude with which £4OOO of this has been dis-
tributed in extra dividend (or rather, bonus) to share-
holders isn’t nearly so gratifying.
Still, the Bank of Adelaide looks a very sound
little concern. It has £400,000 paid-up capital, and its
reserve fund is now raised to £170,000. During the year
there has been an all-round increase in business, especially
in deposits, which have risen from £1,934,557 to £2,185,435.
And the reserve of cash and liquid securities is remark-
ably large. Even leaving out the item “ Money at short
cali, £516,000,” which may or may not be absolutely
liquid according to the shortness of the call or (at a crisis)
the promptitude of the person called upon, absolutely
liquid securities are £761,817, or over 33 per cent, of all
liabilities to the public. Including the “ short call ” item,
they are equal to 66 per cent. The holding of State
securities alone (£337,340) is a very massive second line of
defence, or Boer entrenchment, for a small institution.
* • • *
On various occasions The Bulletin has sug-
gested that the National Bank of Australasia would have
to write off capital to provide for losses as yet unacknow-
ledged. It was the only paper which did so (it was also
the only one which foretold that the Commercial Bank of
Tasmania would require to make large provision for
losses). On 29th October, 1893, this paper said : “It is
difficult to form an opinion as to whether the small earn-
ings are only owing to the depression or whether the
National has still some depreciation to write off.” On
6th May, 1899, it wrote : “ The net earnings are only
equal to £1 4s. 4d. per cent, per annum on the share-
holders’ funds . . . which is so miserably small as to
strongly suggest . . . that there is need of a heavy writ-
ing down.” On 4th November, 1899, it said: “The
natural inference is that about £701,000 of the capital
wants to be written off as lost.” The National Bank now
proposes to write off £476,976 of capital, and £63,009 of
accumulated profits (£544,976 in all), which does some-
thing towards verifying these prophecies.
The Equitable Life Assurance Society
of the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position as at January 1, 1900.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets daring 1899
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1899
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1899
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT ML O •
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.; F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.IX
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
£58,373,185
4,546,248
12,711,975
793,123
219,670,088
14,012,322
I J ’•
f
si Ginir=g=^
‘Hisjiiiiiiiiji!! l
The
JENNINGS^ 1
CENTRIFUGAL PUMP
FOR
Tailings, Suction Dredging,
Alluvial Mining,
Irrigating, etc.
DEMONSTRATED
TO HOLD
FIRST PLACE
FOR
HIGH EFFICIENCY
AND
REMARKABLE ECONOMY.
Sole Manufacturers for New
South Wales :
The Clyde
Engineering Coy.
<«*> GRANVILLE!


The National Bank’s doings since the 1893 re
construction have been :
Profit. Dividend.
September, 1893 £25,303 Preference 5 per cent, j £l5i g 26
Ordinary, ~ )
March, 1594 .. 31,312 Preference 5 „ \ 30,910
Ordinary 4 „ J
September, 1894 25,231 Preference 5 „ \ 24,692
Ordinary 2
March, 1895 .. 15,126 Preference 5 „ 7,0+4
September, 1895 13,763 „ 5 ~ 7,64 t
March, 1896 .. 10,523 „ 5 „ 7,644*
September, 1896 11,706 „ 5 „ 7, 6444-
March, 1897 .. 14,712 „ 5 „ 7,6444
September, 1897 18,275 „ 5 „
March, 1898 .. 15,471 „ 5 „ 7,6444
September, 1898 17,602 „ 5 „ J, 6444-
March, 1899 .. 12,324 „ 5 „ 7,6444
September, 1899 19,246 „ 5 ~ 7,6444
March, 1900 .. 22,152 „ » » 7,0444
£252,746 £155,617
The present National Bank, Limited, when it took over
the business of the old National Bank which disappeared
in 1893, took over along with it £680,488 of thejfld Bank s
reserves. It has earned, as shown above, £252,746. It has
received £50,434 on account of forfeited shares, and it
now proposes to write off £476,976 of capital (being £u
per snare on the ordinary shares), which (along with
£68,000 of accumulated profits) is to go towards providing
for more losses. Therefore, what with earnings, old
reserves, and forfeited and written-off capital, the direc-
tors have had £1,460,644 to dispose of in seven years. It
has been disposed of thus :
Reconstruction expenses .. .. .. £14,360
Dividends .. 155,617
Reserve Fund 65,000
Used to provide for losses, 1893-’O5 .. 680,458
„ „ ~ 1900 .. 644,976
Balance on hand „ .. .. 10,203
£1,460,644
When the proposed arrangement is carried out
the paid-up capital will be £1,498,220, and the profits,
though the best since 1894, only represent £2 17s. per
cent per annum on the shareholders’ funds (the reduced
capital and reserve fund). Probably there will be a
further marked increase in profits next half-year, for all
the reconstructed deposits have now been cleared off, and
as the National Bank paid 4j per cent, on them to the last
they were a heavy load, but on present appearances it
certainly looks as if the amount written off was none too
large, if it is even quite large enough. At all events
there is nothing very brilliant actually in Bight for
the ordinary shareholders as yet. It would take
about £22,500 to pay them a dividend at even 2.j per
cent, per annum after paying the preference div. of
5 per cent., and the earnings haven’t quite reached that
yet. Still, there is a large improvement in deposits, note
circulation, cash reserves—in fact, in every department of
the business. And the prospects are vastly better than
they have been at any previous time since September,
1894—the date when the patient, ordinary shareholder
last heard of something to his advantage.
* * * *
The South Australian Brewing Co. (Adelaide)
issues its (12th) annual report for year ended 28th Feb.,
1900. The net profit, after writing £642 off leaseholds
and allowing £1441 for renewals of plant, &c., is £17,709.
This is equal to £7 Is. Bd. per cent, per annum on share-
holders’ funds (capital £250,000). A dividend of 5 per
cent, absorbs 12,500, and the other £5209, added to pre-
vious balance, leaves £16,115 at credit of profit and loss.
This is the only thing resembling a reserve that the S.A.'
Brewing Co. possesses. Until quite recently 7 percent,
dividends were paid, and this reckless policy of dividing
practically all the earnings prevented the concern making
much progress. The co. would be well-advised to
put £15,000 of its accumulations to a reserve forthwith.
It is burdened with a debt of £200,000 on debentures at 5
per cent., which is rather a lofty rate of interest, and with
a view to the extinction of this liability the dividends
should be rigidly kept down to the present level. When
bad times come, as they do occasionally, a big debenture
debt generally pulls the debtor company down, for the
interest goes on just the same in good times or bad. It
was on this point that the great Melbourne breweries
came to grief when bad days arrived and Victoria re-
trenched its beer.
* * » *
The bad luck of the Cascade Brewery Co.
(Hobart, Tasmania) :
June, 1892 .. £7913 10 per cent. = £7003
December, 1892 7154 8 ~ = 6602
June, 1893 .. 5169 6 „ - 4202
December, 1893 3076 5 ~ => 3501
June, 1894 .. 3882 5 „ = 3793
December, 1894 4134 5 ~ = 4219
June, 1895 .. 4327 5 ~ = 4219
December, 1895 3363 5 ~ = 4219
June, 1890 .. 4602 5 ~ = 4429
December, 1896 4444 5 ~ = 4429
June, 1897 .. 4429 5 ~ = 4429
December, 1897 4428 5 ~ = 4429
June, 1898 .. 4450 5 ~ =* 4429
December, 1898 3129 3 ~ = 2658
June, 1899 .. 2668 3 ~ = 2658
December, 1899 2374 3 „ = 2658
£69,542 £66,877
The co. has got £2665 further ahead in eight years, and it
has now a reserve fund of £15,590 and a profit balance of
£571. But the slump in profits and dividends is very
heavy, and during the last 01 years the co. hasn’t, on the
aggregate, earned its dividend, the shortage being over
£7OO.
* * * *
The Twentieth Century Mutual Tontine Invest-
ment Fund of Victoria is the latest thing in the way of
the cheerful and interesting tontine gamble. It is built
on the usual principles, which look about as safe as any-
one could ask for. Each member insures his life with
either the A.M.P. Society or Citizens’ Life Assurance Co.,
and transfers his policy to the trustees of the Fund.
When any member dies the Fund collects the amount of
the policy, repays to the heirs of the deceased all the
money he paid in premiums and 3 per cent, compound
interest thereon, and keeps the balance. Therefore the
defunct hasn’t lost anything. When the tontine period of 20
years expires, the trustees transfer back to each surviving
member his own policy, and divide among survivors, in
proportion to the amount of their premium payments, the
profits it made on the members who didn’t survive, and
the interest realised on these profits. The Equity Trustees,
Executors and Agency Co. holds the policies and the cash,
and is responsible. The chief danger seems to be that on a
long gamble (the division takes place in 20 years) so many
people may get tired and let their policies lapse that there
may not be enough left in at the finish to make it inter-
esting. Another minor danger is that the members may
not prove to be sufficiently diseased, and may not die fast
enough to provide very large profits for the survivors.
On the other hand, an epidemic might break out among
them, and the last man might become rich beyond the
dreams of avarice—to say nothing of the fact that he
might secretly murder a lot of his fellow-members, and
thus declare a big dividend for himself. A tontine is a
concern which makes one take an interest in another
man’s misfortunes, and leads him to call twice a day and
inquire if his sick fellow-member is feeling any worse.
• • * *
The anger of Darius Hunt. Some curious recol-
lections or uie past are awakened by the news that one
Darius Hunt, of Toowoomba, Queensland, is proceeding
for damages against P. H. Hart, M.L.C., poor, old,
broken-down ex-Premier Morehead, and A. B. Webster,
directors of the Queensland National Bank, on the
ground, as alleged, of “ fraudulently signing and issuing
false reports and balance-sheets of affairs of the Queens-
land National Bank ; and for misrepresentation of affairs
of the said bank ” —whereby Darius was induced to buy
shares. And when one considers the awful discrepancy
between some of the balance-sheets and some of the
things that came to light very soon afterwards, the plain-
tiff’s anger seems not wholly unreasonable.
• • * •
The Riverina Frozen Meat Co., a Melbourne
enterprise which started sheep-freezing in the Riverina
(N.S.W.) just when the drought was at its worst, reports
five years’ progress as follows :
Profit. How Disposed Of.
March, 1896 £2921 Written off plant, &c. £l5OO
„ 1897 2429 „ „ 1500
„ 1898 1897 „ „ 1500
„ 1899 196 „ „ 1500
„ 1900 2579 „ „ 1500
No dividends have been paid, so the company is £2522 to
the good. The paid-up capital is only £19,581, and as the
co. has borrowed £15,000 on debentures at 5 per cent,
and has a bank overdraft of £7515, it seems that two-
thirds of its net income goes in interest.
* * * *
At the recent examination into the bankruptcy
of a leading Sydney butchering concern, evidence was
given that a local usurer had for 3 years past been lending
money to the business at 6 per cent, per month —sixty
per cent per annum 1
* • • *
The Queensland sugar-yield for 1898 was 103,734
tons : the yield for 1899 was 123,289 tons—a decrease of
40,445 tons. Decrease of area crushed —2956 acres. Yield
per acre for last year, 1'65 tons the yield per acre for ’9B,
1‘99 tons. Average number of tons per acre for ’99, 14 'Bl
tons, against 13'72 tons for '98.. There was an increase in
cane area at Cairns, Port Douglas, Ingham, Mourilyan, Chil-
ders, and Bowen ; a decrease at Mackay, Bunduberg, Ayr,
and Ingham. In view of the evidently-decreasing fertility
of the fields, it is interesting to note that of 20,000 tons
of manure produced at Queensland bone-mills and meat-
works, nearly 10,000 tons were exported: 6177 tons of
guano also being sent abroad. 13 mills and one tramway
received advances under the Sugar Works Guarantee Act,
making a total of £541,204 expended by the State. A few
Q. planters have turned their attention to irrigation and
rotation, plus manuring, with notable results.
• • * *
Yet again has the public been given proof of
how soft it is for one to entrust a single individual with
one’s money and affairs instead of putting them into the
keeping of a responsible trustee co. The present deplor-
able lesson—for several trustful ladies of slender means
are concerned—involves an amount variously stated at
from £lO,OOO upwards.
• • • *
Bank stocks still ascend. Australasias are now
quoted at £7O, B.N.S.W. at £42 10s., Union at £37 10s.
Rumor has it that the B.N.S.W. dividend, to be
announced this month, will be increased by 1 per cent.
* * * *
A Wostralian co. has lately been the means of
giving bankers a steadier. A former sec. of the co. was
authorised to endorse cheques for the co. He did, and
one day after doing it also paid the cheque (it was for
nearly £600) into his own account. Judge Kennedy, in
the Queen’s Bench Division, said that it was in the
bankers’ favor that the secretary had been authorised to
endorse cheques; but seeing that the cheque had been
drawn in favor of the co., and that the bankers could
easily have ascertained whether anybody else had been
authorised to be credited with it, he thought that the
bank had not been reasonably cautious. So the mining
co. got a verdict against the bankers.
* * * •
Tv(X)-written copies of a most amazing confession
alleged to have been made and sworn to some years ago
by a well-known mining-man are again extensively in
circulation. The alleged confession in question was, it
would appear, actually printed long ago in an Australian
newspaper of some standing. The Bulletin has
recently received several copies of this alleged confession,
apparently sent from different quarters. The mining-man
in question can hardly be ignorant of the circulation of
this shocking indictment of his character, and he owes it,
not only to himself but to the lucrative and responsible
Sost he' now holds (and which he could never have obtained
ad there been a scintilla of truth in the allegations
against him) to make an example of those who are passing
round what are prima-facie a series of the most monstrous
and circumstantially-set-out libels ever aimed at any man
in a high position of trust.
* * * *
There is talk again at Broken Hill of re-organ-
ising the Miners’ Association —the formidable A.M.A. of
other days—oonfining membership to trained miners. At
present it consists largely, if not mainly, of those who are
not miners; many of them, with the most to say, are
not even mine workmen. The difficulty is to classify
mine workmen, because, though mining calls for skill,
there is unfortunately no apprentice system.
♦ * * *
The directors of the B.H. South have received
two offers for the Co. ’s blocks 5 and 6, supposed to be on
the main lode, and 87 and 88, which are on the eastern
flank. One syndicate offered 100,000 paid £1 shares in a
290,000 co., with £lO,OOO to go to the credit of the new
co. ; the other offered the same, but sprang the amount
of cash to £12,500. The directors will recommend the
shareholders to accept the latter. But even £12,500 is not
enough to start on such a big prospecting venture with.
Block 5 was formally held by a separate co., with a capital
of £50,000 ; it spent its money on thoroughly legitimate
prospecting, and then failed. It put down a shaft over
700 ft., and threw out long crosscuts at various levels,
especially at 500 ft. and 600 ft. There were “indica-
tions ” at a hundred points; and at that the develop-
ments stopped. From 240 ft. right down to almost the
bottom workings there were lode formations, one of
them nearly 15ft. wide ; but nowhere was a compact ore-
body met—just stringers of mundief and bands of calcite,
and nodules of galena, and sulphides much mixed with
refractory blende. Yet only one block—No. 6—lies be-
tween this and the South (block 7 and 8), where good
divs. are being made ; and next to that is the phenomenal
Central (Sulphide Corporation). What becomes of the
great lode north of the North and south of the South is as
yet unsettled, though over £200,000 has been frittered
away by nearly 80 different co’s. in trying to solve the
problem. The new co. will have to tackle the same old
riddle ; and though the position of its blocks is the very
best for the purpose, it ought to have more than £12,500
to face what may possibly De a very long and discouraging
search. A peculiarity is that the country and formation
about these blocks underlie east, while, generally, the
Broken Hill underlay is west; hence, no doubt, the de-
sire for blocks 87 and 88.
* « * *
The King Conrad silver mine, adjoining
Howell’s Bora Creek (N.S.W.), has been sold for £lO,OOO
cash and 50,000 fully paid £1 shares. Great accounts are
given of both these properties.
" * * * *
Something quite unusual has happened at
Broken Hill—a coroner’s jury has returned a verdict that
an accident would probably not have happened if the co.
had carried out some trifling alterations to the winding-
engine as suggested by the Govt, inspector. The inquiry
was the most searching which has followed a Broken Hill
mining accident for many a day—partly on account of
recently-printed remarks on the rushing of such in-
quests ; partly on account of the victim being a member
of the Miners’ Association, thus leaving somebody able to
press for a full inquiry and interested in doing so. The
B.H. North is the company concerned.
• • * •
The good old Paddy Lackey mine, N.S.W.,
steadily worked for these 20 years, lately crushed 231 tons
dirt for 3330 z. gold—exclusive of cyanide yield. This is
the highest-grade bulk crushing the mine has yet turned
out. The Paddy L. is owned by a party of strong Salva-
tionists, who, a year or two back, had it under offer to
John Bull, cheap, but J.B. hadn’t the sense to close. He
could by now have got back all his money, and more, if
he had chosen to work.
*.» * *
Application has been granted for suspension of
all labor on the eight leases of the Brokers’ Joy, i.e. ; the
Lake George Mines. Apologies and excuses for failure
are now exhausted. Why don’t the directors say at once
that the ore is too poor to work and too hard to treat even
if it were not so poor? Parcels of scrip are still held in
strong hands, and though the show is comatose for the
present, pending results of the prospective cyanide ex-
periment, gambling will put shares up if history repeats
itself.
« • » *
The most productive N.S.W. gold-mine of to-
day is probably Neeld’s, at Wyalong ; but the gold is sold
at Melbourne, and little is heard about it. By the way,
it is stated that the Cobar Gold Mines Co. is now turning
out something like 2000 oz. monthly ; not counting the
20,000 tons of valuable slimes which it must have already
stacked.
• * * •
Peak Hill Proprietary (N.S.W.) 19th call of Is.
3d. has been announced. The six months have expired
within which time it was said, and supposed, the new
manager (late N.S.W. Govt. Metallurgist) would make co.
pay—said manager being paid himself only on condition
that he would make the mine payable within a reasonable
time ; reports from the mine state that the furnace is
working satisfactorily, and that the outlook is promising.
This co. is somewhat more popular than most of the
N.S.W. new ventures, and the tone of the scrip
market is good. By the way, should the Proprie-
tary be made into a big thing—it must be either a very
big thing or nothing at all—by the management, what a
lovely chestnut' they will pull out of the lire for the
Wythes and Mooney Co. next door, which seems to have
a continuation of the best of the Proprietary’s ore !
« • * *
Westralia begins to pile up its instances of boles
and shafts, abandoned in the champagne days, yielding a
lot more than tucker in the later days of long beers and
shandy. The Bobby Dazzler—good old name ! —at Laver-
ton was thrown up a couple of years ago ; but lately two
Eersons named McDougall and Buntine put in a shot,
roke into gold-stone, pegged the claim, put in another
shot, and then took out about 40oz. as the result of the
two charges. (
Happy Westralia if it can solve its sulphide
problem inside two years at most, while Broken Hill has
been struggling with its little load for four times that
long, and is still struggling ! Dr. Diehl’s bromo-cyanide
is loudly trumpeted ; but the tests so far have not been
independent enough to be quite convincing. As for the
Lake View’s adoption of the process, the new general
manager says that it would be injudicious to give cbsts at
present, because in the experiments they have varied so
much. Which also is not very convincing. And, any-
how, though that manager has adopted the process there
isn’t much in his management of either the B.H. South
or the Wentworth mines to inspire perfect confidence in
his judgment. The danger in connection with sulphide
processes is that many people are satisfied with a clean ex-
traction, overlooking the supreme importance of the cost
of extraction. On Broken Hill sulphides the imported
Dr. Schnabel experimented successfully, so far as extrac-
tion went, with over 30 different processes ; but he could
not find one that promised commercial success.
• * * *
During February, of 63,9190 z. gold won. at Kal-
goorlie only 54920 z. was from sulphides.
It is pretty certain that Chairman Landau, of
the Lake View Consols and others, was quite prepared to
cut wages as well as sack managers—one or the other,
sometimes both, is invariably done when the slump
comes. But the Mine Managers’ Association put its foot
down ; Landau had made the mistake of antagonising
that crowd. Still, reductions were tried where possible.
Callahan paid the drivers of the first motion winding-
engine 10s. a week above union rates. When he went the
10s! was knocked off, the men struck “ on their own,”
and others were put on. But when a new hand let a cage
drop to the 500 ft. level, pitching a miner into the cistern,
the management reckoned that it would be cheaper, after
all, to go back to the old scale.
• • • «
The Phillips River field, of which good reports
have been wired East, is marked on some maps as Ravens-
thorpe ; it is close alongside the Albany-Eucla telegraph-
line, and about 35 miles from Mary Ann Harbor. The
idea of Morgans, M.P., who has the thing in hand—it is,
from all accounts, wholly a reefing field—is to ship most
of the ore at this inlet to South Australian works.
* * * *
Southern Cross, where the Fraser’s group of
mines is, continues to look up. The custom cyanide
works make solid little profits ; Fraser’s is building a
cyanide plant of its own, which should be ready by the
beginning of June ; and the Fraser’s South is now adding
to its battery.
* « « *
The Ivanhoe’s trouble is that it doesn’t know
where to stack its tailings—and these days tailings don’t
spell mullock as they did. That was the beginning of
the rumor that the Ivanhoe and the Horseshoe (which
has plenty surface space) were going to amalgamate.
The Broken Hill mines were faced by just the same
trouble once ;but then, luckily for them, the co’s. working
the ground on either side got tired of prospecting for the
underlay or for casual spurs, and either abandoned the
leases or transferred them for a trifle.
* * * *
Ivanhoe’s gold-production to the end of March
was 6 tons 19cwt. avoirdupois. But the mine with the
6 tons 19cwt. still inside it is the better-off.
* * » *
An Adelaide syndicate, advised by Mr. Hedley,
formerly in J. A. Wallace’s service, has taken up several
dredging leases at Lake Austin, Murchison district. But
recent developments further East are acting as a steadier.
* * * •
Proof of an old Bulletin contention, that the
Govt, mining inspector is often more interested in show-
ing that the victim of a mining accident was himself to
blame than in getting at the facts, was furnished by a
recent Westralian case. A miner, working for the Pad-
dington Consols Co., was injured ; it was shown that the
fall of ground was due to shortage of timber. As soon as
the miner reached the hospital the Govt, inspector saw
him and asked him how the accident happened ; and the
man replied that it was his own fault. The doctor who
was present said, “ I have spoken several times to the
inspector about my evidence. He has asked me several
times to recall the statement Craven (the injured miner)
made in the hospital about the accident being his own
fault.” Said Judge Hensman in charging the jury: “I
think the gentleman (the inspector) would have been much
better employed in making an examination of the mines,
which it was his duty to do, than in leading the plaintiff
to make a statement of that kind.” The battered miner
got £5O0 —or, at least, a verdict for that amount.
It transpired in evidence in a Westralian court
the other day, in a case arising out of a mining accident,
that the Govt, mining inspector for that district—a most
important one—had no credentials as a mining expert,
but had served his time as a joiner and wood-turner.
The manager of the Hampden Copper Mines,
Cloncurry, reports having broken and stacked on the
mine, for the four weeks ended 6th April, 53 tons fit sts
ore, averaging 40 per cent, copper per ton ; 147 tons
seconds, averaging 13 per cent. ; and 23 tons thirds,
averaging 61 per cent.; gross copper value, £3175.
• • • *
I IThere has been much shuffling of cards and
folding of blankets on account of the fixing of the site of
Chillagoe township. The Govt, waited till the co. had
decided where to build its smelters ; then it bit out 1056
acres from Chillagoe run, and everybody who had backed
some other township proceeded to get a leg-in. But it’s
odds the first township won’t be the permanent centre.
Kalgoorlie, Broken Hill, the business part of Bendigo, and
heaps more were after-thoughts.
* • • *
Horn Island Scrip, which once saw 20s. or
thereahouts, now stands at less than half that. Mine
closed down for the present, to the great disappointment
of Melb. scrippers who hold most of the stock in this
well-boomed venture. The report of the Chairman of
Directors, who is going to the field, will be anxiously
awaited. Great things were predicted of this venture.
Uwiaf:
vflp
15
S j£ g FH Rf
ra p 5 m w
Ihe
ZETZ Spring
Ballukorie
/KM iyigo
Iffl-S-W*
'gopetfess Pebaem
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
HAYY AHD WAR OFFICE.
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
“THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
Cope Bros, & Co„ Ltd., Liverpool, Agents i M. Mtj & Co„ Sydney.
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucuu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• • * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
# * * *
Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, Mining Machinery
Merchants, 506 little Collins-street, Melbourne, report
that the Luhrig system of concentration is gradually es-
tablishing itself in the principal mills of Australia. The
latest Luhrig vanner has a large capacity, and owing to
important improvements the life of the belt, &c., is greatly
increased. Vanners and spare parts are stocked in Melb.
and prompt delivery is thus assured. A small testing
plant is available near Melbourne. Upon receipt of
necessary data, estimates for complete plants, including
batteries, rolls, trommels, jigs, classifiers, vanners, &c.,
will be proceeded with by competent engineers.*
* * * m
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Qijinink Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* • * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ’’brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfleld Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sortsof iron-work.*
* * * *
The Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South
Melbourne, have delivered the first set of electrically-
driven triple double-acting plunger pumps for the Junc-
tion Deep Leads. These pumps are a line sample of
colonial manufacturing skill. The total weight of the
pump is close on 100 tons. All the gear wheels, which are
Bft. diam. and 12in. face, have machine-cut teeth. The
Otis Co. had to design and build a special machine to cut
these wheels. Two other sets of these pumps have to be
built to go down the shafts on adjoining mines. They will
all be operated by a central power plant, now nearing
completion.*
* • • •
Scottish Crime, September, 1899 : “The enter-
prising Colonial Mutual Society has reached a position of
great progressive strength. In 1889 the position was
sound and strong, hut the situation has been relatively
mors than doubled in strength.*
• • • •
Gilfillan and McCreery have removed to more
commodious offices in the Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne. They have enlarged their mining laboratory
and ore-testing works and are prepared to test parcels of
ore to ascertain the most successful and economical
method of treatment.*
• * * •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
If the Woodlark G.M. Co. directors are “ en-
tirely satisfied ” with their manager’s last report they’re
easily pleased, but some of the scrippers are woefully dis-
appointed. Scrip on down-grade.
* * * *
The exemption swindle ! A small N.Q. gold
show, lately sold—machinery, battery and all—for £6OO,
applied for and secured an extension of freedom from
labor conditions, the reason assigned being vaguely and
laconically : the war. It is not stated whether President
Steyn is a shareholder and forgot, in the pressure of
other business, to pay up calls, or perhaps Gen. Cronje,
as chairman of directors, was unavoidably detained, and
a qiufrum thus unobtainable. Locally, the latter theory is
favored ; and the caretaker is collecting subscriptions to
cable to Her Majesty an appeal for the liberation of the
Lion of the Veldt.
• * * *
Judging from recent appointments of managers
for Chillagoe shows some people are developing the
notion that Tas. West Coast is a copper-field because Mt.
Lyell is located thereon. Writer has seen most of the
aileged copper shows in Tas. and thinks that many have
been so labelled out of pure sarcasm. Lyell district cer-
tainly contains copper shows, but the shows north of that
field are by no means Lyell.
• * * *
Mt. Bischoff (in 12,000 shares), counting its
latest div. of £10,500, has now distributed £1,563,000
amongst its scrippers. ,
Whitaker Wright, who is now taking a big
hand in New Caledonia, announced at the March meeting
of the Nickel Corporation in London his intention of con-
trolling firstly the nickel market of the Southern Hemis-
phere and then of the world.
SLIM ES!!
ONLY
Successful
Treatment
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co., London.
All particulars on application to
Hy. Markv/ald, 11
178 William Street. Mri. bourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Oem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Minin", Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
80-30 Druitt-st., Sydney.


Society
VERY OLD SOCIETY
"D.C.L."
[?]
N.S.W. Minister of Mines, W. H. Wood,
who has jumped in one day from lieutenant to
lieutenant-colonel, easily beats Jawbone Neild in
the matter of a rapid ascent of the military ladder
of fame. The calm disregard of the intervening
ranics of captain, major, &c\, exhibited in the case
of Air. Wood, is absolutely sublime. But if an
Australian Premier is not above the red-tape of a
military office, who is? Lyne, jun., the Premier’s
heir-apparent, has just been appointed to a lieu-
tenancy in the newly-formed Lancer squadron
(out of, it is said, several scores of applicants), and
the Lancer’s commandant, Colonel Burns, will no
doubt wake up some morning to find several field-
marshals in his regiment. Still, if the ungodly
sneer at the Lyne crowd for annexing these gaudy
military billets, it should be noted that there is no
money-grubbing in it. By the time Colonel Wood
and Lieutenant Lyne are fixed up to kill in their
new uniforms, &c., it will probably cost them £lOO
apiece.
FI NANCE.
FATHER O'LLABA : “ What’s the trouble between
you an’ Murphy?”
PATRICK BRADLEY : “It was about a loan, yer
riverence. I lent Murphy 55., an’ I was that
mad with myself f’r doin’ it, knowin’ I'd niver
see the money back, that I spent 6s. 6d. in
dhrink, an’ teas fined ss. f’r Lein’ disorderly.
An’ when Murphy paid me back the ss. I icas
that glad to see it ag’in that I spent 7s. 6d. in
dhrink, an’ was fined is. for bein’ disorderly.
An’ whin Murphy asked me to lend him another
5s. I called him, a thafe, an’ said I'd lost more
than a pound by him already. Th in ice had a
foight an’ ss. dhropped out of me pocket whin
I was on the ground an’ Murphy jumpin’ on
me. An’ whin I got up I was fined 58. for bein’
disorderly. I’ve lost too much by Murphy.”
The Vie. military authorities have cer-
tainly done their best to disgust any aspirants for
war-glory. The Bushmen’s corps was sent under
canvas in the midst of the most drenching rains,
where it lived for days in its wet clothes, and
slept in wet blankets on the sodden ground in
dripping tents. The cooking, such as it was, had
to be done in the open air, and the scanty rations,
less than a mutton chop per man for a meal,
would have provoked mutiny amongst a far more
disciplined body of men. Even when leave of
absence was grudgingly allowed, the unhappy
bushmen had to pay the full fare, 4s. Gd. return to
Melbourne and the camp. And to add insult to
injury, the Melb. citizens are now benevolently
raising a fund to supply the men with tobacco on
their sea voyage—though tobacco is only a shilling
a pound on board ship. If S. Africa is a worse
country for soldiering than Victoria, may Heaven
have mercy on the Bushmen’s Corps !
* • * •
So far, South Australia has been the most
fortunate of all the provinces that have sent sol-
diers to the Transvaal. Three men of the first
Contingent are dead, two by bullets and one by
typhoid, but no others have been injured, and one
man of the second Contingent has died of pneu-
monia. The Bushmen’s Corps is intact, but one
of the Imperial Corps, which has on by just left the
province, died while in camp at Adelaide. That
makes three fatalities by illness and only two by
war.
« » » *
“Jack” : While the departing Bushies
were proceshing through Sydney, the other day,
many of the horses fell owing to the slippery state
of the blocks; and near the Sydney Arcade one
man came down pretty hard and rolled under the
horses of his “ next-four.” As he jumped up and
made for his moke, a fair thing in spectacles sud-
denly grabbed him round the neck, pinned a
badge to his coat, and kissed him a hard one on
the cheek I was two floors up, yet the “smack”
sounded like a box in the ear.
* * * *
More war items ! An old lady of a N.S. W.
country town was peacefully dozing in her chair
t’other day when an army of schoolboys rushed
in, seized her, chair and all, and finally deposited
her on the other side of the road. " On inter-
rogation she discovered that they were the
British army, while she represented the inhabi-
tants of Ladysmith who had been relieved. They
also declared their intention of thus relieving her
every day till similar news came of some other
place in Africa, when they would forthwith pro-
ceed to Mrs. Jones’s over the way and relieve her.
The old lady ungratefully complained to the
schoolmaster, who forthwith caned the British
army; but as these latter continued their daily
onset she wisely drew up a treaty, wherein she
consented to be relieved every day at half-past
three if the army, in pursuing the enemy, would
cease to smasli windows, but confine their shelling
operations to the hen-house, having first escorted
the inhabitants thereof to some less vulnerable
kopje. So far the nations have not had to inter-
fere.
• * * •
Transvaal and Orange Free State used
postage-stamps are, in anticipation of the early
demise of the Republics, being rapidly snapped up
by those cranks who regard stamps with more
affection than they do their wives.
* * * *
The report that Justice Dash wood in the
middle of a murder-trial at Port Darwin, hearing
of Lord Roberts’ first victory over the Boers, pro-
posed that the court should sing “Ruleßritannia ”
is not, although bizarre to the extreme, wholly
without a precedent. In Ireland, in 1843, O’Con-
nell, passing along a Dublin road, encountered a
funeral procession. The corpse was being carried
on the shoulders of four men in the front, and
weeping and lamentation, as was the custom,
engaged the crowd that followed. But the sight
of O’Connell changed the scene. The coffin was
deposited on the side of the road and all took off
hats, waved handkerchiefs, and gave three cheers
for the .great Dan. Then they picked up the
coffin, started to weep anew, and marched on.
* * *
Talk about the heroism of the battlefield—
—there is a greater that never gets a line in the
papers : the heroism of men and women who are
not living and moving in a state of exaltation !
Here is a sample. A man, a member of a very
respectable family standing high in a certaiii
straiglit-laced religious sect, had domestic troubles
and got right down in the gutter, winding up by
taking a colored woman as a paramour and finally,
in the madness of drink and jealousy, shooting
and killing this woman’s sister. The man had, in
fact, got down just about as low as he could ; and
yet, when he was put on his trial for murder, his
sister, instead of disowning him (indeed there was
nothing to connect them), put all the pride of her
excellent social position in her pocket, travelled
several thousand miles to be by his side, supported
him while he was in the dock, and, when sentence
of death was pronounced, promoted a petition to
save him from the gallows.
Publication of letters received from Briti di
prisoners at Pretoria is farcical, anyhow. One of
them has written to his brother (Constable Barnes
of Wentworth) stating that the men are “fairly
well treated ” ; but he couldn’t have said less than
that with any chance of getting the letter passed
by the Boer “censor.” The Jameson Raid
prisoners were not allowed to send unpleasant
news of their treatment, and for that matter they
had little to complain of “ except that their food
was on one occasion served to them in troughs.” It
was hash-day with the Boer commissariat dept.,
probably. The raiders passed most of their time
playing marbles for money, and their gambling
shocked the thrifty burghers who had them in
charge.
« * • *
One of Harrison Ainsworth’s stories con-
tains a dramatic plague incident. A beautiful
woman, a gambler’s wife, is won at cards. The
WHERE HE SCORES.
CANDID CRITIC: “ Well, it may be right;
but Fin hanged if I ever saw it like
that."
SATISFIED ARTIST: “Nobody did, sonny; and
if anybody wants to they've got to buy my
picture.”
gay Lothario calls on her at midnight to claim his
prize. The lady lifts her magnificent arm, and,
pointing to the swelling in the pit thereof, says
dramatically “Take me!” Exit discomfited
lover.
* * * *
Boiling with indignation, a good Brisbane
housewife recently hunted up the municipal
authorities, who have lately been conducting some
sort of a hygienic campaign, and complained that
a well-known city merchant, whose property
adjoined her own, kept his drains in so scandalous
a condition that a most evil odor continually arose
therefrom. A nuisance inspector was forthwith
dispatched to investigate. The odor was immedi-
ately (under the lady’s direction) detected and
located, and found to arise from a plentiful supply
of carbolic acid with which aforesaid drains had
been duly drenched. The gudewife had never
“smelt such a stink in her life,” she guilelessly
confessed.
* * * *
Brisbaneites are making heroic efforts to
dodge the plague. Over the river the local Council
hawks filthy garbage through the main streets and
dumps it down in the only public park, covered by
a film of earth that the first tropical shower will
wash off. The state of the others may be im-
agined when this place is seriously alluded to as
“the model Borough.”
FASHION NOTE.
TOOTSIE : “Hi! Billy, d’yer ’ear Jessie Wilkin’s
got ther boobonic?”
BILLY: “Gam, ’as she! This ’ere try in’ to be
fashionerble ’ill be the death of ’er!”
Some time ago Dr. Howard, of Melb.
Health Department, offered to go to India at his
own expense to study plague, but permission was
refused. All through the piece, such of the Aus-
tralian authorities as were approached in the
matter have behaved in a most uncivilised and
ignorant fashion with respect to plague contin-
gencies. It will not be soon forgotten by the
medical profession how the Victorian Government
sent its pet detective in hot haste to run down a
doctor who, in view of the world-spread of the
disease, had brought with him from abroad
bubonic bacilli to make serum ; and the authori-
ties, when they seized and burnt the doctor’s
tubes, were so proud of the feat they had per-
formed “ in the interests of public safety,” that
they actually cackled about it for weeks.
* * • *
Williamstown (Melb.) council pays for
dead rats lid. per head, and Footscray, on the
same line of railway, 2d. Result: twice a-week
a crowd of small boys take half-tickets from Wil-
liamstown to ’Scray and travel the five miles by
rail laden with bagfuls of defunct and possibly
bubonic-smitten rats, which they dump gaily into
the hat-rack or flop carelessly down on the newly-
upholstered seats. Yet, when the plague does
reach Melb., and possibly sweeps off half the
population, the other half will wonder how on
earth the thing got a start ! Where a city is
divided into a dozen municipalities, when it should
be only one, the 12 mayors and the twelve councils
can never agree about anything— not even the
price of rats. Union would save money in many
ways —even in rat-bonus.
* * * *
Recently offered for sale in public market,
of Melbourne, a cow which, when condemned and
seized by an inspector, was found to have her
udder a, mere mass of tubercle. Yet the milk
from this horror had probably been in use right
up to date. And the milk from one such cow
would contaminate with the seeds of tubercule
the milk from a hundred ora thousand ot'c.r cows
with which it might be mixed at a dairy farm or
milk-depot.
* * • *
A one-time Vic. M.P. was waylaid after a
sitting when a woman’s-rights’ discussion was on
by a gaunt and bespectacled enthusiast from the
gallery, who wished to argue him
out of several fallacious beliefs to
which he had given utterance in
his speech against the emancipation
of the sex. The bony politician in
skirts fastened on to the unhappy
man, and, walking beside him,
pointed out with great lingual
velocity that he was quite wrong
in assuming that woman would
have her delicate bloom wiped off
or lose her charm and modesty in
the rough-and-tumble of politics.
The member wriggled and squirmed
uneasily, and paced the corridor
with a worried look, too terrified
to venture out into the night with
his fierce companion. But the lady
was not shy. “If you are going
down the street,” she said, “ I will
walk with you and we can argue
this matter out.” That drove the
champion of a delicate and angelic
brand of womanhood from his last
trench. “Excuse me,” he said,
“but I really cannot accompany
you. Fact is, my wife may be wait-
ing on the steps, and I am afraid she might—er—
make a —er—disturbance if we walked out to-
gether.” As a matter of fact, the lady was waiting
on the steps. She had a habit of waiting on the
steps and in the shadows.
* * m *
The banana business in Melb. has been
ruined by recent press remarks concerning the
possibility of this fruit spreading the plague.
Good, sound, well-grown bananas are now being
vainly hawked around at “ Id. per dozen,”
whereas at 6d. per dozen in ordinary times the
niarket is rushed. The scare is in this way driv-
ing scores of one-time flourishing banana-hawkers
into the uncertain paths of bottle-gathering and
burglary. Apropos an American M.D. declares
that the banana of commerce is no longer fit for
human consumption ; it is a degenerate plant, to
be avoided by all but aboriginal races who have
THE BOER WOMAN.
If lie’s a worthy patriot
Who, for his country’s pride,
Bears arms, and shares the soldier’s lot
Upon the mountain’s side.
What's she who there with tearless eyes
Bears arms where cannons roar,
And, fighting for her country, dies
Amongst the men she bore ?
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
MERGERS, RATTERS, and GENERAL OUTFITTERS.
SOFT FRAME FELT.
7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
STRAW HATS.
2/9, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6.
AUSTRAL TROPICAL HELMETS— IO/6, 12/6.
m- IMPORTERS OF
HIGH-GRADE ENGLISH & AMERICAN
FELT HATS, NECK WEAR,
UMBRELLAS, etc., etc.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
PARIS HAT.
21/-, 22/6, 25/-
HARD FELT HAT.
8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
George & Barrack
Streets,
SYDNEY.
PROSPERITY
IS SURE
BY KEEPING
TO THE FORE!
Photography
PREVAILS AS
The Best
OF HOBBIES.
HARRINGTON’S
Federal - Commercial - Enterprise
5/- 12/6 21-
CAMERAS & OUTFITS.
MARK YOU | —The above prices include Plates, Chemicals, Mounts, and EVERYTHING to produce com-
pletely-linished Photographs.
And MARK YOU !—These Cameras may be used for Portraits, Groups, Landscapes, Snapshots, etc., etc.
ipr- Numerous Varieties and Crades of Kodaks, Hand Cameras and Stand Cameras, from 255. to £3O.
Address -
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Branches or Agencies in Every Colony.


not yet quite emerged from the arboreal and cave-
dwelling period of the. past, The • banana is an
endogen : it flowers and fruits under transplanta-
tion, but never seeds—except at the Andaman
Islands, in the Bay of Bengal, where it grows
wild. Elsewhere it has lost the power of seeding,
and has to be propagated by cuttings. Charles
Kingsley, in “At Last,” goes into the matter at
length, and, in his opinion, the banana of the
Andamans stands alone in the vegetable kingdom;
it is the sole vegetable survival of Tertiary times
when there was a continent all round the Equator,
and Lemuria —the home of the anthropoid apes—
covering what is now the greater part of the In-
dian, South Pacific, and Antarctic oceans stood
high above the sea-level. Three millions of years
ago, bananas, no doubt, were excellent food for the
immediate ancestor of primitive man—the “ Cata-
whine,” or missing-link, recently discovered in
Java. Nowadays the banana is played out; better
give it to the canary.
* * * *
Revived, as a matter for Sydney City
Council! —“If Dirt was trumps what hands
would have ! ”
* * • •
The other day a mild-eyed man who had
been waiting for the door of the Board of Health
offices to open, rushed in and grabbed the inocu-
lating medico. “Am I infectious ? ” he demanded,
shaking his fist savagely; “tell me—am I infec-
tious?” “Infectious from what?” asked the
doctor, with a surreptitious step towards the
poker. “From that blanky inoculation of yours,
of course,” shouted the man, dancing excitedly.
“ Inoculation —of course you’re not. It isn’t in-
fecting at all.” “ Thank God ! ” said the visitor
with a sigh of relief. “ But look here, I want you
to give me a letter to that effect to my wife. You
see,” he went on hurriedly, “ we’re not long mar-
ried, and she’s a bit nervous about the plague, you
know.”
• • * *
Ed. Bulletin.— Re this Sydney rat-scare.
Why does not Sydney’s Mayor import a shipment
of ferrets and turn them loose in the city ? The
rats would soon be wiped right out. I remember
aflour-millon N.S.W. South Coast being so infested
with rats that wheat couldn’t be stacked in it, and
all the cats could do was iike taking a man or two
out of China. At last the owner got a pair of
ferrets — and in three days there was not a live rat
in the building. The ferrets then tackled other
parts of the town, with the result that not a rat
has been seen in it since. A ferret can go any-
where that a rat can, so that there is no get-away.
The slayers themselves might become a nuisance,
but it would be after our time, as they breed but
once a year, and then only one at a time.—A.G.
The whole duty of woman, according to
recent Vic. critics of the woman-suffrage move-
ment, is to bear children and avoid politics. In
short, to bear and forbear.
In Victoria Barracks (Sydney) is a dissi-
pated ram much given to the consumption of
cigarette and cigar “bumpers.” To satisfy
his tobacco-craving, the audacious mutton
recently upended a gorgeous volunteer
officer, and annexed the cigar lie was
Mnoking. The outraged warrior has since
demanded the ram’s execution, but, as
the warrior could be much better spared
than the ram, the latter will probably
continue to flourish.
Adelaide Hospital trouble nearly settled
itself the other day. All the striking medicos
were about to resume their places; when Premier
Holder, against the wishes of the Hospital Board,
insisted upon appointing Poo-bail Ramsay Smith
(one of the original doctors imported) to the
lionorary staff. As the original strikers don’t
speak to the perky little doctor, matters remain as
before.
A certain town in Northern M.L. possesses
a unique combination of hearse and pleasure-
waggon. You can hire this in the morning for a
picnic (when it’s a dashing four-horse drag), and
in the afternoon you may see a funeral headed by
this identical vehicle disguised under a huge black
lid and with two of the same horses sedately crawl-
ing along. The owners of the combination have
been known, in a single day, to drive a circus-band
round the town, retire and wash the
elephant-and-tiger bills off, come
out again as an electioneering
car, gather up all the
voters, retire again and
lick the candidate’s
bills off, and emerge
again late in the
afternoon adorned
with white ribbon
and dash away a
wedding-party.
It also meets
the late train
every even-
ing, and is
advertised
as a ’bus.
“O. P.” : t'e
“ Von KoW.. • s-
sertion (B. 7/4/tu)
that prostitution
has nothing to do
with sweating,
present writer
knows more
than one
young
woman
who started
saying
“ Duckie! ”
to the night
air all on
account of low
screw and
general desperation.
For general proof observe
the steady increase of the genteel “Mona” and
“Enid” on the pave. Also the gaunt, “polarised”
variety of female, hawking about the corpse of a
sex smothered by hunger and toil and the lack of
anything approaching a legitimate mating oppor-
tunity. Poverty, fading looks, and a small crisis
will “fall” almost any woman with an impulse
about her. Anyhow, better pay for female work
would check street professionalism to some extent,
and lend a suspicion of sincerity to the breezy
midnight endearment. Even that would be some-
thing gained.
* • * *
Westralia being the last place of call for
the several contingents, some curious and pathetic
messages from the East overtook departing sol-
diers. One addressed to a member of the second
contingent read, “ For God’s sake come back and
make Martha an honest woman ! ” Poor Martha !
WILFUL PHILANTHROPY.
PEELER No. 30,036,589: “Phwat d’ye mane by
thryin ’ to open the window?”
BURGLAR BILL : “ O, please, Mister Policeman, I
wasn’t opening it, I was just SHUTTING it I
Sure, the poor gentleman inside would catch
his death of cold, sleepin’ in such a draught.”
“ S.” : I was witness to it on Albert Park
sands yesterday. Small boys paddling in the sea,
a furious mother charging down upon them, yell-
ing : “ Come out' of that, you brats ! Don’t yer
know better when there’s a case o’ Bubonic plague
in the Bay ? ”
* * * *
Apart from the engineers and the carpen-
ters, who hang well together in most places, the
best organised workers in Wes-
tralia are probably the gold-
fields’ tailoresses. There
are 60 members in the
Kalgoorlie society,
and hardly a con-
firmed n o 11-
unionist left
now to argue
with. The
women
t h e ni-
sei ves
have
done all
the or-
ganis-
ing.
BILLY'S CARELESSNESS.
OWNER (merrily): “You had the whip going all
the way down the straight, I noticed.”
BILLY (who rode a successful losing race): "My
word, I did! But once or twice I nearly ’it
the ’ORSE, instead of my boot.”
So far, there is but one good story told of
Sydney University undergraduate wit: “On one
occasion, two candidates, and two only, a lady and
a gentleman, were presented for the science degree.
With the robed Chancellor reciting his formula
before them, the suggestions were irresistibly
nuptial, but they were not generally perceived till,
when the official had concluded his scarcely-
audible remarks, a deep response, ‘I do,’ came
from the undergraduates’ benches.”
* * * *
F. S. Boyce, B.A , L.L.8., who stated the
case for the Sydney University undergrads at their
make-shift commemoration, was one of the lesser
lights who did yeoman service for Australia in the
struggle for the Commonwealth Bill (and for
which, by the way, lie, with others, got mighty
little thanks). He made a peculiar start in his
speech at Sydney Town Hall last Saturday. “ I
am not here, ladies and gentlemen ” (impressive
pause) ; “ Ladies and gentlemen, none of you are
here” —another pause, filled in by wild cheering
from the students, quick to take advantage even
of their champion. Then Mr. Boyce went on un-
disturbed to explain that no one was there to in-
sult the Senate. Which, under all the circum-
stances, was a very necessary explanation indeed.
* * * *
With the return of the Lamingtons, acting-
Governor Sam Griffith vacates his temporary
gubernatorial glories and makes ready for a re-
opening of the Q.N. Bank troubles, a Mr. Darius
Hunt, of Toowoomba, prosecuting the old directors
and auditor on a charge of their having induced
him to purchase shares by issuing a false balance-
sheet. Wows verrons /
* • * •
Lord Brassey, with a vain eye on the
Governor-Generalship, is determined to keep him-
self in evidence in Melbourne. He has written,
from the Seychelles, a gushing commendation of
the Vic. Railway Commissioner who, it appears,
is quite the primest thing in Railway Commis-
sioners that Uncle Tom has ever struck. Victoria
is rejoiced to hear, furthermore, that local porters
were never openly rude to Uncle ; and he was
rarely or never told to “go and hump his
blanky bundle himself.” It is a positive fact,
though, that the Brassey never fell off the Vic.
railway system, and that is something to be grate-
ful for.
» * • »
Judge Stephen, the other day, sentenced
the swagman, Busch, who brutally assaulted the
school-teacher at Wellesley (N.S.W.), to 14 years.
If the prisoner really did everything imputed to
him, and under the circumstances set forth, he
richly deserved his fate. But Busch was a friend-
less stranger, and undefended. His story was that
he had no “intent,” and only wanted at first to
look at the school maps. ‘ ‘ People always regarded
swagmen with suspicion; the lady may have
thought he intended to insult her, and when
she grabbed his gun he had to pull it away
from her.” It is just possible that the
truth lav somewhere between the two ver-
sions. But one thing is sure and certain :
It is a monstrous thing that where a penniless
man is put up to be tried for everything short of
his life ne should not have placed at his disposal
even the slenderest means of defence, despite the
money and trouble expended over his prosecution.
The Judge was quite right in declaring that no
woman should be sent by the school authorities to
such a lonely place as that at which Miss Huie
was stationed, and it is to be hoped the Education
authorities will profit by his Honor’s remarks-
* * * *
lb is about time some changes were made
in the Westralian magistracy. The Bulletin
hears of one highly-placed warden who first of all
kept a court at a big town waiting for an hour,
and then, on a messenger being sent to him at his
club, returned the curt reply that he was going to
take a day off, so the court could stand adjourned
for 24 hours.
• • • •
It has been decided that under Westralia’s
Early Closing Act an hotel is a shop and a barmaid
an assistant. A Perth lioenseo who had failed to
give his Hebe one afternoon off a week has there-
fore been fined 10s. witli costs.
• • • ••
The Niagara outrage has been a somewhat
amusing and various sensation as sot fortli by the
Australian press, In the heat of the moment it
was represented by the cable as another bit of
Boer treachery ; next morning it was the diaboli-
cal work of tne grain shovellers’ union; but on
the third day it had developed into a Fenian con-
spiracy, with power to add to its numbers, so to
speak. The Bulletin concludes that the outrage
was really the work of the Australian Federal
delegates, whose object was to avert general atten-
tion whilst they smuggled the Commonwealth
Bill past the British Government.
* * * *
Also that terrible calamity, the Ottawa
fire, was described by the cable as of “pro-Boer”
emanation. Next came the yarn that it was
started by “the Fenians ” as a mark of sympathy
with the Boers. Now it is admitted that the con-
flagration was accidental. Wanted, very badly, a
Pacific cable, run by people that take no stock in
the old-world hatreds that have been such a curse
to Australasia.
* * * *
The very latest idea in the way of Victorian
telephone reform has been struck by P.-M.-G.-
Watt. Hereafter, when the ’phone attendants
come on duty at 8.30 a.m., they are to ring up
every subscriber and ask him if his instrument is
working all right, and if he has any objections to
make. At that hour of the morning it would be a
great deal more to the point to ask him if he was up
and has got all his clothes on yet, and whether he
found the bath cold, and did he use Pear’s soap or
Sunlight ?
* * • *
One Beck was sentenced last week at
Armidale (N.S.W.) Circuit Court to six months
hard labor either for stealing or receiving, not for
both, and neither Judge nor jury could say for
which. Two persons were charged with stealing
or receiving £25; the jury acquitted one and
found the other (Beck) guilty in the words of the
indictment: Guilty of “stealing or receiving.”
“But which?” asked his Honor. Enquiry was
bootless. The jury had got there and wouldn’t go
another inch. “But I don’t know for which
crime to sentence.” However, his Honor slept on
it, and next day recorded six months’ hard,
leaving, apparently, the prisoner to take it out in
whichever capacity suited him.
* * * *
Mackennal’s fine statue of V.R. has duly
arrived at Ballarat. The unveiling is to be a joy
for Waxellency Madden on Queen’s birthday.
The Sydney Royal Show was a passing
good show in its way. though it might have been
better. Had the thermometer registered 180°
under a hat, or the mercury cracked the tube with
the quintescence of cold, then things would have
hummed. As it was, it was an ordinary kind of
show without special feature to impress it on the
tablets of the brain in contradistinction to the
hundreds of other similar exhibitions that have
been held ever since Fred Webster took the helm,
and before. Perhaps the public would rather not
have been frizzled up like hash-house bacon or frozen
down like refrigerated mutton, but had either of
these contingencies occurred they would have
found that shelter awaited them in the P. and B.
Ruberoid house. There they could have preserved
their equanimity while others outside suffered all
the pangs of extremes of heat or cold according as
the fates or inclement Wragge had decreed. It is
a strong point about this Ruberoid that it acts as a
kind of insulating material which, through its
being a bad conductor of heat, is equally impervious
to the most penetrating rays of an out-back sun
or the hoariest of hoar-frosts. A timber and gal-
vanised-iron crib is therefore not alongside it for
comfort. Nor does it nearly approach it for
artistic appearance. This, however, is a mere
detail that doesn’t count much where draughts
prevail. The whole Alpha and the Omega, and
the Beta and the Theta, of the matter lies in the
query—ls it cheaper ? When the local bank mana-
ger holds the whip that is what he will ask. When
the mother of six wants a new bonnet; that is what
she will ask. And the man that provides for
them all naturally asks the same question. The
reply is that by erecting a P. and B. Ruberoid
crib instead of one of the galvanised iron variety
you save stuff all the time; you save in the initial
cost; yon save in construction, eventually saving
your breath on oaths; so what more do you want ?
A member of the Bulletin staff, who hasn’t got a
profound craving for dossing in the open, is
thinking of petitioning the member for the
Domain to log-roll a few Ruberoid cribs into his
camping-ground. A water-frontage abreast of
Lady Macquarie’s Chair would be N.T.9.
A profane sawbones sends to The Bulle-
tin his “ Hymn of the Plague Bacillus ” :
Eternal Father, by Whose grace
O’er this wide world we hold full sway,
Incline Thine awful ear a space
As—ere we humbly kneel to pray —
Our Hymn of adoration soars
To where Thou reignest King Supreme ;
The childish treble of our spores
Commingling in the holy theme.
From buboes tense and tender, Lord !
From ulcers wide and widening fast
Our praise bursts forth with one accord—
O may Thy mercies ever last!
How great Thy fostering care sublime !
Thou madest Man for our delight—
The dark-skinned hordes of Eastern clime,
The succulent and juicy white —
O flesh so fair 1 O blood so sweet!
Their swollen throbbing glands attest
With each despairing labored beat
Thy love Divine made manifest 1
With Thee beneath our banners wide,
What shall our hellish foes attain ?
With impious test-tube—stain—glass-slide—
And all their prophylactics vain—
And “ culture-plates”—How they blaspheme,
Profane bacteriologists !
Thy righteous wrath shall surely gleam
On these accursbd scientists !
And when this world dissolves in flame
To light our passage to the skies,
Celestial journals shall proclaim—
The Plague arrived in Paradise :
There with a chastened, calm delight
We shall disport in glands Divine;
Nor antitoxins may affright,
Nor Haffkines murd’rous in design.
• * * *
Medical Science asserts
that
LIFEBUOY
ROYAL
DISINFECTANT
SOAP
will effectually destroy
the germs that produce
infectious diseases.
SoreTbroat
“You cannot do better than
gargle with ‘Condy’s Fluid.’ ”
Sir Morell Mackenzie. M.D.
(The Eminent Throat Specialist)
Gargle
with
Condy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL, London, England,
are the only Makers.
“Condy’s Fluid” can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitation.
FOR
A THROBBING, SWOLLEN,
Painful condition of STOMACH, and
Aching Intestinal Catarrh,
Or. Gregory’s Cough Mixture
Is an Excellent Sedative.
Instant Relief from One Dose. If not obtainable
locally, send Stamps 2/6.
55 Elgin Street, Carlton, Melbourne.
HATS. HATS. HAT s-
Mountcastle & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ ~ _ _ Sydney, May 1, 1900.
My Dear Mtee.—
The Sydney University undergrads have had
their commemoration after all. A wet-blanketed
side-show commemoration, very different from
their original idea, which was to hold a satirical
festival, borne of the songs intended to be sung,
and published ere students realised the strength
or the powers that be, show how satirical the
commem. might have been but for the Senatorial
Thou shalt not play the goat, the ass, the ape,
the ox or tin-whistle before Me ! ” All of a sudden
such verses as this (re “the Teaching Staff”) were
withdrawn from the programme—
There’s Micky who apparently has shrunken in the wash,
There s Jummy with a liver, and a tongue that’s often
rash,
And Pitt’s the proud possessor of an adamantine chlr,
And Trecky is a beggar who is hardly fit to live.
Chorus—Dons, profs, &c.
So it became a commemoration of Second Thoughts
and not of Original Impulses, and its flatness was
mfmitely more in keeping with the real temper of
the Australian undergraduate than the grotesquely-
artincial, pumped-up hilarity of previous celebra-
tions.
Our undergrad, is not naturally so recklessly
high-spirited and wantonly hilarious as his old-
world, and more especially his Continental, con-
temporaries. He is on the average an eminently
sane and sober-minded person, and some faint
suspicion of “the wit to madness near allied ”
the possession of a spark of genius—is surely the
only decent warrant for a well-grown youth
assuming in a street-procession a pair of perfectly-
superfluous donkey’s ears, or hauling a semi-
decomposed leg of mutton up at the end of a
string m the presence of an allegedly learned
assemblage.
There is little of the truly Bohemian in the
Australian ’Varsity student. Unlike so many of
his old-world prototypes, whose imagination he so
sadly lacks, he is eminently practical and law-
abiding, as witness his prompt right-about-face on
the present occasion when the authorities showed
their teeth. So far as up-to-date experience goes,
our students may be relied on never to write and
sing a song which will cause a revolution, or
murder anybody in the interests of Liberty, or
even of tyranny.
Three street urchins, shoeless, hatless, partly
shirtless, wholly insanitary, a German band and a
couple of hundred undergraduates. That was the
order of the procession that passed me in Pitt-
street en route to the down Hall. There was
nothing grotesque in it. No academic cap
was this time replaced by a mask, no asses’
ears were worn, no gown was doffed in favor of
calf-skin. Some of the students carried banners,
others—with pugilistic faces—smoked short pipes.
All looked self-conscious and rather ashamed of
themselves—perhaps because they Lad promised to
be good boys and Respectable.
At the Town Hall the campaign opened with the
singing of “ The Absent-minded ” and—but
here let me digress. Years ago, when mother was
young, there was a pianoforte-piece called “ The
Maiden’s Prayer” in the land, and almost as
“popular” as the “A.M.8.” is to-day. The
visitation lasted some decades, then the Fltegende
Blatter, a German paper that absolutely pers-
pires in its efforts to be comic, brought out two
cartoonlets on the subject. In the first, a maiden
is shown at the piano playing her “Prayer.” At
her shoulder stands Old Scratch smiling, and
beating time with his tail. In the second, bat-
talions of souls are being pitchforked into Tophet
by 0. Scratch’s understudies. The crime of these
lost souls was profanity induced by too much
“ Maiden’s Prayer.” I hope my moral is obvious.
Hall and galleries were packed with visitors.
At the back of the massed undergraduates was a
farden of color. The brightest headgear and
louses seemed to have eddied there, but, as a
matter of fact, the patch was merely thrown into
relief by the black-capped and gowned students’
square. It reminded me, as seen from the gallery,
of the poppy-show we made in the days when we
were shedding our milk-teeth. A petal from all
the flowers we could find sandwiched between two
pieces of broken window-glass. The -.. . f et gera-
nium petal killed the other colors, yso how we
loved it ! In this millinery patch the intrusive,
quarrelsome “ automobile ” shade killed even the
primary colors. From a distance the women-
students in their caps and cloaks and white
collars and cuffs looked like nurses ; only, unlike
nurses, they tucked away some obviously fine hair
under their trenchers as if ashamed of it. I advise
them to ask a theological student for the loan of a
Bible and read 1 Cor. 11. 15.
Mr. Whitfeld, president of the Undergraduates’
Association, and a crowd of graduates occupied
the platform, and looked as if they had come to
listen to a sermon on eternal punishment. The
undergrads behaved like seminarists. Never was
such an orderly commemoration. Only once was
the academic seriousness marred—when Lords
Roberts and Kitchener and Baden-Powell and
Kruger came up the hall to the foot of the plat-
form and asked for degrees. Lord Roberts ap-
peared to be suffering from blind staggers, and his
legs were stiff er than those of the real “Bobs.”
He saluted frequently and sat down on his helmet
often. Lord Kitchener’s facial make-up was so
good that he looked as wicked as the Khartoum
person he represented. At least I hope, for the
mummer’s sake, that it was make-up. Otherwise,
unless he can continue to wear some proof of per-
fect respectability, such as collar fastened behind,
a policeman’s badge, or a military uniform, he’ll
find himself so heavily handicapped in his career
by that face that he’ll never dare to move abroad
without credentials from two clergymen. Kruger
was ten inches under the real Krugerish standard,
and looked as if he would be grateful for a job at
umbrella-mending.
J can’t understand why the women students
didn’t make a demonstration in favor of Baden-
Powell; the gentleman who acted him looked nice
and had the Hat. Baden-Powell without that
Hat would be nothing but—Powell.
Mr. Whitfeld, a lock of fair hair verandahing
his forehead, made a good speech in a beautiful
voice explanatory and apologetic of the relations
between the Senate and the Undergrads’ Associa-
tion. Some one told me the speaker was studying
engineering. What a waste ! With that gift of
voice and Heaven-given tongue ! That such a man
should be a student of stump-jumping ploughs and
iron rams instead of a barrister championing
beauty in distress, or a High Church curate or
priest hearing confessions !
Mr. Reid, Q.C., in the scarlet robes of a doctor
of law, did not remind me of Essie Jenyns’ Portia
as he rolled up to the platform. He got the
biggest reception of the day and made one of those
speeches that leave the hearers midway between
happiness and misery. A kind of let-me-go-
home-and-beeome-good-and-great feeling. Shy-
ness versus jostling, self - reliance versus Self-
sufficiency, gave him some good openings to talk
at the “young mind.” It was all very fine yet
simple, and might be boiled down to Thoreau’s
“ Rescue the drowning and tie your shoe-strings.”
The ever-blushful George Reid hates the young
man who knows not the charm of shyness, and at
the statement he was wildly cheered by the male
uadergrads.—each was so fully assured of his own
kinship to the modest violet.
Student songs followed. “The Microbe that
Lurks in the Rat ” was quite a success, and the
squeak of the trapped rat on the Town Hall organ
was realistically pathetic—you could almost smell
the toasted cheese that lured him to his doom.
Presently all the young men of the University
Sports Club, responding to their roll-call, came up
to receive their badges and shake hands with the
President of the Sports Union.
The dressing was like the day—a St. Martin’s
summer day—-holding truce with winter. There
were tailor-mades and muslins and —and a sea-gull
sitting on a hat —a fashion which, lam told, hails
from the Pacific Slope. The wearer was a really
pretty girl, but you didn’t know that for a long
time because the personality of the gull held you.
It was a full-grown, able-bodied fowl with a power
of a beak, and it was leaning forward trying to
get a peep under the brim at the face of the
wearer. The life and humor in its eyes and pose
were astonishing. You could scarcely realise that
its legs were off and its vitals replaced by cloves,
pepper .and sawdust. Lady Harris, not looking
up to her usual form, was present with Miss
Harris.
Mayoress Harris’s reception last Tuesday after-
noon was a brilliant opening for the season. The
Mayoress wore grey brocaded in white. Miss
Harris was in heliotrope. A musical programme
of twelve numbers was capital. So were the tea
and decorations.
The last stage of the Victoria Ladies’ Club
ended in a Pitt-street auction room last week.
Not here any more than in London are women’s
residential clubs a success, yet there is a good
opening for them. An article in a recent number
of the Nineteenth Century attributes their
failure to vexatious rules and restrictions and high
rents. The Victoria Salon died some months
ago, and now the residential club’s furniture, its
grand piano, and mosquito-netted cots have passed
under the hammer. All went cheap except the
grand piano; that was withdrawn at £49. Mr.
Lawson nearly wept at having to let a case of
dessert knives and forks “which, on Miss
Manning’s honor, cost 10 guineas” go at £3 7s Gd.
A little Lee-Enfield rifle brought less than a
pound, two “ British bull-dogs ” (their ominous
click would alone keep males off the premises)
went at half-a-crown each. Some members of the
next Bushmen’s Contingent will go out murder-
ously armed, that’s certain.
Miss Alice Hollander’s debftt at the Y.M.C.A.
Hall drew such an audience that a third of it
couldn’t get past the mat. Some.of it stayed on
the mat and kerb, and was rewarded for its
patience and love of music with golden notes—all
the high notes. Miss Hollander has found favor
with the critics; recognised judges reckon her
voice a very good one, with a certainty of being
better. Scores of self-constituted judges they
who said Madame Albani couldn’t sing—say that
Miss Hollander hasn’t a voice and will have
a worse one. If the p ... debutante had put
herself in the hands of a fashion-expert, she would
have looked well—much better, in fact. That
short, scanty Empire robe strained across the bust
made the artistic eye sad and mad.
Yet another just-fledged contralto will sing at
the Y.M.C.A. hall on Wednesday, May 9. And
her name, Camille Sers, is a most attractive one,
and suggests a French novel. Favorite artists will
assist Miss Sers, and the concert will be under the
management of Mr. J. Ed. Sykes.
Everyone of any social consequence will be at
the Centennial Tennis Club’s sixth annual dance
at Leigh House on Friday, May 18. Tickets are
selling fast.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The old sweetheart who has taken Thekla
Dubberke for better or for worse is not likely
to repent his temerity, I reckon, inasmuch
as the evidence re Thekla’s share in the Boot
Trunk Tragedy business went to show that she
had the makings of a valuable wife. She was
not without feminine sympathy for unfortunate
Mabel Ambrose in her sufferings, but when the
girl had been done to death by a pair of heartless
fools, and sympathy couldn’t bring her back to
life, Thekla’s courageous callousness came to the
aid of her trembling companions. The idea of at
once ‘ giving them away ’ to save herself had no
charms for the fine, healthy Thekla. She strung
up her nerves and did her best for ‘ the firm,’
and now she has got a husband the chances are
that she 11 battle like a Boer woman in his
interests. * Thekla was a bit blue as a spinster,
but it was true blue all the time. May she live
happily and become the mother of a numerous,
strong-minded family !
“Judge Casey’s retirement from Vic. County
Court causas _ no weeping among lawyers in
general. ‘lt is a pleasure to listen to you, Mr.
fenookins,’ he would say to one in his oily way ;
and to another, snappishly, ‘ Nothing you can say
will affect my mind, Mr. brief.’ The Judge is an
inveterate _ diner-out, is supposed to be a fine
judge of wine, and can say pretty things to pretty
girls. The alert blue-stocking girl thinks him ‘ a
foolish old man.’ Not even C. J. Madden has a
politer smirk than Casey, but Madden also feels
politely, while people thought Casey was least to
be trusted when he was smiling most. He has
several times been to Egypt, and will go there
again in his retirement. He likes looking at the
Sphinx, and fooling round among mummies.
“ ?f°f- Marshall-Hall is bursting with energy,
and nis concert season promises to give musical
Melbourne plenty to listen to. Concerts under
his baton are on during the present week. It is
time for him to do something startling. He has
contributed nothing sensational for the diversion
of the city for over a year ; and a year without
Marshall-Hall getting into trouble of some sort is
a year thrown away.
In connection with Victoria’s portion of the
Imperial Contingent, Victoria has surpassed her-
self in her capacity for muddling. If she did not
want to send the men away, she should have said
so ; if she agreed to do it, she should have done it
properly. The scandals in regard to the whole
affair are almost uncountable. Too many men
were accepted. All were ill-fed, badly treated in
every conceivable manner. For a week they ate
sodden food, slept in pools of water, and were
perpetually wet tnrough. Their saddles are bad.
I heir guns were taken away at the last minute—
because—well, no one seems to know why. The
surplus men were kept in camp until the last day,
uncertain as to their fate —not even knowing they
were surplus. _ Then they were turned out, money-
u j man y instances in rags, for their clothes
had been worn out by the hard kfe of the first
weeks in camp.
“In travelling backwards and forwards from
Langwarrin, though in uniform, no reduction was
made in fares, although all members of other con-
tingents had travelled free without question. An
old woman who wished to bid her son farewell
walked 40 miles to do so, for neither he nor she
had the money for the fare. If Victoria does not
approve of free passes, she should have allowed
none to other contingents. She did allow them,
however, and created a precedent which has been
ungracefully and meanly broken. However, the
worst of the whole scandal is, I am told, the defec-
tive saddlery, and someone should suffer. But no
doubt it won’t be the guilty even then.
“After all, there may be much method in the
seeming madness of the damsels who go to China
to convert the heathen Chinky. News came to Mel-
bourne the other day that two of the Hot Gospel-
lers from that city—Miss Lizzie Hunt and Mr. J.
C- Platt—were lately married at Pao-ning, West
China. Woman’s first mission is to convert a
bachelor, or widower, into a husband.
“Weddings grow more and more theatrical,
boon superannuated scenic artists and ballet mis-
tresses may be able to turn a penny by group-
ing and marshalling Naicest marriage-pageants.
At a recent smart country ‘ tying-up ’ the
church smacked of a pantomime fairy-dell, what
with floral pillars, arches, and wedding-bells. The
floor was strewn with rose-petals, and the pulpit
and chancel-rails sulked behind a tropical planta-
tion. The leading actors faced the limelight, so
to speak, in front of an ivy trellis, from whose
open doors white doves flew, while a big blossom
bell dangled overhead.
“Me this same marriage: the railway arrange-
ments didn’t provide for a timely honeymoon
departure ; but, ble»s you, a wedding without a
farewell tableau would be like a pretty widow
minus a becoming ‘weeper’s cap.’ Anyway, at
the psychological moment the young things, in
chic travelling finery, stepped into a carriage
drawn by ‘ spanking greys.’ The bridegroom took
the reins, and off they dashed, amidst tears,
cheers, rose-leaves, and confetti. When the guests
were gone, the wanderers returned from their
drive, ate a good dinner, put on their second-bests
most likely, and left in real earnest by an evening
train.
“Another recent bride, a parson’s pretty
daughter, made a charming picture at the altar, as
she clasped devoutly a marriage-service, bound in
white moire, with long-fingered satin markers.
“Smiler Peacock is going to be married to a
Warmambool girl. His laugh is doomed. He is
said to have solemnly promised the lady to give it
up. In any case, he could not keep it up.
“Miss Holden, upon whom Mr. Peacock, that
incorrigible bachelor, is to bestow his hand, heart,
laugh, and all his other worldly goods, is a sister-
in-law of Mr. Horsfall, a local solicitor. The
bride-elect, an every-day, pleasant, chatty type of
girl, first struck it rich in the affections of the then
Minister of Education more than a year ago, when
he went to an A.N.A. conference at Port Fairy,
Miss Holden’s parental home.
“ People await on tenterhooks the announcement
of another political engagement, implicating a
bachelor, whose single bliss was a tried and trusted
thing in the long ago, when Mr. Peacock was but
a chick under the maternal wing.
“ The epidemic wedding-gift of the moment is
a silver photo-frame, while for trays, &c., mounted
in silver, ebony promises to oust oak.
“ Womanity has something in common with cat
and tiger nature. For instance, a belle cold-
shoulders an admirer and marries t’other fellow,
but she doesn’t wipe the lover all forlorn off her
slate ! If sugared smiles and honeyed invitations
can cajole an unsuccessful suitor to his charmer’s
wedding, lie’ll be there. Failing the chief mourner
himself, his sisters, cousins, or aunts are found
acting as bridesmaids, or in some other capacity,
where they serve as channels to convey accounts
of Herself’s bliss and bridal beauty to their restive
kinsman.
Chronicles of wedding-gifts provide interesting
reading for those in the know. Lorn adorers
often give spoons, goodness knows why.
“ The second son of Mr. Joshua, of ‘ Boomerang
Brandy ’ fame, has gone north to be married. His
bride, Miss Ballantyne, is a Queensland girl,
beautiful and charming, and their home will be in
Melbourne. The bridegroom, who belongs to the
firm, is an artist of some ability.
“Newest evening gowns do not soften the
meeting-place of bust and bodice. A firm line of
satin, or just the top of the bodice itself, is now
more modish, if less becoming.
“ Enormous silk flowers, poppies, orchids, &c.,
in green, pink and mauve, will crowd the hats
next Cup-day. Grapes and blackberries already
make beholders eye autumn toques with a hungry
glare.
“ The coming skirt is to have draperies caught
up at the back or on the hips. Even tailor-mades
are trimmed with straps and bands. Rear skirts
for the present have either single or double box-
pleats, flattened by ironing.
“The bubonic plague germ ought to have a
monument erected in its honor, to be placed (say)
in the Town Hall room where the councillors
1 wolf ’ their provender. The little beastie has
done what the doctors, the sanitarians, and the
decent members of the public have hitherto failed
to accomplish. The present writer’s back-yard,
for instance, has never been officially inspected
before. Now all backyards are being inspected by
an officer with gold braid on his flat and brass
buttons on his coat. The mere approacli of the
gorgeous being is enough to make backyards clean
themselves automatically. Writer’s dust-box,
which was poked by the ferrule of the inspector’s
umbrella, was heard saying to the back-drain that
it had been visited by the Lieutenant-Governor,
and was going to have the Royal Arms put on the
lid. Mere brag, of course, but the pride of the
dust-box was pardonable.
_ “ When a Melb. plague-inspector recently
visited a certain house and came in due course to
the kitchen the door was shut in his face, and a
sound was heard as of something weighty being
dragged across the floor. This was suspicious, and
the official insisted upon admission ; but as soon
as the door was opened the feminines who had
been escorting him rushed to the table and made a
great effort to conceal with their outspread skirts
something which was underneath the table. After
several futile efforts to see the investigator kicked
under the table, and his foot struck something
that returned a sharp metallic sound. ‘ What’s
in that tub ? ’ he authoritatively demanded. ‘My
sister ! ’ shrieked one of the girls. The poor man
had intruded upon an impromptu bathroom. He
gasped and bolted.
“I wonder how Samoa is getting on under
German rule. I was there some years ago, and the
big fat soldiers and sailors were cordially detested
by the natives. I don’t imagine Germans are
naturally more cruel than Britons, but they are
more over-bearing and tyrannous, and insist on
ruling where rule is not needed. However some
of the women put up with them contentedly. I
stopped to speak to a handsome girl of twenty
who stood on the beach with two children at her
skirt and a third in her arms. ‘Yours?’ ‘Yes,
mine ! This one,’ signifying the eldest, ‘ Consul’s’
little boy. This one Fritz Hoffmeyer’s. This
one my husband’s ’—and she bent over the infant
fondly. The incident stuck in my mind, because
I had two Melbourne girls with me—and they
flushed a lovely crimson.
“ Poor Mrs. Dr. Blair is quite heart-broken over
the death of her aboriginal boy, Lamey, whom she
adopted when he was a little Queensland foundling.
The piccaninny had grown into an intelligent,
polite little gentleman, and his ‘mother’ could
never see anything funny in the contrast between
their complexions. Nor was it until Larhey’s
death that she ever heard the story—which is a
wicked fib. by the way—of her introducing ‘my
boy ’ to Lady Hopetoun, and being snubbed with
the sneerful remark, ‘ By a former husband, I pre-
sume.’ Lady H. didn’t say anything of the sort.
But the fibster wasn’t very wrong in supposing
that the chillv, silent Governoress might have said
it if the idea nad occurred to her. Women would
say some awfully sweet things to one another if
they could only think of them at the time.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
Noticeable that Banjo Paterson’s and
Baden Powell’s initials are the same—they are
both B.Ps. When the gallant pressman saw so
many well-dressed and shapely damsels thronging
the streets of Bloemfontein he knew the P.D.
corset was in evidence and accepted this as a proof
of a high degree of civilisation and good taste—on
the part of the lady inhabitants, anyhow. Thus
both B.Ps. concur in their admiration of the
female form in its P.D. state.*
[Forecast for afy Sodefifyite Period.]
Fronj fIARK FOY’S OBSERVATORY,
OXFORD STREET.
BGsiOSSs a od Clear” geoerally, tboGgb
“Storey” at ccrtaii} tinjeS of tb€ year.
Tbc present iodicatioo points to diStCirbapce
ACitCiroo FaSbiopS.”
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
V/lN C
S*MAOnNES
-^1
Write (or our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarlcet), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St, Brisbane.
GLOB 6 TEAS wo
I
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ Cecil Rhodes, ” writes somebody, “is a
glorified Randolph Bedford.”
Sergeant-Major W. Napier, of Carlton, is
believed to be the only man in Victoria in posses-
sion of a V.C. The distinction was won in India
in 1858.
Brassey’s son Tom has abandoned the idea
of going to the war. That’s fortunate. There
was always the danger of a Brassey being regarded
as a bore.
An interesting item is that R. D. Meagher
(M.L.A.) is applying to be restored to the N.S.W.
roll of solicitors, off which he was struck after his
Dean affair.
While Henry Lawson was passing through
Melbourne, last week, a quick sketch, in oils, said
to be a very powerful picture, was made of him by
John Longstaff.
During a post-mortem on the body of a
man recently drowned in the Campaspe River
(Victoria), Dr. Kelly, of Echuca, found a wax
match imbedded in the deceased’s heart.
Sydney suburban Police-court amenities :
Fuming little solicitor—“My friend opens his
mouth as if he were going to eat me.” His friend—
“ Pardon me, your Worship, I’m a Jew and don’t
eat pork.”
American-Consul-gasometer Bell the other
day prefaced a full column of mellifluous skite, in
Sydney Daily Telegraph, with the remark that
he doesn’t like appearing in print. The Bulletin
should smile!
Mrs. Fraser, the fair shootist, proposes to
follow up her luck by taking a pub in Melbourne.
Her application for a transfer of the license of the
London Hotel, Market St. (off Collins St.) will be
made this week.
Capt. W. R. Randell, who opened up the
navigation of the river Murray to steamers before
Capt. Cadell took a boat up the stream, completed
his 70th year May 1. He still lives at Cumeracha,
S.A., and has an interest in Murray boats.
Dr. Torreggiani, the Italian R.C. Bishop
of Armidale, has been lying seriously ill at
Waverley, Sydney. The bishop, scaling close on
21st., is reputed the heaviest ecclesiastic in Aus-
tralia, and the heaviest bishop in British posses-
sions.
Died, at Powell's Creek, Centralia, Alfred
Pybus, one of the best of bushmen—the man who
led Gov. Kintore’s party across the continent in
91, and by his good work turned into a picnic
what might easily have been something far less
pleasant.
The modified Linotype outlined by J. A.
Andrews in a recent Bulletin is being taken up
m earnest in Melbourne. Some energetic spirits,
among whom are a couple of practical printers,
think they scent a good tiling, and are eager to
commence operations.
Adelaide’s first bishop, the muscular Dr.
Short, in his day a crack boxer and runner, has a
frandson in the S.A. section of the Imperial
uishmen. On the other side, the youngster is a
grandson of Egerton Warburton, one of the
pluckiest of Australian explorers.
1 he Earl of Yarmouth, whose girly imper-
sonations shook up Australian society a few years
ago, is appearing m New York as a real live pro.
apparently in opposition to the Duke of Manches-
ter, who is in a rival co. The bloatered earl got
rats from the N. Y. press for forgetting his lines.
According to an Argus contributor, that
doughty pugilist, E. P. Slavin counted the loss
of three toes among his Klondyke experiences.
He joined in a rush from Dawson City, stayed out
all night to protect his claim (one man who knew
not Slavin tried to jump it), wore leaky boots, and
was frost-bitten.
Sergeant-Major Griffin, recently memorial-
tableted at Parramatta, N.S.W., was not —as has
been asserted—“ the first Australian to fall in the
South African war.” Griffin was killed at Rens-
burg on January G, but on New Year’s Day had
fallen, at Sunnyside, two Queenslanders —Jones
and M‘Leod.
Of Sydney aldermen, five have held their
seats for 20 years or over. Dean and Lees score
20, R. lowler and John Taylor 21 and 22 respec-
tively ; John Harris has mopped his brow there
for 23 years, and the patriarchal M. Chapman
counts 35 years in office. No wonder Sydney has
wooden aldermen.
J. Langdon Parsons —ex - parson, ex-
Minister of the Crown, ex-N.T. Govt. Resident,
and now S.A. Japanese Consul—is trying to
squeeze into S.A. Leg. Council. He is one of the
brightest^orators S.A. has seen, and—although a
red-hot lory now—was one of the men who
secured free education for S.A.
In Vic. Supreme Court, t’other day, Mel-
bourne’s Mayor M‘Eacharn sought to make a
public statement re a certain suit, and, in
doing so, began by addressing Judge a’Beckett
as “My lord.” The M'Eacham’s extreme in-
timacy with the aristocracy while in London must
be pleaded in extenuation.
Kitchener would have been Commander
in Chief of the British forces in S. Africa at the
beginning of the war had Buller not pressed his
claims on the score of seniority. It is now the
function of the former to collect evidence to lay
before “ Bobs” in proof of Buller’s unsatisfactory
generalship. Nuts for the ex-Sirdar.
Fred. Robertson as editor (with C. R.
Wilton as assistant editor), runs the literary de-
partment of S.A. (Adelaide) Advertiser during
Editor Bonvthon’s absence in London. Robertson
has been connected with the paper for over 20
years. When he gets back Bonython will be one
of the S.A. Protectionist candidates for the
Federal Senate.
A screaming Sydney daily paper actually
prints this :
But what price a picture of Kitchener’s beautiful
bowel as the Secret of England’s Greatness ?
The provincialism of the precious War
News which Majah Reay pours into Melbourne
’Ekald is worthy of a tea-fight reporter. At one
time or other the faithful Majah must have men-
tioned nearly every member of the first Victorian
contingent by name. The unimportance of the
rest of the British Army in South Africa was
revealed in a recent six-inch paragraph concerning
the contingent’s new gun.
Judge Casey retires from Vic. County
Court in time to take a turn or two through the
current Paris Exhibition. He was a commissioner
at the Paris Exhibition of over 20 years ago, from
which he carried away a C.M.G. Probably his
most useful performance was the compilation of
“ Casey’s Justices’ Manual.” He also, by motion,
established the Victorian Parliamentary Hansaud.
He is a native of Ireland, and 70 years of ago.
E.\-Attorney-General Want enters lnsssih
year, May 4. He has had a fair share of the good
things in N.S.W. legal and political life. Briefs
have abounded. On two occasions a seat on the
Supreme Court Bench was in his offer, and the
Premiership of his party was once formally ten-
dered to him. Withal, law has for him no fascina-
tions, and the atmosphere of the courts disagrees
with him. Politically, he holds a portion of the
creed of every party.
Captain Miles, of the Strahan Harbor
Board odor, did not face Parliament after all.
When he stood for Hobart, and was re-elected on
the dingo ticket, he evidently thought that the
monumental stench had blown over. But the
press rose and said things, and the other day the
gallant marine financier handed in his resignation,
it was a stupid thing to do. The people of
Hobart said they wanted Miles *or their member,
and they deserved to get tiim.
English Metuo
dist Times has fallen
viciously foul of W.
T. Stead because, in
reproducing, in Jan.
ReviewOf Reviews,
The Bulletin cari-
cature (18/11/’99) en-
titled “The Prayer
of the Righteous,” he
changed • the label
thereof to—“ Great-
est Britain —or, a day
of prayer, a la Price
Hughes.” Well, The
B U L L E TIN doesfi’t
blame Stead for thus
focussing its general
indictment of tl.o
blood-bellowing par-
son. The “ B.’s ”
abstract and general
presentment of the
case doubtless fits the
aforesaid Price
Hughes well enough
in the concrete—else,
why this yelpiug ?
William T., in fact,
did no more than
a little judicious
“range-finding” ;and
since the shot seems
to have got home so
hard amongst the
Holy Joes of the Me-
thodist Times, this
paper has only to add
—“All’s well that
ends well! ”
Capt. Cook first
descried Australia
19th April, 1770. The
anniversary of the
occasion is the time
to say again that
Captain Cook never
visited Port Jackson.
Despite common
opinions, his eye
never lit on the Beau-
tiful Harbor. Cook
as a boy was the
stamp of imp now
collared and run on
the reformatory-ship
Yemon. He was a
level-headed and courageous man when at the age
of 42 he landed at Kumell, Botany Bay. (He
did not fly the Union Jack at the masthead,)
Cook did not appropriate the whole of Australia
by right of discovery; he only claimed the
Eastern Coast, and it was this coastline alone
which justified his giving the name of New South
Wales. Miles of the coast are undo ibtedly like
parts of the Welsh coast. The first reputed
“ devil ” found by his sailors in Australia Cook
hunted down and found to be a bat, thus strang-
ling a superstition in its infancy.
Dr. Leith Napier, the Adelaide front-rank
surgeon, who had his skull fractured at the mili-
tary camp while the second contingent was being
prepared, has made such a marvellous recovery
that recently he was able to visit the Imperial
“ Bushmen’s ” camp. Like Dr. Ramsay Smith,
the other imported senior, Napier is a military
enthusiast—his only son is in one of the S.A.
corps in Safrica.
Should the Chamberlain-proposed Imperial
Court of Appeal materialise, who will be the
“Lord” to represent Australia? Of course he
will have to be made here on the spot. Will it
be the most capable man, Sam. Griffith —or the
obsequious little Way? It certainly won’t be
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darlcy, who, it is cabled,
“ implored ” Agent-General Salomons to protest
publicly against the abolition of the Australian
appeal to the Privy Coun'-il.
COMPARISDAS.
AUSTRALIAN TROOPER: “ Why, blimey! you're
nothing but a ‘cocky’ farmer from the back-
blocks!”
BOER TROOPER : “ Ditto! ”
li Banjo ” Patterson’s book of verses from
The Bulletin, “The Man from Snowy River,”
has now, within four years from first publication,
had an issue of 20,000 copies at five shillings—the
biggest success ever made by any book in Austral-
asia. And where is the modern English versifier,
bar three or four, who has sold even 5,000 copies
of his verses ?
H. INI. Hyndman, the London Socialist,
having gone to South Africa to exploit a newly-
invented quick-firing gun, Argus correspondent
McDonald says that “H.M. Il.’s projects for
levelling the masses have evidently taken a now
turn.” Which recalls A. G. Taylor’s joke about
politician-undertaker Ninian Melville’s desire to
“ settle people upon the land.”
Mr. W. H. Wood, of the Lyne Cabinet,
was dubbed “ The Surprise ” one day last week.
How he became Minister for Justice was so diffi-
cult to guess that prospective matrimonial rela-
tionships were invented for him. His appoint-
ment now to the post of Colonel-Commandant of
A NEW WAY TO PAY OLD DEBTS.
Hurry up, Sits; I owe that chap five hob
S HE: “ Surely you can pay a trifling sum like that? ”
“Course I can; that’s why I’m keeping out of his way!”
the First Australian Horse is as hard to account
for. Mr Wood’s Volunteer rank lias been that of
Lieutenant.
Chief-Justice Way, S.A.’s dapper, self-
important Judge, was asked recently for an
opinion on some disputed point. He cleared his
throat and gave what he called “ the legal view.”
“ Now,” he said, “I will give you the common -
sense view.” The antithesis made people laugh,
and the perky little Judge colored up. “Law and
common-sense,” he said with much dignity,
“always run on parallel lines.” “True, your
Honor,” chipped in a local scribe, “ but not only
may parallel lines be any distance apart, but they
can never meet.”
To be found out by lightning on one.of
the interminable plains of the N.S.W. Far West
is hard luck, indeed. Yet it was the fate recently
of A. E. Roberts, one of the most pushful of the
Lands Department’s staff surveyors. He deserved
longer life for his industry ; for, instead of idling
away the long evenings in camp he had filled
them by reading for the Bar, and was shortly to
go for his qualifying exam. Mr. Roberts was re-
sponsible for the greater part of the survey of the
White Cliffs.
One morning John Norton arrived at Cir-
cular Quay from His waterside residence, and
hailed a cab; but his two dogs wouldn’t get on
board, preferring to frolic about the Quay to the
accompaniment of much benison from John.
Presently, catching one of the canines, John
hurled it into the cab with a saintly exclamation ;
whereupon a bystander exclaimed—“ One !” Then
the other tyke was caught and cabbed ; and the
bystander counted—“ Two !” And, when John
himself followed, the wag announced —“ Three !”
Jas. Bon wick, F.R.G.S., author of numer-
ous Australian historical books and discoverer of
the tomb of Gov. Phillip, celebrated the 60th
anniversary of his wedding at his residence,
Upper Norwood, London, on 17th April, 1900.
Of late years he has done congenial work
in London as assistant compiler of the his-
torical records of N.S.W. In 1860, when In-
spector of Schools in Victoria, he had a para-
lytic seizure, and was a semi-invalid for years.
He is now in good health at the age of 84. A
very unusual history.
Edward Murphy, M.L.A. (Vic.), recently
deceased, was a genial soul without an enemy.
His great legislative feat was getting the Bungaree
Racecourse Railway Bill through in the teeth of
Premier Turner’s declaration that the Govt, would
not accept it under any conditions. Murphy
made a speech so full of engaging Irish humor
that the House, in a fit of hilarity, passed the
measure by a large majority. Turner fumed, and
said he would arrange with the Leg. Council to
throw out this objectionable line of railway ; but
the M.’sL.A. only roared all the more.
A queer story is told of Benjamin Bridge,
of Narrabri and thereabouts in N.S. Wales, the
noted horse-manipulator and daring bushman
He broke gaol in N.S.W. long ago while serving a
sentence, and having lately been caught in
Westralia was convicted of escaping and sent up
again for two years. It is stated that while at
large after his disappearance he turned up in
Western N.S.W. effectually disguised as a blank
gm and while masquerading as such made the
necessary arangements for his devoted wife to join
him in the West. It is claimed for Bridge that he
lived an honest life while at large, and the Judge
before whom he was convicted promised that if he
could bring evidence to that effect a commutation
would be reoommended.
A. M. Donohue, the London Daily
Chronicle war correspondent who was present at
the capture of Cronje, was less than two years ago
a reporter on Sydney Evening News. He was
noted in Sydney for always having the luok
to be present at accidents. He managed to be
at most of the fatal tram accidents which occurred
while he was in Sydney. He was there when
the lion “Burns’’chewed Fitzgerald’s trainer and
also when diver Peart jumped to death. His luck
has not deserted him sinoe he went to England
with the Lancers, for he managed to get appointed
to a roving war correspondentship, and several of
the seniors being disabled or killed, he slid into
the job of representing a big London daily—right
in the very spot where all the accidents were
happening.
H. M. Hyndman, who was in Ladysmith
luring the siege, experimenting with a new gun
ui the interests of an English firm of manufac-
turers, had a narrow escape of being an able man-
but he is a faddist, and doesn’t stick to things!
After a creditable journalistic connection with
Pall Mall Gazette, under Greenwood he
visited Australia and Fiji in 1869-70. When in
Melbourne, he contributed to the Argus a remark-
ably smart and slating criticism of Marcus
Clarke’s earliest novel, “Long Odds” (first pub-
lished as a serial). The only chapter he spoke
well of was the one written by G. A. Walstab
during Clarke’s illness. Hyndman is remem-
bered in Fiji as the man who offended missionary
Lonmer Fison by objecting, at that good and
genial parson’s table, to grace before meat, with
tiie remark, “ I never pray on an empty stomach ”
On his return to the old country, he tried to create
a scare about the Indian finances, which did not
come off. His next idea was that of becoming a
leader of the Socialists in conjunction with Cham-
pion and others, and he was successful to the
extent of getting himself imprisoned. He seems
now to be a sort of glorified drummer.
Solomon Joseph, proprietor of Tamworth
News, and one time editor of a Hebrew journal in
Melbourne, was last week found dead at his office
at 66 years of age, Mr. Joseph had many of the
qualities which should make a country newspaper
pay handsomely if handsome returns were possible
m such an occupation. He was one of the N.S.W.
country editors who took a weekly letter at a few
shillings from pressman Reseigh Martin (lately
deceased), who had a distorted Railway-Commis-
sioner Eddy on the brain. Whatever the regular
news might be, Martin (he had a connexion in the
N.S.W. railway department) ran in a couple of
pars, rankly libelling the Chief Commissioner.
His special delusion was that Eddy was filling up
N.S.W. railway service with male and female
relatives from England. Eddy at last picked out
a few pars , and scared the proprietors well-nigh
out of their wits. “Be prosecuted for criminal
libel or surrender the writer’s name.” Martin
too was frightened, and begged the newspapers
to keep his name dark, a request some of them
complied with, but which Mr. Joseph, for
pizness’ sake, ” declined to entertain. As the
matter in all the letters was the same, Eddy was
content with Joseph’s divulgement, and ran Mar-
tin into hard labor for a couple of years. Now
Joseph, Martin, and Eddy are at rest.
Fashioned well with nature’s trowel,
Men like “ Hobs ” and Baden -Powell!
Kitchener, of nerve and bowel!
Fig-lit for God and England’s Right! 1!
Hotel
Australia
Bates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of aU meals and attendance.
Dr. Gresswell, President of Victorian
Board of Health : “ There is no
danger in coming to Sydney at
the present time. Of course, it
depends a great deal where the
visitors go. To come to a place
like The Australia Hotel is to run
no risk at all."
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
The season for visiting the old country having
come round again, the upper four-hundred of Sydney are
booking passages for London, and as a safeguard are as
usual depositing their plate and other valuables in the
Sydney Safe Deposit. In many cases they are also rent-
ing safes for the storage of their deeds, etc. In either
case the rentals are very moderate, and the business of
the Deposit is, we learn, rapidly increasing. A visit is
freely invited. The address is Ash-street (back of
Paling’s), off George-street.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR AIjL STOCK AM) POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
Lorimer’s
Compound Syrup of // ypopfioaphites.
. . Beware of Imitations . .
Solk Aghnt for N.B.W. :
0. E. Newman, King-st., Sydney.
Ayinards Milk Sterilisers
- to arrive shortly.
S2&~ A Revolution in Sterilisers.


Aboriginalities.
A peculiar case of “ insulting behaviour ”
comes from the vicinity of Bright, Gippsland. A
miner living in a slcillion within a couple of miles
of the township was disturbed in the night by
what he first imagined was the restless and un-
reasonable conduct of his wife, but having fully
awakened he was amazed to find that there were
three people in the bed. His wife was over against
the wall, but next him on the right was a foreign
body of considerable bulk. The husband and
father promptly hoisted the latter on to the floor
with a solid bump, sprang out after, and struck a
light. What he discovered was Jim the hatter
from the hut under the hill, sitting on the
floor, blinking stupidly at his host, and looking
deeply grieved. Jim was in a condition of melan-
choly inebriety, and commenced to shed tears
when expostulated with, and wailed aloud about
the inhumanity of man when the furious house-
holder threw him out into the wild night and
tossed his clothes after him. Jim had simply
wandered into the house and turned in
with his neighbour. The only explanation he
would offer was : “I wash sho lonely, ole f’lr— sho
lonely! ”
* * * •
Herewith subjoined (from La France
Australe) a specimen of English “as she is
spoke” by the natives of New Caledonia. The
subject of the extract is the india-rubber industry.
The N.C. Government has given a monopoly to
one individual as against all the other buyers.
These latter have .appealed to the home authori-
ties, and persist in buying the raw product:—
Oil mans, mane bouche, mane blong sole wata. Oil
wombne, mo oil pikiuini! You all hi came hi hiirhim
toke blong mi fala :
You sav6 him hia woude, walte men hi coll him banian,
ah yes you sav6. Ebin you sikirrap him, sikirrap him ap,
milelc hi came.—Ah hi goud. Him hia milek you mdke y
stop longsane, hi come oil s6me oine sameting. France-
inane hi coll him lastic, you sav6 lastic? das fala you
poule him, hi came long fala, ii you 16go hi canSe shorte
fala back higbne. Mi sav6 same nada men hi coll him
(caoutchouc). Ebin him hia lastic. You m<ske oil s6me
bolle, ah you loukaout, you no poutime stone long bolle
blong you, mi cat him. Sippose hi no got stone mi p&me
plinti mani.
Mi no giamane, all taime mi toke trou, me no toke
eroukete !
Toke blong Monopole hia, hi giamane, hi spik him oine
no more hi vvinte p6me. Toke blong him hi no strfete.
You no hare him toke blong him.
Mi no caire Monopole. You no fraite, you came haouse
blong mi oil time, you bring hem.
Oil rai'te. Goud bal.
* * » *
Dear Bulletin. —A surveyor in Westralia
found two turtle-eggs in the Serpentine River,
and gave them to a confrere, who was going to
England. They were kept for about a month on
the drawing-room mantelpiece, and then packed
in a trunk at departure. This trunk was not
opened till a considerable time after arrival in
England, and was then found to contain two
young turtles, which, at latest advices, were doing
THE TRIUMPH OF THE RATS.
An up-to-date menu-card design.
Wfdl Which Is rprrmrkahlo cnnsidprinfr +V,of, the
well. W men is remarkable, considering that tne
eggs were first knocked about in camp tor seveial.
days, then left in a fireless room for a month ;
then jostled about per ship and railway, and
finally hatched amid the rigors of an English
winter ! This is absolutely true, and I should be
o-lad to hear of anv similar occurrence —,T M R
giaa to near 01 any similar occunonce. o .m.xt.
**. * *
“ Lyndhurst ” : It is not always the case
that a turtle turned on its back can’t right itself.
T knew of one tint used to “ rook ” itself on the
1 knew oi one that usea to lock itsoir oi
curve of its shell, harder and harder, till it was
tipped-up enough to fall over on its belly. A
South Sea islander also told me that he knew of
about 50 turtles being turned over at night and
Koino- rmnp in flu. mnmi'no-
°° * *
mi t t
“ P.T.F. : The Australian does love a
horse . Cocky friend of mine spent all last week
searching for stray stock. Not out of saddle whole
r • r r, c i ODn OYir i
time except for absolutely necessary sleep and
tucker. Saturday night lie rode 10 miles to town
for a little relaxation. Took it astride a wooden
gee-gee on a merry-go-round. Told me afterwards
that he had done 57 trips, and only knocked off
then because he was down to his last “bob,” and
(apologetically) a man must have one beer when he
comes to town.
*.* * *
' “ W.M.B. Forty miles from Narrabri 1
struck a hut occupied by a kind of hermit. He
- the nephew of a well-known General and hajl
been 2u years in the busli. The God foisaken patch
he was on wouldn t grow anything in a good
season let alone a bad one. Ho had about 30 goats
which he used as meat. No one ever passed by
except the mail-boy and an occasional swagman.
The recluse had a yearly income from “’Ome”
yet he chose that sand-heap to live on, solus.
* * * *
“Trotter”: Heard at Gulgong six that
swagmen were camped in the park pavilion. I
joined them, and gathered that No. 1 was a travel-
ling shoemaker. He carried an enormous swag, in-
cluding tools and a pair of iron lasts weighing
251bs. No. 2 was an Englishman and an ex-bank-
clerk. His swag consisted of six chaff-bags which
he placed inside one another and then got in him-
self—he called it “rap.” He had been 10 years
on the track, and only worked when he couldn’t
help it. No. 3 was a seasoned veteran who had
his round from Mudgee to Wellington, then across
to Gunnedah and back by Muswellbrook. He
knew_ all the places to call at and those to miss.
This is the kind of thing : “Brown’s at \V., he
gives tea and sugar—the old man left it in his will
that no swagman who called was to go without
tea and sugar. At Blunt’s station you get a
deener (shilling) but no tucker. At Smith’s you
get a pannikin of dust (flour).” And so on.
Someone asks: “How about tobacco?” “Oh,
I’m never without weed. You see I smokes bad
tea; then I gets into shows, races, anywhere
where there’s a crowd. I picks out two or three
toffs and blows the smoke all over them till some-
one says, 4 My dear man ! what kind of tobacco
is that you’re smokin’ ? ’ 4 ’Tain’t terbaccer,’ says
I, ‘it’s tea. Can’t get terbaccer these times.’
Then they hands me a pooch or half-a-plug to go
away.” No. 4 was a dapper little piano-tuner
who confided to me that he had been drinking.
He had no swag. No. 5 was a cook, chiefly given
to hard swearing, and No. 6 an Indian hawker
who sat in a corner by himself and ruminated.
Truly a mixed lot!
* * * *
“ R.H.L.” : Fossicking on the Wentworth
(Gippsland), I started sinking one morning in a
new gully. Saw a snake—stuck the pick m the
ground, and smote him dead with the shovel;
then, turning round for tho pick, very nearly put
my hand on another snake, corkscrewed round tho
handle. Drawing off wearily to get a good biff, I
spotted another, coiled-up in the dish. I left.
* * * *
One of the characteristics of the Aus-
tralian bushman, in the stock-fattening parts
especially, is his ability to tell the weight of a
beast almost to a hair. The weight-guessing com-
Eetition is the most popular part of many way-
ack shows ; and very often one or two strike the
exact figure. At Goulburn, lately, no less than
four “guessed” that a bullock on exhibition
weighed 9401 b., which was right.
* * * *
He wanted work all right. Letter re-
ceived by a N.S.W. quarry-boss:—
To the Manger.—Dear Sir, —Do you want a good useful
Man that can do Blacksmithing and other Wood Work
such a Carpenter and any other Work also work a
Engine and also Work in a quarry also or any other Work
if in want of a Man as I am open for any kind of Work.
• • » *
“W.J.C.” : The recent Maori carnival
at Wellington was vastly disappointing. The
flavor of civilisa-
tion utterly spoils
the present - day
Maori. Picture
an all-but-naked
hero prancing
about issuing vo-
ciferous chal-
lenges—with feet
encased in sharp-
toed tan boots 1
And the women—
tricked out in
modern finery !
I fail to see any
superiority in the
Maori girl over
the youthful Aus-
tralian gin. In
personal appear-
ance, rage for
outlandish frip-
pery, and moral
squeamishness the
Maori is no whit
better than the
Barwon aboriginal.
“ San Reno, ” on young blacltfellows :
Have you ever observed the marked difference in the
spirits and energies of the adult blackfellow a'nd the
young ditto ? In my experience of the Australian blacks
this contrast has always attracted my attention. The
average Australian white adult (though not of the most
energetic race on earth) surpasses the average black in
energy, life, and go, but the black youngsters are far
more Sjvely and full of animal spirits than the white
children. About the age of 12, or soon after, the small
black’s brain and energy seem to give out, and he becomes
a murky pessimist. In a small butcher’s shop in a Cen-
tralian township some years ago there were with us two
comical and frolicsome little blackfellows about 12 years
old, the liveliest, most cheery little fellows I ever met.
Their curiosity was marvellous : anything they could not
understand they would worry over for days. They
were willing to work, too. Anything that Dealboy
or Tarpot was put to do he simply jumped at.
The new sausage-machine interested them very much.
Tarpot solemnly dropped lumps of beef into the machine,
while Dealboy turned the handle, both with wide-staring
eyes watching the meat as it disappeared and emerged.
Tarpot asked ‘ ‘ Where that pheller meat get to ? ” I pro-
mised to open up the machine and show how it worked
when they had put through all the beef. That beef went
through in record time. When the machine was opened
Dealboy raised the question, “ S’posem we put wallaby
longa that pheller, you think it come out bossum ? ” Tar-
pot looked at him in scorn. Next to the shop lived the
local J.P., who was the possessor of a glass eye, with the
cold, pitiless gaze of which artificial optic he was wont to
transfix the casual drunk. Tarpot volunteered to turn
the grindstone while the J.P. sharpened an axe. After
working manfully for a few minutes Tarpot happened to
look up, and the rigid optic almost mesmerised him. Long
and earnestly he gazed, a look of amazed wonder on his
ebony countenance. The grindstone stopped, and the
handle fell from his nerveless grasp. In an awed
voice he solemnly asked, “My word, Mither Bosite,
what for that pheller eye been look that way ? ”
Tarpot spent the rest of the day trying to acquire the
fixed expression of the J.P.'s glass eye, and Dealboy
helped him. A few mornings later, when the incident
had slipped from my mind, Tarpot and Dealboy were sent
to drive a cartload of beef Co the station. Standing on
the footpath, I saw their driving became more and more
erratic, till at last the horse got on the footpath, and the
shafts and harness became entangled round a verandah
post. I disengaged the horse and the ruins, and then
demanded an explanation. It came promptly. Tarpot
and Dealboy had been trying to drive and to wear the
expression of the J.P.’s glass eye at the same time—hence
the disaster. I have seen Tarpot since then. He is a list-
less grown-up nigger, and a shipload of glass eyes would
not turn him from his path, provided he knew they were
not eatable.
• * • *
“ Tokai ” on a food-horror :
The Q. Minister of Agriculture lately said, in answer to
a question, that he was not aware that any Queensland
meat-works kept pigs which were fed </n offal. Yet pre-
sent writer knows of one big concern (often visited by a
Govt, inspector) where, when things are in full swing,
scores of pigs of all sorts and sizes—some with sore heads,
others with sore eyes, sore backs and sore legs, tumorous,
hideous brutes —feed upon and wallow in offal. Some
time ago a commercial traveller was spending the night
at an accommodation house on one of the Queensland
roads. A big cattle station was within a quarter of a
mile (chiefly owned by a large meat firm), and a number
of cattle-yards were close by, at that time full of cattle.
In the morning, about 9 o’clock, the drummer met a
stockman employed on the station ; the yards were nearly
empty, all but half-a-dozen bullocks. “ What was all the
IF!!
JOHN NORTON ( loq.): “If I were Bishop of
Sydney! ”
noise about this morning?” “Drafting scallywags,”
answered the stockman. “ What are scallywags ? ” ‘ “ Oh,
diseased cattle —scabby, deformed, tuberculous, sick,
lame, lazy.” I suppose they are all killed and burnt ? ”
“ Well, you must be green. No fear ; they are sold to
selectors who keep pigs. They kill them and burn them,
certainly. What do you think ? ” The pig, perhaps, of
all animals, is most liable to tuberculosis. And the
authorities who, knowing of such horrors as the above,
yet take no steps to remedy them, are cold-blooded mur-
derers, no more, no less.
Dear Bulletin.— Be animal chivalry (B,
10/3/’00), I once had tw6 fox-terriers—one of each
sex—and during the five years I had them
together T nover once saw the dog bite or maltreat
the slut in any way. For amusement I have often
started them “scrimmaging” in fun, and when,
as nearly always happened, she commenced to
“go” for him in earnest, he would stand per-
fectly still, his head turned aside, and let her
worry away with such a will that I frequently had
to go to the rescue. Often, too, I would give
them a large bone—making each take an end ;
but the moment my authority was withdrawn the
dog relinquished his end. He was a dog of mettle,
too, and could keep his end up with the best of
his own sex. As to horses, however, I have fre-
quently seen stallions kick mares, apparently
without provocation.—B.W.
* * * *
“ Ken ” : Re animal chivalry or otherwise.
My fox-terrier incessantly chivvies the cat, except
when puss has maternal duties to perform. Then
ho declares a truce; but, alas ! on the other hand,
when his own spquse is rearing a family, he snaps
a*id snarls at his progeny whenever they come
near him. Doubts as to paternity a possible
cause. But, for downright unchivalry, our family
rooster takes the cake. Besides neglecting to pay
the usual attentions to a poor, old, half-blind hen,
he has been known to sneak up and rob her of a
hard-earned worm.
* * * *
“Gun”: Have known over 2000 wild
duck to be poisoned in one Riverina lucerne-
planted ram-paddock. The birds were nipping
off the tender young shoots intended for the
gentlemen sheep, and had to go. There will soon
bo no game to poison in New South Wales.
* * • *
“ Werritne© ” : “ Wonga ” (B. 24/3/’OO / ) is
a bit mixed about snakes. Most venomous snakes
can expand the head, but they cannot expand or
contract the body; and the reason “W.” couldn’t
pull his snake out of the hole was because he was
pulling against the edges of the scales, which rise
slightly from the body. To demonstrate this, put
a snake on level ground and draw it backwards.
I once caught a whip-snake by the tail when it had
got half into a hole, and hung on till it broke in
two, the forepart disappearing below.
* • * *
“P.”: Yes, as a way-backer says (B.
31/3/’00) there is some compensation for living far
from the madding crowd in the fact
that you escape things like “The
A.M.8.” But, as a set-off, just think
of the horror of having a mate there
who knows that and nothing else. I
was thus placed once for three weeks
with a. man who had somehow picked
up “My grandfather's clock,” with its
agonising “tick, tick, tick, tick”—
worse, far worse, for once, than “pay,
pay, pay.”
“ S.” : Know one large farmer in Victoria
who has about 20 boys—orphans—boarded out to
him. He receives 6s. per boy weekly. The boys
practically run his estate. State aid tothepro-
ducer!
BEHIND THE BAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By the camp-fire I am sitting,
And I watch the shadows flitting
■Through the tall and dusky gum-trees that like
ghosts spread out afar;
There’s a sadJiess stealing o’er me
As a vision comes before me,
And I dream again I see you as you stand behind
the bar.
And I often think and wonder,
By the starlight as I ponder,
Am I any of the many (could a small boy reach
a star ?). t
While the firelight' 8 rising, siidcing,
Again I dream that lam drinking—
Drinking drinks by white hands given as you
stand behind the bar.
In these dusty wildernesses
Voice whose tones were soft caresses,
Like music when some careless seraph leaves
God’s gates ajar,
Comes back unto me calling,
And the reddened ashes falling
Are like jewels in your scented hair behind the
city bar.
A.A.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
WATSON’S WHISKY.
MAGONOCHIE’S
Dainty Foods Obtainable Everywhere.
Fresh Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Herrings in Tomato Sauce
THE TASTIEST DISHES DURING THE HOT
WEATHER.
No Picnic Complete without Them.
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.


“Puyyaka” on Snakes and Snakebite.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When a man realises that it is a genuine tiger-
snake that he has withdrawn on his finger from a
hollow log, he is apt to do some hard thinking
about snakebite remedies. He has probably read
various wall-placards on the subject, but in the
emergency his ideas of treatment are apt to be
confused with the restoration of the apparently-
drowned and the precautions against typhoid.
* * * *
First, about the snake itself. Australia has
more of the venomous colubrines (with grooved
poison-fangs) than any other country, but only the
larger varieties—black, brown, tiger, &c.— are
imminently dangerous to man. Our one viperine
snake, the death adder (Acanthophis antarctica)
enjoys a great local repute, but there are doubters
who place him below the tiger-snake in lethal
powers. He is a true viper, and the perforated
fang which distinguishes him certainly should
facilitate placing the poison deep in the tissues.
REAL AUSTRALIAN BLOOD.
South Australia likewise contemplates organising
a Gentlemen's corps. Herewith are submitted port-
raits of personages of undisputed rank, to wit —
King Billy, of Mudla Wirra, Port Lincoln
Tommy, Coorong Charlie, Tarcowie Pete, Oodla
Wirra Jacky, and Tommy Walker, who, no doubt,
would, if approached properly, be willing to act as
officers, and so obviate the difficulty which will
undoubtedly crop up of finding persons of suitably
gentle birth willing to fill the mere ranks under the
command of the local Johnny Aitkenses.
The death-adder is also the only viviparous Aus-
tralian snake, all others laying eggs, although in
some cases the young, after hatching, seek safety
in the parental throat, after the fashion of some
species of shark.
* * * *
Snake-poison is probably of almost identical
composition in all species, and is closely similar to
that of various stinging insects, such as the scor-
pion. Taken from a healthy, hungry snake, it is
a clear, yellow fluid, somewhat viscid, and giving
an acid reaction. The taste is mawkish and
faintly acid. Squeezing out the glands of an aver-
age-sized snake may yield up to three-quarters of
a drachm, representing, perhaps, eight or ten effec-
tive bites. The poison is harmless when swal-
lowed (as the gastric juices and the bile speedily
neutralise it) unless there is some breach of surface
in the parts it touches ; but if it remains long in
contact with an ordinary mucous surface (as when
injected into the eye while the snake is being
handled) it may be absorbed and set up severe
effects. The blood of a snake-poisoned animal
produces symptoms when injected into a healthy
one, but the flesh may be eaten with impunity.
* * * *
Snake-poison is, toxicologieally, not a “simple”
poison. It contains at least two active elements,
and closely resembles the poisons produced by
germs in such diseases as diphtheria and septic
trouble. One of these elements causes clotting of
the blood in the vessels, and may be neutralised
by moderate heat. The other (or others) which
affect the heart do not lose their effectiveness
when boiled. Certain substances, however, neu-
tralise one or both of the active principles—and
here we come to some of the so-called “ antidotes.”
A l-in-60 solution of fresh hypochlorite of lime
(“ bleaching-powdor ”) injected into the tissues
around a bite will destroy any venom it meets,
provided it is fresh and contains 80 per cent, of
available chlorine. One per cent, gold chloride
will do the same—permanganate of potash mixed
with snake-venom, outside the body, neutralises
it, and the mixture is harmless on injection ; but
in contact with the body-tissues the permanganate
rapidly loses this power. Hypochlorite of lime is
said to prevent the blood clotting in the vessels,
but experiment has hardly supported the assertion.
* * * *
The risk from snakebite depends upon —(1) the
amount of poison injected (depending usually
on the size of the snake and the fullness of the
glands) the time of j ear ; snakes being most
venomous just after casting their skins ; (3) the
interposition of any material, such as cloth,
which may wipe the poison out of the tooth-
groove ; and (4) the position and depth of the
bite. The depth of bite makes an especial differ-
ence. When a strong snake hangs on to the part,
the poison will probably be injected not merely
into the skin-tissues, but into the loose parts
beneath, or even directly into a.vein, whereby it
will be sent through the body very rapidly. The
mental effect (terror) also plays a great part, as it
seriously lowers the resisting-power.
* * •* *
When the bite is unquestionably that of a
venomous snake (and the orthodox pair of punc-
tures don’t place this at all beyond doubt) certain
tilings should be done, whether an “antidote” is
used or not. Prompt action is essential, in order,
by destroying the poison locally,_ to prevent it
from entering the general circulation. The first
necessity is a ligature on the side next the heart
(the bite being on one of the limbs) twisted hard
with a stick, twitch-fashion. Then cut freely into
the marks, even scooping out a piece a quarter of
an inch or so deep. Suck the wound hard (there
won’t be much blood after the first gush), and if
there is any liquor at hand give it moderately.
Probably half the reputed “snakebite” deaths in
Australia are due to alcoholic poisoning by ener-
getic friends. Washing the wound with hypo-
chlorite of lime or gold-chloride solution, if at
hand, or even with Condy’s fluid, is serviceable.
If the bite is on the face, neck, or body, the liga-
ture is generally difficult to use, although, in a
stout subject, a piece of flesh may be pinched up
and tied. In such a case, it is well to scoop out
the marks and cauterise with a hot
iron, In any case, the victim
should be kept moving and awake.
The writer has a vivid recollection
of walking behind with a bunch of
“prickly Moses” while two men
toiled up-and-down a verandah for
a whole night with a 15st. patient
between them.
* »
As to antidotes—all have their
advocates. Prof. Halford, of Mel-
bourne, injects into a vein 10 or 20
drops of strong ammonia, with
rather more water. It is well to see
that it does go into a vein, other-
wise an abscess will supervene, and
may cause death in any case. The
large vein crossing the bend of the
elbow is the safest, the needle being
run into and along, not through it.
The intention is to stimulate the
heart against tho paralysing part
of the venom. Dr. Mueller, of
Yackandandah (Vic.), working on
the same linos, used strychnine, but,
at the Aus. Med. Congress, in 1892, the
Mueller treatment was shown to give a death-rate
of 13'2 per cent, in 113 cases; while “other
methods” (very vague) yielded a death-percentage
of only I'4 in 313 cases.
* * * *
Calmette's anti-venom serum, however, is the
most practical antidote to date—in the scientific
sense of the word. The manufacture is interest-
ing : Three grammes of dried snake-venom (worth
£6, by the way) are dissolved in 300 cubic centi-
metres of distilled water. Half a cubic centimetre
of the mixture (about eight drops) is injected into
the neck of a healthy young horse, and 15 days
afterwards the dose is doubled; the treatment
proceeding thus, till at the end of a year the horse
can stand 50 cubic centimetres —enough to kill 25
unimmunised horses. After 10 months of this
process the serum is ready, and in two or three
years the horse can stand 100 c.c.’s at a dose.
The immunity is then kept up by quarterly
injections of 100 c.c.’s, and the serum, after
being sterilized, is always obtainable.
A 200,000 unit strength is employed—
i.e., a rabbit into which has been
injected 1-200,000th of its body-
weight of serum will resist a dose of
venom that would otherwise kill it
in 12 hours, and one cubic centi-
metre injected into a vein protects
against a dose that would be fatal
in 40 minutes. In the human sub:
ject, 10 or 20 c.c.’s (three to six
drachms) of the serum is injected
into a vein; other precautions
(ligature, &c.) not being neglected.
Some advise a dose of as much as
seven drachms. There are, as a rule,
no unpleasant effects, although ab-
scess has occasionally resulted. Of
the effects of this serum surgeons in
all parts of the world speak highly,
the bites of the Indian cobra and of
Russell’s viper (previously thought to be
inevitably fatal) having been success-
fully treated with it. lis, therefore, pro-
bable that the Calmette serum will speedil_
supplant all other snakebite-cures ; but too much
stress cannot be laid on the need for the imme-
diate use of ligature and knife, whatever other
remedies may be used afterwards.
One Fenn, lately arrived from Cape Town,
was interviewed by Melb. Argus the other day.
Fenn was in Kimberley during the siege. He
thinks the Boers a bad lot, and has the usual
admiration for the angelic Atkins. A cheerful
item from the interview :—
Another day one of Col. Kekewich’s “ Tommies ” had a
thrilling adventure. In one of the sorties he was about
to take a stray Boer prisoner, when the latter shouted
“Mooney, Mooney!” Tommy Atkins thought the Boer
was asking for his money, and waxed very indignant. The
Boer still went on with his “ Mooney, mooney,” which so
exasperated the “ Tommy ” that, shouting “ I’ll mooney
you,” he thrust his bayonet through the Boer’s body. It
was afterwards explained to the Tommy that the word
“ mooney ” meant mercy.
The Boer prisoners brought in (after days of fight-
ing in mud and dust) were, Mr. Fenn says, “ a
dirty, unkempt lot.” The Boer’s neglect of his
tooth-brush and other toilet requisites when under
fire in the trenches and on the kopjes is gradually
weaning from him the last vestiges of all true
Jingoes’ sympathy.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made'in London.*
25/6
42/-
Any initials in Monogram, as above, 2/6 extra.
THE “ Fx & R ” WATCH.
THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY WATCH OF THE AGE.
THE movements are on the Lever principle.
THEY have BrequfH overcoil balance springs.
THEY are Jewelled in 10 holes.
THEY have compensated and adjusted balances.
THEY have jewel ruby rollers.
THEY are dust-proof and WATERTIGHT.
THE Cases SCREW together.
THEY are specially made to stand rough riding and
knocking about, and go with great accuracy.
THEY are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
(breakages excepted) for 2 years.
THEY are 25/6 each in Oxidised Metal Cases, and
42/- in Solid Silver Cases.
T.IEY are made in every style of case.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A o notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Independence: Half of it is nonsense, and
you’ll have to print it all elsewhere A.M.C. : Tedious
item—with a Moral. We abhor a Moral M.F. :
Genus Verse. Species Villainous. (Too common
for preservation.)... .E.S.W. : Can’t treat the subject in
extenso. The daily papers have been discreetly
silent about the officer and the shooting of that
Kaffir by one of his men, since the private’s letter
got into print. Sydney D.T. would have done better to
let sleeping dogs lie, for its defence is actual worse than
any attack that could have been made Sufferer:
Would strongly recommend you to see an honest expert;
will give you address if you send stamped envelope
Seomo : Who wants to know the opinions of, or hear any-
thing about, politicians of the calibre and surroundings of
Mr. Isaiah Reginald Cohen ? How can anyone of the I.
Reginald Cohen sort ever represent a democratic con-
stituency? Yar.: Turpentine wouldn’t and couldn’t
crumble a man’s bones ; but it would soon smash-up his
kidneys....A.o. : Sydney Exhibition Building would
make a good enough plague-hospital, if you could afford
to burn it down afterwards Fiat J. : Mivart, in fact,
tried to prove that there was no conflict between Religion
and Science ; and Religion, in the guise of the Church,
insisted that there was—even when there was only
Mivart’s emasculated Science in question... .Louis M. :
Your “bud of love” won’t “unfurl” to rhyme with
" girl ” in this garden Scribbler : Your best verse—
B.M. : The rod, red wine and the tawny yellow beer 1
and the verse about ’em that won’t go in here 1
J.0.G.: They are unorthodox, which doesn’t matter at
all, and rather dull, which matters very badly....
B. Bluey : An old bush yarn, which was very good when
it was new. It isn’t too bad now ; the last eight times we
heard it we laughed considerably I.H P. (Auck-
land) : We just love your idea that the “ vegetable
and fruit refuse” of Moore Park tip be used for
pig-feed, &c. In oilier words, that man should eat
.them per medium of pig M.E.G. : “Overheard at
the Theatre” is dull. If you can’t overhear
brighter things than that you should invent them
Why : May be a psychological study, but it isn’t violently
psychological. And subject isn’t big enough to psycholog.
much about.. ..Glengariff: 'Metre staggers a iittle in
places. Has it been drinking more than usual?
Nemo : “ We have a little talent still left in Australia.”
Great Scott 1 Did anybody say we hadn’t? The Aus-
tralian is conceited enough about his country’s
ability to produce pugs and cricketers and rowers.
If he would only realise that it can produce
its own bishops and Appeal - Court Judges and
such-like as well it would be better for him
0.11. R.: “ His H.” is sharply outlined; will print Yar.:
Would rather not print “ Molt.” Carabine : Well done
and would print but that the scene is foreign... ,R. Dong.
(Westralia) : Unconvincing Con. 11. : Strained humor,
very unequally written and weak at finish R.W.H. :
Too insipid—want mote force.... C. F.J.: Not good enough.
Medians : Thanks, but it’s pretty stale news n0w....
Stumper: But you don’t say where you write from.... F.:
Presuming, for the sake of argument, that the alleged
DELIGHT AND ALLOY.
PIIEGAN : “ Your woife's a foine whoman, Regan.
She'd he ’aard to bate.”
Regan : “ Ye're roight, Phegan—but what's one
man's mate's another man's p'ison. Oi wish
she teas aisier to bate.”
“Jockey Quintette” were a positive terror to horse-
owners, why should the owners employ the said terrorise™,
or refrain from taking action to wipe the mannikins out?
There is a certain amount of villainy perpetrated by some
jockeys when they get the chance, but you evidently
don’t know what you are talking about G.H. : Could
only have been made interesting by strongly dramatic
treatment A.M. : Will appear shortly L. 8.: Touch
is good ; may print Vril. : That custom of hornets is
well-known. It is "their sting which product ! catalepsy
in the spiders intended for provisions Clara A.: Hardly
worth print... .D.T’s.: Neither usable.. .Pan.: None up
Bill Oxman : A pinch for stale news....W. Brenta : Will
print P.M.O L.M.G.M.: To hand.... J.A.G. (Thargo.):
You throw no new light on the subject Bert Nebe :
We have no means of verifying it.... Ben S. : “Magee”
shows your usual good “ lilting ” power—marred by occa-
sional atrociously bad lines....Juncus: One will do,
entirely re-worded Oit: Nothing in ’em
E.M.D. : Not up to our mark —2nd verse especi-
ally rocky Constance S. : May trim and use.
..!. Wooli: Good. Any other results of your obser-
vation acceptable C.H.D. ; The effort to be funny
should never be visible Yarrum : That restaurant-yarn
is a bad variant on a gag already printed.. : Hogan's G. :
Please don’t run all your items into one in such a puzzling
fashion. We have no time for laborious disentanglement,
Bluey: Don’t write on both sides of the paper.
Sketch may possibly be trimmed and used 1.H.5.:
There is humor in it, but it would need too much fixing-
up R.C.: The trail of the other fellow is over them
all A.L.P.: The war can only end in one way. The
Boers with two pieces left on the checker-board are play-
ing Britain with eight or ten.. Wallaroo : Sorry—not skill
enough... .Rhine V.: Fair ideas ; not strength enough in
treatment. But keep on Ben Sun, also Jack Shay ;
Better let the lady score.... M. 8.: Off our beat H. 8.5.:
IN TOWN.
(Two country yokels, one discovers the moon.)
No. 1: “Say, Rill, there's the mune.”
No. 2: “ Yes; zackly like our mune up country,
ain't it, Tom? ”
Not up.. . .Roughrider : Far too long and lumbering.. ..
Wil. J. : Possibly one—you’re improving C.P.Q.O. :
Flat Violotte : Conventionally sentimental James
T.W.: No skill of presentation in either... .Romany: Not
a bad idea, but it needs more vivid handling 0.A.8. :
Both returned.... Plymouth S. : Capital joke; but to
illustrate it would bo too rough on religious sensibilities
Ross R.: Amounts only to a cold, bald inference that
something “ improper ” took place... .T.G.F.: Your soul-
ful lines :
....Judas J.: Not good enough.... R.T. : “Our home
beyond the skies.” All flies T.... Father John: Mere
lunacy R.F.S. : Two lines of Solomonic wisdom—
And the pleasures of the goblet bring a bad taste in
thejnom.
A spring bed and plenty victuals don’t make life all
beer and skittles—
Then you fade away R.A. : Will possibly use “ Work
of Two Mordaunt: We won’t “ double him up.” We
rather like a little thing like that... .Rough-rider : Wrong
on one point. “ Saltbush Bill’s Second Fight ” wasn’t
published in Bulletin L.B. : “Teranpo” is rather a
slender trifle. Not much novelty or energy about any
of them.
Recent geological researches prove that
hippopotami, rhinoceroses, elephants, and such
big game, existed before historic time all over tho
site of Rome, the Oampagna being a favorite
jungle. How science turns the flank of all our
ideas ! Romulus and Remus become painfully
modern.
In Queensland, recently, a country domes-
tic, having seen her mistress write out a cheque,
asked if that was all that was necessary to obtain
money from the bank, and was told it was. A
few days later the ingenuous damsel abstracted a
form from the cheque-book, filled it up for £5 55.,
attached a signature, and presented the document,
undated, at the bank. She was, of course, de-
tained ; but, at the police-court, discharged, as
having been unaware she was committing any
offence.
Auckland (M.L.) has the same old garbage
tip—‘the tip is a chronic trouble in these regions—
and it has just gained the additional knowledge
that large numbers of pigs are habitually fattened
on the gruesome mound. Which recalls that one
of the great wants of every Australian city is a
place where veritable dairy-fed pork—pork that
has never tasted offal—can be bought. For such
an establishment, run with absolute honesty by
men in whom the public believe, there is a fortune
in every capital.
One cannot on a penny roll
Breathe aught to animate the soul,
If only water crown the bowl,
The verse is cold and dribulous ;
Behold the swallower of beer,
He sings—each breast disdains all fear,
Again lie sings—and draws the tear,
Oh sweet—from being bibulous.
They stood for the last time together ;
lie whispered—" Farewell !~do not cry I”
She smiled with a face hard as leather,
And answered—“ Why, hang it I — l'll try 1”
Kruger and His Thumb.
CHARACTERISTIC STORY OF OOM PAUL
The Boer President is universally regarded as a
“tough nut” to crack, and even Britain may
well exercise caution in dealing with a man of the
iron will exhibited in a story told by a contem-
porary. One day whilst shooting, the Boer Presi-
dent had part of his thumb blown off. The sur-
geon advised amputation of the arm, but Kruger
said no. Then he suggested the hand should be
removed, but as Kruger still said no, he threw up
the case. The patient thereupon sharpened his
knife, and with spartan courage cut off the top of
his thumb, and the wound healed. Thus his hand
was spared. Although operations often prolong
life they are sometimes ill advised. Another in-
stance is that of Mrs. Lois Stratford. Mrs.
Stratford resides at Millicent, and is only 20.
When asked for information she said : “For three
years 1 suffered srreatly from internal troubles.
The doctor said I would have to go under an
operation. I would not consent to this although
I suffered greatly from headaches, weakness, loss
of appetite, dizziness and sickness. I noticed Dr.
Williams’pink pills advertised and I decided to
try them. After taking four boxes a great im-
provement was noticeable, and six boxes entirely
cured me. I am now bright and active, able to
undertake my household duties without distress,
and my improved appearance is further, pleasing
evidence of my recovery. J can walk ten miles a
day now without any trouble.”
Mrs. Stratford did well in not consenting to an
operation, for Dr. Williams’ pink pills cured her
pleasantly and completely because they act upon
the cause of disease, removing its foundations, en-
riching the blood, and retoning the nerves. Thus
they cure anaemia, debility, liver troubles, sleep-
lessness, heart palpitation, consumption, bronchitis,
coughs and colds, erysipelas, rickets, St. Vitus'
dance, paralysis, locomotor ataxia, etc. Sold by
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place,
Sydney, two and nine per box, and by chemists
and storekeepers—But mind you ask for Dr.
Williams’.*


A LATCH-KEY FOR AUSTRALIA.
"LONDON.-PUNCH publishes a cartoon relerring so Clause 74 in the Australian Commonwealth Bill. The cartoon depints an Australian girl asking Britannia for a latch-key labelled 'More freedom, and shows Britannis gracefelly to the request, saying 'If anyone
is to be trusted it is you.'"-CABLE.
"The Chief Justions of N.S. Wales and S.A. have protested in England against the abolition of the Prity Council appeal."-CABLE.
FUSAY OLD LADY: "I Wouldn't let her have the key if I were you; the's given to flirting with a young man of the name of Independence, who's always Kanging about-and a latch-key might be the rain of her!"


Handicapped from the Start
Judge C**y boat oT the Me*
Europe hy the Villede 1*
Wries on May "•
Ciotat, wtocb lea’’ 63
Three
o guin 10 y pa ,<l niw
absence. »» F
and V ra "
revile
r \\ fk»7ce, Jl H/leVf"<J.e
fcto.Y’i/ei'' vfcus '|>ottY' | (L
(*4ro|»s u?fo ly tyisiSXe)
l5 it; \ "
••To-day is the anniversaryJbf
death, which took place on 23id Apn,
Tradition has it that bis birth took place on 2Jrd
April, 1564, old style, which ~ n^" n< ?» t °^ ur
6th May, but thre is uncertain. Melb. >- RALU
X*g-1 '^W
Orkvd-o. 6335.
r\ 1 J ;-lTs 4e *wi*f**y
OrW ofVfc^rr
V** p^afK o * 1A
vSt-* c ? «,-,r’ "*
fpp.Cfi^Aftl^We
oi? 4y e
SlocK hc)w%
pi
fa
Poovv7 ]
in itf
Just"
*)°7 I
Sr^ : iu m S th »° n s
l Ur "Bainst Sir Afulco/ >n< L Sc,lr ' ; 'I’er< 1 ’ er <
I Ur. Ore fsWclJ> . colm M'Eacharn
I„ e “ramittce of the nr h " ,rem^r a 0 f
\°‘ Kahes u «ww.
?ostage-
•too lhc ,Mrf-
fi dcT>ut*t'““> ‘"tjcity,
bourne ©*»£ oM^' n * »«f„ yc*«t-
C^ lheCO ' OnT
fr'j G
tI&K.
_T V \j <li<l y°g- vt"w&£
? 1
M’&fWn;: - Quee*? yiafyoy-
d-7 JaWfce kj'ecTTo^Dy^
, 1 , 4tos|»itaJr . ,
Nouve^ic-.—‘"Well.l*7 «7of>urKis«s>;
THE LICENSING-LAW IN MELBOURNE.
PIWT : " Do yer know, Muffer, where we can get a Sunday-night beer 1 *
Mdtfbb : “ Naw, I don’t know this bloomin’ street—let us follow tin
blanky copper.”
MELBOURNIAN A.


/
SAUNDERS
817 CEQRGES T
SYDNEY
BIS
pa
/
A. SAUNDERS.
Reliable LEVERS. “ The Challenge," IBs ; Un-
rivalled, 20s. ; Pure Silver, 355. (All guaranteed.)
50.,!. UI LKIU..ICI KIS,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold,
£5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure
Silver, 10s, 12s Od, Ills, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Hook.
Gold 2 Birds, Chain and Heart. Full Size
10s, small 8s Od.
Gold Brooch, 5s (id. Special value.
I
%
/
N
pmoRBTi 8Z BYDHM
i==3
\
A. SAI’NDKIiS. .
London Levers 255, Pure Silver £2 ss. Hunting
Oases, £2 10s, £3. Written guarantee.
Send for Price List.
A SAtTN TIERS.
New Gold i-Rar Pearl Set. and Red Stone Scroll
Ati.y Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra strong, l Os.
15c. Gold 15s ; 18c. Gold 20s. Silver 3s 6d.
Gold Good Luck and Bird Brooch, 10s fld
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Wish Bone and Pearl and Tunjuobs
Bee, 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
GPRSI
Gold 3-Bar and Red Stone Brooch, 18s.
Verv Veat.
mflm
FRONT STUDS. 9c. Gold, 8s 6d audios.
3 Front, 15c. Gold, 12s 6d and 15s.
Send for List.
A S v .. , ,t£vr).
New Model W»ierOur>. | pi*»e. Chronometer
Balance, Jewelled, ids 6d ; Silver, 35s ; Gold,
£2 16s. Xheee Prices are Specially Reduced.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold New Secret Name Brooch, 3 Diamonds,
£3; Diamond and 2 Rubies, £2 IDs , Cheaper
Style, 255. Any Name FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered 15c. Gold Key, Heart & Ivy Brooch,
35s ; 18c. Gold, £2 ss. The Very Latest.
A. OAI .\DERS.
Registered 9c. Gold Amethyst Brooch,
17s tid , 15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 85s.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
15c. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies, with
Ivy Leaves, 265. Very Cheap.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and
Heart Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
15c. Gold Wish Bone Forget-me-not
Brooch, 15s. Special Value.
CHARM.
Gold Mizpah, 4*.
CTH ARM-
Gold, Amethyst,
and Pearls, 15* 6d;
15c. Gold, 25a.
Latest Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget
Brooch, log fid. Owr
own Registered
Design.
A. SAUNDERS
Gold Charm, 10s.
Very Latest.
CHARM.
Gold Wish Bone
and Heart or
Horseshoe, is.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM. Oold, with
Enamelled Post
Office, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Charm Envelope
with Twopenny
Stamp, 12s 6d.
Name Free.
A.SAUNDERS
CHARM, New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d
Special Reduced
Gold Trilby Rings,
5s «d , «nth Ame-
thyst, 7» fid , with-
out Cham, 8s fid.
Gunt Bell aud Chains,
U Od Ss 6d 2s 6d.
\ I
- :
gN&S
A. SAUNDERS.
SPECIAL MADE ROTHERHAM LEVERS,
Full Cap, £3 10s : Extra Jewelled Chronomoter
Balance, £4 10s ; Keyless Full Cap, £5.
Send for 1900 List. All Guaranteed.
A. SAu... v aubnt).
Ladies’ Waterbury Watch, Keyless,
18s 6d ; Pure Silver, 30s ; Gold, £2 15s.
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Link, 2Us; 15c. Gold
85a. Silver, 4a.
i
A. S.VuWDERS.
Registered Gold Good Wish Brooch,
13s (id ; 15c. Gold, 255. Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band, Opal
17s (id ; 15c. Gold, 30s
18c. Gold, £2.
Send for Size Card.
Ooui Heart & Dunibell Links,
154 s Bd , 16c., 25s ; Silver, 3s (id
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style Gold Links, Extra
Strong and Heavy, 22s Cd ; 15c.
Solid Gold, £2 28. Silver, 4s 6d.
A Strong Reliable Link.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Shield & Dumbed Links,
9c. Gold, 21s ; 15c. Gold, 355.
Silver, 4s 6d.
a. saunders.
Solid Gold Links, 18s 6d, 20s,
255, 355, £2, £2 10s.
Monogram, 2s 6d Extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Gold 1900 Pearl & Diamond Brooch, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, 7 Opals, 14 Pearls, 355.
Bracelets to Match, £2 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird Chain and Heart Brooch, 7s 6d.
Special Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Butterfly Brooch, Pearls, Red or
Blue Stones, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Erin-Go-Bragh B oach, 17s 6d
15c. Cold, 30s ; 18c. G jld, 355.
a
A SAUinDERS.
New Gold Century Brooch, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Diamond Brooch, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
ls c. Gold, 3 Pure I ia-
jPonds, 2 Opal Hearts,
£ i 10s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 6 Opals,
J-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS. '
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies or Opals, 4 Dia-
monds, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £5. .
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
monds, and 2 Rubies or
Sapphires, Buckle,
£2 10s.
fir*
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
mond Band, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15c. Gold, 30s.
18c. Solid Gold, Extra
Strong and Heavy, one
or three Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Solid Gold Chain
Rings, 15s, 20s, 30s, £2.
Price to Quality of Gold.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15c., 30s, 35s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
CITARM, Latest Gold Rose,
Shamrock & Thistle, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Old English
Coin, Gold Mounted,
10s.
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain Snap Padlock,
255. 30s, 355, £2 6s, £3;
15c., £2 108, £3, £4,
£4 108, £5, £6, £lO.
10s. Extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Keyless Waltham, J-plate, Patent Cases,
£4 4s ; 14c. gold, £5 5s ; Extra Quality, £7 10s,
£lO ; 18c. Gold, £l2 10s. Solid Silver, £2 10s,
£3, £4, £5. We give a Guarantee Certificate.
A. SAi > DERS.
Registered Gold 2-Hird 2-Heart Amethyst
lirooch, 20s ; l’earl Set liird, 22s (id ;
15ct. Gold, £2.
m
m
MIZR
A. SAUNDERS.
Ivy Leaf Gold Mizpah Urooch, 12s 6d
Silver, Is 6d.
I
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 ids £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Rone Heart and Arrow, with
Red Stone, 12s Od.
Our Newest Gold Rird and Bell, 6s 6d
Amethyst, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, Pure Double-cut
Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, ±6 6s, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
"• Saunders.
Kand-made Wedding Kings and Keepers. 9c
Solid Gold, 5s 6d, 7s «,!, l l(s each • v '; (t u
l Ss ■ «tra heavy, 2&) : U-. W. , ' 2 L eT a
heavy, 30s, 355, 40*. Send for .-aril
A. SAUNDERS.
New Sword and Australian Enamelled Flag Brooch, 20s.
Ours is the Australian Flag.
Call and See our Jewellery Exnibltion — A Special Easter Show or Send for jjur i9oo_ Complete illustrated Book
1 - ■ ■■ ——— .POST FREE ANYWHERE. >, i^
A. SAUNDERS
Leading Art Jeweller,
815 $ 817 George St.,
NEARLY
OPPOSITE
RAILWAY
BTATION,
'fiaupßS


IT WAS NOT THE CLIMATE.
“I have been well as to my general health so
wrote the late Dr. 0. W. Holmes a short time
before his death —but have had a good deal ot
asthma The climate is cold and rough, but I have
found much that is delightful about my residence
here in Boston (America). Perhaps, after alb tho
fault is not so much in latitude 42 as in age 82.
That was it. The wise thinker did not deceive
himself. He knew that it is the wasting muscles
that complain of the steepness of the hills and the
thinning blood that fancies the winters are colder
t han they used to be. r , ,
And it was not because Mrs. Amy Harvey had
lost interest in her domestic affairs that she was
led to say everything was a trouble and a burden.
Xo; it was because she had lost her strength.
Whether a duty is a burden or not depends on the
back which has to carry it. Ah, dear me, how
constantly experience enforces that lesson upon us.
Then what keen concern we feel in the answer
to the question : What will strengthen quivering
limbs ? What will restore the vigour of the mind ?
“All my life,” says Mrs. Harvey, “I have
suffered off and on from indigestion and weakness.
I felt low and languid, with a disagreeable,
sinking sensation after taking my meals. I had no
energy ; everything was a trouble and a burden.
As soon as I had partaken of food, no matter how
light, I felt a fullness and a gnawing pain at my
chest, as if something were tearing it.
“ I also suffered much from nervous headache
and was often dizzy. My breathing was short, and
and if I exerted myself I was out of breath. As
time went on I got extremely weak and could not
attend to my work.
“ I saw doctor after doctor and was told by them
that my ailment was owing to my food not
digesting.”
[The doctors were right. That was the trouble,
and the only one. Yet, instead of being a com-
parative trifle, as many shallow persons say, it is
the most serious of all diseases. Of course some of
her food digested more or less fully, otherwise she
could not have lived a fortnight. But the nourish-
ment was never enough for the wants of the body.
Hence the nervous headaches, the asthma, the
sinking sensation, the dizziness, the gnawing pain,
and the disabling weakness. The body under
these conditions is like a house abandoned to
decay. All gone to raqk and ruin.]
“ I took the doctors’ medicines,” continues this
lady’s plain account, “but my case was an obstinate
one, and none of them seemed of any avail. •
“In May, 1891, a neighbour told me of the
benefit she had derived from Mother Seigel’s
Syrup. I got a bottle from Messrs. W. Fox and
Sons, Chemists, Bethnal Green, and when I had
taken it two days I felt much relief. I continued
taking it, and could eat and enjoy my food without
having pain. I now gained strength and felt
brighter than I had ever done in my life.
“ Since then I have kept well, taking a dose or
two of Mother Seigel’s Syrup when I need it; and
I find it always puts me right. You can publish
this statement if you think fit. (Signed) (Mrs.)
Amy Harvey, 19, ‘J’ Block, Dufferin Street, Bun-
hill Row, London, June 26th, 1896.”
“In March, 1894,” writes another, “I had a
severe attack of influenza which left me extremely
weak. I was troubled witli indigestion and want
of appetite. Having read of the wonderful cures
made by Mother Seigel’s Syrup I decided to try it.
I got a bottle from Mr. Win. Hy. Jones, the
chemist in Caledonian Road. In two days I felt
great benefit. I could eat, and food agreed with
me, causing no pain. In a few days I teas com-
pletely cured and well as ever.
“ Since that time I have kept Mother Seigel’s
Syrup in the house as a family medicine, and it
always relieves when any of us suffer from indiges-
tion, &c. I have pleasure in making this statement
and you can publish it if you wish. (Signed)Geo.
H. Barker, 44 Montpelier Road, Kentish Town,
London, N.W., June 9th, 1896.”
These excellent letters call for no explanation.
Their sincerity and truth is plain on the surface.
And when we remember that what the writers
affirm of Mother Seigel’s Syrup is also declared by
thousands of others, the value of this remedy is
established beyond question.
Concerning “ Bull-Punchers.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Eleven industrious bullocks and a heart-broken,
fence-breaking yellow bull, who has seen better
days, constitute the team. Bully is always placed
in an excellent position in the team, and being an
important personage he gets blamed for every-
thing ; when the waggon bogs up to the axle, the
loving master always makes for him with the up-
raised whip. “ It’s you, yer yellow ! Why
the don’t yer keep over ? ” And so on,
ad lib. And the gentleman who was brought up
in the respectable surroundings of a dairy-herd
has to answer for the lot. The waggon is
always a second-hand one; perhaps the wheels
are new and the body old, or vice verm.
The brake is generally defective (“ever since she
run over th’ noo qpttin’ ”)—on hard, going up-hill
and down-hill —it won’t act at all, and lets the
waggon run away with the bullocks. The tyre on
one of the wheels is always loose, and the team is
stopped every mile or so to tap it on, or peg it up
with an axe. A dog of no particular breed is tied
with a rope under the waggon, and for the first
Eart of the journey always hangs back and yelps ;
y then his feet are half worn away, and he begins
to pull all he knows in the right direction, limping
painfully. A small bay horse, showing plenty of
rib and shoulder-blade, is moored with a huge
chain around his neck to the pole at the rear.
Every time the waggon stops he dozes, and isn’t
awakened until the waggon, starting again, gives
him a tremendous tug. The result of this con-
stant jerking of the primitive towing arrangement
is that the horse’s neck is stretched right out of
Sortion, so that on first sight he looks like a
1 giraffe, and when he grazes he cannot get his
head up level again unless some one lifts it. When
at perfect rest the head hangs across the top-rail
of an obliging fence.
* * * •
“ Your bullocks don’t look too well,” I once re-
marked to a lanky bullock-driver; “how’s the
grass on the road ? ” “Ain’t none !” he drawled.
“ Was goin’ to bring some corn-’usks for feed, but
left ’em b’ind. I’ll bo ’ome, any’ow, arfter ’mor-
row ; they’ll get w’ips then.” A big roan bullock
in the load hero turned round, and as much as
said (by his looks), “Oh, what a thundering he !”
“ Hurry up, now, and get the corn horf 1 ” said
another to me, one very hot day. “I got to got
back to the Black Water’oles (12 miles out) to give
’em a drink. Aint ’ad any since dinner-time yes-
terday ! ” “Why,” I replied, “take your team
up the road here 200 yards, and they can drink
the Hunter dry, if they like.” “Too far;
I’m in a ’urry ! ” And, when unloaded, he went
pubwards, leaving his parching bullocks standing
in the yard till near dusk, when ho started for the
Holes. This sort of teamster (and there are scores
of him) ought to be toiling on a treadmill.
• • • •
The bed and tucker-box always accompany the
bulloeky, and when the waggon is being unloaded
they are roughly thrown overboard. The above-
mentioned dog takes charge of the former, and the
latter generally manages to get in front of one of
the wheels, so that, when the bullocks make a
move on their own responsibility, the box and
contents are badly crushed and battered. And
as the blue-faced owner scrapes the damper, beef,
and home-made jam off the wheel and tries to
straighten his billy and frying-pan, his tongue
remains paralysed for the time, on account of the
strength of language that he is unable to give off.
Remonstrate with a bullock-driver for cruelty
to his wretched animals, and you will always get) ,
the same drawling answer —“ That’s all right,
mister 1 These blauky bullocks is mine! ”
A.A.A.
At Cole’s Arcade, Melbourne. Country
S arson walks up to desk and asks for a copy of
locking’s “All Men are Liars.” “ Half-a-crown
or three-and-sixpenny ? ” enquires the attendant.
“ Three-and-six, please,” replies parson. “ Jim ! ”
shouts assistant to occupant of next desk. “ One
copy, ‘ All Men are Liars ’ in cloth ! ”
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
HAVE you
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
P. re >s .your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you Pave poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the Joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the sk m
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for 1 ( AN
CURE YOU. 1 don't say perhaps ; but 1 WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles. Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/Rd. per b»*x. Prepared by
A 1 BERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents: ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green lalel on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Just a Cough
This is its story:
At first, a slight cough.
At last, a hemorrhage.
At first, easy to cure.
At last, extremely difficult.
s
cherry.
pectoral
quickly conquers your hack-
ing cough. There is no doubt
about the cure now.
For over half a century
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
been curing colds and coughs
and preventing consumption.
Put up in large and small bottles.
A cure is hastened by plac-
ing over the chest one of
Dr. Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral Plasters.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
tor
Dock Shootidg*
always use
CANNONITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried Used Always.
CASHMORE GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS
GAME BAGS, GUN CASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
Itacltham’s Day and Cattle
Medicines .
SOLE AGENTS-
nidEM bros. > ricc. w.
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne*
And George Street,
Sydney*
ladies’ Tailoring
Season—l9oo.^
HAVING made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring' Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Lady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming Mai I boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
■M—Pat€i)t sb€€p-Brai)dii)g Liqtiid
(guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting Brand; withstand all Bain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grimwade & Go
MELBOURNE.
Agents-E. rich & CO. LTD
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Black, Rod, axrd. Blue. 3s 6dL per gall, in Melt*, and Sydney; 3s 9d per S all * ln Brisbane.
INDIGESTION * EMACIATION
A Queensland Tribute.
T-TTTT! DOCTOR ORDERED HIM to T_A_:ki:E3 CLEMENTS TONIC.
He Obeyed and has Cause to be Thankful*
The Case of
MR. JAMES STEPHEN POTTER
(by our special reporter )
In consequence of information received
the other morning, our reporter drove to
Mount Joy-street, South Brisbane. It did
not take long to find Mr. James Stephen
Potter, who is we 1 and favourably known
in that portion of Queensland’s capital city.
Sitting under the front \erandah of the
house, the following conversation ensued,
and was faithfully taken down in the
newspaper man’s note look.
“You have been ill, I am informed?”
was the first question.
“Yes,” replied Mr. Potter; “I suffered
from indigestion and a wasting away of my
flesh. I couldn’t manage my meals, and it
has always been a bad sign with me when
my appetite goes off. A most unpleasant
and bitter taste was always on my tongue
and the roof of my mouth. I had a dull
feeling in.thehead, and,generally speaking,
t was all cut of order, and when I went
up to be examined by the doctor for the
friendly society, of which I wished to
become a member, that medical man refused
to me. The nature of my employment
causes me considsrable confinement, And I
thought, perhaps, want of exercise was the
cause of my illness. I now started with
dumb-bell exercise, and persisted in that for
some time, but all this was a 3 useless as the
physio I took. I began to fall away in
flesh. I couldn’t sleep at night, but lay
in bed awake three partffof my time longing
for the morning light, and when tho day
returned I felt dull, depressed, and weary,
and quite unfit to tackle the duties of the
day.”
“ How long did all this last ? ”
“ Oh, for some weeks. I was getting
about tired of it. I grew weaker aud
thinner all the time.”
“ What were the doctor’s orders ? ”
“ The doctor’s orders were to take Cle-
ments Tonic, and 1 only wish I had known
about the recuperative powers of that
remedy when I first fell ill Not to take op
your time too much, I may tell you that I
purchased some Clemeuts Tonic, and at
about the same time I read an account of
the case of a man that was cured of indiges-
tion in a Brisbane paper. I noticed with
some interest that the symptoms described
in the newspaper paragraph were very
similar to those that affected me. I
started taking Clements Touio as the
doctor had ordered. In two or three days*
time I found a marked difference in
my health. I once had a feeling of
heaviness in the chest after eating-
This I now found was giving way
under the influence of the Clements
Tonic. I soon found that my suffer-
ings were being cured just in the
way that I had read of in the newspaper.
Then as to appetite. Whereas once I could
hardly look at food, and only made a light
meal now and then, I now found 1 was
getting quite an appetite and always came
quite hungry to my meals. My food now
had quite a different taste', and was no
longer a weight upon my chest making me
heavy, tired, and drowsy in the day time,
but nourished me and gave me strength and
vitality.”
“ How did you get on ?”
“ Splendidly. I continued the doses of
Clements Tonic, and soon lost all the
disagreeable symptoms of my malady.
Once more I slept a wholesome, dreamless
sleep, and awoke refreshed and cheerful in
the morning ready for my day’s duties.”
“ Did you gain admission to the club ? ”
“ Yes ; I went before the doctor again
and he passed nn immediately, and. con-
gratulated me on my recoTery. I am as
sound as a ovllj and my digestion is in
perfect order now, the credit for which is
due to Clements Tonic. lam pleased tot
know that if anything ever gees vi rong with
me in future that I have a remedy at hand
that will put me right.”
“ With your permission I shall publish
this interview ?”
“ Certainly ; you have my full permis-
sion,” said Mr. Potter, shaking hands and
bidding good-day.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, James Stephen Potter, of Mount Joy-street,
South Brisbane, in the Colony of Queensland, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting of
three folios and consecutively numbered from one
to three, and that It contains ai d is a true and
faithful account of my illness and cure by Clemen s
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to
publish the same in any way ; and 1 make this
solemn declaration, voluntarily and without receiv-
ing any payment, conscientiously believing the same
to°be true, and by virtue of the provisions of iM
Oa'ht Act, 1867."
Declared at South Brisbane this 15th day of July,
one thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine, befor*
me, THUS. HEAH.OP, J.P.


POLITICAL
POINTS
Three “ Royal ” Commissions are now
touring Queensland, and two more are coming.
“ App'int Maloney ! ”■
Do the numerous N.S.W. civil servants
(many of them) who have gone to fight the Boers
draw civil service as well as military pay ?
Vic. Premier M‘Lean bends lower and
lower under the burden of State. If the plague
strikes Melbourne, it is long odds on his Ministry
being the first victim.
At a recent meeting ( ,f Hackney (Lon.)
Liberals there were loud cheers when Birrell
r ?“f rked th at the great trouble when the
South African war is over will be “ to keep the
Johannesburg capitalists, swollen with insolence
in their proper place.”
Rumor hath it that J. R. Dickson will
remain at ’Ome ensconced snugly in the Agent-
Generalship, the only ’Orace returning to take a
place, in Parliament—possibly the Premiership.
Bananaland grins expectantly, for it hears, ni
imagination, th*» whistling of ’Orris’s long bow in
the distance.
Agent-General Reeves writes to his Maori-
land friends that the English newspapers are full
of the grossest exaggerations concerning the war.
Has he seen any of the Australian papers, whose
earners send the cream of the exaggerations and
none of the occasional unvarnished facts appearing
in the London press ?
S.A. Leg. Council elections promise to be
very dull in Kingston’s absence. The ex-Pre-
mier meant to make those contests a battle-ground
for Household {suffrage, but the campaign is, so
far, utterly spiritless. Kingston’s manifesto is
now on the way out, and it is to be hoped there is
gall m it, for the sake of old times.
S.A. goes on extending its system of
homestead blocks—the plan under which working
men may make homes and part incomes for them-
selves near the larger centres of population. A
portion of the Angas Estate, just outside Adelaide,
has lately been bought at public auction, and now
the Department is bargaining for some of the pick
of the wonderfully rich south-eastern potato land.
As regards the weird decision of Mel-
bourne City Council to reject a German tender at
£17,000 for electric-lighting machinery, and to
accept a British tender of £22,000 (by way of
showing that the Council approves of the war in
South Africa)_ —how will it be should it turn out
that the English firm which gets the contract is
strongly pro-Boer ? The Melb. Council, in its
haste to throw away £5OOO of other people’s money
to show its personal Jingoism, never stopped to in-
quire whether the tenderers were Jingo or not.
Meanwhile if the Queen, who is to all intents and
purposes wholly German, hears of this indirect
aspersion on her countrymen, she will doubtless
be pleased.
A REUNION.—IN SHEOL.
WIFEUS: “ Oh! you monster. Bo you put my correct age on the tombstone !”
A very dull member of N.S.W. Parliament,
Mr. David Davis, who has been drawing his Par-
hamentary salary during the recess of the past
five months, will not alone continue to draw it in
this holiday fashion, but has just started on a six.
months leave of absence from the Water and
Sewerage Board, the salary as a member of which
he will, in similar holiday fashion, pleasantly
pocket.
Martin Basedow, editor of the locally-
influential S. A. German newspaper, drops out of
Parliament after 24 years. His Zeitun.g occasion-
ally printed the opinions of well-informed Ger-
mans about the Jingo business in South Africa,
and this the local Jingoes resented with all their
teeth and claws. So Basedow, instead of allowing
the Leg. Council voters to defeat him, withdrew
his candidature.
According to the latest view expressed by
that great and truthful military expert, the cable,
it is now the Boer women who are responsible for
certain unspecified atrocities perpetrated upon
unknown wounded soldiers in unmentioned places
° n jj f battle.” This is probably in-
tended to bring peace of mind to those weaklings
who recoil at the idea of the enemies’ women being
disembowelled per bayonet in the trenches.
Grainger, M.P., who has always shown a
great personal animus against ex-Premier King-
ston, is trying to persuade the people of the S.A.
> outhern district that Kingston is ineligible for
election to the Council, because his position as
r edcral delegate in London is tantamount to an
office of profit under the Crown. Neither Deakin
j ’ ? 10r , ckson (Q.) resigned his seat, however,
and these both get more money than Kingston.
Although South Australia has been a con-
firmed Protectionist province ever since 1887
when the present tariff was imposed, it is likely
that four of its six Federal House of Representa-
tives members will be Freetraders. These are
Premier Holder, President Chaffey Baker, Paddy
Glynn, and Symon, Q.C. The wobblesome Play-
foid once coquetted with Freetrade, but, as he is
the father of the 1887 tariff, it is presumed that he
is still on that side of the fence.
A question for the politicians who con-
template anti-indecency legislation: Is it or is it
not as demoralising to the community for a news-
paper to print extended detailed reports of the
proceedings in incest, abortion and rape cases as
for the same newspaper to print advertisements of
remedies for the cure of certain diseases ? And,
if it isn t, why isn’t it ? In a word, is it possible
for a newspaper to print acres of beastliness
(always a safe draw) for the public good ?
In 1899, according to Coghlan, the best
increase of population was in Tasmania (2‘BB per
cent.) ; Queensland (2.31 per cent.) was second;
Maoriland (1*75 per cent.) third ; Westralia (172
per cent.) fourth; and after these four Protection-
ist provinces came N.S.W. (171 per cent.).
South Australia and Victoria brought up the rear,
so the solitary Foreign-trade province only
managed to get fifth place among seven. Taking
the increase of population for the last eight years,
Westralia has the largest percentage, Tasmania is
second, Queensland, third, Maoriland fourth,
N.S.W. fifth, S.A. sixth, and Victoria seventh.
The Sydney Labor light—one of the
M'Laurin, Dibbs, Want and Co. anti-Federal
spouters—who argues in Sydney D.T. that “ bar-
rister ” (which he wasn’t) A. G. Taylor’s success-
ful appeal to the Privy Council proves the neces-
sity of continuing that tribunal’s present relation
to Australia, forgets that N.S.W. Supreme Court
had previously found in favor of Taylor. It was
against the N.S.W. Supreme Court decree that
that appeal to the P. C. was made. The existence
of the Privy Council as an appeal court simply
retarded for a very long time the justice that
Taylor would otherwise have got almost imme-
diately.
Since Kingston’s Household Suffrage
scheme was beaten last Dec., S.A. has had three
new proposals. Solomon’s £2O franchise scheme
was promptly thrown out in the Assembly, and the
Holder Government then proposed a £l5 scheme
which the Tory Council rejected. Now Holder
goes for enfranchising man and wife occupying a
two-roomed house, an obvious sop for the country
constituencies.. Meantime, Kingston is certain to
stick to his original scheme (his manifesto is on
the vvay out) and the Liberal party is in danger
therefore, of being split into two camps at the
approaching Council elections.
If N.S.W. Govt, does not promptly table
resolutions reducing the number and emoluments
of members of the Leg. Assembly, several private
members are prepared to spring definite motions
on the matter. One motion likely to receive con-
siderable support proposes to reduce the members
to 60 at £2OO a year, and the Ministers to five,
one (the Premier) to receive £lOOO, and four £BOO.
The salary reductions will be claimed on the
ground that members and Ministers are almost all
holders of other profitable occupations. And yet
while an assurance office gives its manager
£2OOO or £3OOO a year for life to manage the con-
cerns of a few thousand policy-holders, what folly
it is to expect a really good man to give his life to
politics on the chance of being allowed for a few
years to manage even the local affairs of 1| million
people for £lOOO a year, with the prospect of sack
any moment !
Launceston Examiner (Tasmania) thinks
it sees a beautiful and simple way out. When the
British Government has amended clause 74
(the Privy Council appeal clause) of the Com-
monwealth Constitution, instead of sub-
mitting the whole amended bill to the
people, it says, let that one amended
clause be submitted to the people.
Which is much the same as suggesting
that Fysh’s head and feet should stand
for Parliament separately so that the
people could elect one end of him if
thej’ wanted to, and reject the other
end. If the people reject the Bill
because the new clause is in it the
Bill is Lost. And if they reject
the new clause separately the
Bill is Lost also, for the trouble
can only arise if the British
Government refuses to have
the Bill without the new clause.
If Fysh’sbody and legs are made
life-members of Parliament and
only his. head has to go for re-
election it lqay make things look
easier, but if Fysh’s head is
rejected he will be just as much
out as if he was all rejected.
Sydney is full of back
lanes that belong to nobody,
are cleaned by nobody, and
for which nobody is res-
ponsible. A builder made a
lane or narrow street to give
access to some property. He
madeitanyhowhepleased. Then
the City Council refused to take
it over or recognise it, because it
wasn’t made the right
way. The result is that
it is no man’s land, and
its cleansing is as ut-
terly neglected and ig-
nored as if it was in
Timbuctoo. One much-
needed reform is a law
compelling the councils
—city and suburban—
to take over these neg-
lected byways, and
pving them power to charge the adjacent land-
lords a lump sum (to be fixed in the Act and
proportioned to the amount of lane taken over)
for extra responsibility.
S.M. Herald is—for it —severe on Chief
Justice Darley
We are reluctantly compelled to place on record our
profession of regret that servants of the State in this
country should have used servants of the State in London
as a medium through which to oppose the Commonwealth
Bill, embodying as it does the verdict of a double referen-
dum in four of the federating colonies, the declared
judgment of 'the Parliaments of those colonies, and the
direct instructions of the Premiers to the delegates sent
to Westminister to watch the interests of the Common-
wealth Bill.
“ Servants of this country ! ” Bah ! They
are, nearly all of them, servants of that
country. Australia pays them, but Australia
be hanged !
London Times is of opinion, it is cabled,
that if the right of appeal to the British Privy
Council is abolished it will retard the “invest-
ment of British capital in Australia.” And The
Bulletin says, “Thank God!” Also still louder,
“ Thanh God !” Likewise it gets on the housetop
and cries at the top of its voice, “ Thank God ! ”
’ ’he investment of British capital in this country
, "is made it a wretchedly embarrassed place where
almost every paving-stone, wharf, public building,
every inch of railway, every public tank, dam
and waterhole, every pier, harbor, breakwater,
dredge, locomotive, railway-car, tram-car, road,
telegraph-post, almost every inch of telegraph and
telephone wire, every gaol, lockup, big gun, small
gun, cartridge, fortification, torpedo, benevolent
asylum, pauper asylum, lunatic asylum, and every-
thing else the State has built or bought, is mort-
gaged for every penny of its original value to the
British money-lender. Even ordinary wear and
tear haven’t been written off out of revenue. A
country can no more grow rich by importing •
money from England than a private citizen can by
importiug money from Aaronstein, the money-
lender. If it is true that the abolition of appeals
to the Privy Council will discourage the import-
ation of debt and embarrassment into Australia
then they should be abolished at any cost short of
gory war.
Many “a so-called “ abuse of the white
flag,” on the Boer side as on the British,
is doubtless accidental. A firing-line may be
extended for a mile or more ; and soldiers
at one end may easily be unaware that a white
flag is hoisted at the other. In any event, the
white flag is used by all armies as a means to
trick the enemy ; and the rules regarding it are
by no means settled. Here is what Lord Wol-
seley, Commander-in-chief of the British army,
says on page 300 of “'The'Soldier’s Pocket-Book ”
for the instruction of the English officer who has
to go under the white flag to the enemy—
After he has fulfilled his mission he must return with-
out delay to the general by whom he has been sent,
unless one of the objects for which he was sent is the
gaining of time—for instance, to receive reinforcements
during a fight, in which case, of course, the longer he can
loiter, by, for example, dismounting to search for an
imaginary stone in his horse’s shoe, the better it is.
In the same book the man carrying the white flag
is advised that he may reckon on the chance of
being fired on, because it is very difficult for
the enemy to cease firing at once. And' pre-
sumably Wolseley knows something about the
matter.
, “F.”: Melbourne has taken the whole
biscuit for “ under-sixteen ” cases. At Carlton
Court recently a young man of the “ neatly-
dressed” type was charged with an attempt to
assault one Annie Wilkins, “who looks a big
girl for her age.” Annie, on the oath of her
father, was born in North Wales 15J years ago,
but seeing that her birth-certificate was “ burnt at
Chiltern ” and North Wales is a long way off, the
evidence on this point seems inconclusive. Annie
lives with one or two elder sisters, the girls get-
ting 50s. a week from father for their joint sup-
port in lodgings. The accused young man called
NOT USED TO IT .
FIRST SYDNEY NATIVE: "I see poor old Jackson’s
very bad. No hope, they reckon!”
SECOND DITTO DITTO : “By Jove, what’s up?
Not plague?”
F IRST: “ Oh, no I Sorter general breakdown. 'E
can't stand the fresh air of the city since it’s
been cleaned.”
one night and introduced himself to sister Mar-
garet as a friend of one Clem Pigeon, who had
sent him to enquire after her welfare. He asked
Margaret to go to the theatre, and she promised
to bear him company thither on the follow-
ing Thursday, but when Pigeon’s pal came
on the Thursday he found Margaret unable, or
unwilling, to keep the appointment, therefore he
asked sister Annie to go to the theatre, and Annie
consented to take her relative’s place. Annie and
the young man then partook of a tram-ride, and
whilst they were tramming the strange gentleman
stated that he was over from WeStralia on busi-
ness connected with his uncle’s will. So Annie
accompanied him to a tea-shop and drank two
cups of tea, after which they went into a jeweller’s
where Annie got measured for a ten-guinea ring.
Meanwhile —in the tea-shop —the young man had
explained to the artless damsel that he would
inherit £20,000 under nunky’s will if she
agreed to go through a form of marriage
and borrow a baby. Her remuneration was to
consist of new clothes, “nice jewellery,” and £6OOO
in cash. Then the young man took gentle Annie
into the Exhibition Gardens, stating that he
“wanted to put two marks on her and tell her
about his family affairs.” The marks were to
represent two birth-marks, similar to those borne
bv the alleged dead mother of an illegitimate baby.
Consequently Annie and the young man sat down
on a seat whilst the young man marked her with
lead pencil and breathed on the places for the pur-
pose of making them “come out in the form of
snakes in 48 hours.” Then came the alleged
attempt to rob Annie of her innocence. Annie
sobbed hard while telling the end of her story, in
spite of which lawyer Gaunson subjected her sim-
plicity to a severe cross-examination, and brought
witnesses to swear that the Wilkins’ domicile was
visited by many male persons who used much bad
language. Finally the birth-mark maker from
Westralia was committed for trial on light bail.
Nervousness.
Every nervous person drags down the health of
the other members of the family—nervousness is
contagious.
This season of the year finds women tired beyond
belief.
■ Their nerves have suffered. They are neither
good company for themselves nor for their friends.
Those who are wise are taking the most respon-
sible of all remedies, are getting back their
nervous vigor, their proper weight, and healthy
color. Following the advice of eminent physicians
everywhere. Dr. Robert Shaw, L.S.D., M. 8.,
Rockhampton, gives a strong verdict in favor of
Warner’s Safe Cure, which he has used in pre-
scribing for kidney and liver disease. He says:
“ I have much pleasure in stating that I pre-
scribed Warner’s Safe Cure very frequently whilst
acting as medical officer on the Caims-Hebarton
Railway Contract, and obtained more satisfactory
results from it than any formulae of my own pre-
scribing.”
The best physicians openly endorse and recom-
mend Warner’s Safe Cure, authorising a public
use of their statements that Warner’s Safe Cure,
in case after case, cures biliousness, nervous dys-
pepsia, purifies the blood, and regulates the
stomach, liver and kidneys, and rejuvenates the
fagged-out or diseased system when everything
else fails.*
GEO. ROE
WHISKEY
IS
BEFORE ALL.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOTJNTCASTLE Ss SONS, Brisbane Q’land
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGE^*
...0n...
Mr- Fraok Senior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
X
Avoid Indigestion. Eat
GRANUMA
Avoid Plague? Drink
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
Be Cheerful ? Drink
BILLY TEA
The LUXURY of the TIMES. QUITE UP-TO-DATE
KHAKI BLEND TEA.
Indispensible ! USED by all Loyalists 1
THE BUSHMAN CONTINGENT CANTEEN
Of ALL Good Grocers and Sensible Storekeepers.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents. ■*
WALTCR BRAPLCY CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4 FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianoforte*, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the A action Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Salat
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st


Free Speech and a Free Fight.
“C.A.8.,” from London to The Bulletin, re-
curding Frae Speech, Free England, and a Free
Fight:—
The first of these quantities is “ non est.” Of the exist-
ence of the second much reasonable doubt might now be
entertained. But the third, on the night of March 2nd,
in _ that .part of the Strand opposite the sacred pre-
cincts of Exeter Hall, was a fact patent to all beholders.
In the afternoon a meeting nad been held of those
opposed to the present war, very unpopular views at the
present moment, but views incontestably held by a con-
siderable proportion of thinking men in England, Herbert
Spencer amongst them. However, the mob, which never
thinks, holds the view that the Boer must be exter-
minated and the Republics annexed to the British
Empire. Now, the mob on this occasion had not
recovered frem the effects of the night before, when it
had hqwled and boohooed till 4 a.m., not only (as was
natural) over the relief of Ladysmith, but also over the
stupendous fact that England with 40,000 men could
actually beat the Boers with 4000. The said mob was
going its way along the Strand on the said evening, at
about 6 o’clock, when behold 1 a flaming placard of the
Sun newspaper, “ Boers at Exeter Hall. Disgraceful
Speeches.”
Away ran the mob in the direction of Exeter Hall,
swelling with patriotic fury. Up the stairs they went,
getting thicker and thicker every moment—a true Lon-
don mob, brutalised, maddened, a deplorable sight in-
deed,-the cumulative result of centuries of Conservatism.
Now the mob was drunk, doubly drunk, although alco-
holic liquor had not had much to do with it this time. It
was-drunk with the news of victory—small blame to it —
and drunk with that elevating sentiment of malignant
hate of the Boers so persistently instilled into it not only
by the Press but also by the Pulpit. And so the drunken
mob stormed gradually up the stairs of Exeter Hall, until
Borne dozen of them forced their way into the meeting.
The Union Jack waved aloft, and we heard the news that
Britons never would be slaves, and how Britannia rules
the waves. But the organisers of the meeting had been
before them, and provided a body of volunteer chuekers-
out, distinguished by a small badge from the rest of the
audience. And the chuckers-out did chuck out with a
vengeance. Down the stairs the intruders were pitched
head-foremost, and cracked over the head with anything
that came handy. Their Union Jack, by-the-bye, at
• present adorns the walls of one of the London peace
committees.
The rowdies being ejected, the chuckers-out left the
hall,' and with the stewards of Exeter Hall locked the
doors, and fought the ever-increasing mob outside. The
patriots stormed first one door and then the other, but at
neither could they gain admission, the doors of Exeter
Hall being very stout and almost impossible to break in.
However, they banged and thumped away at the main
doors and on the walls —which pleased them and did no-
body any harm. The meeting numbered some two or
three thousand, half of whom were women, while several
thousands more were in the surging crowd below, making
fruitless efforts to force a passage.
Through the thick bolted doors, as an accompanime 2.
the speeches, came the dull sound of the mob booing
and cheering in the Strand below. Every now and then
the noise grew louder, “ 800-00-00-00-00. Rule, rule
Britannia, &c. 800-00-00-00-oo.” The speakers at the
meeting, however, paid little attention to these convincing
arguments in favor of war, and continued their speeches
unruffled. Someone presently slipped in and begged for a
glassofwater. Some was given him from the table on
the platform. Blood was flowing freely outside, and the
water was wanted for one of the wounded Heads were
cut open, faces scratched, clothes torn, buttons sent the
way of those on the bodice which encased Peoottv’s
plump person ; hats were bashed in, and the scene was
an instructive reminder of the civil and refining influences
of English education and the deep love of the English
people for the ancient constitutional liberties of their
native land. .
At last 40 police had arrived, and the proceedings were
carried out to the very end without any more interrup-
tion than came from the harmless bellowing of the crowd
in the Strand. On the stairs, however, there was a sight
to behold. The fight was one of the most serious ever
known at a London meeting, and the blood trickled from
many smashed faces. After the meeting some of the
speakers (Sir Wilfrid Lawson among them) escaped by a
side-door. By that time the 40 stout policemen had
forcibly kicked out the crowd, and there was at all
events internal order, although the Strand was almost
blocked till some time afterwards.
The scene suggested many reflections. What an unre-
deemed brute is the Londoner when once his brute side is
played upon. Should misfortune ever overtake England,
and revolution come, are there not in all this seething
mass of degraded humanity elements as evil as those which
caused the Reign of Terror in France ?
Mr. John A. Fotheringham, well-known
for 12 years as the energetic secretary of the
Sydney Fresh Food and Ice Co., goes for a six
mon ths’ trip round the world in search of health.
a w ßr 19 venru tniliro. nmomr ntW f.-.r.ri
tter > ea Tf . tOIlm g among other people s food,
however fresh it may be a man naturally feels a
desire to get away from his old haunts and not see
any food except his own for a while,
-vr., w y 1 n M „
NEW ZEALAND LOAN AND MERCANTILE
AGENCY Co., Ltd., Report :—Wheat.—Notwith-
standing the fact that several of our millers are
still in the quarantine area, a fair amount of busi-
liegg j n this g ra j n has been transacted during the
, , ° ,• f 1 , • „ nllß ij, ' s y v «
J veek ; ana any lines ot good to prime quality have
found ready buyers (chiefly for shipment) at a
trifle over the rates ruling earlier 111 the month.
Medium descriptions are still difficult to dispose
0 f a t relatively satisfactory prices. Reviewing
the Company’s sales, the following quotations
w sir"*?* , val iT :
jrrime milling, 2s. good samples, 2s. Bd. ;
faulty and pinched, 2s. 3d. to 2s. 6d. per bushel.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for afl Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
TY.
it;
UNEQUALED FOR
BEAUTIFULWORK^
Staa/dadd full uffboard.
BUSINESS GUNS AT THE FRONT.
Joubert, the Boer commander, carries a Yost Typewriter about with him in his ’bus. He would
never have got his army into its present mess if he had remembered that—“ Beneath the rule of
men entirely great, the Yost is mightier than the sword.”
“ Put up the sword, States can be ruled without it.”
OUR TYPEWRITERS:
The ||eui Century, Dost $ Densmere
Are all well represented at the front. They are found to be business guns of sure and
splendid efficiency.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
114 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane : Webster & Co.; Adelaide: Reeves & Co.; Launceston : Hedley Button ; Hobart: Walch & Sons ;
New Zealand : J. 11. Oolvrill, Auckland ; and at Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE
1 OUiS* Velveteen.
NOTE WELL !—Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L"0"U"I"S ar, d * n no other
< way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
BUILD A TERRACE
OF FINE HOUSES
m
WITH THE MONEY
THAT THE
National
Cash Register
. . . WILL . . .
Save and Make for You
in a Few Years.
You don’t understand why?
Well, you have only to investigate
To see how to accumulate !
FACT! STICK TO IT. ITS MONEY!
PRICES ON APPLICATION to
national (ash Register Co.,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
you
lire
Invited
To send for a
Copy of our
Artistic Booklets—
iWfe'iCS? •:
Ml
/7>.:
•
»^ v
“ All about Dunlop Tyres for 1900 ”
AND
The Story of a Remarkable Cycle Ride ’
(being an account of Richardson’s Cycle Ride around Australia).
Posted Oralis upon receipt of
Name and Address.
FOR
LIGHTNESS, STRENGTH,
AND
DURABILITY.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12 Months.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security
LOWEST
INTEREST
EAST
TERMS
WE
*
BILLS
DISCOUNTED
TO-.5,-W-.
(I)ontdepieteO.^|.Co.,[t<l-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•7 4 CASTLEREAGH ST., *7 4
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
The City Mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
CrEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
24:7 George Street ( facin *- rßrid s e st -) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Bisk Insurances
at Lowest Bates.
E. N. PABKEB, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Jimp. Ijiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. OiiYNB; Brisbane, J. O. Hassale ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Campy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TJUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
AJ Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
London & Lancashire
Fire Insurance company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch:
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
file Bank of (|orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charkkr. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share- „„„ ...
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office: 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG-. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors: "
Hon J F Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Milder.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765 assuring £24, (65,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRN AMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, May 5, 1 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, May 12, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, May 15, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, May 15, 6 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, May 5, 12 Noon,
Burwah, Tuesday, May 8, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, May 12, 12 Noon.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, May 5, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, May 12, 12 Noon.
LUOINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Tassenijers and Caryo
booked throusrh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Porta.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. MTlwraith, M'Eacharn & Co.
Offices— Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Cowper Wharf, Woolloomooloo.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb€ Trustees, €*cc<itorS,
AND
Conjpaijy Lifpitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150.000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant. Manager.
No. 412 Collins-Btreet, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amountof Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23'4/’oo> .. £3.196,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Arohibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; lion. W. 11. Einbling, M.L.C. ;
Hnn N. Thornlev, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. 1.. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M’Nieol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Kishops;fate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford with agency at Wyongl, New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, Soutli
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
The Commercial Hanking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
. £3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C. ; Hon. Richard Jones, M.L.C.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors :
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C. ; Mr. W. L. Docker.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. 11. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 13 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq, ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H, S.
Liftleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
United Co.
(LIMITED )
Read Office':
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurance
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Low
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Missing Friends.
HENRY C3D7R;Y and WILLIAM GOD7REY, sons of
CHARLES GODFREY, late of the city of Birming-
ham, England, Licensed Victualler, deceased, if alive,
should at once communicate with the undersubscribed,
when each of them will be informed of the extent of his
interest under his father’s will. If either or both of the
abovenamed are dead, any information relating to the
time and place of death, and the whereabouts of surviving
children (if any), should be communicated without delay
to JOHNSONS BARCLAY & LOWE,
36 Waterloo street, Birmingham, England, Solicitors of
the Executors of the said Charles Godfrey, deceased.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, IsiKiE & Co., Liverpool. *
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide ayd Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail Second W T eek in May.
And will he followed at suitable intervals by the
PERSIC, MEDIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
penerally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
I) VIA AMERICA
J by th'e
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINK).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Steamer.
1
Tons.
Leave
Sydnej
at 1 p.m.
Leave
Auckland.
Arrive *b
San
Francisco,
MARIPOSA
MOANA
ALAMEDA
3168 May
4000 June
3158 July
9 May
6 June
4 July
14 June
11 June
9 July
1
29
27
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their 'journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time curds, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Si earn Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Sireet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 16 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N.D.L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydnej', Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCIIER LLOYD.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSUEANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
OPALS • PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
<—^ —-
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
...0F...
Opals, Pearls & Sappl)irsS
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL VALUE GIVEN.
A. BCHJAMIN aqd SONS,
285 a Little Collins St. Melbourne-
ZT NOT A GUESSING COMPETITION.
A RECORD.—We sold
5000 of our Celebrated
WATCHES & CHAINS
at 6/6 in 13 months, and
now to universally ad-
vertise our Famous 4/6
Paraguayan 14k t. GOLD
CHAINS to Every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent’s or Lady’s) we will
Present on Payment of
6/- extra the RAILWAY
WATCH, as illustrated,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracv. It is
a JEWELLED, FULL-
/
s
69
Wa
m
DAY, PERFECT LEVER MOVEMENT, SHORT-WIND
WATCH, wound and hands set from stem, strong; and
reliable, same as used on the railways of Great Britain.
Geril’s are medium size, and Ladies’ a perfect 1 Itle gem.
Thev give entire satisfaction ; that is why we send them
out on appro., and if returned within 14 days money is
refunded. These are unprecedented terms. We make
this extraordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE
LIST, and to make ourselves talked about. The Watch
and Chain is sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of
10/6 and 6d. for postage.
H. POTIER & CO.,
24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
Express Passenger Service
—TO m'D FROM
West Australian, South Australian,
Victoiian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE 1
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
Aad GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. WoHowra (from
Melbourne), Tuesday,
May 8.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
May 4.
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
May 11,
Best <t Cheapest Jtoute to Goldfields.
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. (M. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THU POPULAR PASSRNG Hit LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS -Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN— Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Pas.senf/er A econiniodnlion, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Part iculars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows ■—
FOR MARSEILLES AIMD LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
ROME ... 5546 J. Cowie, R.N.R. . !! May 19
HIMALAYA 039,S T. Leigh... . . June 2
OCEANA 0003 L. H. Crawford, C.B.R.N.R. June 10
PENINSULAR 5287 W. A. Wheler June 30
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON- Single, £36 to ,£7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £O5 to LUO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAWNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
Huddart, parker £ go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Cirrent Rates,
“h,. AND A.” company!
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows:
FOR MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons parried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-sl reet, Sydney.
m i.i.iiv-s j%sa,'n .•«' ~' lrr — —'■
(|] < |!uiraith,[l] < ggckarnS 09.
PROP. LID.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
MMwraith, Sc Co P cur eta y Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—4o7 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6.'00 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,. ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, 425 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
■SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English ini ip- lers meet
the passengers for London and give them ev rv assistance
iri landing and passing their luggage through r he Customs,
etc., and also accompany them 10 Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Poi ts are available for return by P. and 0.
steamers having roots..
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydn'ev. *
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


Rochester Lodge
Collins Place,
Collins'Street 1.,
o' Superior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of town nan.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M‘CLELLAND
(nee BOLGER).
Business Announcements.
CHEAP AND FASHIONABLE TAILORING.
CG. HATTE, of King-street, Newtown (near Sydney,
• N.S.W.), has recently made great additions and im-
provements to his Tailoring Department, which is now one
of the features of his extensive business. He receives regu-
lar shipments, from his Home buyers, of all the newest and
most fashionable goods, and has one of the smartest cutters
in the colony, Everything is made to measure on the pre-
mises; a perfect fit is guaranteed, and patrons may rely on
every satisfaction being given. Self-measurement forms
and patterns sent free by post. Hatte’ssuits of Indigo serge,
all-wool tweeds, and sergeretteslwith extra pair of trousers
given in) for 42/- are the marvel of tailoring and the talk of
Australasia. For 50/- Hatte makes a suit of tweed or serge
fit for a prince. Inspect or send for patterns of his new
woollens, comprising vicunas, West of England, Scotch and
Blarney tweeds, at 57/6, and 65/- ; the great value offered.
Hatte makes a smart Chesterfield overcoat from meltons,
vicunas, and Venetians from 45/-, and the hew paddock
coat, with full back, side vents, crescent pockets, silk-faced
and velvet collar for 55/-. Hatte’s speciality is in dress-
suits, starting at £3 3s, made of purple dye elastic coating
with silk-facing. For excellence of material, perfect fit,
latest fashion, and superior workmanship, Hatte is un-
equalled, whilst his charges are at least 30 per cent, under
those of ordinary city tailors.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins !
Posted (undercover)
to anj-part. of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
I’rlce, 10b. Oil.
“I’ll Try It." Solr Agents: The Result.
Craig & Aitken. 680-682 George- st„ Sydney
AMUSEMENT for OLD and lOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondike Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716)4 and 718 George-etreet, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Fair gtrls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
Medical.
Bubonic
&
&
m
REGISTERED.
Plague
Can be Prevented
By Using-
ECKERSLEY’S
fdentholine.
All Chemists.
Large Size 2/6 ; Small 1/-
Wholesale from
Australian
Co.
Dear Sir.—Please inform your readers that X have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
lemedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
t o all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydor
COMFORT IN WALKING.
0
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS.
1 It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/Is, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON. Chemist, Cheltenham
England.
FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO., Melbourne ;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
ELLIS’S
(Registered) Simple Foot Gear.
SEND
2d. STAMP
FOR TAPE
MEASURE.
CATALOGUE
POST FREE
ON
APPLICA-
TION.
TK7TTH an ordinary tape measure determine the width
VV round the joints AA. round the instep 88, round heel
GC, round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and
width of tread by placing the foot on asheet of paper and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Gut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities —a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
■little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to BLLIb fc>,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
BLACK OR TAN
FRENCH CALF
LACE OR E.S
POST FREE
TO MEASURE
14/G
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). >
Note the Address :
W. J. ELLIS & CO., 686 George St.,
Sydney ■ ■ brickfield hill.
£fu/ieK
MIGHTY
( REGISTERED 'I
freshly prepared Fran? die Famous Africarj KOLA NUTS
A SUSTAINING &
STIMULATING TONIC ¥
WITHOUT INTOXICATION
The. Greatest Puck me up a Appetiser known.
It makes you, eat and makes you strong
—> Tt cures Indigestion. ——*
WHEN OIIrOFSORTSf^aMkrfAIOK''
IT SAVES DOCTORS BILLS
Ati Hotels & refreshment rooms w.™ soda Water 6 Vs l^
ALL CHEMISTS 2/g *nd 'Vg Per Bottle?
~Pljcu 'njncg 337 George Si Nesrty opp G Post Office
fo<n\\S>K" BilTfrß 6a A BITY£R
i t;t;v hoj ui-vh good
mm.
&
&
52
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Eestorer.
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. 'Price— 35., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLANDS PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATUR ALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. 6d. Postage,
(VI ovtrn
95
I
e/?
3
Washington it. boot. <£ Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES. OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, H'air Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE
Lone! on,
B.C.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
jF*r a. nxrus: jt
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. Wales -HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen BRISBANE.
Victoria -JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia -C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
ARE YOU ABOUT TO FURNISH?
You cannot do better than try I JILL'S. They have the Largest
Stock in Australasia. Have you got one of our New Catalogues ? IT
not, call or write Tor one. Posted Free. 72 Pages, 500 Illustrations.
Just Published.
HALL’S
HALL’S
HALL’S
HALL’S
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, in rich Genoa Velvet, with silk plush borders, viz., Settee,
2 Arm Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for 8 Guineas. Thirty Drawing-room Suites to
select from.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, very strong, covered in best American Leather; 6 Padded
Back Chairs, Large Couch, and Pair Easy Chairs. 6 Guineas. Ditto, in real Maroon
Leather, 10 Guineas.
BEDROOM SUITE, Polished Pine or Walnut Color; Wardrobe, with Plate-glass
Door and Deep Drawer; Duchess Chest Drawers, with Glass attached ; Marble-top
Washstand, Towel Rail, and Chair, £6 15s.
FULL-SIZE HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD, Brass Footrail, Double Wire Mattress,
and Set Best Wool Bedding. 4 Guineas. With best Kapok Bedding, £4 17s. Gd.
A. HALL & COMPANY,
The Universal House Furnishers,
561, 563, 565 & 567 George-st., Sydney (Brickfield Hill).
Goods Stored Free until required. Country Orders Packed Free. Leave Tram at Liverpool-
street for Hall’s. Close—Saturdays, 9 p.m. ; Wednesdays, 1 p.m.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
I
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
IN New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Sales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over Gd. per lb.,
the cnarge will be
On Wools realising Gd. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under
§ per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. Gd. per Bale.
Is. Gd. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
he quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of Marsupial Slvina
IftIPOD.TA.NT ANNOUNCEMENT !
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
MOIRS
SEVILLE ORANGE
MARMALADE
In lib. Round Flat Tins.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
Dr. Pierce’s “XXX” Electric Belt
m
a
wr
»
f/,
Lh-
m.
h r?
Price, £5 3s
This Belt is the Latest Improved,
most powerful, and in all respects the BEST now
manufactured in any part of the world. Its equal
does 1 not exist. The Galvanometer shows its
■lectric current to be double that of any other.
Easily regulated. Durably insulated. Latest
improved attachments. Special conductors and
electrodes. Reversible current. Double wire sus-
pensory for men. Satin lined body-belt. It will
cure any disease on earth that it is possible to
cure with Electricity. Thousands have been cured.
P.S.—The above is our BEST, but we have
other grades of the same goods at lower prices.
Call on our Sydney Agents and. examine the
Belts, or send them a stamp for “Booklet No. 2.”
Pierce Electric Co., San Francisco, U.S.A.
Washington H. Soul & Co., 160 Pitt st., Sydney, n.s.w.


Attorney-General Wise in Reply.
The Editor of The Bulletin. Sir,—l have so
much respect for the political criticism of The
Bulletin, because, however one may disagree with
it, it is generally founded on some clear principle,
that 1 do not like to pass without notice your
trenchant remarks about myself in last week’s
leader. You accuse me in this of a complete
change of opinion with regard to the relations
between Australia and Great Britain, and justify
the charge by very short extracts from an article I
wrote for MacMillan’s Magazine in Jan., 1888.
Now, so far am I from admitting this charge to be
correct, that I accept that article as my justification
for my conduct as a Minister in relation to the
dispatch of troops to S. Africa. The writer of the
leader has, by selecting two extracts apart from
the context, misrepresented what I wrote, as
I will proceed to prove.
. The tenor of the article is indicated by its
title, “A menace to National Unity and its
aim is to show the danger of causing dissension
between Great Britain and Australia by premature
schemes of Union.
All that is desired l say, “is to criticise from
the standpoint of a Unionist the ill-advised action
of some who believe themselves the friends of Union.”
I claim to regard affairs to-day from the same
standpoint; and to be now as I was ten years
ago, a supporter of union between Great Britain
and Australia. .1 then proceeded in the article to
give what I still believe to be solid and material
reasons for desiring union, the chief of which is
our geographical position, which connects us com-
mercially with China and the East, where, unless
England is predominant, our interests must suffer.
I next referred to the Soudan expedition, which
I said in words which I accept to-day—
Placed us at the point where those roads part which
lead, the one to isolation, the other to union ; and it will
need all the self-restraint and resolution of the political
leaders both of England and the colonies to prevent our
being forced upon the barren and ungrateful path. ...
The Soudan expedition forced us prematurely to the
front, and caused an uneasy questioning of our relations
with the rest of the empire.
Thinking as I then did that the time was not ripe
for settling the questions which this expedition
raised, and believing also that the occasion had
not required any offer of troops from Australia, I
urged that
organic questions (of politics) ought not to be lightly
raised. They ought not to be discussed in the market-
place until they are ripe for a solution. Imperial Federn-
tion is emphatically one of those questions which ought
not to be dragged prematurely on the platform. The tie
between England and her colonies is of such a light and
almost imperceptible character that it ought not to be
exposed to constant strain. The tie is strengthening 1 year
by year and if a sudden strain should come upon it there
is little doubt but that it would hold.
Then followed a warning against making Union
a cry of an English party, and these words of advice.
What then is the course which a critic who is not
unfriendly would recommend to the Imperial Federation-
lsts? It is not an attractive course, nor will it readily
recommend itself to editors who love sensation. [Mr.
Stead was then showing signs of starting on the war-path
on this question] or to public speakers who enjoy large
phrases. It is this: —“ Watch and wait; inform the people
about these colonies ; teach them our resources ; let the
best of them come to us ; educate them ; but do not, as
you value Union, talk about our political connection until
you are ready with a practical suggestion for making it
stronger.”
Then I added some remarks about the evils of
dependence—remarks which I still believe to be
true, and in this connection used the phrase which
you quote in your leader—
Union with England we gladly believe will co ne, but it
must be the union of an equal with an equal, and not the
union of a superior with a subordinate ; so that it is no
paradox to say that the first step towards union must be
separation.
The quotation continues with words your writer
omitted from his article, as follows:
We are manifestly not yet ready to take that step-, and
a public man would be guilty of little short of treason if
he were to advocate it. . . . Every year sees us approach
more nearly to a Federal union ; and every year also will
see, unless some inconsiderate pedantry should bring our
destinies within the range of English party politics, a
growing attachment towards England, founded* upon a.
higher sense of public duty and a more judicial perception
of national interest.
I concluded by quoting from Sir Henry Parkes’
speech in the Legislative Assembly;, of Nov. 25th,
1887, a well-known passage, in which he looked
forward to a great union of the British Empire,
constituted by federated groups.
Now, sir, my contention is that neither in senti-
ment nor word does this article conflict with my
present political action. I believe that the pre-
sent war, whatever judgment we may pass upon
the diplomacy which caused its outbreak, is
emphatically a war for British supremacy ; and as*
such, I urge that Australia does well to bear a
hand in it. Ido not regard this as “doing
Britain’s bidding,” but as a voluntary act of our
own, dictated by the highest form of self-interest,
viz., loyal duty to a high ideal. Those who are
enemies of England and wish her ill will naturally
not take this view ; but I claim that all who, like
myself, have always believed that Australia finds
her strength in Union with England, will rejoice
in a movement which has made that Union closer'
by proving to ourselves and to the world that we
are ready to enter upon that “ Union of an equal
ivithanequal” whichl hoped forinlBBB. I certainly
did not anticipate at that time that in so short a
period as 12 years the then prevalent indifference
on the part of Great Britain and suspicion on ours
would have given place to that mutual confidence
and understanding which is now so significant of
the relations between the two countries. A Feder-
rated Australia able to protect herself, and ready
to play her proper part in the protection of the'
British Empire, by guarding British interests in.
the East, may be in a position, far sooner than
anyone had dared to hope, to make that alliance
with the other free communities of the British
Empire, which was the political ideal of Sir Henry
Parkes, from which you accuse me of having de-
parted.
B. R. Wise.
[Mr. Wise asserts that his critic has misrepresented!
him ; but why does Mr. Wise misrepresent himself f
He received full credit for those Imperialistic aspira-
tions, of which he speaks with not unbecoming pride.
Mr. Wise, it was pointed out, “ believed in alliance-
with England in 1888, aa he does now.” But he be-
lieved then that the first step towards a perfect alliance-
was a complete separation —as he does now ? It is, then,
with the object of separating Australia from Britain
with the object of attaining that independence which, a*
he points out, is on Australia’s part essential and must be-
antecedent to Imperial Federation—that Mr. Wise, as a.
member of the Lyne cabinet, places upon Australia’s-
shoulders the responsibility of Imperial war. That is, in
order to secure the independence of Australia, Mr. Wise
advocates that course of action which, above all others, is
calculated to prove Australia’s dependence —for how can
dependence be better shown than by the payment of a
war-tribute of money and men towards a war in which
Australia, like an ancient satrapy, has no voice?
And in order to secure the separation of Australia
from England, Mr. Wise approves that course of
action which, as Imperial Federationists declare, has done
more than anything else to tighten the existing bonds. Mr.
Wise s continued belief in the need for the separation and
independence of Australia is, in fact, proved by the zeal
with which he promotes a policy calculated to bring
atont the exact opposite. And the person who proves
that Mr. Wise goes down in order to go up, goes back-
ward with the sole aim of going forward, is—Mr. Wise.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
, ran k Morris s handicapping of the trotters
Hathiirat (N.S. W.) show was a signal success, as evi-
denced by several neck-and-ntvk finishes. At Bathurst
the trotting horse in N.S.W. gets his one annual show on
a first-class track, and the speediest animals in the pro-
vince answered the call this year. Unfortunately, the
track was very heavy from recent rams, otherwise some
very fast rimes would have been recorded. From the
£3O, or champion class, the starters were Mr. Buekland’s
vy hat, a horse with a reputation of being a’»!e to trot verv
cl °? e u to 2.20; Dr. Slate’s Silver Hi e the mare
which has bean showing such fine furm on Svd-
ney tracks; and Mr. Harry Knight’s Judge Ituon,
the horse that performed so well at Sydney show.
The finish was excellent, Judge Huon winning from
What by a head m 2.825. What the time would have
been on a firm track it is hard to say. Franz, th. three-
year-old brother to Fritz, promises to follow in hi* illus-
trious relative’s steps, as he started in the 2.45 el a*- and
won by a head from Judge Huon in 2.31. Another ex-
citing finish was seen in the two miles Wind-up Handi-
cap, when Silver Hue (30sec. behind) came into the
straight neck-and-neek with Harold Orev (Bsec. behind).
W u th T mare broke antl Harold Grey got home. Which
wa» ham luck for the Doctor after running such a fine
race. Silver Hue ran a great race, and in pieces must
« V ?u een P ac ' n B at a 2.25 gait. The disappointment
or the meeting was the smart little mare. Trilby,
who started in the 3min. glass and finished absolutely
last, the winner turning up in Harold Grey. Some fine
contests were seen in the mile handicap in heats. Judge
Huon won the first heat, Huon Prince the second, and
Messenger, 13 behind, won two heats straight out
and the prize. Mr. Buckland showed a great ponv in
Daybreak, a full sister to Don Cleve by Van Cleve from
Moonbeam. Daybreak, who is 13 2 in height; started at
the almost prohibitive mark of 80see. behind, hut she
mowed down all opposition and won as she liked. The
Bathurst Show executive and the handicapper, Mr.
Morris, are to be congratulated for the leg-up their close
finishes are likely to give to that fine animal, the trotting
horse. °
• •» * »
Mr. Harry Knight’s Judge Huon secured the
blue ribbon for best trotting stallion at Bathurst
Show. The other horses shown were Van Cleve, sire of
Champion Fritz ; Franz, three-year-old brother to Fritz ;
Huon Prince and Messenger.
* * * *
At Maitland show the horse Rattler got over
6ft. 9in. in a high jump.
* • * •
Kensington (Sydney) got a day in with the
ponies lost Saturday, there being no metropolitan horse-
meeting on that date. A hig sprinkling of the usual
‘ horse ” people were in evidence, but thev found it just
as hard to pick the little ’uns as the big ’uns. Two even-
money favorites in Flower Girl and Selina, and one odds-
on, Minimus, got home ; but the other three events must
more than have swallowed up the short-odds winnings,
so poor Ikey got out of the crush all right.
* * *• *
A common dodge on the part of Sydney pony
jockeys is to squeeze in next the rails near the finish of a
race, and if defeated, enter a protest for interference.
* * *
The eminent and clever Mr. “Jack” Brewer
has, after waiting patiently in England, got his knife in
under their fifth rib—per medium of The Grafter’s victory
in the City and Suburban. Sievier-Sutton (“Bob ”Sutton,
the cash bookmaker, now connected by marriage with the
pure-merino aristocracy) is said to have won £20,000 on
the race, and the nosey gelding has been backed exten-
sively for the Jubilee Handicap, to be run May 12. “ Most
•Of the Australians in England backed Syerla, the property
•of Humphrey Oxenham, as they believed the reports
about The Grafter being ill. Mr. Oxenham’s horses,
Syerla and Sailor Boy, have since been removed from Mr.
J. E. Brewer’s to Mr. Halsey’s stables.” The English
sporting papers were unanimously of opinion that Brewer
•could neither ride nor manage horses ; and it is cabled
that the Times remarks that The Grafter’s recent running
■was somewhat peculiar.
• * • •
/' Gun ” : “ Bob Sutton ” (Robert Sievier)
•originated cash-betting in Australia many years ago,
and had several ups and downs. Two or three times he
•started operations at Rand wick and Flemington with an
•empty bag, and pulled through ail right. Returning to
England, his good looks and fetching style landed him in
■clover, for he married the Marquis of Aylesbury's sister,
and jumped into lasting affluence apparently. * His offer
recently to raise a company of yeomanry for service in
South Africa, was “ declined with thanks” by the British
War authorities. “ Bob ” must have gathered in that
twenty thou, as a backer, for he is hardly likely to have
slung the “ Tommy ” round his neck again.
* * » *
The Grafter went away well-endorsed with Mel-
bourne Cup (9.2 up), 0. B. Fisher Plate, and Flying Stakes
(wherein he accounted for Bobadil at weight-for-age) as
recent achievements. Good judges expected him to leave
bis mark in one or two big races, but reports that trainer
Brewer was full-up of the old country, and the fact that
The Grafter’s owner had returned to Australia made hope
very sick. The nag’s best previous performance in Eng-
land was fifth in Cambridgeshire Stakes, where he carried
8.3. His first impost was 9.7 in Epsom Plate, then came
'9.12, 8.10, 8.11, 8.3, and 8.8 in successive events. Second
nag (Innocence) got home twice in eight starts last season,
and third horse (Goblet.) once in four.
* • * , •
Ten-year-old gelding Swagman—winner of Dis-
posal Stakes at Wagga (N.S.W.) Saturday— has had a
chequered career. Six years ago he won in and around
Sydney, and has since given Victoria, Westralia, India,
and South Africa a turn, gathering in money all the time.
He was hamstrung at Wodonga (Vic.) two years back,
but some clever vet. fixed him up.
• * * •
Career of Bananaland champion nag— the Malua-
Malpra gelding, Malula—shows the luck of the game, or
what a change of trainers may do. Recently, MaJula
•easily beat a good field in fast time, and won the April
Handicap—a mile and a distance—with 10.2 up. Though
racing about Brisbane for a long while, Malula had little
•or no success. Always regarded as a good hut unlucky
nag, he evidenced a remarkable weakness for running
■second or third, hut was rarely first past the post. Per-
haps only one win was notched by hhn until he became
the property of Mr. Tatty, at an outlay of £55. The nag
was placed under Tom O’Brien’s care, and a week later he
appropriated the Corinthian, at Taft.'s January meeting.
•Since then it has been pretty well all win, as in nine starts
be scored eight firsts and a second.
• * * *
“ Gun ” : Tn 22 years that big three-mile event,
the A.J.C. Plate, has only been done Under 6.40 on 10
•different occasions. Carbine’s third victory was achieved
in 5.27 mainly because Mr. M’Laughlin’s nag, Oorreze, set
him a go.
• * * *
The Sydney dailies often make stereotype-men-
tion of the satisfactory arrangements at Randwick. But
without referring to the meagre provision made there, in
comparison to Flemington (Vic.), for patrons of the flat,
it may be pointed out that a practical deception is played
upon everyone who pays Is. for a racebook, expecting same
to be thoroughly reliable. To show how far it isn’t so,
take the following : “ Easter Stakes, Maltster Bst. 71b.,
Hautesse 8.5, Kinglike 8.4.” Misled by these incomplete
extensions, many visitors invested on Maltster and King-
like, and were bewildered when the race was won, hands-
down, by Hautesse. Inquiry showed the actual weights
to be Maltster 9.7, Kinglike 8.9, and Hautesse 7.12.
* * * •
’Ome mail news is that the famous nag Flying
Fox has taken up his quarters at M. Blanc's stud in France!
The owner is game ; he wanted to race his new purchase
in Ascot Gold Oup, and thus risk defeat and consequent
deterioration in stud value. Only ten mares are to be
put to Flying Fox this year. Flying Fox ha* been a
huge gold-mine, and looks like keeping on that way, bar
accidents. He raked in, while racing, over £40,000, and
was sold for £37,000.
* * * *
Leviathan metallieian Humphrey Oxenham,
following in the wake of that other whilom leader of the
Australian betting ring, Joe Thompson, goes ’Ome to
stay if he finds “ fielding ” there to his liking. He was
at once an institution to his brother Mo and the latter’s
natural enemy, the punter ; for, with the bag on, he’d lay
anything “ till the cows came home,” and in big piles,
too, and when he cast the badge of office aside to hack
"something good,” no price, however short, deterred
him. Socially, the nerveful, off-hand “Oxy” was the
mouthpiece of the leather-lunged ; politically, he was
their lobbyist. Did a designing M.P. attempt to lop off
anything from the privileges of Mo, " Oxy ” was moved *
did somebody breathe “ tote ” in the law-making shop of
the country, “ Oxy’s ” “ pull ” silenced him. Ikey is now
in sore straits how to fill the breach ; there’s nobody in
sight within cooey of requirements.
• » • *
At the Australian record auction-sale of horses
at Alb try last week, 1270 horses were sold for £13,300.
The lemand was entirely on account of the South African
war.
* • * *
Maud S., whose record of 2.8 f stood as the trot-
ting record of the world formany years, is dead. Maud S.
made her record on an oval track, in an old-fashioned
hickory sulky, and many judges of trotting in America
reckon that the old-time mare’s record is equal to the
modern records on kite-shaped tracks in pneumatic
sulkies. Trials have been made by some of the modern
cra..-ks under the old conditions, but they have never been
aulc io beat the Maud S. record.
* * * •
At Onkaparinga (M.L.) races, Easter Monday,
£22,705 10s. went through the tote. Said that the sum
represented over a sov. for each man, woman, and child
on the course. Last year the total was £24,578 ; the year
before, £21,434 ; in 1897, £21,834 1 os. : and, in 1890,
£18,136. There’s no mistake about Onkaparinga meeting
as a one-day affair and the Onkaparinga people as patrons
of the tote.
• • * #
M.L. turfites discuss the advisableness of mak-
ing the re-handicapping system universal. At present, if
a horse with a big impost wins an event after declaration
of weights and incurs a 71b., 101 b., or 141 b. penalty he is
out of court right away ; whereas if no such penalising
condition were attached, the adjuster, in re-handicapping
the horse, would prohahlv only give him a pound or two,
or allow him to stop on his original mark. In the case of
lightly-weighted animals it would be different. Re-han-
dicapping seems to be better than the penalty plan. The
public would see first-class horses, unhampered by an
excessive grand-stand burden, under colors ; and owners,
instead of “ waiting” and running byes in view of a
plum, would likely race their nags out. The two clubs in
the province that have adopted the re-handicapping sys-
tem have found it answer perfectly.
Printed that in South Africa, recently, 38
M.L. mounted men raced some Boers for the possession
of a kopje, and that, on the way, a sft. wire fence was en-
countered, which only two out of the 38 failed to nego-
tiate. Next t
• • * •
One of the two following camp-fire yams may
or may not. have some truth in it.—S. Q’land, 1887 : “ The
(stolen stallion) Dook of Athol ? Ah ! ’twas me an’ Bilk-
pinched im off the blokes as shook ’im. We ’ad our mark
as ud buy an’ ast no questions, so we ’ooked ’im an’ slipt
’im over the border, an’ got a ’undred : an’ that’s all I’m
goin’ to tell yer.”—Coolgardie, 1895 : “Duke of Athol?
Well, it’s a pretty old affair now, so 1 don’t mind telling
Five of us were in it. Two stole the horse and handed
him over to my brother-in-law, Teddy and myself. Then
they got, and we took the horse to the Liverpool ranges and
planted him on top of a place that was a precipice on
three sides and the fourth closed with a slip-rail. We
camped about 3 miles away, and carried water and grass
up to him. But one day Teddy came back in a sweat.
‘ The troopers are on to the Duke ! I tracked shod horses
up to the rail along the spur. 1 s’pose they are hiding up
there waiting for us.’ ‘ Whew !’ gasped my brother-in-law,
‘ that’s 10 years apiece if we are caught 1’ So we cleared
for Q. and never went back.”
* • • *
“ X.”: The little game some Sydney bruisers
and those pulling the strings are playing threatens to
knock the bottom out of the present big* pug. boom
’Twas ever thus with them. Same old biz has been going
on since the days of Figg. Wrestlers settled their sport
years ago, and rarely get a look-in now. Boxing is
moving that way. Atop of the recent affair between
Tim Hegarty and Billy Williams, and that soft snap
(Broughton) dug out for Oribb, comes the refusal
of Mick Dunn (Sydney) and Fred Preston (Melb.)
to fight at Metropolitan A.O. (Sydney) “ because the
house wasn’t big enough.” The club offered £75 when
the match was made ; “ big head ” prevented acceptance.
Gate totalled £4O, hut that was “too small.” Five
hundred people went home cursing pugs and pugilism
generally. Writer wouldn’t give a shilling to see the
match as such. Preston’s reputation isn’t a good average
one, and Dunn, though 11.4 champion of the mother
province now, when the quality is shoddy, never was a
top-notcher, and has deteriorated a heap. The public
knew all this, so, in the circumstances, £4O was a bit
more than the fight was worth, and more than either will
ever get again in Sydney unless Oribb takes Dunn on,
which is not a remote contingency provided Dunn is
willing.
• • * *
“ Old Timer” : Last week the bruising-boom in
Sydney got another facer, which, following Hegarty-
Williams, Cribb-Broughton, and Dunn-Preston fiascoes,
should go very near compelling prof, pugs to go to work!
as there is little demand for them in other provinces.
Tweedie-Hegarty match proved a farce, and the much-
boomed Hegarty’s stock collapsed like a pricked bladder.
Tweedie’s showing was worse, but nobody expected much
from him ; he’s clever enough for anything—lack of grit
and capacity for fight is the trouble. 1200 people looked
at Hegarty trying to get at Tweedie, and the latter
jigging, ducking, or side-stepping away without an
attempt at responding for nearly an hour and a-half
(20 rounds), and then the thing was declared a draw. The
crowd boohooed and bantered. Tweedie made a speech :
“ Gen’lmen, Mistegarty is de cleverest man in Australia,
and I wasn’t goin’ in ter foight him. 1 made up me mind
ter make a dror of it, and I did.” Hegarty followed suit:
“ • did me best, gen’lmen—Tweedie is a cleverer man
than me, and I was giving away a stone. I’ll fight any
man in Australia at 9.6.” This is all the satisfaction the
crowd got for wasting two hours, and parting with good
coin. It wasn’t an arranged affair—if it had been they’d
have made things livelier. Truth is, Tweedie was scared
by Hegarty*s reputation, and laid himself out to take no
risks, and keep as much out of harm’s way as possible.
Pugs hailing from Melbourne are at a discount in Sydney
now ; they have had a hand in every one of the farces
mentioned at the opening of this par.
* * • »
Details of fight between N.S.W. pug .Tim Ryan
and Dido Plumb, in London, last month, are to hand.
tV ant of condition beat Ryan ; he had the better of
matters for six rounds but then fell away and was
knocked out in the eighth. Odds of 2tol on him at one
stage. According to reports he has adopted that ugly
Yankee crouch which Australian Tut Ryan and Tim
Hegarty assume and suffer through. The good old Larry
Foley , Peter Jackson, Griffo and Bob Fitzsimmons style of
standing up square and making the most of reach and
height, and putting the weight of the body' into every
punch, is tne best method after all. Because World's
Champion Jeffries and “ Kid” McCoy crouch and win, it
doesn’t follow that everyone else can do likewise; besides,
odds are that each would do even better if he shaped
properly.
• • • •
Rastlers are chin-wagging again. Harry Dunn,
over in M.L., has responded to llartz Mountain giant
Rennert’s challenge, and lodged £25 for a match from £5O
to £2OO a-side. Rennert is hunting for his backer now.
Mount Morgan (Q.) Wilson also wants a cut at the Teutonic
Hercules, who’ll have his hands full if he takes both on.
Writer hasn’t seen a finer-built athlete in Australia than
Rennert. If he wrestles as well as he looks he’ll settle
them all.
* * * »
Australia’s rep. (Stan. Rowley) for British
championships and World’s Olympian games at Paris,
next July, left Melbourne, by P. and O. boat Australian,
on Tuesday. He'll figure in races up to 300yds., and can
only start in one (100 metres) at the Olympian games.
Rowley is a native of Young (N.S.W.), and was born 23
years ago ; he stands sft. 10in., and scales, now, 11.4.
His triumphs began at school, in '9O. He got home
second, by a yard, in N.S.W. Championship of ’95;
winner Cartwright’s time was 9 3-5. Since then, Rowley
has been top-notch sprinter of the continent, and gathered
in several local and interprovincial events at 220yds. and
100yds. In ’9B he journeyed to M.L., and downed that
province’s cracks—Smith and Patrick—over 100yds., dead-
heating Patrick in a 250yds. event. Australasian records
to his credit are : 120yds. in 12sec. (two years back),
220yds. in 22 1-6, «.nd 100yds. in 9 9-10 last season. ’Tis
said that Rowley’s stride averages'Bft. Bin. when at his
top. Standing to his credit are even times for five of eight
100yds. races. Several handicaps and scratcli events, other
than championships, have also gone his way.
* • • »
Edwin Smith, Adelaide’s leading patron of
athletics, claims an Australian record in being President
of 80 cricket and other clubs. He has for years been the
presiding genius of Adelaide Oval, now one of the best
sports grounds in Australia and alleged to possess the
best cycle-track in the world.
Retired champion Larry Foley, aged 48, who
takes a pardonable pride in his youthful appearance and
virility, has got a severe set-hack. The other day a
venerable old gaffer from “ out-back ” with the querulous
voice of age and senile tremblings in his limbs, accosted
the stalwart Larry and mumbled out: “ Glad lam to see
you, Mr. Foley ! I can remember just as if it were yester-
day, my father, rest his soul, takin’ me when a little boy
to see you belt the srml-case out of Sandy Ross. An’your
wearin’ well, Mr. Foley, wearin’ well ! ” Lawrence sud-
denly remembered that he had an appointment and
departed like a man in a dream. This varn isn’t true, but
. that doesn’t matter.
* • • •
C. F. Scott (Ballarat) and D. M. Strickland
(E. Melb.), Harriers, have shunted pot-hunting and gone
after lucre. Scott (50yds. and 60yds. respectively) finished
second in the mile (4.27) and two miles (9.37)‘at Stawell
(Vic.) recently. Same meeting saw Strickland getaway
with the big handicap and the Eight Hour event. In
the latter connection it is amusing to hear that three
groundless protests were entered and dismissed, yet the
prize-money is withheld and all bets remain unpaid pend-
ing “ inquiries.” Statutory declarations and personal
identifications have proved no good, and now Strickland
is asked to “give the full names of his sisters, if any.”
Why not include “ his cousins and his aunts ”?
• * * *
J. W. Heckenberg, winner of the axemen’s con-
test at Sydney Show, is 34 years old, 6ft. 2in. tall, weighs
14st. 101 b. ; with chest 42Ain., upper arm 16in., fore-arm
13iin., thigh 24in., calf 16in. They chop in all shapes;
but in that one for choice, it seems.
• * * •
“ S.S.” : Bike-racing as a sport is certainly
played out. I paid particular attention to the crowd
around Melb. Exhibition arena on Eight-Hour Day ; it
was a tremendous collection, and watched the programme,
through with the stolidity of Red Indians in council. Nob
the slightest indication of interest or alertness was dis-
coverable till a bike smashed and a rider rebounded off the
asphalt like a rubber ball. Then there was a visible
awakening, an eager, enraptured stir of the whole assem-
blage ; but the man arose to his feet, and walked off the
track with little assistance, and the “ sightseers ” fell sud-
denly into their former condition of lethargy—waiting, it
appeared to me, for the next “ bust up ” ; and as Jackson
came off through the grandstand push, with his back
stripped of guernsey and hide, and his collarbone broken,
scarcely an eye followed him. Had he come off in the
ambulance stretcher with a proper regard for spectacular
effect, his accident would have been a popular success.
• ■* * »
Griebenow, the champion cyclist of S. Africa,
mentioned by Argus war-correspondent M‘Donald as
fighting in the Boer ranks, was the man whom our Bill
Martin wanted to beat, and Bill actually went to Africa for
that purpose. But local cycling, controlled by oof-
landers 6f Johannesberg, is purely amateur (the humor of
it!) and after Bill had met the only pro., Van Heerden, he
could not prevail upon the athletic authorities to grant
an exemption to him. Griebenow, on the other hand,
declined to surrender his amateur status, so Bilmartin
had to leave without racing him.
• * * *
Last round of Sydney second - grade cricket
competition was got rid of Saturday. Burwood second
and Balmain tied in a division, necessitating a decider.
Central Cumberland came out on top of the B lot hand-
somely, thus crediting the club with a double, the first 11
having won the senior-grade struggle.
A remarkable game of cricket was the final for
a £2O cup competed for in Oippgland a few years ago.
The teams were mostly young farmers, and as it was
burning-off season the leaders in the competition turned
up for the final with only three players (no substitutes
allowed). The three won the toss and ran up 108 ; then,
with one of them wicket-keeping and the other two at
point or in slips and bowling alternately, they dismissed
the opposing 11 for 10 and 14. One of the three (Mul-
doon) was described by an interprovincial expert as being
the best bowler he ever saw—fast as Richardson and able
BUYERS of road Bicycles find better service and
greater value in the EASY RUNNING
MASSEY - HARRIS than in any other Bicycle.
What we say they’ll do they do do.
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New Houtli Wales Headquarters— Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue prlsted Tree on application.
T. J. M'BRIDE, General Manager for Australasia, MELBOURNE.
F. L. BISHOP, Manager for New South Wales, SYDNEY.
Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
lofloeoza CoOgb-
a
K
K
£
K
IN RED BIRD BEARINGS
Each hall runs in a separate case by itself and does not come in contact
with its fellows; result, a saving of over 50 %in friction. With this
hub, it is impossible for the bearing's to jam when axle nuts are tightened
and at the same time they cannot work out of alignment.
In other bearings, the balls run together in one cup ; as a result,
they rub one on the other, causing friction and wear.
Our Catalogue will teach you more about this great feature.
Manufactured, Sold & Guaranteed by
p*3 ‘'°o »p<fr«a pi«°9
Factories
Brantpcrd, Canada.
Hgewte— everywhere.
Australasian Branches:
64 King-st., Sydney, He.d Office in Ausyraua.
261 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st. , Wellington, N.Z.
We will take your old mount in exchange at a liberal valuation.


to bowl an off break and vary it as he liked from 3in. to
2ft. His season record included 10 for 0 and 8 for 2, but
he could not be prevailed on to leave his farm and go in
for first-class cricket.
* • * *
A reminiscence of Alec Bannerman. It was in
Melbourne years ago, and Alec was stone-walling as usual.
He had been in for half-an-hour, and had not made a run.
Presently he sent one towards the fence, and started to
run. Then someone in the middle of the crowd yelled,
“ Steady, Alec, for Heaven’s sake 1 ” This convulsed the
crowd, and even Alec smiled.
* ♦ * *
Melbourne Australasian follows the English
custom of alluding to professional cricketers without an
initial to their names. Thus “H.” Trumble’s average for
the M.C.C. in their Maoriland tour was 8.83, “Oaves
was 8.89. “H.” Graham’s batting average wasi 48,
“ Fry’s ” was 8. This silly distinction is not only snobbish,
but misleading. “Harry” Graham and “ Hughie
Trumble have got in “ expenses ” a deal more out of
cricket than Cave and Fry have earned in “ wages.”
* * * *
An erstwhile all-Australian champion jowler
Is now working as a mine-trucker.
Otago Rugby Union has decided that in future
no football-team in Otago shall be allowed to travel with-
out being accompanied by a responsible officer of the
Union—this in consequence of a “ not-proven ” charge of
“ drunk and obscene ” against the crack Kaikorai team
whilst journeying by rail to Christchurch.
* * * *
The usual big Vic. contingent was absent from
the annual tourney of Sydney Lawn Tennis Club, opened
Saturday. Gaden and Bice (N.S.W. champions) beat
Goddard and Irving (Vic. champions) for interprovincial
doubles supremacy—6-3, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4. Best tennis seen in
Sydney for years was supplied in match Rice (Metrop.
champ.) and Irving (Southern Dist. champ.). Both ex-
celled themselves, which is saying a heap. Pace was
hot from the jump, and the driving and net play sur-
prised everyone. Each had it all up throughout, so they
finished the second set and the match completely
pumped. Rice won.
vy • • * •
Only two crews (Church of England and Syd.
Grammar School) ranged up for the Championship Fours
at N.S.W. Great Public Schools’ Regatta on the Parra-
matta, Saturday. 0. of E. won easily, covering about 1
mile 650yds. in 8.21. Chance of previous holders (St.
Ignatius College) looked rosy, but, through illness of the
stroke, they had to stand out at the last moment.
* • • »
Two comers of big promise — Worboys and Tres-
gider—row a match in best-and-best boats over the
"Terrace” course (3 miles), Hunter River (N.S.W.), to-
day. Worboys, a big fellow, who, ’tis said, will take Jim
Btanbury’s place, gets 15sec. start; he is under Peter
Kemp’s mentorship, and has been with him for months.
Tressider —an undefeated man —has been schooled by
Nielsen on the Parramatta. He shows good form and has
staying powers of the first order. The result should intro-
duce another Australian champion.
• • • •
From l£d. to 2d., the first Australian scare price
for bubonic or presumed bubonic rats, is less than half the
price paid in London and Dublin for rats for terrier-
killing games. When rat-killing for gate-money was a
Bydney sport half a century ago, the average price paid
for rats was 6d., the price on important events going up
to Is. apiece.
* • * *
Coolgardie, when first visited by prospectors,
was ratless. There were a few mice, which mostly fell
victims to the “ goanna.” Six months after the township
was settled the rodents put in appearance at the early
public-houses and stores. A year later, a favorite local
Sunday pastime was rat-killing matches between dogs.
When Kennedy’s hotel was burnt hundreds of rats made
frantic efforts to clear balconies and other avenues of
escape.
♦ • • •
' The Dunlop Tyre Co. now report that they are
in a position to supply motor, cycle, or car builders with
their latest pattern Dunlop motor tyres and rims. The
tyres can be had in three sizes, viz., 26in., 28in., and 32in.
by 2£in. An illustrated brochure, illustrating the tyre
and rim, can be had free from the company, gratis, by
applying for it.
* • • »
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depfot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
In ordering that the price of rats be raised
from 2d. to Cd. the N.S.W. Premier has acted
sensibly. The authorities presumably want to
catch all the rats in the province, and two-pence a
head affords no inducement to people to go into
rat-catching as a business. A million rats at 6d.
would only mean £25,000.
Mr. Octavius C. Beale digs up from a
German scientific paper an effective-looking means
of rat-poisoning. Small fish are cut open, smeared
inside with phosphorus - paste, and laid in the
driest parts of the rodents’ haunts. “ The plan is
most simple, and probably succeeds so well because
rats cannot fail to see the bait, whilst the phos-
phorescence of fish would be to them a natural
phenomenon.”
The Acetylene Gas Company of Austra-
lasia, Ltd., is to be congratulated on its success
at the Royal Agricultural Show, having secured no
less than twenty-five first prizes for its exhibits,
consisting of automatic, non-automatic and port-
able generators, also buggy, miner’s, stevedore’s,
bandsmen’s, fireman’s, bicycle, table, hand and
other lamps for acetylene gas. Ordinary carriage-
lamps converted into acetylene lamps; correspond-
ence invited on all outdoor and indoor lighting.*
The 15-year-old prosecutrix in a recent age-
of-consent case at Ballarat (Vic.) tripped jauntily
into the box, and, after narrating the particulars
of the case, negligently observed that she had
been seduced before she was 12, had since “kept
bouse ” several times, had had two mishaps, and
was at last about to increase the population. And
after this crowded and varied experience the law
suddenly wakes up and discovers that this tender
innocent needs the “ protection !” of the criminal
code.
Valentine Bundy, the cook of the lost
Glenelg, is a stolid person, and at the inquest
gave his evidence with the impassiveness and the
stony accuracy of a mile-post. So long as a mile-
post is dead sure of the one thing it is its business
to know —that it is exactly a mile to the next post
—it will look on at any kind of tragedy unmoved.
Bundy was a sort of mile-post. He cooked the
last meal with his usual accuracy, and washed the
pots so that they might sink clean, and then he
turned in. Being called up with the rest to bale
the sinking vessel he came on deck. “ And what
was the first thing that attracted your attention ?”
asked the court. “ Nothing,” said the stony cook.
A howling ocean and a foundering ship were things
that some cooks might have noticed, but they
didn’t catch Bundy’s eye, so to speak.
The spread of the plague goes on slowly,
but surely, and the tackling of the rat population
of the Australian seaboard becomes day by day a
more urgent necessity. The importance of the
rat-element is being publicly recognised after
weeks of futile effort by the health authorities,
and even the city fathers are beginning to under-
stand the danger. The mischief, however, has
been already done. Melbourne, Adelaide, Free-
mantle, Albany, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Auck-
land all these show infected rats, and the
development among human beings, to a greater
or less extent, according to the sanitary
conditions and the vigor of the Govern-
ment measures, is merely a matter of
time. Melbourne wharves, particularly, swarm
with dead and dying rodents, although the fact
has not been made as public as it should be.
Unless imported direct, the first Melbourne cases
will come from the river population, and then the
Sng co’s will receive a shock compared to
the present falling-off of returns will be a
mere titillation. The writer ventures to tip a
lighterman as the first candidate for Melbourne
honors. Living a filthy life and spending his
time in endeavouring to dodge the very regula-
tions that are framed to protect him, the lighter-
man forms tempting bait for an epidenr \
“Every Swing of the Pendulum”
kv *
V
%
ADDS TO THE
REPUTATION OP
Derb\)
✓ .
TOBACCO.
SWEET,
FRESH,
FRAuRANT
PUT THIS IN YOUR PIPE AND SMOKE IT.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY COMPANY.
187 Pitt-street, Sydney 187 Pitt-street, Sydney
(directly opposite Civil Service Stores).
Novel, Tasteful
%*
Lucky Opal Heart Ring.
Any size. 16s. 6d.
Elegant Lucky Lace Ping, with Chain
and Bean or Heart, 7s 6d. Single
Pin, sa.
and Inexpensive.
•ssses&ss
vel Racquet Brooch, with Two
Pearls, 15s;
Single Racquet, with One Pearl, 10s 6d.
James Pain & Sons’ Imperial Royal Atlas Brand
. . . PRIZE LONDON . .
FIREWORKS! FIREWORKS!
QUEEN’S BIRTHDAY, 24th MAY. 45 Years before the Public QUEEN'S BIRTHDAY, 24th MAY
MYERS & SOLOMON, Solo Agents, 42 Market Street, SYDNEY^
g>r Send for Price List-
At Poverty Point.
William Marshall, the Melbourne theatrical printer, is
in a bad way, suffering from dropsy. The Profesh will be
sorry to hear this. Marshall’s readiness to assist struggling
companies with “ tick ” for their printing has made him a
popular identity these many years, and when he got burnt
out —at the time of the Bijou fire, wasn’t it ?—there was a
big rally of actors to give their old friend a complimentary
ben.
Mrs. Dante is just now in Sydney awaiting the arrival of
her late husband’s posthumous child.
Fritz Mueller, the wondrous boy-pianist from Mel-
bourne, is to be starred in London at a concert arranged
by the enthusiastic Melba, who reckons that the little
nipper will hit the cognoscenti very hard.
Melba denies that she was born in Scotland. Declares
that she first saw light in Burnley-street, Richmond, Mel-
bourne.
Ada Reeve had at latest divorced Bert Gilbert. It was
about time the couple parted. Their constant rows and
semi-public reconciliations made the public tired.
One set of English papers insinuated that a certain
clever lady had a hand in Haddon Chambers’ brilliantly-
successful play, “ The Tyranny of Tears ” ; shortly to be
produced in Sydney by the Broughs, for the first time in
Australia, while others suggested that Oscar Wilde had
a finger in the pie. Which made Chambers Wilde m
two senses.
The unladylike conduct of the Queen in smacking Essex
in the third act of “Queen Elizabeth” is, after all, not
quite so bad as it looks. Elizabeth was 68 then and Essex
34. So she doubtless lashed out at his ear in a motherly
spirit.
“ Tim B.” : Heard lecturer Chas. Clark for the first
time (in Wellington, M.L.) the other day. Subject:
“ Macaulay,” and peroration, picturing the funeral pro-
cession in Westminster Abbey, worthy of Macaulay him-
self. One of Clark’s anecdotes of Macaulay is a well-pre-
served old friend. The historian had been accustomed to
shave himself, but one day he submitted his chin to the
hands of a barber. The operation over, Macaulay asked
“how much?" “Oh, what you usually give the man
who shaves you, sir 1 ” “ That,” replied Macaulay, with
a smile, “ would be a gash on each cheek 1 ”
Pattie Browne, at latest dates, was said to have been
engaged by Arthur Roberts for a season at London Strand.
Nat Goodwin’s luck, at a pretty low ebb when he left
these shores, has taken a turn of late. His new show,
“ When We Were Twenty-one,” with himself and scrump-
tious Maxime Elliott in the chief parts, is coining money
around America.
Frank Denton, the promising young member of Charles
Arnold’s eo., is a parson’s son, and quite new to the busi-
ness. Sons of the church nowadays take to the stage as
naturally as ducks swim. The preacher is father to the
actor, in fact, most preachers are actors.
The natural and unaffected acting of J. L. Sheridan’s
four-year-old youngster in “ When the Lamps are
Lighted ” shows that all stage kids should be the pro-
geny of the manager. The usual infant-actor is a hope-
lessly artificial youngster, who by dint of drilling and
smacking has been taught to stand under the snow and
say, “ Me will go wif mama,” in the stilted style of an
amateur Hamlet. When not speaking he stands round
obviously uncomfortable and afraid to move for fear of
Subsequent trouble. Sheridan, jun., confident in the
knowledge that the old man is bossing the show, roams
round as he pleaseß, kicks the furniture, dirties his pinny,
and behaves for all the world like a kid in real life.
Theatrical managers ought to take warning, and always
be careful to have a family for use on such occasions as
these.
“Mac : Why doesn’t somebody instruct dainty little
Dorothy Vane in the art of making-up for the stage?
People who have seen her only on the stage decline to
believe that the delightfully pretty little woman pointed
out to them in the street is the one who nightly trans-
forms herself into a gorgon before the footlights.
Of all the alleged kiddie girls billed as “ Little ” in Pan-
tomime or variety-shows, Fanny Powers is undoubtedly
the youngest and brightest. Some of the others are on
the wrong side of 17.
A well-known Yankee actor-manager tells how Irving once
said to Wilson Barrett at a professional reception : “ Hullo,
Barrett, what are you playing now?” “Hamlet, replied
Barrett loftily. “ Hamlet, eh ?” sniffed Irving. Yes ;
Hamlet. Do vou think you are the only actor who can
play Hamlet?” “Not at all,” said Irving promptly-
“ but I know you are the only actor who can’t.”
A portly Melbourne solicitor and a gentleman friend
once picnicked for several days in tents, in a sylvan
retreat, with two well-known lady-singers. The man
of law had backed bills for the principal songstress.
The ladies took all the attention and gave mere smiles
in return. And Mr. Leges had to meet the bills. The
lawyer does not always score.
“Scriptus”: Local coloring was neglected by drama-
tists and novelists up to the time of Sir Walter Scott.
Shakespeare is a notable offender, and Milton did not
escape the vice. In “As You Like It the forest of
Ardennes is stocked with roaring lion 9 and Arcadian
shepherds and shepherdesses. Although all the charac-
ters ought to have been French, Touchstone and. Audrey
are regular English villagers, and no explanation is given
of the inconsistency. In “ Catherine and Petruchio ” the
housekeeper of the Italian couple is plain Mrs. Curtis. In
“Much Ado About Nothing” we have a regular English
watchman and English magistrate in the heart of Italy,
while the lower characters refresh themselves in an ale-
house in a country where wine would be the only bever-
age. There are also jokes about a hot January as a thing
impossible in Southern Italy, where a <*old January would
be the greater wonder of the two ; and a “ February
face,” meaning showery, in a climate where even February
is more kindly than April is in England. Sir Toby Belch
and Sir Andrew Aguecheek—in “Twelfth Night are
two downright English worthies although purporting to
be citizens of Illyria. In “ A Midsummer Night’s Dream,”
Theseus is Duke of Athens before Dukes were known;
and the pagan Duke applies the term “ nun ” to Hermia’s
intention of becoming priestess of Diana. In “ Measure
for Measure ” we find Italian names, although the scene is
in Vienna. The divine William, like the old painters who
represented the Prodigal Son in point lace, had never
heard of local coloring. [There is small doubt that
Shakespeare looked upon chronological and topographical
correctness as of little importance, so long as his presen-
tations had, in his own phrase, the “ touch of nature that
makes,” &c. He was right. Impertinent accuracy of
detail would have been out of keeping with the grandeur
of his conceptions ; and “ The Winter’s Tale,” for in-
stance, suffers nothing by the attribution of a sea-coast
to Bohemia.]
A musical composer liad a composition performed at a
church not many Sundays ago, and it is said that a day or
two previous to the performance hand-bills were printed
announcing that owing to the great success of the work
it would he repeated by General Desire. A certain well-
known Australian entrepreneur did the same thing with
a fiddler’s “first and only ” concert at a city Town Hall
some years ago. During the interval the ushers rushed
around with slips announcing that the fiddler had been
induced to stay and give another concert for the sake of
Musical Culture.
A very old document lately found in the municipal
archives of Helsingors, or Elsinore (Denmark), sets forth
that certain English actors whose names are given
behaved like larrikins in that town in 1555, and destroyed
a wooden fence, to the great indignation of the Danish
Bumble of the period. Some of the names are those of
people said to have been associated with Shakespeare, so
it is suspected that Shakespeare himself may have been a
frisky hoodlum in Denmark in 1585, and have gathered
geographical information for “ Hamlet ” on the spot.
Tom Fitzgerald, now on his way back to Australia with
a co., is bringing also the latest thing in war-biographs.
But where are the Fitz. Brothers going to stage their bio. r
“ Lyah ”: Not generally known that the “ What, ho I—
she bumps ’’ gag, now so much in vogue in Australia,
originated with Noah when the ark first touched bottom.
Whereupon there was much joy in the menagerie. Also,
the expression will probably be the very latest ever used
by mortal man when some day a huge pugilistic comet
biffs this conceited little planet into nothingness, and
Gabriel advertises in the S.M. Hhrald for a new globe to
be taken on trial, with permanent engagement if found
sober and truthful.
Perth (W.A.) has what is proudly termed a “ Zoo.” To
get there, you cross the river in a boat, the wheel of which
is situated right astern, behind an elevated deck that pre-
vents the captain seeing an inch ahead of his nose.
Therefore, being an ingenious man, he stands wrong way
about, and takes his bearings from the shore astern.
When he bumps into a sandbank he knows he has got
halfway, and waits patiently until the tide floats him off
to do the rest of the passage. In the course of time you
land and reach a turnstile entrance, through which, on
payment of sixpence, a melancholy person, apparently
overcome with the prevailing dismal ness of the place,
passes you in to view one lion, three guinea-pigs, two
small crocodiles, half-a-dozen parrots, a small ourang-
outang, one bear, three languid emus, one mangy ostrich,
a squirrel and some goats. The latter are in a small wire-
netted enclosure, which bears a finger-board with
“ Ladies ” on it; and the writer could swear they were
gentlemen goats ! The rest of the stock consists of empty
cages, the defunct inhabitants whereof visitors are still
requested “ Not to tease.” Truly, a cheerful spot 1
An evil-looking youth recently entered a Sydney shoot-
ing-gallery and enquired if the proprietor would sell him
a single revolver-cartridge “to fit this ’ere squirt,” pro-
ducing a sorry-looking weapon. The gallery-man, after
some trouble, found a cartridge to fit and charged 3d. for
it. “ Blime,” said the customer then, “ that’s all I want 1
One’s ernuff to do for the 1 ” —and he rushed ex-
citedly out. “ Searched the papers afterwards,” the
gallery-man said, “but I didn’t find no shootin’-case.
Must a-missed him. Pity l 'twould a-made a splendid
advt. for me gallery.”
“Sidelight”: Looking recently at a portrait of the
beauteous but tenuous Oora Potter in the character of
Rosalind, writer was reminded that for years she declined
the part on the ground that she was “ too womanly to
adopt male garb.” But when at last Mrs. P. did stage
“ As You Like It,” it became obvious that the thinness of
the excuse was fully equalled by the thinness of the lady’s
legs.
The courage of some girls 1 A principal member of
George Edwardes’ co. appears under her own name of
Lydia Flopp. Criticisms gravely refer to her as “ charm-
ing Miss Flopp.”
In a Sydney police-court dock, shoulder to
shoulder, last week, stood three drunks named
respectively Caulfield, Meagher and Norton —but
they were not the well-advertised trio.
Kalgoorlie, which offered £4OO for a coun-
cil clerk, had 157 applicants—4B from N.S.W., 42
from Vic., 20 from S.A., and 48 from Westralia
itself. Of the lot 11 were lawyers ; most of the
others were accountants or engineers. A Vic-
torian, E. E. Hawkins, got the job.
During cleansing operations in a busy
portion of Sydney last week a peculiar discovery
was made in the shape of a cartload of tobacco,
cigars, bottled beer, and cider. This little haul
was unearthed in an underground passage, where
it had evidently been placed by a smuggler some
15 years ago, as it is known that several iron bar-
ricades, not since shifted, were placed there about
that time.
N.S.W. judicial dicta : •
District Court Judge Murray {teste Solicitor R. H.
Levien, M.L.A.): “ A prisoner cannot be blamed for tak-
ing advantage of a loophole to escape from gaol.”
District Court G. C. Heydon, in the Benjamin
Bridge case:
While there is no moral indignation against a man for
escaping from gaol, still it constitutes flouting of the law
and consequently cannot be passed over.
There is not much difference between these pro-
nouncements, but the little there is should be
threshed out among jurists generally and a sound
uniform principle be affirmed. If it be ruled that
prisoners commit no offence, or only a formal one,
by effecting escape, gaoler and prisoner will realise
the relation, ana while the latter will not be a
worse prisoner the former will need to be a better
gaoler. Broadly, prisoners convicted in criminal
courts will stand in the same relation to their
gaolers that prisoners of war stand in to their
captors.
“D.C.L.,”
When applied to a man, is a high academic dis-
tinction. When applied to whisky, “D.C.L.”is
the highest distinction it can possess. “ D.C.L.”
(Black Bottle) Scotch Whisky is perfect.*
Just at present some people are in such a
state of hysterical exaltation over Jingo matters
that if you don’t pass the mustard quickly enough
they reckon it is an evidence of treason, and call
you a “pro-Boer.” Postmaster-General Watt, of
Victoria, has found that out. Apparently he re-
fused leave of absence to somebody who wanted to
go somewhere, or at least he did something to
somebody, or refused to do something—anyhow, a
silly female thought she saw in it an evidence
of “disloyalty,” and she called on Watt with a
shriek and a cane, and tried to batter him. Later
on, being interviewed, she cried out wildly
that she would die for her Queen and country.
The matter of the lady’s grievance isn’t very clear,
but it seems to be more or less connected with the
latest contingent the one that camped in the
mud and caught such a dreadful cold in the head,
and poor Watt, who spends most of his time try-
ing to find out why the Melbourne telephones
buzz so horribly, was held responsible.
PARMI LES DIEUX.
“Upwith the rag ! ” just hear them calling,
Struggling, stamping, whistling, bawling ;
Seats all taken up in Babel,
Room for half— then “ squeeze in Mabel.
“ Who’yer shovin’, you ain’t Beauchamp,”
“ Let ’em bustle me, I’ll teach ’em ! ”
“ ’Taint me, missus ! ” —“ Hush ! the curtain 1
“ That’s the ’eroine for certain.”
Givin’ ’er taffy ’bout the Future—
Ain’t it orlrite, don’t it suit yer?
Same old pathos—same sensation
Brings the final situation.
Villain hard of heart as Nero,
Fakes a charge—ten years for hero !
Sweetheart faints. All “ strike-a-picture.
Curtain ! Wot’s that ? Someone kicked yer
Turn the gas up, start the trade—
“ Epples, orange, lemonade ! ”
CIGARO.
“A TRIP TO THE RACES.”
(Human Races).
“ IMPERIAL ” Bicycles for 1900 just landed,
fitted with Westwood steel rims and Dunlop tyres.
Agents wanted where not already represented in
Australasia. Write for catalogue. Buy your bicycle
from the factory at factory prices.
A few Second-hand Machines .fitted with new tyres and in
good order, all of well-known makes. A post-card will
bring you a list. “ Duck ” brakes and carriers will fit
any bicycle. Oil and Gasoline Engines for launches,
electric lighting, pumping, cordial factories, printing and
general power, from 1 h.p. to 50 h.p.
J. F. McDermott and Company,
Sole General Agents in Aus. for “ IMPERIAL ” Bicycles.
Central Depot—37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Proprietor •’ - GEO. W. ELLIS.


Business, Robbery, etc.
The professional trade swindlers who played out
one or other of the Australias years ago, and have “ given
others a turn” in the interim, appear to be now
changing their quarters again. The stylish lady who,
when “things were booming” years ago, “landed”
almost every prominent retail trader in a big city, is back
once more. During her prior residence in that city,'she
acquired the art of renting a house at £lO a week (worth
10s. a week) from a confederate landlord, who regularly
sold-up for back rent such chattels as the lady might in-
duce tradesmen to deliver on credit. A confederate
auctioneer knocked down the goods for next to nothing,
to pre-arranged bogus-buyers and the grass-widow,
auctioneer and landlord whacked the profits realised
.when the goods were subsequently sold by the auctioneer.
The lady swindled tradesmen, at that time, and in that
way, for about £160) in seven months. As a married
woman she could not be summoned for fraud, and hubby
was always away “on his station in Maoriland” when
wanted. Now, her former debts are barred by the
Statute of Limitations, and, relying on new firms’ anxiety
for biz., and the forgetfulness of old creditors, &c., she
has a fair chance of “ducking” tradesmen once more
(Bulletin readers excepted). Verb sap. : Ware “ the
lady who comes into her inheritance three months
hence.” Beware also of the same lady when she tries to
allay your doubts (you may be mesmerised by her into
having no doubts whatever) by producing a bulky packet
of “family papers,” including an attested will in her
favor. That will has been annulled by a much later one
now in force, leaving her with her wits only, which are
keen and plentiful.
* « * •
Another artist who once came to grief through
“speculating” in station supplies, &c. (to the extent of
£5BOO in four months) which he promptly realised at a
huge loss—to the suppliers—inasmuch as they get noth-
ing in the £, is again on the job. This gentleman used to
have a free and merry way of buying (in various names) a
“going business”—no matter in what line so long as
there were saleable assets attached. He always bought
on long-dated bills, to be cancelled in one month from
date of purchase were the business or businesses found
by him to have been misrepresented. This proviso
inspired confidence. Busybodies often told him he had
“ paid too much,” &c., &c., but he always replied that he
“ could afford to drop a few hundreds.” Which was true
(in a sense) as he invariably sold out for cash at a heavy
nominal loss before the first of his own purchase-bills be-
came due. He recently bought (on bills) what was
described as a “ snug little agricultural area with com-
fortable homestead.” Elegant stationery and the com-
manding tone of his orders written on same have yielded
considerable plunder, so far.
A well-groomed pal of the aforesaid gentleman,
who also “ did time ” years ago, relies chiefly on the effect
produced by a big bundle of bank-notes (genuine and
bogus) which he carelessly hauls out when paying for a
“few little knick-nacks for my children,” who invariablv
accompany him. The initial purchases, although small,
are always 18-carat, and easily pawnable at a discount.
In paying for the goods (generally jewellery) he con-
trives to accidentally drop out of the bundle of notes a
genuine one of £5O ; allows the shopkeeper sufficient time
to pick up, appreciate its value, and to return same with
—u ria’ly—the expression of “ hoping for further patron-
age, &c. If the prospects, in his judgment, warrant it,
further and larger purchases follow later—on credit. The
(genuine) £5O note, with five genuine £1 notes, constitute
Jus stock-in-trade (all the other notes in the big bundle
are bogus). On a £55 capital he has thus secured (on
Judgment Day credit) quite £BOO of goods, that could be
readily realised for at least £350 cash. Traders, especially
jewellers, who have been “ had,” will regret to learn that
the gentleman cannot be charged with fraud, as he takes
care to make no verbal misrepresentation, but simply
rehes °P the impression created by “appearances,”
which (in this case) are, as the proverb says, “ de-
ceitful.”
• * • •
xr ?i le Pastoral and Agricultural Show societies of
N.S.W. backblocks keep the local newspaper men con-
stantly across their knees. Tenders for printing 1 a full-
page show advt. in two issues of the local rag—of course
there are always two or more rags wherever the P. and A
sits down—frequently reads thus : “£1 under the reptile
over the way, whatever his tender is.” A recent tender
read : “ Shall do the work for Is.”
* * * •
A much-embarrassed Southern city man saves
his own time and that of his many pressing creditors by
pasting this notice on his outer-office door: “To solici-
tors’ clerks, creditors, and other nuisances :—Writs, sum-
monses, notices of judgment and other aggressive docu-
ments served upon J.S. (my office-bov) will be accepted as
good and proper service on myself. ‘ Printed notices to a
similar effect will be handed to servers (if desired) by the
boy named. N.B.—Kindly close the door after you ; and
be sure to mind the step 1! ”
• * • •
Most of the insolvents now passing through
Melb. court are public servants, and the majority of those
are minor railway employes. In nearly every case the
schedules mention the same well-known set of money-
lenders. The debtors, as a rule, drift into court through
the good old railway habit of passing the tip along the line
when some jockey travelling with horses has blabbed the
secret of an alleged good thing. Civil service usurers
usually charge half-a-crown a month on £l, or 150 per
cent.
* • • •
Dog-ownera are fairly cornered in one Vic.
suburb. The local council employs a dog-catcher who is
paid so much a head per canine captured and destroyed
by him. The “catcher” notifies his friend “The
Inspector of Dog Licenses” for same suburb re the
removal of So-and-so’s dog, and the Inspector thence-
forward “ marks” Mr. So-and-so’s house for a new canine
arrival. When the new bow-wow arrives a “ license
notice ” is immediately served on the new owner by the
inspector, who reaps half the ss. license fee, which he
divides with his colleague (the dog-catcher). The dog
catcher had previously given a “cut” out of his
“catching” fees to the Inspector, who from his
special knowledge indicates easy captures. A sweet
arrangement!
« * * •
“ X.Y.Z.” : Know a suburban landlord who
receives rent (£2 10s.) monthly—and enters up in tenant’s
book, in two amounts (£1 7s. fid. and £1 2s. fid.), thus
saving twopenny stamp on receipt.
At last a man has been found guilty of gold-
stealing in Westralia, and sentenced by the Boulder
Court. The man got three months, and deserved double
for his clumsiness. Writer hid a good deal of experience
of the W.A. mines, especially the rich ones, and has seen
direct evidence of a large amount of gold - stealing.
Knew a man who declared he would pay £lO a
week to be allowed to work in a certain mine. After
about two years of it he retired and is now
a gentleman of means in Victoria. Some gold-
buyers of ' Boulder City and Kalgoorlie are rich
because they buy gold at from £2 10s. to £3 per oz., and
ask no questions. A £4-a-week mine-hand has been
known to spend £8 a fortnight on grog and put up a
house and furnish it, piano and all, inside of three
months after getting the job. A new-chum miner
working on the Australia got away with about 30
ozs., which he sold for £BO to an 1.G.8. The latter, a
German, said he only had a few pounds in the shop,
and gave the new chum three or four sovs., telling him to
call for the balance. When he did so the 1.G.8. said :
“ You one damn fool! You steal gold from mine ; I steal
from you. Get out!” And out the new chum wrathfully,
sorrowfully went. Not a few of the big men of the West
got their first lift by gold-stealing. Oh, for the good old
days of Bayley’s, when a majority of the hands used to
steal and no one suspected anybody.
* « *' •
A favorite haunt of the Sydney “ confidence ”
fraternity is outside the shipping offices. Here they keep
a sharp look-out for people who have booked passages,
because a victimised intending voyager is reluctant to re-
main to prosecute. The other day one of these gentry
spotted “his man” on Howard Smith and Co.’s wharf,
Sydney, where the s.s. Koonawarra lay alongside ready to
cast-off for Westralia. The confidence person noticed a
pen of stud sheep on board, and approaching the marked
passenger, inquired how far he was going ? To Perth.
Did he understand anything about sheep. Yes. Well,
the stranger explained that he owned those sheep, that
they were valuable, and that the man he had engaged to
take care of them had not turned up, and he was greatly
worried. Would the passenger look after them for a
fiver, and see that they were landed safely ? The other
willingly consented, and just then the signal to start was
given. “ Oh, I must pay you,” cried the sharper, and he
produced a roll of notes. “ Hang it, they’re all tenners,”
he said. “ Have you got change ? ” The flat handed over
five sovereigns, and received a “ flash ” £lO-note, though
he didn’t make that little discoverv till it was too late.
* » • »
Thus a Bendigo (Vic.) gold-buying Chow :
“Sposa man walka down stleet welly quick, looka my
shop winda, seeum one, two, tlee customa —go way.
Littee while come back, welly slow, findem shop empty,
lookem up stleet, down stleet —nobedee look see. Him
come in lookem tiightened, speakem welly quick—‘ Wha’
you give for gold?’ I giva that fella two poun’ ten
shillin’ one ounce. But sposa anodda man come, walkem
stlaightin, plenty customa look see, him no care ; talkem
welly loud—‘ Wha’you give for gold?’ I giva that fella
thlee-poun’-ten.”
* * * *
“ S. W.” : I fancy the only cheating in pak-a-pu
is in tiie shortness of the odds. ' I calculated them once,
and found that the £74 for 10 marks ought to have been
more than ten times, that amount. The system is 80
numbers : mark any 10. At the drawing the 80 numbers
are rolled in little balls and placed in a bowl ; roused
about; divided into four equal parts. Four blocks of
wood marked 1,2, 3, 4 are then wrapped in paper and
placed by any outsider on the top of each bowl. An out-
sider then grabs a handful of “cash” and lays it on the
t idle. This is raked by fours into a box and the
remainder being 0,1, 2 and 3 decide which of the four
2>’s is the “bank.” These 20 are then called out and
clerks mark “Banks” in red ink for distribution to the
public and the agents. If your 10 are all in these 20, you
get £74 ; if 9, £4O ; 8, t’2o; 7, £3 10s. ;6, 9s. ; 5, Is. 2d. ;
4,3, 2, I—nix. In Narandera a syndicate guarantees
£3OO, and that’s all they’ll pay, beginning with the fives
and so on. The bank has been bust and closed several
times. But not for long. It bobs up again, and they give
a handsome subscription to the hospital. I can’t see any
loop-hole for manipulating the numbers, and the Chows
themselves play.
• * * *
Chinese storekeepers are numerous around
Coonabarabran, Cassilis, Wee Waa, etc., and a certain
Sydney drummer, wishing to do good business amongst
them, got a Chinese merchant in Sydney to write him a
letter introducing his (the drummer’s) house. Translated,
however, the document set forth that “Messrs. Ah Cow
and Co. have in stock all kinds of goods, and supply coun-
try' storekeepers on liberal terms,” etc., etc. That bag-
man was quite surprised to find he was travelling for a
Chinese firm.
* * * »
Law-courts, when straining to be specially
solemn, are often producers of light comedy. In a suit
for salvage, Brown v. the ship South Australian, defendant
paid into the N.S.W. Court £lOO last October, which sum
plaintiff accepted. Counsel for defendant was willing to
pay' costs up to time of tender which plaintiff’s counsel
was satisfied with, but plaintiff’s coutise) held it was
necessary to apply' to the Court for costs, and the other
counsel held it was not. Justice Owen, in a long judg-
ment, held that it was necessary to apply' for costs, and
ordered the defendant to pay, in addition to the costs
both sides were agreed on, the costs of the application to
the Court to decide whether it was necessary to apply to
the Court for the costs that he could have got without
any application.
• * * *
An interesting question of income-taxability
was settled in Melb. Supreme Court recently'. Three
persons formed a business partnership on the following
terms : —That the share of each partner in the profits
should be carried to his credit each year subject to cer-
tain annual drawings therefrom and the amount carried
to credit should bear interest. The death of any partner
should not dissolve the partnership, but the survivors
should manage the business without any interference
from the executors of the deceased partner. Such execu-
tors should be paid annually all interest credited to
deceased, but should not be entitled to draw any
further moneys until the expiration of the partnership
term. One of the partners died, and during 18i)s
the surviving members of the triumvirate credited
his estate with some £l4OO representing his third
share of the profits, plus accrued interest. The executors
did not include this sum in the estate’s income-tax return
but the Commissioner claimed that, inasmuch as all money
credited to the estate would be receivable by the executors
in due course, these partnership-profits ought to rank as
“ income derived from the produce of property,” and be
taxed accordingly. Justice Hood quashed the Commis-
sioner’s claim ; he held that Death had diddled the I,aw
in this case. The late partnerduring his lifetime was sub-
ject to taxation of business-profits which had been added
to his capital, hut after his death he had no capital to tax.
The dead are stone-broke, as a matter of legal fact. Neither
are the dead partner’s executors subject to income-tax
upon capital which is added to the estate, and as for
the estate it is not an actual person, living or dead, there-
fore it can’t be taxed. Nor is the widow of the dead
partner, who draws all the income of his estate, anyway
taxable as regards profits that are not yet yielding any
income towards the said estate. The spectacle of the
Commissioner impotently coveting a tirx upon a genuine
income which is nobody’s income, and which will never
be taxable at all until it gets converted into property—
this was a spectacle that no kind-hearted judge could gaze
upon unmoved. There were tears in his Honor’s eves
when he dismissed the Commissioner with costs.
THE PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION Ltd
WOOL & PRODUCE SE3L.LIKTG BROKERS.
Heame’s Bronchitis Core.
TBCB FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BBWARB OB COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
Smelting' Co. of Australia
(LTMTTEP),
DA.FTO (I.alte Tllawarra), near SYDnSTBY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
FrtOPUCBJEtS
OF
FINE SILVER.
m
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
rcliasei s of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LLnD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLIO I
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin P L \cf SYDNEY
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected,—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD for
INFANTS
'V
H'.'-V
iZi.
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Hi r z RaSSn7<iSSci)’& Alfalioe Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL BE MED Y EOB EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
f r. C. J. A. NIELSEN.
▲ Living Witness ol the virtues of tbs
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12,1893.
To Burr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
whicl completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
whicA has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and It has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
Solatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
176 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir;— Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint, of the liver and kidneys, for which' I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Aifaline Vitaiiuy Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may-
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note it) the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health’’-Free.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
OST OPP
utiTilUllfiliin l.i n U'i f; 7TTI' V ITTtTi rPHTi (i.riTTTtTTUiMurn.'muin
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Aif aline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete for aU
Affectionß of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no^matter how caused or of how long standing. P BOXES, 6s. and 12.5„ posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d„ posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
A IF ALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES They remove any' Taintt or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, nouble
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Poweiful Double
Course. 435. 6d.
ALF ALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35.. and 65.. posted.
AlfalineTJniversal Pills
are an Infallibb Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING-••
Patrons of Herr Rass-
Herbs any where.
m
nerr fiossmussen, (Jp-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmnssen
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing ivluney.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmiisseil>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Klizaheth-
street. Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: —
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herb Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
Lut most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for t oughs, Colds, consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System. Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts—Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.


Editor Bulletin. — S.M. Herald war-
correspondent, “ Banjo ” Patterson, says it is
impossible to dodge shells, because the shell
travels faster than the sound of the discharge,
while correspondent MacDonald tells how the
Ladysmith people became, during the siege, quite
expert in evading shells. Who is correct ? —S.
[Warning was given at Ladysmith the moment
the smoke of the discharge was seen.]
Ed. Bulletin. tie magisterial vagaries.
At a Sydney suburban police-court, the other day,
the presiding S.M. asked a witness whether it
was a peneral rumour that it was defendant’s dog
that frightened plaintiff’s horse and thus caused
him to bolt and kill himself. Witness said “ Yes,”
whereupon Solon expressed himself as satisfied
that said dog ivas the culprit, and sentenced the
owner accordingly. Thus was “ general rumour ”
—to wit, hearsay—allowed to outweigh the direct
testimony of four or five witnesses to the con-
trary. How’s that for the law of evidence !
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
A Westralian paper, published on a rival
goldfield, calls Coolgardie “The Beggar City,”
and goes for it in this fashion ;
, Like a decayed lady in her tattered finery, the boom
city of Coolgardie vainly endeavors to keep up the appear-
ance of respectability on an empty pocket and with no
visible means of support. Not long ago a deputation of
big bugs from Wildcatopolis, consisting of the flower and
aristocracy of the place, waited on a long-suffering Pre-
mier to air their grievances and ventilate their wants.
When Sir John goes up to Coolgardie, he wears a placard
on his coat-tails, “ Ask and ye shall receive.” There is no
trouble about the asking, for this particular electorate has
been spoon-fed for a long, long time at public expense.
The deputation brought up that very smellful transaction,
the Great International Exhibition that Coolgardie made
of itself last year, and, as usual, wanted more money to
pay off old debts, They want to turn the Exhibition
Building into a School of Mines, and the tax-
payer is to put up £3500 the first year and
£l5OO per annum afterwards to keep it going.
The Council also want £lOOO refunded that they
put up as a bluff for the show so that the
Ministry could straddle the blind and go some
better. A cannery for potted wild cat would suit the
surroundings better, for what Coolgardie don’t know
about mines and their flotation is hardly worth knowing.
The whole thing was a bluff. The town council offered to
put up £3OOO if John would give £5OOO. John promised
it, and, as he himself told the deputation, he finds
the council only put up £lOOO, and now wants it back.
The cast-iron cheek of Coolgardie would do credit to a
book fiend. Kalgoorlie asks for next to nothing. It goes
on its own bottom, while Coolgardie clutches wildly at
the Premier’s coat-tails to prevent itself slipping down
into the abyss of financial and commercial oblivion that
yawns beneath its feet. And three and a half millions are
being squandered to take the mountain to Mohammed
since Mohammed Won’t come to the mountain. A high
price for a drink of water indeed 1
Chiefly Concerning Pipes.
In toe not very long- ago there was only one pipe, and
meerschaum was the material of which it was made. But
all that has passed like the baseless fabric of a drink-
begotten dream. The pipe of the present day is the Briar
pipe—that is the only true pipe, and no other. The fan-
tastic superstition was that when the smoker mouthed his
meerschaum he drew his vaporised tobacco through solidi-
fied foam of the sea, whereas it was merely a prosaic,
chalky substance, found somewhere in Asia Minor, which
substance was very easily broken and a source of perpetual
worry. The pipe that has ousted the crumbling meer-
schaum is made of the root of the Bruy ire shrub, which
grows chiefly along the shores of the Mediterranean. The
roots are dug up, boiled, dried, and cut into square
blocks and shipped to various parts of the world. The
chief centre of the pipe-making industry was a town some-
where in the Jura Alps, in France, but of recent years an
enterprising English firm has started a factory in London,
and it is from that factory that the world-famous
'B N
BB
pipes, the true and only pipes, the real
successors and superiors of the dead and
gone meerschaum, come. And the man
who wishes to be truly happy in his
> moke has only to buy a pipe bearing
the cabalistic sign aforementioned, and
the words “own make,” to be certain
that there is nothing in the world or the
harem of the Sultan of Turkey that is
better. Originally, amber was the material chiefly used
for the mouthpieces of the best pipes, and it is still re-
garded by the old school as the material “ par excellence,”
but it is brittle, and liable to get broken in the pocket
when the smoker ceases to puff and takes to hugging girls
under the stars, or by the blushing lights of the deserted
parlor, whence all but the lovers have discreetly retired.
So the co., having hugged and suffered, adopted the vul-
canite mouthpiece, which, when made by hand of sheet
rubber, is as elegant as, and more pleasant to the touch,
than amber, and practically unbreakable, unless the owner
falls under a steam-roller, in which case the breaking of
the mouthpiece doesn’t matter. When the smoker has
got his briar, he should only half-fill it and smoke it
indoors till it has got nicely crusted. The crust should
not be removed with the knife, but with a properly-con-
structed bowl-scraper, which will take it out without
injuring the seasoned skin of the wood. The bowl-scrapers
are inexpensive, and the difference the use of them makes
in the flavor and seasoning of the pipe is enormous. Tiie
Bulletin will now proceed to light up its own crusty
volcano, and bless the seed of the man who started that
fact ory in London.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
m
m
i
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of Vest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
T. A.. QXJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
Amusements.
ALEXANDRA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
** Under the sole management of Mr. William Anderson.
SECOND WEEK OF
THE IMMENSELY SUCCESSFUL NAUTICAL DRAMA,
Naijds Across tbs Sea.
Mr. Alfred Woods, Miss Maud Williamson,
and a Powerful Dramatic Organisation.
PRICES: 3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, and SIXPENCE.
Plan at Allan’s. Gen. Bus. Man., Mr. CIIAS ENDE.
gT. GEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE.
>n RUSSELL BROS. MUSEE :<
NEW WAXWORKS and AMERICAN VAUDEVILLE.
THE FLYING JORDANS, Prof. W. A. DAVIS,
and Complete Variety Co., Every Afternoon and Evening.
ALWAYS OPEN TO ENGAGE OR PLAY ON
TERMS anything New and Good.
Manager, W. A. DAVIS.
Business Announcements.
“PRIMUS”
BATH
HEATER.
Fov J£.KItOSFNE. A. Hot- Sliowev iiHtnediattslf/,
m
r:-:
. . HOT WATER INSTANTLY . .
No Chimney Pipes or Plumbers’ work required in flxintr.
You can fix it yourself. NO FUMES. NO SMELL.
PRICE : With 2-Burner Kerosene Gas Stove—without
Shower, 755. ; vvith Shower, 955. Price with 3or 4
Burner Kerosene Stove, 10s. per Burner extra.
“PRIMUS” ROOM WARMERS can be fitted to any Kero-
sene Gas Stove. Price (made of Steel), Xss. each :
Brass, 255.
BRANDT BROS.
238 PITT STREET.
SYDNEY;
And 422 and 424 Elizabeth-st., MELBOURNE.
‘ DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Hre you Too Stout
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALINC REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
I
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8 sharp. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
NANCE O’NEIL SEASON.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, 3rd MAY,
The Famous Historical Play,
“ELIZABETH, QUEEN OF ENGLAND.”
Another Great Histrionic Success 1
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Under the Direction of Mr. R. BROUGH.
Return to Sydney, for FIVE WEEKS only, of the
OBROUGH COMEDY COMPANY
LAST TWO NIGHTS I
TIIE MANOEUVRES OF JANE.
SATURDAY, May 5, THE LIARS. Six Nights Only.
Matinee Every Thursday, at 2.
PRICES AS USUAL. .\ Box Plan at Elvy’s.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS!
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
including Miss DORA DE WINTON
and Mr. JOHN D. SAUNDERS, in the Quaint Melodrama,
“THE IRISHMAN.”
Saturday, May 5, A Soldier and A Man. 12 Nights Only.
Prices as Usual. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.45.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
"JHE AUSTRALIAN CONTRALTO^”
Miss CAMILLE S€RS
pr Y.M.C.A. HALL, Pitt Street, BYDNEY,
WEDNESDAY, 9th MAY.
Plan at Paling’s. 3S. t 25., IS.
J. EDWARD SYKES.
QRITERION THEATRE, BYDNEY.
V Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfrhd Dampikr.
EXTRAORDINARY ATTRACTION!
REAPPEARANCE „„ 7| I J r.
REAPPEARANCE op AllTCd PdlDpiQT
The “ Most Popular Actor in Australia ”
AND HIS FAMOUS DRAMATIC COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT I TO-NIGHT!
Robbery XJntler ALrma.
Captain Starlight .. Alfred Dampier.
Supported by the Full Strength of the Company.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee & Proprietor, Mr. Orpheus M. MoAdos.
THRONGED TO THE DOORS NIGHTLY 1
LAST NIGHTSI . A Signal . UNCLE TOM’S
LAST NIGHTS! ; Triumph. • CABIN.
. . . The Finest and Most Original . . .
Interpretation EVER SEEN in Sydney.
LAST NIGHTS 1 Mr. Orpheus M. McAdoo’a
GENUINE NEGRO COMBINATION in
“ UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.” A Revelation to All
PRICES : 3»., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling's
-|-HE NEW TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
Gigantic Success! A Great Triumph ! The Greatest
Company of Stars ever brought together.
PAUL MARTINETTI and His Company.
Mr. TOM BROWNE. THE NEWSKYS.
JAS. BAIN. DAVE OASTON. FRANCIE ADLER.
And all our Great Company.
R»IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
INSTANTANEOUS and EMPHATIC SUCCESS of the
Great Ludwig Amann a £ t fi r £| d F a a y cial
Mr. TOD CALLAWAY, LITTLE FANNY POWERS,
Prof. ALMOND, Champion Specialty Dancer.
IRENE FRANKLIN, America’s Piquant Comedienne.
CHAS. SEEL, Miss MAUD NEEDHAM, Prof. DAVY’S
MARIONETTES, POPE and SAYLES, E. SULLIVAN
DORA TAYLOR,and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co!
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
-pH EAT RE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Under the Sole Management of William Anderson
SECOND WEEK !
SUCCESS PRONOUNCED AND BRILLIANT I
* THE LADDER OF LIFE .
Or, Gordons to the Front.
Specially Selected Company. Military Pageant. Storm-
ing of Dargai Heights. Acrobatic Sensation of the Age
THE HUMAN LADDER. ’
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THIRD WEEK OF
CHARLES AHMOT.tt
And His English Comedy Company.
340 Nights at the Strand Theatre, London.
“What Happened to Jones.”
Preceded by “ AN EMPTY STOCKING.”
IF IT HURTS YOU TO LAUGH,
DON’T SEE WHAT HAPPENED TO JONES.
XX
XX
g
XX
XX
XX
XX
IP you are dissatisfied
with your Draper call in or write to us for
our New Season’s Patterns and Prices.
HORDERN’S lead the van.
A l£d. Post will place you p J 4-- 0+
in communication with us. ■ 111 O l
FOR
EVER.
Please Mention The Bulletin.
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X X X X xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X XXX xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
LJVDIES !
“ Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6(1
to SOs each. English Hair Tails, from 6s 6d to t'3 3s eaoh.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Hu plan
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Koyal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Ever}’ requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEM,
New South Wale# . . ,
Barbers’ Supjily House
680-2 &3orge-st.,
SYDNEY.—
A SILVER WATCH
for NOTHING.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady's or Gentleman’s) to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading: of the fol-
lowing PUZZLE: —
S*F* R*T*RN T* O*R B**V*
B*S* B*Y*
The only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver
Chains to wear with the watch.
BEND NO MONEY, simply forward your answer and
enclose stamped and addressed envelope, so that we
may inform you if you have won a watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
Nelson, N.S.W., 7/4/1900.
Dear Sir.—l am exceedingly pleased with the Watch
you sent me. It keeps perfect time. I will recommend
your Arm to my friends.
J. HESSON.
ADDRESS—THE MANAGER,
The London Watch & Jewellery
COMPANY,
13 CENTRAL ARCADE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
proper treatment all Diseases can be
CURED !
bnt not all patients, and this depends entirely on
tlie condition of the digestive organs, which, if in
perfect order, will be the means of producing rich,
pure blood. Then you can laugh at disease. But
if in an imperfect state they cannot perform their
duties, and impure, weak blood is the result.
Hence the origin of innumerable diseases. In
treatment, the main object should be to remove
the cause—not the result, that will leave 6f its
own accord. Some men are specialists in all
diseases, and can cure anything and everything,
but the undersigned only professes to cure. Two
Diseases, viz., INDIGESTION and RHEUMA-
TISM ; and in this city there are abundant proofs
in the persons of commercial and prominent
gentlemen who were affected in the very
worst forms. My method is—One Remedy
FOR
One Disease, and daring my long experience I
have met these diseases —resulting in Constipa-
tion, Spinal Troubles, Contracted Muscles, Stiff
Joints, Asthma, Chronic and Acute Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Lumbago, Gout, Neuralgia, Liver and
Kidney Troubles, etc.—not only in persons walk-
ing about, but on their backs and m their beds.
Stiff from head to foot, locked fast, immovable
and disfigured, with but one desire, viz., that they
may die. These are the cases that I have grappled
with, and have cured with the Remedies winch I
will send to any part of the globe on receipt of
ONE POUND!
with full particulars. The digestive organs are
made healthy, the stomach, liver and kidneys
thoroughly cleansed, then the food makes rich
blood, and disease takes not only a back seat, but
clears out altogether.
ARTHUR MALCOLM, Specialist,
169 Grafton Street, yVoollahra,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
‘<• ,4'* <. ' S- .
■ *•■ . .. •■•
.. " -.r. ,
''JUUST -*i
«wcr-?r «p]
f> •
>
«*!
.
? '• a-
■*r-
ste;
3c.
These fine store premises are being erected for the CO-OPERATIVE WOOL AND PRODUCE CO., LTD, at Pyrmont, after a design by the well-known
Sydney architect, Mr. HERBERT E. ROSS, Equitable Buildings, George-street. They are to have a capacity of 30,000 bales.
The Co-Operative Wool & Produce Company,
X LIMITED, 1
12 & 14 O’CONNELL STREET, STDNET.
Srcretarv : WALTER BROOME.
Managing Director : PETER LESLIE.
Wool Manager : WILLIAM ROBERTSON.


Medical.
ECZEMA OLEAC
Discovered bv Christopher Mudd, K.L.S., the
Prince of Wales’ Botanist.
Cures this terrible itching complaint. Sot a
Grease. Does not Stain the Linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6; post, 4/10.
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
Chemists, or direct from the
COrONIiL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred j.E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melbourne
••••••••••••••••
09C9005
I Cure Pits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my !
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. ROOT, sB, Endslelgh Gdns., LON DON.
Does This
MEAN
YOU ?
Bankers, Brokers, Insurance Men, Olerks, Collectors,
Letter Carriers, ltailfoad Men, Tram Men, and all who are
much on their feet, tire themselves needlessly when they
refuse to use this gentle, efficient support. The man with
the SUSPENSORY on will feel about half as tired and
about twice as good at night as the one who does not
wear one. A SUSPENSORY effectually prevents that
utterly fagged-out feeling which is so familiar to those
who stand and walk a great deal. A savage does not
wear a hat, civilised man finds it better to do so : in-
creased comfort conics with increased knowledge. The
first thing a SUSPENSORY does is to bring a comfortable
feeling of support and lightness to the wearer, feels as if
he could run and jump easily, and if he does run and
jump he will find it fatigues him less than usual.
We have been saying “A” SUSPENSORY. What we
really mean is an
0 OLD
P POINT
Q COMFORT
SUSPENSORY
RMJER&BIM*
ChicSß
TAKE THE O.P.C.
Satisfaction goes with it sure. Recommended by the
Medical fraternity throughout the world. Send for
Booklet, FREE.
PRICES.
No. 2 —0.P.0., Lisle Sack, Elastic Bands ~ .. 6/-
No. 3 „ Silk „ „ .. •• 57-
No. 4 „ „ „ Silk „ .. 9h
No. 5 „ Fancy „ „ Fancy Silk Elastic Bands 12/6
Three Sizes—Large, Medium, and Small.
OF ALL CHEMISTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,
or by post, under plain sealed cover, on Receipt of Price.
§)•“ Sold under a positive guarantee to give satisfaction.
BAUER & BLACK, Manufacturers, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Australasian Office :
117 Clarence-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
HEALTH ANP STRCN<STH
“ * may be secured without inconvenience or attention
on the part of the person taking Dr. HOPE’S LIFE
SYRUP (liquid or pill form). Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day to day. Are you a. Sufferer from bad health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are youi
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated 1
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
Life Syrup Will Cure You.
Price 101- and 80/- ; Course 40 j-
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis-
orders are cured, and in many cases by diet alone, posted
six stamps. Address :—HOPE MEDICINE CO., 14E
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
ASTHMA cure
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AD LT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Business Announcements.
FRINGE
tfttaro! Curl;, frem S/8
PLAITS and TAILS
Wn. long, 6/0. all real
CUTTINGS « COMI
(•ortied up, yt per oz.
W# are too oheapeMi
trails for All Hair Work.
Send Color ot Hair. '
W. H. Wigzgll,
1 tlO WtliUM SmBET.
eoroer of Palmerotreet,
SYBNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
} ifW
_ jBfnd «tamj>B (or toll Prioe Unt>
to OoanUy Ordtm
The Life of the System.
■mil STL
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPiSTITION.
WINES
Tlie Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
Price, £7.
THIS MACHINE
Carriage Paid.
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
Also on Sale —
1 Edison Cinematographs complete and 10
Films, £5O.
1 Cinematographe and 10 Films, £35.
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune for a
smart man.
2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each. Bargain
Edison X-Ray Outfits, complete.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia — EPISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
Removed to 1 and 3 Rowe Street. (120 PITT STREET), SYDNEY (ONLY).
W. J. N. Oldershaw, Manager. Nearly opposite G.P.O.
1
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
iDINNEFORDSI
'MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
Sold Throughout the World. f .
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
SPARKLING
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared with this
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Agents: BLAKEY & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 418 George Street, Sydney.
*Vhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
*Vhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL) APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. a.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
___ Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
aiiafhments 3 8 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
For what you are about to re-
ceive, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE. Follow
the Footsteps of the Wise, and Buy the Best, Cheapest
and most Stylish Clothing in Australia from ’
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
252 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station).
5000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to Order, at 42/-,
is marvellous value, made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Series, fast colors,
is perfect fitting-, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84'-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cycling Suits, 35/-
Riding Breeches, 25/-. Water-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Riding Habits, etc.
Wesupply Ready-made Men’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-. Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over-
G
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys' Olothinjr in Australia. Kle.
pant Tennis Shirts from 2/6. Undressed VVhito Shirts,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm Travelling
Rufrs, 13 6. Gent’s splendid Balmoral Boots, 66, 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hats, 46, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 66. Caps, 1/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1/-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. And all
classes of Gent.’s Mercery.
We like to write letters, so please don’t be afraid to ask
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy of Dress,
also Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
posted Free. Write for them.
Publications.
SKIN DISEASES ..and..
z-—:. ——— Their Treatment.
ACNE, ECZEMA, PSORIASIS, Ac.,
By Dr. ALFRED NEALE (M.D., M.8.C.M., Ed.),
Late Physician to Manchester Skin Hospital.
SYDNEY : TURNER and HENDERSON. Post 1/1.
j-jrsmnaMVta -
Tales of Medical Students.
By Dr. Hodgson, of Sydney. Just Issued
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, 3s. 6d. Post Free, 4s.
Wholesale Agents : Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
Books. Books. Books,
POPULAR EDUCATOR—£S for £1 ss. The Homo
Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for £l. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for 6s. 6d. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, 10 vols.,
£7 10s. for £2 15s. The History of Australian Bushranp-
intr, Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper.
R.W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereaffh streec, Sjdnev.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
TT.T.TTS
Auui e»s, i Ki v ATE,
TRAXED
TTITITH numerous anatomical
’ ' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
>2Ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET of ßO R o A K R s E
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPEDIA.
XI nature has not gifted you with words and manners that;
win hearts, The Ix>vers' Encyclopiedia wll supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate" and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chanters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other tnings heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps, 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness with one you love. Anglo-Amekioan Publishing
to., Commercial Chambers, Sydney. N.S.W. Mention thia
paper when writing
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1 6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.


T
:s
RELIABLE TIMEKEEPERS.
Beware of Imitations.
S. I). & Oo.’s Special Value in Waltham Lever Watches,
has best-finished movement, enamel dial, gold hands, heavy
hunting Hall-marked silver cases, and is recommended as a
Reliable Timekeeper. £3.
S. D. <& Co.’s “Derby” Double Chronograph gives an
instantaneous record of any event in minutes and seconds ; the
movement is f-plate lever, jewelled in rubies, fine chronometer
expansion balance, Brequet spring. In Solid Silver Cases, open
face, £6 10s.; Hunting, £7 10s. ; in 18-ct. Gold Oases, open face,
£2O; Hunting, £22.
S. D. & Co.’s “ Eclipse ” Watchca lu.ve finest quality f-plate
full-capped, dust-proof movements, jewelled in 8 holes. Extra
heavy sterling silver cases, and are perfect timekeepers. The best
watches at the price ever sold. In Hunting Cases, £2 ; Crystal
Front, £1 10s.
S. D. & Co.’s-Ladies’ Silver English
Lever Watches. Has fine-finished
capped jewelled movement, En-
"'•■rt Silver Cases, £3 10s.
S. D. & Co.’s Gent.’s Gold Keyless Hunting;
Lever Watch has fine-quality f-plate lever
movement, jewelled in rubies, chronometer ex-
pansion balance, perfect keyless winding, strong
18-ct. Gold Cases, £l5 10s.; in open face, £l4 10s. ;
size smaller, £l2 10s.; in Hunting Oases, Solid
Silver, £2 10s.
The “Triumph” Watch, for Gentlemen or
Youths, is a Gigantic Triumph over any other low-
priced watch already in the market. Polished
Nickel, keyless, short wind, 18s. 6d.
S. D. & Co.’s Lady’s “Eclipse” Sil*
ver Watch has finest quality 3-plate
movement, jewelled in 8 holes, beauti-
fully Engraved Case, elegant tinted opal
dial, a perfect timekeeper, £1 10s. ; in
Hunting Cases, £2. Warranted for 2
years.
S. D. & Co.’s 18-ct. Gold Keyless “ Prin-
cess ” Watch has finely-finished
jewelled movement, strong-, solid 18-ct.
Gold Engraved Cases, perfect keyless
action, £5-10s. ; Half-Hunting, £6 ; open
face, £4 10s.; also in Silver Half-Hunting
or Full-Hunting Cases, £2 10s.; open face.
£2. Warranted for 2 years.
D. & Co.’s English Hunting Lever Watches contain special patented improve-
ments, ensuring durability, timekeeping, and freedom from accident in wear. The movements
are full-capped, dust-proof, jewelled in rubies, and the cases are Strong Sterling Silver, Hall-
marked, £3 10s. Warranted for 3 years. Special quality, with chronometer expansion
balance, and 3 pairs extra jewels, £4 10s.
Rotherham English Lever, Hunting Silver Key-wind, £4 10s.
8. D. <fe Co.’s Ladies’ Magnificent 18-ct. Gold
Keyless “Nonpariel” Watches are
truly a speciality amongst specialities,
much recommended to ladies who desire
a unique, compact and elegant inexpen-
sive Gold Watch. The entire watch is
most exquisitely finished, fine full
jewelled movement, 18-carat Gold Strong
Cases, perfect keyless action, convenient
and reliable. Hunting Cases, £7 10s. ;
open face, £6 10s. Warranted for 3 years.
S. D. & Co.’s “Excelsior” Keyless English
Lever is unsurpassed by any watch. It is compact,
convenient and reliable, dust and damp-proof, has
best |-plate movement, full jewelled in rubies ; real
chronometer balance, heavy Hall-marked Silver Cases,
each guaranteed for 5 years, £6 10s ; in heavy 18-et.
Gold Cases. £22 ; open face, £lB 10s.; also made Key-
wind Hunting,in massive Silver Cases, at£s. Strongly
recommended. Siluir Keyless Hunting Rotherham
English Levers, £6 10s.
S. D. & Co.’s Lady’s Gold Keyless Wal-
tham Lever Watch, With best
finished 3-plate movement, patent safety
barrel, expansion balance, jewelled, strong
solid Gold Engraved Hunting Cases, per-
fect keyless action, sunk seconds, and
enamelled dial, £6105., exceptional value ;
Silver Cases, £3 55.; open face, £3.
M
'>IC
mmm
sole
S. I). & Co.’s Ladies xo-cr. Gold Key-
less f-plate Levers, in beautifully
engraved or plain cases, fine full-jewelled
movements, chronometer balance, and all
latest improvements, are thoroughly re-
commended. Each watch warranted for
5 years. Open face, £lO 10s. ; Hunting,
£l2 10s.
m
mm
a
■ sm
'Mam
S. D. & Co.’s Gent.’s Keyless Waltham Lever
Watch, finest quality J plate movement, fitted
with patent safety barrel, expansion balance,
Brequet spring, heavy Government Hall-marked
Silver Hunting Cases, £3; in 10-ct. Gold Cases,
£9 10s.; 14-ct. Gold Cases, £lllos. ; 18-ct. Gold
Cases, £l6 10s.
Any of the Watches illustrated above will be sent, securely r -.ted and Post Free, on receipt of remittance.
412 George Street and Strand, Sydney, N.S.W
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. PERTH. AUCKLAND. WELLINGTON. LONDON.


Simeon Cadden’s Obituary
Poem.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Simeon was dead. The exigencies of the hilarious
Yuletide, when man is imbued with festive spirit,
and moved to “shout "from dawn till midnight,
and overrate the cubic capacity of his brother
combined with the wear and tear of earlier
wassail on a constitution enfeebled by damp gut-
ters and chronic “dyspepsy”-had proved too
many for the husband and father, and he was
gone into the illimitable “over there.” He came
home one night late in the old year, with afurtive
slinking stride ; his eyes were red and wild, his
body was bent as if shrinking from an invisible
horror, his hands fluttered aimlessly before him
and his scalp twitched weirdly. The night was
wet and windy; Simeon was followed into the
warm room by a rush of cold air and ram, and his
relatives wondered much at his awed appearance.
When he endeavored to hide himself behind a
chair, as if unconscious of their presence, they
became fearful and questioned him . 10 s
coming? Why don’t you shut the door?” they
queried, anxiously. Mr. Cadden peered stoni y
between the railings of the chair. Hush ! e
said in a whisper; then, gazing with terrified ex-
pectancy out into the night and intensifying t le
mystery, he murmured: “What’s the good of
shutting the door? They’ll come down the
chimney ! ”
Simeon was put to bed and tended with all
care. For some time his old father remained by
his side, to ward off the ring-tailed wallabies, the
grinning diprotodon, the blue and yellow ichthyo-
saurus, the rampant megatherium, and the many
other children of his sons pleasant fancy. If left
alone for a moment he crawled under his couch, en-
deavored to crowd up the chimney, or armed him-
self with fire-irons and coursed pre-historic monsters
throughout the house and into the street, howling
the while with inhuman ferocity. On the morn-
ing of the third day he died. “ Dyspepsia, ” the
doctor said, with the gravity peculiar to doctors
plain, unvarnished dyspepsia. Mr. Cadden was
upholstered in a pretentious coffin, bedecked with
flowers and enthroned on a parlor table; and the
family settled down to its great grief, llie house
was darkened, and tears were in the air, and the
sound of muffled footfalls and half-stifled sobbing
mingled with faint, far-off shrieks of merriment
coming from the backyard, where the juvenile
Caddens, unimpressed by the solemnity of the
occasion, were taking advantage of the general
neglect to drown the domestic feline in a pie-dish.
It was at this moving moment that Simeon’s
ancient parent called a convention of the house of
Cadden to meet about the remains of the late
Cadden and devise and build a lofty obituary
poem, to commemorate, in words that burn, the
virtues of the deceased, and apprise the world that
his relatives were left lamenting at the prospect of
never meeting his like again.
The idea was received with every manifestation
of approval. The Caddens felt that they would
be wanting in their duty towards the defunct if
they failed to rise to a lofty pitch of poetry, and
duly advertise their sorrow, and assert the in-
dubitable conviction that Simeon was sporting on
the Golden Shore, endowed with the orthodox
Celestial attributes. Indeed, the sentiment of the
age seems to regard the omission of the usual verses
af an act of indecency, and to look upon,the un-
sung deceased as one likely to meet with suspicion
and^superciliousness amongst the better m
Paradise. Simeon was not a poetic subject a-Dante
might have found inspiration for his muse m those,
visions of uncouth preadamite monsters previously
mentioned, but to an amateur, Mr. Cadden pre-
sented no points to inspire the flow of smooth and
musical numbers. He had been a small yeUow
man, with vacillating knees, thin red whiskers a
nose highly inflamed at the base and azure at the
apex, and he had watery blue eyes and receding
chin. Among his other assets were an apologetic
manner and an obtrusive air of having slept last
night in the dog-kennel. His morals he held sub-
servient to all other considerations, and nobody
seemed to consider him of the smallest account till
he died, and was no longer in a position to repudi-
ate the responsibility. . , ...
The committee appointed to draw up the obitu-
ary poem for the Evhnnoose consisted of nine :
Grandfather Cadden, the widow her eldest son,
and two spinster daughters, and two delegates
from a branch ; Uncle Caleb, a gentleman m the
bacon and cheese interest, and Aunt Aureola, an
acid female of strong character. . '
The council ranged itself with sepulchral gravity
about the table and solemnly set to work to grind
out the sad refrain. The eldest son, Ephraim, as
clerk of the court, sat at the head of the board,
armed with paper, pen and ink ready to take down
the testimony as it was offered. Ihe others drie
their tears, and fixing their eyes on space began
to think with back-breaking intensity, Aunt
Aureola alone displaying little enthusiasm, and
manifesting by her demeanor and an occasional
aggravating sniff some contempt for the under-
taking. The amateurs were a long time getting
their dirge under way. Opening lines like Kest,
dear father, rest,” and “ Affection sore long time
he bore,” and “He’s not dead but gone before,
were alternately presented m the form of motions,
were seconded, then elaborately and. somewhat
warmly discussed by the assemblage, and final y
lost on the vote because of their lack oforiginali v
and poetic fire. At length, however, Uncle Caleb
made a bold bid for fame with the following
gem:— , ,
“ Farewell, dear Simeon, thy days are done,
We’ll mourn you till our race is run.
Over on the shiny shore „
Some day we’ll meet you at the door.
This was favorably received by all concerned, and
was carried with acclamation— the idea of meeting
the lamented Cadden at the door of the shiny
shore being regarded as a peculiarly happy e^
After a severe mental struggle, lasting over half-
an-hour, three more lines were concocted and
carried :
“ He came home so gladly,
He came to us in the night,
But, oh, Death came so sadly
Here the procession got bogged again. The
chief contributors to the above were Ephraim, his
elder sister Agatha, and their respected grand-
sire ; but even this combination of intellect could
progress no further, and for a considerable time
the council sat writhing in the throes of composi-
tion, thinking with unprecedented industry. Sud-
denly Aunt Aureola sat up with a jerk and
stated: —
“ And took him when he was tight.”
The family convention started, aghast, and
gazed at the mterjector with pained surprise; but
Aunt Aureola beamed complacently—she thought
she had done remarkably well, and was only un-
deceived when the widow fell into strong hysterics,
and Uncle Caleb, with the air of an expert, cast
severe aspersions on her poetical powers, and
sternly censured her for her lack of feeling. Even
then she only sniffed more fiercely, and said she
didn’t care; it was true, anyhow —a sentiment
that moved Uncle Caleb to deliver a brief review
of the popular obituary poem, in which he lucidly
demonstrated that truth and poetry were incom-
patible, and convicted Aunt Aureola of sacrilege
and entire absence of divine afflatus. That lady,
however, was not convinced of her unworthiness,
so she froze up into a state of stony disdain, and
greeted every suggestion that followed with a
running commentary of snorts. When business
was resumed the widow added her mite to the
collection, concluding the verse with—
“ And cruelly took away his life.”
The foundation of the next stanza was laid by
grandfather Cadden:
“ How hard we thought it was to part,”
and Miss Sophronia, the second daughter, grace-
fully chipped in with —
“ Prom one we loved so dear,”
after which another long wait ensued, whilst
the council wrestled grimly with the Muses.
Grandfather sat with his elbows on the table and
his jaws clutched fiercely in his hands, and gazed
fixodly on Time and Space. The widow
assumed an attitude of pensive contemplation,
and sought inspiration in the chandelier. Uncle
Caleb sprawled over the furniture with his hands
in his liair digging viciously at his scalp, and
struggled and perspired in all the agonies of com-
position. The two daughters gnawed their finger-
nails and clawed at their fringes. A.unt Aureola
sat erect and spiteful. She was the first to speak;
she simpered :
How hard we thought it was to part
From one we loved so dear,
But; now its pleasant to our heart,
For Simeon’s off the beer.
The convention merely vouchsafed a glance of
pained indignation, and continued to ruminate and
agonise. The elder son eventually supplied the
deficiency, thusly
But now he’s gone to realms of rest
We’ll try not to fret because he s not here.
These lines were not adopted without some dis-
cussion, Miss Sophronia contending that the
lines in poetry should be all the same length, con-
sequently “We’ll try not to fret because hes not
here ” was a misfit, and altogether out of step with
the foregoing remarks. In proof pf which the
lines were measured with a bit of string and com-
pared—a mechaAical criterion that eloquently
affirmed Sophronia’s judgment. However, the
sentence in dispute was written close, and subse-
quently passed on the voices.
For five hours the committee continued its ardu-
ous labors, at the end of which time the following
additional result had been conferred upon Austra-
lian literature :
He was a husband good and true,
A better father we couldn’t find,
And a brother, oh, most true —
On this earth there is too few.
Long he was with pain oppressed,
Now he’s gone to eternal rest.
We miss him here, we miss him there,
We miss our Simeon everywhere.”
This was regarded as a stanza redolent of all
the characteristics of the popular obituary poem,
and a brilliant effort of versification. It was
attained despite the gross materialism of Aunt
Aureola, who would persist in interjecting vulgar,
debasing facts bearing on the moral weaknesses of
the deceased. How long the council would have
remained under the influence of the divine afflatus
is difficult to imagine had not grandfather Cadden
suddenly called the members back to prosaic
realism with a timely warning that the obituary
was running into money.
It is a sad commentary on the greed of news-
paper proprietors that post-mortem prosody must
be measured by pecuniary considerations. A
rough calculation revealed the fact that Simeon s
obituary-poem had already exceeded the pro-
scribed inches. So sections were jointed together,
and Ephraim assumed a declamatory attitude and
read to the assembly the results of its united
efforts, to the immense satisfaction of all, e j c< ? e P t "
ing only Aunt Aureola, whose feelings had been
harrowed by the indiscriminate rejection of her
suggestions. When the reading was concluded,
that excitable female bounced up like a spring-doll
and, gesticulating fiercely, screamed :
“ I don’t care ! It’s a pack of rubbish and lies,
and I’ll write some obituary poetry myself,
and tell how Simeon was always trying to get
into hotels on the blessed Sabbath, and how he
pawned my boots and umbrella to bet on a dog-
fight, and how he was a lazy, shiftless swiper so
I will! and I’ll pay for it to go into the papers
myself, and be independent of the lot of you!
Gone to realms of rest, has he ? Don’t believe it,
and I won’t have my name put to such a wicked
pack of lies ! A husband true and kind was he f
A better father you could not find, eli. Hah !
You know he was a miserable sot, and it 11 be
money in your pockets, now lie’s gone, if you only
save his Police-court fines. If you’d put in those
things I composed it’d have lit up your paltry
lines, and made them interesting, and a lesson to
the unregenerate, but I don’t care. 11l write
some verses myself, and tell about him going to
bed in his boots, and let the publio know just
what he was! There!” And Aunt Aureola
bounced out in a great state of agitation, leaving
the bereaved widow and her spinster daughters in
violent hysterics among the overturned furniture.
Simeon Cadden’s obituary poem appeared m
due time over the names of his mourning widow,
Cecilia Cadden ; his loving daughters, Sophroma
and Agatha Cadden ; his lamenting son, Ephraim
Cadden ; his fond father, Jabez Cadden ; and Ins
affectionate brother, Caleb Cadden. Auno
Aureola was severely omitted.
EDWARD DYSON.
I
FOR
THE
mm
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER
and restorer.
The Very Finest Dressing, Specially
Prepared and Delicately Perfumed
for the Toilet.
"HARLENE”
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents Its Falling
Off or Turning Crey.
UNEQUALLED FOR PROMOTING THE GROWTH OF
THE BEARD AND MOUSTACHE.
THE RENOWNED
REMEDY FOR BALDNESS.
m
•' For Preserving, Strengthening, and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft; for Removing Scurf, Dandruff, 4c also for
(RESTORING GREY HAIR TO ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
“ HARLENE” PRESERVES, STRENGTHENS, AND INVIGORATES CHILDREN’B HAIR.
Full description and directions Jot use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle.
{ j/., 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size, 4-/6 per Bottle from Druggists Slc., all over the World.
| i<HARLENE” Co., High Holborn, LONDON, ENGLAND.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK oucht to contain A BOTTLE of
ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’
A Simple Remedy for Preventing: & Curing by Natural Means
&
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,.
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL-POX, SCARLET FEYER, PYA2MIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. Iha ,
for In y earn a£d have nursed isesof scarlet feverpyaemia, measles
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease Durmgthis time I
hav?not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the* use of Enos Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I “““““J "
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means
over estimated.”— A Professional Nurse {Qualified).
tuc trccPTnc cun's ‘ FRUIT SALT' ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPA
CAUTION.—
Prepared only by J. C.ENO, Ltd., at the 1 FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
THE <
ONLY GOLD MEDAL ]
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World (
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by <
■REFUELI
) A.& F.PEftRS
TO
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
au/arded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
)
SOAP MAKERS,
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.


The Lonely Road.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
P"ea, I have smiled as men may smile whose
hearts within them die ;
sTea, I have heard the Voices call, and turned and
said “Good-bye !”
Good-bye, my love, good-bye !
White powdered worlds wane dim above; the
pregnant East grows gray—
Tired, trembling hands upon the rein; tired eyes
to see the day.
Last eve your twining arms still claimed and held
my soul in fee,
To-day the cruel miles spread far, so far ’tween
thee and me;
My love, my love, good-bye !
Oh, we have lived our little hour—our little hour
is dead;
The skies that arch another day bum grandly
overhead.
Now nor’ward, nor’ward winds the track —how
heavy falls the goad !
For I shall think and dream of thee along the
lonely road—
My love, dear love, good-bye !
Yea, when our camp-fires red the night beyond
the plain’s extreme,
Then shall I read among the coals, and dream, and
dream, and dream. . .
And ne’er above still sleeping trees shall climb a
great.white moon,
And ne’er across the Bush shall fall soft shades of
afternoon,
And never through their mid-day haze the blue
hills sfniling be . . .
But will their tender glories call my Fancies back
to thee ?
So not good-bye !
Nay, not good-bye ! So short is Life, so fair is
Love, so dear ;
And theirs shall surely be the Earth who hope and
nothing fear.
No, not good-bye !
For they must wait in ways obscure, who wait the
Living Light ;
But they shall see the Sun uprise who watch
through all the Night.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
Mrs. Flynn’s Sofy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Her name was Mrs. Flynn, and she lived in
Somebody’s Lane. Her home was one of those
sun-dried cottages that boast a plot of coarse
grass and rank red geraniums, showing dusty
leaves above the decrepit watering-pots and bat-
tered kerosene tins in which they are ensconced.
She was a small, blackish woman ; her skin har-
monised with the musty dark skirt, the hem
whereof was continually drawn into her flapping
shoe-lieel as into some inevitable vortex. She
also belonged to the class of the Husband-Beaten.
A writer once remarked that there is no definite
type of wife-beater, but that there is a distinct
type of woman that always manages to get beaten,
be her lord Lancelot or Bill Sikes. Some day,
when magistrates are educated in psychology,
women who get thrashed by their husbands will
be arrested for the crime, while their unfortunate
victims receive the well-merited sympathy of an
enlightened public.
_ This, however, is a digression. Mrs. Flynn’s
little weakness is merely mentioned to show why,
when Patrick Flynn died, Mrs. Flynn grieved for
him with an exceeding great grief.
There were six other Flynns left; three married
and settled, the other three still at home. As
they had grown up decent-living and steady, and
had likewise not the merit of being dead, Mrs.
Flynn cared very little about them. With a cer-
tain class of women (and men) deadness is a great
merit. All Mrs. Flynn’s love was for the de-
parted, and her only consolation was to gather
together the sacred relics of the defunct (a pair of
moleskins, a flannel shirt or two, and so on) and
weep over them whenever any audience was avail-
.able.
When she had wept sufficiently she would place
them on top of the worn-out chest before her
parlor-window, said chest becoming henceforth a
:shrine.
But the two girls, when they left school, began
to use the parlor as a sewing- room. Hence a
vividly-worded objection to father’s old clayey
trousers asserting themselves as if by way of
advertisement below their neat sign—“Miss
Flynnes, Dressmakers; Unrivalled for Fit and
Style.” At this undutiful conduct Mrs. Flynn
wept, and managed to stow one or two of the
sacred shirts in her own crowded wooden box.
But for the rest of the relics there was no abiding-
place. They were chivvied about from one
squalid bedroom to another, and the culmination
was reached one day when Mrs. Flynn found her-
self just in time to save them from the old-clo’
woman bribed by her unfilial offspring to take
them away, as it were, by accident.
This was too much. Mrs. Flynn saw that strong
forces were arrayed against her treasures, and that
to defeat these forces she must in a sense succumb
to them. As she sat in the kitchen, brooding over
her wrongs, her eye fell on the settle—which, to be
genteel, she generally referred to as her Sofy, and
a brilliant idea flashed into her brain.
It was an old settle which had been re-covered
some half dozen times, parts of the early coverings
showing through various rents in the last dusty
layer of cretonne (bought cheap from a second-
hand-clothes shop). On this seat the defunct Pat-
rick had often sat quaffing his evening beer ; from
it he had arisen to give her her daily correction,
and on it he had rested from his labors when that
duty was duly accomplished. Hence the Sofy was
hallowed by associations that were tender both
mentally and physically. The holes in the cover-
ings showed that much of the stuffing had fallen
away. What better could she do than fill up this
vacant lot with the relics ? They would be safe,
and two hallowed objects of her affections would
be indissolubly bound together.
When the girls returned from a Manly outing
that evening they expressed entire approval of
the innovation. The Sofy looked plump and
smooth beneath its irregular lines of new' white
stitching, and father’s trousers certainly made it
feel a lot more comfortable.
Some years passed, and the family prospered.
Plush photos took the place of almanacs, and a
cursing cockatoo in a green cage aroused the envy
and admiration of the neighborhood. Even the
kitchen was subject to renovation, but one article
of furniture remained untouched—a very old very
tired, very dingy-looking settle. This ancient
piece of furniture was a sore vexation to whichever
Muss Flynn had to have her boy in the kitchen
while the other was “ fitting-on ” some of the local
aristocracy m the parlor.
-Mrs. 1 lynn heard of the plague’s appear-
ance in the city she had no idea that the visitation
was to have anything to do with her Sofy: in
fact, she dismissed the matter with shrill scorn,
lo her mind, there must always be a certain
amount of illness in the world ; “an’ if we’ave
got this ’ere Plygue, why, it means we won’t ’ave
no typhoid or infiuenzar, that’s all.” The reported
deaths of several victims left her philosophy un-
touched, and she did jiot become uneasy till
rumors reached her of what Guv’ment was going to
do in the way of cleansing the city. This, to
Somebody s Lane, was a long way worse than the
“Plygue.'’
1 hen .Tuliar burst in with the glad tidings that
when the Plygue reached any district, Gov-
ernment sprinkled all your furniture with some-
thin k, and if anythink was awful bad, they burnt
it and gave you a nice new one in its place. At
this, the inhabitants of Somebody’s Lane arose
and thoughtfully endeavored to give their belong-
mgs a plaguey expression, and Mrs. Flynn sat
still with fear at her heart. The “gurrls”’ glad
expectations of a new Sofy that would do for
the parlor found no echo in her soul. Inwardly
she saw her beloved Sofy dragged out and
sacrilegiously disinfected, and perhaps burned,
t hat was, if the Plygue came to the district
which the Sofy inhabited. The following
morning a case was reported two streets off from
Somebody’s Lane !
That evening the youngest Flynn boy, assisted
by one of the Flanagan tribe, might have been
seen stealing down the Lane, carrying the Sofy
between them. Half-an-hour later it was safe in
the backyard of a married daughter who lived in
a still uninfected water-suburb.
When the married daughter’s husband came
home and stumbled over the Sofy, he cursed
brightly three or four times and promptly refused
it house-room. That night it rained heavily, the
moisture penetrating to the clay-soiled relics
entombed in the couch. A belated fowl that had
fallen victim to a lock-out perched with muddy
feet on its outposts ; and later a cat came and ate
its bubonic rat on the sodden shelter of its dubious
cushions. In the morning, when the husband had
gone to work, the married daughter dragged the
disrespected relic into the kitchen, and hanging
the children’s washed pinnies over its microby
back, hospitably dried the lot before the fire
together.
Put by the next day Mrs. Flynn heard that the
Plygue was in this suburb; so the Sofy did another
moonlight flitting, and put up at the other end of
the city with a married son, whose wife, not tak-
ing kindly to the visitor, propped it up against
the coal-cellar and offered it to the dog as a habi-
tation and a home. The dog, however, preferred
the cold, but sanitary, earth. Two days later,
pursued by the relentless Plygue, it once more
fled’ via Flanagan and Flynn, on this occasion to
the other married daughter’s, a mile or two dis-
tant. The Sofy was now in such a state that the
second husband had to be carefully kept in
ignorance of its arrival.
For the next three weeks Mrs. Flynn’s Sofy
dodged the Plygue round Sydney, every now and
then, as things looked better, returning for a spell
to its ancestral home. Every morning Mrs.
Flynn, growing more unkempt each day from
anxiety, spelt her way through the plague-news,
calculating, with feverish brow, the safest resi-
dence for her beloved article of furniture.
But by this time the patience of the children-in-
law had given out, and they refused to provide
lodging for the settle any longer. They alleged-
science having now penetrated to the proletariat
that it would soon be a matter of board as well
as lodging, as the number of plague-germs the
Sofy must have accumulated in its many wander-
ings would soon be clamoring for human diet.
Mrs. Flynn wept and pondered, and, having
come to the conclusion that the Sofy for its
health’s sake could not stay at home, suddenly
remembered an old pal of the deceased who lived
in a safe district. He and the defunct had often
drunk much beer together, and they had generally
beaten their wives extra hard on the sameday (Satur-
day). These things, Mrs. Flynn knew, always con-
stituted a strong bond of affection between men.
Besides, Riley was a sensible man, and had openly
scoffed at the Plygue when last she saw him, -a
fortnight ago.
That evening after dusk, to escape the vigilance
pf the inspectors, the beloved chattel set out on
its last journey. The Flanagan boy had been
forbidden to have any further transactions with
the Flynns’ Sofy, so Mrs. Flynn had to take one
end of it herself.
Riley was in when she arrived; he was sober ;
he was sitting in his kitchen studying the evening
paper with a serious countenance. When Mrs.
Flynn told him the Sofy was honoring his
verandah, and would ’e keep it there till after the
Plygue and not let the kids touch it, he said
“ Certingly.”
At her urgent request he went out and had a
look at the Sofy. But, though she gave him per-
mission to touch it, he edged away and said he
would rather not. He alleged that lie felt it was
too sacred for that.
Mrs. Flynn returned home, her anxiety now
completely at rest. Butphe Sofy had been with
her now three days running,- and the vacancy in
the kitchen struck to her very soul. Bv next
morning she could bear it no longer, and, having
left the cat to house-keep, she went off to enjoy a
glimpse of her Sofy on Riley’s verandah.
The day was warm and invigorating, and she
felt as if all hei troubles 'tvere over.
Turning the corner of the street she saw a
crowd round Riley’s gate. Riley himself was
standing inside talking to an official-looking par-
son with a note-book. On the plot of garden lay
her Sofy, a thin blue cloud of smoke rising from
its earth-stained cretonne seat.
With a shriek she tore up to the open gate, and
• before either could prevent her, flung herself on to
the smoking settle, and tearing something from its
bulging cover, sprang back. Then with a loud
cry of grief as she saw the other relics seized by
the flames, she fled into Riley’s house.
Riley ran to the back-door while the official
guarded the front, and Riley’s wife and children
poured out of the house to say that Mrs. Flynn
had locked herself in one of the bedrooms and
wouldn’t come out.
“ She’ll be hiding them somewhere, and trusting
to your good-nature to keep ’em from me, but you
won’t,” shouted the official.
“ Not me ! I don’t want no Plygue here.”
A little later Mrs. Flynn came out quietly by
the front. There was no p vreel in her hand, so
they rushed in to search the c limnays and various
stowing-places of the house. Meanwhile, as Mrs.
Flynn across the road raised her floppy skirt to
negotiate the curbstone, a musical and explanatory
murmur arose from the crowd—
“ She’s got ’em on ! ”
CONSTANCE CLYDE
HOW WILL YOUR BACK
BE AT SEVENTY-FIVE?
Backache Kidney Pills
DOING GREAT WORK!
m
•/tv,
m
M
tJ/JS 4
»/> ft
mm
if »•//
m:
y//
I'A
mm
mm
II
'VV/
1
M
m
«s
i
I
'••J'
v \’
Mr. It. CRAWFORD.
Don’t Neglect.
The man in the picture is R. Crawford, of Smea-
ton-road, Clunes, Victoria. He is seventy-five
years of age. He looks and talks like a vigorous
man. He IS vigorous for his age.
The title of this article was suggested by a con-
versation recently held with Mr. Crawford, in
which he talked of kidney trouble, and its effects
on the back.. He gave an account of his own
experience with this trouble which will bear
repetition for the benefit it may sring to others
who have found themselves in a similar condition.
“An aching pain in the small of my back was a
perpetual torment to me for years,” said Mr.
Crawford. “My back was so bad I could not rise
after stooping, except with the greatest difficulty.
I had other signs of kidney disease, as the kidney
secretions were unnatural and my sleep was un-
settled. I want to say to you that I have obtained
relief by the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
which cleared up the kidney secretions and im-
proved my back ; and I want to recommend this
medicine as a good kidney medicine not only to
any old people of my age, but to any and all who
have any signs of kidney trouble. You are at
liberty to publish these facts if you wish. They
are true and may help others.”
Now Mr. Crawford is an old man. He suffered
from kidney trouble, as many old people do. He
was relieved by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
and his life prolonged.
Is there not food for reflection in Mr. Craw-
ford’s statement both for other aged people and
any and all who have any form of kidney troubles ?
Bear in mind that kidney disease attacks the
young as well as the old, and that backache is one
of the first signs of its approach.
A COMMON CASE OF PILES.
IT MAY LEAD TO SERIOUS RESULTS.
When people generally understand that all such
fatal diseases as fistula, ulcer of the rectum, fissure,
&c., almost invariably begin in a simple case of
piles, they will learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance of trouble in this
quarter. Doan’s Ointment will certainly cure
every form of piles—itching, bleeding, protruding,
and blind piles—and hundreds of lives have been
saved by using this cheap and effective remedy
right at the start, because at such times a single
pot will effect a cure, while the old, deep-seated,
chronic cases, several pots are sometimes necessary
before a cure is effected. Here is a case in point :
Mr. William Gulliver, of the well-known firm of
Gulliver and Curtis, Railway and General Con-
tractors, and whose private address is “Avoca,”
Bankstown, has written the following unsolicited
letter, which we herewith publish in full: —
Messrs. Foster-McClellan Co,,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Feb. 14th, 1899.
Dear Sirs, —In justice to you and suffering
humanity, I write to say that I suffered from itch-
ing piles for 22 years. I tried many doctors, and
pretty well all kinds of patent medicines, but got
relief for a short time only. Seeing your Ointment
advertised, I bought a pot—and did not use more
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills go straight to
the kidneys. They heal and tone up the urinary
organs, as nothing else can do. They are a spendid
kidney medicine. If your back aches, remember
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills—“ D-O-A-N-S.”
How will YOUR back be at 75 ?
When your kidneys are not doing their work, it
will be manifested by pain or dull ache in the
back, rheumatic pains, sciatica, sediment in the
urine, scanty supply, scalding irritation in passing
it, obliged to go often during the day, and to get
up during the night, uric acid, sleeplessness, ner-
vousness, irritability, sallow, unhealthy com-
plexion, puffy or dark circles under the eyes, loss
of energy and ambition.
If your water, when allowed to remain undis-
turbed for twenty-four hours, forms a sediment or
settling, or has a cloudy appearance, it is evidence
that your kidneys and bladder need immediate
attention.
If you have any of the above symptoms, Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will set you right and cure
you. We will gladly send you the names of thou-
sands who have testified to what Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills have done for them.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
may be had of all Chemists and Storekeepers at
2s. 9d. per box, or six boxes for 15s. 3d., or will
be posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
or from any of our branches, as follows: —Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney (main
office); 292 Flinders-street, Melbourne; 54 King
William-street, Adelaide ; 341 Murray-street,
Perth, W. A. ; Eagle-street, Brisbane, care Elliott
Bros.; St. John-street, Launceston, care Fair-
thorne and Son.
Don’t forget the name “D-O-A-N-S.”
than one-half of it, now six months ago —and I am
perfectly cured. You mav use this as you wish.—
Yours gratefully, WILLIAM GULLIVER.
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching piles. It will Cure
them absolutely. But do not take the manufac-
turer’s word for this ; ask or write Mr. Gilliver.
He knows, for it cured him, and he lives at Banks-
town, a suburb 12 miles from Sydney. Is not that
the best possible kind of proof ? Could there be
better ?
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made*by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, who will send us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles
or Eczema for a single moment. Doan’s Ointment
will cure them absolutely, but do not take our
word for it; send a penny stamp for a sample box.
The large size box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes 15s. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally
from your chemist or storekeeper, same will hie
posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention Thf
Bulletin,


In Bed for Months; Terrible Suffering;
Rheumatism Cured; A Limb Saved; Now Works Hard at 72.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
.t
wA
&
y
/1 -
“While living at Broken Hill I was subject to lumbago and rheumatism,
having swollen joints which prevented me from working or going about any.
I tried a great many remedies and put out a great many pounds trying to get
rid of my complaints, but to no good.
“As soon as I put my foot on the ground I suffered terrible pain, so I was
obliged to stay in bed for many months.
“ One doctor told me I had the dropsy, and another told me I would have to
lose my leg.
“ But, having heard of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, I decided to try it, and now I am
thankful to say it has completely restored me to health.
“ I am now 72 years old, have a splendid appetite, and work hard every
day.”
Mr. John F. Jones, of Cobar, New South Wales, sends us this testimonial
with the above portrait of himself. It is the experience of thousands of others
who have had impurities removed from their, system by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Such? testimonies have given to this remedy the name of
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Sick people may be cured if they will only take the right medicine. The
blood must first be made pure, no matter what the disease. With pure blood
nature can go ahead and complete the cure.
AYER’S Sars&nlla
It Acts on the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar Coated, Easy to Take.
FOR
24 Years
f OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
¥ BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, }
'WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs
WHEN YOU ASIv FOE
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. 0 WBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. I id., 9 d., 4s. 6d.,
3oloni
k. and 1
Stori
kl
Us., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
corraiasr.
idors.
• • 4
V *
• *
» 1
V . »
V *
to
l % *
fi
0^
t
A <
. A .
¥
v %
< • I
* I
4
• H
T, J
appil
ns
u— UJi
■nunmuitej
§5
c
1
■gp c§us 4§^
©
— Q0>
THEY ARE UNRIVALLED FOR
Sick Headache, Constipation, Wind and Pains in
the Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered
Liver, Female Ailments, and all
BILIOUS ai)d NERVOUS DISORDERS.
Sold b j all Druggists and Patent Medicine Vendors
everywhere, in Boxes, Is. (56 pills) and 2s. 9d. each.
Over 6,000,000 Boxes sold annually.
S. FREEMAN SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES :
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WTNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
SEN
mm
B
m
PertruuE
m
&
*NOONO*I
\3fIN3fiVHCK3DNttI
tr) N3g'N2g
INVALUABLE TO
SINGERS X SPEAKERS
cK*
BONNINGTON’S
MOSS
WILL CURE
f
That Hacking Cough
That Troublesome Cold
That Annoying Influenza
BONNINQTON’S PILLS.
REMEDY for BILE, INDIGESTION,
DISORDERED LIVER.


Tho Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,.
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
3S Queen Street, Melbourne;
8.-uokman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ c. ZEXjID'R-TiDa-iE] &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK NTKUUT, SYDNEY
tOpp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout man all the colonies promptly
attended to.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
I K OLLOW AY’S BILLS AN)) OINTMENT.
S There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virluesof these errand medicines have not been
recognised iiy thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their benelicent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. 1F YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw i )xford-st., London. t'&~ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
» .
A Simple
TANGYE
PUMP.
Represented in Australia by
BENNIE TEARE and GO.^^
THE MINER’S WANT
NOW SUPPLIED BY THE
“ Koerstz Patent Klondyke Quartz Crushers.”
w Inch render the miner independent of Battery-power, and enable
him to realise on his gold from day to day.
This is a very superior machine, eipable of being worked by hand, horse, or other
power. It does its work admirably. Will crush to any size, or reduce to the finest
powder. Two men can put through 10 to 12 cwt. ; and, if using horse-power, one
ton per day can be crushed. The complete machine weighs 7cwt., but can be taken
apart, and is then readily portable. No. lis a smaller machine at £l5, No. 0, with
a capacity of two to three tons per day, price £6O.
The Prospector’s Crusher.
No. 1 at £3 and No. 2 at £5, leave nothing to be desired for
testing small quantities of stone.
FREDK. MASON f SOLE AGENT.
Also for
Koerstz Pumps for Mining and all other purposes.
237 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
TSie Ho. 2 SVSrner’s “Klernfyke” Crusher, Price £3O.
FOOD & ICE CO. LTD.
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • ••
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less dailv. The difference in price between Pasteurised, b63iUtifsilly-fl3»VOr6d TSTltiOr and the
ordinary make is only |d. peAb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send yoiir Orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good batter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon tens or for ordinary use
B/fc a»Dy piric©. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
bad butter is clear
H. PATFSON, Manager,
Haroor- troet, Sydney.
LTD.,
ACY
ARKE
&
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM engines and boilers.
SOLE LICENSEES FOR THE MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF
THE ROPP STRAIGHT LINE FURNACE
Wethey Multiple Deck Furnace with Cooling Hearth
FOR
Roasting,
Chlorinating,
AND
Desulphurising Ores,
HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL ENGINES AND BOILERS of all sizes, ROCKBREAKERS, ROLLS, PUL.
VERISERS, CONCENTRATORS, HOISTING ENGINES, HORSE WHIMS, PUMPS of all kinds, WATER
WHEELS, PULSOMETERS, BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, COMPRESSORS, ROCK DRILLS, ORE CARS,
SKIPS AND BUCKETS, ELECTRO-COPPER PLATES, SHAFTING AND PULLEYS, BELTING, AND OILS-
Blake Steam Pumps
Single & Duplex,
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping
purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Vvu.
TRADE MARK.
Worthington Pumps
BOILER FEED PUMP
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
»■ . Send for Catalogues . .
