

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. LAMB’S RUM.
2H FRY’S MALTED COCOA
OTTARAUTEEP PURE COCOA A3XTP EXTRACT OF MALT.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney, 7
mining’ and Contractors 5 Plant, Engineers 5 and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Over 2400 Hydro-Extract >rs Sold and at work
WINS!
WINS !
WINS!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST wiNE^>
AUSTRALIA.
&B' Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Go. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-m ntt street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOR BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar?
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Testimonials and full particulars.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
SANDEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GEOCEES.
jjF
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient [jotel
i iW
mm
mmmSiM
■
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE NOTEL, opposite Sb.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per l)ay, or 2 Guineas per Week.
-WO/
to
860,1X2 Bottles Sold in One Montk-THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST.
sdf
PIONEER
LEATHER
1
sd
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWIGT& SON, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
“ WEALTH OF NATIONS.”
Messrs. T. 0. WILLIAMS COMPANY, of RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.,
have prepared for this market a
HIGH-GRADE TOBACCO
Under the Brand of
“ WEALTH OF NATIONS.”
The knowledge which the msnufacturers have gained in supplying the favorite
brands of Welcome Nugget, Victory, and Diadem, enables them to confidently
recommend Wealth of Nations
TO ALL SMOKERS OF DARK TOBACCO.
Obtainable of all leading Tobacconists and Stores.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
WM¥l*3
pait^AwVAii^B
lifltlllll
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE Dfl& im
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE. SYDNEY,
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st,, Brisbane,
TEACHER’S “ HIGHLAND CREAM” WHISKY
SOLE AGENTS
}
Plummer Love & Co.
249 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
V oi 21.—JNo. 1042. j
[Saturday, February 3, 1900.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


“Steele Rudd’s” Book.
“ On Our Selection. 3 ’
Price: Six Shillings, Post Free-
“ The Bulletin ” Newspaper Co., Ltd.
214 George-street, Sydney, Australia.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis
and
Influenza
Cure.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
Invaluable
to
Singers and
Public
Speakers.
A
SUITABLE FOR OLD
AND YOUNG
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous dnuj . . .
Sold by all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d. Or from the Proprietor—G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich,
Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any Province. SYDNEY AGENT—S. TAYLOK, 5 and 7 Queen’s Place.
THE RED PAGE.
Poems in Prose .
“How FAIR, How Fresh WERE THE
ROSES...”
Somewhere, sometime, long, long ago, I
read a poem. It was soon forgotten ...
but the first line has stuck in my memory—
“ How fair, how fresh were the roses. . .”
Now in winter ; the frost has iced over
the window-panes ; in the dark room burns
a solitary candle. I sit huddled up in a
corner ; and in my head the line keeps echo-
ing and echoing—
‘l How fair, how fresh were the roses. . .”
And I see myself before the low window
of a Russian country house. The summer
evening is slowly melting into night, the
warm air is fragrant of mignonette and lime-
blossom ; and at the window, leaning on her
arm, her head bent on her shoulder, sits a
young girl, and silently, intently gazes into
the sky, as though looking for new stai-s to
come out. What candour, what inspiration
in the dreamy eyes, what moving innocence
in the parted questioning lips, how calmly
breathes that still-growing, still-untroubled
bosom, how pure and tender the profile of
the young face ! I dare not speak to her ;
but how dear she is to me, how my heart
beats !
“ How fair, how fresh were the roses. . .”
But here in the room it gets darker and
darker. . . The candle burns dim and
gutters, dancing shadows quiver on the low
ceiling, the cruel crunch of the frost is heard
outside, and within the dreary murmur of
old age. ...
“ How fair, how fresh were the roses. . .”
There rise up before me other images. I
hear the merry hubbub of home life, in the
country. Two flaxen heads, bending close
together, look saucily at me with their
bright eyes, rosy cheeks shake with sup-
pressed laughter, hands are clasped in warm
affection, young kind voices ring one above
the other ; while a little farther, at the end
of the snug room, other hands, young too,
fly with unskilled fingers over the keys of the
old piano, and the Lanner waltz cannot
drown the hissing of the patriarchal samo-
var . . .
“ How fair, how fresh were the roses. ...”
The candle flickers and goes out. . . .
Whose is that hoarse and hollow cough?
Curled up, my old dog lies, shuddering at
my feet, my only companion. . . . I’m cold.
. . . I’m frozen . . . and all of them are
dead . . . dead . . .
“How fair, how fresh were the roses. . . .”
The End of the World.
A DREAM.
I fancied I was somewhere in Russia, in
the wilds, in a simple country house.
The room big and low pitched with three
windows ; the walls whitewashed ; no furni-
ture. Before the house a barren plain;
gradually sloping downwards, it stretches
into the distance ; a grey monotonous sky
hangs over it, like the canopy of a bed.
I am not alone ; there are some ten per-
sons in the room with me. All quite plain
people, simply dressed. They walk up and
down in silence, as it were stealthily. They
avoid one another, and yet are continually
looking anxiously at one another.
Not one knows why he has come into this
house and what people there are with him.
On all the faces uneasiness and despondency
... all in turn approach the window’s and
look about intently as though expecting
something from without.
Then again they fall to wandering up and
down. Among us is a small-sized boy ; from
time to time he whimpers in the same thin
voice, “ Father, I’m frightened ! ” My heart
turns sick at his whimper, and I too begin to
be afraid ... of what ? I don’t know my-
self. Only I feel, there is coming nearer
and nearer a great, great calamity.
The boy keeps on and on with his wail.
Oh, to escape from here ! How stifling ! How
weary ! how heavy. . . . But escape is im-
possible.
The sky is like a shroud. And no wind.
... Is the air dead or what ?
All at once the boy runs up to the window
and shrieks in the same piteous voice,
“ Look ! look ! the earth has fallen away ! ”
“How? fallen away ? ” Yes; just now
there was a plain before the house, and now
it stands on a fearful height ! The horizon
has sunk, has gone down, and from the very
house drops an almost overhanging, as it
were scooped-out, black precipice.
. We all crowded to the window. ....
Horror froze our hearts. “Here it is . . .
here it is ! ” whispers one next me.
And behold, along the whole far boundary
of the earth, something began to stir, some
sort of small, roundish hillocks began heav-
ing and falling.
“ It is the sea ! ” thA thought flashed oh
us all at the same instant. “It will swallow
us all up directly. . . . Only how can it
grow and rise upwards ? To this precipice ? ”
And yet it grows, grows enormously. . . .
Already there are not separate hillocks
heaving in the distance. . . One continuous,
monstrous wave embraces the whole circle of
the horizon.
It is swooping, Swooping, dffwn upon us !
In an icy hurricane it flies, swirling in the
darkness of hell. Everything shuddered —
and theie, in this flying mass—was the crash
of thunder, the iron wail of thousands of
throats. . . .
Ah ! what a roaring and moaning ! It was
the earth howling for terror. . . .
The end of it ! the end of all !
The child whimpered once more. ... I
tried to clutch at my companions, but al-
ready we were all crushed, buried, drowned,
swept away by that pitch-black, icy,
thundering wave !
Darkness . . . darkness everlasting !
Scarcely breathing, I awoke.
TWO STANZAS.
There was once a town, the inhabitants of
which were so passionately fond of Doetry,
that if some weeks passed by without the
appearance of any good new poems, they
regarded such poetic dearth as a public mis-
fortune.
They used at such times to put on their
worst clothes, to sprinkle ashes on their
heads ; and, assembling in crowds and in pub-
lic squares, to shed tears and bitterly to up-
braid the muse who had deserted them.
On one such inauspicious day, the young
poet Junius came into a square, thronged
with the grieving populace.
With rapid steps he ascended a forum,
constructed for this purpose, and made signs
that he wished to recite a poem.
L he lictors at once brandished their fasces.
“ Silence ! attention ! ” they shouted loudly,
and the crowd was hushed in expectation.
“ Friends ! Comrades ! ” began Junius, in
a loud but not quite steady voice :
“ Friends ! Comrades ! Lovers of the Muse !
Ye worshippers of beauty and of grace !
Let not a moment’s gloom dismay your souls,
Your heart’s desire is nigh, and light shall banish
darkness. ”
Junius ceased . . . and in answer to him,
from every part of the square, rosea hubbub
of hissing and laughter.
Every face, turned to him, glowed with
indignation, every eye sparkled with anger,
every arm was raised and shook a menacing
fist. !
“He thought to dazzle us with that ! ”
growled angry voices. “Down with the
imbecile rhymester from the forum ! Away
with the idiot! Rotten apples, stinking
eggs for the motley fool ! Give us stones—
stones here ! ”
Junius rushed head over heels from the
forum . . . but, before he had got home, he
was overtaken by the sound of peals of
enthusiastic applause, cries and shouts of
admiration.
Filled with amazement, Junius returned
to the square, trying however to avoid being
noticed (for it is dangerous to irritate an in-
furiated beast).
And what did he behold ?
High above the people, upon their shoul-
ders, on a flat golden shield, wrapped in a
purple chlamys, with a laurel wreath on his
flowing locks, stood his rival, the young poet
Julius. . . . And the populace all round
him shouted : “Glory! Glory! Glory to
the immortal Julius ! He has comforted us
in our sorrow, in our great woe ! He has
bestowed on us verses sweeter than honey,
more musical than the cymbal’s note, more
fragrant than the rose, purer than the azure
of heaven ! Carry him in triumph, encircle
his inspired head with the soft breath of
incense, cool his brow with the rhythmic
movement of palm-leaves, scatter at his feet
all the fragrance of the myrrh of Arabia !
Glory ! ”
Junius went up to one of the applauding
enthusiasts. “ Enlighten me, Omy fellow-
citizen ! what were the verses with which
Julius has made you happy ? I, alas ! was
not in the square when he uttered them !
Repeat them, if you remember them, pray ! ”
“ Verses like those I could hardly forget ! ”
the man addressed responded with spirit.
“What do you take me for ? Listen—and
rejoice, rejoice with us ! ”
“Lovers of the Muse ! ” so the deified
J ulius had begun. . . .
“Lovers of the Muse ! Comrades ! Friends
Of beauty, grace, and music, worshippers !
Let not your hearts by gloom affrighted be !
The wished-for moment comes ! and day shall
scatter night! ”
“ What do you think of them ? ”
“Heavens!” cried Junius; “but that’s
my poem ! Julius must have been in the
crowd when I was reciting them ; he heard
them and repeated them, slightly varying,
and certainly not improving, a few ex-
pressions.”
“ Aha ! Now I recognise you. . , You
are Junius,” the citizen he had stopped re-
torted with a scowl on his face. “Envious
man or fool ! . . . note only, luckless
wretch, how sublimely Julius has phrased
it: ‘ And day shall scatter night !’ While
you had some such rubbish : ‘ And light shall
banish darkness !’. What light ? What
darkness ? ”
“ But isn’t that just the same ? ” Junius
was beginning. . . .
“ Say another word,” the citizen cut him
short, “I will call upon the people . . .
they will tear you to pieces ! ”
Junius judiciously held his peace, but a
grey-headed old. man who had heard the con-
versation went up to the unlucky poet, aud
laying a hand upon his shoulder, said :
“ Junius ! You uttered your own thought,
but not at the right moment: and he uttered
not his own thought, but at the right
moment. Consequently, he is all right;
while for you is left the consolations of a
good conscience.”
But while his conscience, to of its
powers—not over successfully, to! tell the
truth—was consoling Junius as he was
shoved on one side—in the distance, amid
shouts of applause and rejoicing, in the
golden radiance of the all-conquering sun,
resplendent in purple, with his brow shaded
with laurel, among undulating clouds of
lavish incense, with majestic deliberation,
like a tsar making a triumphal entry into his
kingdom, moved the proudly erect figure of
Julius . . . and the long branches of palm
rose and fell before him, as though express-
ing in their soft vibration, in their submis-
sive obeisance, the ever-renewed adoration
which filled the hearts of his enchanted
fellow-citizens !
“THOU SHALT HEAR THE FOOL'S JUDGMENT
...”— Pushkin.
“ Thou shalt hear the fool’s judgment
...” You always told the truth, O great
singer of ours. You spoke it this time, too.
“ The fool’s judgment and the laughter of
the crowd ”... who has not known the
one and the other ?
All that one can, and one ought to bear ;
and who has the strength, let him despise it !
But there are blows which pierce more
cruelly to the very heart. ... A man has
done all that he could ; has worked strenu-
ously, lovingly, honestly. . . . And honest
hearts turn from him in disgust ; honest
faces burn with indignation at his name.
“Be gone ! Away with you ! ” honest young
voices scream at him. “We have no need
of you, nor of your work. You pollute our
dwelling-places. You know us not and
understand us not. . . You are our
enemy ! ”
What is that man to do ? Go on working ;
not try to justify himself, and not even look
forward to a fairer judgment.
At one time the tillers of the soil cursed
the traveller who brought the potato, the
substitute for bread, the poor man’s daily
food. . ... . They shook the precious gift out
of his outstretched hands, flung it in the
mud, trampled it underfoot.
Now they are fed with it, and do not even
know their benefactor’s name.
So be it ! What is the name to them ? He,
nameless though he be, saves them from
hunger.
Let us try only that what we bring should
be really good food.
Bitter, unjust reproach on the lips of those
you love. . . . But that, too, can be borne.
“Beat me ! but listen ! ” said the Athe-
nian leader to the Spartan.
“ Beat me ! but be healthy and fed ! ” we
ought to say.
THE WORKMAN AND THE MAN WITH THE
WHITE HANDS.
A DIALOGUE.
Workman. Why do you come crawling
up to us ? What do you want ? You’re none
of us. . . . Get along !
Man with white hands. lam one of
you, comrades !
The workman. One of us, indeed ! That’s
a notion ! Look at my hands. D’ye see
how dirty they are ? And they smell of
muck, and of pitch—but yours, see, are
white. And what do they smell of 1
The man with white hands ( offering his
hands). Smell them.
The workman ( sniffing his hands). That's
a queer start. Seems like a smell of iron.
The man with white hands. Yes ; iron
it is. For six long years I wore chains on
them.
The workman. And what was that for,
pray 1.
The man with white hands. Why, be-
cause I worked for your good ; tried to set
free the oppressed and the ignorant ; stirred
folk up against your oppressors ; resisted
the authorities. ... So they locked me up.
The workman. Locked you up, did they ?
Serve you right for resisting !
Two Years Later.
The same workman to another. I say,
Pete. . . . Do you remember, the year
before last, a chap with white hands talking
to you ?
The other workman. Yes .. . what
of it 1
The first workman. They’re going to
hang him to-day, I heard say ; that’s the
order.
The first workman. He kept on.
The second workman. Ah ! . . . Now,
I say, mate, couldn’t we get hold of a bit of
the rope they’re going to hang him with ?
They do say, it brings good luck to a house !
The first workman. You ’re right there.
We ’ll have a try for it, mate.
WE WILL STILL FIGHT ON.
What an insignificant trifle may sometimes
transform the whole man !
Full of melancholy thought, I walked one
day along the highroad.
My heart was oppressed by a weight of
gloomy apprehension ; I was overwhelmed
by dejection. I raised my head. . . Before
me, between two rows of tall poplars, the
road darted like an arrow into the distance.
And across it, across this road, ten paces
from me, in the golden light of the dazzling
summer sunshine, a whole family of spar-
rows hopped one after another, hopped
saucily, drolly, self-reliantly !
One of them, in particular, skipped along
sideways with desperate energy, puffing out
his little bosom and chirping impudently, as
though to say he was not afraid of any one !
A gallant little warrior, really !
And, meanwhile, high overhead in the
heavens hovered a hawk, destined, perhaps,
to devour that little warrior.
I looked, laughed, shook myself, and the
mournful thoughts flew right away : pluck,
daring, zeal for life I felt anew.
Let him, too, hover over me, my hawk . . .
We will fight on, and damn it all !
By IVAN TURGENEY.
What is it in you that wakes you at an hour
determined before sleeping ? The fact is well
proven : there are a thousand recorded in-
stances to assure my own. Last night said
I: “I’ll get up at six.” This morning I
woke to semi-consciousness of a phantasma-
goria of hurtling, seething dreams. Then,
quite suddenly, I felt a surge of blood to my
head, became completely conscious, and . . .
heard six o’clock striking. Bound to confess
the milk-cart rattled up that identical
moment; I may have been awakened, not
by a cerebral monition, but by a premonition
of milk cart. But no ; the experience is
familiar.
* * • «
Marie de Manaodine, in her interesting
book about sleep published in the Contem-
porary Science Series, quotes the case of a
man who
on going to bed recalled that he must rise the
next day at eight, at the same time quite forget-
ting that his clock was half-an-hour fast. In the
middle of the night he woke, and on looking at
his clock remembered that it was half-an-hour
fast, and that consequently he must wake, not
when the clock struck eight, but half-an-hour
later. He then fell into a sound slumber,
which lasted until he felt himself disturbed by
some unknown cause. He started up with the
dread that he had awakened too late, but looking
at his clock, he saw that it pointed exactly to
half-past eight. Thus, in spite of deep sleep, the
sleeper’s attention and will not only followed the
course of time, but even corrected the error of
the clock ; the man slept soundly while the clock
loudly Struck eight, and awoke when the hand
silently pointed to the half-hour.
Note, in regard to this, the dependence on
the clock. Presumably a clockless and
watch less man could not depend upon him-
self to wake at an exact hour—since he
would have no means of knowing the exact
hour even if awake. That is, you must give
the brain some point d’appui, some holdfast;
and then it will calculate for you with greater
or less exactitude in different individuals.
Consider this also : that the brain must have
acquired the habit of referring to the flight
of time : a person who had not been accus-
tomed to reckon by the twenty-four hour
day would be unable to wake at a predeter-
mined hour, since he would have no standard
of reference. The theory is that only part
of the brain sleeps: that the portion
which deals with the will and the attention
keeps awake ; and is perhaps all the more
active and reliable because its energy is not
dissipated on the hundred objects which
confuse it in waking hours.
* * * *
Mme. de Manacei'ne points out that there
are well-established differences between
sleepers. Persons of feeble character can-
not awake at a fixed hour. Of 200
American students 59 per cent, had the power
of waking ; and the percentage of women
among these (51) was less than of men (62).
Interesting to note that when.you thrust the
responsibility of waking you on an alarm-
clock it often fails. The reason is that the
attention-centre will not do the work un-
less specially invoked; and the impulse to the
auditory-centre becomes, after a time, in-
sufficient to bring back consciousness.


SECOND-HAND \ ]
AND I;
New furniture r
(Best Quality). J i
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 60 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £6 Earned I
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged els#*
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
kfkin Wkea4e6.
s9leii) Wkeodery
“*£igmo{{iene. ”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURB
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARC.OO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTOHS SAY
“ Woolloston House, Oastlemaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.DI”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.O.,says
“Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir, —I have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D."
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
LIGMOLLIENE CREAM SOAP
(Registkrbd.)
Is a Pure, Neutral, strongly Antiseptio, and Curative j
Soap, for the treatment of parasitic, and the various
superficial affections of the skin, among which may be
mentioned, ITCHING, PRICKLY-HEAT, CHAPPED
HANDS, SUNBURN, &o. It allays instantaneously all
irritation and soreness, and is especially valuable for the
cleansing of wounds, and ulcers. It will also be found a
thorough luxury for shampooing, effectually cleansing
the scalp from Dandriff, and for all nursery and bath
purposes.
Ligmolliene Cream Soap is sold in oval tablets at Is
each, stamped with the trade mark “ Ligmolliene.” Can
be obtained from all chemists throughout Australasia.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HENRY MALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. a,nri. 7s. 6d. Sacla..
£3??“'Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydnkt ;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
CR. J.HOLLKBROWNE'S
CHLOROPYNE
jaution. —G enuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for OOUGrHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BHOHOHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor —
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
•relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BR&VAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingthe constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL .-‘'lthas all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
=Ol D BY CHEMISTS AM THE WOBI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
GABLE ADDRESS :
Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE
Xaozid on,
Established a a a connecting link between Australian Properties and the financial Market of London by
3E* of*, a. isris: J a. rt "Vi s .
(who has had 20 years' experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circlesimlthei old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly A„enoy ternis.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen BRISBANE.
Victoria— JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— c. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
Co-Operative W ool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices i - 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores—Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
CYANIDE.
QUICKSILVER.
NOTES BROS.,
17 QUEEN STREET,
31 O’CONNELL STREET,
SYDNEY;
MELBOURNE.
rtSK FOR
„
foutniMl
COMBINES
*9
WHISKY
PERFECTION OF QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY
B<J|*
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
MEDICATOR.
/CATARRH is inflammation of tha
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car*
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through, the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache. Neuralgia, Coughs,Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Hoipe Catarrb C£ir€ Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
ft COMMON SENSE EAR I>RTJM.”
THE
DEAF
HEA6
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE —Before purchasing,>e prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
fs
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Malintr Remedy ,
38 Elizabeth-street. -'^ T
!ailetiburt)S Foods.
PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFAN
Kicth (inwardand free from dangerous germs*
The “ Allenburys”
The “Allenburys”
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three month* of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of liie.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ Allenburys” Malted Food No. 3
UV\y Tnfcmfji rv
I'or Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
Mo. 8 Food is sl ron s l, recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, Aired, and all rec,uirin e a li E ht and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that—“No Better Food Exists.
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 485, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
TORONTO.
CANADA.
A
A
35 BROftDWftY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CHAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
HIGH-GRADE FARM IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINERY.
Bluthner
PIANOS
Albert Fahr
PIANOS
August Heide
PIANOS
Estey Organs
Pianos
and
Organs
—ON-
Very
Easy
Terms
The Most Popular Piano in Australia.
THE
BLUTHNEB
T=»T aktofoktes
Grand and Upright.
Descriptive Catalogues and Price Lists on
Application to
How to Learn
the Piano
in 3 Months.
Price, 2s. 6d.
Post Pree.
The
F ederal
Music Books
Nos. 1 to 52.
The Best Shilling
Annuals in the
World.
Catalogues mailed free to
any address.
So,?
Wgeijts-
W. H. 6LEN & CO.,
359 George Street, Sydney.
2"72 & 2*74 Collins St., Melbourne.


Address: Care GrEO.
ADAMS,
Hobart.
Hobart C. February 13.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
... . 1 \ -
Please allot me shares in above.
( . . ' ij
Kama
Address
j 8 • «
Newmarket H. March 3.
100,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
PjJjpase allot me _jßharea in above.
Name
Address
Newmarket H. (special).
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
Australian C. March 6.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address,
Maitland G. March 9.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me__ shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care ®eo. Adams, Hobart.


Portugal once offered the great Delagoa
Bay territory to Britain for £lO,OOO, and the offer
was refused. As the handiest outlet to the Trans-
vaal it would be worth, now more like £10,000,000.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
flousemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours,,; Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/1 Jd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
mi s
fiyjD
BX
I Foft. •• v - *
INDIOEJTIO^
d
crvovs
nEADACHE
ACi&traliao 1 &t£ia! ProVideijt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Svdnev.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
m
Suliues, £4 155., JEti 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
&3T Send for Price List. ItJl
H. HILLIEB, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
df
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER. 130 Snssex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
3XT.S. W. Carriaige SadLcilery 3Vra,nf.
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring- Sulkies, £7;
8-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Cataloene and Prioe List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They oannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 8
£8 18/6
Dollrered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
1
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
.xnales, and the Sick*
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
AGNES IA
mi
itfE#
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DIMNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cnjbrocatioo
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN ana
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s CnpbrocatioO-
LA.3DTES !
'-"'""W Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s fid
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 6s (id to £3 Ss each.
Send pattern ol hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to ns for price lists of anything you want. Hamas
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for sat *m
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales . . .
Barbers ’ Supply House
680*2 Oeorge-st,
SYDNEY.
New South Welshmen
Queenslanders
South Australians*
Westralians
New Zealanders
Tasmanians
Victorians
When visiting MELBOURNE find the
Federal Palaee Hotel
Exactly suited to their requirements.
It is conveniently situated
Being close to Spencer Street Station, the Steamship Wharves, and Centre of City.
Trams pass door to all suburbs.
It has 500 rooms for Visitors to choose from
At prices ranging from 2s. to 10s. per night and 12s. 6d. to £3 3s. per week.
There are two Dining Rooms and Cafe.
In the Upper Dining Room Table d’hote Breakfast, Lunch or Dinner at 2s. 6d. In
the Lower Dining Room Breakfast, Lunch or Tea, ala carte, from Is. In the Cafe,
Coffee and Rolls, &c., &c., 6d,
Hoarders’ It at es arejvery moderate .
Boarders’ inclusive rates run from ss. per day or 30s. per week, to 12s. 6d. per day or
£3 10s. per week.
For Families special quotations
are made, and the manager invites correspondence. There are all classes of rooms at all
prices. Cards of Tariff sent immediately on application.
The numerous Public Rooms are open
for the use of all visitors, and include Reading, Writing, Drawing, Reception, Billiard
and Smoking Rooms, &c.
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Manager.
Collios Street, MelboCiroe.
m.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Plutocrat to the Parson.
“ The rich run the churches, and the man who controls
a dozen stock corporations, because he owns the majority
of the shares, doesn’t see why he shouldn’t own a parish
because he pays the most money for its support.”
“More subscriptions ! Now, by thunder !
If you wish to share the plunder,
You must share the toil:
Not your r&le to scheme and make it,
Though your fingers itch to take it,
Trade your hands would soil.
“But, sir priest, I would remind you
That our partnership doth bind you
To uphold my rule.
You must quell the rabble’s riot;
Keep the starving workers quiet
Whilst I scoop the pool 1
“ Once, when you were poor and holy,
Preaching in a chapel lowly,
Men came there to pray.
Now you’re rich, with church and steeple,
All the beastly, common people
Sneer, and keep away.
“ Every year they’re growing bolder.
Since your power began to moulder
Theirs commenced to swell.
You —to please the upper classes—
Lost your hold upon the masses
When you preached no Hell.
“Now, you fear to mention Hades—
Lest you lose the few old ladies
Who still own your sway ;
While my workmen, steeped in evil,
Fearing neither God nor devil,
Strike for higher pay.
“You must liven up your patter —
Swells may like your soothing chatter—
Men of dollars don’t.
Teach the poor you’ve ruled for ages,
Heaven’s for those who take low wages—
Hell’s for those who won’t.
“ Teach of wealth the irksome duties—
Teach the poor man’s chaster beauties
Which the rich can’t share.
Tell them that the love of Mammon,
(’Course we know it’s only gammon)
Leadeth to despair.
“Not but they’ll reject your teaching
If your practice and your preaching
Keep so wide apart;
And the day the poor don’t heed you
Work you must —for we won’t need you
When our troubles start.
“ Here’s your cheque, and if you’d earn it,
Take this parable and learn it,
And the moral mark—
Little sprats are hard to dish
When the lazy pilot-fish
Hunts too near the shark."
CRIPPS CLARK.


THE
PLUM
m
Post free to any part of the colonies.
Price —SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AIXKE3NT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDATEY.
The Australian Widows’ paid [ife Assurance Society pd.
Established 1871.
rPHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, H.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £215,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TattcrSall’S Hotel
Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. J. Adams, Manager,
Ladies with families will find in this
handsome, newly-built, newly-furnished
hotel all the comforts of the best-
appointed homes, and an attention that
•vill please the most exacting,
Excellent Suites of Rooms,
Private Dining and Receptiot
Rooms.
Tariff: 10s. per day; £3 per week.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
m
SPECIAL VALUE &. REOfrSETE CONSTRUCTION
E.V.FINCKH&COB3YORK ST. SYDNEY.
Battery managers'
fGICfID
R.A.HERVEY.
171 CLARENCE ST
STICK T© \l
\ QR ME© \
\ CIGARETTES
NOBEL-£■ LAS (SOW EXPLOSIVES.
■
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
•
“Thistle” Brand.
sd
m
G
a
sVzinr.
50
BE
C *4SG&
f
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
AZili CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
AGENTS: N.S.W., Messrs. Ealyety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria ,
NOBEL’S Sportiog BALLISTITE.
Does not strain the gun, Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
Tt
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed
SPORTING’ BALLISTITE won over <£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurling-
k ham in April and May, 1899; or over* ,£lOOO more than any other powder.— Vvdc Field, June 24, ’99.
PAR VO 2-inch Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, alld can bd used in any chambered gun.
Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
OVER
One million lbs. Tobacco
450 TONS.
DIXSON & SONS’ Sydney Factory sold the above during year ending 30th June,
being 90i Tons above any other manufacturer.
Dixson’s Great Leading* Brand.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS -
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(by machinery), a marvel of cheapness.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1042.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1900.
Prioh 6d.
A BACK NUMBER-FROM THE ANCIENT SCRIPTURES.
At a meting of the Anti-Bill party (i.e., Jack Want, the Sydney D.T., John Haynes, and Geo. Pile’s Dog) it was decided that the party should be represented in England while the federal
Constitution Bill is before the imperial Parliament.
A free translation of the hieroglyphics on the wait leads as follows: — JAQUANT : “ Dead! Why he’s quite fresh. Packed in ice he’ll stand the voyage splendidly!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Austvalians.” '
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 Georqe Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum # ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 T 2 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
_ SOT ICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings, sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and aclcnowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tivo columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in. Jilack and White.
A nyone supplying to Tiif. Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion — i.efany picture which has to be re-drawn—will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<fc Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa.—it. A. Thompson and Co.. S Church
Street, Capetown; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of \\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland wilt be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—nou-
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/'Thb Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
TJteT^xzllelztfi.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1900.
The Federated Sweater.
Australia is boastingly trumpeted forth as the
land of the free, the prosperous, the contented !
But a nation is just as free, as prosperous, and as
contented as the most enslaved, the poorest and
most degraded section thereof. Our freedom,
prosperity and contentment are appraised by Mr.
Levi, M.L.C., of the Victorian Parliament, at four
shillings a day, or as much less as Necessity, in the
incarnation of the sweater, will compel a man to
clutch (while balancing himself on the top-rail'that
surrounds a pauper’s grave) as a bribe to Death
not to push him over. The complacent and im-
portant legislator just mentioned is a brazen and
unblushing advocate of the sacred cause of
Sweaterdom. He lays down the axiom that it is
much better for a man to work for four shillings a
day than it is for him to beg his bread. This, of
course, is mere assertion. It all depends how much
a man may be able to make by the begging pro-
cess. Moreover, it is merely a difference in terms.
The sweated are forced to beg for work, and it is
only their mendicancy in the matter of employ-
ment which enables the sweater to exploit them.
Again, in calmer moments, it may occur to the
Honorable-within-the-Province Levi, M.L.C.,
that it is much better for a man to work for eight
shillings a day than it is for him to work for four,
with the very problematical prospect of being able
to pay his baker’s bill at the latter munificent rate
as remuneration. Sweaterdom compri es a hier-
archy of many grades; and the horror and the
squalor of the sweated community permeates every
one. During the old slave-days in the Southern
United States, Sambo was flogged to the cotton-
fields by lick-spittles of his own hue, or by
things of European blood contemptuously labelled
by master and thrall alike as “ white trash.” In
Australia’s days of cOnvictism the hangman and
the wielder of the cat were mostly complacent
scoundrels whose ankles bore the callosities made
by leg-irons. A condition of Sweaterdom in any
community really benefits only the arch-sweater
seated on the apex of the system—and from any
genuinely democratic point of view he does not
signify.
* * * *
The occasion of the sapient Levi’s pronounce-
ment in the Victorian House of 48 Rich Land-
lords was the debate on the second reading of the
Factories Bill. The present Victorian anti-sweat-
ing law will shortly expire, aiij it is intended to
renew it with additions and improvements. In
the meantime, a Royal Commission is to be ap-
pointed for the purpose of inquiring into the whole
working of factory legislation; and at the end of
1902, the entire question is to be brought up for
legislative review in the light of more extended
experience. The existing Act protects only a few
trades against the evils of sweating; but both
employers and employes engaged in the cigar
trade, the saddlery trade, marble workers,
printers and tanners are anxious to come under
its operation. J. M. Davies, in moving the
second reading of the Bill in the Legislative
Council, stated that the majority of employers,
who might be justly regarded as fair-minded men,
had no taste for grinding the pay of the worker ;
but, as producers, they had to compete with the
sweating employers, who, as things at present
existed, might begin business anywhere, paying
sweating wages, and thus illegitimately undercut
the employer who paid a decent wage for moderate
hours of labor. The pro-sweating section of the
House made a determined set against the two-
years renewal of the Act ; but, to its grief, even
Frederick Softgoods Sargood announced him-
self as convinced that the Factories Bill of 1896
had done much good, and urged the Council to
pass the new enlarged measure with all possible
speed. As might have been expected, Sargood’s
admiration of the Act is largely modified by his
special and personal interests ; still, he holds that
tne law has justified itself, and that the Amending
Bill may be made a further improvement. There-
upon uprose in their objective and obstructive
might the Levis, the Grimwades, the Emblings,
and Reids. Also, Nathaniel Levi would not
have the Bill go to committee at any price, and
opposed legislative action regarding the relations
subsisting between employers and employed with
all the bitterness and all the callousness of the
White Waistcoat of vested interests.
* * * •
The great problem of how to deal with the
sweating system that lives and moves and has its
life-in-death in our midst is one of pith and
moment to every province. Until Federation is
really achieved, it is of especial moment to New
South Wales —the one virulently and pugnaciously
Freetrade State of the group. In New South
Wales we have the spectacle of a little over a
million of people arrayed against something like
twelve hundred millions, which are protected
against the competition of the single puny million
by prohibitive tariffs. Moreover, these outside
millions are always adding to their numbers, and
are literally ravening for the industrial blood of
their fellow men. With the introduction of the
horror of Free Competition we are simply institu-
ting old conditions on new shores. A Cheap
Labor Immigration Restriction Bill is not nearly
enough. We must have a full measure of a
Cheap Labor Goods’ Restriction Bill. By no other
course can the monster called “Sweating” be
strangled.
• * * •
Supercilious economists of the Freetrade school
fatuously ask, “ will Protection keep up the price
of wages?” The Bulletin replies, “the estab-
lishment of a reasonable minimum wage, together
with a rational working-day, is possible only under
a protective policy.” While the flood-gates of our
ports are open to the pauper-produced imports of
the rest of the world, wages must gravitate down-
wards till they reach the lowest standard ruling
in the cheapest labor market. If jute bags can
be made at a cost that will purchase for the maker
only a daily ration of rice, then, under a Free-
trade policy, jute manufactures are impossible of
establishment elsewhere, save under similar labor
conditions, plus a slight advance on jute-workers’
wages representing the cost of freight from India
—an advance so slight as to be almost infinitesimal.
The same rule applies to every other product. In
other words, Cobden is the patron saint of the
sweater, and the fiscal system which he formulated
is the religion of earth-wide pauperization. The
historic Plugson, manufacturer, is made by Car-
lyle to say, in that memorable address to his
workmen: “Noble spinners! we have gained a
hundred thousand pounds, which is mine; the*
three-and-sixpence daily ivas yours. Adieu, drink
my health with this groat each, which I give you
over and above.” But things have moved since
Carlyle’s day. Even the eleemosynary groat
gets no farther than the sweater’s pocket.
* * * •
Of course, it will be objected that a policy of
Protection sufficiently prohibitive to attain a
measure of practical Socialism (the only kind of
Socialism worth striving for) would institute a
condition of siege, of essential isolation. So be it!
That is the ideal machine which consumes its own
smoke. That is the ideal community which is
self-contained. A nation of four millions of pro-
ducers who are the consumers of their own pro-
ducts is a dream of an earthly Paradise, albeit
paralysingly shocking to the doctrinaires of the
school of universal exchange. Without complete
industrial independence, without an absolutely
free hand, there can be no adequate amelioration
of industrial- conditions, no adjustment of the
economic balance. With an impregnable barricade
against the paupers and the pauper-produced
goods of the outside world—with the rigid enforce-
ments of Acts providing a good minimum wage
and a minimum working week, sweating would be
strangled beyond hope of recovery—but Protec-
tion is imperative as a first condition in this march
of millennial progress. Yet people, and particu-
larly the representatives of Labor, are so short-
sighted that they are prepared to kick away
from their vantage-heights the very ladder by
which they have climbed so far. Maoriland is
pointed at as the exemplar, par excellence, , in the
field of domestic legislation ; and now some of the
Labor members in Mabriland Parliament are
falling away from grace, and if they do , not be-
think themselves in time they will furnish'forth
an object lesson of a very different sort.
* * * *
The public works policy introduced in Maori-
land by Julius Vogel, shorn as it was of the re-
cuperative proposals of that politician, plunged
the province in the mire of impending insolvency.
Things became so bad that they could hardly
become worse. Each succeeding Treasurer was a
mere conjurer, whose sole object was a successful
juggle to stave off a deficit; and it was a matter
of necessity rather than of principle that drove
him to the Customs. In the course of their
financial flounderings Maoriland’s various rulers
of the public purse inadvertently created a policy
which gave an undoubted stimulus to the creation
of local industries. The thing was done. It was
a case of Jonah’s gourd; and Atkinson, who dis-
claimed fiscal bias of any sort, awakened to the
fact that his own effort to replenish his treasury
had constituted him, all unwittingly, the father of
Protection. The factories of Maoriland now em-
ploy over 28,000 hands, with an annual output of
some £10,000,000 sterling. To the needs of the
Treasury such industries as woollen manufac-
tures, printing, clothing manufactures, iron and
steel manufactures, tanning, boot-making,
furniture-making, brewing, jam-making, and
brick and tile making owe their exist-
ence. The province was secured, and was en-
abled to turn its attention to the labor problem
and to domestic legislation generally. Act fol-
lowed Act with crushing democratic tendency. A
mere recital of their titles will show what Protec-
tion has enabled Maoriland to do in the way of
ameliorating industrial conditions and safeguard-
ing the interests of Labor. Among other laws
passed into operation were the Employers’ Lia-
bility Act, the Truck Act, the Factories Act of
1894 with the Amending Act of 1896, the Trades
Union Act, the Shipping and Seamen’s Act, the
Coal Mines Act, the Act establishing a State
Bank, the Advances to Settlers’ Act, the Old Age
Pensions Act, etc., etc. But all this progressive
legislation would have been totally impossible in a
country exposed to the competition of the fifteen-
shillings-per-week Britisher or the two-annas-a-day
Hindoo. And now certain Maoriland Laborists
are agitating for the reduction, and some for
the total abolition, of the Customs duties. If
they succeed the whole fabric of progressive
legislation must go down. If Freetrade comes to
Maoriland, in every industry which is exposed to
the competition of foreigners working 12 hours a
day for about half the Maoriland rate of wages (in
other words, in about 50 per cent, of the local
manufactures) the country will have to choosebe-
tween the two alternatives. It may go in for
longer hours and lower wages so as to hold its own
in unrestricted competition with the cheap
foreigner. Or it may let the industries die.
« * * *
The downfall of sweaterdom can only arrive
with a uniform all-Australian Protective tariff.
Within a few months Australia will be one
Federated Nation with a uniform tariff, and it is
the duty of the first Federal Parliament to build
soundly and surely for Australia as against the
world. With a protective tariff, which can hardly
be too prohibitive to be adequate for our future
safety, should be concurrently enacted laws
minimising the working week and the daily pay-
ment. We should not thereby create a nation of
millionaires, but we should establish such condi-
tions for the broad good of all, that no sweater
could breathe the air of this continent and live,
Let the world take care of its own paupers, and
consume its own pauper-produced manufactures !
Why should Australia offer a dumping-ground to
the white-slave-wrought goods of Europe and
Asia. We have here our own future to look to ;
our own streets to sweep. Labor we may take
f ro m the Old World. The land is hungering for
human muscle. But let us take that labor on our
own terms ;in our own good time. On the very
eve of Federation we have'an opportunity to re-
fuse ma ke fat dividends for foreign syndicates,
and to permit our citizens to become the bond-
slaves of capitalised greed. Under Freetrade the
local sweater is made possible by the existence of
tfie oversea sweater, and we must shut our front-
door in the latter gentleman’s face. *
°
Our Little Fenny Inquisition.
Fbeedom of thought has, to some extent, left off
in Australia. Freedom of speech, in the case of
the man who is dependent on his billet for his
daily bread, has considerably left off also. The
Australian Inquisition sits in high places, and
toleration has been turned off, as far as possible,
at the tap. Over a great part of Eastern Aus-
tralia anybody who has doubts about the justice
of Britain’s present war (just as a third of the
British House of Commons has doubts, and just
as most of England now has doubts about the
justice of the Opium War and the bombardment
of Copenhagen in peace-time) is called a “ pro-
Boer.” And to be, or to be suspected of being, a
“pro-Boer” is, in many cases, now to get the
sack, or to run great risk of getting it. Certain
employers, in their anxiety to prove their alleged
patriotism (“ Patriotism,” said Dr. Johnson, “ is
the last refuge of scoundrels ”) now threaten
to discharge on sight the person who is
not quite sure that the Transvaal war is
wholly just, unless he lies about his opinions.
The S.A. Government, in the length and breadth
and depth of its crawlsomeness, warns public ser-
vants that those who are not quite convinced of
the justice of the Transvaal war are liable to ejec-
tion, unless they take refuge in falsehood and say
they are sure. Education Minister Perky, of
N.S. W., does likewise. Sundry municipal coun-
cils intimate that corporation employees who are
not solid on the question of war must go—unless
they lie about it. Things haven’t yet gone so far
that the man who isn’t quite convinced about the
justice of the Crimean war, or the bombardment
of Copenhagen, or the Hundred Years War with
France, or the English invasion of Scotland some
600 years ago, is in danger of losing his means of
livelihood, but doubtless, in the full and logical
measure of Australian loyalism, that is coming.
* * * *
Loyalty leads to strange doings. The creed of
the Australian loyalist is something like this: —
We know that Britain is about as liable to be wrong as
any other country. We have a Bible which tells us we
are all miserable sinners. As Christians we believe in the
Bible in theory. Therefore Bxitish statesmen are miser-
able and imperfect sinners like everybody else.
But when it comes to war the Bible goes overboard and
our Christianity departs into the ash-barrel. Then you
must be loyal. To be loyal you must always swear that
Britain is right in everything and at all times. To be
loyal you must hold that Britain is perfect, sinless, and
can do no wrong. If there is a God who said that every-
body is a sinner then so much the worse for that God just
now.
Or if you don’t believe that Britain is always and wholly
and invariably right you must be a despicable Ananias
and say that you do, or you aren’t loyal. And it is
essential to be loyal.
And if you dou’t believe in the impious and blasphem-
ous doctrine that Britain must always be right, or if you
are not sufficient of a liar to say you do, you risk the loss
of your employment and your means of livelihood. As
loyal and honorable men we claim the right to do our best
to starve your wife and your children and your infant
because of your opinions. We are men — fine, large, manly
men with great souls and the fire of patriotism aglow in
our bosoms ; and taking a mean revenge on your infant is
jiist about our size.
Australia prides itself on its freedom and its broad
toleration. In Australia you may have doubts about the
justice of God, and there is hardly an employer in the
land who will discharge you for your opinions. If he did
he would be scorned as a bigot. But if you have
doubts about the absolute justice of John Bull,
who is more important than God, that is a different
matter—wholly different. You may have no faith in the
Saviour and the only result is that you will be put down
in the census as a Freethinker, but if you have no faith in
Salisbury and Chamberlain you are anathema. You
may disbelieve the goodness of the Creator and it is no-
thing, but if you doubt the absolute goodness of Bull
loyal employers will spurn you. And venal clergymen
who are willing to take the atheist by the hand as a mis-
guided brother will cast you off, and venal politicians who
are indifferent to the Lord will pour the vials of their
scorn upon you for being indifferent to Bull.
• » * *
Aftet all, the Spanish Inquisition was, in some
respects, a nobler thing than the Australian loyal
employer of to-day. It used its powers to the
utmost to make people have, or falsely allege they
had, what it considered a right opinion about God.
The loyal Australian Government and the loyal
Australian Municipal Council use their much
smaller power to make people have, or falsely
allege they have, what the Government
and the Council consider a right opinion
about John Bull. They haven’t the excuse
that the person who hasn’t a right opinion
about John Bull, just now, is a present danger to
the State; for there is no war in Australia, and the
views of this or that civil servant or corporation
labourer can make no real difference in the issue.
Their action is based purely on tyranny and in-
tolerance. It is cheering, at least, to note that
the intolerance is all on the loyalist side. No
person who did not approve of the present war
has yet been heard of as threatening to discharge
employees because they did approve. The Bulle-
tin has sundry violent loyalists in its employ, but
the idea of interfering with their opinions never
occurred to it; and even the most frantia
jingo organ has never ventured to allege that any
anti-jingo employer has interfered with his em-
ployees because they were not ditto. Yet the anti-
jingo has the same right to brand his views as
“ loyalty”—the only true and unadulterated kind
of loyalty—as the other man, and to set up his
little Inquisition for the suppression of disloyalty.
Even in England, though England is much more
directly interested in the results of the Transvaal
war than Australia, the kind of bigotry which is
raging here is very little heard of, or heard of in a
much milder form. By comparison with the Aus-
tralian jingo the English jingo is tolerant and
liberal-minded. And if he ever fully understands
the doings of his Australian imitator he will
probably view him with contempt and loathing
as a narrow bigot and unpleasant survival of the
Dark Ages.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lyne’s Opportunity.
Premier Lyne, of N.S. W., has announced that he
is going back to the comparatively honest ways of
the old Dibbs Ministry in the matter of paying
for a large number of small, unproductive, yet
necessary works out of revenue instead of out of
loans. So far the going back isn’t apparent; in
fact Lyne, judged by his first batch of loan esti-
mates, is worse than the awful Reid at his very
worst so far as the loan fraud is concerned. Still
it is possible he means to reform by-and-by.
Therefore it is worth while mentioning to him
that if he merely goes back to ways of moderate
honesty without fixing the new system by the
most definite and comprehensive Act of Parlia-
ment that he and B. R. Wise can construct, he is
Lost. He is so completely Lost, in fact, that the
word hardly even begins to express how Lost he
is. Years ago Dibbs tried something of the kind,
and, naturally, the ordinary expenditure went up.
It was impossible to transfer a large number of
charges from loans to ordinary expenditure with-
out making the ordinary expenditure larger. Then
a fat deceiver with a bright glazed eye went
through the length and breadth of the land
denouncing the Dibbs Government as a madly
extravagant combination which spent a fearful
amount of money. The deceiver with the shining
eye got into office on that cry, and cut down
ordinary expenditure greatly (on paper), partly by
paying things out of loans that Dibbs paid out of
ordinary revenue (thereby increasing the loan ex-
penditure from £1,330,000 to over £2,000,000 a
year), and partly by carrying liabilities forward.
The public didn’t trouble about details —it only
looked at the total of the ordinary expenditure;
and it said that the great faker of the public ac-
counts was evidently a reformer of the best type.
If the Dibbs-Lyne Ministry had known enough to
embody its policy in an Act of Parliament,
then Reid would have been compelled either
to publicly repeal that Act and thereby
give away the whole secret of his alleged
economy, or he would have had to spend
as much money as his predecessors, and he
would never have remained in office five
years on the strength of a financial reputation
gained by false pretences. If Lyne is
going to be even partly honest in loan
matters (which appears eminently improbable
just now), his expenditure must go up
again, and again he of the glazed eye and the un-
reliable balance-sheet will gain kudos by pointing
out how much more cheaply he ran the country’s
affairs, and how much more cheaply he will run
them when he gets in again, Therefore, four Acts
of Parliament are wanted to this effect:
(1) That no repairs, or public works that are merely in
replacement of worn-out works previously charged to
loans, shall be paid for with borrowed money. And that
no new works which don’t yield direct revenue —no roads,
fortifications, ammunition, bridges (unless they pay for
themselves in whole or part by tolls), gaols, asylums, etc.,
shall be charged to loans.
(2) That all interest and sinking fund accrued and due
Spectators.
When the merry, merry Maxim hurls a shower of
leaden hail,
When the Lyddite drops in dozens and the rifles
spit and rail,
There’s a Zulu marks the mischief, there’s a Kaffir
keeps the score,
And they tell the tale of vengeance off on British
dead and Boer;
For the sable prophets say,
When the strife has passed away
And the White has wrought his ruin—O the Black
shall have his Day !
So he watches grim and silent—sees the blood of
Europe run.
And he learns his lesson duly and he takes his fill
of fun;
O his back, it knows the burden of the Stranger
well, I ween,
And his shoulders carry token that the Stranger’s
lash is keen;
But the merry bullets say :
“ O ye Sons of Ham, be gay ;
When the White has wrought his ruin— then the
Black shall have his Day ! ”
And the pallid Northern peoples who have tied
him to their plough,
He shall blast them in his fury as a flame among
the tow;
For there breaks a wondrous vision on the brood-
ing Kaffir brain,
With a roll of drums barbaric and a fall of bloody
rain,
There’s a serf that goes to slay,
There’s a serf that wins a fray,
There’s a rueful time o’ reck’ning when the Black
shall have his Day !
So they gather, do the bondsmen, in the gloaming
at the kraal,
And they laugh to tell of legions that shall sleep
beside the Vaal,
For it matters not who perish—be they British-
bred or Boer—
They were ever but as drivers—with a bitter hand
and sore:
So the merry bugles play—
“ O, ye sons of Ham, be gay,
When the White has wrought his ruin— then the
Black shall have his Day ! ”
P. LUPTIG.


at the end of any financial year, even though it may not
be actually paid, shall be charged to that financial year.
Thus if six months’ interest or sinking fund is due for the
half-year from Ist February to 31st July, five-sixths of the
amount will be charged in the accounts of the financial
year which ends on 30th June.
(3) That no existing funds, now set aside for special
purposes, shall be diverted to revenue, but if no
longer required for their present purpose, they may be
handed over to trustees and used in part-payment of the
next loan that requires renewal. This will prevent Reid,
when next he gets into office, following up his seizure of
the Church and School Fund by the annexation of the
Real Property Insurance Fund, or other trust money for
revenue purposes.
(4) That the net surplus at the end of the year (when there
is one) shall be certified to by the Auditor-General, and
handed over to trustees to be used in partial repayment
of the next loan which has to be renewed. That, no credit
balances be carried forward. But that the debit balance,
when there is one, shall be carried forward till extin-
guished by future surpluses.
If the Lyne Government passes these four laws, to
come in force at the beginning of next financial
year, its own reputation for political honesty will
begin to look genuine, and there will be a very
much smaller lion with a glass eye in its path, and
G. Reid will hunt for office with much less
assiduity. The principal dodges and wiles by
which he built up his repute as a financier will be
shut off at the meter. He could never pose as the
great and glorious economist again, for the only
kind of economy he knows would be abolished.
And if Reid did get into office with these four
Acts to enforce compulsory honesty upon him he
would be such a different Reid from the old sam-
ple that he would probably make his final exit
mside 12 months.
♦
Identification.
The usual game of “identification” is being
played in the case of Jones, the obscure person
charged with the murder of a little girl at Broad-
ford (Victoria). There was an inquest, of course,
and the police called a large number of witnesses,
slowly building up their case in the quaint fashion
of their kind. Here is a day’s evidence boiled
down from the Age report: —
Dr. Morton testified that the death of Olive Rita Jones
was caused by suffocation. (He gave no evidence what-
ever against the accused, but dealt with the state of the
body only.)
Dr. Mollison gave similar evidence.
Government Analyst Blacket testified that there was
no blood on a knife and cleaver submitted to him, and
none on Jones’s clothes.
William Palmer swore that he saw a man something
like Jones come out of Doherty’s shop and lean against
a post at 12.30 on Boxing Day. Didn’t even know whether
the man was dark or fair, but was still sure that he was
something like Jones. (Possibly murderers are specially
liable to lean against posts at 12.30.)
Albert Wilson (also called as a witness against Jones)
said he knew deceased, but hadn’t seen Jones speaking to
her.
Arabella Olark said that, on the day of the murder,
she saw a man with clothes something like Jones’s about
the boiling-down premises where the body was found.
Rose Jones said that the accused had once touched the
murdered child on the chin, saying she was “ a nice girl."
Emma Wriqiit saw a man with clothes like Jones’s some
miles away from the scene of the murder, and three days
after it was committed. Thought he looked as if he was
hiding. Identified Jones by the clothes only as the man.
Then the coroner’s jury found that Jones had
committed the murder, and he was sent up for
trial. Possibly he did commit it, and though the
above was one full day’s evidence there were, in
the previous evidence, some matters that looked
really suspicious. But a very large proportion
of the witnesses for the prosecution were people
who either swore that they weren’t sure they
had seen Jones anywhere, or that they believed
they had seen Jones doing something quite harm-
less. In the mind of the average juryman the
accumulated testimony of 10 people who saw
Jones doing no harm, and 10 more who weren’t
sure they had seen Jones at all, gradually
accumulates into much the same thing as if one
witness had definitely and positively seen J ones
doing something awful. And a gradual feeling
that Jones has been positively identified arises
out of the accumulated testimony of many people,
not one of whom really identifies J ones at all.
Early-Closing and Ruin.
The Sydney long-hour people are running a feeble
little born-dead agitation against the Early-Closing
Act, mostly in the correspondence columns of the
daily papers. All the good old cant terms about
‘ ‘ freedom ” and the ‘ ‘ British flag ” and the
“ashes of our fathers” are on deck again in this
agitation ; it is a cold occasion and a lame subject
when the ashes of our fathers won’t come in some-
where. As one excited correspondent a fair
sample of many—said recently in the Evening
News: “The country that builds on these lines
cannot stand. We must be ruled by the mob
before long; it is coming hard and fast; and
unless something is done we shall lose that which
our forefathers fought to give us British subjects to
stand firm and protect for ever. ... If we must
fall after doing our best to make the suburbs around
the city of Sydney what they are to-day—an orna-
ment to any part of the world—then we die game,”
&c. Wherefore it appears that our forefathers
struck for the blessed privilege of late closing—
date of the battle where the army of long-hour
shopkeepers fought to the bitter end for freedom
to keep the gas-jet Burning till 11 p.m. not men-
tioned. Most authorities have imagined that our
British forefathers fought for the privilege of self*,
government —government by the majority—the
same majority which decreed early-closing; but it
seems this theory is all wrong. The long-hour
shopkeeper holds that Parliamentary government
by the majority—the “mob” as he calls it—is
just what our forefathers fought against. Hamp-
den and Ceomwell, it seems, were really fighting
to prevent the people governing themselves, and
their struggles were really a heroic effort to keep
shops open late, and the war ended by a brutal
and arrogant early-closing king losing his head
at Whitehall. Anyhow, the warning that a
country cannot last which builds on the
lines of majority rule, and which sinks into
early - closing, sends a cold chill through
this paper’s back spine. For if late hours in shops
are the secret of Australia’s greatness, and the
tired shop-assistant tottering home at 11 p.m. is its
prop and stay, and the lamp of liberty and truth
is the gas-jet in the window of the gloomy little
grocery emporium, then Australia is slithering
down the giddy slope that leads to ruin right
enough. All the same, the long-hour trader rattier
gives away his own case. He asserts that it is he
and his band who have labored to provide Sydney
with its present set of suburbs—a more'awful lot
of ‘ suburbs than are to be found in tiny other
among the dozen or two of cities which the world
has produced this century. He a parbntly claims
credit for the narrowness and crookedness of their
ways, for the angular back-lanes, for the crazy
wooden fences, the want of any decent building
regulations, and all the aberrations of the 41 sets
of aldermen. And, if the crime he claims credit
for can be sheeted home to. him, what ho requires
is not early-closing, but execution.
A Matter of Dates.
Thb Crimean war is almost universally described
nowadays as a colossal blunder Britain went
to war then to prop up a most hopeless and de
graded and brutalised Moslem Government—that
Sf the loony Sultan Abdul-Medjid ; yet over this
tremendous bloodshedding, undertaken m defence
of a crumbling dynasty of tyrants, and tor tne
purpose of keeping heathendom alive m Europe,
Britain was then far more enthusiastic than she is
over the anti-KRUGER campaign now. Gordon, in
his “ Life of Lord Aberdeen,” says :
Whigs and Tories and Radicals, men and women, young-
and old, orators on platforms, and preachers in the
pulpit, vied with one another in denunciations of the am-
bitions of Russia. ... A few men in the Cabinet and a
few dispassionate men out of office, such as Lord drey,
Bright and Gop.den, strove in vain to recall the nation to
a sense of the losses and risks involved in war, and the
inadequacy of the motives for incurring them. . . .
Those who still preached peace were branded as men m*
different to the honor of the country, if not indeed
something worse ! !
The few sober men who protested against the
great and useless Crimean foolishness were howled
at then as traitors just as The Bulletin, and those
of its way of thinking, are denounced over the
Transvaal crime now. So were the men who pro-
tested at the time against the war with the Ameri-
can colonies, the opium campaign in China, and
every other war. Britain is now full of Crimean
traitors, and traitors who denounce the great war
with the American colonies —they probably repre-
sent three-fourths of the thinking community. It
may be equally full of Transvaal traitors ten years
hence. It is quite as traitorous to object to Britain s
Crimean blunder as its Transvaal blunder,
and half the Jingoes in Australia are traitors.
The other half probably would be if they knew
enough. The Jingo’s theory can be compressed
into a sentence : To protest against a foolish and
criminal war at the time, when it is possible that
some good may be effected, is always to commit a
hideous sin. To protest against it ten or twenty
or thirty for forty or a hundred years afterwards,
when no good can be effected, is to be a dispas-
sionate historian and a high-minded patriot.
Every man who is called a dispassionate historian
now would have been a traitor if he had been born
a sufficient number of years earlier. And the
Jingo who “stoushes” his neighbor for objecting
to the Boer war now is probably a traitor himself
who deserves to be stoushed for not approving of
his country’s doings in the Crusades, or some of its
proceedings in India, or the miserable German
wars it undertook in defence of Hanover, _ or the
bombardment of Copenhagen in peace time, or
other bygone episodes of the kind.
-
Duncan’s Pound of Flesh.
The announcement made by Premier M‘Lean
that his Government sees no necessity for any re-
duction in the size of the Victorian Parliament
even when half its work—by far the most impor-
tant half —is taken over by the Federal Legislature,
is probably part of the price that that hybrid
gathering has to pay for Duncan Gillies’s sup-
port. The M‘Lean Government is supposed to be
a Liberal one. ' It ousted the Liberal Government
of Turner oil the ground that the Turner com-
bination didn’t progress fast enough in the right
path. Yet, whatever precarious hold on office it
ever possessed, was solely owing to the support it
received from the Tory party led by Gillies. And
now Duncan’s party evidently wants its pound
of flesh, full weight. The real strength of the
Gillies party lies in the Upper House, and t e
reform of that dreadful institution has been tl e
ambition of every true Liberal for many
years. The trouble has always been that the
48 Rich Landlords were practically immovable.
They are elected on a narrow property franchise,
therefore a great part of the Liberal party has no
voice in their appointment. Only rich landlords
are eligible to sit in the Council, therefore it is
almost impossible to find any -but virulently Tory
candidates. The Council isn’t dissolvable; its
members have an enormously long term of office;
there is no such thing as a general Council elec-
tion ; and in the all-round hopelessness of the case
public interest in the creation of an occasional
new M.L.C. is deader than Pharaoh’s war-horse.
The Council can’t be refprmed by ordinary means,
at ordinary times, for it won’t even look at a
Reform Bill, and casts out anything of the kind
with a shudder as if it were a dead fish on a shovel,
and no Premier has yet arisen with courage
enough to shift it by extraordinary means.
But there seemed in the beginning of the
Commonwealth a gleam of hope, and a
possible chance of doing something with the
House that throws out all progressive measures.
It was agreed by almost everybody that, when so
much of the State Legislature’s work was handed
over to the Federal Parliament, Victoria could do
with a smaller and cheaper and simpler legislative
system. There was to be a general cleanmg-up
and a general starting afresh, and there really
seemed a fair possibility that in the cleanmg-up
process something good would be done to the
House of Landlords. The House of Landlords
itself seemed to realise that a time was coming
when it couldn’t, with any semblance of decency,
refuse to consider its own reformation, and once
or twice it spoke almost reasonably on the subject.
And now the alleged Liberal M‘Lean comes with
the comforting news that it isn’t necessary to do
anything—to reduce the Legislature in any way—
to have any cleaning-up, or to shift any of the old
landmarks. He rises to assure the Council that it
was quite wrong in the supposition that it would
really, at long last, have to consider the question
of reform, for everything can go on comfortably in
the old groove. Premier M‘Lean seems a very
expensive bargain at the price.
The Australian Patriot.
He was a patriot. Not one of those
Who with his body faced his country’s foes,
To win its blessing and a foeman's curse.
Not one of those was he. His country thanks
This noble patriot’s .balance at the banks,
And knights him as a Patriot of the Purse.
He hears “ the Empire call ’’—the Motherland ;
And stretches straight a generous helping hand. -
Then smiles to hear her people cry “ Well do. .
Though other calls have fallen on deaf ears,
The “ Mother Country's cry’:’ lie instant hears ;
His purse is open and a knighthood won.
His ears are deaf, his eyes they cannot see
The crime beside his door —the misery.
’Twas distance ever made a thing sublime
And, though the slums—vile kennels of the po >
May seethe and stink beside his very door,
He neither heeds nor helps to stay the .crime.
Is it that these who cry to thee for bread
Have no reward to shower on thy head ?
Canst thou unheeding hear thy country’s claim?
Then from the Empire seek thine own reward.
Thy country holds thee loathsome and abhorred,
And counts thy titles but thy badge of shame.
C.P.Q.C.
The anti-Federal meeting held last week m Syd-
ney was a woeful little fizzle. The Remnant
gathered themselves together in a room at a hotel
—to show off such a mockery of a gathering in a
hall, even in a very small hall, would have been
like a meeting of one fly in a dried-up lake. And
even the Remnant wasn’t unanimous. Dibbs and
M‘Laubin both pointed out that the cause of Dis-
union was lost, and to send a Disunionist delegate
to England now was only stubbing a bare toe
against the Inevitable. The man with most fig! it
in him was ex-Attorney-General Want from
Japan and Egypt. Want was wildly and bitterly
angry at the proposal to send (by Chamberlain s
special request) a Federal mission to England to
help in seeing the Commonwealth Bill through
the British Parliament, and said these things in
his wrath:
The only excuse Mr. Lynk had for disregarding that
statement was that Mr. Chamberlain had suggested that
someone should go. He did not know at whose instiga-
tion that suggestion was made, but it looked to have
come from some of those colonies who wished to keep in
the Bill the clauses to which the 82,000 people who voted
against the Bill in N.S.W. objected.
The boss Disunionist can’t even begin to realise
that the majority in Queensland, N.S.W., Vic-
toria, S.A. and Tasmania is all equally solid on
keeping in the Bill the clauses to which the
N.S.W. 82,000 minority objected. It didnt
require any of the other ‘ ‘ colonies ” to suggest to
Chamberlain the advisability of keeping these
objected-to clauses in the Bill. N.S.W. made the
suggestion loudly enough the day it crumpled up
the Want party and threw it away.
4.
Already in Australia one man has been murdered
and many brutally assaulted and ill-used by
gangs of blood-drunken bogus “patriots” for
not being fully convinced of the justice of
the Transvaal war. And absolutely nothing has
been heard yet of any serious attempts to
cope with this alarming epidemic of crime. So
far, all the brutality has been on one side at
least, nothing has been heard up to date of any
jingo being assaulted for his jingoism by anybody
of the other way of thinking. The situation is a
curious one. A gang of politicians who live on
Australian money have laid it down that tree
speech is a crime and that free thought b an
outrage, and that whoever doesn’t say that
John Bull’s wars are always just, whether they
are or not, is a person who should be held accursed.
In the alleged interests of freedom Australia has
become almost as devoid of personal freedom as
the Transvaal was accused of being even by its
enemies. The Transvaal Boers who broke up a
certain meeting of Outlanders at Johannesburg
have their counterparts in the Australian Boers
who broke up Holman’s meeting at Hobart. 1 lie
British subjects in the Transvaal alleged to have
been ill-treated by Boers at different times in the
last ten years for. not being of the Boer
way of thinking and acting seem by all
accounts to be about as numerous as the
British subjects who have been battered by alleged
patriots in Australia in the last month for not
being of their way of thinking. The Iransvaal
press, which is accused of having slurred over
these acts, has its counterpart in the Australian
Respectable press, which reports in a senn-humor-
ous vein, and without a word of reproach, the
brutalities done on people who aren’t convinced
that this war is necessarily a just one and
worthy of the blessings of Heaven, and who were
rash enough to make the fact known. The present
outbreak of patriotism is certainly not doing any-
thing to elevate the Australian character.
-V
When it seems really necessary to make some re-
marks about Australia’s cowardly policy of never
facing its financial responsibilities, but always
passing them on to the infant in the form of loans,
which the infant will have to face when he grows
up, the average Australian paper consoles itself
with a certain flattering lie which is getting a,
trifle threadbare by now. Last Friday, it turned
up again in the Australian Star, as follows :
In the same period the public debt has been in-
creased from £16,770,000 (or £22 12s. Id. per head of the
population) to about £52,000,000 (or something over £44
per head). As a set-off against this enormous expenditure
of loan money the public have a vast railway system, the
money value of which is equal, probably, to the whole
amount of the public debt.
It is a very consoling invention—and also very
thin. The net revenue of the N.S.W. railways
would about pay 2 per cent, on the province’s
public debt. If this country can borrow at 2 per
cent., then they are fair value for the public debt
—but it can’t. If any syndicate would go with its
eyes open into an investment which would yield
about 2 per cent., then the N.S.W. railways would
sell for enough to pay off the public debt—but syndi-
cates aren’t built that way. The N.S.W. lines
would probably sell for a little over half the public
debt; other assets represent part of the balance ;
and at least £10,000,000 represents nothing ex-
cept the fact that the province never had the
courage to face its liabilities. And with one
exception the other provinces are as bad, or worse.
Victoria's House of 48 Rich Landlords has been
giving the thing away most foolishly. The game
is to declare through whirling foam, and with the
hysterical gesticulation of an ape that has just
eaten something hot, that this country is in favor
of the war in its whole length and. breadth, and
from back-hair to bedrock. And yet members
were busy for an hour or more the other night
trotting out demoralising instances of what they
called “disloyalty” on the part of civil servants
and others. Sargood, the military softgoods man
who carved his way to glory with a yardstick,
wailed of railway stations “seething with dis-
loyalty,” and school-teachers “ who used offensive
language towards Her Majesty,” and cited
alleged cases without end to prove that the
people are saturated with general devilment.
Sargood wants the Government to do something
vicious, but there are fat men with leveller heads
who have their suspicions of the carpet and bed-
curtain knight, and wonder bitterly what Her
Gracious Majesty will think of all this. The Leg.
Council has a contempt for truth that is not bred
of familiarity, but it has also touches of diplomacy.
Ancl it wants to know what is the use of declaring
at one moment that Victoria is loyal to the core,
and the next that it is seething with disloyalty and
severe measures are necessary to leer-rush the evil
oirit.
Chamberlain is suspected in some, quarters of
wanting a change in the Federal Bill in respect to
the- Gov.-General. When N.S.W. Constitution
Bill reached London in Earl Grey’s time, Grey
demurred strongly to N.S.W. paying the Gover-
nor’s salary. He argued that if Britain retained
die right to appoint a Gov. the duty of paying;
him also devolved upon her. He foresaw that if
Australia paid its Governors it would, sooner or
later, want a voice in their appointment, anti in
time'a controlling influence. The former of ( these
stages was reached at the time policeman Blake
was appointed to the Governorship of Queensland,
and the latter is arriving gradually. It is conjec-
tured that the Grey theory will again be broached
when the Federal Constitution goes up for ap-
proval.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) Herald item
In consequence of several complaints by subscribers re-
ceived by the committee of the Newcastle School of Arts,
that the articles at present appearing in a certain illus-
trated Sydney weekly paper were disloyal and treason-
able, the committee last night met, and came to the con-
clusion that a State-aided institution such as the School
of Arts, which has about 1000 members, should not sup-
port such a publication. The secretary was thereupon
instructed to discontinue allowing the paper in question
to appear upon the tables of the institution. It is under-
stood that this embargo will be upon the paper until such
time as, in the opinion of the committee, the policy of the
journal commends itself to true British ideas. The
majority of the members were strongly of opinion that
the articles were disloyal and treasonable.
May God bless that committee and keep it in that
frame of mind ! Also, the same blessing applies
to sundry other committees who have gone and
done likewise. In a School of Arts one Bulletin
does for perhaps 200 people. When the com-
mittee expels this treasonable organ from the
premises about 100 of these people do without
seeing The Bulletin. The other 100 buy it, and
the circulation goes up 99. And so this paper
blesses that committee some more. Reading-
rooms, where 200 people who ought to buy a paper
each patiently thumb over in turn the same
tattered and greasy and dog-eared copy, are an
enduring curse to The Bulletin proprietary, and
an awful example of how far one sixpenn’orth of
reading matter can be made go. But for them
the circulation would go up till the top of it
would be invisible among the clouds, and the news
that the reading-room curse has left off m a few
places is gladdening.
N.S.W. Labor-Member Holman, at the request
of some Hobart democratic leaguers, the other
night attempted to deliver a lecture on “ Labor
and Militarism.” Holman spoke brilliantly for
twenty minutes, then a crowd of angry and
wild-eyed hoodlums and a small army of blue-
jackets invaded the hall, and hustled Holman off his
platform. Just as the scuffle was beginning to get
interesting the police arrived, and, of course, took
Holman in charge for being assaulted, while the
blue-jackets howled “Rule Britannia with
variations. Tor this scandalous suppiession
of free speech Hobart’s daily papers were
indirectly responsible, inspired paragraphs of
“Don’t put his head under the pump ’ order
having appeared therein several times prior to the
meeting. Explanations are not expected from the
Admiral of the Squadron as to the right of Aus-
tralian-maintained bluejackets to suppress Aus-
tralian free speech, though something of the kind
is much wanted. The Jingo has two different
attitudes just now : (1) This is the freest country
in the world, and everybody in it ought to be
grateful that he lives in it. (2) Therefore because
this is the freest country in the world, everybody
should approve of the war by compulsion and there
should be no freedom at all.
+ .
“Cherry-Picker” writes:—
As an ex-British cavalry-man, I trust you will let me
say a word concerning the extraordinary on
your “ Bed Page” (30/12/’99). In the first place, against
young 1 Churchill’s statement about the treatment of the
wounded Dervishes at Omdurman must be placed the re-
marks of Neufeld. The latter, in his recently-published
book, actually blames the Sirdar for undue leniency to
the Arabs, and says that as a matter of self-defence in-
structions should have been given to send a bullet
into any recumbent figure of a Dervish before ap-
proaching. Also, that not till many well - meaning
Tommies had been killed by wounded Dervishes
whom they advanced to succour was it resolved
to regard partly-disabled dervishes as still combative.
Then, as to the alleged “ educated Syrian, Shibley ”—his
preposterous statements carry on the face of them their
own refutation. The Egyptians “ were the arm and
sinew of the enterprise.” Why, the “Gippies’ were
universally condemned as spiritless cowards till taken in
hand by British officers. And they’re only middling yet.
Again, “the Soudanese were ever pushed m the van,
although the British gave them no credit for their fight-
ing.” Well, in the much I have read about this war the
Soudanese have received high praise from the British
for their soldierly qualities, but they were never placed in
the van ? The dangerous and responsible positions in the
various battles (according to plans both official and un-
official) were almost invariably held by British regiments
—usually the Highlanders, whose grit not even The
Bulletin will question. But of all this ‘ ‘ Syrian’s ” state-
ments, the most absurd is that about the “ pampered
sons of earls and dukes, safely bivouacked in the rear.’
To anybody who knows what British officers aye such an
assertion is preposterous in the last degree, and as to the
statement about being slashed in the back while galloping
away from their foes—how, if this were so, did Shibley
manage to see it. He was with the main body of
the army which had just started to leave the
battlefield, and the Lancers were, at least, two
miles away when they encountered the Dervishes.
And, as to the alleged turning tail and bolting, all oilier
accounts of the fight agree in stating that the Lancers cut
their way through the enemy, then formed up further on,
dismounted,’ and with their carbine-fire forced the
Dervishes to retire. As for wounds on the back of man and
horse such were certain to be received when the Lancers
were struggling in the midst of the closely packed enemy.
On the whole, this “ educated Syrian’s ” bitter animus is
so apparent as to defeat his own purpose ; and if, as you
say, Tommy Atkins is being slaughtered on behalf of the
London Stock Exchange Jews, it is certainly too bad that
he should in addition be deprived, on such worthless
testimony as this, of credit for the pluck with which he
faces the shambles.
London Daily News Cape correspondent is now
allowed to say this sort of thing
It is disgusting to turn into any one of the Cape Town
hotels to find yourself surrounded by rich refugees from
Johannesburg, and to hear them cry like children as they
tell you what they will lose if the British do not hurry up
and take the Transvaal before the Boers destroy Johannes-
burg. They actually weep in their plates at dinner, and
half-strangl'e themselves by sobbing as they drink their
whiskey at bed-time. The Mount Nelson, the Queen’s,
and the Grand Hotels are all full of these merchants and
millionaires, faring on the fat of the land, idle, loafing, all
of every day, and discussing what per cent, of their losses
the British Government will pay them when they put in
their claims at the end of the war. Some came here as
clerks, some as laborers in the mines, and some as mer-
chants who brought £lO worth of goods out from Bir-
mingham a dozen years ago. They tell you that they
have left £lOO,OOO or £BO,OOO worth of goods in their shop,
and that altogether £25,000,000 is in danger of destruc-
tion in Johannesburg.
“ Oh, mine Got 1 ” one has been saying to me ; I can d
dell how much I shall lose by dis peezness. I shpeak mit
much feeling, my frent. Bleese excoose me grying. Vot
do you dink ? Did you dink I git back dirty-dree per
shent of vot I lose from the British Government t Oh,
Got! den I lose £OO,OOO. Ain’d it derrible ? ”
They are pulling their long faces all over tin? place and
shedding their tears wherever you meet them. It is
enou'di to make a statue ill to have to hear and see them
and move among them. Why don’t they equip a regiment
of rowh-riders and make up a battalion of volunteers
among themselves ? Why don’t they fight ? The war has
jeopardised their property, and they have a keener interest
in it than any Tommy or any officer now at the front.
How can they see the' cream and flower of English man-
hood rushing down here to spill its precious blood for
them, and never feel a blush of shame or a pang of any
emotion except grief over losses that will still leave man 3
of them rich ?
Really, Gape Town is a wonderful place. It is worth
the journey to see the streets blocked by able young men
and the hotels crowded by rich refugees, while each
ni'dit’s train takes out the fearless gentleinen (officers and
soldiers of our army), who are deliberately risking not
only their lives, but more of worldly advantage than can
ever come to these skulkers, who cling* to the shelter of
Emdand’s guns and weep while they wait for men to die
that they may rush up to-the IJri-lUii treasury with then
claims.


THE WEW POLICY OF
Tijs Life ioSOrasjee Co. of New York
Specifies the amount of Surrender Value at the end of each year, the amount obtainable
on Loan at 5 percent., the amount of paid-up insurance, and the Extended Term of
full insurance.
For further information apply to Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Baker £ Rouse Proprietary Ltd.
Illustrated Catalogues Free.
•M5O Co ins-st., Melbourne.
... THE CELEBRATED ...
PREMO CAMERA
LIGHT, COMPACT, and DURABLE.
THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN
HAND CAMERAS.
375 Geo rge-street, Sydney.
81 Queen-st., Brisbane. 65 Rundt/e-st. , Adelaide.
The Clyde Engineering Co. [td.
MANUFACTURERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF HORIZONTAL AND TRACTION
For WINDING, HAULAGE, &c., from 2-h.p. to 1000-h.p.
■m
mm
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMINQ WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Little Ue.t Riding Hood.”
Lvcßirvi the D’Urbervilles.”
RiK7co and 1110 Ulo^-"
Otera House “Rip Van Winkle.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING AVEEK.
Theatre Royal “Little Christopher Columbus.”
IiIJOU Rickards’ Variety Co.
“ Tess ” still holds the boards at Sydney
Royal, and it is hoped it will do so for a long time
yet, as this scribe looks forward with no special
joy to the barefoot drama that is booked to follow,
less continues to be a nice girl racing about in her
white wedding-dress, but she is still as far as ever
from being Hardy’s Tess. In trying to make her
conventionally more spotless than Tess of the book
Lonmer Stoddard fell between two stools. He
does not permit Tess to go off with Alec a second
time till she is sure that her husband is dead,
which whitewashes her in some respects, but
blackens her in others, inasmuch as, knowing
herself legally free, she lives with a man who
makes no attempt to go through the marriage
ceremony. The book Tess is not at all sure that
Angel is dead, and therefore can salve her soul with
the thought that Alec would have married her if
he could, though he almost certainly wouldn’t.
The blackening of Alec is another fact that calls
for disapprobation, also the London JouKNAL-ese
attitude of Mrs. Alec when he comes home more
than half seas over. When we reflect that Tess is
only enabled to assume that London Journal
attitude because she is wearing a handsome silk
tea-gown that the drunken one gave her, and
that after all he is educating her brother, and
keeping the rest of the family, the weird old
mother included, there is some sense in Alec’s
appeal “to be shmiled on—shometimes.” The
virtue of women who make bargains of this sort,
and then shrink with loathing from their part of
the contract (but calmly keep the other party to
his) is something extraordinary to those who know
not the workings of the female mind. The fact
that Alec does not evidently take to drink till
after his union with Tess, shows that that mis-
guided young woman had joined the ranks of
those concerning whom Solomon remarked, “A
virtuous woman is a crown to her husband,”
whereupon Shakespeare added, “ Unbasy lies the
head that wears a crown.”
** * *
As the pantomime slowly proceeds along
its rather dreary path (at Her Majesty’s, Sydney)
one more and more perceives that it is intended as
a deep satire on something or other—possibly on
both of them. The lay of the mendicant is still
received with applause, likewise coin, and as it is
the only patriotic song in which we don’t hear our
Mother hollering for us, perhaps the coin is jus-
tified in a vague, negative sort of way. The song
is having an excellent effect in one respect, inas-
much as people who formerly couldn’t throw
straight to save their lives now excel in the useful
art through much practising with Dorothy for a
target. Anyway they mostly manage without
landing a half-crown in her eye, as happened at
the beginning of the panto, season. Audiences
are often reported to have been struck by a certain
song, but the absent-minded singer was struck
also.
# * #
“The Power and the Glory” has been
falvanised into some sort of new life at Sydney
jyceum, because Dora De Winton displaces Ida
Gresham in the heroine part (Ida G. in her turn
displacing Roxy Barton, and Roxy flying off the
stage altogether). Also John Saunders tills up the
erstwhile sketchy character of the noble sailor who
does not ask the mermaid into his cabin because
she is inadequately clothed in her tail. It is not
that the persons who took those parts previously
did badly, but because in a play of this sort,
where the glorious and inexpensive imbecility gets
on the very soul, even variations in the said
imbecility are a relief. Mr. Saunders and Miss
Winton are people that it is a joy and a pleasure
to meet, even in imbecile parts. The other
characters behave in the usual manner without
any variations, and continue to inform the villain
that they are going to have him arrested,
(whereupon he shoots them or ties them up, or
something), instead of going off and having him
arrested, without saying anything about it. In
the s : ■ ,e which is mentioned in the bill as taking
place beneath the everlasting sky (the other
scenes evidently occurring in some unknown
region where there isn’t a sky), the writer has a
vague impression that the angel child breaks out in
a different place, but does not care to make any
rash statement to that effect. The contingent
threatened now and then to invade the dialogues,
but was evidently restrained by the waggle of Mar
Goodluck’s crinoline. Why does the humorous
old woman always adopt a crinoline, even when
the rest of the female characters are in up-to-date
blouse and skirt ?
*# * *
In the Decameron-like picture of Caddam
Woods, at Sydney Criterion, Mr. Sullivan sings a
good old song, “Good-bye, Sweetheart, Good-
bye ! ” It is a pretty, fairly well-sung melody,
but the spirit of the age is against saying good-
bye, and the old song wants bringing up to date
by being made to read, “ Come along, Sweetheart,
Come along!” Fanny Powers sings and dances
nicely in her self-possessed manner. Fanny
simply revels in her work, and when the applause
is turned on that small performer becomes quite
intoxicated. Miss Elliot, Miss St. George and
Alf. Lawton sing pleasantly and without effort,
but the unfortunate Will Daly positively writhes
in his agony while he heaves his great voice at the
roof. Mr. Daly is hereby warned that he will
never be a success till he takes lessons in deport-
ment and ceases to give the impression that he
has been impaled. Violet Bishop also draws her
breath in with a wheeze like a broken bel-
lows at the end of each line, and sets one
thinking of lung diseases. Lungs are damp
slimy things, and not pleasant to think
about during Caddarn Woods revels. In the
bell ballet the weird figures in red and white shake
on music as a big water-dog shakes off showers
of water-drops. Harry Rickards looks anxious
and in bodily fear while he dodges the rain of
copper and silver that his perpetration of the
Absent-minded Beggar ” draws from an enthusi-
astic audience. Recently two half-crowns and a
tray-bit banged Henry on the skull, and since then
he imagines, he is facing a heavy fire. The
Beggar ” is an awful composition, anyhow,
and when Rickards sings it he says “for
your credit’s sake, pie, pie, pie ! ” Tod Calloway’s
little rhyme about the fellow who took a sudden
and violent dislike to mixed bathing when he met
his own wife and another fellow coming out, regu-
larly gets that resigned-looking person three
recalls. Raconteur G-. W. Hunter dogmatises
that the old songs are the best, and paralyses any
objectors by inviting them to name a new song
that has lasted as long as the old favorites. The
objectors remain silent. He also tells of a trying
time he had when younger and better-looking,
and had a pig under one arm and a tub under the
other, but it isn’t quite a new narrative. The
Tv ewskys are in their last week, and the male
members are now wearing square-topped black
boots. The ladies still wear red ones, but they
are delightful in any sort of boots, or none at all.
They sing two charming songs, one about “ishski”
and another which seems to be chiefly about
“ gau-oo.” _ The way those five pretty women say
gau-oo ” is worth going a long way to hear.
This scribe deeply regrets that the Newskys are
going away, especially now that Ivan and
.Nicholas have changed their boots, and the ladies
have started to say “gau-oo.”
** * *
Sydney Opera House will again come out
of its dusty retirement on Saturday. A comic
opera co. opens there that night with “Rip Van
Winkle.” The only two names advertised in con-
nection with the proceedings are those of Miss
Maud Hewsen and Howard Vernon, but it is
alleged that the rest of the co. is “talented,” and
if it is half as talented as Vernon things ought
to go all right.
** * «
A little comic relief from the monotony of
Jingo spirit in Melbourne’s passing shows was
last week provided by “The Bold Boy of Glen-
gall,” at the Alexandra. The Bold Boy turned
out to be an amiable, elderly patriot, oppressed
by four dilapidated British troops in various
shades of uniform. This army (led by an evil-
minded beggar) succeeded in capturing the
patriot in the face of a heavy fire of dis-
approval from the gallery, but at 11 p.m. several
Glengall girls arrived with a white flag and a
free pardon. Then the Boy withdrew his neck
from the last noose of the law and shook the dust
of the scaffold from his feet. Meanwhile, the
absurd British army had fired four bullets by mis-
take into the treacherous carcase of a quite youth-
ful informer, who had been waiting for 20 years,
he said, to marry the mother of the dear old Boy.
This left the mother at liberty to remain a widow ;
also it restored the Boy to the arms of his own
colleen, and put Tommy Atkins to confusion.
Taken altogether, the performance of this hasty,
inexpensive drama was somewhat filling A at the
price.
** * *
Alfred Dampier and “ Robbery Under
Arms ” are coming back to the Alexandra next
Saturday. The theatre stands in sore need of a
Dampierian revival, and now is the psychological
moment for a new up-to-date edition of “ Robbery
Under Arms,” concluding with a triumphal exit of
Starlight and his gang, singing “ Soldiers of the
Queen,” at the head of the N.S.W. Bushmen
Corps.
** * *
The last nights of “Little Christopher”
have set in at the Melbourne Royal, and “The
New Barmaid ” is in active preparation for Satur-
day (3rd February), which reminds one that
Pepita, the girl beloved by O’Hooligan in the
present [tragedy, was a barmaid previous to the
annexation of her father’s pub by the broker’s
man. Don Juan, the soldier who takes himself so
seriously, questions his Pepita as to whether she
is giving any “encouragement” to the infatuated
O’Hooligan.. And the discreet young woman says
“ No, dear ; only just sufficient to keep him drink-
ing at the bar all day.” What a warning for
many of us !
** * *
Just by way of filling-up space, The
Bulletin may as well repeat its previous men-
tion of the fact that concerts, open-air and other-
wise, are happening freely in Melbourne since
Xmas. They serve as an outlet for the sort of
“patriotism” that insists upon joining in a
chorus. Also, they are very suitable to people of
opposite sexes who wish to whisper airy nothings
amid the darkness whilst a perfervid Italian
gentleman warbles, “ There’s something in the
English after all.” Up to now, there has been no
news of Napoleon Boffard singing “ The Death of
Nelson,” but, if the war-fever doesn’t soon abate,
Napoleon will probably have to scorn the foreign
yoke in a decidedly French accent.
The Newsky Family, from Europe and
Sydney, will give new weight to the Bijou show
next Saturday. There are eight Newskys, conse-
quently they will more than make up for the loss
of the three massive Macarte Sisters, and Mel-
bourne will be glad to get them. It is a long time
since the Rickards show was blessed with a I amily
of any description. And it has been running
short of Brothers lately, for some unaccouutable
reason.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The war has made money dear in England, and
it is difficult to float loans. This is awkward for these
provinces, which are all spending borrowed money every
day of their lives, and whose booms practically ail arise
out of borrowed money, and which have a cold prospect
ahead of them if the good old loan leaves off for a year or
so. The S.A. Treasurer is taking unusual measures to
climb over the difficulty. He offers, first of all, 3 per
cent, stock locally at £96 for every £lOO, interest to be
free of income-tax. This is wholly commendable, for
when S.A. 3 per cents are only worth £95 in London,
it is absurd to expect them to be worth par in Australia,
and even at £96 the S.A. Treasurer expects the Aus-
tralian investor to be content with less interest than
the British one gets. And, as Australia pays inte-
rest to the British investor free of income-tax,
there is nothing wildly absurd about doing the same with
the Australian one. But the S.A. man’s other idea is
distinctly unusual. He offers to accept fixed deposits
from the public for six months at 21 per cent, per annum,
and 12 months at 3 per cent, per annum. Loans that may
have to be repaid in six or 12 months are awkward things
for a hard-up Government to deal with ; but things are
bad in S.A. just now, and a wild, unconsidered rush of
war expenses hasn’t made them any better, and the
Treasurer has already been floating short loans with
banks and private firms, which loans have to be repaid,
and money could hardly be borrowed in England under
4 per cent, just now, and the loan policy and the war
policy have both come home to roost together. An issue
of State legal tender notes would be the "boldest way, and
probably the best way, to get over the difficulty, but the
courage to get out of the old groove is apparently lacking.
* * *
P. Fox : Don’t care much for any of the invest-
ments on your list. They all yield a large return on the
money invested and they are all the kind of trading
enterprises which might prosper for many years, or might
go down very suddenly. Would sooner take an invest-
ment which yields less immediate return with greater
safety—say the reconstructed deposit receipts of the
English, Scottish and Australian Bank —the 3 per cent.
Inscribed Stock.
* • • *
The Bank of Victoria’s half-yearly report, to 31st
December, 1899, is the best it has issued for five long
years. The profits (£27,906) compare with previous
returns as follows :
June, 1894 ..£29,921 June, 1897 ..£17,877
December, 1894 ?. 21,087 December, 1897 .. 22,729
June, 1895 .. 19,863 June, 1898 .. 24,380
December, 1595 .. 20,631 December, 1898 .. 27,800
June, 1896 .. 15,068 June, 1899 .. 27,637
December, 1596 .. 17,928 December, 1899 .. 27,906
These profits are equivalent to £3 12s. Id. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ money (capital £1,477,425,
and reserve-fund £70,000). Including £37,249 brought
forward, the Bank of Victoria has £65,155 available for
division. The usual dividend at 5 per cent, per annum on
preference shares absorbs £10,419 ; £30,000 is added to
reserve-fund, making it £lOO,OOO ; and £24,736 is carried
forward. The Victoria’s reserve all went in ’93, so the
present one of £lOO,OOO has been wholly built up since
then out of profits. The old reserve was only £250,000 at
the best ; the Victoria in the glorious days of its 10 and 12
per cent, dividends was never a really strong institution
for its size. It started in 1852 and by i 867 its reserve fund
reached £lOO,OOO. In 1878 it was £200,000, and in that
bad year £115,000 was written off to cover losses, and the
reserve was left at £85,000. Then in 15 vears it slowly
climbed up again to £2so,ooo—after which it all disap-
peared. In the last six years the Bank of Victoria has
been making better progress at building up its reserve
than it did even in the best of the good old days. But
this time at least half-a-million should be aimed'at—and
a million would be still better. Probably the board
isn't wholly responsible for the good work it is doing.
After paying the unavoidable preference div. the remain-
ing profit (£17,487) would only allow of 3 per cent,
being paid to ordinary shareholders, and that mean little
amount being more a bad advt. than anything else the
money goes to reserve instead. In the first half-year
after the reconstruction the profits ran to 5 per cent, for
all shareholders, and very little over, so the Victoria paid
5 per cent, to them all, and let all ideas of seriously build-
ing up the institution slide for the time. If the profits
had continued to allow of a 5 per cent. div. to both
classes of shareholders it might have still been paid, and
the building-up process might have kept on sliding.
These are mere speculations, however, and so
far as facts go the Bank of Victoria looks healthy and pro-
gressive. Note circulation has increased £26,000 during
the half-year. A decrease in deposits is solely owing to
the repayment of the 4J per cent, reconstructed moneys
of ’93, the last of which will be wiped off and the recon-
struction terminated next March. Cash and Government
securities (£1,754,765) are nearly £200,000 more than they
were six months ago, and equal to nearly 32 per cent, of
all public liabilities. This is a very good showing, and if
the Bank of Victoria only continues for a few years longer
too poor to pay any dividend to its ordinary shareholders
it may grow very rich.
* * * ♦
The fifth balance-sheet of B the Queensland
National Bank since it was taken under State supervision
is to hand, covering the half-year to 31st December, 1899.
Gross profits (£27,341) are by far the best to date. Of this
amount £15,341 is written off towards providing for old
losses which even the tremendous writing-down of 1897
didn't fully cover ; £3300 goes towards paying off Govern-
ment reconstructed deposits; £6900 towards repaying
private ditto; and £3OOO to reserve fund, making it
£12,000. The gross profits since the last reconstruction
have been :
December, 1897 £16,635 June, 1599 .. .. £23,579
June, 1898.. .. 17,795 December, 1599 27,341
December, IS9S 21,255
And these profits have been disposed of as follows: —
Repaid to
Written Repaid to Private Reserve
oil. Govern- Deposi- Fund,
ment. tors.
Dec.,'97 .. £8,635 £2,000 £4,000 £2,000
June,'9B.. 8,795 2,250 4,500 2,250
Dec.,’9B .. 12,255 2,250 4,500 2,250
June,’99.. 13,879 2,500 5,000 2,500
Dec.,’99 .. 15,341 3,000 6,000 3,000
£58,905 £12,000 £24,000 £12,000
The nominal net profit of £12,000 is equal to about
£5 13s. lOd. per cent, per annum on the shareholders’
funds, which would be a splendid return if things were
not quite so nominal.
Subject to various reservations, explanations
and footnotes, the situation of the Q.N.B. is something
like this :
Liabilities.
Capital .. .. 412,708
Reserve Fund .. 12,000
Notes and Rills .. 701,591
Government De-
posits .. .. 2,221,213
Private Deposits.. 5,138,066
£8,485,878
Assets.
Cash, advances,
and other assets
at nominal
value (say) .. 7,024,878
Deficit (about) .. 1,461,000
£8,485,878
This is a rough estimate of the situation with reserva-
tions. The Queensland National’s balance-sheet hardly
even pretends to give a clear statement of its affairs, or
anything remotely approaching thereto. In 1597 some-
thing like £1,039,000 of private deposits were written off
from among the liabilities, and losses to that amount were
also written off the nominal assets. Nobody looking at
the balance-sheet would dream that this huge sum (less
£24,000 since paid off out of profits) though it doesn’t
appear among the liabilities anywhere, is still a liability—
that it is, for all practical purposes, as much a liability
after being written off as before—the oidy difference
being that it is now a charge on profits instead of on
capital. Also, the liability, “ Deferred payments to
Government, payable by 25 per cent, of the profits with-
out interest half-yearly, £436,531,” isn’t supposed to have
any assets against it—the so-called assets against it are
understood to be merely bad debts not written off.
In addition to these two items, there is another
deficit about which there is even less information. A
large item among the assets reads “debts in suspense
pending realisation of securities, £680,025.” llow much
of this is bad it is impossible to guess, but it is presum-
ably to provide for losses on this account that £58,905 of
the profits have gone in the last 21 years. And as this
account has only diminished by £62,810 since 1897 the
realisation of these securities appeal's a very slow process.
* * » *
For many of the ordinary purposes of a balance-
sheet, indeed, the Queensland National’s document is
quite useless. It certainly shows the amount of profit,
and it shows that more than half that profit is written
off to provide for losses (amount not specified, so that the
question of how long it will be before they are all written
off is a mystery.) Then a quarter of the remainder
(£3000) goes towards wiping off a liability of £436,831 to
the Government—which isn’t much taken away from a
great deal. Another £6OOO goes towards wiping off some-
thing that the balance-sheet doesn’t in the least explain,
but which is really the £1,090,000 or so due to private
depositors that is not put among the bank's debts though it
is a debt. And the rest goes to reserve—which is at least
definite and cheering. But this sort of balance-sheet is a
mockery and a shrieking joke all the same.
If it wasn’t for the fearful deficit to be wiped off
the Queensland National’s balance-sheet would be rather
gratifying. The earnings are good if they were available
for dividend purposes, and they are rapidly increasing.
Private deposits are growing larger, which shows that some
ghost or semblance of confidence in the old Q.N.B. is com-
ing back again—and, as a matter of fact, it is as safe for new
depositors as any other bank. Also the institution has
£1,785,411 in cash and liquid securities. In fact, if there
was nothing wrong save what actually appears in the
balance-sheet things wouldn’t be so very bad after all
with the Q.N.B. Things not in the balance-sheet are the
trouble.
* * » »
The City Bank of Sydney publishes a balance-
sheet which presents such a close resemblance to many
previous ones that it might be almost any one of its last
six predecessors over again. Profits for the half-year to
31st December, 1899, are £8212, and the usual 4 per cent,
per annum dividend absorbs £BOOO. The other £212,
added to £9099 brought forward, leaves £9311 at credit of
profit and loss. The figures compare with some previous
returns as follows :
J une, 1896 .. .. £BlOB June, 1598.. .. £5273
December, 1896 .. 8071 December, 1898 .. 8053
June, 1897 .. .. 8048 June, 1899.. .. 8069
December, 1597 .. 8395 December, 1899 .. 8212
This list covers the period of the 4 per cent, dividend, and
during these four years the amount visibly added to the
bank’s funds has been just £1229. The only feasible
explanation of the profit’s remarkable similarity to itself
every time is that the City Bank is still secretly reserving
part of its earnings (amount unknown) in order to writeoff
in an indefinite number of years depreciation of assets
(amount also unknown). This was the explanation given
by the management some time ago, and doubtless it still
holds good. The B.N.Z. is doing the same thing in a
slightly different fashion by its annual payment to the
Assets Realisation Board, and the Commercial of Aus-
tralia by its payments to the Assets Trust Co. The
Queensland National does likewise by applying a portion
of its profits every half-year to the writing-down of assets
—only in these cases the amount written off is known,
though as the amount of losses still to be provided for is
unknown this partial publicity makes little difference.
Also it is possible to recognise in the accounts of one or
two other Australian banks the ghostly hand of Deprecia-
tion, amount unknown. This is a great and doleful
cleaning-up period in Australian financial circles.
The profits of the City Bank of Sydney are at
the rate of £3 ss. Bd. per cent, per annum on the share-
holders’funds (capital £400,000; reserve £100,244) which
is nothing very remarkable either in a favorable or
an unfavorable sense. During the half-year note circula-
tion has increased hy nearly £7OOO. Deposits have
increased by about £65,000. Cash (£329,263) has increased
by over £55,000, and in addition the City Bank now holds
£25,000 of State securities. Tills is a thing it hasn’t done
within the writer’s memory, and its policy in thus
beginning to build up a second line of defence can’t be too
strongly commended. A bank can’t hold enough reserve
of actual cash to make itself secure without seriously re-
ducing its earnings, and if it keeps up the earnings by in-
vesting almost everything in “ advances, etc.,” the results
are bad when a rush like that of ’93 comes along. State
securities are profit-earning, yet almost as liquid as cash.
The liquid resources of the City Bank, all told, are now
equal to nearly 31 per cent, of all liabilities to the public.


The Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South
Melbourne, have delivered the first set of electrically-
driven triple double acting plunger pumps for the Junc-
tion Peep heads. These pumps are a fine sample of
Colonial manufacturing skill. The total weight of the
pump is close on 100 tons. All the gear wheels, which
are Bft. diam. and 12in. face, have machine-cut teeth.
The Otis Co. had to design and build a special machine to
cut these wheels. Two other sets of these pumps have to
be built to go down the shafts on adjoining mines. They
will all be operated from a central power plant, now
nearing completion.*
* • • •
“The Insurance News, Loudon, writes:—
“ The whole position of the Colonial Mutual, as revealed
by the latest report, is calculated to give the utmost satis-
faction and confidence to the members."*
* * • •
Gilfillan and M'Creery, Mining and Metallurgi-
cal Engineers, 434 Collins-street, Melbourne, report on
mines, attend to the flotation of approved properties on
the London market. Complete battery plant and Willey
table for bulk tests. Plans and specifications for all
classes of mining plant.*
♦ m m w
The United Brothers gold mine, situated at
Glen Wills, about 25 miles from Omeo, Gippsland, has an
improved appearance, and even better things are looked
for as deeper ground is reached. The mine possesses an
up-to-date mill. The stone is conveyed automatically to
hopper, thence to Gate’s Crusher and on to 20 head of
stamps of the A.T.B. pattern. A small but complete
plant of Luhrig Vanners and Classifiers treats the battery
tailings and continues to win a large percentage of valu-
able concentrates, which are a satisfactory source of
revenue to the co. This Luhrig plant was supplied and
erected under contract by Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere,
606 Little Collins-street, Melbourne.*
* • * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor llorsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
* * » «
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
• * » *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for ail sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
• * » •
That famous Victorian mine, the South German
Reef, on a paid-up capital of only £12,000, has paid in
divs. 279,000.
* * * #
Some values from last report of Mount Garnet
Freehold :—North drive—No. 2 winze extended total
lift.; value 18 per cent, copper. 30.300 z. silver. No. 4
winze down 44ft. No. 6 winze down 57ift. Both winzes
in garnet rock. No. 2 N. drive in 27ft.; value 7.4 per
cent, copper, 115.300 z. silver. No. 3 rise up 24ft.; value
7.5 per cent., copper, 3.300 z. silver. No. 4 shaft—S. drive
in 40ft.; value 4.6 per cent, copper, 11.750 z. silver. E.
drive in 16ft.; value 9 per cent, copper, 3.750 z. silver. No.
3 shaft, 100 ft. level —E. drive 14ft.; oxidised ore value
for 12ft., 5.2 per cent, copper, loz. silver. Open cut
opening up good body ore.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. lIOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
q Smoke the Latest g>
iSP VANDYCK
CIGARS (NOT CHEROOTS.)
SOLD IN PACKETS OF 8 FOR I/-
&
SLIMES!!
ONLY
Successful
Treatment
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co.. London.
All particulars on application to
Hy. Markwald
11 Pitt Street,
Sydney
178 William Street, Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
“Brilliant and St. George G.M. Co., Charters
Towers, Oct. 4, 1899. About 12 months ago we had our
forges fitted with your Billett’s Patent Tuyeres, and they
have been working continuously ever since and have given
every satisfaction and effected a great saving in fuel and
labor, the fires being always clean. Another great advan-
tage they possess is that they work without water, conse-
quently there is no danger of them burning through
neglect. 1 have great confidence in recommending thOm
in every instance where forges are used. (Signed) Jas.
Oarroll, Mine Manager.” Write to W. Dewhirst, Bro gh-
ton Lane, Sydney, for particulars and list of agents.*
And the balance-sheet, as usual, puts all the assets into
four lines, and gives as little information about them as it
possibly can while still keeping up the pretence of being a
balance-sheet. The Svdney Stock Exchange quotations
still persistently regard theOity Bank’sasthe worst among
the dividend-paying bank stocks on the published list.
Last Tuesday its new issue shares, £8 paid up. were offer-
ing at £3 15s. Nothing seems to lift the Stock Exchauge
opinion of the City Bank very much.
• • • *
The Assets Realisation and General Finance
Co. (Sydney) continues to do worse than might be ex-
pected. The net earnings for the year 1599 were £787,
and as expenses of management were £1136, the earnings
didn’t cover outgoings under this head alone by £409.
Also, interest on overdrafts, deposits, etc., was £661, and
with land-tax added, the total outgoings were £lBl7 —or
£lO9O more than revenue. A concern whose earnings are
only about two-fifths of its revenue is in a bad way. In
addition, £6949 was lost through sale of assets below book
value —the assets sold, it appears, didn’t realise nearly
half their paper value—so things are bad in many ways.
During the year something over £7400 was collected in
calls, and losses swallowed it aIL The balance-sheet now
stands something as follows :
Liabilities.
Capital paid-up .. 126,249
Liabilities to the
publio .. .. 34,578
£160,527
Advances, &c. .. 30,563
Properties (book
value only) .. 52,423
Sundries .. .. 225
Losses .. .• 77,616
£160,827
If the amount realised on properties already sold is any
criterion, the item of £52,423 above-mentioned should pro-
duce something over £20,000, and the Assets Realisation
Co. should pay all outside liabilities easily and get out
with the loss of all, or nearly all, its own capital. The
spectacle of a co. formed to realise other people’s assets
realising its own in this very hopeless fashion has some
elements of pathos in it. The co. is 12 years old ; for five
years of that time it realised for other people, and the
other seven have been spent in trying to realise itself. The
best points about the case are that the loss on the actual
working of the co. is diminishing, and liabilities to the
public are being steadily reduced.
» * * «
The Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney) shows a
still further improvement in its accounts for 1800, the
year’s profit being £3723. The following list of profits
shows how things have gone during the last nine years:—
1801 .. £1716 1806 .. £2067
1802 .. 2035 1807 .. 3005
1803 .. 2414 1808 .. 322 C
1804 .. 2702 1899 .. 3723
1805 .. 2571
With the exception of the backsliding in 1895 every year
has shown a large improvement on its immediate prede-
cessor. A balance of £562 brought forward from last year
makes £4285 available for division. A dividend at the rate
of 7 per cent, per annum on the paid-up capital of £25,000
absorbs £1750. An addition of £2OOO is made to reserve-
fund, raising it to £9OOO, and a balance of £535' is carried
forward. The l’erpetual paid five dividends (in
1893-4-5-6-7) of 6 per cent, each, and this is its
second 7 per cent. div. The only objectionable feature
about the balance-sheet is that it doesn’t specify separ-
ately amounts earned in the ordinary course of business,
and - the income derived from the investment of the co.’s
own funds—which it certainly should do. The Perpetual
Trustee Co. has really £16,094 of reserves—the ordinary
reserve fund of £9OOO and a “ reserved commission
account” of £7094, which is very good for a concern of
only 13 years’ standing. It has also, as security for the
mite of the widow and the grass-widow and the irre-
sponsible toothless infant entrusted to its care, £25,000
paid-up capital, making its visible funds £41,094, and
£975,000 of callable capital. Just here, and especially in
view of the fact that within the last year a most respect-
able and irreproachable Christian solicitor and private
trustee hasgonemissing from Geelong with adisappearanee
said to amount to some £250,000, and a still more respect-
able ditto has made a still larger disappearance in Glasgow,
and others have disappeared all over the earth for various
amounts, The Bulletin desires to say once more that the
man who leaves his widow’s or children’s money with any
private trustee, even if he were the 12 apostles rolled into
one, while a trustee co. like this, and like many others in
Australia, is on deck, is a ghoul. A good character is a
great thing, but a million capital and a good reserve-fund
are worth 10 of it any day.
* * * *
The Ballarat Trustees!, Executors and Agency
Co. of Ballarat (Victoria) shows a profit of £lO4l for the
half-year ended 31st December, 1899, which is a slight
falling-away as compared with the £lO7l of previous half-
year. A dividend at 7 per cent, per annum absorbed
£525. Another £5OO was written off goodwill account,
and the remaining £46 raises the accumulated profit
balance to £385. The £5OO written off goodwill finally
removes a very wearisome and objectionable dead horse
off the premises. For many years the Ballarat Trustees,
Executors and Agency Co. squared its accounts by insert-
ing a bogus or paper 11 goodwill ” asset, which either
represented the original purchase-money of a ready-made
business, or the cost of founding a new one —the writer
isn’t certain which. At 30th June, 1893, the goodwill stood
at £4OOO, and as the half-year’s profits were only £392, and
the goodwill of a business which yielded less than £B5O a
year looked none too good value for £4OOO, the co.’s affairs
could hardly be said to wear a healthy aspect. Now the
profits, as already mentioned, are £lO4l, equal to nearly
14 per cent, per annum on capital, and the goodwill item
has been wholly written off, so for the first time the
visible assets are equal to liabilities, with £385 over. And
if the profits keep up, and the board is wise enough not
to raise the dividend beyond the present very handsome
7 per cent, for 20 years or so, the co. should he able to
accumulate a very handsome reserve fund—a thing which
is most essential and which, as yet, is wholly wanting.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Mont de Piete (Sydney) has done
rather better for the half-year ended 31st December,
1899, than for the preceding six months, though in one
way and another it has been a lean period. Net earnings
(£2891) compare with some previous profits thus
June, 1894 .. .. £4314 June, 1897 .. .. £4225
December, 1894 .. 4470 December, 1897 .. 4297
June, 1895.. .. 4239 June, 1898.. .. 4189
December, 1895 .. 4766 December, 1898 .. 3589
June, 1896.. .. 4699 June, 1899.. .. 2300
December, 1896 .. 4284 December, 1899 .. 2801
The reduced dividend at the rate of 7£ per cent, per
annum absorbs £2778, and the little balance of £23, added
to £277 brought forward, leaves £3OO at credit of
profit and loss. But during the half-year another
£7335 has been written off (£5600 from reserve and
£1735 from contingency - fund) to provide for more
losses, so the total reserves are now only £8598.
At December, 1897, they were £20,752, so the
falling-away has been very considerable. Also, the long
course of 10 per cent, dividends has been seriously
interrupted. The improvement in earnings, however,
looks as if the leanest of the lean years had gone by.
The Mont de Pi (it 6 has at least earned its 7£ per cent,
dividend this time with a little ovpr—which wasn’t the
case at 30th June last.
* * * *
The great S.A. firm of John Dunn and Co. has
ceased to exist. At one time it was the boss milling firm
of the province, and perhaps of Australia. Its stability was
such that the sun-dried cocky of the North commonly
called £l-notes “ John Dunns.” Old Dunn built it up
from a small business to one of gigantic dimensions, and
for nearly 60 years it ran a prosperous career. At John’s
death the business seemed to be at the full tide of success,
but bad seasons and other things soon told on it. On the
17th inst the mills were unsuccessfully offered by auction.
At the end of January General-manager Blake-
more stepped out, and A. E. Mannheim, of the Illawarra
works, stepped in at the Howell’s Consolidated group of
mines, Gundagai district. It is doubtful whether any-
where in N.S.YV. more economical work has been done
lately than here. At the Prince of Wales mine substantial
profit has been made out of Gdvvt. stone broken from a
treacherous lode in difficult country. In those American
mines where expenses have been brought very low the
itemisation of costs is regarded as a first essential ; the
manager must know what everything costs. The success
of general-manager Stewart, late of B.H. and now of
Chiilagoe, was built mainly on this. The Howell’s mines
follow the same plan ; and at the Prince of Wales they
show for the year: miningcosts 6s. 9.5 d., treatment 3s. 10d.,
management, &c., 2s. 3;fd. ; total, 12s. llid.—all per ton
of ore. For the last two months the average has been
10s. 4jd., equal to 2.jdwt. The quantity treated was
31,183 tons for 93730 z. At this mine a shoe-test interest-
ing to battery men has been made lately, the results from
ordinary shoes and ohrome-steel shoes being compared.
The general manager reports that the use of the chrome-
steel made a saving of 57 per cent, on the cost of re-
newals.
• • * •
Mt. Drysdale, N.S.W. —One paper says the
80 tons of ore sent to Dapto returned 31oz. to the ton ;
another, that 125 tons, estimated to be worth 250 z. to the
ton, had been broken, ready to be sent away as soon as the
directors had decided place of treatment. No official
return from the Board. Interesting to know why the
management has been so suddenly changed, and whether
the rich patch, pipe, pocket, or whatever it is, was struck
before or after the last 3d. call was made. Shares (stand-
ing at about £1) would have been more than double but
for the woeful experience many people had of this mine
some years ago. Small chute of ore said to have been
proved right up to the Eldorado boundary, and a big
advance in the latter shares in consequence. No informa-
tion as to how the chute is dipping.
» * * *
B.TT. Prop, issues its most eloquent report
quarterly; shareholders get it by calling at the co.’s
bank, where they are asked how they will take it. The
co.’s that don’t issue this kind of report put a high value
on the directors’ half-yearly statements and balance-
sheets; the B.lf. Prop, doesn't. And so the document,
which at one time was a big volume, has now dwindled to
a very small pamphlet, chiefly remarkable for the informa-
tion that is not in it. The gross profit for the half-year
(the half-year ended Nov. 30) was £144,492 ; from this take
£34,130 for depreciation, and a net profit of £110,362
remains. As £90,000 has been paid in divs., the balance
forward is nearly £14,000 greater than it was six months
ago. That £14,000 is equal to about lGs. per ton of the
lead produced ; and as lead has been sold during 1899 for
as much as £l7 10s., but is now £l6 2s. 6d., with a down-
ward tendency, the chances of increasing the div. do not
seem good, in fact, had it not been for the recent spurt
in the lead market, it looks as though the co. would once
more not have earned the div. paid.
The worst feature disclosed by the B.H. Prop,
report is that, notwithstanding the great increase in ore-
reducing plant (no less than £63,000 was spent in this
direction last six months) the quantity of material which
it has been found possible to put through the furnaces has
further diminished. A few half-years ago 260,000 tons
was smelted ; now, with greater smelting capacity, the
ore is so refractory (in spite of the preliminary concentra-
tion) that 95,154 tons was the full quantity smelted last
half-year. And the figures in this connection show that
the state of things has been gradually growing worse ; yet
it certainly cannot go on that way—at the same rate, any-
how. One means which has just been adopted to check the
descent is the briquetting of the fine ore, including concen-
trates. Thrown into the furnaces in their original powder
state they smother the fires ; formed into blocks, about 4in.
cubes, they allow of a draught. This process, which has
been tried’in America, is new to Australia. One briquet-
ting plant has been in operation six months, two others
are in port from America. Of course, all this does not
mean simply that, so much less ore being treated, the
co’s profits are correspondingly reduced ; because the ex-
penses are almost as great for the small quantity as they
were for the large, and in some respects greater. Still, if
so much less ore is handled, so much more remains in the
mine to be handled —and, perhaps, in view of the ex-
tremely imperfect knowledge of the metallurgy of these
ores so far, that is a very good thing.
Two or three items in Broken Hill mining co’s
reports are often puzzling. The B.H. Prop, report sup-
plies an illustration. Gross profit was £144.492. Deduct
£34,130 for depreciation, and a net profit of £110,362
is left. Then: —“The sum of £62,935 has been
expended in construction, and two dividends,
each of Is. per share, or £96,000 in all, have
been distributed. So apparently the co. has got
behind-hand many thousands. But “construction” is
not charged against this half-year. The term “ deprecia-
tion” hardly expresses what that item Is. It is really for
the most part an instalment of purchase money. Every
half-year the co. charges itself with about 10 per cent, of
.the book-value of its machinery, plant, buildings, &c. ;
so the payments, so far as the production account is con-
cerned, are spread over about five years. Thu? in respect
of the £63,000 spent in construction last half-year each
of the ensuing 10 half-years will he charged with approxi-
mately £6300, which will be debited to “depreciation.”
Another point is as to the value of the ore treated.
Where the co. smelts this value is usually given, not as of
the value of the original ore—the ore as it comes from
the mine—but as of the mean value of crude ore and
concentrates ; that is, of the stuff as it is tipped into the
furnaces.
* * * *
The summing-up of an independent mining-man
who has been round the Westralian fields lately, and who
ought to know First, as to Southern Cross. It has
been under a cloud lately ; the local funny men put it
down to Deeming. But it is in a better way than passers-
through-by-lrain think: they don’t see the township,
which is a mile and more away. Don’t think this group
of mines was ever on a better basis. Fraser’s called up
£9OOO, paid that back, and £27,000 besides. That was a
good bit ago. Now Fraser’s and Fraser’s South are amal-
gamated ;at least, Fraser’s South is absorbed. The old
reef was batteried ; but the gold is too fine for that. The
new reef, from which no returns have yet been made, is
different. It is rich—2oz.—and you ought to hear about
it presently. Lee Steere, of Perth, owns most of it.
Fraser’s S. Extended and Hope’s Hill are quite English ;
latter has just put up as good a plant as there is in W.A. ;
they reckon (and shouldn’t be far out) to make a do on
sdwt. South are some reefs ; and there used to be at
least one battery. Beefs are small, country disturbed,
and plants gone.
“ Coolgardio is on the up-grade. Didn’t go much
outside ; inside the best-known mines are patchy. You
can't safely dabble in those shares unless you live handy.
Boulder stocks are still too high. It has been the most
scientific bit of booming 1 know of. We down here have
a lot to learn yet in the art of company-manipulating.
Best of the batch—for investment, 1 mean—is Persever-
ance. It is opened up well—has years of work ahead ;
ami work means ilivs. Several others more talked of have
done little advance work. It’s hard to make the people
understand that a mine isn’t any the better because a lot
of stuff has been taken out of It. The mine with a lot in
it is much better. That is the difference between, say,
the Great Boulder and the Perseverance. The former has
done little prospecting, except by drill; and that (I’m an
old-fashioned sort) isn't satisfactory. And then the
management of the Boulder (1 don’t mean mine manage-
ment)—but it's safer to pass on to Menzies. But, first,
yes, even Perseverance is too high-priced.
“ Menzies has some rich, smallish reefs. Lady
Sherry is, it seems, the favorite outside. I shouldn’t put
’em that way. Lady Shenton and Q. Menzies ought to
come first. Separation is much talked of. I think the
Forrests will counter with a railway to Esperance ; and
then the agitation may drop. Albany wants to
the Separation movement. But the fields are not t g
any Albany.”
* * • *
Lake View Consols. —Lost, stolen, or strayed,
the manager, H. C. Callahan. Everybody is asking
“ Where is he?” He was to have left ’Frisco nearly two
months ago. Everybody made sure he would have been
here on the last boat; now there is not much chance or
his being on the next. His brother, O. Callahan, who
took his place as manager in his absence, was suddenly
“ fired ” about six weeks ago. Of this the directors say,
“ For reasons which we considered imperative, we nave
removed the temporary manager of the mine, and ha\ e
aAanged with the Board of the Ivanhoe for their manager,
Mr. Hewitson, to undertake the management for the tune
being.” Stated in the Auous a few' days ago that >v. J.
Collins, formerly of the Wentworth mines, had arrived from
London to take up an important position in the manage-
ment of the Lake View Consols. If this is correct no wonder
Callahan can’t be found, for about a year ago he tired
Collins off the Lake View' Mine and threatened his Board
with resignation if he w'as allowed to come near it again.
Whispered that Callahan got off the boat in disgust at
Honolulu and has since returned to America.
• * • *
Some remarkable changes which have taken
place in Lake View Consols hold the London and
Australian financial and other newspapers up to ridicule
and contempt. When the collapse started two months
ago it was declared in London to be all on account of
a “ Bear raid,” and newspapers in London and Australia,
almost without exception, urged shareholders to hold on
to their scrip. Others were advised to average when they
were £l6 and £l7. The directors issued a circular,
cautioning shareholders against parting, and the great
and mighty Whittaker Wright also issued a circular inti-
mating that, as soon as the sulphide plant was completed,
it would deal with 500 tons a day, giving from 20 to 25,000
ozs. a month from this source alone —this quite apart
from the rich telluride chutes; while 12,0000 z. a
month would enable a £2 dividend a year to be
paid. Finding that the Associated Mines had
fallen in the slump, he came to its salvation
with the “yabber” that he was prepared to give share-
holders £1 a share per annum for a lease of the mines.
He threw out another sop by saying that negotiations had
started for the amalgamation of the leading Kalgoorlie
mines, which, if completed, would be carried out by one
of the strongest banking houses in London, and on the
terms on which it was proposed to take in the Lake ' lew
Consols the shares would be worth £25 each. Also he
said, “ Long after the bears of the present raid
have passed to the calorific bourne reserved for the
ursine fraternity, the Lake View Mine will still re-
main the greatest in the world.” In the face of all
these things the shares have continued to fall, and are
now standing at about £l2. Some boomsters and dupes
in London and elsewhere have had the pleasure of losing
£lO a share. People who bought in at £l6 to average
those they bought at £25 don’t feel like averaging any
more. The Sabbath tipster and the Sydney evening-
paper mining weaklings, who advised the public to wade
in and buy into a mine that was producing over a ton ot
gold a month, are now as silent as the grave, raith now
centres in the new manager, although nobody knows
who he is. That asinine authority, “ Moses Moss,
of London Truth, says that Mr. Hewitson “is a thor-
oughly reliable and trustworthy man,” but the writer
fancies he has heard something like this about the other
fellows. It will also be interesting now to read the en-
comiums about to be passed on Mr. W. J. Collins and com-
pare them with what was said of him some years ago—
that is, if he is really going to take up the management
of the Lake View. “M.M.”also says that an investiga-
tion is going to take place, and that there is reason to be-
lieve that an extraordinary conspiracy will be exposed.
It is all on account of the tremendous fall in the gold
output. And now' the trouble is over, and the “ bulls
have been caught, and the “ bears ” are on top, and seven
members of the London Stock Exchange have gone to the
wall, and hundreds of people w'ho believed the newspapers
have been ruined, comes the wired statement to the S. M.
Herald from Kalgoorlie : “It is generally recognised
that the monthly output of the leading Kalgoorlie mines
will show a substantial decrease, and that in each case
the reason for the reduced outputs may be attributed to
the wholesale removal from the underground workings of
the respective properties of the cream of the rich ore.
Several months must elapse before yields in keeping with
the resources of these mines can be secured.” Of course,
we are told to expect great things in the future.
» * • •
Central and West Boulder, Hannan’s, a co. with
a well-situated six-acre block in the centre of the Asso-
ciated leases, produced a lot of gold, never paid adiv.,
and has now arranged with the Associated Mines to work
a narrow strip of land on the basis of 40 per cent,
royalty on net profits. The co. has also a 12-acre block,
known as the West Boulder, on which little has been done
and less found.
* • * *
Horatio Bottomley, champion London juggler,
told his juggins—the London public—he had decided to
give up a little of the amusement he derives from horse-
racing till his companies had proved successful, and the
gathering of his dupes cheered the announcement.
According to promise his racehorses were sold, but it is
somewhat remarkable that the same week a judgment for
£10,876 with costs was given against him. Whether the
horses realised the amount is not stated, but a public
who can be led by the nose to imagine that Ilottomley’s
sale of horses will add one pennyweight to the ton of ore
from his “Cat” mines has gone far beyond any possible
redemption.
* * * *
Associated Mines (Westralia) : The meeting in
London disclosed that while this group has given a return
in cash and bonus shares equal to £634,825, something like
£300,000 has been spent in machinery. The chairman,
without wishing to he sanguine, prophesied aminimum divi-
dend of £2 per share per annum. Poor old J udd, ex-chair-
man, wanted to say something of no importanec, and said
it amidst groans and cheers. J udd was re-elected director,
J. P. Doolette was rejected, but got in by a side wind.
Nasty questions were asked about the £48,000 advances
to other companies, and one man wanted to know how
much Bottomley had of it, whereupon B. declared that he
had had none, and offered £40,000 for the asset. The
company has had more satisfactory meetings than this.
* * * *
Westralian directorates are now realising some
of their follies respecting sulphide treatment. Very early
they were advised to erect at joint cost a simple experi-
mental plant and proceed on results. Instead, each show
has its own mannikin metallurgist; and, as most of them
never before saw sulphide ore roasted, money has been
w'asted like water. One trouble with Kalgoorlie sulphide
plants is that in actual work they have never reached
estimated treatment capacity. Ore requires slow roasting
and occupies unanticipated time in giving off sulphur
telluride contents ; thus one mine now finds that to per-
form work required the entire surface of the lease must be
covered with plant. The vertical furnace seems to be the
furnace of the future.
* * * •
The ways of the London rigger. Boulder
Bonanzas were boomed by all possible expedients to over
£2 per share, and yet—have they even a decent pile of
road-metal on the dump ?
• * * *
Mt. Lyell, a colossal mining and industrial con-
cern —the biggest in Australasia and one of the biggest in
the w'orld, a 'monument to Victorian enterprise which will
probably stand the test of a century’s vigorous working,
would probably be dormant to-day but for the fortunes
made out of Broken Hill, and it would have died in its
infancy but for the bonanza found on the supposed foot-
wall of the deposit—the like of which has not been
seen since. Money got out of it—big as it was—was
nothingcompared totheamount itenahled the co. to get by
debentures, etc., to build up the gigantic establishment.
Worked in a small way, the Mt. Lyell would not be a divi
dend-paying proposition ; but with half a million of money
well spent in railways, serial and cable tramways, smelting
and refining works, it is one of the few great copper mines
of the world. It has millions of tons of ore in sight and
has the only smelting base on the field, and in conse-
quence thereof and on account of the inaccessibility of the
country it has an unwritten mortgage on every other
mine within miles of it.
» • * •
North Mt. Lyell is a misnomer. It is not north.
It is not on the same line, for there is no line. Mt. Lyell
itself is not a fissure. It is not on the same mountain.
(Strange to say, Mt. Lyell itself is not on Mt. Lyell.) It has
noconnection whatever with the big mine except in name,
which name, for decency’s sake, it should never have
adopted. North Mt. Lyell has large quantities of ore
infinitely richer than the average of Mt. Lyell. but it is
here, there, everywhere, and nowhere. The deposits have
neither foot nor hanging wall. The first find was made
by accident—the cutting of a road. It is a thing of
threads and patches, big and small bunches and bonanzas,
big and small pockets and pipes, but has nothing that
could be called a fissure or a lode, and therefore nothing
permanent. Impossible to say or guess what it will
eventually turn out, but it is pretty certain that
so far the copper taken out has not paid for
the prospecting work done. The expense in this direction
has been enormous, but developments to date are insuf-
ficient to warrant either the building of a railway or the
erection of smelting works. The co. is going on with
both. Ore is altogether too silicious for direct smelting,
with no great prospect of getting fluxes in the mine or
near it. Less ore in sight, with all its work in tunnels,
open-cuts, trenches, etc., than Mt. Lyell had the day it
was discovered. The writer lel eves there was more ore
in sight at Mt. Lyell before a pick was put in
the ground than is in sight to-day in all the other mines
around it. The Tharsis Co. is working a comparatively
well-defined ore-body of silicious ore on the edge of the
North Lyell side line, and has sent some thousands of
tons of 5 per cent, ore with a little gold and silver to the
Lyell smelters, the result being a dividend or two. It
is the most regular-looking thing outside the parent mine,
although that is not saying much, considering the erratic,,
irregular, will-o’-the-wisp condition of nearly everything
else.
• * * *
Crown Lyell is purely a prospect. It is work-
ing within a short distance of the rich ore-bunches in the
North Lyell, but up to date has practically found nothing
anil has spent a lot of money in doing it. It is now sinking
a big shaft which should strike some of the bunches should
they continue their present dip that far, which, con-
sidering the way they jump about, is extremely
doubtful. Lyell Peaks is a mine that looks like prospect-
ing in the skies. South Tharsis is the first mine to tackle
concentration by water, and has spent some £lO,OOO in
the erection of a compact plant. Has a big body of ore
said to he worth from 2 to 3 per cent., made up
of evenly-distributed and sized iron arid copper
pyrites. Seems to the writer that they have
erected a classifying plant such as is at Zeehan to treat
a purely concentrating ore, and that what is required is
more crushing power and less classifying apparatus.
South Lyell is sinking the main shaft with the hope of
striking the Mt. Lyell deposit. Is in a good position to do
it if it goes that far, hut lime and work alone will tell
whether this enormous deposit or basin of ore will he
found on the other side of the fault known'to exist ahead
of il. There are many other minessurrounding the big one
spending efforts to find copper ore in inaccessible country,
but the chances of finding another Mt. Lyell are even
more remote than the writer’s chance of Heaven.


DAVID JONES & COMPANY
IV3EROEF.S, HATTERS, and GENERAL OUTFBTTERS.
SOFT FRAME FELT HAT.
7/6.
STRAW HATS.
From 2/9, 3/6.
£T IMPORTERS OF
HIGH-GRADE ENGLISH & AMERICAN
FELT HATS, NECK WEAR,
UMBRELLAS, etc., etc.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
PARIS HAT.
21/-
HARD FELT HAT.
8/6, 10/6.
George & Barrack
Streets,
SYDNEY.
DREAD OF WAR!
S*el
E 2
n v
THE BOERS
Fear the British approach with
PREMO CAMERAS
By which, to press a button, secures the
ENEMY’S POSITION—IN FACT, TAKES
A BATTLEFIELD!
Sold in various sizes to suit Ladies or Gents, and
in various Grades and Prices to meet every limit.
From 255. to £25.
HARRIKTGTOINr & 00. LTD.
photographic merchants, qq King Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland Branch— • Melbourne Agents—
-34 Queen Brisbane. Graven & Co., 179 Collins Street.
Agents throughout the Colonies.
Society
AT DESSERT.
Deep-glowing roses on your cheek, and framing
Your cloudless coils of scented hair ;
A smile upon your lips and red blood flaming,
But—in your eyes a glacier of despair !
You blind me not. I pierce the mask that flashes
With luring languor, with seductive jest;
And 10, beneath is dust, dead dust and ashes,
And loathing, and a weary wish for Rest.
Oh, fellow-soul of mine, the dregs are bitter 1
But we are sated with the sickly sweet,
The vapid flavor and the garish glitter
At Life’s loud banquet, where we chanced to meet.
And now—dull hope has slipped her loosened tether ;
You rise to leave the board—you glance at me ;
Yes, Magdalen ! Come, let us go together,
My sister bom of dark affinity.
CAN'T AND WONT.
MR. JONES: “No, poor old Billy has a weak
head. He can't even stand a single drink."
MR. SMITH: “ You mean, I suppose, that he
won’t.”
The Australian Horse contingent has taken
with it to S. Africa a photograph of Lieut.-Col.
Kenneth Mackay’s little daughter, with the pro-
mise to hang the portrait in Kruger’s drawing-
room. But supposing they find that that simple
old peasant-president hasn’t got any drawing-room.
And surely, after all that has been alleged in
jingo circles about Kruger’s villainy, it would be
playing it low down on the girl to hang her photo
on that bad man’s premises.
♦ » * *
A report from Thursday Island tells how,
at the meeting of the local hospital committee,
there were'present “only two Japanese,” but
these two downy gentlemen held about 60 proxies,
whence it resulted naturally that Mr. Satow was
returned at the head of the committee. Mr.
Satow, or Mr. Hokidado, or Mr. Yashidodo is at
balmy' 1 near^y everything on Thursday’s
* • » *
Advt. from N.S.W. country paper : “ For
sale, two Berkshire sows, with "pigs, and York-
shire Boer.” Even the spelling of this great
country is going to wreck by reason of the con-
tingent.
* * * *
The evolution of a romance as told in the
agony column of S.M. Herald :
T ADY in white, Glenmore-rd. ’bus, 6 p.m., send
address to Z.R., Herald.
2. R.—Lady in white sent address. Got no reply.
7. R. called for Letter, NONE YET TO HAND
some mistake. Address, H. Levar, G.P.O.
R- Applied. Was told no letter. Please write
again.
Z to address, or make appointment
through this paper. Lady in white.
* • « .
Melbourne Age advt. (20/l/’00)
WIDOW, alone, 40, R. 0., property valued £7OOO,
income £l2 weekly, wishes introduction, police-
man or warder preferred, under 45, tall, view matri-
mony. Holt’s.
Twelve pounds a week waiting to be bestowed
on a tall policeman ! And when did anyone ever
see an advertisement to the effect that a lady
worth £7OOO desired to marry a reporter?
* .* * *
Melbourne is carrying on about the pauper
lead in pauper coffins being left floating about in
open graves on wet days in the general cemetery.
But there is the same old indifference about bring-
ing the live pauper in out of the wet. He, alas,
is left to float about as usual.
* * « .
An amazing item from Adelaide :
The new police inquiry board met this morning to take
evidence with respect to a charge against several detec-
tives. The only charges with respect to which the late
board were unanimous were dealt with, and the whole of
the evidence which it is proposed to call was taken. The
evidence of the detectives themselves showed that they
relied to a great extent on a man of the criminal class
named Flynn for information as to other criminals’ move-
ments, and one detective stated that so much unrest had
been caused in the detective office by the recent suspen-
sion of five detectives that their comrades were afraid to
associate with Flynn lest they also should be suspected.
In consequence of this, though there were many cases of
picking pockets in Adelaide during the holidays, no pick-
pockets were arrested.
If the Adelaide detective force has got into such a
state of dependence on a criminal named Flynn
that the capture of offenders stops short as soon as
Flynn ceases to give information, it would seem
that Adelaide badly wants a new force. Under
the old arrangement, Flynn apparently might
commit with impunity almost any crime he
pleased, for the force could hardly arrest its own
sole means of support and put him out of the way.
And in view of the fact that Flynn isn’t immortal,
and the machine of justice will seemingly stop
when he dies, and in further view of the fact that
Flynn may have personal or religious prejudices
which the community doesn’t know of, and not
knowing can’t grovel to, and that Flynn may be
an unfair-minded man who sools the detectives on
to innocent citizens when his religious prejudices
aren’t grovelled to —in fact, there are a whole lot
of unpleasant possibilities about this reliance on
Flynn.
Tasmania has been very badly bitten by
the Loyalty fever, and even the democratic West
Coast has not escaped. Rev. P. N. Hunter, of
Zeehan, offered himself as chaplain to the second
Tas. Contingent without first asking for leave of
absence from Bishop Montgomery, his ecclesiastical
superior. After the Minister for Skirmish (it is
hardly big enough to be called War when the army
goes out 45 strong) had accepted the offer, it was
found that the Bishop would refuse to grant the
needful authority to the would-be chaplain. At
this the loyal Flvspeck turned in its sleep, and
even stretched itself. Public meetings and depu-
tations crowded one on another, and the chaplain
himself came over to Hobart to arrange matters.
Eventually it was settled that the parsonic fire-
eater should be allowed to go later on, but this did
not satisfy the Jingo mob, and all good Tasmanians
now groan enormous groans like the diprotodon in
pain when they mention the name of Montgomery.
* * * •
The terrible grammar of Victorian Chief-
Justice Madden t
It is the trial and burthen of scouting through undu-
lating, intermingled ranges, with their innumerable steep
and winding valleys, or up and down steep and craggy
hills, or else riding monotonously under a burning sun,
over such never-ending dusty plains, as we know so well,
which seem to be so trying and so difficult to our regular
cavalry, and which is now making “the Australians” a
new “arm of the service.”
If Madden would take his seat on the bench and
sentence his verb to pay 7s. 6d. a week for the
maintenance of its own deserted nominative, it
would be a fair thing.
V * * * *
The first time a lighthouse - keeper’s
youngster, who had passed his five years of exist-
ence on timberless Solitary Island, saw a tree, he
began to talk to it. At last, frightened by its un-
reciprocal attitude,_ he ran screaming to his mother.
“Mumma,” he said, “that big thing won’t go
away and won’t say nothing.”
A FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
BROKER: “Say, old man, lend me a sov.”
BROKE : “ Can’t, sonny, but I can let you has
ten bob."
BROKER: “All right; you can owe me the other
ten, and we'll call it quits."
Recent S.M. Herald advt.:—
V OUNG Woman wants Situation as Housekeeper ;
seafaring gent preferred.
Close contact with gaol officialdom has
had its almost inevitable effect on ex-Chief Secre-
tary Peacock. Talking to the*Vic. Assembly last
week re the “too substantial” food provided for
malefactors in general, Peacock took up the
ancient Tory parable that “there are some
prisoners who cannot be reformed ,” and who would
therefore be all the better for “a little more lash."
This was one of the rare occasions when Peacock
and Frank Madden were quite in sympathy.
Madden hailed the reference to hardened criminals
with a cry of “human tigers,” whereupon the
young patentee of the Peacockian Laugh solemnly
observed that “human tigers” was the proper
expression. But if those two senators were to
enquire into the working of Fitzgerald’s menagerie
they would discover that tigers are not tamed with
the lash.
The unspeakable Melbourne Board of
Works has a pleasing habit of inviting local muni-
cipal councillors to view its pet white elephant,
Werribee sewage farm ; and recently it requested
the Footscray city fathers to come and enjoy
themselves in that rather offensive locality. The
caterer’s bill, subsequently presented, ran some-
what after this fashion : Whisky, 155.; claret, 55.;
ale, 125.; brandy, 6s. 6d.; cigars, 205.; hamper, £4
4s. 6d. ; waggonette, £2 10s.; dinners, £2 6s. 6d. ;
fares, &c., £1 9s. 6d. The councillors enjoyed
themselves hugely, and unanimously agreed that
the farm was a success. A week later the bill was
forwarded to the Footscray Council, for liquida-
tion. Then observations ensued. One councillor
(Toohey), having paid his share, posed as the em-
bodiment of all the virtues, and desired to make
his fellows pay theirs likewise. Also, he charged
one alleged teetotaller with having drank a large
quantity of alcohol at the picnic; whereupon that
individual expressed a profound contempt for any
man who would go out to enjoy the Board of
Works’ hospitality and return with the intention
of showing it up. Altogether, it was a pretty
squabble, and eminently indicative of Melbourne
and its ways ; and in the end the cost of the fes-
tivities was charged to the ratepayers, as usual.
One member pointed out that the expenditure was
illegal, which it certainly was, but a little thing
like that doesn’t matter in Victoria.
* * *
“ Albion Park " relates a railway-adven-
ture to The Bulletin :
Once travelled, by mail-train, from Oootamundra to
Sydney, and shall not readily forget the trip. Got into a
compartment and found a single occupant—an innocent
young woman. Would have withdrawn, and got in with
a couple of Chinamen, but hadn’t time then , and made up
my mind to shift at next station. Determined, mean-
while to keep myself to myself, and settled down to read
a newspaper, the contents of which I almost learned by
heart. Then the lady began to sneeze, and I allowed myself
to look up. She smiled, and handed over some bananas,
telling me that I might smoke, if I cared to. I cared to—
it happened to be a “ smoker ’’—and I thanked her. Then
she started to prattle, and I found myself wondering how
somebody could allow such a guileless young thing to
travel so far without protection. A casual observer might
have thought we had gone to school together. Told me
that she was travelling to Sydney to see a sister, and
hinted that her financial condition was not as flourishing
as it might be. When the train reached Strathfield, she
got a little closer, and asked if I could “ let her have a
sovereign ” which she would be sure to send along to any
given address. Told her I was rather short of Cash ; and,
in fact, that I couldn’t accommodate her. Then she re-
marked that it might “ save a lot of trouble” if I parted
up, as, otherwise, I might be detained at Redfern. Just
here I began to “ tumble.” She was obviously churning
up the necessary hysterics ; and, as I wanted to get away
to Maoriland that day I compromised for half-a-sov, and
as soon as the train reached Sydney I got away and shook
h mds with myself.
INDISPUTABLE!
OFFICER : “ How's this? You have hut one spur."
PRIVATE : “ Sure, sir, whin I spur the horse on
one side the other side will keep going."
Up to my neck in work again for sixteen hours a day ;
It’s light the fire at 6 a.m., but it’s never knock off till 10.
An’ the missus a-snarling an’ nagging at me, which is
always the missus’s way ;
I’ll work for these cats of women no more, but I’ll try my
luck with the men.
Tars are a soft-hearted lot with girls, and free with their
sugar, I’ve heard ;
So here’s a try for a housekeeping job—with a Seafaring
Gent preferred.
But s’posing the gent has a lady or two strewed round in
them foreign ports,
Promiscuous like, with a litter o’ Mds ; well, s’posing he
has, what then ?
It’s better than slaving for 6d. a week, buzzing round for
them underbred sorts.
An’ I’m sick of their clatter an’ finding fault, so I’ll have a
go in at the men :
Who wants a housekeeper—pretty and young, dark-eyed
and golden-haired ?
A kind-hearted man he must be, if you please—but a Sea-
faring Gent preferred.
BENEATH THE MOON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
While the blood runs free in the veins of youth
And the eyes are all aglow,
When the lips of love and the kiss of truth
And the voices whisper low,
We’ll take no heed of the over-wise,
For the things they praise and the gold they prize
Are the scorn of the blood that’s red ;
So here’s a song for the love that’s strong
And the day when we mean to wed.
For the graceful throat and the marble brow,
And the eyes of a love-lit gray,
For the lips that chide us lightly now,
And the smiles of a future day.
Oh ! the world is kind to a heart aglow,
And the stars are soft and the moon rides low
To smile on the forehead fair,
With the lips we kiss and the words we miss
Deep drowned in a sea of hair.
WILL M. FLEMING.


13 Hunter Street,
Sydney | and at Brisbane.
Importers of the Noted
Zeiss Field Glasses.
Four Sizes kept in Stock.
Full particulars on application.
GOLDSMITHS & JEWELLERS
sd
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
%
I
pONDY'S
u Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The Effect is magical.
Beware of Colonial Imitatio s
Insist on buying
“CONDY’S FLUID."
The foil owing name & add
should be at foot of label:
Condy & Mitchell, 65, Goswell Rd., London, En ?.
Recent S.M. Herald ad. :
A YOUNG LADY (lame) requires a Young Lady
COMPANION, who must be also lame. Fair
salary. *
It is too pathetic to be laughed at.
* * * *
Ware imitators,
ZETZ-SPA WATER.
Watch the bottle, and object unless you get
ZETZ. The Queen of Natural Waters. Long
life and happiness in ZETZ.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’laid.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QUAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS —White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
“ Malle ” : In that Jingoistic work by
Griffith, “Briton or Boer,” the final calamity is
brought on the Boers by a magnificent charge of
the British, in which an expert Yankee volunteer
lassoos Kruger, and yanks him out of the shindy;
after which Oom Paul is sent to St. Helena.
Now, some expert harpooners from Norfolk
Island want to go to South Africa. Is it expected
that they will Mme in useful for harpooning
Kruger ?
* * * *
The other day a “Girls’ meeting” was held
at Hobart to raise money for that purpose whose
very name has become such a weariness that
it is better left unsaid. There were two
present who might have been called
girls without the speaker falling
down dead in the presence of
Peter, the apostle. Most of
the others don’t keep
u p their birthdays
now. A local paper
tried to make the best
of the situation; it
said “ a young lady ”
(one of the two girls
aforesaid) “moved
a resolution,” and
described the rest
of the speakers as
“ Miss Smith ”
which is non-commit-
tal. Hobart, like most
slow places, is the
home of the old maid.
and Miss Smith
grows to an
alarming age
there some-
timaa.
“ Way-backer ” : The committee of Port
Pirie (S.A.) institute (they call all libraries “in-
stitutes” in S.A.) has solemnly excommunicated
The Bulletin —to the great advantage of its local
circulation. But as I wanted to know all about
this war I called lately at the “institute, as it
seemed to be a centre of local enlightenment. I
have 'been well rewarded, for I learned things I
never hoped to know. Two female electors were
especially well informed ; they are friends of the
local Major, and, as one of ’em said, they ought to
know. Here are a few things that I bet you
weren’t aware of. Kruger has 23 wives. The other
lady said 18, but this is adetail. Polygamy is gener-
al. Joubert is distrusted; he has only one wife. (The
other lady didn’t seem to think much of Joubert
either. Joubert is pronounced Chubert). Wh en
they want more wives they kill a few Kaffirs.
(Don’t understand how that would help them?
Neither do I). Of course, slavery is the law there.
Most of the population is half-caste. They are
terrible cowards. (On getting this information I
must have looked incredulous. I _was smothered
with the further information that if they weren t
cowards they would not get behind rocks, but
would stand up and be shot like men). After-
wards, I found that the yarns about the wives and
the slaves are pretty widely believed in S.A.
**" * *
Melbourne Argus announces, with pride,
that its weekly satellite contains “fac-simile of
the lid of the box containing the chocolate given
as a Christmas present to the troops in South Africa
by Her Majesty the Queen.” This is what loyalty
leads to. -
» * * *
“Eller" : There is nothing like getting
value for your money. Saw a whole family of
eight get weighed on one of the automatic weigh-
ing machines for a penny. Pa stepped on, and
placed brown in slot. Then ma got on quickly
before pa got off, and someone else got on before
ma got off, and so on. Then the family put Id.
in the adjacent electric-shock machine, and all
joined hands and hung on. They even invited
some passing children to join the ring and get a
shock for the same penny, and one of them brought
a dog into the circle, but the dog, as soon as he
felt the shock, broke away with a shriek and bit
the thrifty family, Wherefore I rejoiced greatly
and was exceeding glad.
Decided to have an independent inquiry
into the bubonic plague cases at Adelaide
Hospital. The fact that one or two dead rats
have been found with alleged bubonic “cultures”
strengthens the suspicion that someone had been
experimenting on living rodents. Even now the
general public firmly believe that there never was
any plague at all, so far as the first patient,
Eppstein, the sailor, was concerned.
A FEASIBLE SCHEME.
YOUTH: “Say, Jack , d'yer want ter get
inter the match for nuthin ’?”
JACK: “My oath, yes.”
YOUTTH: “ Well, walk in backwards—the bloke 'll think yer cornin' out”
Curtis, M.L.A. for Rockhampton (Q.), to
members of the 2nd Queensland Contingent
“ And those of you who may not come back will
have the consolation, of knowing that your names
will never be forgotten.” Probably the same
thing was said to the men of Waterloo and Inker-
man—and among all the thousands of privates
who fell there about the only name that survives
is something of a joke concerning an alleged Bill
Adams.
A terrible misfortune happened to a cer-
tain Sydneyite the other day—a family man of
years and discretion. He was walking one evening
down a rather quiet street ornamented here and
there by policemen, when a damsel, whose flaring
red blouse and general air of Flossiedom pro-
claimed her occupation, plaintively besought him
to let her trot down the street with him,
because the “bobbies” had a “down” on her,
but wouldn’t run her in if they saw her
with a real gent. The old gent, being an
eminently respectable old gent, refused
with horror, but on Flossie reiterating
that surely he would not let a poor girl
go to gaol, he relented, remembered that
it was dusk, and that no one knew him in
that part of the town, so, taking the
red-sleeved arm in his, beguiled the
time by talking to her seriously on the
error of her ways, and what a pity
such a nice girl, &c., &c. He was
just in the midst of his most pathe-
tic arguments when he turned a cor-
ner, and beneath the glare of the
street lamp fell against his son, who
was also escorting a red-bloused lady
from benevolent motives. He is a good
son, who has been strictly brought
up by his Roman parent, and he
didn’t expect to meet the Roman
parent there or in such society.
And here the curtain falls so
suddenly that you have a
splendid chance to get
your head bumped by the
roller before you can get it
out of the road.
“ S.S.” writes :—The departed
Governor Brassey has left one young man
lamenting. The young man m question
is a typewriter in the civil service. When
Brassey was a fresh item in Mel-
bourne, he wanted a typewriter
to fix those ideas of his which
are such a comfort to the soul.
The Govt, turned on a typist,
and for the extra work Bras-
sey agreed to pay him £50
a year out of the vice-regal
pocket. That typist rattled
keys for his Ex. throughout
his term of office and never
got a cent. He fondly expected a cheque for the
lump up to the last moment, but it came not; and
Lord Tom has fallen off again—fallen off terribly in
the estimation of a much disappointed man. Bras-
sey was a rather decent old gentleman with a bad
memory, who paid everybody honorably if he
didn’t forget. He paid the rest of the people
when they recalled the bill to his memory. But
some Melb. people are so loyal just now that they
won’t remind an Excellency of the small amount
owing.
• * * •
The officer who acted as horse-buyer for one
of the contingents seems to have been a huge joke.
In one case a dealer came along with a couple of
very plain, ordinary, serviceable steeds, mounted
by plain, ordinary stable-boys. Officer was
jovially ironical. Wouldn’t give a “fiver” for the
pair of them, waved his martial hand and sug-
fested that the meek quadrupeds should be boiled
own for soup. A few hours later the wily dealer
sent them along again, this time with a couple of
artistic horsemen on their backs, and half a bottle
of whisky in their respective stomachs. Result—
officer bought the now prancing and mettlesome
chargers for £15 and £20 respectively.
* * * *
Lately an influential person in a small
Vic. town went out on a surreptitious “tear”
which reached into the small hours. Going home
he met a large thunderstorm in a small paddock,
and being too tired to battle with it, went to sleep
in a claypan with his head on a hillock. Rain
WEARY AND WORLD-WORN.
LIZ.: “ You'll cop it, Nipper; yer old woman's
bin callin' yer fer 'arf an 'our, so yer better
git there quick."
“o, git; you women think a bloke’s got nuthin ’
ter do but keep running after yer ail his life."
filled said claypan till only the influential one’s
head was visible. Some early road-menders,
thinking they had discovered evidence of a tragedy,
turned the water into a handy drain so as to in-
vestigate without disturbing “the body,” but as
the pool went down they were scattered by an
angry roar from the supposed remains: “Dash
you, Sarah, leave me some of the blankets, will
you?”
lii some respects the French are a wise
nation. They have just instituted orders and
medals for washerwomen. The British Patriot
gives long lectures on the superiority of housework
to factory and shop-labor, and how much more it
should be reverenced. Then he calls the servant-
girl by her front name, and playfully refers to her
as the “slavey,” and doesn’t ask her into the
drawing-room of an evening when the coun-
ter-jumperess has called to see his wife.
And still he wonders why Mary Jane
is a disappearing quantity.
THE OTHER KIND.
LANCER (to Jackey): “ How would you like to
be a soldier, Jackey?"
JACKEY: “I wouldn't like to be a real soldier;
but I wouldn't mind bein' a Lancer."
“ David G.” : Extract from a memo, from
N.S.W. Charities Department in answer to an
application for renewal of a small money allowance
to an old man and his wife: —
I have to enquire if you will enter a cottage home with
your wife. You will have a comfortable home, and not
be separated from one another.
It turned out that the “comfortable home” con-
sisted of a partitioned-off compartment of a large
room, with two single beds and a box for furniture,
no convenience for cooking, and no table. The
cooked food has to be fetched from the “big
house ” (asylum) a mile away and always arrives
cold. Is that how N.S.W. Government will
redeem its pledges to the wounded Contingent
men when they come back?
* * * •
Observations :—
It is impossible to believe all the ladies who say they
are as old “ as they look.” Some of them cannot possibly
be as old as all that.
What is Memory ? The fertile begetter of brilliant im-
promptus.
If women love us they forgive us everything—even our
vices. If they don’t love us, they won’t even forgive us
our virtues.
* * • *
A tragedy which took place the other day
in S.A. is, in its own small way, a whole essay on
the fact that marriage without furniture is a curse.
A young woman named Fisher (her age
was only 22), shot herself in the empty
house where she and her husband (aged
27) led a precarious existence on the
floor for want of anything better to sit
upon. The only reasons assignable (if it
wasn’t accident) were poverty, and de-
spair, and utter weariness of the
struggle against adversity, and her
husband’s inability to obtain work.
They had been married two months,
so apparently they started their
married life in the casual Australian
fashion on the bare floor, and
without an income. And after that
brief period of connubial bliss on
the floor the girl-wife gave it best.
m * *
Kindermann, a German
caterer, of Adelaide, who sells, the
best coffee and pastry south of the
line, is, or rather was, largely
patronised by the Adelaide stock 1
brokers. One day recently, K.
opined off - handedly that the
Boers could whop the Britishers.
Whereupon 50 stockbrokers got
up en masse and went out of the
shop—without paying, probably!
This episode is another proof, if further proof
were needed, of the unswerving loyalty of stock l
brokers throughout the Empire. Still—that coffee,
specially imported, and the pastry, were so good !
In short, a number of absent-minded stockbrokers
have already forgotten the episode, and lunch at
Kindermann’s as of old.
HUBBY AT THE WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Suggested by the recent public statement of a gentle-
man that his lovely wife urged him to go and fight the
Boers.
I told him how I honored those
Who fought for England Old,
I told him how I’d love to find
In him a warrior bold.
I took our Reggie’s khaki suit
And placed it neath his chin,
And showed how lovely it would look
Upon his florid skin.
At Darling Point he married me,
Just seven years ago.
I’ve had him mostly ever since
And found him—rather slow.
He’s by my side, at church, in drive,
At concert, dance and play—
My dear, it will be such a change
When Hubby is away !
He’s leaving me with ample coin
(I cried, my dear, so long),
Ample for me to hold my own
In any stylish throng ;
Ample to buy me picture hats
And foulards of to-day,
(For we don’t eat so much, my dear,
When Hubby is away.)
There’s bicycles and Lillie Bridge,
And picnics on the lawn ;
There’s tennis-courts and cameras,
And dancing until dawn ;
There’s harbor trips and moonlight nights
And church-bazaars galore—
My dear, I’ll have a lovely time
When Hubby’s with the Boer.
JOHN CAREW.


Country readers would do well to try the
**Albatross Lamp Wick.” “It requires no trimming,”
saves oil, has no smell whatever, and it is almost impos-
sible to have an explosion of a lamp in which they are
used. Messrs. Chambers and Seymour, of Collins-street,
have one window entirely devoted to the Co.’s (roods.*
CORSETS^-.
Btiilt op Apatorpical Pripciplcs,
Making dGe allowapcc for tfce flat, tigbt-
fittipg Styles poW ip tfogGe,
Are to be obtaiped at
—MARK FOY’S.
They allow atpple breatbipg rooip, apd giye
tbe correct bip cGt at po sacrifice of corpfort
or Sbapelipess-
All Drapers Everywhere.
PUBLIC
NOTICE.
fs
The
Infallible
Exterminator of Bedroom Insects.
is now obtainable from all Chemists and Grocers,
at Is. per bottle.
Wholesale : ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd. ; all
Wholesale Grocers, and the Agents, 150 The
Strand.
GLOBE TEAS haTe w ° 11811
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
My Dear Mtee,- Sydney> January 30 > 190 °-
A rumor that His Ex. had resigned his travel-
hngseholarship got wind last week, and it was
aided by the fact that inquisitive people who
asked Premier Lyne for tf.e truth about tte
matter were not met by the usual flat denial of
the man who does know something. Next day
nto a /ho r i P f°y ';i ,1 ! d i Sett,od dow » comfortably
into the belief that he really was a very nice
young nmn now that he was going. His Ex. pub-
bflla/ 1 ' 11 T fi n< v d i US mtentlon of bolding on to the
billet indefinitely— a very sensible intention cen-
tering that he is just off on a pleasure trip round
Maoriland where the local Excellency is going to
introduce him to the Maori king. b s
thnf STr,* i Uffori ?s s ? ll li J tle f ™ thermometer
that she—l feel sure it will be a she—will reckon
up the weeks and mouths Gov. Beauchamp has
not spent at Govt. House, there will be an eerie-
ioolang total, I fancy Out of his nine vice-regal
Sydney probably spent about six weeks in
By the way, I hear that his Ex. has a habit that
often disconcerts the people taking him round a
sliow. He always wants to know “Why?”
k rom a wool warehouse to a race-horse lie picks
out cunning questions to floor officials with and in
a country where one doesn’t trouble too laboriously
to find out the “why” of anything, the habit
resolves itself into a fly in the ointment of the
person who is showing this vice-regal note of
interrogation round.
Bound for England this week are Mr. and Mrs
Edward Rundle (nee Miss Nellie Hill), and Miss
k lorrie Hill, the latter’s sister.
Society is very ragged and holey (that e’s all
n f>bt) just now. Half the smart women are away
or packing up ; Mrs. Mitchell and Mrs. Burdelan
are m crape and retirement, and all the nice young
men are away Boer-hunting. It is exceedingly
mournful nowadays to look round at a function
and note the absence of scores of familiar mas-
culine faces generally seen everywhere. Rand wick
on Anniversary Day was a place in point. The
members stand was empty, except for a few dressy
Jewish women making the most of Friday : the
Y.R. box was a sad blank.
Casting a tired eye round, a refresher offered in
the shape of a millionaire’s wife’s little doings,
bhe was dressed in a white washing frock, which
was evidently intended to last out the summer
and save the awful “one whit froke, one-and-six ”
of the laundry-lady’s bill. She spread two yards
of cloth along the seat, and carefully bonnet-
pinned it up over the back. That done, she
beckoned her gilded spouse, pointed out her
arrangements, and they sat down in comfort,
knowing that no grain of dust would lure them
into fresh toilettes before they were ready.
In frocks I noticed pretty Mrs. Robert Moss in
navy foulard with ecru lace trimmings, and a
string-colored straw hat with mauve flowers ; Mrs.
Ted Simpson in a dashing little short jacket of
rose-colored silk over a white pique skirt ; Mrs.
Collins in violet with much guipure on the bodice
and a violet toque; Frances Adler in a scarlet
Tam o’ Shanter and waist-belt to match over a
cream silk frock ; a five days bride in her travelling
dress of grey voile over mauve silk, and a lovely
lace bodice, out of which her girl friends picked
rice between the races. Speaking of brides, a
local bridegroom did such a sensible thing lately
that I wonder it hasn’t become a custom long ago.
Seeing his bride rushed by promiscuous women
and pecked and kissed in the most violent way he
seized one pretty girl after another. <«id kissed
them all on the steps of the church.
That clever young stager, Sydney Bracy, son of
the well-known and universally-liked Mr. and
Mrs. Henry Bracy, went off to London last week
to try his fortune.
More departing talent. Maud McCarthy left
last Saturday— went back, in fact, to enjoy royal
commands once more. Her mother accompanied
her, and I believe, too, a younger brother with
still more talent.
He those royal commands, artists work them
for all they are worth nowadays, and a good deal
more. In Maud McCarthy’s case her name was
hardly ever seen prior to her Australian tour,
except in conjunction with Queen Vic.’s. The
Antipodes puts high value on any local genius sent
for by Her Gracious, listened to for five minutes,
and presented with a cat’s-eye brooch. The idea
always gets abroad that this particular genius was
an especial favourite at Windsor—the only one the
Queen really liked, in fact. To see the other side
of the case, read a little in English musical papers,
and you will be amazed to find ;the number of
little singers and fiddlers and pianistes who record
in their interviews how “the dear Queen sent for
me and expressed the greatest pleasure,” etc.
Maud took a benefit concert on Anniversary
night at the Town Hall. Crowded house, by far
the best of her season. On the whole, she has not
done badly in Australia, financially, though there
was nothing like the flow of coiu anticipated by—
I really forget who anticipated it. On Friday
Maud was in green liberty, with green shoes, and
had had her hair cut considerably. She
touched the large house with her encore of
Scotch songs. Dr. McCarthy, who has the
reputation of being musical, stepped out here
and accompanied Annie Laurie with some soulful
soft-pedalled vamping, music that reminded me of
-Fry } aiI J s schoolboy disappointed in love, play-
lng sad waltzes with the loud and soft pedal down.
JJ ashing Marie Aarelle, in pink silk, thrilled “0
mio 1 ernando with more abandon than Sydney
u ' te educated up to. I prefer Miss Narelle in
1 S 5 \ n -h an >' on e might preen herself over
L,l Clear^ rv ' d ffa t m which she enunciates “I
io\e you. Kate Rooney’s tearful voice was as
s;ki as ever and as sweet, imploring the house to
Sleep my love, sleep!” The favorite song, by
tiie way of pretty Marion Burton, who used to
scoop Nerudas bouquets right away from the
certs r ° WS whenever she san £ it at the Halle con-
Kipling was popularised before a mighty
audience m the Centenary Hall on
the motive being an addition to the Women’s
1 atnotio 1 und Lawrence Campbell organised
Tvf 0 r r?li a1 ’ w uch , result ed in a big cash donation.
I™ uTv Wl :° cau^ht his fish so cunningly
gave eight of Kipling s popular ballads, including
* l ‘ )i 11 ‘ e X ltabl c ° Beggar, ” which was greeted with
such a hail of substantial delight as to necessitate
the temporary suspension of proceedings. It was
truly amusing to see Alfred Hill, Campbell, and two
or three others going down on all-fours, groping for
the coin, which seemed to land always in the
most inaccessible spots. Burns-Walker sang two
patriotic songs from Alfred Hill’s pen, Henry
Weir and A. A. Hollander two others, and the audi-
ence worked up to such a pitch that, had Mr.
Campbell come forward and asked for contribu-
tions in kind, it is certain that hats, coats—and
other things would have been thrown at him
without a murmur.
Nothing like being a martyr in a good cause.
1 hat is why everyone wonders that Dolly Vane
has not appeared with a patched eye after some of
the coin-storms she nightly subjects herself to.
tier appeal still averages about £lO a night.
Women who have been to the Cape have a great
pull over others nowadays. And don’t they revel
in the glory of it. A local actress was telling
dramatically how she offered to go and assassinate
Kruger That was five years ago” said she.
Hut what was he doing then ” said her envious
afternoon tea-party. “ Doing ? Dreadful things.
W hy my dears, unless I bribed the guards, I could
only take about a quarter of my luggage in the
train.with me ; the parcel rate was so high.”
Another Sydney woman who lived for years in
the Transvaal, can tell about a visit Kruger paid
her one morning. She went into her sitting-room
and found a big fat man without any boots or
socks, wearing an English bell-topper hat, spitting
on her floor. “Get me some coffee, Frau,” said he,
and spat again. And then, according to her, she
rose up and said, “ Mr. ‘ Kreer,’ in my country men
do not order women to get them things, nor do
they spit on the floor in a woman’s presence.” How
she reconciled, that with her conscience she doesn’t
explain, but it is enough that she did not pro-
nounce his name Krewger.
He was a newspaper scribbler and he strolled
up to the long line of helmeted constabulary and
addressed the nearest with charming familiarity :
Haw! what time do the Boer-stickers arrive? ”
The constabulary looked at him with a pained ex-
pression for 50 seconds or so and then in a most
reproving tone—“l presume you mean ‘what
time do the troops embark ?’ ” “ I does ! ” replied
the crushed journalist, and he crawled away like a
wounded “gohanner.”
Some comparatively cheap Sydney hash-houses
have instituted the not-to-be-violated-without-
apology rule of evening-dress for dinner. Should
a paying guest feel that a dress suit and a white
tie are a burden to the flesh in these warm evenings
he is expected, on entering the dining-room, to
bow ceremoniously to his hostess, Mrs. de Toney,
whose ample charms are displayed at the end of
the table in half-mast-high bodice. Also, he is
expected to say, “Excuse my ‘dissabile,’ and it
shall not occur again.” And the pound per week
boarder (or 17/G if he goes out all day on Sunday)
sits down among the other full-dressed or under-
dressed guests, graciously pardoned by a bow
from his hostess.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The kissing of the Queenslanders and the
batch of Sydney Lancehs during their spell in
Melbourne was one long, intense embrace. The
girls of Port ‘ Melbin ’ were the worst offenders ;
they waited for the men on the station-platform
at Flinders-street after the Exhibition function,
and hugged them generally, the proceedings
lasting for three-quarters of an hour, whilst the
porters and other miserable civilians stood aside
unnoticed. Porters are accused by M'Culloch,
M.L.C., of being mostly disloyal, and what
wonder ? When a public official has to stand by
for 45 minutes at a stretch, and see the girls who
used to admire his shining buttons worshipping
at a strange shrine, he wouldn’t be flesh and blood
if he didn’t feel bitter towards the new shrine and
everything connected therewith. Even the fact
that some of the devotees went off with the
soldiers’ portable property was inadequate con-
solation.
“It is alleged in Parliamentary circles that
Brassey prepared a most elaborate and costly
scheme for sending himself away from Victoria in
great style. He had it all worked out on paper
and submitted it to the M‘Lean Government. He
would never have dared to breathe-such a thing to
careful George Turner. The scheme provided for
i bringing troops from all parts of the country, for
the streets being lined with soldiers with fixed
bayonets, for arches, bands, escorts, firing of
cannon, and a regular hullabaloo. It was for-
warded to Premier M‘Lean, who nearly had a fit
on the spot. He found on enquiry that it would
cost over £6OOO to send Brassey away in the style
he wanted. He said “No ” loudly, and Brassey
had to be content with going off at the head of the
second contingent, and bowing gracefully in re-
sponse to cheers that were not meant for him.
“In notes, gold-lettered S.de.Y.B. in left corner,
sent around to private friends and present-makers
before departing, Lady Brassey expressed herself
really (underlined) sorry to leave Victoria. Her
hair had grown almost white in the Vice-Regal
service, and the deepening wrinkles compelled her
to pass many weary hours a week in the hands of
the face-masseuse. Yet there is the really under-
lined on the word of a Vere de Vere ?
“Not a few former nobodies, promoted per
favor of Gov. Brassey, follow their patron to his
native heath. To them the Ancient Mariner has
already acted the part of Moses, leading them
across a desert of neglect to swell the ranks of
local Sassiety-leaders. Now the Great Dropper is
gone, but pilgrims mean to ‘ meet their pilot face
to face ’ t’other side of the pond, with a view to
securing his guidance into the Promised Land of
British ’ristocratie circles.
“Unkind persons said that Madden’s sudden
illness at the time of Brassey’s departure was due
to the strained relations between himself and the
man who used to fall off. Madden, however, a
week after Brassey had gone, still declared himself
too ill to take up his residence in the vice-regal
quarters—and he isn’t the sort of man to procras-
tinate much when it comes to hoisting his little
bit of bunting on the square tower of the house by
the Yarra. Besides, it is now alleged that he and
the Dropper were always the best of friends.
“At a wedding last week, when the hymeneal
fizz was bubbling, the blessed tambourine was
passed round for the same old Thomas, and people
primed with the nectar parted their tram-coins
with an inward groan. Where ivill the coin-collect-
in" end ? When one meets another in the street,
it isn’t a careless nod and ‘ How d’do ? ’ it is a
care-worn, brow-beaten look, and : ‘ Did you bring
sixpence in case the hat goes round ? ’ The Absent
Minded Beggar fever rages at Sewing-bees, busi-
ness-meetings, charity affairs, in trains and on
door-steps, also everywhere.
“ It is not only the humble Tommy Atkins who
leaves ‘a lot of little things behind him.’ An
officer who lately quitted these shores left a good
many unpaid things—by no means little ones—
behind him. He wasn’t an absent-minded beggar
over the matter either ; the creditors took care that
lie was reminded. He was an absent-funded beg-
gar ; that’s all.
“ Speaker Mason (Vic.) is trying to keep Par-
liament House cool during the dog days by
putting half-a-ton of ice daily in the air funnels
through which the Chamber is ventilated. It
makes a wonderful difference. Before he tried the
experiment legislators, with their tongues hanging
out, rushed to the refreshment-room every quarter
of an hour. Now they stay in the Chamber and
attend to business, finding it the coolest place in
the city.
“Local sassiety journals have lately been letting
themselves go in an unwonted rush of chronicles
re a certain southern heiress, her grace, beauty and
other possessions. Said bepuffed damsel, to do
her justice, has an abundant share of good looks,
despite a dearth of dimples in face and form,
which may be more or less pronounced ten years
hence than at present. But these admiring scribes,
when reminiscing of silken infancy and golden
girlhood, draw a veil over the days when the
then heiress-apparent attended day-school in the
vicinity of economical Pa’s acres, clad in keeping
with her copper-toed boots and white cotton
stockings. Of course if Pa hadn’t been built that
way there would probably be no family fortune
now. It is the hard-saving man who makes
money, and these copper-toed boots were part of
the old man’s money-making instincts. The
heiress herself had such strict economy
drilled into her in the copper-toed days
that her father’s own daughter looks twice at a
shilling even now—though this is a common
characteristic of local ‘Naicest,’ among whom our
late Governor fostered a spirit of discreet close-
fistedness. When his Excellency felt the need of
congenial company, he invariably filled the aching
void with some retired money-grubber with ‘no
nonsense about him,’ but everything very com-
fortable for himself and guests—you know the
sort of guests I mean. Not the dead-loss kind pre-
scribed in the Scriptures.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
Parson Mackay, of Bendigo ("Vic.) dropped
something heavy and sudden into the midst of the
Presbyterian Assembly with this motion :
That the Church set apart a day for humiliation and
prayer in consequence of the unjust war now being waged
by Great Britain against the Transvaal.
The sturdy old preacher didn’t carry his motion,
but at least the members of the Scotch covenant-
ing brigade were gentlemen and gave him a hear-
ing. The average jingo, who is now trying to
abolish freedom of speech in Australia, would
only have given him a brick.
Dear Bulletin.— The beginning of the
end ? A Grafton (N.S.W.) blacksmith has just ad-
vertised for an apprentice about 15 yrs. old.
“ Cigarette Smokers not Wanted.”— Medi-Cuss
With reference to ex-cavalry Capt. Hems-
wortli, mentioned in last week’s issue, The
Bulletin is requested to state that, though that
gentleman is unfortunately very ill and not too
favorably circumstanced, he.does not want for any
essential comfort, and would, in any case, be
deeply mortified at the idea of an appeal to the
public, which, it now appears, was suggested by
an unauthorised person.
Apropos of that Glassey proposal re heads
of Public Departments starting Patriotic Fund
lists among the subordinates, the Queensland
Railway Department has already taken the hint
and commenced docking the employees 2d in the
£ per month. One railway hand happened to re-
mark incidentally that “perhaps the Boers were not
such bad fellows after all ’’—for which piece of in-
solence he had to promptly tender an abject
apology to save himself from dismissal. The
spirit of freedom is indeed abroad.
“ David G.” : Sydney’s solitary case of
plague is surrounded by many comic accessories.
The Board of Health is sure the man was inocu-
lated by a flea from a plague-stricken rat, and
then it enlarges on the point as elaborately as if it
had caught and fully identified said flea and rat.
The latter, according to the Board, had come from
Mauritius in a sugar-cargo, deserted the ship, and
been in turn deserted by one of its parasites,
which took to the unfortunate Payne instead.
And this, at the end of the 19th century, is the
sort of “science” represented by a costly Govern-
ment department manned by picked graduates of
the local ’Varsity ! Rats ! !
“ Gunner ” prophesieth :
The next British surrender will be that of Ladysmith.
The cable-liar says White has plenty of provisions—but
what about men ? The 11,000 he had to begin with, three
months or so ago, have since lost heavily in killed,
wounded and prisoners. Fighting is desperate hard
work, while it lasts; but the long nights on guard or
picket are far more wearing, and every man
who drops out dead, sick, or wounded makes
fewer “ nights off ” for those who remain. That
the Ladysmith strain is almost at breaking-point is
shown by the ease with which the Boers lately surprised
two British pickets. Also disease is raging among
White’s men. And the absence of news from the doomed
camp proves that White is no longer able to attack.
The last hope of relief is gone, too, because blun-
dering Buller has run his wooden head against a
mountain mass which he determined to take at any
cost. When Roberts’s old comrade, White, has been
forced to surrender Ladysmith, it will be interesting to
know what “ Bobs ” thinks about Buller.
The little Bendigo Advertiser believes,
in what it-thinks is its mind, that Murray, of
Warrnambool, because of his opposition to the
sendingof the second Vic. contingent, is “a blot on
the Victorian Legislature.” Yet Murray used the
inalienable British privilege of free speech in the
mildest and most restrained fashion, and in disap-
proving of the war lie ranks with the 130 or more
members of the British House of Commons—and
England doesn’t seem to regard them as blots.
The Australian bigot and lick-spittle is so much
more loyal to Britain than the British jingo is, that
lie would almost hang the British nation for dis-
loyalty to itself. He is in the position of the
Scotch Sabbatarian lady who was so religious that
she “didn’t think much of the Lord ” for walking
in the cornfields on the day of rest.
.Nervous sufferers will find it worth tlieir
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
One “Thomas N. Manly” writes to
Sydney Evening News :
It struck me very forcibly, while buzzing round the
crowd in Market-street, that we are a fairly tolerant
people. But some of these pro-Boerites are very strong.
Some are moved by very peculiar fads, others by bitter
hostility to both Queen and Empire. I draw the line at
insulting women, whether washerwoman or monarch.
But your pro-Boer sticks at nothing. Now, lots of these
very misguided people are in either Government or
municipal employment. Take a departmental list of
names, say, Harbors and Rivers, for instance. You don’t
uant to scan ifc very carefully, and you will open your
eyes. \on shut them, and you may fancy yourself in some
Continental seaport. One of these, living on our money,
expressed himself thus : “ Veil, it vas a bity dose young
vellers schall go to anoder country to find a grave. Vosent
Australia pig enough to die in?” Another, holding a
position on the Defence Force Instruction Staff, was
equally as emphatic in one of our suburbs. I could add
one or two others, all in snug billets. I can give unim-
peached proof of two cases quoted. Yet when any of
these vipers meets with the castigation he deserves, how
quickly he seeks the protection our flag affords to all,
irrespective of creed or color.
And after all it seems that the horrible viper
merely said it was a pity that fine young Austra-
lians should be buried in a far land —which some
of them certainly will be unless, by some extraor-
dinary chance, the ordinary risks of war fail to
come their way. Apparently Thomas N. thinks
their deaths won’t be a pity. And this peaceful,
harmless remark about sudden death being a mis-
fortune is described as an insult to a woman and
something calling for “castigation.” Truly, much
of Australia lias gone mad.


H/\ LF-S 1C K Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed,
PEOPLE. lazy, and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly ; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC T --
Per post, la 3d. SULPHUR PILLS
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
lU
Melbourne: 269 Collins St.
SYDNEY : 4 HUNTER ST.
ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND, &C.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
eisewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
ERRORS IN FOOD AND DRINK.
By a' Specialist.
It is dawning on the public to try and prevent,
or at least to arrest, disease. It is in prevention
that Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Cocoa plays an important
part, acting solely as a first-class nourishing food—
it strengthens the system to resist, oppose, and
overcome the attacks of disease. You’ll hear
someone say, ‘ ‘ So and so has a strong constitution ”
follow that up, and you’ll find that So-and-so
follows the golden rule of being temperate in all
things, and pays attention to diet and exercise.
Does he or she keep up this strong constitution by
taking medicine or swallowing pills ? No, indeed !
They have discovered that prevention is better than
cure. Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa places a means in the
hands of everyone to build up and maintain a
sound constitution, which enables its possessor to
travel his life’s journey without the aches and
pains which are in many cases preventable. Thus
we come round again to sound common-sense
based on experience.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
Chemists, Grocers, and Stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.
Dainty sample free on mentioning this paper.*
The Fountain of Youth,
Nothing to equal it.
ZETZ-SPA WATER.
See that you get ZETZ.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOK ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney.
Dr. M. MACKENZIE’S
THROAT LOZENGES
Are being Imitated.
Be SURE that the address on the Label -
is Leadenhall-st., London.
Sole Agent for
Australasia :
C. E. Newman
King-St., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Ballarat has the honor of owning the first
Victorian war victim. He was killed in a local
pub. for saying he rather admired Oom Paul.
The death of Dean Brennan, of North
Sydney, saves the N.S.W. Treasury £2OO a-year,
just when the money is badly wanted for purposes
of Absent-minded Beggary. The Dean was one
of those pensioned off when State-aid to religion
was abolished in N.S.W. Father Brennan was a
secular priest for many years, and officiated in
many parts of N.S.W., but, late in life, joined the
Jesuits, and died in that Order, at the age of 82.
Demise, Quaritch, of London. The most
considerable, if not the greatest, bookseller ever
known. He bought £33,000 worth of stuff at one
sale,, the Sutherland library, and that is only one
of his many tremendous purchases. Many Aus-
tralians remember him and have had transactions
with him in his wonderful hat. He was long in a
now swamped thoroughfare, Castle-street, off
Leicester Square, and yet was 40 years in Picca-
dilly afterwards.
Paddy Glynn, M.L.A. (S.A.) says that
when he was a boy he had always to take up his
grandmother’s punch (apparently the grandmother
drank); he used to swallow some of it on the road
(apparently he drank also) and in course of time he
became so unreliable in delivering the liquor that
it was ukasedhe should whistle all the way upstairs.
But instead of whistling personally on the stair he
did it by deputy, a small brother being the deputy,
and continued in his evil and alcoholic. course.
Glynn quoted this episode as a reason against the
proposed S.A. law prohibiting the sale of tobacco
to children, but it seems rather to suggest that he
was a most corrupt and dissipated small boy, and
that having since grown up in sin his opinions
should be viewed with distrust as those of a bad
character.
Jacob Garrard, one of the first castaways
from Reid’s political barque, will meet strong
opposition in March next when the Presidency of
the Water and Sewerage Board falls vacant.
Jacob is eligible for reappointment, and would be
a certainty for another term as the well-paid boss
of the department which lets off big blasts in the
streets if “ dear old George ” were still Premier.
Lyne might let it go, for Premiers, knowing their
own weaknesses, look indulgently on the jobs of
predecessors. But there are those behind Lyne
who want to put another man—not so pious as
Jacob—in the billet, and the holy one will pro-
bably have to come out.
G. H. Reid tells interviewers along his line
of holiday march that since he quitted the Premier*
ship his income from bar practice has
been double what it was when he
headed a Government. Also he
makes no secret of his belief in
his early return to office. So
the statement about how
much more profitable it is
to be out of office looks like
G. Reid’s large advt. pasted
on himself.
A very old man in a
certain Australian capital
had been in receipt of
a small weekly dole
from the Govern-
ment for himself and
wife. When money
was wanted for the
Contingent the dole
was stopped, along
with many other
like allowances;
and the couple
were offered ad-
mission to an
asylum. Failing
other means of
getting an in-
terview, the
ancient tottered
round to the
Minister’s house.
After a stormy
interview, said
the Minister: "I
haven’t the pa-
pers here, and
can’t go into it
now. Come to
the office to-mor-
row and I’ll fix
you up.” The
old man did so ;
waited from 11
a.m. till 4 p.m. ;
did not see the
Honorab 1 e
Sphinx, but was
“fixed up” with
a generous and final
donation of ss. That
lion. Sphinx would make
a great strategist.
A far-west correspondent :
Concerning the theory that a bushed man mostly
travels in a circuit because one of his legs is a trifle
longer or stronger than the other, how about the circling
of bushed drivers ? For they do circle. Cameron, over-
seer of Packsaddle, far-west N.S.W., who, along with
storekeeper Hanna, perished about Xmas time, struck a
fence with his pair (they were getting anxious and were
making across country), cut it, and then, probably in the
darkness, got back to it four times ! And Cameron was a
first-rate bushman. Also, on three occasions, travelling
by night, coach-drivers on the far-west plains have taken
writer oif tracks which they should have known every
foot of the way, and have pulled up to find that they
were going clean round. This has generally happened
when they have pulled off to avoid a sand-patc’n.
A country press report alleges that Kate
Kelly sister of bushranger Ned, drowned herself
lately in the Lachlan River. She had married a
groom and was mother of five children.
It seems to be uncertain even now whether
Dibbs damned Chicago or not. Anyhow, the old
man’s shout of “ Curse the Bill! ” at the Sydney
anti-Eederal meeting, the other day, had all the
old vigor about it, and if Chicago hasn't been
damned so far, G. Dibbs is evidently capable even
now of taking on the contract and damning it
thoroughly.
Young Dailey, whose body was brought
from England to be buried with his father,
in Waverley Cemetery, Sydney, is to be modestly
commemorated by a carving on his father’s
tomb. The Dailey dead for the most part
lie apart. The late P.C.’s father and mother lie
in Devonshire-street churchyard, Sydney, and his
wife in the Long vault, in St. Jude’s, Randwick.
Nathaniel Levi, of Victoria’s House of 48
Rich Landlords, says, as a reason why sweating
should not be interfered with in any way, that he
worked long hours when he was a boy, and is none
the worse. That is probably just where Nathaniel
Levi is wrong. Victoria knows him as an old man
with a stunted intellect who is always going to
build a wonderful railway at Cape Patterson and
never doing it. If the stupid and unsympathetic
ancient had worked short hours in his boyhood he
would be a good reason for making every young
Victorian toil 14 hours a day in the hope that he
would grow up as unlike Levi as possible. But if
long hours had anything to do with the production
of Levi then long hours are simply sinful and dis-
astrous. The one safe rule is to bring up young
Victoria the way Levi wasn’t brought up.
General Wauchope, the boss Highland
Brigadier who died t’other side of the Modder
River with “ Don’t blame me for this” on his lips,
was a maternal uncle of Lady Hopetoun. Also
he was the husband, by his first marriage, of
Lord Wolseley’s sister-in-law; likewise a near
relation by birth to numerous gilded swells. A
lot of money is changing hands over the Boer
business, and the deah girls are careful not to
snub impecunious Algernons of high degree these
times. They never know but what an Algy who
is “thrice removed” from a plump estate may
tumble into the property when the lists of slain
are made up. Lord Methuen, lately shot in the
leg and said to be injured in the spine, represents
a private income of £ll,OOO a year. War is a gory
lottery for many “well-connected” people, and
this accounts for not a little jingoism in the
naicest non-combatant circles.
AT THE CORNER.
TOMMY ATKINS (to stranger): “My good man, I
can read your thoughts; I know what you
would like — why, to be a soldier bold, and go
fight the Boers. Now, wouldn’t you? ”
STRANGER : " You’re another! Pm waiting for
the blanky tram, that’s all.”
Grey, the missing Geelong (Vic.) lawyer,
writes that he is a ruined man, employed as a day
laborer in his island retreat, wherever that may
be. Reads like an intimation to possible pur-
suers : “ Don’t come after me. There is no money
in it.”
RECIPROCITY.
HE : “ We can all find something to admire in
each other. For instance, I admire your
beauty. What do you find to admire in me? ”
SHE: “ Your good taste.”
“ Via ” : Another of the Rue Australians,
P. J. MacNamara, journalist, has ceased striving
'o turn humanity in Paraguay, and now works
the Archimedean lever up Nanango, Q. way.
Dr. Newmarch, of North Sydney, now on
his way to S. Africa, was on the staff of King’s
College Hospital, London, at the last Boer war,
and doctored the wounded from Majuba Hill.
The Adelaide Hospital curse ? Dr. Ramsay
Smith, one of the two original imported
doctors, now President of Health Board, is in hot
water over Abe plague trouble, and his col-
league, Leith Napier, was recently thrown from
his horse, and hovers between life and death
through skull-fracture.
“ M.” : Concerning Edmund Barton.
Easily the first conversationalist in Australia, he
is also the brightest listener. Whether Barton’s
large heart or large head is accountable for this is
a matter for speculation. As Barton is always
worth listening to, any break upon his conversa-
tion is unbearable to the rest of the company, who
wish the interruptor would go to bed, or to the
bar. In the wider arena of politics, Barton is not
so tolerant of dull debate. Yet he seldom inter-
jects, no matter how severe the provocation may
be. He scarcely left a sitting of the Convention of
Federal delegates for five minutes. When he
likes, he can be as lazy as a household cat, but
when there’s watching and worlring to be done, he
can be as alert and active as that domestic pet
with business on paw. It is a mistake to think
that Barton despises detail. He takes things
quietly, but he takes them none the less thoroughly
and expeditiously. In his opinions he is perhaps
the sincerest politician in the land, but, not being
an obtrusive faddist, he is sometimes suspected of
indifference. His large tolerance has also a good
deal to do with his reputation for laziness. For-
bearance is apt to be mistaken for weariness of
mind.
One of the O’Sullivan’s fellow-members
writes that vigorous man’s biography :
E. W. O’Sullivan, N.S.W. Minister of Works, was a com-
positor on the Melb. Argus, and came to Sydney as over-
seer of the Daily Telegraph. Became president of
Typographical Union, afterwards president of Wharf
Laborers’ Union and of the Trades and Labor Council.
Ban for West Sydney and got the show of hands in his
favor, which meant much in those days. Refused to
bunch with other candidates, and was just beaten. Took
up the farmers, and invented grievances and remedies for
them —called conferences and made a great mark as an
authority. Ban next for South Sydney and polled well,
but was defeated —only came seventh among nine candi-
dates. Immediately left for Queanbeyan. where he was
elected with a large margin. He has held the seat ever
since—nearly 15 years. Was in Dibbs’ 1891 Cabinet for 48
hours, having been one of the first sent for—but was
ousted when B. E. O’Connor joined. The Catholic ele-
ment looked too strong, and it was necessary to find a place
for Orangeman John Kidd to placate the crowd which
doesn’t use holy water. Is an omnivorous reader, yet
quotes, as he jokes, with difficulty. He was first in the
field with alliteration, though his. claim has be'en jumped
since by pirates. Examples:—“ What we want, Mr.
Speaker, are wharves, wool and warehouses, farms, fac-
tories and foundries,” and “Back from the Moscow of
Ministerial myrmidons,” to the diminished Parkesites of
1891. Is the most active and energetic Minister for
Works since Lyne, and there is no truth in the statement
that a country paper alluded to him by misprint as the
“ Minister for Words.”
The last scene—for the present —of a
romantic episode in the good old Nevill family
has just been played by the marriage of the Earl
of Cottenham to Lady Rose Leigh, daughter
of the Marquis of Abergavenny. In 1866
twin daughters were born to the Marquis
of Abergavenny. The Ladies Violet and Rose
Nevill were "amongst the leading beauties of their
time and in due course were “ presented at court”
on the same day. Both were afterwards presented
very considerably at a different kind of court.
Lady Violet became the Countess Cowley in 1889,
but in a few years was the successful petitioner
for divorce against Earl Cowley. Lady Rose,
Nevill married Mr. J. B. Leigh, and last year was
the respondent in a divorce suit brought by her
husband, who charged her with misconduct with
the Earl of Cottenham, who was eight years her
junior. The private detective employed by the
husband broke into a bedroom at an hotel and
found the ' lady apparently alone, but her com-
panion was afterwards ransacked out of a ward-
robe or closet. A decree was granted, and some
six months afterwards, at the end of last year, the
juvenile Lothario made what reparation he could
to his frisky inamorata of maturer years by
making her Countess of Cottenham. The old
Markis has had a bit of bad luck with one of his
sons, too, in the past year ; the boy, a thoughtless
married lad of 40, got into trouble—a large stone-
built trouble —over some matters connected with
negotiable paper.
Bishop Anderson, of Riverina, like
other C.E. Bishops in Australia, has suffered
sorely in the region of his episcopal pocket-
book, all through unfortunate investments of
the diocesan funds. When he reached Mel-
bourne from England, where he was conse-
crated, he learned that £lOOO of the episcopal
fund had disappeared. When he reached Syd-
ney he discovered that the lost cash was £3OOO.
i’hey had been breaking it gently to him, and
soon after the loss was admitted to be still
greater. Further, those who had
charge of the fund promised to
pay back the expenses he incurred
in going to England for consecra-
tion ; but, by the time his apron-
ship handed in vouchers showing
.he trip ran to £3OO, it had been
liscovered that the funds couldn’t
stand the shock. The first
year’s salary was guaranteed
to be £lOOO, but it only
panned out for £4OO. “ I am
m great mental pain,” said the
disillusioned bishop.
Judge Cohen (N.S.W.) is
the only member of the
Supreme or District Courts
who defies fashion and the
accursed tall hat, and appears
on the block in a “boxer” or
hard-liitter.
The late Pavkes’ magnum op ms — “Fifty
of the Making,” &c.— published at 165.,
may now be had in some places in Sydney for a
half-crown or so.
“ Melb.” : Our Public Library trustees
have just secured, at a high figure, a full reprint
of the trial of Edward Gibbon Wakefield for the
ibduotion of Miss Ellen Turner. His after fame
as a S.A. and Maoriland coloniser gives the record
some value. The case is curious. Miss Turner,
aged 16, was an heiress, and Wakefield served
three years in gaol for his escapade.
“ F.O. ” : The most painfully rabid Jingo
I have bumped up against so far in Melbourne is
a middle-aged public servant of exceptionally
placid exterior and soothing aspect. To enhance
the incongruity of the matter he hails from County
Clare —of all places. Not satisfied with wanting
the summary execution, when the war is over, of
Kruger, Steyn, and Schreiner, he says he fully ex-
pects the British Govt, to deport all the remain-
ing Boers, to prohibit the language, and abolish
all Dutch names. When I smiled he said I was
an insulting brute and a Boer myself, and that I
was gloating over the British in their hour of
peril. These jingoes are distressingly serious and
sober-minded.
The Asiatic’s threatening method of adver-
tising for a billet—from North Coolgardie (W.A.)
Herald
TTASSAM GOOLAM, who has been in the employ of
LI the following gentlemen :—David Lindsay for.
one week, as camel driver : Albert Thomas, for three
months as camel driver : one month for Randell &
Go., Coolgardie ; 25 days for Alanah ; three years for
Charlie Chewing : one year and six months for Mr.
Gourley, Mandurah, S.A. ; three months for J.
Blouche, Cue ; six months for East Murchison G.M.
Co., Mt. Magnet ; three months for Mr. Callaghan,
Lawlers : one year and six months for Astrooifatter,
Argus Springs, S.A. : five years camel driving all over
the Eastern goldfields ; one month in Southern Cross
Hospital : resident of Karrachi, India, for ten years.
My father and mother’s address is Chakiwallahi,
India. I now seek employment in hotel, or as camel
driver. Only accept position where salary is sure.
Any Afghan, any Indian, any Beloochee, any white
MAN, OR OTHERS CAUSING ME TROUBLE WILL BE GIVEN IN
charge. I never trouble anybody. Apply, by lette*
this office. —Signed.— Hass am Goolam.
A Queenslander on Glassey :
That eminent Radical and superlative patriot, Thomas
Glassey, is at it again. Apparently possessed of the idea
that it is his bounden duty to demonstrate his loyalty at
any cost to other.people, he rushed forward the other day
with a joyful proposition that all employers of labor and
also Under-Secretaries in the public service should place
Patriotic Fund subscription-lists under the noses of their
employes, and try to exact from them a day’s pay for the
cause of bloodshed. It is curious to note the various
grades by which the Radical-Tory chameleon changes his
hue. You commence by apologising for Tozer and be-
slobbering Ricardo, and you wind up by suggesting that
the civil service be coerced indirectly into subsidising 1 the
cause of the Transvaal capitalist-butchers. No one has
been more severe in the past on this custom of levying a
compulsory toll on the State servants than has Thomas
Glassey, but a mighty metamorphosis has been working
of late in the brain-pan of that erratic individual. It is,
however, gratifying to. note that many respectable Con-
servative employers of labor in Bananaland have refused
to adopt the above-mentioned pitiful means of demon-
strating their loyalty, being content to plank down their
own subscription at their own pleasure, and leaving others
to do the same or not, as they feel inclined.
“T.J.” tells how he met a king :
In the early ’7o’s much bullion used to be bought by
branch banks and sent to their head offices in Sydney,
and on different occasions it was writer’s duty to go with
the Govt, escort to the mint and check delivery of the
gold. Arriving once with a particularly heavy load 1 had
just got it all lifted on to the counter w'hen a door behind
the counter opened and to my astonishment the room
filled with darkies, conspicuous among them an immense
man with no head-covering but thick, grizzled hair. ; his
huge body clad in a white shirt and a sort of skirt arranged
so as to leave the right knee bare and fall to the ankle bn
the left leg. His feet w r ere bare, and in his left hand he
had a staff about five feet long. I assumed that the mint
had been seized by colored bushrangers, and resolved that
if they-wanted the gold very badly they' could have jt.
We had just lifted the largest ingot on to the counter when
this big man stretched out his arm and gripped it, but,
though it was only about the size of a brick, it weighed
over 2001b5., and he didn’t shift it at first try. Then the
muscles stood out on arm and chest, his neck swelled, his
eyes reddened, and up went the ingot. Then he put it
dow T n and strode out of the room followed by the rest.
And when next day I read of the “ visit of Thakambau
and suite to the mint,” I knew I had seen a king.


For
that
Tired
Feeling
take
WOLFES
” SCHNAPPS.
■' The Favorite and Best Summer Drink m
FRANZ JOSEF LAOER,
SEE THAT
YOU GET IT.
Look for
Genuine
FRANZ JOSEF
on Neck Label.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
In a South Queensland court the other day
the weary J.P. had to personally swear a witness
in a plain drunk case. The printed form of oath
wasn’t on the premises, and the J.P.’s memory
was defective, but he did his best. • “The evidence
you give shall be the truth. God strike you dead.
What’s your name?” Later he consulted the
policeman. “I suppose a gory bob would be
about the right thing ?” he inquired. The police-
man concurred, and the fine was one gory bob. It
was in the same court that a medical J.P. was
once hunted up at the last moment, as the only
man available to fine the morning crop of drunks.
The doctor had had a very wet night himself, and
in the middle of the evidence he dozed off. There
was a long pause. The evidence stopped. The
cop. didn’t like to shake his worship up, and
after a weary interval was just deciding to fine
u h rn,? risoners himself when his worship woke.
This case, he said solemnly in a thick voice,
“is evidently one of inflammation of the bowels!
The defendant’’—here he glared at the dock—
“must have a hot compress applied over the
abdomen.” Then he fell asleep again, and there
was a great silence broken only by the blue-bottle
that buzzed in the unconscious bench’s ear.
LONELY.
CONSTABLE: “ Phwat’s yer throuble, ma mahn?"
BILL THE DROVER : “ Lorst me mate.”
CONSTABLE: " He'll be in th’ lock-up loikely.
Phwat’s his naame an’ description?”
BILL : “ Warriyal—’bout four year old—tail got
white tip—wall eye, and best 'eeler on th'
Castlereagh.”
Letter from the son of a bush-policeman :
“ There’s two drunken men fightin’ down at the Blazin’
Stump, an’ Mrs. Casey wants some of the police to go
down.” That’s the message Casey’s groom brought to pa
as he was enjoying a smoke, the other evening. Pa don’t
smoke, as a rule, but he’d run-in a drunken shearer that
morning, and, among other things, had found a pound of
tobacco and a new pipe. Being an energetic officer, and
always on the look-out for a case, pa got his handcuffs and
revolver and made for the Blazing Stump. He found one
man asleep under the horse-trough, and the other was
trying to impress the awful blank dash dryness of the
Australian climate on a cattle-dog, and inviting the dog
to comeanavadrink. Pa responded on behalf of the dog,
and, when the other man paid for the drinks, pa arrested
him for being drunk and disorderly, and proceeded to run
hunm. Pa got hold of the man by the belt and the dog
got hold of pa below the belt behind, and tore his trou-
sers ; pa kicked the dog and it let go. The drover lay
down and would not move—he said if they wanted to run
him in they’d blanky well have to carry him. Pa twisted
his arm and hit him with the handcuffs, "but he wouldn’t
budge Mrs. Casey suggested they get the barrow from
the stable, and sent the groom for it. The groom emptied
SKETCHED FROM LIFE.
The privileged Outlanders of a Sydney penny 'bus-stable, and moments of relaxation in the life
of a 'bus-horse.
the manure out and brought it round. When they lifted the
drover in a half-sov. fell out of his boot. Pa said he’d mind
it till the drover came out of jug. They heard someone
singing “We won’t go home till morning ” just as they
got near the lock-up. It was the Police Magistrate and
the bank manager. They had been celebrating the open-
ing of the new church, and the banker was taking the
P.M. home, so that he could sober up to attend Court in
the morning. Pa logged the drover, but he only found a
pocket-knife on him, so he gave it to me. When the P.M.
asked the charge against the drover next morning, pa
said, “ Drunk and resisting the police and tearin’-me-uni-
form, your worship.” “ Prisoner at the bar, you ought to
be ashamed of yourself. I’m disgusted with you. Why
can’t you have a drink and be done with it, instead of
making a beast of yourself in this way ? You are fined £5
or three months. The constable deserves great praise for
bringing such brutes as you here.” After the Court was
dismissed pa took the P.M. over to the pub. and shouted
for him ; he paid with the half-sov. he got from the
drover. Pa and the Postmaster took the P.M. home that
night. He pulled his wife out of bed and locked her up
in the wash-house. Next morning he gave a hawker six
months for ill-treating a horse.
*** * *
“ E.F.8.” : It was in the early days of
Hannan’s (W.A.). Old Dick had died of fever,
and we, his mates, were hard put to it to bury him
decently ; but Dave, having been a carpenter,
managed to knock up out of old meat-cases a rude
sort of coffin. Then we borrowed the only obtain-
able vehicle—a storekeeper’s dray ; and having in-
structed Dave to go round by the left of the allu-
vial working, we started off to walk to the grave.
Jim and Bill had finished digging the melancholy
receptacle when we arrived, so we all sat on the
new-made heap and smoked while we waited for
Dave and the remains. An hour passed, and then
another, and still no Dave, no dray, no remains.
Then we thought it was about time to investigate,
and off we started. When we reached the pub.
the publican told us Dave had called in two hours
before, had a couple of whiskies, and had taken a
bottle with him to keep his spirits up. We
began to “ tumble ” ; but while we were consider-
ing what to do we heard the sound of wheels and
Dave’s voice admonishing the moke to get along
faster and not be “a blanky funeral all his life.”
“ Where have you been ? What have you done
with the corpse ?” we shouted at him as he came
up and we saw that the cart was empty. ‘ ‘ The
(hie) corpsh ? ” said Dave solemnly. “Oh (hie),
he’sh all ri’ : couldn’ be (hie) better ! He’sh
happy ash a (hie) san’boy!” “But where, you
fool!” we all said together. “What have you
done with him ? ” “Done with him ? Why, the
blanky (hie) shun got on ’im ; so I just loosened
the (hie) tailboard an’ dumped ’im. ’E’s all ri’,
’e is ! ” “Well, come along and show us where he
is,” said I. But Dave had “gone down to it ” ;
the whisky had beaten him, and he was dead to
the world. Well, we hunted round and round,
but never found the coffin ; and when we got
Dave sober, He had no more idea than we where
he had left the defunct, so we filled in the grave,
and on the side of a meat-case inscribed, “ Sacred
to the memory of Dick M'Cansh. Died Jan. 7,
1892. IRequiescat in —wherever he was dumped.”
And where he was dumped is a mystery to this
day.
* * * *
“Jimmy P.” : Said the roughrider from
Bust-my-Gall: “ The absoblankyjumpinglutely
worst bucker I ever see wizz a horse, ‘ Johnny the
Rdots.’ We gottim orf Yeller Rock Station, which
is terrible mountain-e-ous. No mistake th’orse
wizz a holy terror. I’ve saw horses buck longer
and louder; but I never see a horse buck ’igher.
One Yeaster, a new-chum bobby got on’nim out-
side the lock’kup, an’, flash-like, he ripped th’ooks
in ; then there wizz circus. Th’orse kept goin’ till
he bucked above th’ telegraft-wire; an’ wen he
wizz cornin’ daown he got all tangled dup with th’
wires like a ’roo in a wire-fence. We ’ad ta cut
th’ wires ta git him an’ th’ bobby daown. They
wizz nearly a court-case over th’ cuttin’ of th’
wires—but wat could we a-done ? ”
* * * *
Re children’s luck. A squatter in Wagga
district had a four-year-old daughter with a
habit of getting up early and running barefoot in
the garden until captured and dressed for break-
fast. _ As she had been seen on several occasions
making for a secluded place, where she remained
in unaccustomed quiet, mischief was suspected,
and she was quietly followed. The watcher was
horrified to find her quietly rolling a 4-foot brown
snake over and over with her bare foot. The rep-
tile seemed to be having a good time, and remained
quiescent The pastoralist promptly killed him
as a warning to the next snake to bite quickly and
get away, and not play the benevolent reptile
with any squatter’s daughter.
* * * *
“Eller”: Bullock teams are unable to
travel in N.W. Queensland owing to the drought.
Food, in some places, is being sent by parcel post.
A chest of tea sent in this manner cost £7 3s. 6d.,
nearly twice the value of tea. Some day, perhaps,
a method of sending victuals by telegraph will be
discovered, and then if the rate isn’t po ibitive
the backblocks will become almost habitable:
“ Malle ” : Re Chisholm, the “ Smasher ”
(8., 8/4/’99), there was once up Wagga way a whole
family with a similar penchant. Two of them
went into a crack Melb. pub. where there was a
gorgeous chandelier, and one bet the other a case
of champagne he’d smash the lot with two blows
of a stick. Won the fizz at a cost of £5O. Another
time, after one of them had smashed everything in
the bar of a country pub., the publican intimated
that he was not yet wrecked, and wanted to be
badly, whereupon they sailed in, with result that
the smasher had some difficulty in collecting
enough of himself to sign a cheque with after-
wards. Again, in Riverina there was a “ bodiless
woman ” showing, and a gang of youthful pas-
toralists bonneted the doorkeeper, rushed the
stage, smashed up all the “fakes,” and scooted.
No performance that night, but next day came a
cheque to cover damage and probable receipts. A
wealthy local squatter, hearing of the matter, said
he was sorry the scoundrels hadn’t been arrested
and brought before him. He’d have given them
three months without the option. His own sons
were the ringleaders. One of these frolicsome
youths another time rode into the principal local
pub., smashed the hall-light with his whip, and
then, still mounted, chased the marker round the
billiard-table.
* » * *
‘ ‘ Malle ”: The Australian bullocky isn’t in
it for cuss language with the Constantinople
Greek. While the Russo-Turkish war was on,
writer’s ship was about to sail from the Golden
Horn, and the provedore sent off a load of vege-
tables in a gorgeously carved caique. Somehow,
no one was on hand to throw the boatman a rope,
and in fending off he jammed his thumb. Then
he announced in lurid language his intention of
taking the greenstuff ashore again, but when it was
hinted by the display of a “ gun ” that he’d better
not, he remained and remarked, “you gota revol-
vare ! you shoota ” —unpublishable remark—“ We
taka tree year cava my bot-smasha longside your
crimson Inglusha sheep, smasha my asterisk turn
too, &c., &Ci.” But not till after the load was
cleared and he had pulled out of pistol range, did
he really let himself loose. After hoping the
Russians would “sinka” us to gory sheol, he
went on to reflect upon the morals of our female
relatives and of Englishwomen in general from
Queen Victoria down, winding up with an assur-
ance that, as far as that august personage was
concerned, he intended to go to England forth-
with, and personally remove any morals 3he had
left—only he put it a lot more briefly.
• • • •
“C.R.” : In reply to “ Werrimee ”
(6/1/19C0): The “ brush ” kangaroo has just as
well defined tracks as the wallaby. Writer
alludes to the Tasmanian “brush.” The
wallaby is smaller and darker than the
kangaroo; his fur is softer, and his tail
more stumpy in regard to his size. The
kangaroo frequents open forests with in-
tervals of scrub; whilst the wallaby keeps
constantly to thick undergrowth. Hun-
dreds of kangaroos were caught yearly in
Tas. by means of track snares ; and writer
has frequently shot them on their runs after
sundown. He has never seen foresters’
tracks on the mainland except at water-
holes ; and “ Werrimee ” probably alludes to
these latter animals.
Dear Bulletin.—The bushman who
is “ a sure shot with the rifle at 800 yards
or so ” is a bigger myth than the bunyip.
Many buslimen shoot well up to 200yds.—
300yds. is their extreme limit. The daily
papers are highly amusing if not instructive
just now. — Dodd Mobb.
Scene : Back-yard of North Coast town
hotel. Publican and blackfellow present.
Blackfellow persistently begging for some beer,
and request at last granted to the extent of a
quart, provided recipient will lie on his back and
allow the beer to be poured down his throat.
Darkie joyfully agrees, whereupon publican brings
out liquor, and poising the jug at a height of four
feet proceeds to pour it like a brown cataract into
the darkie’s countenance. Beer goes down as if
into a sink—none being spilt. Then sable gentle-
man arises cheerfully with remark : “By ,
Joe, y’oughter shout for a fella’ now/”
• « * •
Dear Bulletin.— The cure for a biting
horse: Break his jaw with an axe ! Then break
his head and his back. —J.A.C.
Dear Bulletin. —Re your par. (Bulletin’
30/12/’99) on falls of earth in mines being most
frequent about 1 or 2 a.m. I was up in
(North Island, ALL.) last winter, and this very
question came up for discussion among the miners.
Various theories of a startling nature were pro-
pounded. The one that brought down the house
was invented by an old identity miner. He was
of opinion that there was a “ kink ” in the earth’s
“axle, ' which caused a jar every night when it
came round—just after midnight. This should
annex the crumpet.— Angus Lynden.
* * * *
The lyre-bird seems slowly but surely
dying out, although protected by law. Only a
few years ago, by taking a ramble through the
gullies on the Blue Mountains, you could see
dozens. Now you are lucky if you see one in a
week or so.
“ Albion Park ” : Once, in Riverina,
chased a rabbit into a log. Then sent in a tiny
THE DINNER'S RETREAT.
UNEXPECTED PARISHIONEB (pupping up): “Hol-
loa! You're surely not off already. Don’t
you know it's the chiefs birthday, and there's
going to be a big dinner?”
PARSON : “ Yes I Exactly! That's why I'm.
clearing. I was to be the second course.”
terrier—used to carry him in my pocket—to look
rabbit up, and never again saw that dog alive.
Heard him give a couple of yelps. Hung around
for three hours, and called until I was “black in
the face.” Next day, split log open, and found
only a thundering big gohanna, that looked as
though he’d just come from a banquet. Opened
him, and got both rabbit and dog. The rabbit
was nearest to the reptile’s tail, and the dog must
have gone right in after him.
THE CONVERT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw her off, a bouncing, brown-eyed miss
With Puritanic brows,
And sighed to think of sweetness such as this
Devoted to the Chows.
She strove to turn the heathen from his sin,
His god 3 of earthenware,
And at the mission helped to swell the din
Of misdirected pray’r.
In pretty pigeon-English she would plead
With Fat, or Lo, or Ling,
Quaint mysteries from the prophets did she read ;
In riddles she would sing.
She drew Won Lung to seek the Christian goal,
With rapture none should share.
He was her own dear convert, and his soul
Was her especial care.
The pagan smiled, but bent a willing ear,
Or breathed a subtle sigh,
And when she pleaded squoze a vagrant tear,
And murmured—“ Welly ni 1”
She knelt instructing him—poor simple Ruth,
Most prim of all the band—
And blandly Won embraced the “ Christian ” truth
He did not understand.
This happened years ago. The other day
I walked in Little Bourke,
And saw the suave Celestial Lung at play,
And pretty Ruth at work.
Won trifled with his dominoes. My stare
Provoked a friendly nod.
Within his Ruth was dusting with much care
A fiendish Chinese god.
SILAD SNELL.
JIM JAMIESON, OF TRING ABAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jim Jamieson
Of Tringabar
By everyone
Both near and far
Was known to be the meanest man
That e’er sold sawdust mixed with bran ;
He had a stiff -
Kneed mangy moke,
Which looked as if
Its heart was broke ;
A nag of vener-able age
But questionable parentage.
Now this same Jim
One morning hot,
Selected him
A gun and shot,
And cantered off to try to shoot
Some wandering hare or bandicoot.
And when so far
Arrived as the
Particular
Locality
Where, game abounds, he tied his horse
But just beyond a watercourse.
“ You beast,” he said
“ You landed me
Upon my head
This morning; see,
No food or drink with my consent
Until to-night, for punishment.”
He stalked away;
With anxious eye
His famished steed
Observed near by
A juicy pile (delicious sight!)
Of cartridges, marked “ Dynamite.”
One dubious sniff
And they had passed,
Gulped down as if
The region vast
Where they repbsed had ne’er before
Partaken such ambrosia.
When Jim arrived
His gallant steed,
Although deprived
Of grassy feed,
Bulged slightly ; on his bony side
He lay, prostrate but satistied.
A curse, a whack,
An angry snort,
A rumble ; and
A loud report!
Now o’er the plains of Tringabar
Jim Jamieson lies scattered far.
PAN.


WHAT IS “D.C.L.”?
“ D.C.L.” is a brand applied to whisky, and is a
guarantee of genuine merit, of good value, and of
a pure and wholesome spirit. Ask for “D.C.L.”
(Black Bottle) Scotch.*
Arthur Griffith (Fellow Aust. Instit.
Patent Agents, and Member Patent Law Assoc.,
Washington, U.S.A.), 169 Phibip-street, Sydney.
Patents secured and Trade Marks registered
throughout the world. Tel. 2898.*
Arthurßussell, American dentist, BBourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
perations*
When anybody anonymous contributes a
big sum to the “Patriotic” or “Bushmen”
funds, the name is certain to be revealed to all and
sundry within seven days. It is a good advertise-
ment, and reminds one of the newspaper
intimation: —“Watch this space—an important
announcement next week.” But the anonymous
subscriber whose name leaks out with a shriek on
the housetops gets extra credit—for his alleged
modesty in allegedly trying to keep it from
leaking.
DIAMOND
JEWELLERY
We have just opened another choice shipment of the most
approved designs from London.
These goods are made up from Diamonds bought before the
late rises in the price of the gems, and hence are now
phenomenal value.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Brooch or Pendant, 50 Guineas.
We have an immense
Stock of loose Diamonds.
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
For Bilght, Inflammation, Granulation and
all affections of the eye use an infallible remedy. Hick-
son’s Celebrated Eye Water has for many years proved
its worth. Effectual when doctors fail. Perfectly harm-
less. Highest testimonials. Post free to any address,
2s. 6d. R. Hickson, Rockdale, N.S. VV. Agents wanted.*
“APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty,
and the Obese. Apply- to Chemists for “Regimen
for the Obese” Card, published by the Apollinaris
Company, Ltd., London.*
ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
For the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling atnd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
‘ Yarrum ” on the endless snake-yarn and
its innumerable ramifications: H. J. M ‘Gooey
says they only bite. I say they both strike and
bite. When in a hurry, and the object is getting
away, they strike. That dog, jumping over a
tussock, was struck. Had he sat on it, he’d have
been bitten. Again, only venomous snakes can
strike. I’ve seen, slain, and studied too many of
’em, not to know a bit about their ways. Knew a
shepherd named McCabe at Braidwood, who was
struck fatally by a black snake, going at a terrific
rate, with a dog in pursuit. (The Bulletin begins
to wish that snakes had never been invented.)
“Yarrum” : Con-
nolly was a terror for
pigs ; and one Sunday
morning, when I had
“dropped in ” for a look
at the twins, “ Come and
see the new pig,” said
Connolly. We went
out, and all the girls fol-
lowed. The pig didn’t
seem to care about it,
but I had to see him all
round, and the old
woman roused him up
with a stick. The girls
all said he was a
“beauty,” and “Bid-
dy ” said : “You know,
sorr, I raley luvs ’em.
Whoy, in the Ould
Counthry we used to
shleep soide by soide at
the foire.” One day,
driving by in a hurry,
Connolly, with his
mouth full of spud,
rushed out of the hum-
py, and shouted, “Hi!”
Pulled up, and he asked
me to “ come and have a.
look at the pig.” Went
into the yard, and had
another look. Then he
got the steelyard and
weighed the pig. I had
my white waistcoat de-
stroyed holding him up
to it. He went 1741b5. I
missed the train. Again
it was Sunday morning
at church. Connolly and
I were well at the back.
kneeling in prayer, when all at once he looked
round to me, and, in a hoarse whisper, said :
“You haven’t seen the pig _ lately! ” 1 thought
I’d have died. When the animal reached 2001 b
he was weighed every second day—Connolly
killed him ; and I was glad, although he forgot to
send along some of the pork.
# * * *
“Eller’’ : Consider the tracks ants make
from their hill to the nearest tree where they feed.
Track at sight might be mistaken for a sheep
path, a thin bare strip through the grass It must
take ants years to tread it down, considering their
size and weight.
A BIG “BUST.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wildest bust I ever struck,” the lean old bushman
said,
44 as run up by a gentleman they christened Heavy Ned.
A sperior sort o’ person—which they often is the
worst—
4Vith Gehenner an' the Tropics planted in him fer a thirst.
To try an’ quench that thirst by pourin’ liquor in his
shirt
4Vas like a-irrigatin’ the Sahara with a squirt.
He went out on a bust one time, an’ when the devils
come
He scooted for the plain with ’arf a yard o’ Hogan’s rum.
An there he held his jamboree fer fourteen days, I
swear,
An jim-jams swarmed from all the world like locusts in
the air.
It was a noble levee. In the middle of a ring
Ned sat in state, receivin’ of his jim-jams, like a king.”
“ Two weeks ?” a doubter murmured—“ Why, he’d starve.
What did he eat ? ”
“He caught the fantods,” said Old Jim, “ an’ ate the
beggars neat.”
“ The fantods ? Rats ! They wasn’t real.” The old man
answered : “ Sew
Of course, they wasn’t real, my lad, but how was he to
know ? ”
SILAS SNELL.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will he taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
B.Y. : Yes, it is stated that at Ladysmith the
Transvaal generals put the Free Staters in front —also
that the latter, while holding their ground, jeered at the
Transvaal Boers as they bolted past them towards the
rear. How the man at the back could bolt past the man
in front while making for the rear wasn’t explained
Henry H.A. : Too many “Tommy” poems just now, so
the Tommy poem that isn’t first-rate gets left Myopia :
Will endeavour to put the thrilling yarns in larger type.
... .E.W.D. : Your learned dissertation oh the end of the
century makes our bead whirl and causes us to see spots
and giraffes. Will argue when the weather is c001er....
R.F.L. : Will use. Thanks... .Queenslander : The Queens-
land Assembly passed the New Guinea vote with Dick-
son’s assurance that part of it was to be applied to reim-
bursing the Somers Vine Papuan syndicate’s expenses.
And one paper, anyhow, reported Dickson as saying that
the other Premiers, bar Lyne, had agreed to contribute.
Probably you didn’t read the item. It only occupied a
few lines Molly M. : Pretty little verses enough,
but only of “Elegant Extract” calibre Hair-
dresser : Prize - fighter Jeffries is a white man....
Trotter : Sounds a little like an advt. for local coach
proprietor... .An Englishman who is Ashamed of his
Country: Thanks for letter... .Butler : Tiie Bulletin is
weary of pointing out that, as a single century doesn’t
finish till the end of its 100th year, and as 1800 years are
exactly 18 centuries —1899 is obviously 1890 plus only 99-
lOOths of a century. The 20th century, therefore, will
not commence till the remaining 100th (the present year,
1900) has been completed.... Ileloise A.: Much better
now; will probably print... .A. M. : Amended version to
hand Bushy : You ask: “If a little dog persistently
barks at a big dog, what happens ? ” Well, if a big dog
persistently conies and lives in a little dog’s yard and
insists on bossing the yard, what ought to happen?... ,E.
Hack : Poem not good enough. Besides, Saltbush Bill is
Banjo’s exclusive property P.F.: “Your paper ran-
out.” Thank Heaven !. -.Cuthbert P.: Fairly good work,
but the “ mistaken identity ” situation is too well-worn.
V.C. : You have some poetic feeling, but in these
prosaic days even bards are expected to spell pretty
decently. “Propituous” and “ prescence ” are too un-
A DIFFERENCE,
CUSTOMER: “You Chlistian, John?"
CONVERTED JOHN: “No feah-Plesbytelian me!"
convention..! John E. : You take the gentle Rudyard
too seriously ; and whatever the sentiment of your coun-
terblast may be worth, the execution is clumsy and
feeble... .Australian (No. 2): Sorry quite unsuitable
M.B. : Pleasing style, but the compromising letter
device is very old and weary H.0.G.: Too
crude....L. de B. : Is it a nightmare, or what?
Frank L. : Not a bad study; may use
H.M.N. : Thanks. Communicate with Bulletin account-
ant about the one printed Herbert E. : Peremptorily,
“Send cheque.” Well, the things are rubbish! Is that
“check” enough for you? Australian: Could
hammer neither rhyme nor reason out of it S.O’B. :
Certainly, every man has a right to his opinions ; but, on
the other hand, every State has the right to refuse to
employ its declared and proven enemies. The trouble
comes in the impudent assumption of every ignorant
Jack-in-office that his opinions are the test of what is
inimical to the State J.B. : Well meant, but'this verse
would kill any “ poem” :
Anti-War : Pleased to meet you San Reno : Thanks
for cutting Iveim : Don’t know for certain whether
you mean “ two legs ” to rhyme with “afterwards,” but it
certainly isn’t to be done Cod. Fish : Many thanks
Claypan: Rough piece of work M is: Cupid, you
mean. Well written ; will consider....Lendee : “ Camp,”
lively ; may use L.P. : Some skill, bu rather too much
spun out for the interest.... Paul C.: Not nearly up to our
mark, yet not wholly unpromising Daisy: Pathetic
little thing, but too schoolgirly for Bulletin Pan :
Doesn’t pan-out well enough... .F.N.: Slight want of tech-
nique, but both worth considering... .A.A.A. : May do—
with a little pruning Hack: Not worth print....
Pelican : You say the Christian era began with the year 0.
It didn’t. It began at the beginning of the year 1. It
was one year old at the end of the year 1. It was 100
years old at the end of the year 100. Therefore it will be
1900 years old at the end of the year 1900. If the
GEORGE LEAKE, Q.C., M.P., Federal Leader
and Leader of Opposition (Western Australia),
Photo. , Greenham & Evans, Perth, W.A.
Christian era began with the year 0, how old was it at the
end of the year 0? Ben Sun : None brilliant: “Toll
Bar ” kept for further consideration. Boko : Precisely :
it’s the money squeezed out of the bushmen with the one
hand, that is flung with the other to equip the so-called
bushmen’s contingents Carlton : One good item among
them... Kanga : Thanks... Elizabeth : Feeble little effort...
Kiwi : Unintelligible, simply... .A.G.W. : Snake-yarn not
up. “Boots” some humor but lacks terseness....W. :
You took it too seriously ; that was only our “ little way.”
.. . .Zebra : Shows good knowledge of subject, but lacks
life and movement and ends feebly R. D.W. : Would
require too much patching-up.... Geo. S. : Can’t screw
any meaning out of it.... E.8.R.: Not quite strong
enough H.M.L. : Both doubtful, will weigh H.A. :
Has merit, but too long-drawn out... .June : Too much
of the tyro in it. Try to find a less beaten track....
F. Marks ; Good story, but has been already told in Bul-
letin .... E. J.B. : Poem lamenting over the dead British
soldier because his clothes would probably be so much torn
before he was killed as to be valueless strikes us as
novel. This paper has felt kind of sorry for the dead
Tommy, but it never thought of weeping over the tearing
of the dead Tommy’s uniform.... E. A. P. : When a woman
is right, she is right is a wrong sort of way F.E.S. : A
weak little yarn... .M.A. : Same old yarn of the woman
who is going to have a Past. It makes us tired....
Phillip: “ A Leave-taking ” has left suddenly....“ Those
Bloomers ” : Verse is long where it should be short and
short where it should be 10ng... .Narranghi Boori: Senti-
ment is better than metre, but we hereby try a bit
of it on the dog :
When you’ve shouted “ Get yer hair cut 1”
And you’ve said “ What ho ! she bumps”;
And the frenzy of the kettle-drum is waning;
When your mind is more collected,
And you’ve suddenly detected
That you haven’t brought your gingham and it’s raining.
There’s a fellow wearing patches
With a pluck that overmatches
All the nerve required in battle, where it’s glorious to die.
Well, you see him daily, hourly,
And he’s seldom looking sourly—
Go, find him out, and send him “ half-a-caser on the sly.”
It would be all right if only “hair cut” rhymed with
“ bumps ” a trifle better A. 0.8. : But how often must
it be pointed out that apprehensions for drunkenness are
the loosest of all possible data for determining the preva-
lence of drink ? The numbers of the police, their em-
ployment on other classes of work, a wave of special
attention to this class of offence, and hundreds of
other considerations, make the mere group of caught and
caged beer-eaters a misleading instead of a guiding index
to the drunkenness or sobriety of a city.... The Lyre :
“Night Out” shaky in syntax, and otherwise not quite
up. “ Providence ” too loose and sloppy... .Sinner : The
beginning spoils it. You might re-write Stonecrop :
Pass .bly written, but no Australian interest Camiro :
“ Caught” doesn’t quite catch 0n....E.E;M. : Allegories
are out of Bulletin’s line Wandering Willie : Wan-
der further, William.... Glim : Dowsed... .Pete W. :
Weepful humor and wildly-hilarious pathos.... Lewker :
You should spell it “Lucre” and prefix “ Filthy.”
The Other Fellow : Received with thanks... .L..J.C. : Will
use “Dry” with some slight alterations Fleetwood:
A sickening tale. May cut down and disinfect....
D.M.D. : Good lines here and there, but mostly common-
place ode to nice gir1....01d Guard: Difficult subject,
and wants more skilful handling Jarty : Mostly the
bald and oft-repeated assertion “ ’Tis sweet to know my
Genevieve.” No doubt it is, but the fact lacks public
interest L. Colonna : Will print “Quigley.” Tim
B. : “ Baby ” gambols are all flounders. Story as .heavy
as the ruins of Nineveh A.F.B. : You ask her. to
“yield that heart those eyes”—“those lips”—
“those arms”—and stop just as you’re getting interest-
ing. The rest is untutored emotion... .Glenview : “ The
wild wide birdspecked ocean ” was the only thing
which interested us, and one birdspeck won’t cover
all that tame expanse W.R. : Many thanks
H.M. : Not bad; may see the light J.G.: A mere
bagatelle S.R.T. : Not enough in it Akarana : Well-
written, but rather too wordy for Bulletin Duffer W. :
Humorous, but lacking in literary skill Eric: Erotic
and erratic and generally unsatisfactory Lyre : “Mam-
mom” feeble; “Gratitude” a shade stronger, but still
much below the mark.... Phill : You evidently suppose
Sydney’s in Victoria. Verses have some merit, but hardly
enough for B A.L. : “Ouida ”is a woman (Louise de la
Ramee). (2) there is but one kind of lightning, though the
form varies much ; and “sheet ’’.lightningis but ordinary
lightning at a great distance. (3) invidious to particularise.
Any of the well-known firms can be depended 0n....
Tim Bobbin : Crushed an awful lot of manuscript and
only got a few colors Gestor : Medical joke too awful.
The other may do Henriette : False-teeth joke older
than Groom, of Toowqomba. Austral Aster : “ Plain
English ” article, “ A Lost Opportunity,” in Bulletin of
23/12/’99, covers the same idea Tolerance (Romsey,
Vic.) : Don’t worry. The Bulletin wants to be fired out
of every School of Arts and public reading-room in Aus-
tralasia. Its business instincts revolt against a system
whereby one sixpenny copy does for 100 to 1000 people.
... .Geo. P.: Thanks... .Tired Tommy : Received.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Bill E. Kan : “ Public-house Dining” too complicated..
Hal. M. : Neither usable E.M. (Parkes) : One sketch
will do with some improvement.
“Gunner’ - : More self-repetition of his-
tory. Cabled that, when some British infantry
were storming a kopje in S. Africa, the “Retire”
was sounded, or called-out, by some undisco’v er-
able person. During the Punjab War, the 14th
Light Dragoons were advancing at a trot to charge
some Sikh cavalry, when suddenly the whole
regiment went “threes about,” and" galloped to
the real’. Jt was proved at the consequent inquiry
that someone gave the command, “ Threes about;
canter,” but no one knew who it was. This
regiment was afterwards derisively known as
“the Threes-about.”
Bishop in the front pew. Flustered
Curate: “ Here beginneth the second chapter of
the Duke of Booteronomy —ahem !—the Boot of
Dukeronomy.”
A PIONEER HUON (TAS.) SETTLER .
The viper to thy bosom crept
And coiled itself within
Found there the warmth for which it wept
To soothe its slimy skin,
And quicking on the breast it gave
Its hearts blood heat the life to save
Of reptile long and thin.
Bravo.
(Recent cablegram to this Glorious Country “Bravo!
New South Wales.”—Lord and Ladv Carrington.
Bravo ! New South Wales
Has joined the fighting set,
With gun and bayonet.
Her flag flies in the gales
Of Africa. I bet
She’ll whip the Boers yet.
Bravo ! New South Wales.
Bravo ! New South Wales,
She heard the distant drum
And felt her pulses hum :
Her Orators, like whales,
Were spouting—tears, and rum,
And blood, and Kingdom Come.
Bravo ! New South Wales.
Bravo ! New South Wales,
She mustered her best men,
Bushman and citizen —
From realms of posts and rails,
And cities. There and then
They threw down axe and pen.
Bravo ! New South Wales.
Bravo ! New South Wales ;
Her heart was filled with pride
As to the water-side
They marched to put some nails
In Kruger’s coffin wide—
Not waiting till he died.
Bravo ! New South Wales.
Bravo ! New South Wales j
Her journals whooped with glee
De-mo-ni-ac-al-ly.
(Their spirit never quails
Who fight with ink—like me.)
O very proud was she !
Bravo ! New South Wales.
Bravo ! New South Wales
Has left for evermore
The peaceful paths of yore
To seek Unholy G-rails,
And on a far-off shore
To paint herself with gore.
Bravo ! New South Wales.
Bravo ! New South Wales,
She yearns to be a great
Big-helmeted small State;
But the Eternal Scales
Weigh all things, soon or late. . .
And she has challenged Fate.
Bravo ! New South Wales.
CREEVE ROE.


AUSTRALIA’S DOUBLE - BANKED NIGHTMARE.
MORAL.- Keep somebody at home to do the washing-up.


vcfytf bt/ \y
} a
My fof°^yP
Ap l4>
<f7\m
V t°y
\i\ Vr?onpey-T /
JYViwjfi
°n« 01 f. , , wc Counn'l
lhe »«».»»*"• * u ,
vvere «>u»' b f** ite . r *»Uj P°" " , rtig ht \
WV S*tB°°<l Cou»"« o V
, " ll.« 6P ccdl ” doqucu-l ODC )
I have be® ll W
Zflie bonder fs that a society which per- -
{tails-this degradation of its manhood, and
•of its womanhood also, should not breed a
greater proportion of the criminal element
than it does. Yet this is a thing that Mr.
Levi asks- the Legislative Council'/to per*-,'
petuate. He offers himself as an 'object/
lesson why it should be done. In hi*
youth, he says y lie was compelled to labor
long hours, and so far from the process
having sapped his vitality, he finds himself
at 70 years of age strong enough to stand up''
In the Legislature of his country and advo-
cate the continuance of the squalid prac- 5
A tices of his boyhood. ~~
I Mr. COOK.—The officials were not alive to the’
- necessity of some other method. He found from
- a return supplied to him that the prison materials
" cost £6515. According to Captain Evans, the in-
spector-general of Penal establishments, the re-
- ceipts obtained from the sale of manufactured
~r material by the gaols for the same year was
“£6000,” so that apparently there was a loss of
over £5OO. When there was a surplus 'supply of
stocks or stores the auctioneer was called in, and
the articles sacrificed. There were 10 gaols m
Victoria, including the women’s orison at rent-
ridge, but half that number would be sufficient.
These prisons were capable of accommodating
2376 prisoners, but the daily average in 1898 was
1279 only, so that there were vacancies for 1097
prisoners.
l,l ,
S^bS VS £ ik : ~y>ure.
°f 1
Vltwi^
LyYe
17
1 \(>a
"Well, Well 1 4 0, tcl'eVe 1
"V/oaji Cao'e 'lo s€e ajl rye*?,
'V/]?oVe, liVei 'to
qai'je 5° 'toad? lsyi.
Mr. BROMLEY hoped that the Government
would see its way to increase the small vote ox
.£lOO to the Victorian Artists’ Society. lhat
Society had done moat useful work, and it was
now in great financial straits
Mr. M'COLL would make a note of the applies
tion, and would see if anything could be done in
the matter.
V/»$ n/ic is >*>.
Rvfci
KcKstto 1?
| gerr i% l,*jr co-T
* V <S>
0/ *PS>
7>o
'gill (4°
Be
Ye'tu.T'9 \joripe r 7 Y&jrfi'bfveyi
; '' f oo K / er£.,
_ % 1 *>*?t<\'eo"7 'IT
"(xvY wer, luf S&°t*pT °p J
/fcfory 1 H®
or * 7; an7*vO HTofer ' ryixiV o' t?efa.fyors
n?g • '
IN AND AROUND MELBOURNE.


ttior what you are about TO RE-
j- CEIVE, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
Loudon Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “FEDERAL
SHAMPOO I’KEEZEr/
a shampoo this hot season.
Jhlliott Bros., Agents.
5?
v
m
m
The Grip
In that tickling cough of
yours there lurks a
crouching tiger! It’s
ready to spring just
the moment you’re oil
your guard. Damp
feet, a little more ex-
posure, moist air, or
some little change,
and you are down with
pneumonia. Take no
chances with such a
dangerous foe.
You may not have
the Grip hard, but there is
always danger of pneumonia.
ftom;
Ptctonu
IS the great preventive of serious lung
disease. It’s a prompt and certain
cure for the Grip. Your hacking
cough stops at once, the soreness in
your chest passes away. Your escape
from pneumonia is complete.
In Large and Small Bottles.
A cure Is hastened by placing over the chest one
P*® r - s . Cherry Pectoral Plasters. Prepared
by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Dowell, Mass.. U.S. A.
Tbs B. ai)d N.Tr€atn>ci)t
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
.the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing-memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There a're on the market
so many “ quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
rejiable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET.
MELBOURNE.
j It is dangerous for a little man to give
public expression to disloyal sentiments in Mel-
j bourae ’ but a bI S man can get up and insult the
i em P ire > wllon the spirit moves him, without any
j serious risk. Writer quotes, in proof, two Port
| Melbourno incidents of the day when the second
j contingent shipped for glory or the grave. When
| the noble fellows were parading Bay-street, an in-
! a f tlc Pj ate drunk, about sft. high, took a lunar at
the Victorian armed forces, and said, “Yah!”
j and “ Bab! ” Seven of the crowd took him
| smartly in the rear, and, having kicked the dust
I ? ut , of bim > nmsed him in a horse-trough A
| hundred yards further on a large, black whart
I l abor eb with a face like the seven deadly sins and
a reputation as a bruiser of great 7 fero’citv
ln i a c ° ns P ic J uous place, heaping in-
sults on the colonel, and, inferential! y, on the
throne and person, and inviting the whole Con-
| tmgent to put down its gun and fight him like a
man Nobody felt called upon to prove his loyalty
on that ravening Zulu. The crowd gave him a
dipfedTeSl
XeSlisSr p“afa S
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest
safest best, restores the natural color. q Lock-
et the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.* °
An old soldier’s opinion :
The most ridiculous force that has vet left fnr tu Q
is the N.S.W. Mounted Rifle, 2nd Contingent They were
absolutely one big “awkward squad,” and hn J!
W m camp at least six weeks donge r t o have
enabled their commandant to get them at ail efficient
Men were known to be in the force who had paid ottos to
fvidencef-E h D lr B 1 l Iln bnt n fh Shooting teStSfor them [What
evidence Ed. 11], but there was no way of weeding
them out in the time. The bulk of the saddles were not
nUlwAffi ll a Co . u Pi e , of da y s before embarkation. Some
of the officers selected could neither ride nor shoot and
knew nothing at all of mounted drill, and had to he fn
structed first. Two of them dismounted suddenly with-
out leave at the first parade, and a third, when told that
he would have to put his nag over a 3-foot fence as a test
ejaculated “Oh Lord,” and asked to be allowed to wfih-’
draw—and yet he remained. Major Knight did his best
deeded 11 ! *1 u® collected about 100 saddles, he pro-
ceeded to take the men out in squadrons, and galloped
!t e fh» a fi° U h the hlU ?,. f<> u an hour or so—those with him
at the finish, no matter how they hung on, beinsr reckoned
good enough. There was no time to trouble about for-
mations, and it was enough to drive a soldier to drink to
At rhT C u ar l lnff around like a mob of kangaroo-hunters
At the finish there were generally more men on foot than
mounted. As regards the Bush Contingent, some of its
prospective members look as if they had never been f„r
ther from Sydney than Cook’s Rive*r in their lives ind
abo u ut horses - One man asked by an
lm , a , horse . ° ff the lines unfastened the
na„ s halter and calmly tried to lead him away by the
heel-rope. That Bush Contingent is pitiably deficient in
bushmess. The part I saw ought to be taken to the Zoo-
logical Gardens and have a kangaroo shown to it as the
beginning of its bush education.
HAUPENNY
GrO TO HELL-
1G GLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
If you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
BUILT UP
ON NATURE’S PLAN.
SPS
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD is of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLHSH, AND GFNHRAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MELLIN'S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OE
ALL DEALERS.
“Tbe R€AL MACKAY
FINEST OLD SCOTCLT WHISKY.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood, Sol© Proprietors.
JJ
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
&
h
&
o
V
an
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And Entirely remoYes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
A
\
/
N
feEOJIQK 82 SXHHSX
V,
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Cheap, Reliable Levers. Unrivalled, 20s •
Silver,* 35s j Hunting, £2. London Keyless Lever
25s ; Silver, £2 2s ; Hunters, £2 10s.
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double), £2 10s, £3, ±3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, 15. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Ivy Leaf and Heart Motto,
12s 6d ; Silver, 4s 6d.
16c. Gold, Diamonds and Ruhies, with
Ivy Leaves, 255. Very cheap.
Latest Style, Solid Gold, Good Luck
Brooch, 10s 6d. 15c. Gold, 21s.
Gold Post Card Charm, Penny
Stamp, 10s ; Silver Gilt, 6s 6d.
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Heart Links, 12s 6d;
15a, 255. Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, 20s, 255; 15a Gold,
355, £2. Monogram on, 2s 6d
extra. Solid Silver, ss.
Links, 9a Gold, 215.; 15a
Gold, 35s and j£2. Silver,
4s 6d.
Other Style, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 80s.
Silver, 2s 6d, 3s.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Heart, 12s M.
90. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and
Heart, 10s. Special value.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Double-cut Diamond,
£2. Splendid value.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Century Brooch, 15s. Latest Rage.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Bar Scroll, Diamonds and Sapphires
or Rubies, £2 10s. Very strong.
A. SAUNDERS’
Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and Chain Gold
Brooch, 13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255.
\*:p a
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 15c. Gold,
Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Similar Pattern, 255.
Pure Diamond Hand
Bing-s.
15c., SOs ; 18c., £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 25s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal Band
17s 6d; 15c. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £los, £l2 10s,
■-O'-
Gold Bracelet, 4 Opals and Pearls, very neat, £2 16s.
O-o
Gold Bracelet, Opal and Rubies, £2 10s.
LATtb'i' LADIES’ RAGE.
Registered “Gold Sword” and Spray Brooch, 13 Pearls,
Ruby, or Sapphire, and Diamond, 255.
Without Diamond, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDEItS (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d •
15c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d. ’
15c. Gold Wish-Bone and Forget-me-
Nots, only 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
fed
A. SAUNDERS’
Lucky Wish Bone and Arrow Gold
Brooch, 12s 6d; Ivy Leaf, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS. New Century Gold Brooch,
Diamonds and Pearls, 20s.
Gold Brooch, , Opals, 14 Pearls, 355.
Bracelets to mutch, £2 15s.
A. SAUNDERS. Registered 9c. Gold Amethyst
Brooch, 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
KINDLY
CALL.
TRY
US.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £B.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £i, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
Gold Envelope
Twopenny Stamp
Charm.
Any Name, 12s 6d.
Silver Gilt, 6s 6d.
Solid Gold Charm
that charms, 10s 6d.
Procured only at
A. SAUNDEBS.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires, or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, £3 and £4.
Send for Size Card.
18s. Solid Gold, extra
strong- and heavy, one
or three diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
paiw
2-Bar Gold Brooch, Red Stones and Pearls, 20s.
d
Gold Good Luck Bells.
4s 6d. 3s 6d. 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
ECIGrH-OLASS LBA-DIWGr JEWELLER & SILVERSMUXEC,
—DISPLAY OF PRESENTS IS A PANORAMA OF LOVE LI N ESS__—^
815 George-Htreet (NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYONTEY.


Publications.
“Open-Air Treatment of Con-
sumption,”
By DR. ALFRED NEALE.
Turner and Henderson, Sydney. Post, Is. 7d
Books. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR—£S for £1 ss. The Home
M Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for £l. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. 6d. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, lOvols.,
£7 10s. for £2 15s. The History of Australian Bushrang-
ing', Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper.
R.W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh street, Sjdney.
PHOTOS FROM LIFE.
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Carefully selected assortments, 155.,
255. and 40s. money order or London draft.
R. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES,
PARIS, FRANCE.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
°F RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
ILLUSTRATED
fs
X\7 ITII numerous anatomical
' ’ colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
m
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
*2Ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
READ
PHIL MAY’S WINTER ANNUAL
1899.
A MARVELLOUS SHILLING’S WORTH.
Important Features : Numerous Full-page and Small
Illustrations, by Phil May and other artists. Ten
stories by the best leading authors of the day.
fSF" The Cheapest and Best Number yet Published.
Order at once of your Bookseller and Newsagent. W.
THACKER & CO., Publishers, London.
df
FRENCH
• NOVELS
translated into English
Genuine Edition.
Post Free, 1 3, 2/-, and
3/- each.
Madame PANZA,
Box 913,
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
‘MOOa ONOS QNOIUVS
COO SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection, of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC;
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since, out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, arid cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent any where for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other East Selling Books. Mention* this paper when writing
FORBIG-KT STAMPS
sd
cimm
fc-4
V,. 0
(fid
QMiUMB
u'TTMiiM?
QETS 4 Soudan (Oamee) Is; 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautemala(Bird)
Is; 6 Newfoundland (new issue),
Is 6d ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s 6d; 12 Luxemburg, Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s 6d ; 8 Bosnia, 6d ;
50 Spain, 2s. Packets 30 different,
6d ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d ; 150, ss.
Remit by P. 0.0. P.N. Plus, catalogues of albums and
stamps post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES B,
DONNE, 346 Ltle Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
fs
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 eaoh.
PLAITS and TAILS,
*Dln. long, !M. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
•orlted up, y 3 per oz.
We are the cheapettin Aar
trails tar all flair Work,
Send Color of Ilalr. '
W. H. Wigz^ll,
110 William Strbbt,
oorner of Palmer-street.
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.,
Send stamps for full Prioo List. s \
PrCßJpt attention given to Country OrdsW
df
D.S.MAI R
OP
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulated and Guaranteed 1 year, 2/6.
Best quality new English Mainsprings, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Keyless Silver Lever Watches.
Accurate timekeepers. Guaranteed 5 years. 25/
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Silver Double Alberts. 6/6
7/6, 8/6, 9/6. English Hall-marked.
D. S. Mair for Ladies’ 5-stone Brilliant Diarr end
Ring. £4 10s. 18-carat Gold. Hall-marked.
Note address— £Bo4= George Street, Sydney.
I’ll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
Price, 10s. G«l.
Sole Agents:
\
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-st,, Sydney
FOB
Duck SHOOTinc«
always use
CANNON ITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried Used Always.
CASHMORE GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS,
GAME BAGS, GUN CASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
liackham’s Dot y and Cattle
Medicines.
SOLE AGENTS—
Mm BROS. * RIGS. Ltd.
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney-
A
S Cures all BYE
Disorders. Get a genuino
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor:— STEPHEN GREEN,
210 Lambeth Ed., London, S.iO.
Those suffering: from Weak Eyes ov
Eyelids, or other Eye .Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
uUj
DEAF
vrn
The New Patent
tSOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
■to the ears as glasses are to the
' eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
sd
INDIGESTION.
Never fails.
I si
Per Bottle
Postage
H
WASHINGTON.H.SOUL&C9
160 PITT STREET
fS SYDNEY, A)
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
t o all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
THE QUEEN."
BY
ROYAL WARRANT OF APPOINTMENT
TO
Ask for
Wl?i&ky aQd
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
SO PA WATER, &c-
Ask for
BraQdy aQd
‘Scbwcppc
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
tOSmgM.mmmmM,
'mm
am
;V -.- **■
SiP***
t ■' "‘k k£J^k
:
: ' '
The COOLALTA VINEYARDS, from a Photograph,
Lightest Wines* in Australia.
J. A. WILKINSON
Offices :
374 George Street, Sydney.
(down John Sands’ lane.)
GUNS! GUNS! GUNS!
X ■
Sportsmen arid others, requiring a really good, SERVICEABLE GUN, I pte our
REDUCED Prices. An Immense Stock to choose from,
12G.D.8.8.L. HAMMER GUNS,
No gg—Top lever, pistol grip, steel barrels, by J. Tholet and Co. .. <£2 10 0
No. 9-72 Top lever, plain stock, extended rib, by Ancion £3 0 0
No. 218-Bar look, top lever, left choke, doll’s head extension, by W. Coates <£4 0 0
No. 23X—Bar locks, Greener bolt, Damascus barrels, by Cashmore £5 0 0
No. 24X—Bar locks, top lever, Greener bolt, half pistol stock, by Cashmore £6 10 0
No. 860—Top action, extended rib, left choke, right cylinder, by J. Hollis and Sons ... £4 10 0
No. 862 A—Top lever, extended rib, Greener bolt, Hammers below line of sight, by
,T. Hollis and Sons ,£6 0 0
No. 864—Top lever, extended rib, Greener bolt, tested for nitro powders, neatly finished,
by J. Hollis and Sons £7 0 0
Top action, plain rib, Damascus barrels, by W. and C. Scott . £9 0 0
No. 80—30 in. Damascus barrels, left choke, right cylinder, Greener bolt, by Cashmore £8 10 0
No. 316X8 Greener bolt, Damascus barrels, best finish, by Cashmore £l3 10 0
We have in stock a few of Cashmore’s Best Quality D.8.8.L. Hammer Guns, 12 G., which >ve offer at great reductions, viz. :
319 A/GOO9 —32in. Whitworth barrels, file cut rib, side clips, treble wedge fast, in case—Reduced from <£4o to ,£3O.
N 0.1,6. 1,6 plain 30in. Damascus barrels, Westley head, pistol grip—Reduced from <£3o to <£22 10s.
6XB 30in. Damascus barrels, extended file cut rib, Greener bolt—Reduced from <£2s to £1 10s
Cartridges, E.C., from 10s 6d to 13s per 100. Cartridges, Amberite, from 10s 6d to 16s. per 100.
Cartridges, Black Powders, from 7s to 10s 6d.
We can load up at shortest notice Cartridges filled with any of the following powders E.C., Amberite, Schultz, &c.
EDISON’S GENUINE PHONOGRAPH
With Three splendid Records.
Price, £3. Suitable for Christmas Presents, New Year Gifts.
Wedding Presents.
James fficEwan &, Co., Ltd.,
119—125 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


Our Suicides.
Who has not, in a measure, committed suicide t
Does not everyone kill himself more or less?—
Some by too much dissipation ; others by working
to excess ; others by making night day; others by
loving those who do not love them. Means of
suicide abound ; one has only to choose.
“I too,” says a well known writer, “tried to
commit suicide just like many another, not pre-
cisely to the same extent as those whose tragic end
is reported in the daily papers, but I did what I
could.
“I neglected the plain,. plaintive warnings of
my liver; I worried through sleepless nights,
knowing they resulted from a torpid condition of
the liver. I tried to keep my work up when I had
frequent nausea, giddiness, flatulency, and could
see my tongue was heavily coated; in ' fact, the
liver tried all possible ways to show me it needed
repairing and regulating, but I ignored the warn-
ing.”
Many who read this have had the same exper-
ience, but others have chosen .to avoid these com-
plications, and rid themselves of liver trouble by
using the great liver specific —Warner’s Safe Cure.
The universal verdict is, “I only wish I had tried
it before.”
T. Pickup, Esq., ex-Councillor, Family Hotel,
Glenelg, writes: “It is now five years ago that I
suffered from my liver and kidneys. I had severe
E across my loins and under the shoulder-
es, which made me very depressed and disin-
clined to attend to business. Doctors failing to
relieve me, I made up my mind to try Warner’s
Safe Cure. I gave it a fair trial, taking in all
about ten bottles, with the gratifying result that I
am perfectly cured.”*
the Favorite
WHISKEY.
GEO.ROE&C®
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEAGHER&C9
82 A PITT S jT
SYDNEY.
ASK
FOR
sun
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Soid by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
PNfiKONVf-.
A
vtar
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY * CO.,
.Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,.
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofoftes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sal&
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S. W. Navigation Amendment Act hangs
fire. , Just before the Governor affixed his sig-
nature it was pointed out to him that certain pro-
visions in it made the royal assent imperative.
After all the assurances that Westralia
dare not federate because its agricultural indus-
tries are not yet fairly started, and require protec-
tion against the other provinces, it comes as a
shock to learn from Perth Morning Herald that
the present trouble is “the glut in farm produce.”
Premier Philp stumped North Queensland
four years ago with the cry of Separation on his
lips. “My one.desire is Separation,” he harangued.
In time he beoame Mines Minister and later
Premier, and in this current character had the
cool front last week to say that North Queensland
doesn’t want Separation.
It was commonly believed that Fink left
the M‘Lean-Shiels Ministry in anger at the
patronising way in which Shiels alluded to him as
an “intelligent man.” But as that chronic
invalid now says Fink isn’t so intelligent as he
thought, and Fink, instead of being pacified, is
madder than ever, it is evident that Fink didn’t
retire for the reason alleged.
When N.S.W. Labor-member Holman, on
a platform at Hobart (Tasmania), made some
allusions to the injustice of the Transvaal war, he
was charged inside five minutes by as many men
as volunteered for the war in all Tasmania. Tas-
mania, loyal as it is, rushes very gradually a,t the
man with a gun compared to the enthusiastic way
it rushes at the man without one.
Thomas Thompson, one of the heavy
burdens of Maoriland Government, has been per-
suaded to retire with a semblance of dignity, and
M‘Gowan, of the Thames, joins the Ministry.
The dire necessity for getting rid of Thompson (if
possible,'without carrying him out and dropping
him publicly on the pavement, but of getting rid
of him somehow) has long been apparent.
N.S.W. Minister for Education Perry
publicly states that anyone in his department who
expresses doubts about the justice of the present
war will have a particularly warm time. The
same gentleman charges the Boers with having
deprived our fellow-subjects in the Transvaal of
that glorious liberty of speech won for them by
their ancestors on many a hard-fought field. Now,
perhaps, he may be able to explain to us wherein
the difference lies between Oom Perry and Oom
Paul.
It Las come at last. Down in Tasmania
the case of a person suspected of not believing in
the present war has been referred to the police by
Chief Secretary Collins for such action as may
seem desirable. In the days when church and
state were practically one, the same kind of man
used to hand over the name of the suspected
heretic on a piece of paper to the Inquisition in
the same kind of way. We are getting back to
first principles.
“Melb.”: O’Shanassy packed the Vic-
torian Civil Service with Irish to such an extent
that even now the Hibernians are in strong force.
Now there is an impression abroad that all Irish
are rebels, and the loyal recognise that if they can
get the O’ crowd turned out for disloyalty, there
will be a heap of billets. So you can hardly look
out through the keyhole of a Vic. Government
office without seeing an ear at the other side —
mostly an ear that is prepared to swear to any-
thing.
Premier Lyne frequently closes his Cabinet
meeting without prayer. Little pity he deserves.
A Premier when Cabinet-making should avoid
men who are members of sectarian secret societies
and organisations with firebrandish purposes. N.
S.W. Premiers, however, never succeed in doing
this ; apparently they never try. They pick up a
hulking mass of green to placate one push and a
sack of orange yells to placate another—and suffer
from sore heads and distracted councils as a con-
sequence.
P David G.” : From the recently-printed
letter of N.S.W. Lancer Daley :
We went out one day to arrest a Boer at his house. We
secured him, and then went to the stable to get some
horses. We asked a native who was at the stable for a
bridle to lead the horse, but he refused. Captain Cox
threatened to shoot him if he did not get it at once. He
would not obey, and without any more ado the policeman
who was with us put a bullet through his head.
And Australia is shocked at the low value which
the Boer puts on native lives.
Those who know Bendigo’s deep-sinking
reputed millionaire, George Lansell, now long past
70, marvelled when they learned that, in deference
to the Minister for Mines, he had ended the local
mining engine-drivers’ strike by agreeing to pay
the standard wage-rate. But, after all, the very
obstinate, self-willed old gentleman had not
changed in a day. A week after it had been
announced that the whole thing was settled only
13 of the 60 drivers were at work, and of course a
large number of miners were still locked out.
The opponent of compulsory arbitration finds
in the circumstance a convincing proof that
the project must fail—“ You can bring a mule to
water but you can’t make him drink.” The cir-
cumstance, though, really provides an argument
for fixing a penalty when terms are not complied
with. The Lansell case is a proof that the non-com-
pulsory variety of arbitration (the kind that was
tried on Lansell) is a failure.
Melbourne Age, discussing the question
of State Governors under Federation, remarks
that “ the State Governor will need to be a good
business man and a State officer—not a feeble and
tawdry imitator of Royalty.” Which is a nasty
way of implying that State Governors in the past
have been rather a cheap job lot.
Fegan, N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture,
speaking at a show Lismore way recently,
remarked that “he was not an agriculturist
himself, but that |Was perhaps an advan-
tage, as he had no fads. He had a staff of
competent experts to advise him.” That
expresses a favorite opinion of the late
Parkes—an opinion which is responsible
for many of the
evils which curse
N.S.W. An ig-
norant Minister
may have no fads
in tiie form of
predilections for
particular ways
of doing things,
but ignorance is
itself an all-
blighting fad. “A
Minister who
knows nothing
works his de-
p a rtment
smoothly” said
Premie r
Parkes; “those
who know some
thing, or think
they know
something,
create con-
f u s i o n.”
Consequent-
ly he put
blacksmiths
over Educa-
tion, shoe-
makers over
Mines, and
hotelkeepers
over Justice.
But even if
such men have
no fads, does not
their ignorance
make them
depend-
ent on
official
advisers who
are, in the great
majority of cases,
faddy to an ex-
treme? Further,
if the Parkes-
Fegan theory be
correct, what is
the need for full-
grown and full-
paid men as Min-
isters ? Are they
supposed to be
paid for their ig-
norance ?
The Tramway
Bill introduced
by Bromley, M.
L.A., in Vic. As-
sembly provides,
among other
things, that, ex-
cept in cases of ur-
gent necessity eight
hours shall be a
legal day’s work,
not only for men
employed on tram-
ways but also, in
the ease of horse-
trams, for the ani‘
mals in the shafts.
Truly it is time that
the horse had an
eight-hour move-
ment as well as the
man. But it is fur-
ther provided that
when the man
works overtime (in
cases of urgent ne-
cessity) he shall get
25 per cent, extra
pay. This is a guar-
antee that his over-
time won’t come
round too often.
But the horse can’t
get extra pay for
overtime, and so
the urgent necess-
ity for him to do
some extra-special
haulage will prob-
ablyh appen so of ten
that he will be a very
old horse before he
begins to know any-
thing about the
eight-hour system.
In 1877 four man escaped from Hobart
gaol; nineteen have since got away, four during the
present year. Also one enterprising individual
got over the wall into the gaol, “by way of look-
ing at the other side of the case,” says ex-Premier
Braddon. Even the Hobart people have left off
taking their gaol seriously now.
The German Military Department takes
three years to make a soldier, but “when the
Empire calls,” the Cow-
Shaking Ministry of N.S.W.
guarantees to do it in thro ■
weeks.
Some Australian employers are so muddled
in their loyalty just now that they are sacking all
foreigners—Danes, Greeks, Italians, Portuguese
Norwegians, and sundries—with a vague impres-
sion that every man who isn’t British-born is a
Boer. Even a Peruvian who couldn’t read English,
and didn’t know where the Transvaal was, and in
his inability to comprehend papers printed in
English wasn’t fully aware that there was a war
got the run from his billet lately in one Australian
city on the general charge of being a Boer.
The N.S.W. public service, as it is
nanaged nowadays, is a fearful and wonderful in-
stitution. A blue-book is published regularly
showing the salaries paid to every public servant •
but it doesn’t follow that the public servant gets
the salary with which he is credited—not by a
long way. In the professional division many
officials received increases (on paper) which were
to take effect (on paper) from Ist July, 1898.
And at time of writing, which is 20th January,
1900, they haven’t begun to collect these increases’
and don’t even know for certain that they ever
will collect them. The Public Service List states
the pleasing fiction that they are getting them—
but they aren’t.
It is an open question, after all, if the next
Westralian Assembly will be much more reformed
than the present one. The Amending Constitution
Bill gives the goldfields a shade more representa-
tion than they nave hitherto enjoyed; and provides
also for woman suffrage, a slight expansion of the
male suffrage, and for triennial elections instead of
elections every four years as heretofore. But the
Bill is now wearily trotting Englandwards for the
Royal assent, and it isn’t expected to come into
force till about June. When it comes in force the
newly-enfranchised voters, provided they have six
months residence qualification, may start to
register themselves as fast as the legai formalities
allow,_ and six months after registration they can
vote, if they don’t lose their vote by removal in
the interim. In the weird land of the Sandgroper
a man has to qualify as an elector and get himself
registered as an elector, and then he isn’t an
elector after all—not for another half-year. The
franchise is practically a crime in W.A.
Higgins, M.L.A., of Victoria, struck a
heavy incidental blow at the M‘Lean Ministry
over the Land Bill. He moved the insertion of a
clause giving the Government power, as in Maorf-
land, to compulsorily purchase large estates to be
cut up and re-sold in small farms. No province
needs such a law more than Victoria, for right at
the door of Melbourne there are still enormous
pastoral properties which the owners refuse to
break up, and meanwhile population is being
elbowed across the border through sheer want of
good land to settle on. The M‘Lean Government
spoke against the proposal and implored Higgins
to withdraw it, but the hairless one was immov-
able. So it despairingly voted with Higgins,
Turner, and the old Ministry generally for the'
new idea, and it was carried so far as the Assembly
was. concerned. The Duncan Gillies push of
Tories, which keeps M ‘Lean in office, took the
other side as a matter of course, so already there
is a rift within the lute, and the chance is that the-
lute will never be quite the same lute again.
“ The Minister said he was much pleased
with the appearance of the men of the contingent,
and their shooting was excellent. He felt that in
the end British intervention would result advan-
tageously, not only to the Uitlander but to the
Boers as well.” — Melbourne paper.
The Rifleman's “ Aim.”
I’m a tall, attractive soldier in a natty khaki suit,
For years I’ve practised shooting at a little dummy man,
Now I’in going out in earnest on a patriotic loot
To plug the bloomin’ Boers —bag as many as I can.
I’m not certain where I’m bound for—but it’s somewhere-
“ over there ”
If you ask me why I’m going I reply : “ Because I am
I’m not sure what Kruger’s doing, and I don’t know* that
I care,
For my fundamental principle is “ Never give a damn,”
The Minister’s been with me ; he admires me very much,
And compliments my shooting. Talking large about
“ the cause.”
He assures me ’tis my object—while I perforate the
Dutch—
Their dull intellects to brighten and make liberal their
laws.
M'DOUGAL'S HELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'J'AM M‘I)OUGAL died, and drifted to the awful bourne below
Where the sainted politicians and the pawky elders go,
Where the sober-sided Philistines in flames eternal dwell,
And behold there’s only hell for those who did believe in Hell!
As the smoke of ceons lifted..o’er the red gates flaming wide,
Up to greet the’ damned M’Dougal came the spirit of his bride—
Of his bride of years agone. He fled athwart the clinkered stars,
But she seized him by the whiskers, and she plucked him through the bar- :
Oh! she’d harried him on earth, and made his life a smouldering curse,
She had rent his very vitals, and had ever plucked his purse.
When she died he lifted up his voice, and wept a live-long day—
But he praised the Lord for fifty that had taken her away!
Now, she dragged him down the seething depths, and. set him for a year
Where the fire was white with leprous hate, and great, fanged serpents were.
With the Gidf’s grim host she tortured him, and twenty devils’ wit,
And her conduct with one Judas was the scandal of the Pit!
For a year M’Dougal writhed in woe; his wife with malice grim
Made the life an earth in hell, and cidled its fiercest pangs for him.
Then he rose with shrieks of fury, and went flaming up the steep,
Seeking justice of the Master where a million million weep.
“ Ye may fill my bones with molten gold, my skull with bubbling lead.
An’ I’ll bless ye if yefll rid me o’ my curs&d wife! ” he said.
Satan heard the case, and answered: “’Tis the law — go, heed it well.
There’s no marriage up in Heaven—and there’s no divorce in Hell! **
E.D.


PALING’S
Are essentially and exclusively a
Musical House. When we say ex-
clusively we mean in the sense that we
deal in Music and Musical Goods
Only. We are the oldest established
Music House in N.S.W., and feel safe
in saying we hold the World’s best
Agencies in all lines that we stock.
PIANOS
We are Sole Agents for the in-
comparable “ Steinway,” a Piano
possessing numerous scientific patents
of real practical value. The Steinway
Piano is unsurpassed for grand and
massive yet delicate tone quality.
We also carry full lines of the
“ Brinsmeads.” They are of English
manufacture and noted for solidity of
construction thus ensuring great dura-
bility. The “ Victor ” Piano is so well
known all over Australia that a
description of this remarkably cheap
instrument is unnecessary.
ORGANS
We handle the Estey Organ very
largely and claim they are the cheapest
and best value Organs to be pur-
chased anywhere. The Estey Co. have
manufactured more than 306,000
Organs; this is in itself a sufficient
guarantee that they have left the
initial stages of manufacture in the
remote distance. The prices of our
Organs are extremely cheap. We will
mail illustrations on application.
VIOLINS
You will find on our third floor a
very extensive collection of 800
Violins ranging in price from a few
shillings upwards. We carry quarter,
half and three-quarter size Violins;
these smaller models are for the
little ones whose fingers are too
small to manipulate a full size instru-
ment.
STRINGS
and fittings for all Instruments. Tail
pieces, bridges and pegs.
Our celebrated “ Reliance ” Strings
are acknowledged to be the very best
that can be manufactured, and, as
their name indicates, they are
thoroughly to be relied upon.
Notwithstanding the excellent
quality our prices are really moderate.
CORNETS
Special attention is directed to our
Band Instrument Department (third
floor) ; it is replete with instruments
of every description for Bands and
Orchestral Societies.
Our business transactions with the
Manufacturers are on a very large scale
—we place extensive orders and obtain
special discounts ; this enables us to
sell at a phenomenally low price. We
are Sole Agents for Besson, Boosey,
and Couesnon.
Our speciality, “ The Student’s
Model ” Cornet, is a gem at the price.
It will pay you to inspect our
immense stock and compare the quality
of our Band and Orchestral Instru-
ments.
ANY
MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT
you may require ask for it at
PALlNG’S— they will show you
the best selection, in Australia.
GUITARS
Banjos and Mandolins. The cele-
brated “ Washburns ” with the true
Cremona Tone.
POLYPHONS
Are the latest and best of the
“ Automatics.” The old-fashioned
Musical Box was its predecessor and
limited to 10 or 12 tunes.
Polyphons possess a fuller and
sweeter tone, they are fitted with
interchangeable steel music discs, easy
to adjust ; there are thousands of
tunes already produced; when tired of
those you have you can order new
ones.
CATALOGUES
Our Catalogues are very explicit
and full of good, reliable information ;
we will forward any or all of them free
upon application.
SIAIU3JL
Our Easy Time Payment System
for all instruments is widely known
and largely availed of. Call or write
to us about terms, we will gladly
answer.
All our goods are guaranteed as
represented.
W. H. PR LIN <3
t CO., Ltd., Tb« L«adii)g MOsic War«bo<i£«
338 George Street, Sydney,
Brisbane and Newcastle.
The Rational Cash Register.
A National Cash Register protects
the cash
It protects the customer*
It protects the shopkeeper.
It protects the books-
It protects the assistant-
a
It causes credit customers to buy
for cash-
It makes occasional purchasers
regular customers-
Prices from £5 to £6B.
Full information
on application to
Cast) Register
COM P 3 A.3XT Y.
303 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LING HAM, General Manager,
HILLS
5/
A
can always be ridden
easier on a machine
fitted with
MULTIFLEX
Duniqp Tyres'
than on a Cycle fitted with other
tyres —-the difference being that
“ Dunlop’s,” owing to their
being lined with our Patent
Plexieort Pabric, are mere
resilient than any other
tyres made, thus enabling
Cyclists to ride with the least
possible amount of vibration,
and consequently with more
speed and comfort.
MULTIFLEX
s
Excel all others for Lightness, Durability and
Ease of Detachment.
ROADSTER TYRES GUARANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS. *
SEND AT ONCE for a copy of artistic booklet: “All About Dunlop Tyres for
1900,” posted gratis on application to
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co* of Dus* Ltd.,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
DT.S.-XTV.
dlont deplete fl.« I. Co. ,Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
•74. CASTLEREAGH ST., >74.
* SYDNEY *
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GUO, CROWLEY,
MANAGES.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street ( facin t r Brid & e - 8t ) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. ICiTip. Inahilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, efc.
W. M'Mii.lan, M.P., A. W: MeiJks, J.P.,’Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jbssop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Pertb., ’West A.ustralia.
SPLENDID BUILDING BLOCKS,
50 x 150, only JBS each, on easy terms, no
interest. Title, Torrens’ Act. Adjoining Bishop
Gibney’s Estate and the Perth Commonage.
Plans post free from
ERNEST G V. BROUGHTON, A
Auctioneer & Sworn Valuator under the R.P. Act,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.-
Queensland Sm iltino noiDpy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough. '
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-*-* Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street;•or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loodoi) & LapcaSbir^
Fire Insurance company.
LIBERAL .. ■ PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch:
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P.- Ho»an, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund - .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. ». .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Robert Campbell Close, Esq.
. Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W.. Uthbr, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
iV'Lh Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand.; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the. United States, Hamburg- and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed-deposits ; collects- for
its mstOlliers dividends of public companies, and interest
, n,.debentures’aiid invests; money..oh their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Br tain ; under-
lines the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular
n res and letters, of; credit, and conducts all customary
ranking- business.'
The Bank.also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
F 2 >; oogddable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India iind the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Sat., Feb. 3, 12 Noon.
-Konoowarra, Tues., Feb. 6, 5 p
Tyrian, Sat., Feb. 9, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
PREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., Feb. S, 12 Noon.
Gabo, Tues., Feb. 6, 5 p.m.
Leura, Sat., Feb. 10, 12 Noon.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., Feb. 3, 12 Noon.
Leura, Sat., Feb. 10, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
OAIRNS. &e.
Lass o’ Gowne, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
- Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
* Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. MTlwraith, M'Eacharn & Co.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Jbe Trustees, CxccOtorS,
AND
AgSOCV Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED... ... . £l5OOOO 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP I £oo 000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY ... £l5O 000 0 0
Amount at Credit o! Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June,. 1899 ... ±'6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government. .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500/100
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Regxsterkd Capital .... ~ £4,.501) 000 0 0-
Paid-up Capital (U/12/’991 ... £3.163*938 10 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. 11. Embliny, M.L.C.;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors : John M‘Nall, R. M. M‘Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Ojjice: 1 Jiishopsffate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW south wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
• Assistant Manager : J. R. Leqoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuehar.
Baymarket, (insford with atrency at Wvong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'—THE-/*—
Colonial Mutual I>ife
assurance; society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out MutuaTMiability.
Offices - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
. Directors:
Hon.; J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
_ C.M.G..-M.L.C.; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
- Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonusas—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 St 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
CITY mutual fire
Insurance Company Ltd.
Hbad Office: 95 Pitt STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Kates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
UOBISKT KERR, Manager.
fka Bank of north Queensland
LI MIT ion.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Chakker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp& Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... . £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
OPALS • PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
..0F...
Opals, Pearls Sapphires
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL VALUE GIVEN.,
A. BCNJRMIN aod SONS,
285 a Little Collins St-. Melbourne-
Shipping
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetoivn and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
England via America
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide-; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
LLOYD.
N.D.L.
OEDDEUTSCHEB
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, '87375,400 ; 'Conveying 1151,903
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (urn
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and PortrSaid. ' .
*TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Blest Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Hon. Richard Jones, M.L.C.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
Hon. F. T. Humphrey, M.L.C.; J. de V. r.Aunt,
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
United IfySCirafycc Co
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
£500,000.
CAPITAL
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Bates very Low .
“ - THOMAS .M. TINLEY, Manager.-
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager' and General Agent.
FINANCE, MJNTNfi. INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 GOLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
. Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service, to and from West Australian,
south Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports j
S.S. Eurimbla, Friday, Feb. 2.
-
S.S. Wollowra, Sat., Feb. 10.
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE .
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Port B North to Cairns
S.S. Cintra, Frid., Feb. 2.
)-S.S. Adelaide, Sat., Feb. 3.
JnOTE.—This steamer running under contract with the
Queensland Government for the carriage of refrigerated
cargo will maintain a regular vveekly fast servide between
Sydney and Brisbane, and will connect with t.heP. andO.
and Orient steamers. The attention of passengers is
directed to this opportunity of quick transit between
03'dney and Brisbane. The ADELAIDE isa first-class pas-
senger steamer, all cabins containing only two berths.
Best & Cheapest lloute to Goldfields.
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
Ltd., Bridge St. Sydney.
V#. \j m VOY. LTD.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekl.v,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, • Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly
SYDNEY AND ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BUItKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, ami) FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY- Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. - MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
p. and ’o. company;
The Royal Mail Steamships™of -the-a-bove Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Syd ney,
Noon
steamer
Commander.
HIMALAYA 6893 W. L. Broun, R.N.R. Feb. 10
♦OCEANA _ 6603 L. H. Crawford.C.B., R.N.R. Feb. 21
♦ BRITANNIA;6S2S F. H. Seymour ... March 7
♦INDIA ...7911 W. D. G. Worcester, R.N.R. March 21
♦VICTORIA . 6527 E. Crewe April i
* Proceeding via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
I>itto Ditto , Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAWNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge. Street- .
(juddart, Parker § go’s tine
- - TO— - - -
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTBALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
c;ia:xaxr-A. and a!axr!
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. COMPAIX, Ltd.
The following favorite Passenger Steamers will sail
from Sydney as under for HONGKONG and JAPAN, via
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to '
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(ll‘|lujraith,fll‘Eacharn* (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
J AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
iTilwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address— 467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will-be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE £2s to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrivaTat Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc.,'.and also accompany-Ahem to,P&ri&and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.


MEMORY
v \tfNE4/y
MEMORY,
LESSONS
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
School of Arts,
Sydney.
TESTIMONIALS.
Mr. A. H. Brown, Constitution Hill, Tas.—“History
was always my dread in exams., but by your System I
have just gained 92 per cent, of the possible in it. With
your System no one need fear the examiners.”
Mr. R. Hutchins, Hunter-street, Sydney.—“lt is oi
inestimable value to those about to matriculate, and to
civil service candidates. It will always repay a hundred
fold the small fee invested.”
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
MONTSERRAT
LIME-FRUIT JUICE
SAUCE.
THF
THE BASIS OF WHICH IS
Montserrat
Lime=Fruit
Juice...
&
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is
found, forms a most con-
venient basis for Sauce,
and we invite a trial. It
has been pronounced by
connoisseurs to be the Best
Sauce before the Public. It
is also half the price of
first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL,
Master in Surgery, writes
so far back as 1617, in a
treatise on Scurvy :—“l
dare not write how good
a Sauce it (Lime-Juice)
is at meat, lest the Chiefe
in the Ships waste it in
the great Cabins.”
Stronger & Cheaper
than any other
Sauce.
AGENTS:
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., D. Mitchell
& Co., E. Rowlands, Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.,
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
mjii
m 'm
SPARKLING
« V//A
// _ v///.
WM
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared with (his
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES.
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES. CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS.
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Agents: BLAKEY & LACEY, 23 Gamden Buildings, 418 Ceorge Street. Sydney.
OOr fraVc -»-Us.
OUR SALES AVERAGE 1000 PER YEAR.
EVERY WATCH GUARANTEED TO WEAR A LIFETIME, AND KEPT IN THOROUGH REPAIR
(Breakages excepted) FOR 3 YEARS.
THE GOLDSMITHS AND SILVERSMITHS’ ALLIANCE.
SPECIAL LEVER WATCHES
EXCEPTIONAL TIMEKEEPERS,
SPECIALLY MADE TO STAND ROUGH
RIDING AND COUNTRY WEAR.
COMPENSATED BALANCE,
EXTRA JEWELLED and
ADJUSTED.
SKETCH SHOWING FINE FINISHED
WORKS.
GENT.’S SIZE.
Silver, Open Face...4os
Oxidised ~ ~ ...25s
Nickel ~ ~ ...25s
Silver Hunters ...45s
GENT.’S DOUBLE
CASE 14c. GOLD
FILLED CASES,
WARRANTED
TO WEAR 20
YEARS.
A REMARKABLE
VALUE WATCH.
£4 ss.
wmmm
©siswßsssa
isiSSiiihimiiia
m
\*jj»*a\*.*
WMrnm
mmm
ias
wW'®/®:
»®Vi
MUM.
;.'-r
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING
MONOGRAM.
12s 6d
C 1 /
12s 6d
12s 6d
12s 6d
LADIES’ SIZE.
Silver, Open Face.. 408
Oxidised „ „ ...35s
Silver Huntera ...60s
GUARANTEED TO WEAR FOR A LIFETIME.
The Goldsmiths and Silversmiths'
Alliance
LADIES’ GOLD KEYLESS WATCHES,
RICHLY, ENGRAVED OASES and
ACCURATE TIMEKEEPERS.
9c., 70s ; 14c., 90s ; 180-, 110 s.
Silver, 255, 30s, 455.
OASES IN TEN (10) DIFFERENT DESIGNS.
OUR FAMOUS NICKEL
OPEN FACE LEVER
WATCHES. ACCURATE
TIMEKEEPERS.
EXCEPTIONAL VALUE.
ENGLISH HALL-MARKED ALBERTS.
9c. Gold, Single
15c. Gold, Single
Silver, Single
9c. Gold, Double
15c. Gold, Double
Silver, Double
.. 60s, 60s, 70s
.. 955, 110 s, 130 s
.. 7s6d, 10s, 13s6d
.. 60s, 755, 90s
.. 110 s, 130 s, 150 s
.. 10s, 12s 6d, 16s
PLEASE SEND FOR OUE
ILLUSTRATED SLIPS
OP LATEST NOVELTIES.
ALL GOODS POST FREE.
Art Jewellers and Watch Manufacturers,
NOTE Our ONLY Australian Address —90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THOMSON'S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ”
CORSETS
ENOEISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
*6
T-
M
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST.
N.B.—Old Model Corsets alivays in stock.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs-W- S- Thomson & Co-» Ld-, London
(rood. Tilings.
The Christmas issue of The Bulletin is good.
Likewise, good is MINERVA TONIC. The first
aims at instruction and amusement. The second
will assuredly rebuild your wasted constitution,
and prolong your life.
MINERVA TONIC is a phosphorised iron
syrup combined with certain rare restoratives.
It will promote sleep, create a good appetite,
provide energy, and bring back health and con-
fidence.
MINERVA TONIC is cordially recommended
by Mr. Luckham, Bulletin office, as well as
by thousands of men and women in the leading
business and social circles of the country.
As a Tonic, it is absolutely unique, and, as
a result, the testimonials given in its favor are
unique also. The British Lancet, the greatest
medical authority in the world, openly ap-
proves of MINERVA, and thereby recommends
it.
On sale by all chemists throughout Aus-
tralia.*
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c,, use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
LOZENGES
INDIGESTION * EMACIATION
A Queensland Tribute. .
rn=r-m noCTOE Q-RIDSiJREiP HIM TO T-A-IKIB CLEMENTS TONIC.
He Obeyed and has Cause to be Thankful. ,
The Case of
HL JAMES STEPHEN POTTEH.
(by otjr special reporter )
In consequence of information received
the other morning, our reporter drove to
Mount Joy-street, South Brisbane. It did
not take long to find Mr. James Stephen
Potter, who is well and favourably known
in that portion of Queensland’s capital city.
Sitting under the front verandah of the
house, the following conversation ensued,
and vvas faithfully taken down in the
newspaper man’s note book.
“ You have been ill, I am informed?”
was the first question.
“Yes,” replied Mr. Potter; “I suffered
from indigestion and a wasting away of my
flesh. I couldn’t manage my meals, and it
has always been a bad sign with me when
my appetite goes off. A most unpleasant
and bitter taste was always on my tongue
and the roof of my moutK, I had a dull
feeling in the head, and, generally speaking,
I was all out of order, and when I went
up to be examined by the doctor for the
friendly society, of which I wished to
become a member, that medical man refused
to pass me. The nature of my employment
causes me confinement, and I
thought, perhaps, want of exercise was the
cause of my illness. I now started with
dumb bell exercise, and persisted in that for
some time, but all this was as useless as the
physic I took. I began to fall away in
flesh. I couldn’t sleep at night, but lay
in bed awake three parts of my time longing
for the morning light, and when the day
returned I felt dull, depressed, and weary,
and quite unfit to tackle the duties of the
day.”
“ How long did all this last ? ”
“ Oh, for some weeks. I was getting
about tired of it. I grew weaker and
thinner all the time.”
“ What were the doctor’s orders ? ”
“ The doctor’s orders were to take Cle-
ments Tonic, and 1 only wish I had known
about the recuperative powers of that
remedy when. I first fell ill Not to take up
your time too much, I may tell you that I
purchased some Clements Tonic, and at
about the same time I read an, account of
the case of a man that was cured of indiges-
tion in a Brisbane paper. I noticed with
some interest that the symptoms described
in the newspaper paragraph were very
similar to those that affected me. I
started taking Clements Tonio as the
doctor had ordered. In two or three days’
time I found a marked difference in
my health. I once had a feeling of
heaviness in the chest after eating.
This I now found was giving way
under the influence of the Clements
Tonic. I soon found that my suffer-
ings were being cured just in the
way that I had read of in the newspaper.
Then as to appetite. Whereas once I could
hardly look at food, and only made a light
meal now and then, I now found 1 was
getting quite an appetite and always came
quite hungry to my meals. My food now
had quite a different taste, and was no
longer a weight upon my chest making, me
heavy, tired, and drowsy in the dqy time,
but nourished me and gave me strength and
vitality.”
“How did you get on?”
“ Splendidly. I continued the doses of
.Clements Tonic, and soon lost all the
disagreeable symptoms of my malady.
Once more I slept a wholesome, dreamless
sleep, and awoke refreshed and cheerful in
the morning ready for my day’s duties.” ..
“Did you gain admission to the club?”
“ Yes ; I went before the doctor again
and he passed mi immediately, and con-
gratulated me on my recovery. I am as
sound as a Dill, and my digestion is in
perfect order now, the credit for which i*
due to Clements Tonic. lam pleased to
know that if anything ever goes wrong with
me in future that I have a remedy at hand
that will put me right.”
“With your permission I shall publish
this interview ? ”
“ Certainly ; you have my full permis-
sion,” said Mr. Potter, shaking hands and
bidding good-day.
STATUTORY DECLARATION
I Janies Stephen Potter, of Mount Joy-strert,
South Brisbane, in the Colony of Queensland do
hereby solemnly and'sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting or
three folios and consecutively numbered from one
to three, and that it contains ard is a, true, ana,
faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements
Tonic, and also contains my full permission to
publish the same in any way ; and l make this
’ solemn declaration, voluntarily and without receiv-
ing anv payment, conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of 1M
Oaths Act, 1867 ”
Declared at South Brisbane this 15th day of July,
one thousand eight hundred and niijety-nine, before
nie, THOS. HEASLOP, J.P


His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGE^
..0n...
Mr. Fraok Seoior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney.
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
YOU DON'T need to hunt for level roads
if you RIDE A MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE*
J “ Runs easy, and keeps running easy.”
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney. Dunedin, Brisbane. Adelaide.
Aeencies almost, everywhere. Art CataloSiie posted free on application. |
N.S.W. BRANCH: 355 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Strand Aroadb.
Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
Ipfkigpza CoGgb.
K
i-
K
i
ML "V*
(FO
£%ed ssird Quality dprceket.
Found oqly o«i
1900 Model
Red Birds.
gfc *ur~ tr»sr^s%*st
and Guaranteed by Che ©cold Bicycle Co., £td.,
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Hgents everywhere.
Australasian Branches :
64 King-st., Sydney, Head Ofeice in Aus’*
261 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic,
Edward-st. Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st., Wellington N.Z.
Call and examine our Stock of New Cycles, at £5 each, fitted with best Tyres and Rim»
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Sydney backers have seldom before subscribed
towards the incomes of the books as unanimous” ™d
aays racing not a first favorite-got home: five events
including the two big races, were won by rank outsiders ’
and h ! ,a W wi eVen ' m « ney favor kes—backed by everyone—
down h urinf n fl f s £ choices nearly as warm? went
down, the mg must have gathered in a harvest. The
nutti n i? v , sh f ° ws PP . the . “ can't lose ” system of
puttmg £1 on the favorite m the first event and doubling
? n e . qu ? , V' favorite until one gets home. Punt-
£«»9sn *Or rath Clpl n a back ® r would lose °n the two days
when s ' it°eo th f r ’ wouldn’t lose that much, because,
lausm™, 1 to the last event and he had to get
±2048 on one horse for it, he would find that all the books
combined couldn t lay him the odds to that amount.
* * * *
Maitland (N.S. W.)-owned gelding Inquirer, who
nof Bovnl'p th S i T- °‘ An . nive . raar y Handicap from the hot-
pot Royal Purple, was, despite his Summer Oup failure
fancied m many quarters until Friday, when he started
first favorite for the Turf Club Handicap (lj miles) and
went under to Drama by half a length in 2min. llsec.
Consequence was that as much as 15 to 1 could have
peeni had about him for Saturday’s big event. Inquirer’s
brother, Tom, won the same race three years ago with
0.13 up—exactly the weight carried to the front by
Aiemene in the following year and Inquirer last week.
Another coincidence is that Tom started first favorite for
tile lurf Club Handicap in his year and was beaten—
finishing out of a place. Knowledge of this fact ciused a
few cute punters to have a pound or two on Inquirer,
where they might have left him religiously alone other-
wise. Inquirer was bred by Mr. T. Cook at Turanville,
and got by Invader from Marian by Marybyrnong. His
time (2mm. 37sec.) has only been beaten once since the
distance was increased four years back. Alemene’s 2min
sec. is the record so far. The heaviest weight (9.3)
was carried by Carlyon in 1889, but then the distance was
a furlong shorter than now.
* * * *
s * n ? e writer tipped Royal Purple to
win Sir.C. Anniversary Handicap, and now that the race
is over and the nag ran second, is satisfied that she should
ha ? e won t>y a street. Rarely has a horse been handled
so badly. One of the last three to get away, the mare
was set an almost impossible task from the jump. Tod-
bloan-style-rider Kuhn kept her behind all for three-
quarters of a mile, and, six furlongs from home, had only
moved up a few yards. Ere the finish, Royal Purple
wiped off 14 lengths of the gap between herself and the
leader, but would need to have been a marvel to have won
under the circs. Owner had £3OO on her, and the public
staked heavily. “Teddy” Knight is singularly unfor-
tunate with his jockeys, as witness recent Xmas Handi-
cap and Tatt.’s Cup trouble, as well as the happenings in
Melbourne during Caulfield and V.R.C. spring meetings.
Evidence of what a good thing Royal Purple was for
Saturday s big race is to be found in the fact that she ran
a trial with Mora and Fairy Prince (having the weights
up), and squelched both by 20 lengths.
• * « *
Mr. Dick O’Connor’s Challenge Stakes winner,
Blue Cap 11., who used to run among the galloways,
started at the nice price of 20 to 1. The gelding did a
rattling gallop before the race, but somehow very few
of the usual followers of the stable were on the good
thing. Blue Cap, by Sunrise, is not fashionably bred, as
his dam does not appear in the stud-book.
* * *
Young “Bill” Kelso very nearly landed one of
the surprises for which the stable is famous in the Welter
Handicap on Randwic-k first dav. Argyle, Kelso’s cham-
pion hurdler, went out at 10 to i, and was only beaten in
the last couple of strides by Ace of Diamonds. At the
time of Ace of Diamonds’ sale in Melbourne for a hundred
and odd guineas, Mr. Long said the old gelding was the
cheapest horse at the sale, and he is a pretty good judge.
‘Gun”: Thought when A.J.C. Committee
made such a fuss about Mora’s running in Xmas Handicap
and Tatt.’s Cup (weeks later) and disqualified jockey
Frank Fielder for three years, that they’d come down
pretty heavily on inconsistent running, but it is every bit
as much in evidence as heretofore, and was never more
noticeable. Friday last Australian Peer gelding Fera-
morz (8.7 up) started in Welter Handicap (7 furlongs)—
won by Woottoii s Aee of Diamonds—ana after showing
prominently to the turn, disappeared. He wasn’t men-
tioned in the betting. Next day same nag figured in Cor-
inthian Handicap (7 furlongs) with lOst. in the saddle,
was backed down to 4 to 1, and won easily by 6 lengths
after leading from end to end. Amourette, among the
last to finish in the Challenge Stakes the day before, com-
fortably appropriated the heavyweight handicap over the
same distance on Saturday. Then Latem, never once
dangerous in Friday’s big sprint, was on Saturday master
oi the situation from the time the barrier flew up—this in
face of the fact that such good ’uns as Boreas 11., Argo,
'Zoe and Bob—all well backed—hadn’t a place-getter
amongst them. Drama conceded 31b. to Inquirer in the
Turf Club Handicap (1J miles) on Friday and beat him ;
yet in the Anniversary Handicap (I£ miles), meeting
Inquirer on only 51b. worse terms than the day before,
she ran second last. Small wonder that the backer goeth
to the wall in droves, while the leather-lunged Ikey
flourish eth even as the green bay tree.
» * • *
Ike Earnshaw’s bay filly, Reel, by Gigue (imp.)
from Spyglass, won Nursery Handicap at Randwiek on
Saturday from start to finish, and in such style as to en-
gender the belief that she is among the speediest two-
year-olds seen out this season. Chestnut colt Lyddite,
by Zalinski from Adage, belonging to same owner, was
second. Writer thinks there must have been a screw
loose somewhere. Directly betting opened, the public
grabbed twos and threes to one ravenously about Reel,
and hungered for more. Then they saw her gradually re-
cede till the fall of the flag, when 15 to 1 could have been
had for the asking. She was bred at Wilton Park, N.S.W.,
by Sam. Hordern, and cost 130 gs. as a yearling. Lyd-
dite is a beauty to look at—fine and well-shaped—but ran
freen. He first saw the light at Newminster Park (Vic.),
arnshaw bought him for 57£gs.
• • • *
Imported sire Gossoon also supplied a winner in
fhe handsome black Trinidad, who snared the Novice
Handicap. Trinidad’s price was “ write your own ticket”
in a good betting event, and he scraped in a nose to the
good.
* ♦ * *
Gut of the mass of in-and-out running at Rand-
wick, there was at least one consistent neddy in Broker-
age. Brokerage, a plain-looking gelding, by the Broker,
won the Hurdle Race on the first day ; and on the second
started at 3 to 1, and beat the even-money favorite, John
Ridd, after the pair had jumped the last hurdle locked '
together.
» * • •
Brokerage gathered in the two hurdle events at
recent S.T.C. Anniversary meet, not so much by his own
brilliance as by plain, honest plodding and the want of
speed on the part of the other hurdle nags. A horse that
can peg along at an average pace over jumps and have
“ a bit to pull out ” at the finish can always win a jump-
ing event or two in Sydney, as the local hurdlers
making up the. fields are mostly so dead-beat at the end
that a fairly smart foot-policeman could pick them up at
the home-turn and beat them up the straight. .
* • * - * , »
That useful, as well as ornamental, animal the
trotting horse receives his usual attention on the Royal
Agricultural (Sydney) Easter show programme. Special
prizes of £_2 and £lO will be given for harness and
saddle exhibitions respectively, and trotting ponies of 14
hands and under are to get the unusually liberal prizes of
£io each for saddle and harness competitions.
Rowing races at the Sydney Anniversary
Regatta have ever been a rough and tumble, but on
l was worse than usual, and it was more by good
juck than management that the various crews completed
tne course. The all-comers’ handicap, in best boats, was
wonby C. Towns, lOsec. behind. Harry Pearce, who has
thickened out into a 12st. man, rowed a splendid race,
oii 6 j ec ', P rove d too much to pull up and he finished
second. Amongst the amateurs, Glebe won the senior
tours from Sydney and Mercantile crews, but the
rowing all round was poor, even allowing for the lumpy
water. Glebe also won the junior fours, and the crew
showed form much in advance of their seniors. Amateur
J. J. Daley, of the M.R.C., again showed himself a sterling
sculler, when, starting 75 seconds behind scratch, he
rowed his club mate, Lichtscheindl, who was on the limit,
to a standstill. Lichtscheindl had a bit to the good at the
nnish, but he passed the wrong side of the judge and
Daley was awarded the race. Daley is looked upon by
judges of the game as the Lest amateur of his weight the
port has produced. In the second-classall-comers’ sculling
nandmap, old-time sculling names were much in evidence.
The places were filled by Messenger, Hickey and Pearce
respectively.
* • # *
36-footer Rainbow, sailed by her owner,
Mr. A. H Pittar, won the interprovincial yacht race at
jdney Anniversary Regatta on Friday last. Comparing
times and including her allowance of 4.9, Rainbow had in
hand ennn, 29sec. from White Wings (second boat), which
beat Clnnnery s Bona by 43sec. All the crew (excepting
one) of the winning craft were Maorilanders. The three
placed yachts are up-to-date in design. W. Fife, junr.,
turned out White Wings ; Charley Bailey built Bona, and
Messrs. Logan Bros, constructed the Rainbow. Last-
named yacht is a beauty, and about the best vet put
together by her builders. Over the Manly-Watson’s Bay-
S, o"lV*o course O' miles) she dead-heated with Bona in
..S.\.S. event on Saturday.
*.* * •
Inter-provincial yacht race — M.L. craft, Rain-
bow, verms Sam. Hordern’s (Sydney) White Wings—
sailed over best portion of a 22-mile course in Sydney
*™™ r (Monday) created great interest and produced one
of the most exciting struggles ever seen in Port Jackson.
Conditions were “best and best” and a level start.
Properly speaking, Rainbow should have had 6mins. from
the Sydney-owned yacht. White Wings led from start to
finish, and ultimately crossed the line 40secs. to the good
after as hot a contest as could be desired. Not at any
time was there COsecs. difference between the two. This
was the first of three events between the Auckland flier
and Mr. Hordern’s crack boat. Good judges opine that
the stiff nor’-easter aided the winner, and given less
boisterous weal her the M.L. champion may get even and
perhaps win the rubber. Still, there’s nothing like having
one in hand.
* • • •
“The Poet” (so named because of a one-time
penchant for letting his raven locks lengthen out at their
own sweet will and hang in waves over his shoulders) and
that dandy coon, Tom Mitchell, put up a great battle at
Metropolitan A.O. (Sidney) last week. Spectators num-
bered over 1200. From “ Time ! ” the black had the
better of things, with the exception of the third round,
during which “The Poet” seemed to more than hold his
°' vn - Throughout the eight rounds fought the genius of
the hemp-enclosed square must have been sent into a
star-gazing attitude at least a dozen times, but, nothing
loth, he’d come again full of ginger, while the crowd,
crazed with excitement, barked itself dry. On
occasions Mitchell seemed to weaken, but his extra cleyer-
ness and the persistent piston-rod-like manner in which
that long left of his shot forth kept the enemy out
of distance, and allowed the darkey to pull him-
self together. “ The Poet ” stood a fearful past-
ing, and seemed to fairly revel in it, though
he clinched frequently to recuperate. In the eighth
round neither had too much in him, and it looked as if the
white pug would wear his ink-hued opponent down.
Suddenly Mitchell swung a heavy right that made a deep
impression in the immediate vicinity of “the poet’s” left
optic and tapped the claret freely. The police took a
hand at this stage and the referee declared in favor of
Mitchell, but afterwards called it a draw. These two
different decisions, nearly created a riot. Refereeing
bruising matches is about the last thing men who lose
their heads should tackle. Lion-taming is a milder
occupation.
• * * »
“Ancient”: Went to see “The Poet” and
coJored. Tom MitcheU spar at the Metropolitan Athletic
Glub, Sydney, last week, and was struck by the unfair
treatment meted out to Mitchell by the crowd—same
sort of crowd that was so keen in the old days over the
applying of the color line to Peter Jackson by the
Yankees. From the word go there was but one man in
it, and that was Mitchell, who showed himself to be a
clever, hard-hitting, two-handed fighter. For eight
rounds, the referee had an exciting time of it breaking
the Poet from a chronic clinch, and the white man’s
countenance by that time being anything but a poem the
referee stopped the fight, and declared in favor of
Mitchell. Mitchell fought a good-tempered battle, in
lace of the unfair barracking of the crowd, which was
sufficient to cow any but a cool-tempered customer
• • * *
„ Hegarty-Napier scrap at Sydney Opera House,
Monday night, for the featherweight supremacy of the
provinces proved a huge disappointment. It was a one-
man affair from end to end. N.S.W. nine-stoner Napier
simply wasn’t in it for a moment at any stai e ; not be-
cause the Victorian is a marvel or even extra good (he
isn’t) but for the simple reason that Napier never once
made a serious fight of it, and kept jigging away as best
he could from every blow or attempted blow, grinning
cheerfully the while. Hegarty shaped in a peculiar O'ouch-
iim style, eyes fixed on his man’s stomach and swinging
blmd-eyers for the head every now and again—some of which
landed but most of which didn’t. By-and-by, blood
trickled from Napier’s right ear, then it came from the
left, and later, gushed over the sinister visual organ as
the result of a deep cut on the eyebrow, alongside which a
lump about the size of a plum appeared soon afterwards
that gnn no longer suffused Napier’s countenance - it gave
place to a senous-anxious expression, and small wonder
Once Napier sent a half-hearted right home on the
stomach; and the Sydney chalk-and-water trade, whose
champion he is, and who formed a big section of the big
house, cheered wildly. That was the only opportunity
the vendors of cow-fluid had to enthuse. Hegarty keiit
on punching when, where, and how he wished, and
Napier jigged until towards the end of the seventh round
when a right hook in the ribs at close quarters sent him
’ to the boards for Ssecs. He assumed the perpendicular
dazed. Hegarty watched his chance, and, landing a
right cross fair and square on the point, put an end to the
farce. Even money and odds of 6 to 4on Hegarty were
taken before operations commenced, after which two’s
and threes (in hundreds, if wanted) failed to evoke a
response. The weights of the men were—Napier Bst
1211 b. ; Hegarty, Bst. 121 b. “.Cocker” Tweedie chat
!enged either or both ; it is likely that he and Hegarty
will be matched this week. 8 y
* * • • ’
“ Old Timer ”: Saw Tim . Hegarty (Vic.) and
Hughie Napjer (N.S.W.) battle for the “ Feather” cham-
pionship at Sydney Opera House Monday night, and came
away with about 700 others Chock-full of disgust. Griffo
in his. day would have gone through twenty of either in
the one ring. Napier appeared every day of 40 and
were one to consider only his grey head (at least it looked
grey in that light) and old man chivvy, there was ample
reason to think him 50. Hegarty seemed a boy
alongside the New South Welshman. The Victorian
did his utmost to make a fight of it, but the other
was apparently averse to needless and ungentlemanly
violence, or was afraid to hit out for fear of leaving him-
self more open. Only four times throughout the seven
rounds did Napier attempt to do anything dreadful. He
acted as if scared by Tim’s reputation, and had evidently
made up his mind to keep as far away as possible
Hegarty is no champion—no, not by a long way. He
leaves himself very open, times badly, and whenever h*
hits out of distance, rarely moves back to avoid
the onslaught which should come from his opponent,
but never came from Napier. Tweedie and Hegarty
will be matched, and writer thinks that if the Sydney
Rocks boy doesn’t lose his head he’ll go very close to
settling the Victorian’s hash. Latter’s crouching habit
and fashion of keeping his eyes almost on the floor will
always get him into difficulties whenever he faces a clever
man ; but that’s the thing —have we any clever men (as
we knew them 10 years ago) nowadays ?
* * * *
“Z.”: Re featherweight championship battle.
When Napier fought Powell, six or seven years ago,
Powell broke one of Napier’s left ribs, leaving it weak
ever since. In the second round of Monday night’s affair
Hegarty got on to the same spot, causing another frac-
ture, which was intensified by a severe blow in the seventh
turn. This may in part account for Napier’s poor dis-
play.
* * » »
M'Farland and M‘Donald, winner and runner-
up for the Brighton (Sydney) wood-chopping handicap on
Anniversary Day, are two typical specimens of the young
athletic Australian native. Each stands over Oft., straight
as a gun-barrel, and weighs in the neighborhood of!3st.
of bone and sinew. M'Donald recently won a sculling
handicap, under the tuition of old-time Elias Laycoek,
and that veteran considers that if the game were now
worth the candle—which it isn’t—there are the makings
of a rowing champion in this long axeman.
* * • •
N.S.W. half-mile champion swimmer Bond
r ' n i exe d the quarter-mile supremacy of Victoria at St.
Ivilda Baths (Melbourne) Saturday last, beating previous
holder (Maynard) by 40yds. in 6min. 30sec. Dick Cavill
won mother-province’s quarter-mile premiership this
season in 6. / 3-5, and that of Australasia, at Redfern (Svd-
ney), Jan. 10, in 6.1-1-5. Lane (N.S.W.) covered the dis-
tance in 5.54 1-5. World’s fastest is 5.43 1.5. Times men-
t'oned show the wide difference between the quality of
N.S.W. and Victorian swimmers. Bond is a son of War-
rant-Officer Bond, now with N.S.W. Army Medical Corps
m South Africa.
* * * *
Although a new Bonnor has not yet been dis-
covered, there isn’t much doubt that the younger
N.S.W. batsmen are a heap more dashing than'the old
hands. Like Hopkins’ recent effort against S.A., young
Huff s knocking up of 75 in his first innings against Vic-
toria was a fine exposition of free, vigorous batting.
Going in when six Cornstalk wickets were down for 105
when a rot was on and cramped batting would have been
understandable he cracked out confidently from the
jump ; and when he left, slightly over an hour later, the
score was 242. Duflt, like clubmate Hopkins, hits every-
thing, and hits it hard. And it is the right thing to do,
* or ’ T lth present-day fielding, if you do give a chance
a u* behind it, the odds are a crown to a
shirt-button on its being dropped.
* * * *
„ Young Vic. Trumper is about the only
N.S. Wales batsman who has played in first-class cricket
for any length of time without losing his dash. He
showed more strokes, in his little first-innings total of 31
against Victoria, than most bats could make if they were
at the wickets for a week. His affection for the “ pull ”
again got him out. Gregory, who totted up a common-
place 66 with the aid of luck, also got out through
attempting to pull, and it’s time some friend told him
cnat he s not a champion exponent of this stroke The
respective first-innings efforts of Donnan and Noble were
hopeless displays. <• Mary Ann,” who was a grand hard-
ii 1 the delusion that he is a champion stone-
waller struck him, making the crowd groan with his
pottering. “Bill” Howell slogged up 31 “quick and
f? 6 llas Collt racted of endeavoring
to bustle the field and make the crowd laugh by running
out of his crease after every stroke lost him his wicket.
Graham fielded smartly and knocked the wicket down
before Jim could flounder back.
* * *
Hugh Trumble’s 87 in Victoria’s first innings
said a lot for his admirers’ claim that he is the best all-
-Australian cricketer. When everyone was funking
left-hander M Beth, old Hughie put himself in and played
out time. Then he set out next morning and knocked
the long colt off. He also reached out and knocked off
Noble and Billowell, and generally smoothed out the
f° r those that came after. Trumble notched
78 whilst Graham was amassing 30. Another improved
bat is lanky Victorian Laver (whose fielding at point, by
the way, was excellent). Scientifically, Laver’s strokes
are incorrect, but they all count in the total.
* * * *
Middle Stump ” : As a casual spectator of
most big matches since the days of “ Garden Honey,” and
the old scoring-card and a pencil,” and Murdoch, the
vampire bat (when he made his 321), and Dave
Gregory, and Nat. Thompson, and others now gone to
rest or the members’pavilion, please allow me to enter a
mdd protest against the revival of the dreary “off-
theory. 1 here was a time when “off-theory” was
fashionable, and the wicket an incident to be
disregarded except, perhaps, once in an over ; but of late
years. Heaven be praised! it is considered no disgrace to
aim at the stumps, and not the Paddington Town Hall or
™ e butts, with the result that maiden overs are fewer
and the weariness of the tired public less. After watching
Noble bowling to Laver for some hours last Saturday
(they seemed hours, anyway)—Noble scientifically, over
after over, avoiding the wickets, and Laver with equal
patience avoiding the ball—it struck me that Ranii’s
barrackers must be dead. Give us a bowler who bowls
at the wicket, I say. Off theory may be scientific—per-
sonally, I think .it is a fallacy—but, on the other hand,
there is a suspicion of gate-money attaching to the prac-
tice if indulged in to any extent.
* » * *
The Sydney League intends holding another
senes of night meetings on the Sydney Cricket Ground,
the dates fixed upon being the sth, 7th and 12th of Feb-
ruary. Acetylene gas will again be used for illuminating
the grounds. e
* * # #
Among the distinctive features of Dunlop
Tyres, which have made them popular amongst Aus-
tralian cyclists, is their simplicity of attachment and
repair. The rider soon gains confidence in a tyre he is
thoroughly able to understand. Should any cyclist be
not quite clear on any point in the management of pneu-
matic tyres he cannot do better than apply to any of the
Dunlop Company’s depots for a copy of their new artistic
booklet, winch is posted gratis by the big tyre company.
There was much trouble on the track at a small
Vic. bike tournament lately. In the principal scratch
event of the day, after a tough struggle, one amongst the
six Men fighting- out the finish came a cropper 20vds.
from the chalk mark, and his machine shot out gaily and
won by a wheel entirely on its own, falling about 15yds
beyond the scratch. The man who fell claimed the prize
for his bike, and the judge, being a nervous, unstable sort
of a person, gave him the race. Then all the furies broke
loose, and the matter was argued till the judge escaped
from the contention ma, buggy and left things unsettled.
With the holiday season coming on, and num-
bers of people either going themselves or sending their
families to the mountains, the enterprising burglars’ har-
vest has begun. Provident people, however, are provid-
ing against his visits by storing their valuables—plate,
jewellery, papers, &c.-at the Sydney Safe Deposit, Ash!
street (back of Paling s), and business there is proportion-
ately brisk. We would recommend Bulletin readers to
call and inspect the massive vaults, and ascertain terms
for storage. Safes may now be rented upon reduced
terms, and boxes are received for storage at very moder-
«v6 rates.
At Poverty Point.
George Rignold’s final departure from the stage is again
postponed. “ Henry V.” is to be revived at Her Majesty**
(Sydney) under Williamson’s management.
“ Cecil P.” : Shakespeare was a prophet as well as a
dramatist, and an alleged eryptogrammer and a Bacon.
Look how he foreshadowed the coming of Brassey when
he wrote : “ O, what a falling-off was there ! ”
January 3f>th is the date of a complimentary benefit to
Ilollingshead at the London Empire. Ghosts and ghost-
esses appear in the shape of Nellie Farren, Kate Vaughan,
Edward Terry, and Royce, disentombing a scene from one
of the Gaiety burlesques.
Maskelyne, the London showman, has just been had
for a bit. He advertised, offering £SUO to anybody who
could do his most recent box trick. Two rivais laid their
heads together and did it to perfection. Maskelyne tried
to wriggle out, because they had not exactly the same
apparatus. The Law Courts decided against him. He
carried the case on appeal to the highest tribunal, and
has again lost. The verdict and costs came to something
immense, over this luckless challenge.
The practice of throwing coins on the stage is making
the position of the mummer or mummeress almost as
dangerous as that of the soldier charging in face of the
Boer rifles. Miss Maud Williamson, nearly murdered
with half-a-crown at Adelaide Theatre Royal, is only one
of many wounded in the cause. One girl at Melb. Bijou
has thrice bled for England, and in London a singer had
her set of teeth smashed and driven down her throat by
a penny 7 . Will portion of the Patriotic Fund be devoted to
these “ sufferers?”
Wonderful how the New Yorkers preserve their old en-
thusiasm for Irving and Ellen Terry 7. The long-haired
tragedian is said to be losing his magnetic force, and fair
Ellen is now a faded elderly performer of young-girl
characters, as a rule ; but their latest season of three
weeks at the Knickerbocker Theatre, N.Y., yielded 80,000
dollars—say, £5350 per week. Which goes to explain the
rampant jingoism of English actors, “ star ” or otherwise.
The bigger and richer the English-speaking world the
wider their sphere of possible operations. Irving pro-
bably looks forward to making a triumphal tour of South
Africa on his last legs.
Things_have reached such a pitch in Sydney that a
nigger and an Arab have been assaulted on suspicion of
being Boers. Also, Alderman M‘El hone has had dark
premonitions that organist Wiegand (despite the fact that
he conies from a country which had to fight the Dutch to
recover its independence, and which loathes them with a
fine large, robust, political and religious loathe) is a Boer
sympathiser, and he woke up Sy 7 dney 7 City Council the
other day to draw attention to the fact that Wiegand had
neglected to play “ Rule Britannia” at one of his concerts.
Wiegand was excused, because it was proved that he
meant to play “ Rule Britannia,” only someone (probably
a traitor) supplied the wrong music. Anyone who lets
two hours pass just now without playing or singing “ Rule
Britannia ” is liable to find the clouds of suspicion gather-
ing thickly round his head.
A quaint little piece of snobbery bobs up in a Hobart
Mercurv advt.
JHEATRE ROYAL.
At the performance of THE MIKADO Opera to take
place on TUESDAY, 23rd, in aid of the Patriotic
Fund, also on WEDNESDAY, 24th (Regatta Night),
Ladies occupying the Dress Circle are particularly re-
quested to wear their Smartest Evening 1 Dress, and
m a small way give the Theatre the appearance of a
miniature London Opera House, where the beautiful
costumes and brilliant display of jewels are a feature
of the entertainment. Dress in Stalls is optional, but
ladies are expected to remove Hats or Bonnets.
Their smartest evening dress 1 Alas, though the Tassy
girl has generally two plump white shoulders, she has
only one evening dress to uncover them with. Which is
the reason why the bloated person from this side should
go over there and marry her oftener and buy her the
clothes she deserves.
In the natural course of things Miss Alice Simmons,
lately an almost first-class singer in Melbourne and Syd-
ney, has made a “hit” at one of the principal London
variety theatres. _ Alice Simmons has a good Australian
voice, better trained than most of the twenty or more
other Australian platform voices which might now go
Ome and begin to earn a respectable salary within a
month of their arrival. A fair idea as to the difference in
cahbre between the average English professional music-
all balladist and the Australian ditto could be gathered
from the warbling of the two Sisters Somebody imported
here by Rickards a while ago. They were duettists, and
the small soprano sister came on to the stage like a steam-
tug towing the tall contralto sister into position. They
sang very sweetly and neatly together, but their indivi-
dual volumes of sound were no larger than a—well, a
sixpenny novelette. This country contains any number
of sisters who could be trained to sing spots off those
quiet—and somewhat scared-looking—visitors.
“Hermes”: When Shakespeare (front name William)
wrote Romeo and Juliet” he made Romeo wreck his
own and everybody else’s prospects by being in a hurry,
and resorting to desperate measures too previously.
When Hardy wrote his “Tess of the D’Urbervilles ” he
made Angel Clare a conceited young prig, who caused
general misery by 7 always doing the right thing too late.
Angel started wrong by making his confession after
instead of oefore marriage. It was a splendid idea to
make a clean breast of the past—before marriage : but it
was internal idiocy after, when it could only do harm. Then,
when that astounding fool realised that a girl like Tess
was well worth having, even if she had 17 pasts, he didn’t
succeed m making up his mind to come home and get her
till the other fellow had got her before him. When he had
got back and found her utterly miserable and the other
fellow helplessly drunk, and a little persuasion would have
f*■ n 11 had to go out and moon about till she
killed the beery 7 Alec, and then he rushed in and wanted
to forgive everything. I cursed him out loud when he
went out to make a fool and a procrastinator of himself
tor the last tune, and an unknown lady sitting beside me
gripped my elbow and swore at him too. The acting is
splendid, but the play is a botch. The material is as good
as that of Mrs. Tanqueray,” but it is utterly spoiled in
the making, and it speaks volumes for Edith Crane, and
Kingston and Power, that they make such a crude raw-
meat drama so horribly fascinating. And the best thing
ahout the play is the moral: When you have got a mag-
nificently beautiful girl, never mind about her past: be
happy, and thank Heaven that the present and the future
are yours.
Demise, Kontski, the pianist.
about “Little Christopher Columbus,” at
Melb. Royal, is the little burst of applause that happens
every night when O’Hooligan appears as the bogus Gover-
n.or i° f A n . his oockecl hat, scarlet coat, blue-velvet
ikw m the 4 . - voun g man suggests a field-marshal of
the Wellington period—hence the hand-claps, probably.
He appeals to the jingo soul. They accept him as a sort
of invitation to rally round the Hempire, and a hero and a
brother, and all that sort of thing.


V
A “SPANKING”
Good . . .
Tobacco!
&
Be sure
you ask for
j
IT BEATS THEM ALL.
COUNTRY FOLK
WILL BE INTERESTED . .
TO LEARN
That we are arranging for local representation and stocks of P.&B. Ruberoid, etc.,
in Country Districts where all P. & B. materials may be obtained at Sydney
Prices plus carriage. We are pleased to announce the following list of District
Agents to which additions will be made from time to time :
District. Agents.
Bathurst
Bourne
Brewarrena
Cobar ..
Dubbo ..
Goulburn
Mudukh
Orange
Parkes
Temora
Warren
Yass ..
E. WEBB & CO.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
E. RICH & CO., Ltd.
GUDGEON & CLIFTON.
J. G. BROWN.
OWEN FURNER.
J. H. MARKS & CO.
F. A. COLLINS.
JOHN WESTCOTT.
JAMES THOM.
ADOLPH ALEXANDER.
THOMPSON & BATES.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there ia
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Elis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor -
GEO. W. ELLIS.
m
tblh
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK (SRIMLEY
Sol* DistribGtiog Agsi)t
for AGStralaSia . . •
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
203-265 Clarence Street, Sydney .
<s>
E. V.FINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants tfc Importers.
Our Specialities are— Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapinjrs, Matlinjr,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNEY MARKET:
The Principal Selling Centre in Australasia .
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
US’ MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application. .
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
PIARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
J. C. YOUNG & CO.
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place East
- Melbourne.
a®* Superior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City.' Within three minuted’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trains, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mra. MCCLELLAND
(nee BOLGER).
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Cardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff 'from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. a. QXJior,
/■ - - LOWER DOMAIN.
JJ-QDG&QX’S
Tales of Medical Students.
By Hodgson, of Sydney. Just Issued.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, 3s. 6d. Post Free, 4s.
Wholesale Agents : Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
TAKE THIS ONE!
This SUSPENSORY will fit you.
It won’t slip or hurt. It will last
longer than any other SUSPENSORY
in the world.
This SUSPENSORY
is made right. Every
buckle, every piece of
elastic, every bit of
material is perfect.
Don’t look at the
price
alone.
Look
also at
what
the
iirice
buys.
? . aV
C
O
TAKE THE O.P.C.
Satisfaction goes with it sure. Recommended by the
Medical Profession throughout the world. Send for
Booklet, FREE.
PRICES.
No. 2 —0.P.0., Lisle Sack, Elastic Bands .. .. 5/-
No. 3 „ Silk „ .... 71-
No. 4 „ ~ „ Silk „ .. .. 9/-
No. 5 „ Fancy „,, Fancy Silk Elastic Bands 12/6
Three Sizes—Large, Medium, and Small.
OF ALL CHEMISTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,
or by post, under plain sealed cover, on Receipt of Price.
I*?- Sold under a positive guarantee to give satisfaction.
BAUER & BLACK, Manufacturers, Chicago, llh, U.S.A.
o““{ 117 Clarence-st., Sydney.
HOMOEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS OF ENERGY, etc.
Has cured Thousands for the BLOOD, SKIN, NERVES,
RHEUMATISM, etc.
“ WORDS OF WISDOM.” This Free Book about the
Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40 pages of
useful information, and will be posted in plain cover
absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address— The Irvine Homoeopathic Co., corner Hunter
and Bligh Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
Amusements.
HEIt MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
SIXTH WEEK SIXTH
AND CONTINUED BRILLIANT TRIUMPH OF
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S 18th XMAS ANNUAL,
the Gorgeous, Spectacular, Comic, Original Pantomime,
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD,
Or, Keeping the Wolf from the Door.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Theatre royal, Sydney.- ~
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., R. Stewart, Senior.
THIS and EVERY EVENING, at 8,
Tc&S of tb€ P’UrbcrvilleS,
. , .interpreted by
Miss EDITH CRANE as TESS
Mr. THOMAS KINGSTON as ANGEL CLARE
Mr. TYRONE POWER as ALEC. D’URBERVILLE
and the Full Strength of
Mr. WILLIAMSON'S DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s and Go.
THEATRE, SYDNEr.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) TO-NIGHT
Last Eight Nights of
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
in the Stupendous Dramatic Success,
THE POWER AND THE GLORY.
Prices as Usual. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.45.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Lessee and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
More Brilliant European Attractions To-day, at the
Matinee. First Appearance of
The Great Amann and 3 Macarte Sisters.
Magnificent Reception, Brilliant Success Nightly,
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS, Mr. G. W. Hunter, Davy's
Marionettes, Noni Rickards, Tod Calloway, Bell Ballet,
and all our Great Tivoli Attractions.
SAME TIVOLI PRICES. .-. Plan at Paling's.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance in Melbourne of those Great Russian
Dancers and Vocalists,
8 Newsky Family 8
TOM COSTELLO, Character Comedian, A Great Success.
LITTLE ALMA GRAY. SPRY and AUSTIN, Wallace
King, Elsie Golding, Will Whitburn, Chas. W. Cogill,
and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE. ~
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS 1
“Little Christopher Columbus.”
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as MRS. BLOCK.
MISS GRACIE WHITEFORD as LITTLE CHRISTOPHER
Full Opera Band—The Excelsior. Troop of Dancers.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’*
In Active Preparation—THE NEW BAR MAID.
Lord Rosebery, it is cabled, says that
Buller’s little defeat at the Tugela River crossing
would, in most other nations, have provoked revo-
lution, and Sydney Telegraph quotes the state-
ment with solemn approval. Only the stolidity of
the British character prevented an upheaval. Yet
Italy suffered far worse defeat in Abyssinia, and
Greece at the hands of the Turks, and Turkey at
the hands of Russia, and Austria at Sadowa, and
before that at Solferino, and Spain in Cuba, and
Denmark in Schleswig-Holstein, and Prussia at
Jena, and Russia in the Crimea, and the Egyptian
dynasty of Mehemet Ali at Navarino —and there
was no revolution. Did Rosebery really make
that amazingly foolish remark, and if so, how
many nations can he quote which revolushed over
a trifling defeat like that at the Tugela ?
Sargood, M.L.C. (Victoria) :
He thought that such men should not be allowed to
draw Government money, and at the same time condemn
the Government which employed them.
But public servants don’t take the Government’s
money, any more than they take the Queen’s
money—M‘Lean and Shiels and the rest of them
haven’t enough money among them to pay the
Vic. public servants for a month. Public officials
take the people’s money, just as the Government
does, and just as the Queen does ; and their duty
is to say and do what they think best for the
people. Also, the public servants are taxpayers
like other people, and instead of taking the
Government’s money the Government takes a lot
of their money. And when the Government
starts to. condemn for their opinions the people
who help so largely to pay its salary it is beastly
ungrateful.
At the recent conference of Premiers,
Philp, of Queensland, tried hard to persuade the
other provinces to join in compensating the New
Guinea Land Grab syndicate for money spent in
trying to surreptitiously acquire, for a mere soug,
the best part of the province, without the know-
ledge and consent of N.S.W. and Victoria, as
required by law. Queensland, according to a
statement made by Dickson in the Assembly, pro-
posed to pay its share of compensation to the bur-
flar for wear and tear of his crowbar in trying to
reak into Australia’s house, but M'Lean, of
Victoria, wisely refused to have anything to do
with the nefarious swindle, and Lyne, of N.S.W.,
declined to move without the consent of Parlia-
ment. Therefore the matter is left to Queensland,
as it should be. The Queensland Government, or
part of it, tried to assist the syndicate in putting
through its steal without the knowledge or con-
sent of the other contributing provinces, and if
anyone is to pay it should be Queensland. Or,
rather, if Queensland decides that anything should
be paid, it should tell ex-Premier Nelson, the man
who seems chiefly responsible, to pay it.
Hobart Mercury’s editorial jingo again
asseverates and reiterates and objurgates:—
We know now, beyond all possible doubt, that the
Transvaal never had the least intention to right the
wrongs, or even to see simple justice done, and we know,
also, which throws a flood of light upon the case, that the
Transvaal had made an alliaifce with the Orange Free
State, with which there was not even a dispute, . . .
Neither Mr. Bryce nor anybody else has one word to say
to this. This alliance was a flagrant violation of the
principle which is universally conceded, that Great
Britain had a veto on the foreign policy of the Transvaal,
and constitutes in itself a casus belli of the most conclu-
sive character. . . . Mr. Bryce says that “ war broke out
before any legitimate casus belli had arisen.” This we do
not admit , for the alliance ref erred to was a casus belli in
■itself.
And yet Clause IV. of the famous 1884 treaty
•expressly states:
IV. The South African Republic will conclude no treaty
or engagement with any other State or Nation, other than
the Orange Free State, nor with any native tribe to the
eastward or westward of the Republic until the same has
been approved by Her Majesty the Queen, etc., etc.
The cause and justification of the war, according
to the fogged philosopher who maunders in the
Mercury, is that the Boers broke an agreement
which they didn’t break at all and which they
couldn’t break in the particular place specified
because bhat place wasn’t there.
David Syme, of the Age, is going on a trip
to Europe shortly : but before he goes he wants to
put in office a Government that will run his Vic-
toria the way he likes it run during his absence,
The Age has already declared that the M‘Lean-
Shiels Ministry must go, yet a recent leading article
appears to intimate that David isn’t going to put
Turner back into office. “The Turner Govern-
ment,” it said, “is gone, never to return.” Poss-
ibly this only means that Turner, when he returns,
must have a new Government, but it reads very
like the definite and peremptory sack,
The proposal to send Federal and anti-
Eederal delegates to London recalls the incident
c f Graham Berry and Professor Pearson’s visit
there, as a delegation from Victoria in the inte-
rests of Council reform. Melbourne Tories, by
wa Y °, f burlesque, induced “ Africanus” Ilender-
son, the black political spouter and agitator with
~ u Q f £ OMnrYlO
th< ? shocking l white hat, to assume the role of dele-
gate m their interests. Ihe charcoal gentleman
se riously. He was banquetted, had
a com Pl e^e )' rar(^ro be given him, and money for
expenses. T hen a hitch occurred The P. and 0.
Company refused to take the African burlesque
a P as senger by the boat in which Berry and
b earsor f .travelled. There was no other boat for
?ome time-steamers went at ong intervals in
bh° s ® Henderson obviously couldn t row to
England fast enough, and the idea that he might
by schooner to Malacca and run in his bell-
topper across Asia appeared too wild. So a large
joke fell through over a small matter. _
One of the chief attractions of the Kiama
Show last week was the acetylene gas exhibits of
Messrs.- Brandt Bros., Lamp Manufacturers, of
Sydney and Melbourne, who were showing their
latest generators for house lighting, as well as
ace tyl e ne gas carriage, table, hand, and shoulder
lamps for bandsmen; Self-lighting bike lamp-no
ma tches required. Hand ice-making machines 50s,
butter _ coolers and meat fes worke % b capil i ar y
actiou of water 5 10 i ss . Send for Catalogue*
. . _ _?
Artless telegram to Sydney Daily Tele-
graph :
DROWNING FATALITY.
COROWA, Wednesday.—A man, name unknown, was
dvo wned in the Murray River yesterday afternoon. De-
ceased is understood to have been drinking during the
morning. He went bathing with two companions, and
after swimming about the bank made off as if to cross the
river. When in the middle of the stream he was seen to
smk > and d ! d . n ° l con . ,e tO . th l su f fa . ce a f ain ; The P ol '? e
are en = a = ed ln dra £» m ? for the body of the deceased, who
was a foreigner, and is said to ham exvressed pro-Boer
sentiments in very strong language before going in for a
swim.
If a casual baby-drunk breaks a window these
times it is generally stated in the police report that
he was a “pro-Boer.” The Telegraph now goes
a step further, and tries to clear the character of
the Australian loyalist even from suspicion of the
x/i// ® ei . n " drowned proves
that the deceased wasn t loyal. No loyal person
would be “ a dem’d moist unpleasant body/


WHEAT SEASON, 1899-1900
AIL Grain held in Trust on Account of
Consignors .
Storage Accommodation—Spacious and Unrivalled.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
LIBERAL CASH ADVANCES.
New Zealand Loan &• Mercantile
Ag-ency Co., Ltd.
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or *
Zonophone.
J Price, £7.
Carriage Paid.
THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing- to g-et out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List- FREE.
Also on Sale —
-1 Edison Cinematographe complete and 1C
Films, £5O.
1 Cinematographe and 10 Films, £35.
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune for a
smart man.
2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Jiay Outfits, complete.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia—EPlSON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
Removed to 1 and 3 Rowe Street.
IP. J. y. Older share, Manager.
(120 PITT STREET), SYDNEY (ONLY).
Nearly opposite G.P.O.
NEVER LOSE SIGHT OF THIS POINT:
“PURE BLOOD IS THE FOUNDATION
OF GOOD HEALTH.”
A Thorough Beautifies of the Complexion.
A TESTIMONIAL OF VERY GREAT INTEREST TO LADIES.
To Mr, S. A. Palmer.
• I ?i ear u Slf ’ 14 is Wlth £ reat P lea sure that I add my testimonial to the many others you have
received about your wonderful remedy, VITADATIO. For nearly two years I have suffered
with an eruption of the skin, and have tried
all sorts of remedies without avail. After much
persuasion I resolved to try a course of
VITADATIO, and I am thankful that I did
so, for the results have been beyond my
expectations. My many friends cannot fail to
notice the great change in my skin. Hoping
others may benefit by this,
I remain, yours sincerely,
MAY SMITH.
46 Finlay Street, Albert Park.
Thousands
Recommend
Webber's
Purely Herbal
PRICE : s/6 and 3/6. Obtainable Everywhere.
!'v
V.
THE OWL
CUT 3EI.A.TES
Consulting and
<0
DRUG CO.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
TOE CELEBRATED CURE POR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, £1; Cut Price, 18s. 6d.
Dr. CLARKSON'S
fs
Is the acme of perfection. It is the best nerve,
blood and brain tonic that medicalscience can pro-
duce, and is specially intended for men suffering from
nervousness,, absence' of mind, loss of vital force,
weakness of intellect, loss of will power, &c., &c., and
has never been known to fail. As a tonic for the
nerves it has no equal.
The weakness and emaciation resulting from dis-
sipation and excesses leads on to paratyiss,
epilepsy, consumption, insanity, and many bodily
diseases, through the poorness of the blood, the outcome
of these indiscretions and youthful folly.
Vital Weakness is a trouble that causes the utmost
unhappiness, being the forerunner of despondency,
melancholia, irritability, dislike of company, restless-
ness, and finally insanity and suicide. It may not
show itself in a pronounced form, till you have reached
the prime of Life. What is more disappointing and
disastrous than to find yourself decaying and prema-
turely old when .the fullness of vigor and virility should
mark every feature of your manhood ?
Dr. Clarkson’s Reirivigorator is the , only reliable
remedy. It replenishes all wasted substance, makes the
bodily organs sound, and the brain active and prolific.
By its equalising action on the circulation it strength-
ens every part of the body, disposes of adipose tissue
and'replaces it with muscle of iron-bound mettle. Men
of every age who have given it a trial declare it to be the
most wonderful medicine ever placed before the
public.
Complete Exhaustion.— Thousands in our midst
to-day complete exhaustion, and collapse With
heart palpitation after ordinary exertion. A few bottles
of the Reinvigorator will absolutely cure this weak-
ness.' While you hesitate your case is getting worse, and
every day’s delay brings you nearer to the grave.
Kidney and Bladder Complaints.—ln these
dreadful complaints no medicine ever used has done so
much for our suffering people as Dr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator. Australians are the greatest sufferers
from kidney complaints and diseases. Bright’s disease is
the worst of all. You may have it without knowing the
fact. Therefore be on the safe side; take the Rein-
Vi«°r at °r and destroy the earliest germs of the malady
The Reinvigorator used for all bladderand kidney
affections has proved a wonderful success, as our testi-
monials attest. The slightest irritation of the kidneys
may poison the blood and charge it with uric acid. This
brings on rheumatism, ‘liver congestion, giddiness
lassitude, &c., if not taken in time, weakens both bladder
and kidneys, and paVes the way to Bright's Disease and
kindred troubles.
Astounding Results.— The greater the weakness
ana exhaustion thfe more astounding is the beneficial
action of Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator. People af-
fected by nervousness exhibit no marked outward sign of
it, but they knofr themselves they are suffering from it.
The heart never fails to remind them ; sudden starts dur-
ing sleep, fear of death, ugly dreams, wakefulness and
that tired feeling on rising in the morning. Ail this and
more is easily cured by the Reinvigorator.
Charlatans and Humbugs.— You are only wast-
ing time and money consulting a class of persons who
advertise worthless nostrums which aggravate your com-
plaint or disease. We hear pitiful stories from patients
who have been grossly deceived and cruelly wronged in
this way. Their regret is sad and deep that they did not
from the very first take the Reinvigorator. After
taking it no words can express their unbounded delight
at being fully restored to health and vigor.
Cures speak for themselves and we can show you
the proofs of them. Begin the Reinvigorator at once and
prepare for a Happy Xmas and a New Year of
real life and pleasure.
Price—One bottie, 7s 6d ; three bottles, 20s.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea .
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST FREE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the Insane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
The enormous sale of these world-famed Electric
Belts is the surest guarantee of their efficiency. No man
or woman should be without one. They are infallible
against colds, rheumatism, influenza, sciatica, pains in
the back and loins, etc.
Modern Science has achieved nothing- more valu-
able in the interests of suffering humanity during the
century. The Electro-Band is constructed on the most
scientific principles, causing a gentle current to pass
along the nerves and through the body in a genial and
continuous stream, infusing new life and vigor and toning
up the system in a speedy and permanent manner.
Current Conductors.— By means of the silk-
covered metallic Electrical Conductors the current is
conveyed to silvered discs, and through them into the
body. The more animal magnetism or electricity a
person is possessed of, the more life and energy there is
in the system.
Conjoint Action. —Aided so ably by Dr. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator the Electro Band acts like magic, and its
comfort is known only to those who have the wisdom to
possess and wear one. The temperature of the system
is maintained throughout, and the kidneys and liver are
protected against chills, inflammation, and congestion.
A Good Belt is worth its weight in gold. The
Electro-band differs from the common and worthless
article so extensively advertised to combat and cure
everything. What we claim for the genuine Electro-
band has been positively proved in hundreds and thou-
sands of instances.
Liver and Stomach.— The action of the electric
current on the liver and stomach is one of the great
charmsof the Electro-Band. It has been scientifically
shown that the remedy most required to afford speedy
and effective assistance to the digestive organs and give
energy to the muscular and nervous systems is the
Electro-Band. The genial current prevents the food
from being a load on the stomach and sets up a nutritive
action, than which nothing is more beneficial.
A Trying winter.— Our customers, who safe-
guarded their constitutions with the Electro-Band
during the past trying and damp winter months, are
effusive in their praise of these Belts. Not one solitary
person who wore the Belt as directed and took the
Reinvigorator suffered the slightest effects of the
moisture and cold. What more could be desired ?
Voluminous Evidence.— The Testimonials, both
oral and written, that we have received, give the
Electro Band the premier place among all competi-
tors. “ I would rather have the Electro Band than
a small fortune,” says one of the testifiers of its excellence
—“ because I know my health and strength are assured.”
Yes 1 what is of more value than health ? A fortune is no
good without the health to enjoy it.
Worthless Belt’. -Throw off the worthless belts
and wear only our Electro Band. Prolong your life !
Postpone old age !
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Dr. Hughes’s Fitsepilep.
'This Celebrated RE MM I) Y FOIt EPILEPSY AND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of the asre.
So Successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects —
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, ss. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free
• •
Pyramid. Pile Cure.
This is the latest specific for CIJRTNG HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic and obstinate character of
INWARD or OUTW ARD PILES readily yield tb this improved mode of treatment. Price 3s. fid. per box or 3
boxes for 10s. Postage fid. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give ADVICE to ALL OUR PATRONS
ERER OE CHARGE. On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
I
0
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney
Trial Order respectfully Solicited.


Hht R3SSn){iSS€i)’S Alfalioc Herbal RenjedteS.
TVTore marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
a Great Cure at the ivauhoe How to ol)tain “ Alfaline Guide to Health’’-Free.
Mine. ■
'
Mr. U. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness of the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12,1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned -the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I v\as thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oesefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen. . ■ „„
Dear Sir. -Your wonderful Alfahre Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours vervtruly,
IOM AllllJNo.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear .Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had fried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of, suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
POST OFPI
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
aif aline VITALITY PILLS
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND *SKIN DISEASES They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 135., postea x
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Poweiful Double
Course. 435. 6d.
ALF ALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING...
Patrons o f Herr Rass-
mus-sen’s A If aline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed uponby_
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
’are Herr Rassmus-_
sen, or Herr Rass-
mussen's authorised
agents —which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his ReUKCkes,
neither has he autho-~
vised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
Herr Rassmussev, Up-to-JDate Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alj'aiiue Remedies.
I
MPORTRNT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE lOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RasSHIUSSen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSHIUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered-
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
ADVKC FREE.
Mr. THOMAS M.UDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
streefc Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory fgKgg Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: —
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILI.S,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stouiest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - a Wonder-
ful Remedy for t oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s..and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d. i;,
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder-Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is, 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
•pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender jmparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
.as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Hassmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., S!IDII6y,
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS :
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Rundle-street (near York Hotel)
df
KALGOORLIE Hanuan-st. (next Lindell’s, Jeweller)
MENZISS ... ... Shenton-street (opposite FO )
FREMANTLE Henry-street (near Hig^li-street)
- ■ ■ ■ 1 '


NOTE
WELL
THIS
MARK.
sd
Trade FOX Mark
fs
dg
df
gdf
g
df
The word FOX is a GUARANTEE of Soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all Worsted Coatings,
Vicunas, Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume Cloths,
on which it is Stamped.
FOX BROTHEFuT& Co., Ltd., <*>
<*> Wellington, Somerset, ENGLAND.
Makers of Worsted Coatings; Vicunas, Serges, Tweeds, Tennis, and Costume Cloths.
Contractors to the English Admiralty, War Office, Ma Office, Crown Colonies, and jlltetropotitan police.
FIIHEIR Mills are capable of an annual production of 2,000,000 yards of material, and find employment for 1,200 hands. Reliable
records show that the business at Wellington was founded early in the eighteenth century, and the present Company have in
their possession a balance sheet dated 1733.
FOXS’ PURE INDIGO.
As the result of many years of experience, FOXS’’ PURE INDIGO DYE is recognised as the best in the Market. The superiority of Pure Indigo over other
dyes may be briefly summed up as follows
FASTNESS OF THE DYE.—lndigotine, the colouring principle of Indigo, is insoluble in water, alcohol, ether, and dilute acids, and alkalies either hot or
cold, its extreme fastness for all conditions of ordinary wear and tear. It is also quite fast to Sunlight, and for an all-round dye there is nothing superior to
it. There is no need to point out the advantage there is in a perfectly fast dye, as compared with one which may be fast to light, but will not stand perspiration, or
washing, or vice versa.
STRENGTH AND HANDLE.—CIoth dyed Pure Indigo is stronger and tougher than the same cloth dyed in other ways, owing to the dye-bath being at
a comparatively low temperature, and the absence of any injurious chemicals or mordaunts. In almost all other dyes, the cloth is first boiled in the mordaunt and
<hen in the dye for some hours altogether. This always impoverishes the wool fibre, and destroys much of its natural lustre and softness, whereas the Indigo Vat
—rith its soft, mellow liquor, adds to the fulness and richness of the fabric. Indigo Dyeing being a mechanical process rather than a chemical one, actually feeds the cloth.
JLU their standard cloths are stamped ©very -two yards on. the back,
FOX FURIi INrHIGO,
• • and without this stamp are not; Genuine.
These Celebrated Serges can be obtained from the leading Tailors and Drapers throughout the Australian Colonies.
See For yourselves that the Serge is stamped—FOX PURE INDIGO, —as many dealers for the sake of an
extra profit try to sell inferior-dyed cloths, remarking “that they are just as good as Pure Indigo.”
u
7^
in"'
•■•• it
nun
«a'"u
FOX BROS. & Co., Ltd.,
carry out every process themselves, from buying the Wool to making
and selling the Goods, and can therefore guarantee the soundness of the
material and quality of the dye.
FOX BROS. Sc Co., Xitel.,
being the largest Government Serge Contractor in England, can
recommend their Pure Indigo Government Serges for real hard wear.
Their Pure Indigo Dress Serges have everla ting wear. Can be
cleaned again and again, then turned and made up equal to new. Their
Tennis Cloths are quiet in style, and most comfortable as Suitings.
FOX BIROS. Sc Co., Xitel.,
have during the past year brought out an entirely novel Elastic Worsted
Cloth (made from Colonial Wool), registered in England as “ FOBRO.”
“FOBRO”has special qualities as follows : Elasticity and Porosity,
but being woven by a special process will not fray or ravel, no matter
how it is cut. With these special qualities it is particularly adapted for
Shooting, Cycling, Walking, Etc.
Australian Agents for tho Wholesale Trade only-
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, & 422, George St., Sydney.


Business Announcements.
D. Braham&Co.
Tailors*
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER STIITINGrS •
—lmporters op—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Guaranteed to stand Sun and Sea-water.
Sole Agents for
Cellular Underwear.
the only rational form of undergarments for hot weather.
Used by the Army Officers, and Medical Corps
on active service.
SHIRTS OP EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SPECIALTY—THE UNIFORM SHIRT.
PYJAMAS, SOCKS, UNDERSHIRTS AND PANTS,
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
Patterns and Price Lists Post Free.
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
AMUSEMENT for OL.I) and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klond.vke Grub (Which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of vour character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free dn receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716)4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
XJSB
Spooler's
ROYALNAVY DRESSIHC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS St SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
raumiamivunjiioi' l
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled. Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
1 SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
Medical.
I Cure Fits.
You are,
not asked <
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H. G. R00T,28, Endsleigh Gdns., LON DO Ri.
tbs LiqCior Habit.
AN INTERESTING PAMPHLET on the
A. Disease of Drunkenness and its cure by
will be sent free (sealed) on
application to the EUCRASY
CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney, or 271 Collins-
street, Melbourne.
N.B.— Eucrasy is registered by the N.S.W.
Registrar-General at the Trade Marks Office, and
is the only remedy which can be given secretly
(i.e., without the subject’s knowledge) with cer-
tainty of success. '
EOcrasV
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAULT & CO »
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
o
g fg
for all forrtis of
Kidney & Liver Disorders
HH. WARNER & C? LTJ?
MELBOURNE:, AUST.
FREE
PAMPM&T
FROM
RELIABLE FURNITURE !
CARPETS, BEDSTEADS iND BEDDING
AND WHERE TO GET IT.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
CORNER GEORGE AND LIVERPOOL STREETS.
Drawing-room suite,
in Tapestry and Plush, Couoh, Fair Easy
Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for <£3 10s.
60 others, 5, 10, to 20 guineas*
At HALL’Si
t>INING-ItOOM SUITE;
Vety Strong, all Spring-seated arid Padded-
Back Chairs, 6 guineas.
20 others, 7, 12, and 20 guineas;
at HALL’S;
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Colon*,
Wardrobe, Plate-glass Door and Drawers ;
Duchesse Chest Drawers, with glass at-
tached ; Marble-top Washstatid, Towel
Rail, and Cane Chair, >£6 15s.
30 Bfedroom Suites to select from.
Full Size HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Brass Rail, Double-wire Mattress, and
Set Best Bedding, MB 15s.
50 LATEST DESIGN DEDSTEADS
to select from at HALL S.
A; HALL AND COMPANY,
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE FURNISHERS, 561, 563, 565 and 567 GEORGE ST,
Leave Tram or ’Bus at Liverpoqi-street fpr HALL S.
Counti-y Orders packed Free. New Illustrated Furnishing Guide Post rep.
The life of the System.
imiisri.
S. FREEMAN # SONS L!^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
REGISTERED
1
m
e>
iNEFFECTIVECuR!
Flight Ikfiameq Eyes&Uds
Weak Eyes Diknejs E 75
531 GEORGE ST
SYDNEY.
HEP 165
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Classes.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc-
cess on the Byes of
Cattle. Sheep. Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Ito
y;
miums
Ni/>
a
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING {
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by |
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-,
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can j
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia, |
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General \
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, eto., etc., etc. J
t They impart vigor and potency to every function, t
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks aud. a
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted '
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and 4
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands. {
THEY WILL CURE YOU. <
£ s. d.
1 0
1 10
2 2
3 3 0
2 0
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto
Plain Belts, with extra, powerful cells
Extra powerful, with suspensory
aits shments. ~ .. • • • •
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from ~ 15s. to 2_ -
Any of the above-named Electrioa! Applianoes will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON, , „ a
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
Tf WTI.I/#AY YOU TO GO THERE FolloW
the Footsteps of the Wise; and Buy the Best; ea P 1
and most Stylish Clothihg lh Australia froth
Lincoln, Stuart & 00. Proprietary Ltd.
252 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station).
5000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Ohr Stilt to Order, at 42/-;
is marvellous ydluC, marie
ftom All-Wtlbi Ttveetisj Vl-
bunasj or Serges, fast- colorS;
is perfect fitting, beautifully
finished. A Splendid Suit to
Order, from any Class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84 -. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £3.
Golf Or Cycling Suits, 35/-
ftiding Breeches; 23/-. Water-
proof Tweed of Cloth Over-
coats. Band arid other Uni-
forms. Ridirig Habits, etc;
Wesupplyßeady-madeMeri’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 24/-
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits;
Indigo dye, 25/-. - Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over- .
Coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys' Clothing in Australia. Ele-
gant Tennis Shirts from 2,6. Undressed White Shirts,■
Linen Fronts arid Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm Travelling
Hugs, 13 6. Geht's splendid Balmoral Boots, 66, 9/b.
Soft Alpine Hats, 4/6, all colors; Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Ifidiah Pith Helmets, 66. Caps, 1/-. Merino
UnderpaiftS o'r Shirts, 4/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Ntckties, all shapes ahd colors, 1/-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Meastife. And all
classes of Gent.’s jifercery.
We like to write letters, So plfease don t be afraid to asR
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy of Di ess;
also Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,-
posted Free. Write for them.
m •
CALVERT* S
CARBOLIC DISINFE CTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH BOWLER,
OINTMENT, ete„
Are tlie Original and only Reliable,
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protectiori against Infectious Diseases—especially
ih Hot Climates.
Avoid inferior Imitations.
F* 0, Calvert & Co.* Manchester.
TOUCHING . .
H
It allays irritation, and subdues
inflammation.
o
It is unequalled for all skin trouble.
M
It heals Cuts, cures Bruises, Burns,
etc.
o
It cures Ring Worm, Insect Bites
and Stings.
c
It is the best remedy for Piles in the
world.
E
Last, but not least,
A
IT TOUCHES THE SPOT,
Soothes the Aching Part,
and wherever pain Is present Homocea or
Homocea Embrocation should be used.
Sold by all'Storekeepers, General Dealers, and^Chcmists^
“ DOWKLDGE’S
as USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.


Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
B€WAR€ OF COUGHS!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
A Lady in London.
A MARTYR TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITJS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearne. —
“Dear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. —,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. Ido not wish any names to
be mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yoursfaithfully,
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. T — is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS’ TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“ Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’ without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY."
We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it oured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but I am sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. MCDONALD, Trinkey, via
miii-inrli V<2W »>
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Broehit.is Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both.—R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.
‘‘l have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering
Pieiely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
has com-
•• i have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON,- Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
“My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—o. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne."
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.— F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
‘Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
W
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most-
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
n oFv™J ei D pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right oft at once.—
W. bEVIER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
eTPrrvT t , rie i , , ots ofme dicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” • o . j
, , T 1 suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
muTi'T iwmv o ay tha *L l ani astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial.—JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.” *
Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
any good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.—H. HOOD,
►OKlandS. Av OCfli’SCrfiftti Soilfih Mollinnuno
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
_ “ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis. —A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
. Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
™ e i se - lam satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness.—HENßY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
„ , ‘‘ Th . e £°ttle ? f Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
iroinii, via uarlingford, Victoria.
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
~ _ “ 169 Queen -street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
"PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
.... ... ~ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“ We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
"THOMASON, CHATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken
with immediate curative effect.
“lam, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
" Editor Geelong Advertiser.”
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ DOWRIDGE’S”
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
BY
SUPPLIED
ROYAL WARRANT OF APPOINTMENT TO “ THE QUEEN ”
SCHWEPPES
SODA WATER, &c.
TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Ask for
WbiSky afyd
‘Scbwcppe’
Ask for
Braody aod
‘Scbweppe
DA.FTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
near SYD3XTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
or
FINE SILVER.
, >
'■ .
MAKERS OF
“ S, Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
..BKAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER,
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES.
LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinbeeg, Manager The n
H , ne Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
.London Medical Record
FOOD for
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere,
Wholesale of all Wholesale Houses.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
The aged.


SUMMER SORROWS!
DO YOU FEEL LANGUID ?
ABE YOU TIRED AND WEARY?
LACK ENERGY AND PHYSICAL TONE?
IF YOU DO, YOU NEED A COURSE OF
Weak, Weary Women,
HOW YOU SUFFER THIS WEATHER.
ENERGY AND AMBITION GONE.
THE ABOVE ILLUSTRATES A MELBOURNE
MOTHER’S CASE AWHILE AGO.
Summer means agony and suffering to most Aus-
tralian mothers and sisters. Debility follows the
wake of loss of appetite and languor. Complica-
tions peculiar to the sex always crop up if the sys-
tem loses tone, and the inevitable headache, throb-
bing in the temples, heart palpitation, dizziness,
and other female ailments run riot in the body.
Mrs. Laura James, of No. 2 Rae-street, North Fitz-
roy, Melbourne, detailed her sufferings to a re-
porter of the North Melbourne Gazette as follows:
“ For quite ten years,” she began, “ I have been a
sufferer from indigestion and dyspesia, and I feel
sure I would still be enduring agony if I had not
had the good fortune to have Bile Beans. And I
can honestly say that a person suffering as long as I
long suffered would be much better dead than alive.
No food agreed with me. Even liquid nourishment
made me suffer greatly. I dwindled away until I
became a mere skeleton and a burthen to myself
and relatives. About eight months ago a friend
named Mrs. Hood, of Market-street, Fitzroy, ad-
vised me to<try Bile Beans. The first box seemed
to improve me, and, of course, I continued to take
them. My case was a bad one, chronic, and of lone
standing, but with each box my stomach got
stronger, and I was soon not only able to eat a
meal, but to digest it. Altogether I have taken
eight boxes, which have cost me less than a single
doctor’s fee, and I am absolutely and thoroughly
cured. I eat good, hearty meals and enjoy them.
I have no flatulence or heavy feeling in the stomach
afterwards, and as you see have fully recovered
health and strength. I am many pounds heavier
than when I commenced to take Bile Beans, and
am putting on weight daily. In my case the cure
is little short of a miracle, as I was very far gone.
I am deeply grateful for what Bile Beans have done
for me, and will never miss an opportunity to
recommend them to other sufferers."
FOR
SOME HINTS FOR SUMMER WEATHER.
HOW TO KEEP HEALTHY.
General debility is a state which is generally caused by a combination of nervous exhaustion,
indigestion, deranged liver, and constipation. It is brought about by the system becoming run down.
The functions of the body are irregular and weak, the waste matter is not carried off properly, the
blood becomes poor, and the complexion sallow. The whole system, in cases like this, needs “toning
up.” The. diet must be regulated, and a remedy must be taken that will put the digestive organs in
thorough working order. For this work, Bile Beans for Biliousness are the very best specific, as they
act in a gentle manner, and are so compounded that they repair the waste of the nervous system, and
make pure, rich blood. Bile Beans on every hand are effecting cures for debility and all summer
ailments, such as loss of tone, lack of physical force, &c. They will be found an undoubted specific for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Constipation, Pimples, Blotches, Dizziness, Female Ailments, all Liver and
Kidney troubles. Price, 13M. per large box, at all Chemists and Storekeepers. The Australian Depot
Bile Beans Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
An Obstacle to Beauty.
To a pretty girl or a handsome young man
pimples are an abomination. To have perfect
features spoiled by little red blotches all over the
face is exceedingly annoying, to say the least, yet
nearly all young people of the present day are
troubled more or less with this complaint, which
by the way, cannot be treated properly by the use
of cosmetics. The only real remedy for pimples is
the one that
wil prevent
impure matter
circulating in
the blood ves-
sels, and this
can only be
done by acting
on the liver
and various
digestive or-
'gans, enabling
them to clear
all waste mat-
ter out of the
body. This
latter is the
especial object
of Bile Beans,
and acting’, as
they do, direct
on the liver,
causing it to
create the na-
tural purga-
tive for the
body, i.e., the
bile, they obtain a beneficial result in the safest,
surest and quickest manner. They enable the
stomach to do its work quickly and thoroughly,
help the liver to help itself, and do away with con-
stipation and indigestion. Rich blood is the re-
sult, and with a stream of red, pure blood flowing
through your veins pimples will be a thing of the
past. Remember, their greatest cures are effected
when all else has failed.
- m
<LrV
XX*
fc) ;
re
e;
4 ik
. 3s?
#?Ti"
' -/J
s> J
* vS- '5
* r
t' *
On Our Selection.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The baby, twelve months old, was to be chris-
tened, and mother decided to give a party. She
had been thinking about the party for some time ;
but decision was contemporaneous with the arrival
of a certain mysterious parcel, and we were pre-
paring for the party.
Dad and Dave were drawing water. Joe was
raking husks and corn-cobs into a heap at the door
and burning them. Little Bill was collecting the
Sumpkins and pie-melons strewn about the yard.
lother and Sal were engaged outside. Mother
stood on a box; Sal spread newspapers on the
table and smeared them over with paste, then
handed them cautiously to mother, who fixed
them on the wall. The baby crawled upon the
floor.
“Not that way,” said mother; “that’s upside-
down ; give them to me straight, ’cause your
father sometimes likes to read them when they’re
up.”
They chatted about the christening.
“Indeed, then, she won’t be asked,” Sal said;
“ not if she goes down on her knees—th’ skinny
little ”
“Min’, min’, mind, girl!” mother screeched;
and Sal dropped the newspaper she was about to
hand up, and jumping a stool caught the baby by
the skirt-tail just as it was about to wobble into
the fire.
“My goodness! you little rat\ n The baby
laughed playfully, and struggled to get out of her
arms. Sal placed it at the opposite side of the
room and the decorating continued.
“ I can remember the time, then,” mother said,
“when they hadn’t so much to be flash about;
when the old woman and that eldest girl, Johanna,
used to go about in their bare feet and with dresses
on—dear me !—that I wouldn’t give a black-gin ! ”
“Not Johanna, mother !”
“Yes, Johanna; you wouldn’t remember it, of
course; Norah was the baby then.”
“ You little wretch ! ” and Sal rushed for the
baby and pulled it from the fire again. She
dumped it down in a different corner, and re-
turned to the paste. The baby made eagerly for
the fire again, but when half-way across the room
it stopped, rested its cheek on the floor and fell
asleep—and it on the verge of being christened
“Bartholomew ! ” —until Dad came in and took it
up.
Mother went into her bed-room and came out
with a flaring red sash flying over her greasy
gown, and asked Dad if he liked it.
Dad looked at the ribbon, then out of the window
and chuckled.
“What d’ y’ think of me ? ”
“ Think of y’ ? ” and Dad grinned.
Mother looked fondly at the ribbon. She was
very satisfied with herself. She was a true
woman. She tripped into the room again and
came out with some yards of print, and asked Dad
what he thought of that. Mother was fond of
dress.
“ Dear me, woman ! ” Dad said, “what’s going
to happen ? ”
“But how do y’ like it?” —letting it hang like
a skirt.
Dad grinned more.
“ Is it a nice pattern ? ”
Dad still grinned.
“ Does it suit me ? ”
Dad looked out the window and saw Joe knock
little Bill down with a pumpkin. He ran out.
“Men haven’t a bit of taste,” mother said to
Sal, folding the print, “except just for what”
(Joe rushed in at the front door and out the back
one) —“’cept for what’s to go in their stomachs.
All they think about’s an old ” —(Dad rushed in
at the front door and out the back one)—“old
horse or something ; and then they think ” —(J oe
rushed in again at the front door, but dived Under
the sofa)—“think every old screw is a race-horse ”
—(Dad rushed in again at the front door and out
at the back one) “my word if he finds you there,
me shaver, y’ll catch it ! ”
Joe breathed hard.
Mother put the print away and mounted the box
again. Then Mrs. Flannigan—a glib-tongued old
gossip, the mother of 16 shy selector children —
dropped in, and they drank tea together and
talked about christening and “matches” and
marriages and babies and bad times and bad hus-
bands until dark —until Mrs. Flannigan thought
her husband would be wanting his supper, and went
home.
* * * * v
Joe talked of the christening at school. Fora
time nobody paid any attention to him; but as
days passed, and one and another went home to
find that mother and father and bigger brothers
and sisters had been “asked,” the interest grew,
and a revulsion of feeling in favor of Joe set in.
First, Nell Anderson suddenly evinced a desire for
his society—hitherto she would weep if made
stand next him in class ; then the Murphys and
the Browns, and young Roberts surrounded him,
and Reuben Burton put his string bridle on him,
and wouldn’t ride any other horse in a race—till
at last Joe became the idol of the institution.
They all fawned on him and followed him about—
all but the two Caseys. They were isolated, and
seemed to feel their position keenly.
Joe was besieged with questions, and he
answered them all with a head-shake and a
snuffling of one nostril. He disclosed all the
arrangements and gave melting descriptions of
the pies and puddings mother was preparing.
How they danced around him and called him
“ Joseph ” ! The two Caseys stood off in silence,
and in fancy saw those pies and puddings. A
pleasant contemplation till Nell Anderson pointed
to them, and asked Joe if they were invited.
“ Nah” —Joe said—“n-n-none of ’em is.”
“ Aint their mother ? ”
“N-nan, we d-don’t want ’em,” and he snuffled
more. The two Caseys then stole away to the
rear of the school, where they sat and nursed their
chagrin in lugubrious silence, and caught flies
mechanically, and looked down at their bare feet
over which the ants crawled, until the teacher
thumped the end of the little building with a huge
paling and school went in.
• • * •
The day came, and we all rose early and got
ready. The parson, who had to ride 25 miles to
be present, arrived near mid-day. His clothes
were dusty and he looked tired. Mother and Sal
wondered if they should offer him something to
eat or let him wait until the guests arrived and all
sat to the big spread. They called Dad and Dave
into the little tumble-down kitchen to discuss the
matter. Dad said lie didn’t care what they did;
but Dave settled it. He said : “ Get th’ chap a
feed.”
J oe sat on the sofa beside the parson’s tall hat
and eyed it in wonder. Joe had never seen so
much respectability before. The parson ate with
his back turned to Joe, while mother and Sal flew
busily about. Joe cautiously put out his hand to
feel the beaver. Mother saw him and frowned.
Joe withdrew his hand and stared at the rafters.
“Delicious tea!” said the parson, and mother
served him with more.
Joe’s hand stole out to the hat again. Dave,
standing outside near the front door, noticed him
and grinned. It emboldened Joe, and he lifted
the hat and placed his head inside it and grinned
out at Dave. Mother frowned more, but Joe
couldn’t see her. She hurried out. Then from
the back of the house Dad’s voice thundered
“ Joe l ” Joe removed the beaver and obeyed the
call. Harsh, angry whispers came from the door,
then sounds of a scuffle, and an empty bucket flew
after Joe as he raced across the yard towards the
haystack.
Soon the guests began to arrive. The Maloneys
and the Todds and the Taits and the Thomsons,
and others, with children and dogs, came in
spring-carts and drays from Back Creek; the
Watsons and the Whites and old Holmes and
Judy Jubb from Prosperity Peak appeared
on horseback. Judy, m the middle of the
yard, stepped out of a torn and tattered old rid-
ing-habit, with traces of the cow-yard about it,
and displayed a pair of big boots and “railway”
stockings, and a nice white muslin dress with
red bows and geraniums and a lot of frills and
things on it. Judy was very genteel. The Syl-
vesters—nice people that came from Brisbane
with new ideas and settled near us ; people who
couldn’t leg-rope a cow ; who were going to make
a big thing out of fowls ; who were for ever asking
Dad if jew-lizards were snakes—came on foot with
their baby in a little painted cart. A large black
dog, well-groomed and in new harness, without
reins, pulled the cart along. We had never seen a
dog pulling a cart before neither had our
dog. He rushed off to meet the Sylvesters, but
stopped half-way and curled his tail over his back
and growled and threw earth about with his legs.
Sylvesters’ dog stood, also, and curled his tail oyer
his back. Mrs. Sylvester patted him and said,
“ Carlo—Carlo l you naughty boy.” Our dog sud-
denly made off. Sylvesters’ dog pursued him.
H<* tore along the fence a,t coursing
speed, making a great noise with the cart
until he turned a corner, where it upset and
left the baby. But he didn’t catch our dog. And
Paddy Maloney and Steve Burton and young
Wilkie galloped up through the paddock shouting
and whipping their horses, and carried away the
clothes-line stretched between two trees at the
back.
The house soon filled —just room for big Mrs.
M'Doolan to squeeze in. She came on foot,
puffing and blowing, and drank the glass of holy
water that stood on the table with bull-frogs
careering round in it. She shook hands with
everybody she knew, and with everybody she
didn’t know, and kissed the baby. There was no
pride about big Mrs. M‘Doolan.
The ceremony was about to commence. Joe
and the young Todds and the young Taits, who,
with the tomahawk and some dogs—about twenty-
six dogs—had been up the paddock hunting
kangaroo-rats, returned with a live jew-lizard.
They squatted round the door guarding the
trophy.
Dad and mother with the baby in a dress of
rebellious hues, stood up and faced the parson.
All became silent and expectant. The parson
whispered something to mother, and she placed
the baby in Dad’s great arms. The band of
hunters at the door giggled, and the jew-lizard
tried to escape. Dad, his hair and beard grown
very long, stared at the parson with a look of wild,
weird reverence about him.
“In the name of the Father,” the parson
drawled, dipping his fingers into the water and
letting it drip on to the baby’s face—“l baptise
thee, Barthol——■”
Interruption.
The jew-lizard escaped, and with open mouth
and head up raced across the floor. Had it been
a boa-constrictor or a bunyip the women couldn’t
have squealed with more enthusiasm. It made
straight for Judy Jubb. But Judy had been
chased by a jew-lizard before. She drew back
her skirts —also her leg—and kicked the vermin
in the chest and lifted it to the rafters. It fell
behind the sofa and settled on Todd’s bull-dog that
was planted there. Bully seized it and shook it
vigorously and threw it against Mrs. McDoolan,
and seized it again and shook it more—shook it
until our dog and a pack of others rushed in.
“T’ th’ devil! ” said Dad, indignantly, aiming
heavy kicks at the brutes. “ The child —gimme
th’ child ! ” Mother shrieked, pulling at Dad.
“ Out w’ y’ ! ” said Anderson, letting fly his foot.
“ Down Bully ! ” shouted Todd, and between them
all they kicked the dogs right through the door,
then heaved the lizard after them.
But the ceremony was soon over, and everybody
was radiant with joy—everybody but Bartholo-
mew. He had been asleep until the parson
dropped the water on his face, when he woke
suddenly. He glared at the strange assemblage a
moment, then whined and cried hard. Mother
“hooshed” him, and danced him up and down
saying, “Did they fri- ten ’im.” Mrs. McDoolan
took him and “hooshed” him and jumped him
about and said : “ There now— there now ! ” But
Bartholomew resented it all, and squealed till it
seemed some part of him must burst. Mrs. Todd
and Mrs. Anderson and Judy Jubb each had a go
at him. “ Must have the wind,” murmured Mrs.
Ryan, feelingly, and Mrs. Johnson agreed with
her by nodding her head. Mother took him again
and showed him the dog, but he didn’t' care for
dogs. Then Sal ran out with him and put him on
the gee-gee —Dad’s old moke that stood buried in
thought at the fence —and he was quiet.
• • • «
A long table erected in the barn was laden with
provisions, and Dad invited the company to “ come
along and make a start.” They crowded in and
Btared about. Green boughs and corn-cobs hung
on the walls; some bags of shelled com stood in
one comer, and from a beam dangled a set of use-
less old cart harness that Dad used to lend to any-
one wanting to borrow. Dad and Paddy Maloney
took up the carving. Dad stood at one end of the
table—Paddy at the other. Both brandished long
knives. Dad proceeded silently—Paddy with
joyous volubility. “ Fowl or pig ?” he shouted to
them, and rattled the knife, and piled the pro-
vender on their plates, and told them to “ back in
their carts” when they wanted more; and he
called the minister “boss.” Paddy was in his
element.
’Twas a magnificent feast, though, and went off
most successfully. It went off until only the
ruins remained. Then the party returned to the
house and danced. Through the afternoon, and far
into the night, the concertina still screeched its
cracked refrain, while the forms of weary females,
with muffled infants in arms, hovered about the
drays in the yard, and dog-tired men, soaked to the
knees with dew-wet grass, bailing and blocking
horses in a paddock corner, took strange, shadowy
shape, until, when all was bright and the sun seemed
near, the last dray rolled heavily away from the
christening of Bartholomew.
STEELE RUDD.


BLIGHT. BLIGHT.
Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment —beyond
doubt the best remedy ; over 50 years’ reputation
and still unrivalled. Sold everywhere, in pots 2s.
each. Never be without it.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Real Gold-Cased JEWELLERY
At Manufacturers’ Prices.
Walking Stick Brooch, Is 6d.
With Paris Diamonds, 2s 6d.
Gold-Cased Bar Brooch (any name),
Is 6d and 2s od.
All the Rage 1
Twin Swallow
Brooch,
with Bell or Stone
Pendant, 2s 6d.
Sterling Silver Watches
(Lady’s or Gent.’s),
18s 6d to £2 10s.
Gold - Cased Watches,
17s 6d.
Rolled Gold Watches,
equal in appearance
to best 18ct. Gold, 10
years’ guarantee,
£2 10s to £3 15s.
Chain Bracelets, 10
years’ guarantee, 15s
to 20s.
Nickel Watch and Chain,
4s 6d to 10s 6d.
Sterling Silver Chains,
4s 6d to 10s 6d.
Rolled Gold Chains, 5 to
10 years’ guarantee,
10s 6d to 20s.
Wishbone Brooch, with Paris
Diamonds, 2s 6d.
df gdfgd
TRUE
LOVER
KNOT
BROOCH.
With Heart and Handsome Stone, 2s 6d.
sedffsedffs
Swallow Brooch,
with
Heart and Ruby
Eye, 2s 6d.
Post free in N.S.W.
Mention Thb Bulletin . . .
Thousands of other Designs. Write To-day.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
J. C. O’BRIEN & CO.
Agents for the Manufacturers,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
TN€R€ IS ONLY ON€
Migrnon Piano.
Nanon Piano.
Roniscli Piano.
THERE IS ONLY ONE
THERE IS ONLY ONE
THERE IS ONLY ONE
Beclisteln Piano
We are the Sole Agents!
Time Payments to Suit Everybody.
Liberal Discount for Cash.
NICHOLSON
SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
s 0 0.,
PERTH.
ZETZ-SPA WATER
For |||ore Than Qne Hundred years
has maintained its supremacy in the face of the whole
world’s competition. Such a record could not be
achieved without cause. Temporary successes are com-
paratively easy, but for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man who has once tried Pears’ Soap in the form of a
Shaving Stick wants no other, he takes it with him on all
his journeys. The woman who travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
“ matchless for the complexion.’"
Em’ly.
A BUSH IDYLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The broad ohipa flew beneath the axe that round
his head went swinging,
And as they fell to left and right I heard the
woodsman singing;
Across the hills the echoes rang—the birds sup-
plied the chorus—
On earth, I’ll swear, no fairer scene than that
which spread before us,
Its dappled shade and dewy lawn with bright
young sunbeams flooded,
Its wealtn of life that woke to live in all that
germed and budded.
But when the edge of sharpened steel had gashed
the trunk asunder,
The crack and roar of riven wood broke through
the hills like thunder ;
High up in air his branches swayed, their leaves
the dew down shaking,
The monarch groaned upon the butt—his giant
heart was breaking !
A hundred years of forest life !—the still bush
paused and shivered,
And saw him fight with Man and Fate, and
watched him as he quivered.
One tremor more, one woeful sigh—which trees,
like men, give dying—
And ’midst the shattered scrub beneath his
mighty corpse was lying.
Then, whilst the sap-like blood dripped out,
upon the trunk together
We sat to yarn that perfect morn in perfect
autumn weather.
“ My friend,” quoth I, “ since last we met, you’ve
done huge work of clearing,
Yon belt of trees along the slope, I note them
disappearing;
A twelvemonth back I crossed this ridge and saw
your camp-fire burning,
But scrub and waste to pasture changed I find on
my returning.
“You’ve built a house of solid slabs —which took,
I’ll bet, some splitting—
With painted doors and window-sills and wide
verandah fitting:
You’ve also built, of posts and rails, a fence that
does you credit—
Your rails are straight and neatly adzed, your
posts are well embedded.
And lo ! a patch before the door worked deep
with fork and spade, sir,
With garden blooms in tasteful beds I mark
already laid, sir !
And you yourself whose rakish ways used oft-
times plague me greatly,
Are changed in dress and looks and speech, and
for the better, lately.
I’ve lain awake to hear you shout with wild
rebellious pity
The deeds of some bushranering thief who ‘ died
dead-game ’ (in ditty);
What time the ’possum sought repose, on Sabbath
morning early,
Your rowdy stockwhip broke my rest —and you
were sober rarely.
But now, i’ faith, you wake with dawn, no piled-
up duty shirking,
And as the crow flies home at dusk ’tis said he
finds you working 1
“The ‘boys’ have gone this very morn across
there kangarooing,
And here alone, by all that’s strange, I find you
out and doing,
While ducks and quail, and pigeons too, are thick
along the river, —
Say, what on earth’s come over you ? It must, it
MUST be liver.”
He filled his pipe once more and drew the sweet
narcotic slowly,
Then so£t his voice, like devotee who speaks of
subjects holy:
“ I’ve taken up this block o’ land, I’ve done that
bit o’ fencing,
I’ve built that house you like so much, and now—
I'm, jest commencing—
“ There’s trees o’ girth—some four foot through—
and knots would rile the Devil,
There’s scrub to clear, and stumps to burn, and
ground to clean and level,
There’s heaps o’ work before me yet, I’ve got to
strive and tussle,
But in my heart I feel I’ve grit, and here you see
the muscle.
“ I’m poor enough and like to be, but by the Lord
above me,
I do not care a fig for that— l’ve got a girl to love
me!
I would not be the richest man that “ spouts ” in
our Assembly,
I would not be the Prince o' Wales, and lose my
little Em’ly.
“My folks they lived down Clarence way —oh,
that’s the land for growing
The maize that comes from river silt. By gosh !
beyond all showing !
And pumpkins, boss ! I’ve seen ’em swell clean
out o’ rhyme and reason,
When we have had a flood or two and then a pro-
per season.
“My dad he drank our farm away and died, and
left me fight it,
(Poor Mam, she went long time before, one year
the wheat was blighted),
I’d got no kin, and friends I found are always out
of cooey.
They sold it up ; I said * Good-bye,’ and started
‘ humping bluey.’
“ I’ve tramped the Lachlan up and down, and
crossed the same ‘ a banker ’;
I’ve worked a wool-boat Darling side, from Bourke
to ‘ safe at anchor ’ ;
I’ve shore for stations West and South, and drove,
and ‘overlanded’;
I've yarded brumbies, you can bet, and tallied
sheep and branded.
I’ve knocked about the mining towns ; my house
has been a tent, mate ;
I’ve boozed in nearly every pub. across the conti-
nent, mate.
But now I guess I’ll settle down and get a home
about me,
I’m good enough for honest graft—with her —you
needn’t doubt me.
“ 01), you should see my little Em ” —she’s
seventeen next Friday—
In her print frock and pretty shoes an’ apron
white an’ tidy
Oh, you should see the girl I love when Friday
night she dresses,
And puts a ribbon round her neck an’ one among
her tresses!
But when I ride across the creek to give her
birthday greeting,
Her lips will part like two rose leaves and smile a
welcome meeting.
Her eyes will shine like two bright stars in
Heaven’s blue above nie,
An’, boss, I feel a better man—l’ve got a girl to
love me.
“So that's the reason you to-day have found me
down here slogging,
And as I’ve smoked and had my say, ’tis time
that I was jogging ;
There’s lots o’ graft ahead for me ; but, oh, I’m
light and limber,
To get dear Em I’d cut my way through solid
miles o’ timber.
“ I wasn’t worth a tinker’s curse before I met my
beauty ;
I’ve turned a cleaner leaf since then inside the
book o’ duty.
I’m building up a home for her, here’s one more
blow toward’ it;
Let misers count their stacks o’ gold, I’ve got her
love—l’ll hoard it.
“ When I oan get this ground in trim an’ fifty
pounds together,
We’ll go to church some sunny day in happy
April weather;
If I can get this ground in trim an’ marry little
Em’ly,
I would not be the wisest man that ‘ spouts ’ in
our Assem’ly. v
“So that’s the reason, boss, to-day, you find me
up an’ doing
When all the ‘ boys ’ about the place have gone
out ‘ kangarooing,’
When ducks and quails and pigeons, too, are thick
along the river,
But my disease, that’s plain to you, is heart —it
isn’t * liver! ”
Moral.
Ho, gentlemen, of oynic mould, and ladies, proud,
disdainful,
If to your “ high aesthetic sense ” my vulgar verse
is painful,
Pass on your ways, to rout and ball and feast and
gay assembly,
And let my brave bush hero go to wed his pretty
Em’ly.
1895.
E. J. BRADY.
A recent fat black heading in Hobart
Mercury that looked like a row of small niggers
on a fence:
BRUTAL BOERS’ IDEA OP A SOLDIER’S BURIAL.
DISPOSAL OP THE DEAD LIKE DOGS.
A large number of dead Boers have been discovered
drowned in the Modder River with stones tied about their
necks. They were thus buried by their comrades after
the battle.
Passing over the alleged drowning of the already
dead as merely a Tasmanian way of putting
things, we next came to this extract from a con-
tingenter, also published in a Hobart paper:
They are shooting and burying Boers here wholesale.
One trench contained about 200 ; the British put them in
with their feet up, and some of their toes are beginning
to stick out.
There isn’t much time for the pomp and hearse of
glorious burial in war-time—but in the bright
lexicon of the daily groveller, it is only the Boer
who is a brute when the funeral has to be hurried
up a little.
Jones on Mind Presence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jones was in one of his talky moods. 1 listened
a while, half-dozed, and woke to the fact that he
was telling a yarn.
“ . . . presence of mind, I know a fellow —
lives in this city—who’s got a big allowance of it.
It came out strong recently. Fell in love with a
little girly-woman who gave him what she had of
a heart and then —same old thing—married the
fellow with the money. Bartlett cursed his luck,
went in for hard graft and tried to forget her.
“The year afterwards they met in Melbourne,
and Bartlett found he hadn’t forgotten at all.
She had got used to the money by this, and had
begun to miss his kisses—she was one of your little
flower women who live for the pretty things of life
and the admiration of men. She got this last, but
prized it from no one so much as from the woman-
worshipped Bartlett, and while he swore louder
than ever at his fate, she began to wait and hope
for an opportunity. So did Bartlett by-and-bye.
And at last it came.
“ The old man went away for three weeks—and
came back on the eighth night.
“Bartlett and the woman had‘bought over the
servants of course, and they were warned— only
just in time.
“ Bartlett kissed her—she was shaking with
terror and whiter than the sheets—and told her
whatever happened to tell the same lies as he, and
not to be the least afraid. Then he found her
jewel case, snatched some rings from the table—
she had some magnificent things—and crept out
of the room. He met the husband in the passage,
swore with surprise, and then dashed past him
and the servant, out of the house and into the
street. The rest; was easy. He had merely to
find a constable and run into his arms.
“He lied well, did Bartlett, and the woman
with the flower face helped him to get his two
years—that was the law—without the quiver of a
muscle.
“Afterwards, when he came out, they decided
that they had taken altogether too much trouble
to save her reputation, so they ran off to-
gether, and poor old hubby, having divorced
her, married another woman five times worse than
the first. As for Bartlett and his beloved, they
went to a registrar a year or so after ; and all’s
well that ends well. Pass the whisky. ”
GASLIGHT.


It Keeps the Blood Pure
Gives Nerve-power, Prevents Nervous Bxhaustion,
Keeps up the Physical Strength.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
-
IV
L
v
1
&
, “l am a Professional Cyclist.”
u I am anxious to obtain all the prizes and honors possible. To do this I
know I must keep m.y blood and system in good order. For this purpose I
tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and the results have always been satisfactory.
“ Training and racing make an excessive nervous strain and loss of nerve
force and physical strength. To quickly restore this loss of nerve energy and
power I have never found anything equal to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. The Sarsa-
parilla keeps my blood pure and this tones up and strengthens my whole body.
“ Today I have the honor to be the champion cyclist of Forbes, thanks to
your wonderful medicine. I send you my portrait on my good steed that has
carried me with waving colors over the track.”
This is the testimony and portrait of the well-known cyclist, H. H. John-
son, of South Forbes, New South Wales.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla takes out all impurities from the blood. It changes
thin blood into rich, red blood, such blood as healthy nerves and muscles must
have. "Ayer’s ” and only Ayer’s is called
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
All who are thin and pale need it. All who are weak and easily tired need
it. All who are nervously depressed from a warm climate need it.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
It Invigorates the Whole System.
Ayer’s Pills Cure Biliousness and Sick Headache.
fg gdf
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK
posted for only 7s. 6(1
Speeches and Toasts ready-made tor all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking- made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love,Dress,etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted!
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Wiuter, Is 6d.
Iro.n Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history!
Is 6d posted. r
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post
Up-to-date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ohevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest son«-s
Is 3d post free. °
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.-SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons fold and new! thnt
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE hfferto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
e 11 anywhere?
SIR ROBERT 3 EUR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY CPQMEETITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
P&I9.WS
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
(Tinmrmss H lllnoco ft ixrnl Hn (V oft TV/T rtnln 1t! „ J T'V .. , J Pi ~l J Pit, Til i
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling- Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
G- UIMI‘A A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly lemove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the lorg-iost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud oir Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are facts ’ admitt ed by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
JN ervous and Debilitated is that Beecharn’s Bills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9|d, Is and 2s 9d each.
-SEH
immEm
C<s*-
Prjrruv?
B-Sen&l
iPOH AVENUE!
NEON. :
INVALUABLE TO
SItfGEBS & SPEAKERS
tiflgJC
w
LEA AND PERRINS’
OBSERVE THAT THE
SIGNATURE
śd gd gd
IS NOW
PRINTED
IN BLUE INK
DIAGONALLY ACROSS THE
of every Bottle of the
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE
Sold Wholesale by the Proprietors,
Worcester;
Crosse & Blackwell, Ltd., London;
and Export Oilmen generally.
RETAIL EVERYWHERE.
I
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON, & CHAPMAN: and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O. lEIIjIDIRIXXGKE] & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 A OlUv STJftJbJWT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ISr- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
|| OL LOW AY’S RILLS AND OINTMENT.
S a There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing viriuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. £;«?•' p ur .
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
REMEMBER
THE WONDERFUL
CURATIVE PROPERTIES OF
BONNINGTON’S
MOSS
FOR
Coughs and all Lung Complaints.
Mr. J. G. BEATTIE, Hillgrove, writes: “ Dear Sirs.—l experienced immediate relief
when suffering from a severe cold in the head and throat upon taking a few doses of vour
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.” J
Bonnsngton’s Pills.
Great Cure for Bile, Indigestion,
and all Liver Disorders.


STTBNBir
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
Gas Tubing, &c.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office :
PERDEIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-,ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST- SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option. ■
nflammatt’s
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<s>he Abbot
lIUMIK
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PI.ATE and
CUTI>EBiT,
marK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ TUB BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
The Post Poserfel Driving Belt in the (Jjorld.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India ,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working-
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works ,
GLASGOW:
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
fgd df fgdf
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
MO POTENT BEETS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents:
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide ;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. LTD.
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butteris made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There rnafeww!™
i , , pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the orocess •W ft t
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully' flavored butter and Z
ordinary make is only Id. per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Headf of households should insist
aat themgrocersnpphes Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your orders to US, and we will deliver it at vour doora
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use J
Bit; any pPICG* The famous “ Berry brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • • •
butter is dear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
Parke & Lacy (Jo. ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & GENERAL MACHINERY. ENGINES & ROILERS.
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockbreakers
Gates Rockbreakers
Roger Roils
Sample Grinders
Ingersoll Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
fdfg gd
Knowles Steam Pumps
_ . . . Bullock Diamond Drills
Columbia Boilers
u .. „ _ Buffalo Blowers
Huyett & Smith’s Fans
D .. ~ _ Nagle Engines
Bartlett Concentrators
... _ ___ . Pulsometers
Wood-Working: Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
fg
BARNES’
Foot and Steam Power
Machine Tools
of Every Description.
Drilling Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
and.
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
SIMPSOKT BROTHERS,
Solo Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TRADE
Worthington Pumps
BOILER PEED PUMP.
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
• . Send for Catalogues . .
