

McEWAR’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid's London Draught Stout
S MALTED COCOA
<3?XT AHAKTTEEP pure cocoa
AND EXTRACT OF 2VX,A.X**X“.
107 Kent Street, Sydney, *
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery Minin*
270
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
m
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST WiNE
AUSTRALIA.
83T Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
2G3 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.
m - _______ __ "■ajii.',, ; i =g
GIBSON, BATTLE & Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Huston,
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Proctor & Oo
T.<*
U»TJ I LEL STOCK ANn TO aruive-portart.r,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES
eoobtxtxjeiic thrashcikto
and BOILERS AND PUMPS.
macbcuxtes, saw loiEsaxroiEariEss,
WScO.,
&c
Established 1831.
That’s AU!
EWAN'S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
on TAIKAH I, I? A T ALL HOTK I, S A Nl> LICENSED OROC E R P
À
Á
1
a
Â
HOBART.
• ffleX ""
Hadley’s Orient (jotel.
sr''i
M»*V,
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS,
Kiwi'n ,> -? r ' ,i '*oi GEORGE HOTEL. opposlteSb
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TAKIKt’ tor
Hoarders, Us. per Hay, or 2 Guineas per Week.
oo
f
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month-THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The jjeauiiig jae.iL ox -aLUotialia.
Unsurpassed for Eturabilitv and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Pi ices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUD0WICF& SON, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SiYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbanijs, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S, Australia
“ Tales of j the System/’
2RICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S
ANG BRANDY,
THE LATEST TESTIMONY OF APPRECIATION.
AGAIN TO THE FRONT!
By mail from London Messrs. JOSHUA BROS, have been informed that
the Army Contracts’ Director has taken a supply of their Brandy
Fortbe Us? of tbe I imperial Troops ii) S. Africa.
in Flasks, Half-Flasks and Bottles.
THE WOnUMtENOWNED
Sdiswaii - Lamp.
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDM S SWAN
United Electric Light
1
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY
Qnsland Depot—Central Bulletin s, Edvvard-st., Brisbane,
The Bulletin
Vol 22.—N0. 1058.)
[Saturday, May 26, IUOO.
Ee? stfrecl at the Genera! Past Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post- as a TJewsoaoor.


For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THK . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Lartsi, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachia or windpipa.
C. The Bronchial Tube* of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lange.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable fc>
SI NGE B S
and '
PUBLIC
speakers.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain HO cocaine or other poisonous drug . . .
SOLD BY ALL QHEMISTB, In Tins, Is 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Cbsmist, Ijxnrigh, Queensland—
free on receipt of stamp*. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLAGE. 1
THE RED PAGE.
[lt would be possible to collect, from newspaper flies
and MSS. in the hands of Kendall’s relatives and friends,
a, body of poetic work probably as large as that included
in the current edition of his poems—less valuable than
that we have, but much of it hardly less interesting.
This characteristic piece was contributed to The Empire .]
TO-
Ah, often do I wait and watch,
And look up, straining through the Real
With longing eyes, my friend, to catch
Faint glimpses of your white Ideal.
I know she loves to rest her feet t
By slumbrous seas, and hidden strand;
But mostly hints o! her I meet .
On moony spots of mountain land.
I've never reached her shining place,
And only cross at times a gleam ;
As one might pass a fleeting face
Just on the outside of a Dream.
But you may climb, her happy Choice !
She knows your step, the maiden true !
And ever when she hears your voice,
She turns, and sits, and waits for you.
How sweet to rest on breezy crest,
With such a Love, what time the Morn
Looks from his halls of rosy rest,
Across green miles of gleaming corn !
How sweet to find a leafy nook,
When bees are out, and Day burns mute,
Where you may hear a passion’d brook
Play past you, like a mellow flute !
Or, turning from the sunken sun,
On fields of dim delight to lie—
To close your eyes, and muse upon
The twilight’s strange divinity !
Or through the Night’s mysteri ms noon,
While Sound lies hushed am > lg the trees,
To sit and watch a mirror’d moon
Float over silver-sleeping seas !
Oh, vain regret! why should I stay
To think and dream of joys unknown ?
You walk with her from day to day,
I faint afar off—and alone.
HENRY KENDALL.
The Northern Traveller.
p r afternoon was dressed in sunshine, and
I from a corner in a balcony I could see the
JL Harbour winking in the distance. The
pure air, the golden light, and the blue
waters were as a demand, and there was a secret
desire towards concession within me. But, on the
other hand, a story moved within me for expres-
sion, and having denied it many times, I could do
so no more with any shred of decency. Setting
my pen to paper I began to write in this wise :
Austin wrote to certain of his Sydney
friends —“Do you rememberour last meeting
when webade farewell to So-and-So ? Well, on
that occasion, the wine of good-fellowship so
> genialised me that I long for another goblet.
A distinguished Northern traveller, an
Asiatic by birth, who for the present must
remain nameless, and to whom I have
spoken of you all, wishes to meet you. Like
the ideal manager that I am, I have
arranged a dinner where good wine may
redden what might only be an acquaintance
into something more deep and lasting.”
“So far, so good,” I said, and lit my pipe. It is a
pleasant thing to watch the play of puffed smoke;
now it whirls like the convolution of a sea-shell,
coming back, at times, to one’s nostrils like a beiii-
son, and at times marbling a fathom of sunshine.
But idle observation belongs to the leisured, and I
had work to do.
Having made Austin write that letter, what
came next ? Ah, yes ! they must all meet toge-
gether—artists and poets and actors. Each being
a Bohemian, good talk will fall from his lips
effortless, like ripe fruit from a tree. But stay, I
said; I set myself a mighty task. How, for
instance, am I going to make that poet—the poet
I have in my mind —speak as he is wont to do?
And that artist with the grip in his eyes—the eyes
that shed an ancient light—how am I going to
paint him ? And the man with ceaseless merri-
ment bubbling on his lips, where am I to get the
humour to make him-make the world laugh ?
In sheer despair I put a pause to these mental
queries.
A policeman has come to a halt a few doors up
the street. He is evidently off duty, because he
wears a pipe and is without gloves. He glances up
at a House to his right and then looks towards me.
I turn from him. I edwdys think that the mind
searching for a thought or word gives an inane
expression to the face, and while I write I do not
like to be studied. Presently the policeman moves
on and passes from my range of vision.
To. the gathering of Austin’s, I said, shall I
bring any editors ? If I do, I must make Such-and
Such a butt, or So-and-So, the Bohemian, will be
displeased. “It is not the things we accept, but
the things we reject, that cut deepest into our
time, ” said an editor ; and last week it fell to the
lot of So-and-So to have a sketch rejected. Since
then So-and-So, daggered and dominoed like a
bravo of old Italy, waits his chance to assassinate
a reputation. Still, having had no quarrel with
editors, I do not see why I should seek one to
gratify another’s spleen. For the most part, they
have reviewed my books in pretty terms and
sweetened with gratitude. I omit them from
Austin’s group.
Now, as to the politicians—what of them ? They
know little of Art and. Literature, and care less.
In the appreciation of most of them a prize pump-
kin outvalues a prize poem ; and so the brilliant
trifles of a Bohemian gathering would be hardly
likely to appetise them. Still, there are two or
three who might be capable of being educated into
an appreciation of ideals as far above those of
politics as a cross-topped steeple is above the
buried foundation. The young fellow with the
head that might have been dug up out of Roman
ruins is one of them. Let him stand among the
lightnings. '
The policeman has come back. His pipe is out.
Over his shoulder he casts a glance at the House
he scanned before. Is it a thief, or is it Mary
Jane ? Perhaps the people of the house have gone
out, leaving Mary Jane in charge. Presently she
may open the door and signal to her cavalier in
blue. I must not seem to be a spectator, or it may
spoil all. But no lit is not going to be a romance.
The policeman leaves the House and paces on his
way, and the asphalt pavement rings to his tread.
Austin and the Bohemians are gathered
in the banquet - room. The tables are
brilliant with silver and roses. Austin takes
the chairman’s place, and each one seats him-
self. The guest’s chair beside that of Austin
is vacant. Where is the guest ? Prom one
to another goes the question till it reaches
the chairman. The chairman is pouring wine
into a glass.
“ Claret gives a tooth to the palate,” he
says,
“But where is our guest?” enquires a
friend.
“ In time—in good time I shall tell you,”
he returns.
Someone says that Austin is a confirmed
trickster, that the Northern traveller is a
fiction—a social loadstone invented for the
centralisation of bright particles, but Austin
does not seem to hear.
The feast goes on. There are some who
have saved their appetites through two meals,
and these are, repaid of tlmir forethought-.
In due time the wine begins to flow and
cigars are tipped with red. An artist is
smelling a rose.
“ Have you a sense of perfume left ? ” asks
a friend. “As for me, the air is drenched
with the smell of chloride of lime.”
At the other end of the table a twin dis-
cussion is going on, and someone calls out,
“ I shall never be friends with red wine
again.”
“ And why, my dainty epicure ? ”
“ Because permanganate of potash is a
persistent vision, and the taste of it a weari-
ness on my palate.”
“That is true,” joins in another ; “the
whole city smells like a hospital.”
There is a thud of fists on the table and
a beating of boots on the floor. It is a signal
that the chairman is on his feet. The noise
dies, and the party wait in silence for his
speech.
“ Gentlemen,” he says, swinging a rose by
its stem, “ it is a trick I have played upon
you, but the pleasantest consequences walk
in its train. The Northern traveller of
Asiatic origin does not exist to the bodily
eye. But then, after all, why should flesh
and blood and bone be everything to us ?
We have imagination ! let him be a creature
of it ! See—he sits here in the chair—
Behold him ! ”
Then Austin goes on to show what an
ideal guest is he whom they have met to
honour, since he can offend no man and no
man offend him. “He is the pet and peer-
less child of each imagination,” says Austin.
A poet rises to propose the guest’s health.
He talks of the Northern traveller’s white
beard and aged eyes. He says that no
doubt in his youth their guest, lying under
Persian roses, drank wine with Omar
Khayyam.
An artist supports the toast. He hopes
that the guest of the evening, gazing through
glory-glutted eyes, will look leniently on
such small beginnings of Art as Australia
has to offer. He . . . but here the artist
begins to'cough. “ Open that window ! they
are burning that confounded sulphur again ! ”
he cries.
The policeman is again on his way up the
street . As he nears the House its door
opens. He quickens his pace —“ Ah, now for
Venus/” I exclaim. A very ladylike young person
comes out the door and lifts ' the latch of the gate.
She has a parcel in her hand and is evidently going
out. The policeman puts forth an arm and stays her.
She says something to him. His head shakes a
negative. She pleads with him. He is obdurate.
She offers him something —is it money? He
turns his head dWay with something of pride and
anger in the toss of it. The young lady lowers
her face , and with a handkerchief to 'her eyes
slowly turns, re-ascends the steps, and entering the
House closes the door behind her. The policeman
gives a hasty look around, and then goes quietly
away. What does it all mean? Is it a romance,
or . . .
Bohemia again—
No other has a mind to speak, so they
all rise and drink the toast. “And now,”
says Austin, with the gravest of faces, “I
must request your complete silence for five
minutes while the guest of the evening
replies.”
One and all fall easily into the moment's
mood. With most of them to be common-
place would be more difficult than to be
eccentric. They had scarcely one among
them of whom it could be predicted that he
would follow a given line of human action.
The trickery in hand suits their tastes, and
they lie back in their chairs and smoke and
are happy because they are unusual.
The policeman has come back again, and takes up
his station outside the House. Two young ladies,
trimly dressed, standing, on the near pavement, are
talking together. They look towards the policeman.
Is it of him they are talking ?
The Bohemians preserve a respectful
silence. The streets are nigh deserted, the
lamps burning whitely in the dry, wind-
swept spaces. The Northern traveller is
supposed to be talking, though no word
reaches the ear of anyone. The poet is
thinking of a poem that he will write on the
morrow, and suddenly a line flashes in on
him—
In Babylon I walked before Belshazzar saw the
writing!
“Yes, yes,” he says to himself, “ hat
will do very well.”
And again :
I slept with the Pharaohs !
“ A perspective opens up to me,” thinks
the poet. “ But who is this that walked
through Babylon and slept in the Pyramids ?
Let me see—let me see ..."
The silence seems pregnant with sugges-
tion, and a picture rises in the artist’s mind.
How restless the street below has grown! There
are groups of girls and men, here and there, in
different places, and they are talking together (how
pale they all are!), and looking towards the House,
in front of which the policeman stands. There is a
drawing of blinds and an opening of doors and a
coming in and a going out in the houses round about
that sends my wits astray and robs me of steady
thought.
The picture that the artist sees is that of
a girl in silk—pink silk—lying dead on the
marble floor of a palace balcony, while far
below, with no smoke rising from it, stands
a deserted city.
“Yes, that is part of an idea," says the
artist; “I may be able to make a picture
when I get the whole."
A man in a corner begins to shiver, and
he rises and shuts a window. The five-
minutes is nearly up, and an actor signals to
a brother actor to pass the'wine. The actor
does not heed him. He is thinking of an
old stage-triumph the night long ago that he
excelled himself in Mercutio. How well he
died then ! lying on his back and railing :
Zounds ! a dog—a rat .. .
A plague o’ both your houses ! . . . and . . .
There is a noise of feet descending the
stairs. Someone groans at every step. The
noise ceases at the landing, and a Bohemian
goes forward and opens the door. He says
something in a loud voice, and is answered
in whispers. A smell of disinfectants floods
the room.
Presently he comes back. He is pale,
and—
There comes a rattle of wheels up the street. Two
vehicles halt in front of the House. Men in blue
leap from the vehicles and run into the House.
The people—all of them white-faced now—draw
away to a distance. A woman answers a passer-by :
“The Plague is in the House !” she says.
“ My God ! ” cries the other.
The words, “ The Plague is in the House ! ”
stumble from the Bohemian’s lips as he
turns and eyes Austin.
“ Not that ! ” cries Austin—“ My God ! I
did not mean that as the Northern traveller,
and yet ”
“ It looks like a grim joke,” finishes some-
one.
My pen was trembling. 1 threw it down.
Sydney, 1900.
RODERIC QUINN.
"International Calamity.”
“DEATH OF THE SACRED IBIS.”
[W. O. Hodgkinson—a man known all over Australia—
who in his (52nd year, after many elbowings with good
and evil fortune, has just found a haven as editor of the
new Q. mining journal under Govt., was in his heyday a
writer with a lovely gift of satire. The follow-
ing specimen of his talent is drawn from the forgotten
flies of a Brisbane newspaper. It refers to the rhetorical
and exploring feats of Archibald Meston, a well-known
Queenslander now doing excellent service as Protector of
Q. Aborigines.]
What may be termed the gestative faculty of
birds is irregular, if not eccentric. Some breed
at one season, some at another, some in dry
weather, others in heavy wet. The Southern
Drake goes North in search of a nest, as his
native haunt is getting too hot to hold him. The
quack, however, is not esteemed in that quarter.
The Phoenix cannot be said to breed at all, but
when its fixed measure of life has expired, one
hundred years, it places a lighted match at the
foot of a hollow tree, creeps into the hole, and
evolves a successor out of its own ashes.
The reproduction of the Sacred Ibis hitherto
has been a sealed mystery. But one has existed,
and his birth is, like that of all celebrities, shrouded
in doubt. Circumstances have attached unusual
weight to the recent movements of this revered
bird. Ornithologists have been long puzzled to
know how long-legged birds incubate, and it is one
of the triumphs of modern science to have ascer-
tained that the gorgeous scarlet Flamingo makes
a hole in the top of an ant-hill and sits straddle-
legs thereon till its young appear. When,
therefore, the Sacred Ibis, whose importance could
not be satisfied with less than a mountain, though
a young Ibis is probably not larger than
a mouse, was noticed roving towards the summit
of Bellenden-Ker, it was surmised that he in-
tended to fulfil an ornithological function by
building a nest and laying an egg. We have it
on his own courteous admission that he succeeded
in getting material from the disused and aban-
doned covert of a nobler bird. There is, in fact, a
certain resemblance between the Sacred Ibis and
the cuckoo, the former having a constitutional
apathy to gather his own sticks. For some time
the Sacred Ibis was invisible, but on the 30th
ultimo he appeared jauntily perched on an abori-
final weapon and announced that he had dropped
is maiden egg in a crooked lane in the vicinity.
Little notice was taken of the fact, but exactly
seven days after, the Sacred Ibis dropped a second
egg, ran cackling about the cold wet streets, and
imprudently died. The eggs have been blown.
They contained no principle of life. .The eggs are
of a watery blue, strangely deficient in lime.
An autopsy shows the exact cause of death to
be verbal prolepsis. '
Yes ! the Sacred Ibis is dead. One falters as
one pens the words. Following so close after the
decease of the great tribune, this second loss is a
staggerer. The Sacred Ibis, to use a sporting
metaphor, is like a cronk pedestrian—a dead
bird. His plumage will never more be ruffled
by the dews of criticism. I write this obitu-
ary with a feather plucked from his vener-
ated wing. No ordinary goose-quill would
serve. I speak under correction, the parish
registers having long since been eaten by that fero-
cious moth, the “ Attacus Hercules, but I believe
the deceased bird was hatched on the Nile, in a
swamp formed by a disused brickyard where
Moses worked before he went to the bar. -tbs, the
Sacred Ibis’, education was accomplished at the
Sesostrian Grammar School, where he carried off
several prizes for tautology, though somewhat of a
flighty temperament. From Egypt he migrated
to Tyre and Sidon, watched the decay of the shep-
herd kings, and supplied Gibbon with personal
recollections of the “Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire.” Like most aquatic birds, he
was omnivorous. It is due to him that “ Lem-
priere ” has been preserved in its integrity. When
the unspeakable progenitor of the lurk burnt
Alexandria, and the darkness of the Middle Ages
covered Europe, the Sacred Ibis swallowed the
only copy of the work, throwing up the indi-
gestible fragments as demanded by schoolastic
idiots.
The Sacred Ibis was a proficient in athle-
tics. In the modern resuscitation of archery
he was simply inimitable. He drew the bow
with harrowing force —nay, sometimes he over-
shot the mark. He could throw a hatchet with
accuracy to an incredible distance. As a scien-
tific naturalist, he possessed the nerve of Audu-
bon and Waterton combined. He was a skilled
whip, and drove alligators in double harness through
the columns of the press. But it was in descrip-
tive redundancy he shone. No matter how large
the subject he could find a colossal word to over-
shadow it. His coolness was only equalled by his
courage. On one occasion, when it was necessary
to enable the railway surveyors to take the level
of the bed of the Barron Falls, he damped the
roaring torrent with an ejaculation. He slew a
python, twenty-one feet long, with a supple
Greek root of three fathoms. 11 is loss cannot be
replaced. The jaw-bones of the rising generation
will lack due development. He was in his usual
state of health on the morning of the 30th ult.
He was, in fact, interchanging jests with the
Traffic Inspector, who playfully objected to his
blocking the footpath with derivatives. This first
attack passed almost without comment, but a
second issue determined to a bead, which was
weak, though full of pretty conceits.
The form of disease —verbal prolepsis—was, in
his case, chronic, lie suffered from it before he
assumed pen-feathers. The last song of a dying
Ibis is as sacred as the final whistle of a swan.
Grasping the hand of his amanuensih, for with all
his Ornithological ability he never mastered the
mechanical art of writing, he muttered, “It’sa
long lane that has no turning, and a crooked one
at that.” Then he died, and is now cateliing frogs
on the banks of the Styx.
Buskin inherited £200,000; bequeathed £lO,OOO
—liberal in everything but his theory of Art.
Q. People’s Newspaper prints a story of Sandy
Russell—greatest of Scots editors. He rallied a
friend on his grey head—the friend retorted on
Russell’s bald head. “Ah,” said Russell, “my
hair preferred death to dishonour.” But these
are not so well-known : A Free Kirk meenister
caught Russell trout-fishing on the Saw-
bath, and “ improved the occasion.” As a
preliminary to a homily on Sawbath-break-
ing—“ Ah pairceive, Mr. Russell, that ye
are feeshin’ ! Noo——” “ I’ve seen ye fishing
yersel’,” said Russell. “But I, Mr. Russell” —
with dignity—“am a Fisher of Men.” “Ay; I
saw ye at it this morning—and—there werena’ ower
mony fish in your creel?” Another: “Lord
presairve us ! Mr. Russell ”—cried a man rushing
into the sanctum one day—“what do ye think !
what do ye think ! The maist astonishing thing !
Ah was walking in the High-street, and a mon
cam’ up to me, and took off his hat, and ca’d me
‘ Your Grace ’! What do ye think ? He
—took me for the—Duke—of—Buceleuch !
The Duke of ■ Buceleuch /” “Pooh, mon!’ said
Russell, “what’s yon? I was sitting in this
chair—juist where ye see me—not five minutes
syne: and a mon cam’ in—juist as you micht come
in—and what do ye think he said ? What do ye
think ! He said, ‘ Lord Almighty !is that
you ? ’
Other “Australia” sonnets received from
G.W. —
Australia, wild and young, thou Bride of Fire 1
Queen Victoria sent her soldiers chocolate.
Why ? Because she read in Bernard Shaw’s play,
“ Arms and the Man,” Bluntschli’s utterance —
“I’ve mo ammunition. What use are cartridges in
battle? I always carry chocolate instead. You can
always tell an old soldier by the inside of his holsters and
cartridge-boxes. The young ones carry pistols and car-
tridges ; the old ones grub,”
Kipling has a Kaiser on a wire; Shaw has a
Queen on a string—-but Beauty draws A. Pope
with a single hair, as previously.
“Plymouth Sound;” Barbara Grey—
What is the Austral land ? It is a strain
Of mystic music ; life and death are there ;
’Tis bright with hope, ’tis sad with all despair ;
The conquering dominant notes rise high, and fain
Strange haunting wild-birds’ notes join in the air,
And winds and waters the same theme declare—
One race is doomed, and one has come to reign.
What is the Austral land ? It is a page
With but a line or two already writ ;
A canvas bare that waits the Master Hand ;
’Tis for the weary North the heritage
The Sunrise to'the South wind did commit ;
The dream of golden dawn ; the Morning-Land!


DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLOROPyNE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARBHCEA, & c -> bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNS.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
REITS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleatrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electrio Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we. will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,‘wo prefer that yon send
for our Electric Era and l’rice List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
4:
w
c,
*
■
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
03 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
0°
T Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor .'—STEPHEN BREEN,
Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
Those sufl'ering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
lor my invaluable little pamphlet.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be Riven secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Malinsr Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
“LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LICMOLLIENE never fails to CURE ECZEMA (“ Psoriasis
Acne”). BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H,
M A LYON, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT, VIC.
HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL . .
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS of ENERGY,
etc. Has CURED Thousands for the BLOOD,
SKIN, NERVES, RHEUMATISM, etc.
“WORDS OF WISDOM.
This Free Book about
the Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40
pages of useful information, and will be posted m
plain cover absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address:
The Irving Homoeopathic Co.,
Comer Hunter and Bligh Streets,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
<£>
r
RMS
OLD
SUNBU
FING
«/?
CH
&.C
O'
y
s
Y
IRUNKENNESS
" „ T TATTATI TJT A DTT rvnaifivplv CURED
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering gyCRASY.
?ails WiU pShlet 1 S"n?ng“h«ll particulars and
tfmonials sent skied free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge)
for Selling Wool J
21 per cent.
Includes all Charges excepting
cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
_ Circular Quay, Sydney.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
Offices:
LIMITED.
12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Storks Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. . Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Rank.
Kangaroo, Wallaby, -
Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
S Y ID KT B Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
" New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will bo our Charges to the Grower
COMMISSION
2 per Cent.
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing,’ Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over Cd. per lb.,
the cnarge will be ... ... ... ... ... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. Gd. per Bale.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of Nlarsupial Shins held Weekly.
LAWRENCE S PATENT TOBACCO CUTTER.
Price £6.
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
■vr OTli , These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended totobacconists
enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Cut and Moist I
in the country, so as to <
)supply
MICK SIMMONS,
Havmarket.
; Tobacco.
Svdnev.
ftSfo FOR
4t«t “if
COMBINES WHISKY
PERFECTION OF QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY
3
i'N
CHEAP AND FASHIONABLE TAILORING.
CG. HATTE, of King-street, Newtown (near Sydney,
• N.S.W.), has recently made great additions and im-
provements to his Tailoring Department, which is now one
of the features of his extensive business. He receives regu-
lar shipments, from his Home buyers, of all the newest and
most fashionable goods, and has one of the smartest cutters
in the colony Everything is made to measure on the pre-
mises; a perfect fit is guaranteed, and patrons may rely on
every satisfaction being given. Self-measurement forms
and patterns sent free bypost. Hatte’s suits of Indigoserge,
all-wool tweeds, and sergerettes ("with extra pair of trousers
given in) for 42/- are the marvel of tailoring and the talk of
Australasia. For 50/- Hatte makes a suit of tweed or serge
fit for a prince. Inspect or send for patterns of his new
woollens, comprising vicunas. West of England, Scotch and
Blarney tweeds, at 67/6. and 65.'- ; the great value offered.
Hatte makes a smart Chesterfield overcoat from meltons,
vicunas, and Venetians from 45/-, and the new paddock
coat, with full back, side vents, crescent pockets, silk-faced
and velvet collar for 55/-. Hatte’s speciality is in dress-
suits, starting at £3 3s, made of purple dye elastic coating
with silk-facing. For excellence of material, perfect fit,
latest fashion, and superior workmanship, Hatte is un-
equalled, whilst his charges are at least 30 per cent, under
those of ordinary city tailors.
I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarlne I
Posted (undercover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, I Os. (id.
Sole Agents :
\
The Result.
Craig & Aitken. 680-632 George-st,. Sydney
A .11 I SKMISyT for OLD and ItOUNQ.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondike Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (oan be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Pish (gives the definition of .vour character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed). ~ . ,
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. Gd.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716)4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
11. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Medical.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
f'fATARBH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from tha
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
ami smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tilages, and rots away the small
frontal hones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomaqh causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Head ache, Ne u ral gia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
I
MEDICATOR
Price Complete with Four Months’treatment by ,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non>c Catarrb COrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
“ COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.’*
/COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-dnv for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
w
leaf
(The B. and N. Treatment).
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying-to
the efficacy, of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Boss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. NEUROZONE is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Frice, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency: 271
COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
a
mm
, Reader, why not he able to use the
most mybterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you caul arn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feata
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
grhtify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the' Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
ing. A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-1
notize. It is a chance of a
lifs-time. Address—
d
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
lemedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
t o all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Fitt-street, Sydney.
TORONTO.
CANADA;
ft
35 BROADWAY, SYDNEY
1163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN. .
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE ’


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
Ellesmere S. June 1.
25,000 Subscribers at 5>
Address
£. t t
Newcastle C.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name_
June 7.
_shares in the above.
Address
Canterbury Midwinter H.
June 23.
25,000 Subscribers at 3.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me — - , . . shares in above.
Name ... . __
Address. „ „
Grand National H.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
Name._. ...
Address _
£ t :
July 7.
shares in the above.
Silver City C. July 25.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
in the above.
Name
Address,
shares
Melbourne C. November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _ ..... __ , shares in the above.
Name —,
Address
Melbourne C.
November 6
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
Name
Address
£ i t
_ shares in the above.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
N
\ \
BAND SAW MlijuS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING.
24- Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
T ° dA
*****
. Qa vaW a ' l 'rt cures
atv» ro y&s
a tvd C °'
uat \ons
T*v© 1
FEDERAL
PALACC
HOT€L
MELBOURNE.
Booms and Accommodation—all prices—ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Booms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING BOOMS AND OAFE
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Manager.
XJSE
SpooQgr’S
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Rlack Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
IrOYALNAVY DRESSIM
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
Ip BOOTS & SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS |
DIREC l lONS FOR USE
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
r -n RY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SOLD sHOPSj SADDLERS, etc.
15
BWWVVO
Q-O TO H~FIT«T■-
lU£>JiANl> for Prelty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN stamp importer,
74 Elizabetli-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, prioe-
lists gratis.
AOStraliai) tytittial ProVidei)t Society.
MONEY TO LENS
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
A
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Blackboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
AST Send for Price List.
H. HILIiIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
Ã
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
bu3 T ers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MEL BOURN E-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE’S PLAN.
FOOD
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
» PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
jyj£|_UN’S FOOD is of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MELLIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ATX DEALERS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL.
Qjii t j
'KVt* V>
M <y ' u
j
c l^j L 4jlojA &***-•
jjow !
KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. . Perfectly
Harmless, Clean,Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i/-, 2/6 and 4 16 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARIGOPAS CO,, LTD.,'
16, Bevis Marks, London, England.
THOMSON’S
MEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING- ’’
CORSETS
ENCKLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
2&
at
T*
,m
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST.
N.B.—Old Model Corsets always in stock.
« x,A NOBLESSE ”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OP ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Cso-> Ld-, London-
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS: 222 CAMNON^ HOUSE E
D E."b"s«» t°o N n°o ", „»* *.»«„ “5/"“'“ M,t “ bl
fn* i« in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
SrJCb“.bST;SdS properties. undertake, bueiweae upon .Met,, Apene, ten.-
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
NS WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNE .
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen „reet. BRISBANE
itr= uiSKPH WOOLF Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W Australia C E STONEMAN. Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
3ST.S.W. Carriage
Note our New Address:
& Saddlery Manf
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Bedfern,
Company,
SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
wttkY BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
laDDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spr.ng Sulkies, £7
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
nmVhle’ Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s Lad ies^Pheatons (single and double). Dog Carts,
anri everv descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order HARNESS and SAPOLERY of every des-
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pa} in
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL Tio. 2
£8 18/6
Ä
DcliTered at any Wharf «r
NJ3.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ A hiss is what you always hear when the
waters of truth drop on the fires of hell. Henry
Clay.
The late Marquis of Queensberry was,
anyhow, a bit more respectable than his grandad,
the notorious “ Old Q.” One of the favorite dissi-
pations of that unvenerable nobleman was a
dinner-party (for males only) the “ attendance
being supplied by a choice assortment of nymphs
mit codings on. And yet the late Marquis felt
shocked at the fondness of his son (Old Q. s g reat-
grandson) for the society of Oscar Wilde. It was
a simply natural development.
Knights Of Chance.
Men do not live in cities. Between the narrow
ways
They walk as meek-faced merchants, dissembling
all their days.
Ours are the open places; ours are the Plain and
Sky ;
The clean, deep-hearted Ranges ; the Hills—which
cannot lie !
Men do but dwell in cities.- Yea, and the hollow
paves
Mock at their cunning makers, mock at their
master-slaves,
Breathing a tainted carbon, starved in a gilded
room,
Moving the round eternal, walled in a high-
housed tomb.
Sick unto death have we been. Pining in wan
distress,
Even as whited shadows, in crowded loneliness.
Sick of the garish highways, crushed by the
houses tall,
Sad of the fevered faces; sad, heart-sad of it all.
So, for the brave wide waters ! So, for the kick-
ing screw!
So, for the north wind racing over the white-capped
blue !
So, for the shouting breakers, the track of the
Overland,
The speech of our strong-thewed Brother, the
laugh that we understand.
We shall be no man’s servants, service to truant
trolls
Owe we, and pay we never, pay with our poor-
priced souls.
Green is the land about us, all by the roadside
fair,
Smoke of our oamp-fires rising—pillars of promise
there.
We shall be lords and masters, we shall be Knights
of Chanoe,
Barons of Bold Adventure, Kings of the stout free
lance,
Ours are the unwalled waters, ours are the West-
lands wide,
Rovers and rovers ever, sons of the Outer-side.
So were our sires before us —they of the ready
hand
Sailing to seas uncharted; faring in No-Man’s-
Land.
West to the open sunset! North to the open
sea!—
So were our sires before us, so shall their children
be !
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
The First Shift.
With song one gang moves outward
To the beaches of the Pole;
They curse within the tropics
That sweat to earn their dole.
Through lack or lust they wander
By bands, and roam alone,
With glamor-lights to lead them
Down by-ways none have known.
They find where leads lie buried,
For each is Fortune’s wooer;
They seek the reef-ridged ranges—
The little hills that lure—
The gold-strewn plain, and terrace
Where flume-fed sluice-streams fall:
And though the world may work them,
The first shift finds them all.
They toil, but sign no pay-sheet—
They take their luck for wage ;
And in the lists of Silence
Throw down to Death their gage,
That they who follow after
May find the paths made plain,
That shifts that follow after
The minted gold may gain.
And none may map the marchings
Their legion leaders led,
And all the round world over
They leave their careless dead ;
The dead that join the chorus
Wafted at evensong,
As mate cheers mate’s misfortune
When luckless days are long.
What though the roads be rugged,
And life a questing chance,
When theirs is Freedom’s revel,
Surpassing all romance !
The world’s wealth-wonders find"' \
True friends and comrades bold •,
Their ways are ever leading
Where lies the cloth o’ gold.
N.S.W.
PROSPEUT GOOD.


THE
PLUM
5=3
Price —SINGLE RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any'
in the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACE RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AXTKEKT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDIXTEY.
The Australian Hjidows’ Fund Qife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
r 1 SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
J- which issues Special Policies granting— /_
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENYVTCK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Seeretarj'.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WOOLG ROWERS?
Tlie enormous amounts that we have expended
in building WAREHOUSES for the
most advantageous display of your Wool and Produce is one of the ways in which we have studied your interests
before our own. IT IS OUR POLICY to never spare our own resources in setting every possible good result for
our supporters.
ALL THE EXPERTS and BUYERS pronounce our Warehouses:
GIVE US
YOUR SUPPORT
P~HE BEST lIM THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE!
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L™
Financiers; Wool , Hides , Tallow , Shins, and General Produce Brokers .
THE ENJOYMENT OF TOBACCO
LARGELY DEPENDS UPON THE
PIPE USED. THE CELEBRATED
I BRIAR PIPES BRANDED
B
BB
OWNVMAKE
| ARE RECOGNISED AS THE MOST
PERFECT, BOTH AS TO
I MATERIAL AND WORKMANSHIP.
Or'catcst demand
Cameo Cigarettes
Because the Best
The Demand for DIXSON’S AMERICAN TOBACCOS
so increases that the sales for Sydney Factory
During 1899 were 77 TONS GREATER than during 1898
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading' Brand in N.S. Wales.
OBTAINABLE THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE OF THE OTHER COLONIES.
CONQUEROR
THE WORKMAN’S TOBAC 30—CHEW AND SMOKING.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
•CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS -
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and , chewing, always the same, never changes.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post OJice, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi.. 21.—N0. 1058.
SATURDAY, MAY 26, 1900.
Prici 60.
\ % \V .<v,V
% v> % <v
KfiSsS^
HjXrX xsv
v*%
*> *.*<*« °a. x
9 x
RELIEF OF MAFEKING.
THE LITTLE BOY OF MANLY: “My word! A few more Maf eking celebrations, and lam undone!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australiab,s. >>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable J, Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in, Black and White,
e**one supplying to Tub Bulletin original humorous
jr offer topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn — will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, "MS Sutter-street.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 33 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition ofl\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — l?d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight — now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of Tiie Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
%rSbizHeivn,.
SATURDAY, MAY 26, 1900.
National v. Local Option.
The brewers and publicans of Maoriland—
or some of them—are endeavoring to work
up an agitation for the abolition of the fcocal
Option vote which now disturbs the country
every three years, and the substitution
therefor of a National Option vote to take
place every nine years only. So far as the
dates are concerned, these astute groggists
have undoubtedly a keen eye to the business
aspect of the case. The .last two or three
Local Option polls have shown that the tide
of Cold Tea is steadily rising. If it con-
tinues to rise at the same pace for another
six years many a now prosperous beer-foun-
dry will only show a desolate chimney-top
looming pinnacle-fashion over the troubled
sea of tracts and ginger-pop. When it is
proposed that there shall only be a National
Option vote once every nine years, it is un-
doubtedly meant that the first vote shall take
place nine years hence, and that there shall
be peace until then, and the reverend
apostle shall be suspended in the interval.
In this respect the grog party is asking
altogether too much. No sane community
is likely to give up, for nine years, its un-
alienable right to make itself miserable and
dyspeptic and flatulent on lemonade if it
wants to, and it is not advisable that it
should. Moreover, it is quite impossible
that it should. To-day’s Parliament may
enact, if it feels so inclined, that the next
anti-liquor poll shall come off in 1909, but it
can’t enact that to-morrow’s Parliament
won’t repeal that enactment and enact some-
thing quite different. One person may tie
another person to something, but nobody
can tie himself to himself with any success.
He may pass a law that he won’t do some-
thing, but he can’t pass a law that will
prevent him changing his mind about it
later on.
♦ • * »
But in the matter of substituting National
for Local Option the idea is doubless a
good one. Local Option is a stunted,
half-hearted, illogical idea at best. When a
country tries to decide whether Protection
or Freetrade is best, or State banking or
railway ownership as against private banking
or private railway ownership, or a gold
standard v. a silver one, or whether it is
best to have land-tax or no land-tax, the
country gives its verdict as a whole. So it
does on every other matter of national im-
portance, except on the question whether
drink should or should not be sold. The
law doesn’t allow one electorate to establish
a State Church, and the next one to make
silver legal tender, and a third to carry out
ideas of its own about a standing army, and
so on. In all these matters it is recognised
that there should be uniformity. And the
drink question should be put on the same
basis. Local Option, at the best, can only
dot the country with teetotal townships
and districts, and however thickly they
may be dotted, there are always drink
townships and districts in between.
The natural result is that there is no
real Prohibition anywhere. The person who
used to get drunk across the street gets his
beer in the adjacent township instead, and
as he can’t go to the adjacent township three
times a day he gets all the drunker when he
does get there. Also, he carries drink home
with him to till in the desolate period ahead,
and if he doesn’t kill himself when he falls
off his horse en route as the natural result
of too much grog taken all at once, he is
probably severely cut and bruised through
sitting down suddenly from a great height
on the bottle.
• • * •
Also, liquor is surreptitiously brought into
a Prohibition district from all sides, and
though it may be reasonably pure and
white in the centre (if it is a large
district), it is a fine, deep-brown beer
color round the edges. In fact, Pro-
hibition can’t be anything like complete
under the Local Option system. Its beauties
haven’t a chance to develope sufficiently to
make other districts rush into the same line
of business, and, on the other hand, its
horrors aren’t sufficiently manifested to make
the local inhabitants swear off the system.
It proves nothing. Maoriland has, at Bal-
clutha, a rigid Cold-Tea settlement of some
years’ standing. It is a prohibition settle-
ment, where anybody can bring in as much
drink as it wants. Like other places, it has
its good and bad features. Its good features
are either owing to the fact that its princi-
ples are Cold Tea, or to the other fact that its
practice is largely Beer, or to something else.
Its bad features are either owing to what
Prohibition there is, or to the want of
more Prohibition, or to something else.
On the other hand, National Option, if
it led to National Prohibition, as it
possibly would sooner or later, would
prove something or other. On an
island province, especially, it would
prove a great deal—provided it was real
Prohibition. If for 50 years it was unlawful
in Maoriland to import, to sell by wholesale
or retail, to buy, to brew, distil or otherwise
prepare, to advertise, to own, drink, inject,
rub on externally, to give away, receive,
exchange or to smell of any kind of strong
drink, or to leave the same exposed in a
public or private place, or to incite any other
person or persons to do any of these things,
or to have the empty bottle in the back yard
or elsewhere—then at the end of that time
the world would really and truly know
something about the case for or against Pro-
hibition, always provided that the penalties
were heavy enough and the law was rigidly
enforced. But it can’t know anything worth
mentioning through the local, or spotty or
fragmentary variety of Prohibition. The
thing is so incomplete that it supplies no
evidence which can be sworn to.
* • * »
Local Option, as now practised, is, in
fact, a mean hypocrisy, and considering how
very strong the teetotal party is in Maori-
land it is difficult to believe that it couldn’t
obtain something better. Maoriland is .the
most democratic of the Australias, and there
the doctrine that the majority must rule is
carried most nearly to its legitimate con-
clusion. Yet in liquor matters this principle
is wholly abandoned. At the triennial Local
Option poll three issues are laid before the
electors. If three-fifths of the votes recorded
in any district (600 out of a poll of 1000) are
for “ no license,” then the retail drink trade
stops in the district publicly, at all
events. If more than half the votes (501
out of 1000) are for “ reduction,” then
the Licensing Committee refuses to renew
not less than one-twentieth or more than
one-fourth of the public-house licenses at
next renewal day. If more than half the
votes (501 out 1000) are for “ continuance ”
then the number of public-houses remains
unaltered till further orders. If no proposal
is carried the result is the same. So the
party which desires to keep things as they
are has two chances while the reduction
party and the abolition party have only one
each. It is a ridiculous thing to'so fix
matters that no proposal at all may be
carried, and that the public may find, when
the poll is over, that according to law they
haven't decided in favor of anything, but the
ridiculous law is fixed that way. Where
1000 voters go to the poll, and nobody votes
for keeping the number of public-houses un-
altered, and 599 vote for total abolition, and
401 vote for reduction, the cause which
hadn t a single supporter wins on the
ground that no proposal was carried.
It wins because the 401 are not an
absolute majority and 599 are not a
three-fifths majority. And, on the other
hand, the party which wants more public-
houses isn’t allowed any voice at all which
is another outrage on the democratic prin-
ciple of majority rule.
♦ • * •
And even if a district carries local prohi-
bition it is an absurdly inadequate kind of
local prohibition in other ways besides those
already specified. If, say, Wellington
carries absolute prohibition, that ought to
mean a great deal more than the mere aboli-
tion of retail licenses. It ought also to mean
that no brewers, distillers or wholesale
dealers shall be tolerated in the Wellington
district, that no imported liquor shall
come ashore at Wellington, and that
no liquor, local or imported, shall be
carried by railway or other convey-
ance through the Wellington district
in order to supply debased localities lying
beyond. If drink isn’t good for Wellington’s
body it isn’t good for Wellington’s soul that
it should make money by supplying grog to
Greytown or Carterton, and if these towns
still dream over the beer-pot their grog
should be imported via Napier or any other
unregenerate port. If all the sea-ports take
to prohibition then the inland beer districts
should make their own grog.
» * ♦ *
This paper strongly desires to see Maori-
land, or some other place, adopt a complete
and logical system of National Prohibition,
and keep at it for 50 years at least. It would
be about the most interesting social experi-
ment of modern days. It would decide
whether Cold Tea is a short road to the
millennium ; whether drink is really the
cause of crime, insanity, physical degeneracy,
curvature of the spine, and countless other
woes ; whether poetry is inspired by drink or
whether it is because poets drink that
their verses aren’t better ; whether whisky
helps or retards literature ; whether a tee-
total nation is a joyless one, which goes to
bed in profound gloom at 9.30, or whether
it is really brighter and happier than the one
which wakes up with a swelled head at
noon ; and many other things. Advocates
on both sides have been declaring for more
years than anyone can count that these
things are so ; also, that these things are not
so ; also, that they are partly so and partly
otherwise. Fifty years of absolute and
logical Prohibition, practised by a strong,
intelligent, and geographically-isolated com-
munity like the Maorilanders would settle
the above questions as they never can be
settled by a million tons of literature and a
million years of argument. The Bulletin
wants to try this great experiment on the
dog, and Maoriland looks the most promis-
ing dog to try it on.
The Early Closing Question.
It is time N.S.W. Supreme Court was spoken to
seriously. It seems to be following in the steps
of the tI.S. Federal Supreme Court, which, what-
ever it may be theoretically, seems to practically
exist only for the purpose of thwarting the
people’s will when the nation makes laws to com-
pel the rich to regard the lives and feelings of
their workers, or attempts to make the plutocrats
pay some fair proportion of national expenses.
Not long ago NtS.W. Supreme Court looked as
though it was going to wreck the Factories Act in
the case where a Sydney firm was prosecuted for
some breach of the regulations. In the recent
case the Labor Dept, against a certain druggist re-
ferred to by Brigham Brown (B. 12/5/’00) the
hair-splitting geniuses who presided at the Court
dealt the Early Closing Act a severe blow. Until
that decision the fact that a shop was open after
hours was a misdemeanor, and the casual police-
man along the “baate” was quite equal to the
maintenance of the law. Now that the Supreme
Court has succeeded in showing “ the fallibility of
words,” the four or five thousand small shop-
keepers of Sydney may open their doors and light
up their shops, and in order to get a conviction
the Crown will have to prove an actual sale, and,
presumably, to satisfy the court that the stuff was
actually paid for—or else it will be gravely an-
nounced that it is not proven that the quarter of
butter and tin of sardines were not meant for a
birthday-gift. To prove this will need the em-
ployment of an army of inspectors, and increase
the cost of government to the whole country in
order to cope with a few thousand possible
offenders in the metropolis. And all that
a few lawyers, who know perfectly well
what Parliament meant when it passed the Bill,
may prove how marvellously they can twist legal
barriers aside. Even if there is a huge army of
inspectors employed, the clumsy decision still
leaves a big gap of escape for the rapacious and
unscrupulous chafferer whose chief end in life is to
drive the law-abiding shopkeeper on the opposite
comer into the Benevolent Asylum. Brigham
Brown argues his case with a plausibility worthy
of a better cause. To doubt the utility of doing
good by legislation for a class which cannot obtain its
relief “by other means” is to fly in the face of
history and experience. What is the good of pro-
tecting by legislation a class that can protect itself
without legislative interference ? We don’t em-
ploy policemen to protect the flagship lying in
Farm Cove; we pay them to protect the people
who cannot protect themselves. The factory sys-
tem of England oppressed, with a hideous servitude
unequalled in history, thousands of children. The
babes were absolutely unable to “revolus'ie”—they
could only die. And they perished by thousands,
and could not alleviate their lot till legislation
alleviated it at a cost of words and ink only. The
shop-hands of Sydney were practically unable to
effect a combination sufficiently powerful to close
up the shops that insisted on selling by day and
by night. To have obtained the reform by “ other
means ” would have meant strikes, lock-outs, and
misery. Legislation did it with a pen-stroke.
Other means ” consist of strikes, or terrorism, or
both—and both are antiquated weapons. The
worker’s modern weapon is the ballot-box. His-
tory shows only too plainly that no privileged
class ever gives up any privilege without a
struggle, and the bourgeois class sticks like wax
to its right to work its helot to death.
* * * •
The Early-Closing Act does not sacrifice the
Thin Man to the Fat. The Attenuated one is at
the mercy of the Adipose right through the piece.
It is the old story of the Briton and Boer over
again. The small man who rents a house with a
shop in front, and in which he works_ when he can
get noticing better to do, and which is run by the
“missus and kids” when he can find other em-
ployment, is the Boer of trade. And the Britons
under “ Bobs ” Foy, Kitchener Hordern and
Redvers Hatte have him at their mercy all
the time. They buy in huge quantities and
cheaper, and can sell cheaper and deliver the stuff
in a nice brightly-painted van, which tickles the
vanity of the large-fronted lydy, who dearly loves
to see a bright equipage at the front door, even if
it is only the debt-collector’s sulky or the big
drapery delivery-cart. The poor Boer shopkeeper
can only hold the trade of a neighborhood till the
bulky one thinks it worth his while to open a
branch alongside and undersell him. Many of
the better class of suburban shops are merely
branches of the big city businesses. I hey stick
a trusted employe as manager, paint his name over
the door, do a thriving busin ss on weekly credit,
and the poor little Boer over the way dwindles
away and gradually dies. He only lives on suffer-
ance, and, as soon as it is really worth the big
man’s while, up the spout goes the Boer. Judg-
ing by the immense growth of the Universal Pro-
videry Emporiums in later years, the small shop-
keeper is going to be as totally extinguished as
the maker of boots-to-order. The small shop may
go on, but it will be run by men who are merely
paid servants of the emporiums, or simply drift
into the business and drift out again in a year or
two.
• m • •
The argument that a man has a right to keep
his place open all night if he works it with his
own family sounds well. But no man has a right
to enslave himself or his family. Both rights
have been abolished ever since the dark ages.
Theoretically it would be best to have a legal
limit to the hours of labor and the rate of interest
and many other tilings. But as long as an em-
ployer can play the trump oard of unlimited com-
petition men who are down on their luck will
permit themselves to be sweated. It would entail
enormous expense to safeguard the interests of
those who obeyed the law, and it is only by abso-
lute uniformity that each member of a trade can
be guaranteed that his competitors will not be able
to take advantage of his respect for the law. Ex-
ceptions are dangerous things, as Sydney has
found out by past experience. When there was
an Early-closing Act in force before there was
some plausible-looking exception by which each
municipality could vote itself right out of the Act,
or refuse by vote to have it applied to their par-
ticular municipal territory. And the man on the
east side of the street was in an early-closing dis-
trict while the man on the west drove a thriving
trade as long as people were walking about. Re-
sult, the law became obsolete.
* * * •
This is the age of big things. All over the
world the big emporium and huge manufacturer
with acres of factories have killed off the small
vendor and mechanic whose factory was his front
room. And perhaps it is best after all; for
socialism ever marches on, and when the colossean
capitalist has systematised everything the time
will be ripe for the State to take over the whole
system of production and distribution. Mean-
while the legislator has to devise a scheme by
which, in the face of the continual sup-
planting of men by machinery in production
and organisation, and system in distribu-
tion, every man shall at least have an opportunity
to work. And, apparently, the only way it can
be done is not by making exceptions to the laws
relating to the limitation of the hours of labor in
favor of the skeleton man, but by reducing the
hours still more and concentrating the country’s
business into a limited space of time, so that it
will need the services of every able-bodied man in
the community to cope with the accelerated speed.
Every community must buy a certain quantity of
food and clothing, and if it can only buy it within
six hours of the 24 the people who sell will have to
employ more hands to sell it in six hours than
would be necessary if they could keep going for 16
hours of the 24. Therefore, let every man who
calls himself a democrat work for cast-.ro i Pro-
tection against the outside world, minimum wage,
and reduced hours of- labor, and then Australia
will indeed be a working man’s Paradise.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Corporal Ben Harkus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The deeds men do of choice
Unurged by taunt or suasion
Of an all-pervading fashion
Craze or fever, true proclaim
Their heart’s desire,
And to the world their truer selves.
Ben Harkus, soldier, champion
Athlete at the games of war,
To England went to joust
And tourney, and in peace
To learn the arts of war.
Returning home,
The call to arms found Harkus
Unprepared to fight for England.
_ Erom his own land stronger
Voices called, and these Ben Harkus—
First a man, and then whatever
Might be—answered.
\V ife and children needed Harkus’ care
And Harkus’ love.
The cry of these was more to him
To answer than to satisfy
The bid for fame and notice of
Some man of State who offered
For the blood-thirst of rapacious war
Free lives and souls not his, and '
Strutted in his pride at
Having first conceived
A “splendid ” deed.
So Harkus home came.
And the crowd, that crowd that
Never fights but jeers and urges on
Others to the fray,
At Harkus jeered, and sent
White feathers.
And the heart of Harkus,
Brave and true, rebelled
That men should call him
Coward.
The first had Harkus been to fight
For hearth and home,
Became he loved them so.
But hearth and home were safe ;
And safe through all the vears
While soldier Harkus stood
Beside to guard them.
So his truer self said :
“ Stay ! ”
But everywhere the war-cry grew
No cry, of reason wanting more.
So Harkus, for his children’s sake /


That Judicial Intrigue.
Little wonder that Kingston characterised S.A.
Chief Justice Way’s back-door conspiracy
directed against clause 74 of the Commonwealth
Bill as an “extraordinary, extra-judicial and
secret intrigue.” Chief Justice Way has now
handed his “letter” (that is hit description of the
document) to the jpress, and it turns out to have
been a 12-page printed pamphlet, marked “ Con-
fidential ” and sent, without doubt, to wherever
in England it was likely to do most harm to Aus-
tralian Nationalism. It is a new thing for a Chief
Justice, appointed and paid to interpret and
administer the law, to attempt to dic-
tate how such law is to be framed. The
greasy little Chief Justice has the effrontery
to reflect on the manner in which the Federal
Conference settled Clause 74 and says that “the
abolition of the appeal to the Privy Council has
not had the support of any widespread expression
of public opinion in Australia. The majority of
S. J. Way’s judgments “have not had the sup-
port,” &c., but that doesn’t carry the inference
that he is an incompetent Judge. The delegates
who agreed to Clause 74 were elected by the
people (which S. J. Way wasn’t; for he was
appointed Chief Justice over the heads of
the other Judges in 1870 by the Ministry
of which he himself was Attorney-General)
and their work was endorsed by the people at re-
ferendum. In his “ confidential ” letter Mr. VV ay
suggests a now clause in place of clause 74, and
tliis seems to be the very amendment now made by
the Imperial Government, viz., to leave it to the
choice of litigants whether they they shall appeal
to the Federal High Court or to the Privy Council.
Way seems to have been eminently successful as a
conspirator. We have now a clue to the persistent
opposition of the London Times. Did Way send
a copy of his 12-page pamphlet to Miss Flow a
Shaw, the charming Jameson Raid lady who pens
editorials for that paper, and does the petticoat-
government of this bleeding country ? r l his is
necessarily mere speculation, as the S.A. Guy
Fawkes doesn’t take the public into his confidence
as to who are his fellow-conspirators. There is
one consolation, after all—Mr. S. J. Way will
never be chosen to represent the Australian Com-
monwealth on the Imperial judicial bench.
Effective Voting.
Adelaide’s lively septuagenarian, Miss C. H.
Spence, has been explaining her life-hobby of
effective voting to a Sydney audience. The Bul-
letin also has explained effective voting several
times ; but as Miss Spence lias been explaining for
41 years, perhaps one more explanation will not
do harm. The ideal of democratic government is
that every adult citizen should have a voice in the
government —based on the belief that a man called
upon to obey laws has a right to share in making
the laws. So, in so-called democratic communi-
ties like the Australian provinces, every man is
supposed to have a vote which he can use to elect
a representative in Parliament. And, where
there is a poll for representatives, the representa-
tive of the majority of voters is supposed to be
elected. As a matter of fact, throughout Aus-
tralia at the present time, not every man has
a vote, and not every representative is elected
by a majority of voters. Because, when there
are several candidates, the votes are often split so
that the successful candidate represents only a
minority, and the majority go unrepresented. It
is the fashion to call a member of Parliament the
representative,” but when there are many voters
who have had no share in electing him—who even
prefer that somebody else should oe elected then
he plainly does not represent them and t/ieir
opinions. To-day, in N.S. Wales, some 21M s.L. A.
are elected by minorities, with the practical
result that the defeated majorities (who split
their votes) are disfranchised, and have no voice
in the Government. It is more or less the same
with every other Australian province ; since m
Tasmania their rather cumbrous system of effect-
ive voting extends only to two towns, and in
Queensland the modifications are so peculiar that
a minority representative may still be elected.
Effective voting changes all that. It provides
that the man whom, on the whole, most ot
the electors prefer to represent them, goes ,
to Parliament. In this way. You have a one-
member constituency which polls, say, 1500 votes
in electing one of, say, three candidates Bbown,
Jones, and Robinson. When you get your
ballot-paper with three names on it, instead of
crossing two names out, you write 1,2, 3, against
the names in the order of your preference. If you
want Brown to get in, you vote for him—l. it
you can’t have Brown, and prefer Jones to
Robinson, then you vote Jones— 2, Robinson 3.
Well, a majority of 1500 votes is 751. If. any
candidate gets 751 votes or more, straight-
away, he is elected, and the majority is
represented. If no candidate gets 751 votes
straight away, then the second preferences re
counted, and the candidate who gets most firat
and second votes— i.e., who has most I s and 2 s
opposite his name on the ballot-papers is elected
andthe majority is represented, lhat is simple
enough. And that is effective voting as it would
apply to secure majonty : representation in the
single-member constituencies of JN.o. vv.
“Social Purity” and the Judicial Bench.
• « Brehon ” writes from Melbourne :
The vacancy in Vic. County Court Bench has given rise
to an outbreak of pustular purity among certain members
“A *he local legal profession. Some ostentatiously God-
fiarinsr aspirants for the vacant position, even, are said
i ‘ afflicted almost to tears at the prospect of certain
fAthariorotic personages having better chances than
themselves Not, of course, because they are rivals, but
because they are Lotharios.
There is much in this crusade that savors of cant and
smells of THOMAS-rot. While there can be no doubt of
the duty to blockade judicial candidates who are likely
to prove incompetent, unfair or corrupt; and while the
moral character of Judges, so far as infringements of the
criminal law, even on the under-16 platform, are concerned,
may be taken into consideration ; there is little doubt that
the application of standxrds of non-legal morality as
a criterion of judicial fitness will ultimately result in the
community being deprived of the services of some of its
best judicial minds, and even to the application of other
non-legal standards such as those of religion, art, science,
and philosophy, or membership or non-membership of
secret societies. It makes one sick to see tlie public go
raving mad with “purity” when a capab’e man with a
weakness for more than one woman as t .Ves to a public
position, and to be utterly and pathetically indifferent
when some “ sweater ” enemy of the human race, or well-
known sycophant for Imperial— i.e., anti-Australian
“dignities” is angling for popular honors or judicial
positions. . ~
The consideration of the sex question seems inseparably
connected with hysterics. It was these hysterics that
led the Irish to commit the one un-Irish crime of their
history—the deposition of Parnell —for the punishment
of which, by the way, H late speech of Salisbury indi-
cates that Karma is on thp job. And if the atavistic
Puritanism of a section of the Vic. bar can have its way,
in the very much smaller sphere of the Vic. County
courts, these unbalancing hysterics will deprive the
already-weak bench there of the best available talent.
Moreover, it is highly undesirable in the public interests
that A, who has a private personal grievance against B
should be encouraged to rake up before Minister C all the
blue stories floating about concerning B, as reasons why
the public should not have the benefit of the superior
learning and judicial ability of B. This is just the kind
of thing which such a crusade as that now going on m
Melb. will tend to make painfully frequent in Victoria.
4.
Concerning Liquor Legislation.
As the result of recent disclosures by Mr. Percy
Wilkinson and Prof. Blackett the Victorian
Govt, will, it is hoped, pass an amendment of the
Health Act prohibiting the use of salicylic acid
and other anti-ferments' by vignerons jand wine
merchants. At the present time fully 45 per cent,
of the Victorian wine on the market is much
adulterated with acids, from which European wine-
drinkers are protected by stringent legislation.
To an intelligent Frenchman or German, accus-
tomod to drink light wines and lager biers with
the oomforting conviction that a paternal Govern-
ment has guaranteed their wholesomeness, the
tricks of the Victorian trade must appear as
further proofs of the stupidity of the Anglo-Saxon
race in matters pertaining to its unenlightened
stomach. Under the Union Jack dyspepsia
flourishes abominably for the reason that the
“children of the Empire” eat and drink without
thought for their internal arrangements. Victorian
wine is “readied up” with salicylic acid simply
because nobody protests against the outrage. The
same thing would be done with new vintages in
Europe hut for public insistence on a careful State
supervision of wine manufacture. It is not only
that the Law exacts a heavy penalty from
the sinners convicted of putting anti-ferments
into grape-juice. Health laws avail little where
the people take little or no trouble to compel the
Government to enforce them. In the. case of the
Victorian wine scandal the authorities may bo
expected to show a little less indifference than
usual, seeing that an important national industry
must depend for its success upon a stern enforce-
ment of the Act, but all the same the local con-
sumer, who has selfish motives for hoping that the
local product will soon be popular on its merits
both at home and abroad, will do well to take a
livelier interest in the liquor question. Vile
whisky is nominally an unlawful tiling, and Cus-
toms officers are supposed to take proceedings
against licensed victuallers who keep the perni-
cious stuff in stock, and the consumer ougnt to
want to know why the yellow-haired girl behind
the bar is allowed to sup «ly him with clumsily-
rectified methylated spirit in lieu of old Scotcn.
But the consumer takes the poison uncomplain-
ingly as though he were lined with zinc. Legis-
lation is thrown away upon him.
In the natural course of things the overwhelming
British forces are better led as time goes on,-also
the Boer letreats grow more and more wily. Each
side is discovering who’s who among it? leaders,
big and small, but as the larger army has by far
the larger number of officers who can make or
mar success within their spheres of administration
it stands to reason that Roberts increases his ad-
vantages by every fresh sifting of the wheat from
the chaff. Bennett Burleigh wrote, on March
6th :—“judging from the reports brought me, and
from the number of prominent officers now
‘ marking time ’ along the lines of communication,
there have been many ‘ found out ’ upon this side
as undeserving of the positions they occupied and
the trusts they were incompetent to discharge. 1
am satisfied that at least in one instaiice a
certain leader by his tactics allowed 2000 Boers
to slip free when they should have been caught to
a man. For that he and others have been
transformed into ‘ forwarding agents,’ directors
general of ‘bully beef and biscuits,’ instead of,
as they aspired to be, leaders of men in the field.
Gen. Kelly-Kenny remarked to me the other
day, ‘I have been wofully undeceived in many
things in this campaign. Men I had thought
were splendid fellows, who would have gone any-
where and done anything, have betrayed them-
selves as the rankest frauds, and those had ex-
pected little from have done great things. It is
not generally known—or not remembered, at any
rate—that a third, or more, of Cronje s crowd
escaped from the Paardeberg “trap’ five days
before the others surrendered. Commandant 1)e
Beers, with 2000 men on the best nags, made a
dash through the darkness and got away quite
comfortably. De Beers has been in another
/‘trap,” or two, since then, but he is still roaming
at large.
Behind Premier Seddon’s health visit to Rara-
tonga is said to lie a scheme for the establishment
of a South Pacific federation embracing Fiji,
Tonga and the Cook Islands with headquarters in
Maoriland. If there is anything in the rumor,
the idea is probably dictated by a desire on Sed-
don’s part to hold a few bluff cards should the
tariff of the Australian Commonwealth threaten
Maoriland’s commercial interests. Australia s
export trade to M.L. is hardly worth talking about,
but its exports to the South Sea Islands are con-
siderable, and Seddon doubtless thinks that if he
is in a position to tax the Commonwealth s Island
trade the Federal Parliament will hesitate ere it
excludes M.L. from free access to the Australian
markets. The idea of an island federation is not
bv any means new, as it was entertained at different
times and in different forms by Hori Grey and
Julius Vogel.
*
Judge Gibson, being assured by counsel for two
accused miners at Broken Hill that it had always
been a common practice for the men to take speci-
mens, and that nearly every house in the place
had more or less of a collection, said that in that
case he must pass such a sentence as would show
the workmen that there was no difference between
taking specimens and stealing ore. bo he sent
them “ up ” for two years.apiece. But the principle
is bad. When men do a thing which they know
is illegal, which they know is a crime, and for
which they know they will be punished if their
crime is discovered, and especially if that particu-
lar crime is growing, it may be a fair thing to pile
on the punishment. That is, if the light punish-
ment previously inflicted has not deterred, a Judge
may be justified in trying what a stiffer term will
do. But when, after years of official inaction,
during which a practice has established itself with-
out protest, and when the new hands see the
old hands do it without molestation, it is
obviously unfair (obviously, anyhow, to one who
doesn’t happen to be a judge) to give the first
chance victims a heavy sentence because of the
frequency of the crime. It isn’t surprising, then,
that these two particular miners are reported to be
getting a great deal of local sympathy, which has
already materialised into the form of a petition to
the Minister for Justice.
“ A. J.H.” (an Englishman) to The Bulletin :
“ England,” says Rev. Hugh Price-Hughes, “ is now
fighting against the slavery of the African race as truly as
the Northern States fought against it in the Oivil War.”
Also various other jingo parsons talk to the same effect.
On the Rand the “ boys ” get £4 10s. a month, while in
Rhodesia it is illegal to pay them more than 255. a month.
This is “ to prevent wealthy syndicates monopolizing the
labor supply.”
In ’97 the Chartered 00. required 100 boys for telephone-
line construction work in southern Rhodesia. The Native
Commissioner for the district notified the indunas, but
no boys offered. N.C. reported to Buluwayo and received
instructions from the Government to compel indunas to
supply boys in proportion to the strength of their kraals.
I saw the letter, and was present when one induna
(despite his protest that, through rinderpest and bad
seasons all his men were required to furnish food for the
kraal by hunting and fishing), was ordered to send in 20
boys by a certain day. The required number was in this
way secured, and received £1 per month, with 2Ubs. of
mealies (maize) and a little salt per day. At that time
20s. in Rhodesia was equal in purchasing power to about
12s. in Johannesburg, or to about 6s. in Sydney. I fear
that the Transvaal Kaffir, forced to work for the equiva-
lent of Is. 6d. per week, 100 miles from his home, while
his family are half-starved through want of the food he
should be procuring for them, will hardly appreciate the
“ glorious freedom under the British flag ” that the par-
sons are helping to thrust upon him.
We hear much from parsons about individual cases of
Boer brutality. I am perfectly certain that many of these
stories are absolutely false, and that 90 percent, of the
balance are greatly exaggerated. As for any genuine
ones—l can, f rom personal exoerienee, parallel them with
equal or worse cases of brutality on the part of Britishers.
Also, if the Boers treat Kaffirs so savagely, how is it that
their “ boys ” remain with them for years, on their farms
in the Transvaal, on hunting expeditions into the heart of
Africa, or while transport-riding in Bechuanaland and
Rhodesia, where the boy who wishes to leave his “ baas ’
has nothing to do but simply vanish during the night.
I know of many cases where boys have spent nearly their
whole lives in the service of the one Boer family, and have
usually found that two or three of a burgher’s boys (he
requires several to see to oxen and waggons) havo been
with him for some years.
I have no sympathy for maudlin Exeter Hall sentiment
concerning the “ poor heathen,” for I know that firmness,
even harshness, is necessary in dealing with them ; but
after such speeches as those of Engineer Hammond and
millionaire Rudd (8., 5/5/’(>0), who can imagine for a
moment that the Kaffir will pain anything by this war ?
And the jingo jiarson who cries out that this is a “war
for humanity ” is merely, in Chinese phrase, “ saving his
face ” while, forsaking Christianity, he bows down before
the great god Gold.
Mow many of the Ministers, how many even of
the Premiers, who have lately cabled to Chamber-
lain telling him not to leave off the war till he has
got the Boers right under his feet and the repub-
lics ended absolutely—how many of them could
give a fairly correct account of South African con-
ditions ? How many of them know jthe relative
proportions of Englishmen and Dutchmen in
South Africa? How many know, or havo a fairly
intelligent idea, of the feeling in the British S.
African colonies on the subject ? And, if they are
not well-informed on these subjects, what is their
advice worth ? Hardly to be wondered at, in view
of this obvious jumping at conclusions, that Cham-
berlain and his officers view our Commonwealth
Bill—the work of the same and other hands—with
so much suspicion and search it so thoroughly !
■+.
A Maoriland person named Haybittle or Egg-
bottle, or something like that, advances this idea
in a Wellington (M.L.) paper: —
Kindly allow me through the medium of your widely-
circulated paper to lay before the people of New Zealand
a plan for the perpetuation of the memories of those New
Zealand heroes who have fought, bled and died for Queen
and country on South African battlefields. My suggestion
is that all New Zealand newspapers or mayors open Is.
subscription lists for the purpose of erecting a marble
monument in Wellington to their memories. Should this
be responded to by every adult in New Zealand, as I
certainly think it would be, there should be sufficient to
erect four monuments, one in each of the principal centres.
Of course, the war is not over yet; but I think the end is
not far away. A considerable time would elapse before
the idea could be carried out, as details would have to be
procured, plans drawn and monuments designed I
would suggest that those who have died on the battlefield
should have their names engraved on the front of the
monument, and those who have died through sickness on
the side.
Now why in the name of wonder should those
who died of sickness be shunted away at the side
of the monument, as if they were inferior cattle ?
Fancy putting the name of James 111. of Scot-
land, who was killed in trying to got away from a
battlefield in record time before the fight had well
commenced, on the front of a monument, and
Wellington, Napoleon, Du Guesulin, Suwar-
row, Osman of Plevna and Washington on the
side ! Besides, a man isn’t always a hero because
he goe3 to war; many a man goes to war because
he doesn’t know what it is like, an 1 is very sorry
indeed when he gets there. And the wild demand
of Mr. Strawbottle for four monuments— four
monuments for a few dozen men out of a whole
force of a very few hundreds who went to war with
about the smallest Power on earth, and didn t
come back ! If Maoriland ever has a real war it
will take, at this rate, about 1700 big monuments
to commemorate her dead, and it wouldn’t be a
very great war even then.
Many friends of an industrial minimum-wage
complain that the methods of N.S.W. Works
Minister O’Sullivan fan strong prejudices against
it. Instead of one Minister going alone, the
Cabinet should have adopted the principle or sub-
mitted it to Parliament for discussion. At pre-
sent, certain members of the Cabinet speak dis-
paragingly of the innovation, and it is taken for
granted that Premier Lyne and Minister See are
directly hostile. Lyne and See are, at all events,
connected with private industrial occupations
where the principle is designated rank heresy.
The position, therefore, is that O’Sullivan seems
to be allowed to use the minimum-wage in his de-
partmsnt as bait to capture the Labor-party, but
if he fails to capture that party or a serious
political row ensues the minimum-wage will be
repudiated by the Govt. If the latter, the prin-
ciple will receive a set-back from which it will take
long to recoven
“ Ignotus ,” on Prayer :
Charged with praying for the dead, the Archbishop of
Canterbury replied that he only prayed for the faithful
dead ; and that, as we have a distinct promise that such
will be saved, we may pray for them, “ knowing that they
will be ” just as we pray “ Thy kingdom come,” knowing
that it will come. But then . . . Well, if it is unfair to
bet on a certainty . . . what is it to pray for a certainty ?
Suppose I pray that the offspring of my ewes, if any, may
be lambs, and not weasels. Would not Dr. Temple regard
this as indecent, and call me a profane jester ? May I not,
then, ask if he is serious? Perhaps the only answer is
that widespread psychic delusions occur, that they are
caused by bacilli, and that his Grace has got the bacillus
religiosus, rar.Christianus, and consequently cannot reason
or be reasoned with on the subject of his delusion. To
get away from religion : when people believed in witches,
it was useless to argue with them. Swarming with the
bacilli, women actually confessed to Satan as their para-
mour. Now that the witchcraft bacillus has died out, and
become extinct like the Dodo, we regard “ witches ” as
conscious impostors. The bacilli of the different religions
unfortunately affect so many that the sane minority have
to lie low. Otherwise, surely a man who draws £.15,000
a year as a kind of ambassador to Heaven, and, as part of
his duty, prays for what must necessarily happen (in his
belief) whether he prays or not, is guilty of obtaining
money under false pretences, and should get a month
without the option.
♦
At the very moment when N.S.W. Govt, is buy-
ing back the Darling Harbor frontages—buying
back at a cost of millions what was sold for hun-
dreds only, two miles of deep-water frontage
parative song—comes a proposal to alienate for a
also in the heart of the harbor—doubtless to be
bought back for more millions by the next
generation ! And North Sydney Council
ass - concensus brays, “By all means. Cer-
tainly. Why not ?The transfer grab is being
engineered on behalf of the Milson family
of Crown grantees, who control no less than 75
acres of land at Cremorne Point, not far from
Circular Quay but on the opposite side of Sydney
Harbor. They offer to surrender about six acres
of land without a water frontage, worth some
few hundreds an acre, in exchange for over
ten acres of water-frontage land with a
prospective value of hundreds of thousands
of pounds! An interesting daily-papor corres-
pondent shows that the first grab at the water-
frontages was made in 1877 —and missed ; but the
Milsons have kept on grabbing at intervals ever
since—in the hope that some day a Govt, will
arise which can lie persuaded to negotiate the
exchange. This tenacity in pursuit of private
interests at the public expense is truly monumontal
—and the monument should be erected on
Cremorne point.
Pastor Jefferis, visiting from Adelaide, and
Speaker J. P. Abbott achieved an accentuated
difference in Pitt-street Congregational Church
(Sydney) one night last week on the question of
retaining the Privy Council right of appeal. Dr.
Jefferis whole-h ear tod ly championed the Aus-
tralian'High Court, while the Speaker argued for
the maintenance of tlie P.C. One new point and
a valuable one was made by the Adelaide parson
—namely, that it is against Australian national
policy for a Judge to sit in Parliament, and inas-
much as members of the judioial committee of the
P.C. may sit and vote.in the House of Lords, that
healthy principle is there disregarded while here
it is an article of political faith. It is a fact that
in the early days Australian Judges sat in Parlia-
ment, but special statutes were enacted disqualify-
ing them from Parliament while they retained the
office of J udge.
When the Stuatit-D alley Administration came
into power in N.SAV., Teece, M.L. A., thought
the democratic hour had struck, a,nd ho submitted
to the Assembly a motion declaring that fees for
elementary education in N.S.W. State schools
should be discontinued forthwith. The word
“forthwith” created trouble, and on its being
dropped the motion flew through with a majority
of 40 to 2G. The Administration thereupon pro-
mised to introduce the necessary legislation on the
first possible opportunity. But Ministerial jun-
keting and general prodigality drained the
Treasury in the early stage, and the Soudan war-
orgy dried it up in the latter, so the beggarly
threepennies wore still needed to keep the State
going. Since then Parliament after Parliament has
expressed itself favorable to the remission of
those fees, but Ministry after Ministry demands
the money. The House now sitting under Lynk
is as favorable to the remission as any of its pre-
decessors ; more so, for a motion such as Teeoe’s
will any week carry a two to one majority ; but
the Treasury yawns. Boer-baiting, like the
Soudan nigger-baiting, holds out a capacious,
rapacious paw, and plague and other miseries yell
for monetary comfort. Is, then, the discon-
tinuance of these scandalous fees to be indefinitely
postponed under the Lyne Govt, as under its
predecessors for seventeen years past ? Members
with the faith of the 46 to 26 should reply “ No.
Whatever way the Lyne Govt, provide for the
future (and there are many ways), this iniquitous
impost must be removed.
When Mommsen, the German historian, wrote in
the North American Review concerning the
situation in South Africa, Prof. Sonnenschein, of
Birmingham, wrote asking for the foundation of
the accusations made in that article. Mommsen
replied as follows :
Allow me to answer you in a few words. Withoiri
England not a voice is heard in defence of your South
African war. It is the case of Dreyfus directed against
England. Can you believe that this general disapproba-
tion is unfounded ? Many of your countrymen concur in
the opinion of the continent, but they must be silent:
right or wrong. “My country !” The Boer Government
may have given reasons for complaint; but that is not the
cause but the pretext of the war. Whosoever remembers
the history of the diamond fields and the annex-
ation of Kimberley, will find it impossible to take
Lord Salisbury’s assurance seriously : “We do not
desire extension of territory, we seek no goldfields.”
Jameson’s raid is now generally deprecated, but will you
dare to assert that, at any rate, a part of your Government
was not concerned in that shameful crime ? Will you dare
to assert that that crime was punished as it deserved by
Parliament and the Court of Justice ? You would wish to
distinguish between England and Cecil Rhodes and his
gang, but in vain. Can England claim any belief in her
good faith after these occurrences, and after the manner
in which these were officially treated ? Can you seriously
believe that a nation like the Boers could have desired to
carry on a war of conquest against the British Empire ?
They remembered only a century of injustice and crime,
and defended themselves of necessity—alas, in vain.
Henceforth the Dutch at the Cape will form a second
Ireland, and the avengers will arise sooner or later.
Believe me, every friend of England mourns over such
victories as these.
For some time before the overthrow of
the last Vic. Ministry, foxy old Graves, M.L.A.,
had been wanting information rc a previous
Government’s grant of certain Crown reserve land
to a certain influential citizen. With the advent
of M'Lean and Co. to office Graves’ question
seems to have disappeared from the notice-paper.
Graves supports the present Ministry, by the
way.
Premier Seddon’s promise last session re
establishment of workmen’s homes near cities is
to be fulfilled right away. As a start Govt. i 3
procuring 80 acres at the Hutt, a suburb of Wel-
lington, and trains are to be run to suit, railway-
tickets costing the nominal sum of 2s. per week.
This reduction in workmen’s fares eomes into
operation in the four big cities—Wellington,
Auckland, Christchurch, and Dunedin—imme-
diately. The area of the suburban plots to be
offered will be from one to three acres. Three
acres and a cow !
That none might send the feather
Unto them in after years
As emblem of their father's state,
Rode out, his house full set
In order.
And soldier Harkus now is dead.
Nor in the rush of battle either,
But in throes and ravings
Of a fell disease that follows
War as vultures follow death.
And, strange it is,
The news comes tardy home
As if in Harkus’ death
Some men might see what
Those who ory for war would hide.
Sleep deep, Ben Harkus, sleep !
Men true do mourn thee as a martyr
To a curse.
Not true unto thyself thou wert,
But in thy very failure to maintain
The cause thy heart deemed right,
More truth is taught than
Hadst thou been so.
Sleep deep, Ben Harkus !
Sleep !
Thy monument sure no unveiling
Needs.
N.S.W.
SACER.


@2
AGENTS
THE TRANSVAAL WAR !
The PREMO CAMERA
18 IN THE FRONT RANK
'■K HAND CAMERAS,
AND CANT BE BEATEN.
Price, 255. to £2O.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
260 Collins-st., Melbourne. 81 Queen-st., Brisbane. 65 Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Tbl
mi
mu
■
i^sms
" •:
The
JENNINGS PATENT
CENTRIFUGAL PUMP
FOR
Tailings, Suction Dredging,
Alluvial Mining,
Irrigating, e t c .
DEMONSTRATED
TO HOLD
FIRST PLACE
HICH EFFICIENCY F ° R
AND
REMARKABLE ECONOMY
Sole Manufacturers for
South Wales :
The Clyde
Engineering Cov
<Ltd) GRANVILLE
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’* “ Magda."
Royal ......... “ Tanqueray," Sea.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Criterion “ East Lynne.”
Palace .. Victor—lllusionist.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ What Happened to Jones.”
Her Majesty’s -f«S na f ore ' f t> »
\ Pirates of Penzance.
Theatre Royal “ The Ladder of Life.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Town Hall Scherek’s Orchestral Concerts.
(Saturday Afternoon.)
AthemiEum Hall War Biograph.
“East Lynne” is playing to pretty full
houses at the Criterion, and for those who like
this sort of amusement, the death scene wherein
Lady Isabel squirms on the floor in an unnaturally
seductive tea-gown is all that can be desired.
After the first act or two this stout lady seems to
subside on to the floor almost entirely, and spend
the most of her time on all-fours calling for her
cheeild and repenting of her sins. As she has only
one sin these remarks of hers sound somewhat
ostentatious. But as Archibald Carlyle also refers
to it in the plural number (in the scene where he
nobly forgives her for not understanding without
being told that he chased the other girl
merely as a lawyer and a brother), there may
be some good reason for this mysterious
multiplication. The curious difference between
the old and new literature on the gone-astray
woman is seen from the first act, where a common-
place scion of nobility nurses his gouty heritage of
dissipation while he calmly lets out that, owing to
his extravagance, Lady Isabel will never inherit a
penny. A modern playwright would harp back
on this disreputable old gentleman as the prime
cause of the after-trouble, as, according to the
book, he undoubtedly was, but in “Lynne,”
written by the estimable lady once described as
an “educated housemaid,” Lady Isabel takes her
one large sin on her own plump shoulders, without
any outside assistance whatever.
** * *
The lachrymose drama at the Theatre
Royal is now well in its second week. This scribe
has referred to it as one of Brough’s best, and the
fact that the public don’t seem to take to it very
well is confirmatory evidence as to this writer’s
soundness of judgment. The public’s opinion has
to be taken upside-down, as it were, as a drama
which has neither a fallen woman nor the relief of
Ladysmith in it has no great literary value
in these present times. There is no fallen
woman in the “Tyranny”—only a fallen
teacup and an outraged "photograph. Also,
there is no impossible situation in the play,
except perhaps that of the girl that munches cake
during a proposal. Most girls find proposals
sweet enough to chew by themselves. But the
audience rises with a strong desire to hear more of
that girl and the home of the colossal rice-pudding
and the vasty mutton-stew. By the way, one small
slip in Act 2. Gentlemen in good society surely
don’t inform their host that they have had an ex-
cellent dinner. It is taken for granted that he will
not give them boiled horse.
** * *
“Oliver Twist,” an ancient play, so old as
to be practically new, was staged at Her Majesty’s
on Saturday night. It is redolent of the days
when men were hanged in public, and cockney
dialect consisted in using w’s for v’s, and thieving
was a profession, for which the Fagin light-finger
exercises were dutifully practised by all such as
were deemed worthy to graduate in that branch of
education.
*** - *
The Dickens’ drama wanders backwards
and forwards from the plaguey, dirty-looking
garrets where these scholastic courses are given, to
various street scenes in which the large London
population is always so remarkably absent. Also,
there is much unnecessary fuss over a good, but
rather imbecile boy, who fluctuates between the
unreal legs of stage-poverty and the black Sand-
ford and Merton costume in which he looks much
nicer and plumper than small good boys ought to
look. The pursuit of this uninteresting kid
through five acts, and the weary prologue-
exoneration of his unmarried parents, is light-
ened by some original love-scenes between a cer-
tain Nancy and her Bill, who are understood to
be married through their tendency to project the
furniture at one another.
* * » •
The only interesting items are when this
Bill wearily arises and stoushes his Nancy, com-
plaining bitterly when her impudence in daring
to eat or move in his presence compels him to
this duty. The play is badly strung together.
It doesn’t begin at the beginning, and it leaves
off before Sikes is caught. It leaves him coaxing
an invisible dog, and then moves abruptly off to
the prison cell of a certain Israelite who has been
arrested, tried and convicted in five minutes for
no very well explained reason.
* • * *
As Nancy, the American comes up to her
Elizabeth standard, which goes to prove that
Nance can do anything except frolic, and as there
are plenty of other artistes to act the giddy lamb,
this paper hopes Miss O’Neil will be warned and
never again be giddy except in a large and
majestic way. The slouch, and the skirt lolloping
into the heels, and the ungainly attitudes of
Nancy are all as they ought to be, and
even in the murder scene where she travels
along the floor on her battered face this
actress just manages to escape the grotesque. It
is a common Whitechapel murder, and for those
who like their murders without any frill it is just
right. Kingston does well as the Jew who is
hanged on general principles, and M‘Kee Rankin,
in his make-up as the world-famed Sikes, justified
the remark of a dress-circle spectator who evi-
dently didn’t remember the story and hadn’t
looked at the programme: “ He’s a regular Bill
Sikes sort of fellow, isn’t he?” It is certainly
oreditable when a man can be said to belong to the
same type as himself.
** * #
At the House of the Dreadful Curtain,
otherwise the Tivoli, the warble of Tom Browne,
the whistler, is heard no more. But the small
infant, Boy Cashiu, still holds on his triumphant
way in company with the Newsky Family, who
are rendering the songs and dances of all nations,
and Madame Cordelia, who is adroit enough to
always sing her best songs in response to an
encore. Her rendering of “ She was bred in Old
Kentucky ” is very charming, while the lady’s
dressing is a sartorial rebuke to those misguided
damsels who believe that beauty consists of a large
expanse of dull, white flesh. The latest arrival is
Miss Irene Franklin, whose speciality is said to
be a song of gestures. This scribe has not yet
looked upon the lady’s songful hands, but hopes
to do so next week.
** * *
At the Palace, that gorgeous house of
Arabian arches, Victor plays fantastic tricks with
an infant in a box, said infant appearing suddenly
from nowhere back beyant. He also talks in six
or more different voices while doing several other
things with his mouth, and performs a number of
other tricks more or less brilliantly or indifferently
according to the taste of the beholder, and con-
cludes each with the Babylonian gag, “Now, I’ll
show you how it’s done !”
* *
At the Lyceum, Charles Holloway opens
his 60th week with a revival of Walter Beynolds’
dreadful melodrama, “The Shamrock and the
Bose.” The edge of the dreadfulness is somewhat
blunted by the beautiful scenery, where moon-
light, glittering ocean, ruined abbeys and Sarda-
napalian dairies make up a combination of loveli-
ness, and which applied to the production of the
short story drama, such as the Broughs produce,
would be altogether charming. But the “Sham-
rock and the Bose ” is a drama that barks round
the four corners of impossibility at once, and is
all tangled up, and leaves the mind in a state of
chaos, through which whirl and flee Irish evic-
tions, wicked Irish land-agents, infamous mort-
gagees, gorgeous scenery, criminal courts held in
the front garden, sudden murder, loot, secret
societies, matrimony, and general imbecility.
Somewhere about 11 p.m. the audience dodders
into the street and don’t know where it are, and
when it finds out, all the pubs are closed and the
price of oysters raised to 9d. per small plate. The
undesirable character of blood-sucker Flint is
played for all it is worth by George Chalmers,
while Hugh Power as the billy-goat Englishman
who finds things in Ireland different to what
they are in England, and Miss Deorwyn who, as
Peggie O’Bafferty, comes to an untimely mar-
riage in the 4th act, do good work ; but the gem
of the show is the laugh of Mixy Mulcahy, alias
J- P. O’Neill, the jovial Irish informer, which far
outshines even the gorgeous scenery.
** * *
Donald M‘Dougall and his brethren in
kilts continue to battle for the Flag at Melbourne
Boyal. Also the pair of base conspirators persist
with their awful foolishness as regards the illegiti-
mate mother from Bussia, and the steam-hammer,
and the mihsing codicil of the gallant geezer who
gets murdered in the first act. At time of
writing a large force of dauntless patriots in the
stock-broking line were under orders to enjoy
a great Demonstration at the Boyal on the
night when Mafeking got relieved by cablegram,
but, owing to a forward movement in The Bulle-
tin’s publishing arrangements this paragraph can
give no actual details of the event. All the same,
it feels certain that the ardent brokers sang
“Buießritannia” with unfailing energy, and were
“heard to advantage” in a new song entitled
1 Marching with Bobs to Pretoria.” These things
were promised, and nothing but an earthquake
could have prevented the wet function from being
duly carried out.
** * *
Queen’s Birthday is also accountable for
The Bulletin’s bare mention of the fact that
Pinafore” was produced at Her Majesty’s (late
Alexandra) on Saturday night. “ Pinafore ”is an
old favorite which carries its own recommendation,
anyhow. Moreover, Kenningham, Brownlow,
Harry Shine, Bathurst, Miss Carrie Moore,
and Miss Vane are guarantees of the William-
soman management’s good faith. “Pinafore”
will reign at the renovated theatre this week, what
time the smell of newness and fresh paint is wear-
ing off. Next Saturday (26th), “Pirates of
Penzance ” will come along, and a week later Miss
Nance O’Neil is to mak£ her first appearance in
Melbourne.
** * *
“What Happened to Jones,” preceded by
the curtain-raiser narrative of the lass who loved
a soldier and got left, is still gathering in many
dollars at the Princess’s. But as “Jones” can’t
go on for ever, the advt. mentions that Charles
Arnold’s next production will be “ The Pro-
fessor’s Love Story, ” which will probably come to
pass when the career of Jones is eight weeks old.
** * *
At the Bijou a number of new items were
to crop up last Saturday, and this notice boldly
assumes that they cropped, as per announcement.
Francie Adler, four Sisters Williams, two Sisters
Anderson, and some trick-cyclists were brought to
fill the medium-sized gap left by the departure of
Irene Franklin, the trade-marker. Amann is still
varying his face to numerous audiences, and his
appalling Queen Victoria countenance will cele-
brate an S2nd birthday to-morrow (24th), when the
reverent admirers of that famous British institution
will be expected to sing their Anthem with par-
ticular earnestness. And why not ? Old age is a
thing to be encouraged in all persons, queens, or
otherwise.
*# * *
Benno Scherek’s Orchestra, which earned
Melbourne’s best respects last winter, starts a
new series of Saturday matinee concerts at the
Town Hall on the 26th—next Saturday. Miss
Una Bourne will re-appear with the Orchestra
and play the pianoforte share in Rubenstein’s D.
Minor Concerts, and the prices will assume the
businesslike proportions of “ three, two, and
one.”
** * *
A War Biograph, the same as lately
boomed at the Palace Theatre (Lon.) has started
(D.V.) a season at Melb. Athenaeum Hall. Seven
miles of films are said to be reflected on the sheet
in this case, and the show lasts two hours or
thereabouts.
At Poverty Point.
There is a flea in the ointment of the theatrical
managers m Melbourne just now. They are all doing
preat business, but their enjoyment of present successes
b y the Prospect of a plague outbreak and a
L b ea P anl p- However liberal a management may
be with soap and flea-powder, a theatre must necessarily
De something m the nature of a great insect-exchange.
, Arnold wrote to L. J. Lohr from America that
"ad struck a better farce than “Charley’s Aunt.”
• VT ??’” re i° ined Lohr, or words to that effect—“ I’m
in the biz, you know.” But Arnold wouldn’t admit that
he was wasting puff upon a mere manager, and Lohr has
now caught the enthusiasm just as badly over “ Jones.”
Business with “ What Happened to Jones” for the first
four weeks was away ahead of that done at New York in
tne initial production, and the drummer’s comedy was a
very great success in N.Y. Broadhurst, the manufacturer,
has taken about £lOO in royalties out of the Australian
run so far.
“ Skulll ” ; Notice “ East Lynne ” and “ The Tyranny of
tears advertised in Sydney papers. Same play ?
Kyrle Bellew was at latest dredging at Maytown (Q.).
Ex-priest Slattery, who was at latest whooping up the
good old fight on the congenial soil of Tasmania, seems
to have had a bad time in Maoriland, where the press was
utterly dumb about him and people were very charv
about giving him the use of halls. He was refused ad-
vertising space, and was practically ignored by the clergy.
“ J-S.” : When I first heard Rickards sing the A.M.B. I
felt that I could never forget him. But I do now that
I ve heard James Bain’s parody on the ditty and seen his
Hop-like caricature of the singer. How the house
tumbles to it” when Bain takes a fall out of “ Pie pie
pie ! ” • r •
Mrs. Fyvie-Dench, a clever Adelaide amateur, has
joined Williamson’s Opera 00. and is understudying
frothy Vane. In the last performance of “ Pinafore ” in
Adelaide, old-time tenor Leumane took Kenningham’s
place. Leumane still runs his wattle farm at Balhannah,
Rickards hopes to open the re-built and re-decorated
Adelaide Bijou on Saturday, June 1 16, with a strong
variety show. Owners of Adelaide Royal are still without
a successor to Wybert Reeve.
“ Haresfoot While Queen Elizabeth, in Miss O’Neil,
walks the boards, I met another. Signora Majeroni, in
Melb. to-day. To be sure her Elizabeth was only an echo
of that of her illustrious aunt, llistori, but it was pic-
turesque and impassioned. Eduardo Majeroni, the most
charming gentleman who ever trod Australia’s stage, will
be remembered as the incomparable Essex, both Italian
and English. I need only mention his replicas in appear-
ance, George and Mario.
“Paradis”: Miss O’Neil is a reminder of the other
great Miss O’Neill, who became Lady Becher. Sheil fell
m hive with her, wherefore he wrote his play of the
Apostate,” in which she acted ; also his adaptation of
Evadne, from Shirley. Recalls, somehow, Gibbon
proposing to Lady Elizabeth Bristol, when she expressed
admiration for “The Decline and Fall.” Likewise of
President Lincoln praising Hackett’s Falstaff, after which
Hackett asked to be appointed Ambassador in London.
Queen Elizabeth, late of Her Majesty’s, Sydney, is a
more or less wicked libel on the stern, voluptuous, daughter
of Anne Boleyn. That Queen Bess hugged whom she
listed and removed t heir heads if they showed any distaste
to her embraces is about as correct as anything'can be in
history. But that she allowed her emotions to interfere
with her state-craft is too baseless a slander to go uncon-
tradicted, and more than one budding statesman found
himself suddenly heaved out of England’s councils because
when discussing serious business he attempted to play on
Bess’s well known love of flattery. Still, Nance O'Neil’s is a
gorgeous bit of work and as the English have done much
libelling in their time they can hardly object to an
Italian author slightly misrepresenting the Terror of the
yT os* l
“ Steff ” : Lecturer Charles Clark did not do quite so
well in M.L. this time as formerly. In Wellington he ran
a concert with the assistance of vocalists of note. One
Mrs. Howie, is about the most Junoesque contralto alive.’
She makes the stage look like a candle-box, and the piano
like a typewriter. Amongst other little morsels she sang
“Ma Curly-headed Babby” and I devoutly thanked the
great Joss of Earthquakes, that I wasn’t her curly-headed
babby. Anyhow, I enjoyed Rev. Haskett Smith better
than Clark. Haskett started by turning the gas out, and
in this subdued light I fell into a delicious slumber. And
next day I told my friends that it was a beautiful enter-
tainment with such awe-inspiring classic pictures When
Haweis was round this way, he drew poor houses’, and he
used to stand on his longer leg for quite five minutes,
scowling at the empty benches before he started his
lecture. Most of his musical jokes fell as dead as frozen-
mutton, and I am sure the recollections of the Maoriland
audiences hastened the little man’s death.
One prominent, popular, and experienced theatrical
manager here views with exceeding apprehension the
growing interest of American firms in the Australian field
for tragedy, comedy, history,” &c., &c., and thinks
local dramatic enterprise will have sad occasion to regret
the Musgrove-“ ’Murkan ” combine. Practically all the
Australian theatres are available for a scoop, and the
Yank is going in “ big licks ” in this branch of business as
in all others, and invokes a “trust” to dish up drama,
legitimate and bastard ; opera, comic and solemn * bur-
lesque, farce, and the tommy-rot of the varieties to an
omnivorous people. The above prophet foresees the early
day when dramatic art will be dealt out to Australia in
job lots by a “ shmdykit.”
Kalgoorlie has now arrived at such a pitch of culchaw
that it can support a Hannan’s Choral Society, under the
distinguished patronage of His Ex. The Society has
about oO singing members, and its concerts at the Miners’
Institute are highly elevating. Carriages at 10.15 pm
and doors kept closed (with a capital C) during the per-
formance of each number. 1
George R. Ashton, formerly of The Bulletin, seems to
have been going very strong in London with his lightning-
sketches of warlike subjects. Always a man of “presence”
on a platform, G.R.A., who did some fighting in S’Afriea
during the Zulu war, takes the stage in khaki suit *
and helniet-and looks the part. At the Alhambra one
night he fetched the audience to their feet by writing
under a sketch of Gen. Buller—“ Give Buller a chance.
Coming on top of Roberts’s unpopular note of censure
sentiment scored a howling success. _ .
There is no back to the Alexandra circls, and it will be
a tough matter to dispose of stray journalists on nrs»
nights. Notice-writers as a rule are content to take
observations, hanging over the balustrade, convenient to
the door—and the bar —but at the Aleck “ standing room
does not exist unless at the last moment Williamson naa
devised a special kopje for the army of reviewers.
Bamum prided himself on being the only showmanwho
had ever exhibited a live king to his patrons, "'ben
Kamehameha 11., of the Sandwich Islands, visited hew
York some 15 years ago, Barnum invited him to lus cir-
cus, and advertised that he would be on view. At the
close of the regular performance the manager put ms
Majesty into an open carriage, and drove him round the
ring. The coffee-colored potentate, who spoke good Eng-
lish, objected at first to being thus utilised, but even-
tually acquiesced, with the remark, “We are all actors,
Mr. Barnum.”
Music, a philosopher once observed, is the most expen-
sive noise in the world. The potentates who pay Melba
£l5O a night to sing at their “ at homes ” in London must
think so, too.
Jefferson made his first success as a star actor in Aus-
tralia. His former essay in this line at ’Frisco was a
failure. It is apparent from the comedian’s well-wntten
autobiography that he still retains a warm corner in his
heart for the Australians, whose appreciation set him on
the high road to success. After he had captured Australia
and London his countrymen received him with open
arms.
The success of Australian actresses in London is no new
..thing. Mrs. Chas. Young, who married Mr. Herman
Vezin, and Julia Matthews did well in the old country in
the early sixties. Miss Cleveland, though of English
training, established her reputation in Australia, and
after the death of her first husband, Vincent, she wedded
a leading English actor.
G. V. Brooke, who went down in the ill-fated s.s. Lon-
don in the Bay of Biscay, always had a horror of being
drowned at sea. Among the papers left behind in Eng-
land was a poem of some 70 lines on the gruesome subject,
written by himself. lie behaved heroically during the
disaster.
On Sims Reeves was lately bestowed a British Civil List
pension of £lOO a year. According to all accounts, he
sadly wanted it. Yet for many years he made £30,000 a
year by singing.
Concerning Nigger King, a Bulletin cor-
respondent writes :
“Professor" William King, the notorious nigger con-
vict, was released from Pentridge a month ago, and is
now back in gaol awaiting trial on two charges of auda-
cious burglary and one of attempted rape. King, 10
years ago, was only a tenth-rate pug., but on his dis-
charge he threw out challenges to all the top-notchers,
and was billed to fight Fred Preston on Saturday night.
The d’s, however, put him in on Tuesday night, and,
according to indications, the fight with Preston won’t
come off for at least 10 years yet. Chiefly owing to
well-written and pathetic letters' of ill-treatment which
were smuggled out of gaol, Marshall Lyle and others
persistently agitated for King’s release-for the past
six years of his incarceration were due to alleged miscon-
duct in gaol. The penal authorities having once declined
to interfere with the sentence, would not back-down;
but, on the recent change of Government, King was re-
leased on a special order, as a way out of a dilficult situa-
tion. King’s latest crimes show him to be a man who
should never be at liberty again. lie is obviously a
criminal lunatic of the most dangerous type, and the
question as to whether his character was not developed
by the yearn of solitary confinement he underwent, will
have yet to be answered. King’s letters from gaol
eternally reiterated the fact that lie was an American
citizen. He is lucky not to be in the Southern States
with the present charges against him.
The American rolled gold jewellery that
Mick Simmons is offering to the Australian public
is a revelation in prices and beauty. The hand-
some alborts, sleeve-links, collar-studs, ladies’
bangles, necklets, rings, pins, &c., &c., wear equal
to best gold and are guaranteed for five years.
Their cost is within easy reach of everybody.
Mick Simmons is making a speciality of clocks
and watches, too, at a price that beats everything
in the southern hemisphere ; and he has a stock of
fancy goods, ladies’ purses, bags, photo, frames,
dolls, toys, haberdashery and stationery, that is
attracting the public from near and far and boom-
ing business even in these dull times.*
Concerning last Saturday’s S.A. Legisla-
tive Council elections: —
S.A. Leg. Council elections practically settled for some
time that the Fat Man majority in S.A. Upper House is to
be maintained. At present (apart from the result of the
election) in a Chamber of 24, the Tories have a solid
majority of three (not counting President Baker) and that
majority has succeeded in blocking Liberal measures for
the last five years. Awhile ago the S.A. Tories
used to spend their money in trying to control the local
Assembly, but the attempt was unsuccessful and expen-
sive, and it was soon found that progressive legislation
could be blocked far more easily by maintaining a majority
in the Council. The National' Ass., therefore, never
worries about the Assembly now, but spends its cash over
the periodical Council elections, and so far, it must be
admitted, with great success. The heavy property fran-
chise (£25) shuts out the great majority of metropolitan
voters, and the provincial electors, being mainly Conser-
vative, favor Tory nominees. Kingston, when' Premier,
long since recognised that the only way to break up the
Council Ass. majority was by liberalising the franchise,
hence his Household Suffrage proposals, and he spent the
last three years of his Ministerial life in trying to get
such a measure through. His Bill was twice carried in
S.A. Assembly, by large majorities, only to be entombed
in the Council. The latter body even rejected the Holder
Govt.’s compromise of a £l5 franchise. This election had
long been looked forward to by the Progressives as pro-
viding an opportunity of at least reducing the Tory
majority. When Kingston resigned his Assembly
seat and announced his candidature for the Coun-
cil on the test question of suffrage reform, select-
ing J. L. Stirling, the Tory leader, for his opponent,
it was expected that the battle all over S.A. would be
furious, but the absence of the Democratic leader in Eng-
land made all the difference, as he has been beaten “ out
of a place,” Stirling and Gordon securing the coveted
seats, while the National Ass nominees, Lucas and
Pascoe, beat the Govt, candidates, Moody and Russell,
nearly two to one. For the Central Division, though
Yardon (Opposition) headed the poll, Labor candidate
Kirkpatrick won the second seat by a small majority over
Parsons, the other Opposition candidate, who, in turn,
just “pipped” Robinson (Labor). For the Northern
Division, Bice (Ministerial) and Duncan (Opposition) were
uccessful The result of the contest thus still leaves as
small Tory majority in S.A. Leg. Council.


t
/
ZETZsprwg
TOE
9)n is
tfobaecc#
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
KAVY AND WAR OFFICE.-
PACKED IN 4, 2 &. 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Arm ft, Co„ Ltd.. Liverpool. Agents
“ THE FINEST -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD. 1 '
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bueno Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• • * *
The Great Boulder Co., Kalgoorlie, have just
placed an order with the Austral Otis Engineering Co.,
Ltd., South Melbourne, to build a pair of compound con-
densing engines of 700 h.p. to drive their extensive mil-
ling plant. These engines will be of the latest type, with
Proell valve gear, The flywheel is 20ft. in diameter,
grooved for 16 ropes, and weighs upwards of 22 tons. The
total weight of engine will be 85 tons. The engines are to
be completed by the end of the year and will be the finest
and largest plant on the field. Three engines under con-
struction at the Otis Works for the Kalgoorlie goldfields
have an aggregate of 1800 horse power.*
* * * *
Insurance Opinion, July, 1899: “Not only
does the vigorous and enterprising Colonial Mutual
Society increase rapidly in point of magnitude, but it also
exhibits all the features that are characteristic of a pru-
dently-managed life office.*
• * • *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, Mining Machinery
Merchants, 606 Little Oollins-street, Melbourne, report
that the Luhrig system of concentration is gradually es-
tablishing itself in the principal mills of Australia. The
latest Luhrig vanner has a large capacity, and owing to
important improvements the life of the belt, Ac., is greatly
increased. Vanners and spare parts are stocked in Melb.
and prompt delivery is thus assured. A small testing
plant is available hear Melbourne. Upon receipt of
necessary data, estimates for complete plants, including
batteries, rolls, trommels, jigs, classifiers, vanners, &c.,
will be proceeded with by competent engineers.*
• * • •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; (d»o
for the Taylor Horsfleld Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &0., &c.*
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
* * * •
Gilfillan and McCreery have removed to more
commodious offices in the Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne. They have enlarged their mining laboratory
and ore-testing works and are prepared to test parcels of
ore to ascertain the most successful and economical
method of treatment.*
• * • »
Dear'BuLLETiN, —In the interests of those who
have labor to sell over on your side, let me draw attention
to the fact that the Chillagoe Railway and Mines Co. is
advertising abroad for miners and other laborers, notwith-
standing that there are enough men available on the field
to supply the mines twice over. It is pitiful to see men
arriving here every day without a shilling in their pockets
and no work to be got. There is no wage-work here—all
contract, and that under most unfavorable conditions.
Also, considering the prices you have to pay for every-
thing here and the way you have to rough it, 7s. 6d. in
Victoria or N.S.W. is as good as 12s. here.—A Miner, Mun-
gana (Q.). , # .
S. Aus. Govt, is getting the plans for its smelt-
ing works prepared in Sydney. The works are to go up
at Pt. Augusta, mainly to serve the far northern copper
shows.
¥ * * *
A Melb. co., owning the Coppertop, in far-North
S. Aus., is well-enough satisfied with nearly 12 months’
development-work to proceed with furnace - building.
Railway works are also in hand.
* * * *
A M.L. news correspondent writes that dredging
cos. of small capital and yielding small returns are invari-
ably the best-paying of the dredging specs. He instances :
The Inch Valley, capital £5OOO, present price £2 Bs. ;
average return for 42 weeks to Dec., ’99, 15oz. ; div. paid,
4s. : and since beginning of year returns increasing.
Lawrence, capital £l5OO ; started since beginning ol
present year ; shares, £3 : div. paid, 3s. Charlton Creek,
capital £5OOO ; average return for four weeks ending
March 31, 1900, 15oz. sdwt. 22gr. ; price, £1 7s. Evans
Flat, capital £2BOO ; started July, ’9B ; paid to date, 12s
in dividends; price, £ll2s. ; March average, nearly 13oz.
—All these cos. are in £1 shares.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36 33%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
93/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 817.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-gt Adel.; 21 Kayle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NX.;
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland. „
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
What marvellous strides copper-production has
made ! The total world’s yield for the first decade of this
century was 91,000 tons ; basing the estimate for 1900 on
last year’s figures, the output in the last decade will be
8,613,000 tons. That is, as much is won in nine days now
as was won in a whole year at the beginning of the cen-
tury. In each of two decades the production has almost
doubled itself. The increase in this present decade has
been just normal; in its predecessor it was more than
that. In prices there have been remarkable variations—
from an average of £6O in the first decade to £l3O in the
second ; down as low as £BB in the fifth, and then up to
£lll in the Crimean period. But from that point (’sl—
there has been a steady fall this way:—£lll, £B7,
£79, £6O, £52. In that time production has gone up from
505,999 tons to 3,643,000. From all of which it is arguable
that we need not get so desperately fearful of a mighty
crash in the market on the opening up of enough mines
in this country to add (say) 5 per cent, to the world’s out-
put. And we have not reached anything like that figure
yet. Australasia’s whole contribution, in fact, has
amounted to 4£ per cent, of the total in the current ten-
year period.
And there is more consolation. Copper-mines
are not, it seems from the century’s experience, long-
lived. Most of them go off in 25 years or so, and thus
new discoveries are constantly called for. For instance,
the English mines have yielded 5000 tons in the past ten
years; yet between ’5l and ’6O they turned out 142,000
tons. Now, if other countries were making copper dis-
coveries at the rate Australasia has been doing the out-
look for prices would be bad. But, though we only give
4J per cent, of the world’s supply, we produced in ’99
2750 tons more than in ’9B, and that is 7 per cent, of the
total increase.
It is now quite evident that the Amalgamated
Copper 00., which controls the American group of copper
co’s. (Amerioan production is 12 times greater than
Australasian), is not after rocket business. The “ com-
bine” is backed by Standard Oil 00., and apparently the
same end is to be sought as that huge concern has kept
after —the maintenance of permanently remunerative
prices, with no attempt at manipulation for speculative
purposes. Which means that it has come to stay.
Mt. Lyell records to 31st March last : —Number
of tons of ore treated, 610,659; average assay-value-
copper 3'52 per cent, silver 3’470z., gold 0'1270z. Pro-
ducts : copper, 20,353 tons; silver, 1,968,6170 z. ; gold,
79,9470 z.
The directors of Mt. Lyell Co., in their half-
yearly report, state that “ the copper market has again
been’characterised by high prices, and from all sources
the evidence points to a maintenance of the present satis-
factory position.” On such authority this ought to be
cheering information for owners of copper mines generally.
The new arrangement for the sale of the Mt.
Lyell product is stated by the directors to be that the
Baltimore 00. simplv receives a fixed payment per ton of
blister copper for the separation of the metals contained
and returns to the co. the entire contents in refined
copper and silver, which are sold through a leading N.Y.
house. The gold is also returned in full and is sold to the
U.S. Mint at its full value. The contract, which is des-
cribed as a verv advantageous one for the co. compared
with the old ‘arrangement, is for three years. It cer-
tainly seems to be a common-sense commercial arrange-
ment. The refining co. get definite payment for specific
work. Still the refiners must make a good profit, and it
may be asked why does not the Mt. Lyell Co. erect a re-
finery and retain this profit ?
Manager Sticht, of Mt. Lyell, is a man of
extreme caution, and a positive statement from him may
be relied upon. In his half-yearly report, written at the
end of last Sept., he was specially guarded as to the pros-
pects of the mine at a depth—so much so, indeed, that
people not knowing his temperament might have been
excused for assuming that he had serious doubts on the
subject. In his last report, however, there is no sugges-
tion of doubt; he commits himself to the statement that
the developments in No. 6 level give positive proof of the
existence of high-grade ore in the lowest depths of the
bod .V- ,
The cost of producing blister copper at Mt.
Lyell per ton of ore, is £1 35., made up as follows :
Mining, 2s. lid. ; removal of overburden, 2s. ; smelting,
15s. lOd. ; converting, 2s. 2d.
* * * *
Memo, for gentlemen who write Copper Co.
prospectuses and booming reports after the co. s are
floated (the extract is from the annual report of the big
metal firm of Aron Hirsch and Sohn, whose Australian
buvings are now probably bigger than those of any other
firro) it is to be noted that mines containing a very
high percentage of copper very seldom turn out profit-
ably In the best paying mines like Rio Tinto, Mt.
Lvell Lake Mansfield, and others, the ores run only 21
to 5 per cent, copper. ” Interesting, by the way, to compare
Rio Tinto, Europe’s mammoth, with our own Lyell. Its
year’s profits were £1,515,000. Quantity of pyrites treated
was 1,649,844 tons ; the average copper contents, 2-72 per
cent. * * *
Blayney mine maintaining a steady output of
about 25 tons of copper per week from one blast-furnace.
Curing the last month 100 tons have been sold. At the
ruling price of copper there ought to be a large profit on
this output. Another 120-ton furnace to be erected at
once.
Broken Hill Junction shareholders now get
officially the whole truth, which they have had to look
elsewhere for in the past. Fact was that it couldn t be
hidden any longer, even if the new board and new general
manager were inclined to hide it, which they aren t. r or
there has to be a reconstruction ; and shareholders could
not very well be asked to hand over ss. a share without
bein" told why. To say that past management was
execrable is to say nothing fresh here ; what ought in
fairness to be said is that the manager (who, as usual, has
been the sacrificial goat) was not wholly to blame—he had
to mismanage in order to meet the demand for diva, quick
and lively. The co.’s profit for the half-year was £725 ;
at any rate, the directors say so, but as they do not seam to
have made any deduction for wear and tear the true profit
was half of nothing. Worse, instead of gettingbetter things
are going the other way. The average of the ore handled
has been 14'4 per cent, lead, lOoz. silver, and 10'5 per
cent, zinc; but taking the ore for the last eight weeks
only, the average was 13‘4 per cent, lead, 10'6oz. silver,
and 9 7 per cent zinc. The manager declares he cannot
do economical work unless he has close upon £15,000 to
jpend in straightening up old workings, extending new
ones, and providing plant for re-treating portion of the
present product. The directors will therefore try and
raise this money by offering for each present share
another one at ss. ; the remaining £lO,OOO (there are
100,000 shares now) will be used to wipe off the long-
standing debt to the bank. It is a humiliating position
for a co. which only lately was paying £60,000 a year, but
it has to be faced, and the board’s proposals seem as good
as any.
• * * *
Young gen.-manager M6ulden, whose report on
the B.H. Junction is one of the most exhaustive put before
Broken Hill shareholders for years, goes to some trouble
to show why the present ore-dressing plants fail to save
so much of the metal. (The Junction’s own extraction
amounts to 52 per cent, of the lead and 30.7 per cent, of
the silver—that is, nearly one-half of the lead and more
than two-thirds of the silver go to waste.) Large quan-
tities of the ore consist of garnet sandstone, with fine par-
ticles of lead disseminated through it, and often the actual
grains of garnet are coated with lead as fine as gold-leaf.
The useless garnet is heavy, and the lead is impalpably
fine ; so between the two the losses are very great—a
flow of water sufficient to carry away the garnet from the
heavier particles of silver and lead carries away also all
the fine silver and lead.
• • • •
In view of the constant complaints that mine
contracts at Broken Hill have been so cut that fair wages
can no longer be made, it is interesting to note that the
manager of the Junction asserts that the average wage of
the miner on contract has been 10s. 3Jd. a shift. But a
liberal deduction must be made, anyhow, on account of
lost time between contracts. Also, in the Junction, on
account of the extremely treacherous nature of the
ground, the worst places are filled by wages men only.
* » » *
After the cables have told us all about the divs.
there is not much left in the best of reports to get exeited
about. This is one reason why the British B.H. accounts
for the half-year, made up to Dec. 31, hardly keep one
awake. Summing up the whole year’s profits, the figures
are £72,088, of which £45,000 went in divs., 110,000 to a
reserve fund (this is the beginning of the fund), and the
balance forward. This was after writing down smelting
and other plant rather severely. The directors own up
that the big lead prices have worked this remarkable
change in the co.’s position ; but they also show that the
cost of breaking ore has been brought down from 11s. Bjd.
per ton, the average of the previous two years, to 9s. 10d.,
while milling costs have been reduced to 4s. sd. In view
of all of which the directors “ consider that the scale of
remuneration of the board should be raised.” And Tub
Bulletin, having declared a motion to that effect carried,
draws attention to the fact that British mine-contractors
on tlie whole have had a rather bad time, too ; and it
proposes that they, also, be treated with a little-more
liberality.
• • * •
There are three proposals for the purchase of
B.H. South Oo.’s southern blocks. Hal Sheppard, of
Melb., who floated the B.H. North, first offered to float a
c 0.—200,000 shares of £l, 100,000 going to the present co.,
other 100,000 to the public at 3s. 6d. (shareholders, how-
ever, to have a prior right to take half of them. Of tins
3s. 6d. the new co. was to get 2s. 6d. Next offer came
from Adelaide, through A. S. Fotheringbam—same pro-
posal, except that the new co. would have £15,000
instead of £12,500 to go on with on account of the shares
being issued at 45., Is. of which would be taken by the
syndicate. Sheppard made another bid then —same pro-
posal, except that the shares would be issued at 55., of
which 3s. 6d. (total £17,500) would go to the new co.
Proxies are being vigorously whipped in for the meeting
early in June, and at present it looks as though the
Fotheringham crowd will win. As a side-show, there is a
proposal to add a sixth director on purpose to make room
for another Adelaide man. And inasmuch as only two or
three months ago the co., on the invitation of the
dominant section of the board, reduced the number of
directors, and thus kept out a Broken Hill and Melbourne
nominee who promised to make trouble, writer is forced
to the conclusion that you have to get up early if you
want to have breakfast with the South people.
* * * *
Somebody asks for The Bulletin’s candid
opinion of the Hercules (Mt. Reid) show, seeing that the
price has dropped from 425. to 15s. within the last two
years. Well, the Hercules appears to have heaps of rich
ore with a distressing proportion of zinc. Given a cure
for the zinc trouble, there would be great hopes of the
Eatient doing well. The Sulphide Reduction 00. of
ondon is erecting a plant at Mt. Reid, and, if these
operations prove a success, the Hercules ought to make a
move in due course.
“W. J.C. ” : The North Mt. Lyell Co. recently
bought the King Conrad Silver mine (N.S.W.) from
Messrs. P. Alliwell, J. E. Palmer (Boggy Camp’s big
diamond man) and George Grove, for £60,000 —£10,000
cash and 50,000 paid-up shares. This mine adjoins the
Conrad, belonging to John Howell, who, by the way, has
commenced to build smelters. Bora Creek is pronounced
by Father Curran, the geologist, to be, as a silver-field,
far ahead of anything in Australia so far, except Broken
Hill.
• • * •
Baker’s Creek mine, Hillgrove, is “sick” and
may be expected to be worse before it’s better. Battery
ahead of mine ; by and bye the bank may be ahead of the
battery if present indifference to working-cost is per-
mitted by shareholders. In one item alone a possible
clear saving of £6OO a year is absolutely ignored. How-
ever, the present holding of the Adelaide board won’t dis-
turb their sleep o’ nights.
* * * •
A miner writing from the Peak Hill mine
(W.A.) says that it is a “ better property than the Peak
Hill mine N.S.W.” Seeing that its market value is pounds
as compared with pence for the N.S.W. mine, it ought to
be. But it is doubtful whether the statement is correct.
Should Mr. Taylor make a success of the smelting process
recently started at Peak Hill (N.S.W.), the mine will not
be one to be despised. Reported that the matte from the
first run was worth £3O per ton, which did not accord
with ore assay values, there being an unaccountable dis-
crepancy between the assays and recovery in copper.
* * * *
Stated Mount David in two months will have
that much-talked-of “ Monkey Winze ” run of gold on tap.
To be hoped the supply will suffice to slacken the thirst of
shareholders, who’ve had a dry time of late.
The N.S.W. Govt, metallurgical works at Clyde
have been closed. They never served any useful purpose,
for the simple reason that the plant made that impossible.
The huge tin building at Clyde will remain a monument
to the folly of the bucolic Sydney Smith. By the way,
what has become of him ? Reid promised him the billet
of commercial agent in London, but Reid's political bosses
—the Labor-party—told him straight-out that they would
not tolerate such an appointment. Shall we hear of him
next as the Hon. Sydney Smith, M.L.C. ?
• • * •
Three or four of the members of the best-known
far west N.S.W. squatting families gave the fight with
rabbits and drought best a few years back and went to Wes-
tralia. After some battling they got the Waverley ; they
have already dollied out several thousand ounces from
rich shoots, and now have 2000 tons of medium- grade
stuff at grass and 5000 tons ready to send up.
“ Kitten ” asks what has become of the “ Yamble
(N.S.W.) Gold and Diamond Dredging Co.” ? When the
glowing prospectus appeared, I applied for 200 shares.
Have not seen it advertised since. My shares have not
been yet allotted, and enquiries result in the information,
that “ it may be floated.” I think five (5) months rather
long for such meagre information.
• ■» * *
The N.S.W. colliery proprietors have decided
to advance the price of coal Is. per ton and the hewing-
rate 4d., thus probably averting a general miners’ strike.
* » • «
A trial working of the Cocks Pioneer Co.’s
electric sluicing plant was given in Melbourne, last week,
before an interested audience. The plant—the first of
its kind built in Victoria —consists of two vertical engines
(250 h.p.) with a 500 h.p. generator and four motors.
Unity (Bendigo), after 23 years of calls, re-
appears in the div.-list. The profit is being earned from
sdwt. “dirt.” The Unity was the famous Bell and Wat-
son’s claim which started the unexampled boom of 1870.
» * • *
Dear Bulletin.—Strange that several of the
Melb. banks can give a higher price for gold than the
local Mint! A party of eight miners working a reef at War-
randyte (Vic.) took their gold to the Mint for three
months, receiving £4 per oz. Then someone laid them
on, and they have since been getting £4 Is. 6d. to £4 3s.
from the Bank of N.S.W., which pays cash up to within
£1 of the value and sends the balance a week later. As
none of the party has an account, the institution’s profit
must come out of the gold. So what about the Mint’s
£4 ?—F.O.
• • * *
Long Tunnel, the record dividend-mine of Vic-
toria, seems likely to maintain its premier position, rich
stone having been met with in the deepest level.
* * » •
Victorian mines department has agreed to spend
£4OO0 —as a national undertaking—on proving the Elles-
mere goldfield, near Bendigo, at a depth. When will the
N.S.W. department adopt the same sensible principle in
place of the wovse than absurd policy of maintaining a lot
of tucker-earners sinking grave-holes in localities where
there is not the remotest chance of mineral or metal being
found in payable quantity?
* • ♦ *
From Westralia : Mt. Margaret district forges
ahead. It is now easily second to Kalgoorlie. April
figures: Kalgoorlie 61,7090 z., Margaret 73400 z., Cool-
ganlie 70020 z. Then Broad Arrow, Kanowna, and Norse-
man. The co. registered in London to take over the
works of the Western Australian Smelting Co. is the Fre-
mantle Smelting Works, Ltd. Capital £200,000 in £1
shares. Kaufman, Rose, and other big Boulder men form
the board. The local Govt.’s substantial reduction of
freight on rich ore will help these works a lot. Formerly
ore assaying over 2oz. was charged lid. per ton per mile ;
now anything up to lOoz. goes for id. Which is as good
as any t’otherside railway dept. does. The reduction
follows the tardy recognition of the fact that big assay
values don’t always mean high net profits ; all depends on
how easily the metal is got out. Others besides railway
managers would gain by recognising that. A few mining
co.’s also gain by the freight reduction —Hannan’s Oroya,
for instance. It had got a good pile of ore at grass. And
the Oroya needs a lift. Its returns for this year show
a diminishing average month by month —lOdwt. 12gr.
in Jan. to sdwt. 17gr. in April. Bellevue Consolidated,
which Metallurgist Kohler is getting straight, has made its
final call ; this, like several other far-out mines which are
waiting for machinery, is stuck-up owing to the recent
unaccustomed floods. Meantime, reckoning on a probable
outbreak of hysterics and untying of money-bags in
London when the war ends, the correct thing is to get a
six or nine months’ option over every decent-looking
show which remains open. Scores are already held that
wa y-
Westralian co’s. go on reconstructing ; but, as
in the case of Burbanks recently, the common crowd of
shareholders show a strong disposition to see that the
directors take their bundle of new scrip at full prices.
Burbanks, which is a low-grade proposition, and, of
course, “ on the improve,” wants £15,000, and will get it
—and deserves to more than most. Block 45 also wants
another £22,000, or so. The co. has been dipping freely
into a fair-sized capital lately, spending largely on plant
as well as about t'6oo a month on development. It is a
case of buck-up-or-forfeit, with the prospects none too
rosy in the end. ...
Three or four recent isolated attempts to cut
wages on Westralian fields, joined to the common belief
(since supported by the experts’ report on the Associated)
that an influential London crowd would gladly see a re-
duction, brought out a rather imposing crowd at Boulder’s
first Eight-Hour procession. As usual, the engine-drivers
made a fine show ; and, as usual, the miners didn’t.
About the most serious of the labor troubles is at the
Paddington Consols; surfacemen, truckers, bracemen,
battery-feeders, and some others were notified of a cut to
10s a shift. A poor attempt to fill the places with miners
failed, and the works were shut down. Much the same
happened at Fraser’s S. Extended. The truckers were
asked to take 9s. instead of 10s. ; they declined, the miners
refused to do their own trucking, and fires were banked.
• * * *
A claim to be more heard of than hitherto —
North Star, at progressive Mt. Malcolm, which has just
got a 20-head battery going, and where reef prospects are
bright. * , * ♦
After expanding £22,000 on more or less develop-
ment Bayley’s Consols asks and gets six months’ suspen-
sion while it chases after £2OOO more “for deeper
exploration.” , * •
The Perth Mint ran a close race with the one at
Melb. last month. Totals of local gold received—Melb.,
39,7720 z.; Perth, 35,6460 z. These Vic. figures are the
lowest for three years. Still, just upon two-thirds of
Westralian gold is'exported in bullion.
* • » *
Davies Karri and Jarrah shareholders met in
London lately to hear the old story of over-production
and ruinous competition. Yet the co. had made a small
profit—£soo2 for one year. It was just enough for pre-
ference shareholders to go on with ; an outlay for mill-
extensions and railways was passed on. to be covered by
debentures lately issued. “Karri” Davies, who has
been covering himself with gore and glory in S’africa, got
a cheer ; but there seemed to be more body in the cheer
that the old man got when it was announced that he and
his family, instead of selling, had added £20,000 to their
holding in the co. during the year. Some people think
that it is “Karri” Davies’ business in S’Africa to be
arrested by Kruger, and imprisoned and released, and im-
prisoned again ; others, that it is to wear a major’s kharki
and say, “ Up, boys, and at ’em ! ” But they are wrong.
His business is to insist that no timber is quite the
best unless the name of Davies is upon it; and the man-
sticking is his playful way of recreation—or of pushing
business. Anyhow, the directors say they are hopeful
that, with the gallant major to keep the name in front,
the co.’s business will presently boom in S’Africa. The
Bulletin suggests that the board forms a syndicate to
pray hourly that Kruger may blow up the mines and so
provoke the necessity to re-open and re-timber them.
Q. mining notes. Another new find in the
bowels of Charters Towers. Rich reef in New Queen’s
gives a much-needed lift to two dolorous mines (Papuans
and Queen’s Cross). New opal field discovered
near Charleville, W.Q. From directors’ report of
Hampden (Cloncurry) copper mines : “ It is anticipated
that within the next six months the necessary powers will
be granted by Q. Parliament for the railway from Nor-
manton to Cloncurry.” 260 miles ; a fair mouthful for
any syndicate—shares mostly held by Melbourmtes.
Scottish Gympie G.M., one of the eyes.of Gympm is turn,
ing cut good stuff as per latest crushing. 3.1 . -ons fo r
2,1660z5. Shares practically held by people whose names
begin with Mac.
* • *
Croydon (Q.) notes, under date sth May : Croy-
don April yield—Quartz, 3655 A tons; 50150 z. ; average
value, £2 16s. per oz. Cyanide operations—lolB tons,
9970 z. of bullion. April divs., £BB7B ; calls, £346. Want
of water already seriously affecting output. Golden Gate
3 and 4 South Tribute, for April, 525 tons, 23670 z., value
£6250. Out of this, the tributors paid £l2OO as royalty to
Cashman s Proprietary Syndicate); owners of mine divided
£3200 and carried forward £250. Tribute has about five
months to run, and a one-sixteenth share lately changed
hands at £550. Plant’s (C. Towers co.) shaft down 140 ft.
on a mission to test the deep ground on Golden Gate.
United and Ninety-Eight Block nearing 400 ft., the esti-
mated depth to cut reef. Golden Gate 4 and 5 Block
(Ninety-Eight) recently made a call while a crushing was
being treated, then declared a 4d. div., thus giving the
paid-up men 4d. and contributing shareholders 3d. Now
thinking of hanging up mine. It is just ill-judged things
as this that injure a field with outside investors. And
there is a bank-manager on the directorate, too. Work
recommenced in Golden Gate United shaft, hitherto work-
ing on a barren reef. Diamond drill now going down to
seek for lost Iguana reef and test Rand’s theory of an in-
trusive granite bar. Rogers’ Golden Gate looking well,
and continuing to crush for improving results. Croydon
Goldfields (True Blue) still prospecting with promising
prospects. Ditto (No. 10 North Golden Gate) crushing for
payable returns.


OVERCOATS FOR THE WINTER SEASON
PALMERSTON OVERCOATS—
-42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
W. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Vicuna, Satin Facings and Forc-narts.
63s
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
Single-Breasted.
BLUE AND FAWN BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
BLUE AND FAWN MELTON CLOTH,
52s 6d
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d
42s
CLERICAL BLACK WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in TWEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s 6d
D.B. BLUE NAP, 50s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS,
with DEEP CAPE,
ancy Scotch Tweeds, 30s, 355, 50s, 55s
New
Smart
Shapes
PADDOCK COATS-
-56 to 58 inches in Length.
FAWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 58s 6rl, 65s
FAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVERT
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 54 to 56 inches in
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d.
COVERT COATS-
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 6d
Fawn Beaver, 45s
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES—
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth Facings, 40s
Black Vicuna, with Satin Facings, 47s 6d, 63s
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONES &
Orient Clothiers, George & Barrack
COMPANY,
Streets, SYDNEY.
HA HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for n ..
Catalogue to B. MountGastSe & Sons,
Queen Stkeet, BRISBANE.
Society
The red-white-and-blue emblem which was,
on Saturday last, donned in Sydney in honor of
the relief of Mafeking, was in at least half the
instances worn with the red uppermost; and it
was sereechingly funny to see so many Jingoes
stalking proudly around in blissful unconsciousness
that tliey had thus decorated themselves with the
Dutch flag.
* * * *
A British soldier, writing home from S’af-
rica: “One of our niggers who was a waiter at
the Crown Hotel, Bloemfontein, says that he was
so insulted by the Boers that he hopes we will kill
every one of them.” Reminds Bulletin of certain
advice of Dumas plre’s to his son: “Alexandre,
never insult the gargon ; if you do he will spit in
your soup. ”
• * * •
Private letters from Capetown state that
the first Australian Bushmen’s Corps, per steamer
Atlantian, arrived there in a totally disorganised
state, and almost mutinous. “During the 24
hours the vessel lay alongside no fewer than 40 de-
serted, in spite of a heavy sentry on board with
fixed bayonets. In two cases, the men slipped
over the opposite side, and swam ashore, under
cover of darkness.”
OL'RIGHT
HIM : “ Tie heard people say we are engaged."
HER : Oh, that’s all right; I've never heard any-
body say they believed it.”
and a score of others, but nobody mentioned the
man who has really done the most marvellous deed
?he remSe° vblnif The defence of
nnmnLT 6 village of railway workshops and
ft is hv° !n l< ™r y 18 n ° < ° ( ubt a ,f reat / eat > but
■pi ■' n v ° means so great as that of Colonel
PWr, who came down from Rhodesia to relieve
armored trStbat iuld'not'S remvedYrtmtil
railway, still tenaciously hung on to the Boers'
flank for nearly two months, harassing them con-
tinually, and preventing them using their whole
force against the hard-pressed garrison. Baden-
Powell fought behind fortifications. Plumer
fought behind only what cover the ground
afforded, and actually attacked the investing
force. When the story of this war comes to be
written, much of whatever glory is in it will circle
around the tough, dried-up, wizen-faced man from
Buluwayo.
* * * *
Despite all the murmurings, sons of Q.
Premier Philp and ex-Speaker Cowley are going
as Lieutenants with the last Q. Contingent.
• * • *
Not hitherto published but absolutely
true that Lord Roberts caught some of the Q.
Contingent performing what he called “barefaced
loot ” near Bloemfontein, and threatened that a
repetition would mean to the extreme rear for the
remainder of the war.
* * * *
It is all over with the war-correspondent.
Clerks will do next time.
* * * *
Whilst proceeding to volunteer Easter
review at Wangaratta (Vic.), owing to an over-
sight the Melb. Scottish Corps was prevented
from entraining at Spencer-street Station, Melb.,
until somebody put up a cheque to cover the
amount of their fares. Bulletin is now asked by
a correspondent if the cheque referred to was ever
presented—and how the transaction ended.
* • m m
An R.C. chaplain for the Australian naval
station is a probable outcome of a recent recrimin-
atory debate in the Commons. The British Govt,
makes provision for Protestant chaplains in the
navy, but none for R.C. chaplains. Cardinal
Logue threatened in retaliation to instruct Irish
Bishops to warn the young men of their flock
against joining the navy. The Admiralty
threatened in return that if he did so ships of war
would be withdrawn from the Irish coasts. Latest
reports, however, indicate that the Admiralty will
consent to send one R.C. chaplain to each squad-
ron stationed in various ports—among the ports
named being Sydney.
* » * •
The present inspecting-superintendent of
Melb. police insists that the Eoorce should always
wear white helmets during Sum.
mer months.
Easter Mon-
day comes
within the
Summer radi-
us seemingly ;
so last E.M.,
when the
stormy wind
did blow and
the rain fell in
lumps, 200 wet
“coppers”
fined up at
Russell - street
barracks in
overcoats,
glazed oilskins
and white hel-
mots. They had been told-
off foi duty at sports,
which were actually post-
poned on account of the
awful weather. This Sum-
mer head-gear regulation is a
rather expensive joke for the
men. They have to provide
their own crown of purity (Bs.
each), and after a couple of
soakings the unseasonable ar-
ticle gets too limp for further
inspection.
“ The narrowest escape I ever
had,” said an inveterate cyclist the
other day, “was near the top of
Bourke’s Hill, the scene of many
a nasty accident. I was returning
from Gisborne with a lady friend,
and as we dismounted for the
steep descent, quite out of breath,
she lurched against me as if in
mock exhaustion, face flushed, eyes
bright, and lips inviting— all very
tempting. I was just about to take
her in my arms when a sense of caution beyond
ray years deterred me. Later knowledge 1 of the
lady has convinced me that it was one of the nar-
rowest escapes a cyclist ever had.”
* * • *
The petty-spirited “ Council of Churches ”
sends a characteristic whine to Melb. Hospital com
mittee anent the recent Hospital Art Union. The
Council repeats the holy old tarradiddle about the
amount it subscribes to the Institution—meaning
the Hospital Sunday collection, which would be
just as big if professional religionism were utterly
blotted out, and complains bitterly that visitors to
the bazaar were compelled to take their chance in
the gamble whether they wished to or not. The
Hospital committee sensibly declined to give the
Council the advt. it wanted and received the letter
without discussion. By the way, the Grandiose
title “ the Council of Churches ” is a very clums /
attempt to deceive, for neither the Anglicans nor
the R.C.’s, who compose together two-thirds of the
community, are represented on it.
CONCEIT.
SHE : “ You needn't think all the girls want to
marry you!"
HE : “ They couldn't really expect to, could
they?”
Dear Bulletin.— Your par of 6th May
says that the very latest Adelaide Hospital diffi-
culty was caused by Dr. Ramsay Smith’s appoint-
ment to the Hospital staff against the Hospital
Board’s wishes. Now, when S.A. Govt, proposed
to transfer I )r. Smith from the Hospital to the
Public Health Dept., the transfer was agreed to
by the Hospital Board on the understanding that
lie would continue his connection with the Hos-
pital in an honorary capacity. That he would be
appointed was perfectly well-known to those who
were acting on behalf of the outside staff. So the
situation at the present moment is distinctly
peculiar.—S.A. Medico.
* » * ■
In a school on the N.S.W. Northern
line one teacher has charge of about ?0
children of all sizes, ages, and colors,
and recently the mother
of one of the scholars
(a big, buxom
las?) called and
LIMITATIONS OF HUMANITY.
Voice from, Intending Passenger: “Any room
inside!"
Chorus from ’bus: “ Yes—if we all get out! ”
asked the teacher (a bashful, blushful young
man): “Do yer think, Mr. , you could teach
my daughter sewin’ ? ”
* * * *
N.S.W. Full Court more or less promises
to reinstrte ex-solicitor Meagher on its rolls when
the Dean case has been forgotten. In one sense
the Dean case will never be forgotten : it is an
almost immortal story. But practically, it is for-
gotten now ; not one person out of a hundred who
was in Sydney at the time and read the reports of
the trial could give you a correct broad summary
of the details without referring to the papers of
the day. The Bulletin makes bold to say that
even the Supreme Court Judges themselves would
make many mistakes in the matter if they relied
purely on memory.
ear * n Mger’s application drew a
packed house to Court. Mr. O’Connor, Q.C., for
the applicant, put his case calmly and well—based
it on ad raisericordiam grounds : a man’s punish-
ment should not be eternal; Meagher had com-
mitted a great fault—Mr. O’Connor called it a
“mistake”—but had suffered terribly for it, and
had so comported himself during his years of exile
from his profession as to win much sympathy, as
evidenced by the influential and widespread manner
in which his petition to the Court was signed.
Justice Owen made copious notes of the points
taken, and the Chief Justice was placid and atten-
tive ; while Justice Stephen appeared somewhat
ill at ease. The Bench conferred in open Court,
and everyone seemed to understand that Justice
Stephen was holding out and their other Honors
were arguing with him. In a little _ while
unanimity was arranged. The Chief, speaking for
the Court, refused the application on the ground
only that it was “ premature.” Then he gave the
applicant this measure of encouragement, that if
he appealed to the Court “in a few years—a very
few years,” he might not appeal unsuccessfully.
Which must have lifted a load from Meagher’s
mind. In delivering judgment the Chief alluded
to -Meagher no less than six times as “ this gentle-
man.”
* • * •
“Eller”: I know of a large Sydney
boarding-house, all the inmates of which were
sent to quarantine on account of a case of plague
occurring on the premises; but, though the house
has 50 rooms, only that in which the patient had
slept was fumigated. Now, if only one room in
any house is to be thus treated, where’s the sense
in packing off all the inhabitants to quarantine ?
* • • •
Maizo and other cereals are sprouting on
some of the abandoned Sydney plague-wharves—
The fat weed
That rots itself at ease on Lethe’s wharf.
* • » •
A plague “ contact ” from the Sydney
western suburbs required the physical suasion of
five powerful policemen to get him to the Quaran-
tine-station, North Head.
* » • *
A passenger by a recont steamer from
Sydney to Brisl>ane states that dozens of rats died
during the voyage. The officers professed not to
see them, and the passengers, “ who weren’t taking
any quarantine,” quietly threw them overboard as
they demised, and held their peace.
• • * •
An elderly maiden lady residing at Balmain
(Sydney) is just now bewailing the dastruction of
six tame white rats, which were her daily com-
panions, and for which, in her will, she had pro-
vided £2 a week for maintenance and care, in the
event of the creatures outliving her. A near
neighbor had raised a plague-scare about them,
v • • •
The medical officer in charge of the Auck-
land, M.L., plague-hospital is a lady, Dr. Alice
Woodward. When the boy who was bitten by a
rat was isolated as a suspect, the lady volunteered
to take charge of him and any other cases that
came along; and, as the male medicos did not
seem to be burning with ambition to rush into the
breach, the lady was very properly appointed
when the position became lucrative. None but
the brave deserve the loot.
* * • •
In Narrabri (N.S. W.) on one occasion this
year there were 50 cases of typhoid in hospital at
one time. The town drainage is allowed to run
into a creek, the water of which accordingly
causes typhoid in the “campers” who use it.
* * • *
Sydney proposes to hand over its scaveng
ing to good old Private
Enterprise. Brisbane
has tried the game
for years. Now,
when the plague-
scare brings forth
tons of garbage, the
contractor hands in
his resignation-can’t
do the work at the
price, and muddle
supervenes.
* *
“ Ver.” : Can
anyone recommend
an effective insecti-
cide ? I have lost
all confidence in the
best-puffed varieties.
The Sydney flea treats
these compounds as a
huge jest, and I have
a well-grounded sus-
picion that the Nor-
folk Howards roil it into convenient pel-
lets and store it away as winter provender
for their young.
Melbourne’s grand health panjandrum.
Dr. Gresswell, alleges that rats are very fond of
oysters, and that, therefore, humans should have
nothing to do with possibly bubonic “natives.”
Anent which an old fisherman :—“I expects rats
don’t eat hyster-shells ; or if they does bite through
the shell and eats the hyster, they deserves it ; an’
as nobodv can skoff wot a rat’s swaller?d,
nobody’ll be hurt, so far as I sees.” This may not
be science, but it looks very like horse-sense.
* * • *
A “ tip ” from Tennyson (“ Maud,”
part 11., e.v. 6): —
. . . Curse me the British vermin, the rat;
I know not whether he came in the Hanover ship,
But I know that he lies and listens mute.
. . . Arsenic, arsenic, sure, would do it.
* • • •
“ Yang Anyut ” gives certain personal ex-
periences :
lie the matter referred to by “0.P.” and “ Von K.’
(®- WOO and 5/5/’00). I spent lj hour (7.30 to 9) in front
of a Sydney professed oyster-saloon one evening and
counted 42 couples entering. Also interviewed over 30
girls who invited me to “ come in for a few minutes.”
About a score were working-girls earning—so they said—
15s. a week; only two earned more thaD
10s. Some were out of work, many had babies boarding
out, one pleaded guilty to being 26, and several were
under 16. One was 14, by her own telling ; and I remem-
ber her—a child in form then—selling matches in King-
street two years ago. Hideous to relate, at least three
whom I followed passed on their earnings to “ blokes ”
waiting at the corner, and nearly all to whom I made the
offer accepted an invitation to drink, but the maioritv
took “ soft ’’ stuff. One nymph with an aggressive red
feather paid the establishment three visits with three
different friends within an hour. She was the only one
who pleaded guilty to being a “ professional ” and indig-
nantly repudiated the insinuation that she had a “ bloke"”
boastfully showing me her earnings for that evening
The policeman passed the place six times during mv
watch and once “moved me on,” but the girls’ svstlm of
giving warning to each other was so perfect that none of
them were in evidence when he came along. Some of the
so-called wine-shops also deserve a very different name
* * * *
“Death of an Austrian ” is what a M L
paper calls the result of an altercation between an
old man of that nationality and seven <tn •
a, Kakamii. Bat if ;/ had *E
tnans to one Britisher, how rh« kt, , ,
Murder ” headline would have flared out ' ' Bruta *


HARDYBOTKRS
13 Hunter Street) Sydney;
at BRISBANE.
LARGE STOCK OF . . .
. . . MARBLE clocks
Just Arrived.
STRIKING ON RICHLY-TONED GONGS, from 95 -
NON-STRIKING, from 55/-
£3T Illustrations on application.
0 o
([mm.
M
Bracing!
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
Condy’s Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The effect is magical.
bfware of colonial imitations
IN s,st ON buvino -CONDV-S fluid,"
The following "Hine HiHl address should be
at foot of label :
RONDY & MITCHELL. 65, GOSWELI ROAD. LONDON, ENGLAND
The boxes in which Queen Victoria
sent her historic chocolate to T. Atkins
were worth £5 in S. Africa, till a pat-
riotic British firm wishing to fill a
want on the part of the adoring,
flooded the market with an ac-
curate imitation of the tins.
It is also known in Capetown
that an active business is
being done in mementoes of
the Kimberley and Lady-
smith sieges and souvenirs
of Spion Kop in the shape
of shell-fragments, bullets,
broken rifles, and Boer
relics made in Brumma-
gem or thereabouts.
• • i
Private Humphreys
tells how at Grobler’s
Kloof a bullet was stopped
from penetrating his cor-
pus by a box of Her Ma-
jesty’s chocolate. This was
at one time the special
function of the Testament
or Pocket Bible. There’s
always some fetish or other
standing between the or-
dinary man and destruc-
tion.
♦ * I
Melb. Age, dis-
cussing the question
of imorted shep-
pherds for colonial
bishoprics, said
last week : “ The
best men—those
with a belief in
themselves and
their career-
will generally re-
fuse to leave the
locality in wihch
are the biggest prizes,
spiritual as well as
temporal.” Which
suggests that the
Kingdom of Heaven
must be actually in-
corporated with Great
Britain. We knew it.
* * *
Force of habit. At a
recent magisterial inquiry
into the death of a tramp
out N.S.W. West, the
official called his son
as a witness and began:
“Yourname, please?”
No answer. “Come,
sir; what is your
name ? ” Then the
son grinned. “Ah !
yes, of course.” And
lie put his name on
the deposition-sheet.
11l one of S. M. Herald’s recent plague-
chronicles—“ Rather more than WO less rats were
destroyed.” Who’s granny’s Irishman ?
. * • •
Dear Bulletin. What an effective
medium for germ-dissemination is the wrapping of
provisions in old newspapers! Consider the
newspaper—lying on the floor, under the bed,
stowed away m outhouses and musty cupboards,
and then gathered-up and sold to the provision-
dealers to come back round the sausages or the fis
or the bread ! And the Health Board is giv
away disinfectants !—S.O B.
* * * 7
Snell ” : As showing the wisdom of
municipalities buying rats from Tom, Dick, and
Harry, with the object of preventing the spread
of the plague, witness the conduct of a small bo.
in my Melbourne suburb. One recent morning a
friend encountered a youngster with three rats on
a string, and being of an enquiring turn ascertained
that the proud proprietor of .the' rodentsi was
“ talcin’ ’em ”to school. What for . Why,
to sell ’em, o’ course. But not at school.
“ Yes, there’s a feller in our class what gives three
Vpence each for ’em. Then when he gets a lot he
eells ’em for three bob a dozen m another. My
enquiring friend ascertained that the name of the
enterprising youth who posed as wholesale dealer
Moses Moses. That is near enough,
anyhow. * m
The little town of Singleton, N.S.W
which lately buried one man 103 yea,rs old and
another, appropriately-named Longfellow who
measured Oft. 9m. in his bare feet, boasts ot a
Siuncil-clerk who has held the post for 35 years,
agricultural-secretary of 40 years’ standing, a
Presbyterian minister who has held Ins charge 52
years abentenarian in its benevolent asylum, and
£unan who has lived there for 75 years-75 years
in Singleton !—to say nothing of a six-legged calf
and a few insolvent institutions.
* * * *
The sea of journalism has been much
troubled along the N.S.W. Northern hne lately.
The two Singleton newspapers have each been
struck bv a £lOO libel-verdict and a fire—the lslo
get office was destroyed. Mrs Lr ai gie, pa -
owner of Armipale Express i had[ her end has
tened by a libel-verdict of £lOO and £bUU cost, ,
the Tamworth News proprietor was
in his office ; and a part-propnetorof Qunu-
Gazette died after a brief illness. Ail tnis
occurred within three months
From contribution-list of N.S. W ales Pat-
riotic Fund: —
Behind all which nomenclatural pretentiousness
ae "is pro Sly. nothing mote exctmg then a
disputed nap. “ kitty.
A PRO - BOER.
PORTER (to our gallant
defenders): “No
smoking allowed —
you must put those
pipes out.”
INCIDENTAL URCHIN: “ Garn! yer pro-Boer!”
Mind whore you place your lotters ! —■
Marriage : One body—each a part.
Divorce: One body each—apart.
Les. O.
• •
Wanganui (M.L.) recently held a Jingo
corrobboree, whereat was recited a distinctly
precious “patriotic” effusion by one W. R. Tay-
lor, M.A., which gives the interesting informa-
tion that ‘ ‘ Madock’s name shall long resound,”
and thus in lofty strains concludes —
But llatrick, thou untiring Mayor,
The work was planned ana done by you.
“ Hatrick, thou untiring Mayor !” Here indeed
breathed the true spirit of heroic verse. “Tay-
lor, M.A.,” is a poet worthy of the occasion.
• • • *
The latest thing in Sabbath crankery
comes from Hawkes Bay (M.L.) A woman when
locking her upstairs room on the inside broke the
“ANOTHER CASE."
“ Would yer he sh'kind'sh call n'ambulance, m'dear!
I feel a hit bu-bu-bon-hic! ”
key in the lock, making herself a prisoner. So
strong were the husband’s Sabbatanan principles
that he refused to allow the lock to be removed not
even to enable his wife to go to church ; and she
had perforce so stay where she was until Monday
morning, when he liberated her. The crank
supplied her with food by ascending a high ladder
and handing it through the window !
Justice Simpson, of N.S.W. Divorce
Court, suffers from increasing importunities to
reduce the interval between the decree nisi and
absolute in divorce cases. Women petitioners, in
particular, regard three months as an intolerable
stretch of suspense, and with tears plead to have
the period shortened to a month. This, in most
cases, is with the object of a second marriage. In
a couple of instances, lately, women re-married on
the day the decree absolute was pronounced.
* * * *
Said a man on the ferry-steamer t’other
evening:—
Down there near Sussex-street there was a round block
of a cove who had a rare way of doing business. He
had a refrigerating room and when you went down
to buy, he led you gently into the cold chamber and
seating himself on a block of ice commenced hag-
glingwith you about the price. You had a chair,
of course, but you didn’t sit on it too long. That
chair had been frozen for the past five years, so
you left it and leaned up against your umbrella
if you wanted to, for the temperature was so
rare that the umbrella became as hard as
the surroundings in a very few minutes.
This fellow’s game was to haggle with you
until you became so cold that your blood
froze in you and the power of thought
gave place to numbness and semi-coma.
When he had you as done as that he
would get up with a block of ice frozen
to his pants and insist on showing you
the fish and of course for very shanie
sake you had togo. You couldn’t give
in ignominiously to a man whose lower
extremities were half ice. There was
only one thing to do : to close with
the wretch at his own price. Any-
how, when the plague-scare started
and the coves come round who knew
all about it, we kidded them to go
down to this fellow’s store and look
for rats. They found ’em. He got
’em down there and argued with
them till their teeth chattered at
a gallop. Then he slowly showed
them round the store, showed them
every nook and corner. The thin-
nest bloke, whose circulation had
been stopped for half an hour, was
dying to get out. “ Spare me days,”
he said, “ I feel os cold as if me father
was a snowstorm and me mother an
iceberg. For ’Haven's sake, let us out,
old party I’’ “ Out!” says the dealer,
“ why, we can’t get out for another two
hours—l told ’em up in the office not to
open the doors for three hours ; 1 thought
you fellows came down to look for rats
and wait till you got ’em. So then they
tumbled how the land lay, and they offered
all they had on ’em for him to let ’em out
straightaway. He mode live quid odd out of
them and very nigh froze ’em to death as well.
Oh, there was no doing business with him in his
store except on his linos.
* * • •
The Australian Club, Sydney, is adver-
tising for a secretary.
Recent Melb, Age ad. :
I ODGINGS and breakfast, 55.; boarders, 10s.; good
table, no Boer sympathisers.
•
Dear Bulletin.— Re inoculation. Might
not plague-prophylactic be infectious under cer-
tain circumstances ? I was vaccinated once, and
when the calf-stuff had got to work I used another
fellow’s razor and cut myself. As he was sus-
picious of the blood-stained razor, we asked a
medico, who admitted that the localised malady
might from a cut communicate small-pox in
its full strength.—T.D.
A Wellington (M.L.) society lady, wife of
a high official dignitary who once figured as a
prominent parliamentarian, has got into bad
odor with the Noblest of that windy city
because of alleged Boer sympathies. She
was indiscreet enough to shrug her shoul-
ders at the horrors of all war and to ex-
press a hope that this war in particular
would soon be ended, which is quite
enough evidence in the present mad-
dened frame of the public mind to con-
vince all loyal subjects that she is a trai-
tor to the Empiah.
, * • *
A loquacious Maoriland M.H.R.,
addressing a country crowd lately, inci-
dentally congratulated them on the fact
that there had been no use for the
cemetery he’d got them. During the
next two days there were four sudden
deaths, and the local joiner got his
chance at last.
* * • *
A Napier (M.L.) hotel-keeper recently
made a pet of a baby-pig, and Isaac (that was the
porkerette’s name) became a great favorite with
all the hotel-frequenters, but some wags laud an in-
formation against the prop, for keeping pigs with-
in the city boundary, and Bung was fined. Ihe
fair mistress of the inn earned Isaac—who had a
blue ribbon round his neck-to court in her arms
and when the case went against them, dropped
copious tears on to the little porker s pink snout
Nevertheless, Isaac appeared the same evening at
the head of the table—on a dish with parsley
trimmings.
Dr. Jane Kinder, a Maorilander, who,
though not long in Adelaide, has delighted Dr.
Ramsay Smith (Board of Health president) and
his understudy, Dr. McDonald, by her fine taste
for microbes, takes charge of Adelaide’s sol. ary
plague case.
* * * »
In the Western Grazier, a publican ad-
vertises for “ a good Baremaid.”
The wreck of the Sierra Nevada, near
Port Phillip Heads (Vic.), resulted in a most
magnificent whisky-spread. The ship had a
hold full of “Scotch,” and when she broke up,
cases were washed up in loads, and bottles littered
the sands for half-a-mile. Those fortunate resi-
dents who went first to the scene in a deplorable
state of funk suddenly plucked up spirits, and a
great drunk hit the nation like a tidal wave, and
ran inland for miles. A batch of artillerymon
sent later to guard the wreckage found wreckers
INDUCEMENT.
HE : “I suppose it will never he the custom for the
ladies to do the proposing?”
SHE: “Not if they need as much inducement as
you seem to do!"
sleeping amongst the dead-marines all over the
place. They discovered one ambitious settler who
had put up a stack of seven full cases, and he was
sitting on top with an uncorked bottle in his hand,
drinking the health of the universe. Ihe soldiers
interviewed him, demanding his name and his
intentions, and he informed them in inebriate
English that he was the man m possession. 1 hish
ish my lil’ lot,” he said; “ there’sh plen y more—
he’p yerselfs.” He was waiting for his missus, he
said—she was coming with a barrow. When that
man was plucked off his little lot, and even robbed
of his uncorked bottle, his disgust was piteous.
They left him.gibboring on a rock, and when his
wife came with the barrow she wheeled him home.
Sydney takes its plague more cheerfully
than did the people of London in 1065, the great
year of the pestilence. In that year broad-sheets
were issued with wood-cut borders made of death s-
heads, cross-bones, skeletons, hour-glasses, and old
Father Time with a scythe in his hand and cloven
hoofs instead of feet. Under the title-page of one
of them is a representation of London, with the
inscription, “ O London, repent, repent ! An
angel hovering over the city is darting arrows,
daggers and fiery tongues on the devoted metro-
polis ; while in the foreground are corpses, hearses,
people kneeling in prayer, and Death digging a
grave. These sheets teem with remedies for the
disease, compounded of extraordinary mixtures of
herbs; but they contain not a word as to the
necessity of washing as well as praying, and of
cleansing things generally. It was the great fire
of London that proved to be the true saviour of
the city and secured its immunity from subsequent
serious visitations of. the plague. One of the old-
time broad-sheets thus quaintly sets forth a special
means of preserving health : “First fast and pray.
Then take a quart of Repentance of Nineveh, and
put in two handfuls of Faith in the Blood of
Christ, with as much Hope and Charity as you
can get, and put it into the vessel of a clean con-
science. Then boil it on the fire of Love so long
till you see by the eye of Faith the black foam of
the love of this world stink in your stomach ; then
scum it off clean with the spoon of faithful prayers.
When that is done, put in the powder of Patience,
and take the cloth of Christ’s Innocency and strain
altogether in His Cup. Then drink it burning
hot near thy heart and cover thee warm with as
many cloths of Amendment of Life as God shall
strengthen thee to bear, that thou mayest sweat
out all the poisons of covetousness, pride, idolatry,
usury, swearing, lying, and such-like.”
FATHERLESS—MOTHERLESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By my window they are wheeling
Little Olay and little Feeling,
Through the long hours of the sunlight oft-repeated they
go by ;
And I watch the true caresses
Of the girl with streaming tresses
Till I think a girl was dreaming but where Worm and
Beauty lie.
No—the dirt was built above her,
Built beneath the hearts that love her :
Sister to the streaming tresses—mother to the tender
Olay ;
In the tomb they gently laid her
What a single sin had made her—
Little tender Olay and Feeling ushered into light of
day.
WIL JARRATT.
THE WOMAN SPEAKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
So you think because I’m a woman
I was made but for pleasure and tears —
You ! who smile and sneer at the sex I claim
With the savoir-faire of your forty years.
Ah, yes ! I’m a woman, and human, too,
I can laugh and weep, and—pity me ! — love.
That’s the part of me made for the play of man.
3lan ! No, thanks, I can manage my glove.
We shall meet to-night at the dance, perhaps ;
You’ll see me flirting behind my fan,
With arms a-gleam and shoulders bared
To the critical gaze of men, O man !
And you’ll come to me claiming a waltz, perhaps-
I’ll grant your wish with a grateful smile ;
And your arm will clasp me a moment or two,
And we shall be lovers a little while.
But 0, the thought that my smiles suppress
(For I am strong, quite strong, O man !)
The measuring, searching, judging thoughts
That I hide as only a woman can ?
I’m only a woman, whose passionate heart
Is made for laughter, and tears, and love,
And that is for men ; but soul and brain
I keep for myself and the gods above.
AMBROSE PRATT.


[Forecast for ap lodefipite Period.]
Froip MARK FOY’S OBSERVATORY,
OXFORP STREET.
B6siQC&S “Fipe apd Clear” generally, tboCigb
“Storrpy” at certaip tiipeS of tb€ year.
Tbc prescot iodicatioo poiots to diStCirbapcc
“AOtGipp FaSbiopS.”
w. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
m
&
All Drapers Everywhere.
stone TEAS have NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 22, 1900.
My Dear Mtee.—
Saturday’s races—Tattersall’s meeting at Rand-
wipk —were a very small affair, Sydney’s Best
being at the Blue Mountains and her Second-
best waving flags over themselves in George-
street. . The Third-best sported tri-colored
ribbons, but no one seemed to be wearing khaki
except one small boy whose mother wasn’t certain
of the right color, so gave him a little of every-
thing from yellow to deep-brown to make sure
of it.
The news of the Relief of Mafeking in sections
gave everyone time to be spontaneous, though
patriotic delirium set in 48 hours before the P.O.
clock chimed furiously. The public—men,
women, and children—decorated itself with
medals, and everyone looked as though he had
done it himself; while men with the thin, cada-
verous, Baden-Powell visage foresaw themselves
the season’s fashion, and rejoiced accordingly.
On Friday evening a strange man wept publicly
on the new panne cloak of a lady next him in
the theatre. “ Maf’kin—S’Africa—Relieved—
awfu’ sufferin’ —and fell asleep on her shoulder.
On Saturday a wooden, cow-like atrocity purport-
ing to be a lion and labelled “John Bull,” nodded
its head in a draper’s doorways, while the small,
kind-looking cub at its side bore on its forehead
the name of Baden-Powell. One lady said it
brought the tears to her eyes, while the others
rewarded the draper’s loyalty by swarming in-
doors and buying acres of patriotic ribbons. In
the morning 500 cadets rolled up to the Post-office
square. They God-Saved-the-Queen for an hour
or two, and then dispersed to enact the great Feed
at Mafeking in the various tea-shops.
Lady Mary Lygon made her first public appear-
ance, and looked unusually well after her trip
Home, and His Ex. made a nice little open-air
Jingo speech. Many of the leading musicians
stood outside the music-shops and tuned up the
air which doesn’t require further mentioning.
People who hadn’t spoken for years made it up
publicly, and with enthusiasm. Great interest
was manifested when a lady drove into town
dressed in a magnificent royal-blue gown, with
ribbons of the British colors streaming. It was
Lady Francis Hope, whom we used to know as
Miss May Yohe.
It is reported that Lord Beauchamp is to be
invited to take the chair at a meeting of the Uni-
versity Debating Society, where the question is to
be discussed—Why a Governor should not sub-
scribe to public hospitals or other public charities.”
But one thing must be said : if the public looks to
the Governor to subscribe in lordly style, or even
at all, to everything he is asked to help, it most
assuredly cannot intend him to live within his
official income of £7OOO a year. For, counting in all
allowances, it is hard to see how Government-
house can be maintained on less than £2O a day.
Mr. Harris, who is twin-brother to Lord
Malmesbury, is the new A.D.C. to his Ex. He is
a mild-seeming young man, who does not look as
if he would suggest any more social revolutions in
the shape of parting a man and his wife by means
of blue and white tickets at any future vice-regal
shivoos.
However, shivoos are not the order of the day
at present, owing to the recent vice-regal bereave-
ment. We are told that on July 11 his Ex. will
return to cheerful life by taking dinner with the
Chamber of Commerce, instead of in his own rat-
proof mansion.
There is a terrible rumor that, owing to a dis-
pute, Lord Beauchamp did not invite General
French to his Queen’s Birthday dinner, and that,
owing t<p several things, the Lancers don’t (or
didn’t) intend to provide a Queen’s Birthday
escort for His Excellency.
One version is that the latest fashionable
victim of the epidemic, a Woollahra girl, caught
the plague from trying on cloaks sent on approval
from up town.
There will be a dreadful disappointment to two
best girls in this city now that young See and
Lyne, jun., are reported to have left their superior
second lieutenancies behind them because their pre-
ferment was objected to as favoritism. One lias
departed from the force altogether, while No. 2
more sensibly has merely stepped down and con-
sented to herd with the ordinal y soldiery.
It is said that Lieut. Dowling, the first wounded
hero back from S’Africa, is engaged to a young
lady relative of General Richardson.
There is little dressing about Nance m her
namesake-part at Her Majesty’s, Dickens’s
heroine belonging to that section of society which
commonly regards a change of wardrobe as super-
fluous as a marriage-certificate. So Nance keeps
her lopsided dress and dubious pinafore, only
changing out of her curl-papers occasionally. By
the way, we shall have the tall American with us
till the end of the year, Williamson having
arranged with her to stay in Australasia for that
period. She will then make her final appearance
as the Shakespearian lady who washes her hands
publicly in her nightgear, and thus disappear
from our midst in a blaze of volcanic glory.
The Woman’s National Council held a little
meeting at the Town Hall, while slow, religious
music was wafted up from the organ below. A
placard on the Town Hall door, “No More Men
Required,” was understanded of this scribess when
she found two thin, white-haired men forming an
unostentatious background to the crowd of ladies.
Evidently two men, and old at that, to 50 women
js the correct thing among Advanced ladyhood.
There was something about the drains in the
second part of the programme, but this
scribess did not wait for that, having-
had enough of sewers and sinks and other
plaguey items in the daily papers. She only
wanted to hear nice, restful things about women
being a sisterhood, and always helping one
another, while she matured plans for paying out.
several other cats, and otherwise being a dear,
sweet girl.
The lecturess—Miss Spence, of S.A. Hare-
Spence system of voting fame —reiterated the
usual cheerful prophecy that women would go.
straight for moral politicians, though why women
should be expected to consider morals in politics
when they don’t consider them in marriage is a.
mystery. A moral man, it is said, is a man that
keeps one wife and beats her, and the immoral
man is the man who lives peaceably with many
women. This curious liking for morality—in
other women’s husbands—doesn’t mean that
women should not have the vote. They should
have it because it means double votes for every
married man—and married men deserve double
votes.
By the way, what are the religious opinions of
the convention ? It sounds curious to hear a
woman one moment advocating woman’s influence
in politics as a religious factor, and the next gibing
because one man said that woman never looked
more beautiful than in the act of devotion ?
The secretary read a number of notes, which
as well as could be heard (under the loud pealing
of the organ) were to the effect that delegates were
invited to represent the council in foreign lands—
Holland and France more particularly—and it
was proposed to immolate Miss Margaret Win-
deyer on the holy shrine by sending her to foreign-
speaking councils, as she has already had
experience in the land where ’Murkan is spoke.
Went fossicking round charitable institutions
the other day, don’t know why, perhaps
because it was plague-time, and it would there-
fore be hard to get in. Interviewed a home
for girls, a large home, acres of beds, expensive
boilers that are never used, room, in fact, for a
hundred and fifty girls ; and the actual girls num-
ber 13—all because of a stupid law which allows
only criminal girls under 16 to enter. If she be
a day over that age when she annexes a piece of
ribbon from the shop-counter, then gaol is her
usual destination. The matron expresses a yearn-
ing desire for really bad girls to work upon ; but
ho man gives unto her. Curious institution the
State. It wants to take over the Rand wick
Asylum, because there a handful of children lose
themselves daily amongst a pile of masonry and
have to be looked for with a microscope, as it
were, when they are to be shown to visitors ; yet
it does not seem able to manage over well with
what it has already got.
The Parramatta Industrial Home for Girls is
taking excessive precautions against the Plygue.
A hairless-looking girl opened the door to us, and
left it two inches. open while she went and con-
sulted somebody invisible. She informed writer
and friend that no one could see the institution
except when the Superintendent was in, and the
Superintendent was out. The Matron, like
Royalty, was never seen. We implored her to
ask some baronet to ask some nobleman to ask the
Matron to telephone to a certain personage in the
city who had officially guaranteed us free from
Plague for two weeks; but she was mute. We
had asked her if this was the Industrial Girls’
Home, and she had answered she did not know.
The girls in this institution are not permitted to
have any information ; they are not allowed even
to know where they are. We shook the plague
germs off our feet, and left this mysterious man-
sion.
The State Cottage Homes for old married
people are situated in the same town ; white, clean
buildings with flower-gardens in front. These
form the aristocracy of pauperism ; but it isn’t the
aristocratic pauper that necessarily gets there.
We interviewed one lady ; she was very dirty and
very religious,. with bits of moustaches knocking
about her face in places where they shouldn’t have
been. When we asked her who scrubbed her floor for
her, she said God did. Another old lady was in a
great state of gratitude because the Government
gave her food that was fit to eat; she told us as a
real, genuine fact, that the bread was never raw
and that walk about meat had never walked in
her direction. The Government is hereby
counselled to continue in its noble work. In fact,
the only grievance to every cottager is that he has
to live among other cottagers who are dependent
on the State. He does not like to associate with
people who are paupers. When he feels very bad,
however, he remembers that one of the pensioners
is a clergyman’s brother, and his self-respect is
restored. If the Govt, could get hold of a stone-
broke English Earl (Scotch would pass) and dump
him into the centre cottage, it would be doing
another noble action. The cottagers have a library
and a miniature park in common, but they don’t
seem to hobnob together on the benches or in each
other’s parlors in the slightest degree, nor do they
lend each other newspapers or talk war or good
old times, or do anything that such people are
represented as doing in novels. Poor people—the
better class of them—never do. There is far more
reserve and love of privacy—the sacredness of the
family frying-pan and all that sort of thing—
among “common ” people than among those of a
“ higher ” grade. And yet it is to those people that
we hope to introduce the kitchen in common, and
it is those people we thrust into gloomy crowded
workhouses in their sorrowful old age.
The musical phenomenon is herself a fairly
harmless person, but usually possesses a pushing
ma to pilot her to the great ear of the public.
Therefore it was pleasing to notice at Miss Elsie
Hall’s recital a conspicuous absence of aggressive
parent. It takes a thrill or two from your pleasure
in listening to somebody’s brilliant s’nata to have
flattering comments in a staccato whisper tickling
your off ear. “My daughter played before all
the ... and the Duchess said—” But the bril-
liant Elsie’s mother had sense enough to stay at
home while her daughter entertained a fraction of
Sydney’s noblest.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The little mahogany Japs, of the visiting war-
ship clustered close together beside the dais, at the
Homoeopathic Hospital ball, on Monday night, and
shyly watched the whirlers. All the Naice girls
in the vicinity gazed seriously at them in turn,
and vainly sought for distinguishing features.
One might as well look for individuality in a
bunch of grapes. At length introductions broke
up the cluster, and Miss .Ruby Madden fell into
conversation with the dapper little brownies.
Miss Lorna Price and a few other smart girls fol-
lowed suit, and the Japs. made merry. By the
way, the gem of the vice-regal party was a bonnie
figure in white—a net covered with full-stops over
a silk slip. But in spite of Jappy attractions, the
dance jogged along as heavily asa pro vision-van over
a back-country track. One missed the Mayor (who
is travelling with his wife on her trip ’Ome as far as
Albany) from the dais, and probably the Guvment
House party regretted S’Malcolm’s absence also,
as they steered their way into the common or
garden refreshment-room for their claret-cup. Sir
J ohn’s light goes out in a ball-room. A moustache,
a button-hole, and a beaming presence are not in
it with capable tootsies, and the Waxellency up-
holding the honor of the dais is a pale glory beside
the fast-walking Lord Brassey, whose collisions
with various couples left many impressions behind.
“ Medical men taboo homoeopathic hops, hence
the absence t’other night of the Qollins-street clan,
who make up a fair proportion of sassiety. The
only prominent doctor in evidence at the ball wore
a dinner-coat and his hair parted in the centre.
He enjoyed as much distinction as the Jappies.
“To revert to the attention paid the nutmeg
brethren by our girls, perhaps the best token
was a kimona-like white-satin toilette and raven
hair dressed d la Geisha, affected by a pretty,
dark little charmer just out from ’Ome. As she
circled past, the visitors nudged each other and
sent approving glances after her swathed and
waistless form. Several sirens sported Japanese
fans—which attention was not lost.
“The Japs are nice little men, but Mel-
bourne girls keep forgetting they’re not chil-
dren, and offend them by instinctively pushing
them into chairs, &c., as if they were shy small
boys. ‘Too large and loud’ is the Jap sum-
ming-up of local charmers.
“The little brown Japs off the visiting. war-
ship showed themselves to be extremely inquisi-
tive. They invaded the Melbourne shops in
troops, fingering all the goods, and jabbering over
items of interest like a school of cockatoos. Five
of them strayed into the “ladies’ department ” of
a city drapery, where a staff of nice girls was in
charge, and, not comprehending the protestations
their conduct provoked, answered only with coy
celestial smiles, and began pulling the stock about,
and investigating the displayed lingerie. When
the show-women fled the place, squealing, the
proprietor and male assistants armed themselves
with yardsticks and routed the Japs, who were
cackling amazed ly over mysterious garments.
One of their number, for the enlightenment of his
brethren, had drawn on over his arms a sample
article of apparel that is not worn a bit like that.
This is put down to Jap innocence, but with the
experience the little brown men have had they
really ought to know better.
“Mrs Burrell, the ‘blonde, massive, and forty’
matron whom all Melbourne knows by sight,
appears to have been getting a divorce from her
husband, Tom, on the ground of desertion. The
Herald report gave the thrilling news that the
vast petitioner, Helene Ernestina Louisa Dorothea
Burrell (what a name to go to Court' with !) ‘was
dressed in black satin, a Gainsborough hat with
ostrich feathers, a lynx tippet, and considerable
jewellery.’ Her tale of woe sounds not too shock-
mg. Hubby Tom was a mantle manufacturer,
and she a saleswoman when they joined hands and
hearts in London. His business failed, so they
came to Melbourne where he started to make some
more mantles, but next year Mrs. Burrell was the
manufacturer, whilst the other fellow took to drink.
Then he went away to England and America for
six years, and the only consolation his wife got
from the absentee all that long time was £l3 paid
by instalments. On his return to Melbourne she
gave him all the comforts of a home for a year or
two but complained of his pro-whisky tendencies
and finally paid his third class passage to London
with a view to following him thither if he ‘did
well. In 1898 Mrs. B. went thither to see if Tom
was doing well. She met him coming downstairs
from his office and he said he was glad to see her.
At any rate he celebrated the event by taking
lunch’ dinner and supper in the lady’s company.
Those three meals must have hardened Tom’s
heart, for his manner grew chilly, and instead of
taking his wife to the theatre when she wrote to
ask him for the favour, he replied by sending her
a couple of tickets. Mrs. Burrell’s only communi-
cation with her liege lord after that was a notice
of her divorce proceedings, which doesn’t seem to
have worried him. The Judge was sympathetic,
and the fair-haired German lady in the Gains-
borough hat got her decree all right. This all
shows how advisable it is for a married woman to
go into business for herself.
“ Lieut. Liiley, wounded in the Paardeberg fight
.s the tall, handsome Italian-looking militaire'
whose swaggah was so imposing a feature of Melb’
block. Lilley is the Adonis who was the centre of
a huge political fakement about a year ago. The
authorities suddenly suspended their regulations
so as to block young Skene and run the naice
Liiiey into a permanent - artillery commission.
Ifortunately, the job was exposed, but nevertheless
the military gang tried to rush Lilley through
An exam, however, stood in the way, and the
Lilley that toiled not neither did he spin, returned
to the militia.
“ Now that the war-rush is over, an exodus to
Pans Exhibition is all the rage with the Vic
moneyed classes. Among the travellers 40 young
ladies who have long been saving up their spare
com intend to form a contingent and visit the
show on their own. They will travel under the
auspices of a chaperone of most approved morals.
Just discovered that Speaker Mason of the
Vic. Assembly has been calmly living in Melb.
Parliament House since the end of last session.
V hen the members moved out, ‘King Charles'
apparently shifted in, planked down his lares and
penates in the Queen’s Hall, hung up his big fur
coat on the mace, and settled down for a quiet
smoke in the Council Chamber. People are now
wondering whether they can send Mason a bill
for rent or put in a bailiff to distrain on his art
furniture.
“The local plague-scare has given opportunities
for paying off old scores to several malicious
persons. At Brighton a highly-esteemed com-
mercial gentleman was subjected to a surprise
visit by the Health Board, accompanied by police,
who commandeered the premises and took posses-
sion of the inmates. It finally transpired that a
lately-dismissed servant-girl had thought fit to re-
venge herself by an anonymous letter reporting
the existence of the plague in the domicile ; the
fact of the ‘ missus ’ having recently returned
from Sydney being made use of to give an air of
verisimilitude to a bald and otherwise unconvinc-
ing narrative. On the discovery of the hoax the
blockade was raised, and the assailants trekked
home again in disgust, but the public don’t accept
the explanation in a proper spirit, for the house
and its occupants are boycotted on all sides, and
the master’s business has dwindled to zero owing
to the dread of clients to venture near a contact.
“ An ‘ unfaithful servant ’ recently run to earth
by the police was accustomed to advertise himself
as * a young Christian gardener ’ under the
pseudonym of ‘Snow-drop.” This blossom’s
bower, as testified by victims, was habitually
decorated with photographs (presumably souvenirs
of former billets) of the most fashionable girls in
Melbourne, whom he described as his ‘ sisters.’
As the brother of such really ‘ Naice ’ damsels, he
invariably conducted himself with unbearable
insolence towards the ordinary suburban woman-
kind of his employers. He got his ‘ walking-
ticket,’ of course, as the price of his disdain, but
he never went empty-handed away, as shown
by his present accumulation of bikes, &o.
“ Visitors from India testify that if we could see
the Famine sufferers we’d live on bread and water
and “pay, pay, pay” to help them out of tor-
ment. It’s like a horrible dream, to see living
skeletons pointing voicelessly to their parched
tongues. Those with strength enough sift the
dust in the street in hopes of finding eatable
grains.
“The Sierra Nevada, which went down the
other day in sight of Melbourne lights, after more
than 100 days’ voyage, had a hero on board, Craw-
ley, the chief officer, who lost his life, but not until
he had fought and won that of a bed-ridden sailor.
One poor lad, washed ashore, was haunted in his
delirium, by the drowned Captain’s hoary head.
He kept wailing “O blessed sacrifice of Calvary !
It’s the Captain, I know his grey hair ! ”
“ The photograph of herself, sent by Madame
Melba to her friends in Melbourne, and taken
together with Haddon Chambers and Bertram
Mackennal in Madame’s garden, is now explained.
Mackennal has done a bust of the diva, and the
brilliant playwright is going to marry her. ‘ The
Book of Life,’ says a man in a comedy of the
period, ‘ begins with a man and a woman in a
garden.’ ‘lt ends,’ says another character, ‘ witli
Revelations.’
“Despite old Coroner Youl’s dictum that
you might as well dress a child in gun
powder, as in flannelette,’ nothing but the
imposition of a crushing duty will, it seems,
stop fond. mothers from endangering their
children’s lives by garbing them in this terribly
inflammable material. When fire touches flan-
nelette it bursts into flame instantaneously. The
other day a housewife of my acquaintance sought
to buy a youngster’s flannel night-dress, and after
visiting six shops was compelled after all to buy
the flannel to make the garment herself. Each
shop produced a diverse array of flannelette
nightdresses, with the stereotyped excuse in
resentful tones, ‘ We’re never asked for flannel,
you know.’ Yet the morgue returns of the last
three years show that over 20 deaths by burning
were directly attributable to the wearing of the
rubbish.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
At latest there were 100 plague patients
at Sydney Quarantine Hospital. Total case to
date, 239; deaths, 82; discharged as recovered, 52.
Out of the first 238 cases of plague re-
ported to N.S.W. Board of Health 81 ended
fatally. The proportion of deaths keeps curiouslv
close to lin 3. Yet despite this high mortality
Sydney’s April death-rate is the lowest for a
decade, undoubtedly due to the careful and sus
picious manner adopted by the citizens towards
the smelly drain and diseased cat.
Premier Seddon’s health begins to seri-
ously worry his friends. The short, sharp sessions
of Maonland Parliament, when all the legislative
work of the country is crowded into three months
places a tremendous mental and physical strain
on public men who try to keep pace with things.
It killed Atkinson, apparently a man of iron, and
sent Ballance and quite a number of others to
untimely graves. And in the press gallery the
death-rate of the 14 or 15 regular journalists used
to average about one a session. Longer sessions
and shorter sittings is an urgently demanded!
reform in Maoriland Parliament.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
For the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling atfid soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland's articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
Gladstone : What is morally wrong, can-
not ho politically right.
Miss Brad don has earned more than
£lOO,OOO by her novel writing, and there is still
money in the old girl’s ink.
To prevent Bubonic Plague wear Mefzler’s
“ Protective Anklets,” a certain protective against
the access of vermin and disease germs from the
ground. They are worn by several members of the
medical profession, including doctors of the staff of
the Board of Health, and are worn also by mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Police Force on duty in the
plague-infected quarters of Sydney. Obtainable
from all first-class chemists or from Head Office
of the Proprietary, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTUV.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
Dr. M. MACKENZIE'S
THROAT LOZENGES
Are being Imitated.
Be SURE that the address on the Label
is Leadenhall-st., London.
Sole Agent for
Australasia :
C. E. Newman
King-St., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
To-morrow (Sunday, May 27) is the 85th
anuiversary of the birthday of Henry Parkes.
London World, just to hand, says Lord
, . ‘
Beauchamps sisters are going to join him “in
South Australia.”
There was a war-policy of £2OOO in
A.M.P. Society on the life of H. H.'Spooner, the
Sydney E. News correspondent who recently died
of enteric fever in S’Africa
Pasini. 7;ilma„ i„4. e cs j tt 'i. -
Pastor Zillman, late of Sydney Unitarian
h u f, A haS w? appointed a travelling speech-
niaker through the United States in the political
I^ryan ’ the pro-Boer candidate
for / e Presidency.
Aaye Douglas (Tas.) completes his 85th
year on May 30, and on the same day F. T. Sar-
good, M.L.C. (Vic.), will be 6G. A Launceston
paper recently boasted that Douglas, on Tas-
EXPERT COOKERY.
“I hear Mrs. Smith is publishing a cookery-
book”
“Yes; and all the advertisements have been taken
by a liver-pill syndicate! ”
man inn election-day, travelled to Hobart to record
liia vote, and then returned to Launceston to do
likewise.
A/>ropoB Bishop Thornton’s recent glorifi-
cation of Woman, it is said that two wealthy
parishes in England are to be reserved for him
when he retires from Ballarat. The gift of the
“livings” is in the hands of ladies.
Mr. William Dwyer, sub-inspector of
N.S.W. State schools, retires on pension after 44
years’ service. Mr. Dwyer is father of Coadjutor-
Bishop Dwyer, of Maitland, the first native-born
Australian appointed to the R.C. episcopate.
The death of Signor Simonetti seems to
have addled Queensland Byrnes’ memorial com-
mittee. Their latest is to invite a sketch model
from sculptors showing the ex-Premier 3ft. high *
and in a frock-coat! The thing grows more and
more ridiculous.
W. R. Boothby, S.A.’s chief returning-
otticer, -has been controlling that province’s elec-
tions since 1856, the year when S.A. had its first
Constitutional Government. Boothby is the
author of the present mode of voting by ballot—
which has spread all over the world.
The recent big batch of admissions to
Vic. bar included pushful Hourigan, formerly of
SA. and Westralia. It is understood that the
peripatetic lawyer will try next to wedge his way
into N.S.W. bar, with the ambitious idea that
wherever the Federal judicature is fixed he will
be on the spot ready for briefs.
Rumored that Vic. Justice Williams will
probably retire from the bench at the end of his
12 months’ trip. Justice Holroyd is also men-
tioned as likely to quit soon. Both would be en-
titled to pensions of £l5OO, and successors would
probably be found in brilliant Isaacs or solid
C ussen.
Lord Roberts’ official organ at Bloem-
fontein offers a prize for the best suggestion for a
name for “the new colony of our greater Empire,”
and in doing so prints a long list of already-
suggested names. Among these is “New Ireland! ”
The editor of Bobs’ organ must indeed be a dull
person.
Edmund John Eyre, first of the Australian
explorers in point of time, is still living in Eng-
land ; last month, he celebrated the 50th anniver-
sary of his marriage, which took place in Auck-
land. But that was years after his historic
expedition in the country lying between Spencer’s
Gulf and Albany. Eyre that time—it was in ’4O
—set out with five whites and three blacks. Only
one solitary black got through to the West with
him ; the rest were either murdered or deserted,
or were sent back. Eyre was but 25 at the time.
The band which marched through Mel-
bourne the other night to advertise the Town Hall
concert in aid of the widow and orphans of John
Hancock, M.L.A., played,“Sons of the Sea” and
“Soldiers of the Queen” all the way down
Bourke-street. John was the man who “hated
the sight of a soldier,” and never feared to admit
it, but militarism has got even.
Kipling’s Times articles in which he des-
cribes his experiences with a hospital train—
printed also in Melb. Argus and S.M. Herald—
approach perilously near to mere twaddle. The
stuff read hard, labored and theatrical—like Kip-
lingese by an impoverished disciple. It is sudden-
jerk literature, every jerk giving a jar and sug-
gesting the stertorous efforts of a well-paid patriot
to live up to his cheque. The Kipling mannerism
is there in all Kipling’s African stuff, but it is
machine-made, and one feels ashamed of the un-
avoidable suspicion that it is Rhodes who is turn-
ing the handle.
A certain “calico” Vie. M.L.C.
once said in the course of an address in
the House : “ I owe my success in busi-
ness to my adherence to the motto
‘ Never miss a chance.’ ” Which was also
Dick Turpin’s precept.
The Marquis of Norinanby, sou
of the anecdote-spotted Governor of
Queensland, Maoriland and Victoria,
seems to be a chip of the old block.
Money is scarce with him. He is a Canon
of Windsor and runs a sort of boarding-
house for bachelors in Mulgrave Castle,
and is besides head of a boys’ boarding-
school ; and still the income doesn’t keep
his titles in countenance. Although a
bachelor of only 54, the soap and petroleum
girls of America appear to let him go by.
Mr. Jacob Goldstein (who, at
latast, was understood to be a Rabbi
somewhere in England) has, it it alleged,
a recommendation from Julian Salomons
for the office of what may be called
Journalistic Assistant to N.S.W. Agent-
General. Mr. Goldstein, who originally
hailed from Melbourne, was a few years
ago a political wire-puller in Sydney,
and was an important factor of ex-Pre-
mier Reid’s election committees. He
was placed on the estimates for £2(5 ss. for
some service or other, after which he
started for London. There he again met
Reid and was commissioned to report on
French charities, with the result that the
estimates were loaded with £l3O on
this account. Jacob appears to know his
way about among politicians.
The Hist N.S.W. member secured in a
State seat by the transfer of a powerful rival to
the Federal arena is the venerable Archer, of Bur-
wood. W. M’Millan formally bids his old con-
stituency goodbye, and looks higher. Archer is a
Londoner, was an old Palmer digger, a contractor,
a colliery owner, a sheep and cattle salesman, and
has be&n many times alderman and once at least
Mayor.
An extremely respectable and
haughty manager of a great Victorian
financial institution created a profound
feeling of insecurity in a Melbourne
suburb, the other day, by bounding
along the main street with a red face, a
belltopper Stuck on anyhow, and his
coat-tails streaming in the air. As the
railway-station hove in sight he laid
down his ears and sprinted, cutting out
the last 100yds. in record time. As
he lurched up against the barrier with
his tongue on his chin, the station-
master stepped out with a smile. “Ah !
Mr. Midas, I know what you’ve come
for,” he said, lifting a bag from his
office at the same time. “ Porter Smith
found it in the carriage you travelled
in.” Midas snatched the bag, tore it
open frantically, and, fervently breath-
ing “ Thank God ! ” sank into a seat to
mop his flurried brow. “ I had a
month’s salary in that bag,” he gasped
at length, in a sudden burst of confi-
dence, “over £100.” “ Indeed,” said
the station - master ; “ Porter Smith is
at the station now.” “Is he, indeed!”
rejoined Midas, arising; “I must be
getting away home.” The S.-M.
interposed, “Yes; Smith’s just on
the platform now; I’ll call him.”
“ Don’t bother him, now he’s busy,”
said Midas, as he picked up his
treasure and scooted, “but give him my
best thanks ”
E. Murphy, the Ballarat (Vic.)
M.L.A., who has gone to another and
better world, was a great bullster:
“The mimber axes me wouldn't wan
line av railways do fer us, an’ I say it
won’t. How cud we comean’ go on the
wan line widout runnin’ into ourselves?”
Another: “Ah, it’s the divil bein’ a
public man, so it is. Ye niver have
anny toime to yerself ixciptin’ when
ye are alone.” Asked if a prominent
brother member was a.single man, Mur-
phy answered, innocently, “ Well,
ginerally.”
J, C. Syme, part-proprietor of
Melb. Age until a few years ago, gets his Christian
names from Joseph Cowen, the recently-deceased
distinguished English Parliamentarian. Ebenezer
Syme, J.C.’s father, was connected with Cowen’s
Newcastle paper in 1851. Cowen’s printed
volume of speeches is as good as John Bright’s,
but he was what is called in politics “impractic-
able”—i.e., honest —so he never reached Cabinet
rank, though a rich man.
Gov. Lamington (erstwhile Premier Salis-
bury’s private secretary) is said to be most
ambitious of the Federal Governor-Generalship,
but he has “ put his foot into it ” so dejply that it
is unlikely Australia will take any Lamington—
any more than she will take any more Way than
he can help under Federation.
Out of 125 members of N.S.W. Assembly,
113 signed R. D. Meagher’s petition for reinstate-
ment on the roll of attorneys, from which Meagher
was struck off after the Dean episode. Of the
remaining dozen, executive reasons, withheld
several signatures. The remainder—with one
exception—wished to sign, but would not return
to Sydney on account of the plague, and Meagher
feared the postal miscarriage of the document.
Certainly a remarkable instance of unanimity, in
fenerosity at least. The petition was also signed
y 113 attorneys.
Quite a number of clever young N.S.W.
politicians are qualifying for the bar. W. A.
Holman, member * for Grenfell, lias success-
fully negotiated the first obstacles; and James
Ashton, member for Goulburh, is also reaching
out for horsehair. J. D. Fitzgerald, ex-Labor
member for West Sydney, was lately called, and
his first brief was as junior to R. E. O’Connor,
c Vi’ ii ° a PP eartJ d for “Dick” Ryan, solicitor,
ot Dublxi, whom tlie Full Court required to show
cause, &e. The respondent was “admonished
and discharged.’ He had run against an ex-
policeinan m a little unintentional irregularity
over a Bench-warrant.
a us^ce Bundey, the most popular of
B.A. Judges, has issued a booklet entitled “The
Conviction of Innocent Men.” in which he
warns juries not to give too i -h credence
to policemen, and not to reiy over much
no circumstantial evidence. He endorses
the view put forward by the editor of
Taylor on Evidence ”; “ That all men are
guilty till they are proved to be innocent
is naturally the creed of the police, but
it is a creed that finds no sanction in a
court of justice.” Then the Judge proceeds
to relate a case in which all the circum-
stances alleged in evidence seemed to point
conclusively to a prisoner’s guilt, with the
result that he was convicted and sentenced
*-° years’ imprisonment, whereas in the
end it was proved he was entirely innocent,
and that the incriminating circumstances
were only so many extraordinary coinci-
dences.
In N.S.W. law-courts the most
shabby, old, yellow, disreputable-looking
wig is worn by a pugnacious Q.C. who pro-
bably earns more than any other man at
the bar. Q.C. Reid wears his wig on the
side over his left ear, as he does his hat.
“Jack Want” has a new wig, bought
in London during his recent visit. Emu-
lous young juniors are having their
seldom-used wigs altered in imitation of
Want’s, which will be regarded as the
latest style—till Salomons comes out.
N.b. W. Public Service Board transfers
R. P. Sellors, first assistant in Sydney Observa-
tory, to Lands Dept., and fills his place with
three junior clerks. Sellors is credited with a
talent for astronomy, and with some good original
work in his line. Where’s the sense of robbing
the Observatory of its brains if it is to do any
useful work ? And if it does no useful work,
what’s the use of keeping its extensive equipment
(the 11 fin. refracting telescope alone is worth
£10,000) to provide a sort of free celestial raree-
show for straggling pleasure-seekers?
The “ Dutch Seer ” who (as per cable)
when consulted by Kruger, predicted that the war
would end in June and that within three months
afterwards Oom Paul would die, may make a
reputation on his prophecy, but all the same he is
a man who travels more on his horse-sense than
on his second sight. On present appearances this
war must soon end, and as poor old Kruger is in
an advanced state of Bright’s disease, and is
probably being propped up by excitement, he is
likely enough to collapse utterly when the smash
finally and irrevocably comes.
“ Melb.’ ; South Polar Borchgrevinck
plays the mysterious. His hand full of nows, and
lie won’t open his little finger. All we can do is
to admire his Southern Cross, a taut little wooden
“ SHEOLITE'S ON THE SPREE.”
MIDDLEUS : “So you had a good time? ”
CUSSUS: “ Yesh — hie! They mistook us — hie—for
the D. T’s! ”
auxiliary steamer, rigged as a barque, with tall
masts. His Arctic dogs are either blackish or
yellow in the fur, and like big foxes or small
wolves. Turning up “Ross’s Voyages,” I was
surprised at my ignorance of the enormous moun-
tains he discovered, with peaks worthy of being
named alongside those of the Alps, such as Mount
Blanc, Mount Rosa, and the Gothard.
The young Sydney pressman who is
understood to have gone ’Ome to a position in
N.S.W. Agent-General’s office, reputedly en-
gineered things with characteristic audacity.
The original idea was that he should go as private-
secretary, to Edmund Barton on the Federal
jaunt, but the N.S.W. delegate had someone else
in favor, and nobody was appointed at all. Then
the pressman impressed on Premier Lyne that as
all arrangements for his journey were completed,
something would have to be done for him. And
Lyne “came over.”
Contended by George Meudell, the beaten
candidate, that his rival, James Sadler, M.L.A.,
was not lawfully elected for Grenville (Vic.) the
other week. The Law is said to require a Par-
liamentary candidate's personal signature to his
nomination paper, and as Mr. Sadler had not come
back to Victoria (from a visit to W.A.) when his
nomination paper was lodged, his election
is invalid. This raises a solemn question as
to whether Duncan Gillies and President Zeal are
members of Vic. Asssmbly and Leg. Council.
Their last nom. papers were signed by proxies.
The real boss of Victoria is Guppy Robin-
son, city editor of Melb. Age, who is the power
behind the throne of D. Syme. When Guppy
talks, David obeys, and such is the former’s in-
fluence that when he took a year’s holiday recently,
A ZOO ITEM .
David temporarily instated Robinson, jun., as city
editor. In appearance Guppy is Hop’s typical
fat man reproduced in every particular— snort,
sauat, bell-toppered, and with little grey side-
whiskers. Lots of people believe him to be the
original Robinson who thought the world would
hurry up when he hollered out “Gee ! ”
Melbourne’s sewer-bard Fitz Gibbon has
just discovered a shameful deficiency of “ morality
of character ” amongst the Yankees, and puts his
large pragmatical finger on the spot first try. This
lack of spiritual beauty is due to the fact that
“ There is no royalty in America, no nobility.”
Writes Mr. C. W. Barlow, lion. gen. sec.
of the Australian Socialist League:—
Dear Bulletin.— Re your par. (5/5/’00) with regard to
11. M. llyndman. Hyndman lias not been to South Africa
since the war started, and has since and before the com-
mencement of the war been continually on the platform in
England denouncing Chamberlain, Rhodes and 00. As
to his being “ a faddist who does not stick to things,”
about 1880 he was one of the founders of the Democratic
Federation of Great Britain. This, which has since
become the Social Democratic Federation, is the head and
front of militant socialism in G. 8., and Hyndman remains
one of its ablest members. His writings on economics,
too, will live when many of the pseudo-economists of to-
day shall have been forgotten.
As to Hyndman not having visited S’Africa
since the war started, Mr. Barlow’s information
may be correct, but all the same it was circum-
stantially set out in a newsletter from the front,
the other day, to a Sydney daily paper, that Hynd-
man was there with his gun, and that he had
found a new way of “ levelling the masses.”
“ Thorold Dalrymple ” on The Bulletin
sonneteers: —
It would be wrong to say that the making of sonnets to
order is a waste of literary effort when such an excep-
tional piece of work as Fenton’s “ Australia ” is thus pro-
duced. Indeed, with a “ continental ” theme for in-
spiration it was expected that your sonneteering geysers
would give us something to remember them by in at
least half-a-dozen cases. Yet, out of a 60-fold frenzy we
have one sonnet, and one only, which is worthy of its
source, several respectable failures, other failures' which
are distinctly not respectable, and quite a number which
are not so much failures as crimes. This verse-to-order
business is lamentable. Give the gentlemen their own
time, let them choose their own occasion and wait for
original notions to come to them fortuitously as they
dream in their garrets. As it is, nearly the whole of your
chaffering sonneteers present us with the one thought,
badly digested. They all speir fortunes for gold like
toothless beldames in the market-place. One remarks
prettily that “ From ageless sleep the island continent
woke into life another, that “ I.ong ages hidden from
the world she lay another, that “Once she was left
alone amid the sea;” another—but enough ! One only
has properly masticated the idea, and he calls her “ Last
sea-thing dredged by sailor Time from Space.” It is my
idea that he had the whole thing stewing in his mental
cauldron long before the unusual Maicenas crossed his
hand with coin.
Fitz Gib. passed up the golden tiers,
According to the story.
Said he : “ Where are the British Peers
Located here in glory ? "
“ They’re in the Lower House,” said Pete.
Poor Fitz looked disappointed.
“Igo! ” he cried. “No Heaven’s complete
Without the Lord’s anointed ! ”


For
that
Tired
Feeling
ires
SCHNAPPS.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Populai’, because it is Unequalled in Quality
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
The other day two sailors, who had run
away from their ship in Adelaide, made due north,
eking out their scanty supply of biscuits with
“ game” caught by the way. On their arrival at
a far-away-back squatter’s, the latter looked at
them suspiciously, and asked them what they had
been living on during their long tramp. “ Well,”
said one of the tars, “we had some biscuits, and
we used to kill wild sheep.”
* *
“ Von K.” : Animal chivalry (8., 7/4/’00)
seems to be a virtue (is chivalry a virtue nowa-
days ?) acquired concomitantly with domestica-
tion. Male dingoes will on occasion kill tame
sluts (even during the cestrual period). Apropos,
it is curious that in bullocks the protective in-
stinct is strong enough to bring them rushing to
the rescue of a bleating calf, whereas (here the
woman-franchiser will smile) the bull doesn’t care
for anything but his own sacred person.
“ The Lyre ” : Re animal chivalry. T have
an old cock saddle-pigeon who, when his missus is
away, makes violent love to a lady Antwerp,
recently widowed, but, when Mrs. Saddle returns,
the base deceiver enthusiastically assists to chivvy
Mrs. Antwerp out of the loft.
* * * »
A Melb. telegraph-line repairer, sent re-
cently to discover the cause of the crowing of
messages on the Adelaide to Melb. an 1 Western
district wires, found a dead flying-fox ;uspended
by the legs from the upper wire while lie lower
one was tightlv clenched between its to th.
* * * *
The Weekly Telegraph (London) has
been publishing accounts of experiences in the
Australian bush. Here’s a hunk :—“ On the way
from Paroo River to Cooper’s Creek we left the
beaten track for the sake of better grass. As we
rode over a sheltered little box-flat we came to a
tree in the centre decorated with a skeleton hanu-
iny in chains. Back-country camps are a bit
lawless, and this had probably been a victim of
Judge Lynch.” After all, Boer-land isn’t worse
libelled than our own Bakblox-—as far as the old
country press is concerned.
“‘NOBODY ASKED YOU, SIR,’ SHE SAID.”
“ Yarrum ” : The other day I asked a
South Coast dairyman how many cans of milk he
got daily. He said : “ Ten when the boys do the
milking, and twelve when the girls do it.” He
explained that cows always give their milk better
to girls. There may be something in it.
* * • *
Singleton, N.S.W., Argus has
been boasting lately over a “find” in the shape
of an “ oldest resident ” named Thomas Parmeter,
who, out of his 78 years on earth has spent 75 in
that district. I once worked on a paper in that
arcadian locality and found men and women nearly
50 years of age, who had been born there, and yet,
though Newcastle was only 50 miles away by rail,
had never seen the sea. " "
* . , .
“ J. A. W.” : We were tal king about books
when a Queensland friend just in from the Never-
Never interjected: “You don’t know what you
have to be thankful for Fve ,„e„ reading
the labels on jam-tins because they were at anv
rate print, and then a discussion on jam would
start, which would last till we turned m. .Salmon-
tms are not so much prized because there is
nothing on them, as a rule, but the picture of a
fish and the name of a canning co. ; but, then,
they lead to good fish yarns, and from fish gener-
a ly on to snakes. To pick up a Lea and Perrins
A\ oreestershire sauce-bottle with the cover intact
is luck indeed; but the acme of delight is the
arrival of a Wolfe s Schnapps bottle . sent
through post from the nearest town ; its printed
matter m the Lord-knows-how-many tongues
baying gained for it.the name of 1 lie Library.’
\V hen you come to be so hard up for literature as
to treasure a jam-tin or a sauce-bottle you 11 know
the value ol books.
t-i o. n rm ,* * , * ,
T..S. : 1 he Australian fox has not lost
any of his old-world cunning and caution. A fox
was in the habit of crossing a stone wall near my
place (in western Vic.) early every morning. One
day the wall was taken away to a stone-crusher,
and a temporary wire-fence put in its place. Next
morning I saw the fox come up to the fence, trot
carefully up and down it, and then go back. Later
on I found him crossing about a quarter-mile fur-
ther down, where the wall still remained, although
he could have walked under the wire anywhere.
• * * *
Six unmarried sisters in the backblocks of
Nelson (M.L.) province are reported to have this
season grown and harvested 24 tons of raspberries,
which they retailed at 3d. per lb., and to have
notched a further £3(l by hop-picking. This beats
small sheep-farming.
• * * *
The Merton (Vic.) Wild Dog Association
lias been paying £2 10s. for each full-grown wild-
dog destroyed within the area of the association.
Better than shooting Boers !
* * * •
Dear Bulletin. —lsn’t the present N.S. VY.
Public-school system of making a child attend
school 70 days in half a year responsible for the
fact that so many country “kids” can hardly
read or write ? The cocky sends his youngsters to
do the 70 (or even the 140 days for the year)
straight off, and keeps them at home for the rest
of the time; so that when the “kid” goes to
school again it has forgotten so much that it ha ?
practically to make a fresh start, and thus never
gets educationally ahead. If children were sent
to school 15 days in each month they would have
a show. —Synd.
« * * *
Curious that, though Parliament and
public are always being assured that pastoral pur-
suits nowadays mean insolvency, it is always the
seasoned squatter who buys whatever runs change
hands at auction. True, prices have been low
lately, and perhaps the old squatters have been
“ averaging.” Ediacara, of 400 odd square miles,
once reckoned among the best of Northern S. A.
squattages, has just been taken, with its 5000
sheep and improvements, for £3126.
“ W.J.” : That recent ploughing skuich
in The Bulletin was misleading about our agri-
cultural methods. I don’t refer to the woman
plough-women are too common —but to the plough.
Who ever saw a “single-furrow” out-back? I'oo
much like a good season, or other impossibility,
after our huge experience of stump bounders and
exterminators, with seven or eight horses to them.
In the old days, on Kararaburn
station (N.S.W.) was—this is a chest-
nut —a manager familiarly known as
“Jacky” Dow, to whom all the
tramps in the province used to make,
because lie had a barracks built
especially for them, where they could
remain one night and replenish their
tucker-bags next morning. One day a
swaggie came and asked for work.
“Any kind of work, Mr. Dow; not
partikler, any kind of tiddly-winkin’
work, you know.” “Ah,” said Jacky,
“just so, my man, just so. Well, you
see that grindstone over there ; you go
and keep turning that till I come
back, my man.” The follow started,
and turned and turned, every now
and again lifting expectant eyes
towards the house, but Jacky was
in a hack skillion all this time watch-
ing him. Swaggie kept on turning,
every now and then knocking off to
walk round the grindstone, look at it,
then up at the house, then more turn-
ing. At last, realising that he had
been “ had,” he went up to the house.
Jacky came out and Swaggie com-
menced. “ What do yer mean by
keepin’ me turnin’ that —' grind-
stone like that?” “ Well, my man,
you said you wanted work, you
know—and you yot it.” Another
time Jacky had a fellow emptying a
cask of water with a spoon, and,
when ho finished, Jacky coolly told
him to “put it back now, my man.”
* * *
“ R. W.” : Let me tell “ Maori-
hinder” (8., 14/4/’00) that farmers
on the Northern (N.S.W.) rivers and
iti Tumut district do not consider they
have had a good crop unless they get
80 or 90 bushels of maize to the acre—and the
other cereals also give very high averages.
S. Aus. Police-Commissioner was lately
urged to put down the supply of liquor to the
blacks in their various camps, especially on the
Murray ; hut the Com. got home heavily on the
busy-bodies with the statement that if they
wouldn’t form mission stations alongside town-
ships, the work of the police would be a lot easier.
“ Patpnie,” who was sent to gaol last week,” one
officer reported, “was a teacher at the camp, and
a Bible reader.” The same officer, illustrating
some of the difficulties of the police, mentioned
that one of the blackfellows is married to a white
woman, who buys the stuff—they drink crude
wine mostly—and whacks it with her lord. Still,
the lord is a black, even if he is her husband; so
being caught lately in the act of handing over a
flagon to him she was gaoled for a month. Which
shows that it isn’t all wine and skittles to be a
blackfellow’s wife.
Lately, when a young Murray Mouth black-
fellow went the usual way to work to get a gin
and got her, the good people of those parts waited
upon the couple at their mia-mia and told them
how sinful it was to live like that. Lucy didn’t
quite grasp the sinfulness of it; but when it was
explained that Christian marriage meant wedding-
cake, she said she would take any quantity of it.
They took over a proper parson and some cake to
the camp next day, and were met with—“ Oh, you
come too soon. My ole man wants his grub ’fore
he get married.” So the wedding-party had to
wait while Lucy cooked the old man’s fish and
fowl; and then he made an honest woman of her
while she eyed the cake and tried to reach it with
her toes. Afterwards she was anxious to know
whether it would be repeated after every picca-
ninny.
* * * *
“ Gobung ” : We have a cat that pretty
well lives on the snakes she catches. Now and
SOME MEW DON'T WANT WORK.
IRATE TRUTON : “ Vant vork, vat? I just vork
three veeks for four bobs a veek; and vhen I
vant my cheque he say hard up. Vant me
take it out mit PIEMELONS! I vouldn’t like to
call him der name vot I got in me moudt .”
again she brings home a small live one, for her
kitten to cut it# teeth on.
“ L.S.” : In answer to “ S.” (B. 28/4/’00).
It won d be a very hot day indeed when a man
could un bunny down. Tlie average lady-rabbit
could rear a family while the smart man was
chasing her—in the open. The two-legged animal
would go grey in the attempt. I have seen fox-
terriers coursing, but with bunnies that had been
cooped-up for weeks, some of which wouldn’t run
at all. [Nevertheless, it’s true that a smart
pedestrian can run even a hare down, if there’s
just snow enough to indicate the track.—Ed. B.]
* * • *
“ Alpar ” : Just before Referendum-time,
when I was travelling by rail to Bourke, a couple
of Goodooga men got in, and, after a hit, one
pulled out an elector’s right. 1 ventured to
roundaboutly ask what way he was going to
vote, and he looked hard at me. “No, yer don’t,
mister,” lie said. “ How do I know but What you
are one of these blokes as is puttin' up ? ”
• * • *
“ Yar.” : “ M‘Cooey ” (8., 23/4, ’CO) says,
“ bottle-ticks kill dogs, calves,
&c.” I say they don’t, ami 1
know. “ Mac.” has described the f
b.-t. correctly ; but he must not
let a bushman hear him say it
kills anything. Evidently he
means the other little fellow t ! at
“ Oanip ” knows.
* * *
“ A.J.H.’’ : Re couua tile
power of snakes, “Dubbo ” (lb,
14/4/’00): In Matabeleland, in
’O7, 1 one day ran a brown
Momlm about 4ft. long into a
hole, from which about bin. of
his tail stuck out. I caught hold
of the tail with my left hand,
having in the right a rock ready
to bash him as he came away.
Pulled pretty hard without,
effect, till suddenly he came
with a jerk, arid I made a wild
swoop with the rock —at no-
thing. For I had pulled him
in two at about 15in. from tip of
tail.
“A.Y.”: Re young “porcu-
pine” (B. 14/4/’00): A friend, some
time since, gave me one, which must
have been very young indeed, as there
was no sign of quills and the eyes were not opened.
It was taken from a burrow with its mother, which
died next day. The young one was very fat,
which was why it lived a fortnight, as I could not
get it to eat anything. By that time the quii.s
were making an appearance.
• » • »
“A. A. A.” : t- e par. (5 5 ’Oil) about gues-
sing the weight of a beast. At recent Maitland
show the bullock in the competition scaled
lOOOllbs. One person guessed the exact weight to
the Alb., another 10011 b., three more 10001 b., and
another 0091 b.
Dear Bulletin, —I have a bitch—half
Gordon setter and half collie —who gives proof of
a spiritual side to her nature. One day I set her
on to a cow that had strayed into the garden.
Presently there was a yelp of pain, and the slut
came hopping back on three legs, evidently suf-
fering much agony. One of her feet had been
trodden on by the cow. My grief was demonstra-
tive, but in the middle of my caresses she suddenly
ceased yelping, and, although tears were running
down her muzzle, began to frisk on three legs, gave
some would-be joyous but falsetto barks, and fled
to the stable. I followed and looked through a
knot-hole. The dog was limping about moaning,
but the moment I went in the paw was lowered
and she again began to act “ I’m not hurt.” Now,
that dog felt my pain more than her own. To
save my feelings she disguised her’s. —A.C.O.
“ Scotty the Wrinkler the
P.” (8., 28/4/ 00) want .to d be an
barriers of the Natural Kggd g stickin g in
out-Darwmed Darwin . Vo there is a
mv condensed milk prove ,£‘
"f canuvocoua Jncdea, 1 J th(> ib
”
:.^ tebl ll”L"r,t^ t rin°°Sd combustion,
SSelitt" KbS MeteoroUtee have been
absorbed bv‘stars, therefore worW|^t
worlds. thSnfimte, or
ly, sans blaspheme, uoa, or *
Nature, eats the lot of us!
less, the fact is 'veU-establrshed that m
tain plants assimilate the bodies ot in
sects.] . *
“Far”: Be fish-cannibalism. A
friend who kept goldfish several^
fishes andsup 1 'osed was qmetly
“hS
stump of the
old one plainly visible.
* * *
“CMB”: Re box-trees minus their
bark (‘ ‘ Wils,” 8., 12/5/’00). The following may
not only explain the mystery, but be of service to
some scientific electrician. In Wellington dis-
trict (N.S.W.), where there are no galali parrots, 1
was startled during a dry thunderstorm by a
blinding flash of lightning immediately followed
by a deafening peal of thunder, and guessed scime-
tliing was struck in the vicinity. Next .day 1
noticed near the house a yellow box-tree with its
bark stripped entirely off one side though the
wood was not splintered, and . the sap was
scarcely dry. After vainly searching some tune
for the missing bark, found it strewn all around
but so finely shredded up as to be almost invisible
among the grass.
* * * *
“ Broadaxe ” : At the Isis (Q.) I M " i s
working up an ironbark that had been felled for
sometime. I. had knocked off the bark, cut a
length, and was having a spell, when I noticed a
peculiar looking fly prospecting the grub-holes. It
was black, about 5-Bm. long, and slender, with a
tail as long as itself, conqiosod of three sections,
and with a droop at the end. After going partly
down several grub-holes it at last found one that
suited, and dropping its tail thereinto, it backed
like a draught-horse and began to screw its
latter-end round as if trying to work it round the
grub. Next it started to pull, and I took hold of
it to give it a lift which it didn’t like, for it
emitted a distinctly audible squeak. 1 let go, and
it backed into the hole again, and after screwing
as before got another pull on. But just then a
friendly cloud came along, and 1 took advantage
of the shade to do a bit more work.
* « * •
There is a Monaro (N.S.W.) squatter who
doesn’t set his shearers to work in the ordinary
.vay by the ringing of a bell. At shearing time
HE’D GOT ’EM!
MURPHY : “ They tell me Maloney do have the
plague , an’ they've took in' um to Gladesville.”
CASSIDY: " No! it's a rat Maloney do have; an’
it’s HIM that was the plague to his woife. Last
week he t'ounht he teas a cockroach, an’ he guv
the ould woman a divil of a batin’ bekase he
cuddn’t squaze himsilf into the sugar-basin.”
the usual way of putting the men to work is—when
the men assemble on the board he says: “Now
thin, min whin I sez ‘dart,’ let ye dart; and if
any of ye dart before I sez dart, don’t let ye come
back and dart agin.”
* * *
“W.M.F.”: Have frequently witnessed
the “ rain-making ” of different Queensland tribes,
but have never heard of anything like what is
described by “Nell Cook” (B. 4/4 ’00). On the
border the ceremony is very peculiar. Generally
an old chief, accompanied by his gin and a few
followers, makes for the most available river or
creek, into which he wades up to his middle, and
sets to splashing the water about with a big stick,
If the cods (had it not been cloudy the excur-
sion wouldn’t have been made) are slow in work-
ing up the chief conies out, and starts heaving
boulders into the water.


All Diamonds.
£lO 10s.
Choice
Diamonds.
£5 ss.
Exquisite White
Pearls. £5 53.
Superb
Diamonds.
£5 5s
Solid Heavy 18ct.
Gold, £2 28.
EMBLEMS
always
Fascinate. A circle : the emblem of eternal-hence the giving of rings,
makers' profit; we mount the loose gems, and so save the mounters’
LONDON PRICES.
We make Rings, and thus save the
profit. WE SELL FOR CASH AT
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney.
FAIRFAX # ROBERTS, 23 hunter street.
It Is An Easy Thing
To make a mistake when choosing a remedy for
liver disease unless you allow yourself to be guided
by others’ experience.
Thousands of homes have been brightened, and
faces made beaming with health and happiness,
through using Warner’s Safe Cure for Liver and
Kidney Disease. . .
No experiment. Others before you, victims of
liver disease, with its well-known symptoms of
biliousness, pain in the right side or under the
shoulder-blade, flatulency, nausea, and giddiness,
have already proved its value.
If your liver is complaining, try it. You, too,
will praise it.
Mr. F. E. A. Dickson, pictorial and adver-
tising signwriter, Stewart-street, Dunedin, writes:
“ Warner’s Safe Cure restored me to health after
years of suffering with disordered liver and
kidneys. For several years I was subject to
violent pains in the stomach after eating, and also
pains under the shoulder-blades. At times I
threw up the food taken quite undigested, and
eventually the disease settled in my kidneys. Al-
though I tried a variety of remedies, I received no
benefit. I had almost given up hopes of ever
getting well again, when I commenced the use of
Warner’s Safe Cure and Safe Pills. They soon
brought relief, and after using a few bottles I was
quite restored to health.”
K uppers Elberfeld Lager.
A bushranger, killed in a fight with the
police, is buried where he fell at Lone Gully,
S,A It is this incident which •‘Rolf Boldre-
wood” uses as the death scene of Starlight in
“Robbery Under Arms.” A few years back a
strange lady appeared at Broken Hill, engaged
masons, and had the lonely grave covered with a
plain marble slab, and enclosed with stone sur-
mounted with a neat iron railing. Then she dis-
appeared as mysteriously as she came.
♦ * * *
“T.G.F.’ : : Can any of your readers tell
me how the white opossum is bred, and why two
“FAT TOMMY,” of Tibooburra., N.S.W.; 21
yearn of age, 25st. weight. Supposed to be Aus-
tralia’s fattest aborigine.
Photo., Will. Godson.
white animals fail to produce white young ? Also,
is it possible to cross the ordinary ’possum with the
flying-squirrel ? [The white ’possum is probably
an albino, and albinism, being an individual de-
fect of pigmentation, does not seem to be trans-
missible to offspring. The flying-squirrel is not,
as “T.G.F.” seems to think, a variety of ’possum.
The species (Petaurus) is quite distinct, and a cross
would therefore be extremely improbable.—Ed. 13.]
* * * #
“T.G.”: On an out-back Barwon station
is a full-blooded aboriginal woman with a milky-
white complexion—as far as lam aware the only
known N.H.W. aboriginal albino. She is about
40 years old, has never married, and is a close
friend of the boundary-rider’s wife. This gin
comes of the almost extinct Naroo tribe, and is
known as “ Worra Wirra,” or “White Devil.”
At Ellengerah Station-, near Warren, GO years
ago, there lived the only other albino aboriginal I
have heard of. It is a tradition among the Terra-
lnungamiue blacks that this albino’s mother was
chased by a white emu some time before the freak’s
birth.
« • * *
Harry Stockdale writes :
A very striking physical peculiarity of the wild Aus-
tralian black is the power and flexibility of the “ big toe."
This is used in many ways as easily as a thumb and in
some respects more so. In the climbing of large trees a
notch is hacked out with the tomahawk about an inch
deep, and from 3 to 4in. wide, and into this is inserted
the big toe, which has then to support the whole weight
and balance of the body until another has been cut at a
different angle, and from 4 to sin. higher up for the sup-
port of the other foot. This is necessarily slow and
laborious work, sometimes as many as 20 cuts having to
be made before a friendly branch is reached, The greatest
strain occurs in the effort to insert the toe of the opposite
foot in the higher notch ; during this and the cutting of
the notches the body of the man appears to veritably
cling to the tree. Yet I have never known a native to
lose his hold either from fear or from a giving-way of the
toe. It is marvellous how a single toe can support such a
weight under such difficulties, but the development of
tlie digit is of course much greater than with a European.
ls.v the aid of the great toe also, a black, whilst standing
perfectly erect, can deftly pick up from the ground a pin,
a knife, a stone, &c., and, so slyly as to escape detection,
pass the article into his hand. In stealing upon an
enemy or upon game, a black will crawl upon his hands
and knees or on his stomach, his “ billetta ” or spear-
thrower in his hand, but the long deadly spear held and
dragged between the big and second toes until he gets
close enough to throw it. In making boomerangs and
other weapons also the two great toes are employed to
hold the article steady to be worked upon with the
hands.
* * • *
“ Chas. J.” :In reply to “ J.M.R. (I>-,
5 5 ’00). John Gaggin, in his recent boo.*,
“Among the Man-Eaters,” writes:—“. • • I
once gave some ’gator’s eggs to a lady, who put
them in a box in her bedroom and forgot all about
them, but some 10 days afterwards, hearing a
grunting in the box, she opened it, and out came
half-a-dozen young ’gators open - mouthed !
Young ’gators are about six or seven inches long
when born, and it is a puzzle how such big things
come out of such a small egg.” “Alligators (in
X.Q.),” Gaggin further writes, in effect, “make
their nests as the birds, in sheltered places on
banks of rivers, and dark, silent lagoons. Ihe
eggs, which are about the size and shape of a
(luck’s, but rougher in the shell, are laid in mounds
of clayey soil and hush debris—2oo to .300 in each
nest—the mound being from three to four feet
high by about three square at the base. ... Ihe
eggs seem to hatch without external heat, but I
cannot sav in what period. The parents remain
in the neighborhood until the young are born, and
the loving father eats any of bis children lie can
catch.”
* * * *
“ Les. ().” : Re animals drinking salt-
water at Broadmount, Q. (“V.,” 8., 12/5, 00).
Have seen cattle drink the salt-water of George's
River, eight miles below Liverpool (N.S. \\.)
dam. This was during dry-time last year, when
the water was so salty that sole, whiting, flathead,
and jewfish were plentiful within three miles of
Liverpool. The cattle have regular tracks to the
water, and wade in knee-deep. No other per-
manent water on the estate.
“Hecate”: In 1854 Mi.ska Hauser, an
old-time Hungarian violinist of renown, visited
Sydney, and contributed to Chambers’s Journal
of 18th Aug., 1855, a particularly lively account of
his exp ‘riences. He mentions a gambling-house
which gave free dinner-parties twice a week, and,
after describing the citizens as being abandoned to
mammon-worship and gambling in its lowest
form, this veracious chronicler proceeds :
A few days after my arrival I paid my visits to the dif-
ferent editors of Sydney. At my first call I came to a
palace-like house, the ground floor occupied for the print-
ing office. On the first floor, among other advertisements,
1 found a tablet informing visitors that the editor cannot
be spoken with unless paid for his valuable time ; accord-
ingly, everybody, without exception, is advised to buy a
ticket of admission at the door of the waiting-room
—one hour costing 10s., half-an-hour 65., fifteen
minutes 3s. Such were the contents of this singu-
lar price-current of time. I went into the wait-
ing-room, and buying from the Australian negro in
red livery an hour of his master’s time, I entered the par-
lor with a strong feeling of curiosity. The editor received
me in a very unprepossessing and sluggish manner. “You
are an artist, and come from Europe to make money ? ”
said ho in a not very friendly tone. But when lie under-
stood that I had come from South America and California
his face lighted up and his voice became less abrupt, lie
ask d me, without longer preface, what pecuniary sacri-
fice I was ready to make in order to be puffed by his
paper. I was startled by this bluntness, and replied that,
in case of success, 1 would surely give him material proofs
of my gratitude ; but he did not find my answer precise
enough, and requested me to come at once to a definite
understanding, and to pay a certain sum, without which,
according to him, it might be impossible for me to
succeed. Telling him that I wished to adjourn
the conference, as 1 could not at once come
to a decision, I left this temple of editorial
integrity and public spirit. The other editors were less
rapacious and more friendly : they gave me, indeed, the
best advice about iny concerts. ... I could not feel
sympathy with the population of Sydney, and did not
expect to meet with any from them. Everybody here
being immersed in the cares of profit and loss is coid and
reserved, and in society dull and stupid. Political meet-
ings alone are apt to draw out their eloquence, and
nothing but drunken revels and cock-fights amuse them.
How could we expect a taste for the fine arts in such a
state of society ?
The Australian negro in red livery is distinctly
good. And was it Dr. West or Dr. Garran who
sat for what is obviously intended to be a portrait
of the editor of S.M. Herald? This article was
designed to be the first of the series, but, in the
issue of Chambers’s Journal of the 22nd of tho
following Sept., the editor publishes a note, in
which he says :
The assertions have been flatly contradicted by so many
respectable persons, that, having' no knowledge of the
subject ourselves, we hasten to withdraw from Mr.
Hauser’s statements any support they may be supposed
THRIFT.
GRIMALKIN (to Tomkins): “I think it’s simply sinful —I call it eating money!"
to derive from the character of this journal. We advise
0 rca ders to regard the paper, for the present, as
merely an amusing and vivacious sketch, and look to
other sources for solid information touching the manners
and morals of the capital of N S. Wales,
So nothing further from the pen of the satirical
tiddler appeared in the sedate Scottish periodical,
In the fifties any resident of Europe thought he
could say what he chose about Australia without
danger of being found out. Ihe sketch referred
to, from which only a brief extract has been given,
is altogether a fine example of thefacilecircum-
stantiahty with which some men can lie. Hauser
did very well in Australasia, but he had the w s-
cknn not to repeat Ins visit. Henry, the
operatic tenor, was once hissed off the stage ot
Melb. Royal for the comparatively trivial offence
of having written in a chatty private letter to a
friend in’Frisco that the MeWne people were
nearly all blawsted English.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A a nohcp, will hi' taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Aa me and address mast appear on .1/ .S'.
Xo liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
han lel in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Jacques: “ Nothing to do but curse tlie flies or
write poetry.’ Better keep on cursing the flies'....
A orky . Offer to “ talk us dumb on the Boer or any other
question in five minutes for £5 aside ” received. Right!
We ll take you on ; man and money at the Dog and Duck !
....J. Scan. (Cape Town): Thanks ; hut, opposed as we
are to senseless Jingoism, we are no less averse to an
equally senseless raking-up of old national animosities.
... Ken : Misquoted. What Swift said was—“ He that
giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord. If you like the
security, down with your dust! ” (2) It may, as you say,
be “ solemn fact,” but it mustn’t look such a lie as it pro-
bably is. See ?—8.J.0.8. : Mustn’t tread on people’s
very tenderest religious toes J.A.H. : “It will all be
the same in 100 years.” So we killed your alleged poem.
... .Sphingos : Good story-material ; but it isn't a story.
And did you ever read George Moore’s “ -Modern Lover ” ?
....C.W.S. : After all, life’s a mere gamble, anywhere.
As to the plague in Sydney, np-to-date it’s two-to-one you
don’t die if you get it, and hundreds to one that you
never get it at a 11... .T.E.T. : Admirable- to wit :
....James Drake: By clause 125 of Commonwealth Bill
the Federal Parliament may fix the seat of Govt, where it
chooses in N.S. Wales, hut not less than 100 miles from
Sydney. N.S.W. Govt, has nothing to do with it, and the
peregrinating site - commission is mostly bunkum....
O.P.L. : Tiik Bulletin didn’t “fall in” over the Dean-
case. It never said Dean was innocent; it merely said he
hadn’t been fairly tried, and that he had been convicted
on absurd evidence. For instance, a part of the Crown
case as submitted to the jury was that strychnine was an
antidote to arsenic....ll.L.N. : Not enough story in it
Roxana (New 1C.): Story about a W'immera station where
“ ages ago a beautiful drive led up to the front of the
house,” and the ecstatic feeling you had when “ treading
its stately halls,” firmly declined... .T.G.F. (Syd.) : “Tale
of S. Grave” fluently commonplace Harold S. : Well
written, but we object to the obstetrics in it O.J. :
Good enough—if original. Tiik Bulletin is always more
or less suspicious of the bond-fidex of meritorious contri-
butions from a new and unknown writer, especially when
there is an utter absence of Australian color. Please give
your assurance as to authorship.... J.O. (M.L.): You say :
“He was Te Kooti’s chief priest and wizard.” When this
scribe was on visiting terms with Te Kooti, that warrior
was his own high priest and wizard ; he took darned fine
care that no one else monkeyed with the necro-
mancing end of the show, which was the secret
of his influence. His comparatively mean origin would
have probably barred him from military leadership had be
not mixed his elective chieftainship with a sort of Haii-hau
pope-ship A.G.W. : All quite off Tiik Bulletin’s heat
Henry F. : Iv. good in spots, but over-long for interest.
Also, you have patently attempted to give it the effect of
actual experience, and have just failed to do 50... .C.W. :
And yet sailors won’t go in a ship without rats.. ..Lot/. :
Yes, it is a most excellent office, and subject to Govern-
ment audit... .R.J.0.8. : Here printed years ago.. .. R.A.:
“ Handi.” ver,v well done, but its appeal is not general
enough to pre-empt the necessary space... .Charles W.:
It might easily' he malicious... .Chusero : Some pretty
ideas, but no strength or distinctive quality C.M.B. :
To hand Bluey: Verse not up to much Sandy:
Nothing in those. - No “ rules,” except to be bright and
terse... .Zebra : Has some merit of but would
need too much Ration.. i^°\v^. v but’not
. .'.A.A.Fraud” very mildly meritor-
j ous Anti-Humbug: No thanks R. 8.: Want more
practice—about 300 years more War Loot: Dropped.
Gobung: Not narrow enough P. : Bit too far
away C.M.B. : “Then dash aside conflicting
thoughts,” you dashed. And we Dashed L.T1.1. .
SUa' rab “dea*s wortf but your
style too loose . ..W.M.F.: Last two look promising
ALT.: Will use!.. .E.A.8.: Too one-sided... .Chusero :
“ When you toutoh me are you sining? ” Yes, if there s
any rectitude in orthography, we sin shaniefully
AI.L.A. : Your dullness is like the darkness of Egypt
A F • That’s an easy question. Delirxum-tremens may
come on while a patient is drinking, but it is more likely
to come on when he cuts short a heavy spree Afoonbie :
Thanks G.B. : That statement about the 2s. margin
looks very risky C.G.: No one named “W. Burton ”
has authority to represent YHB BiaLimx in Western
ej'es'autlrf and absolutely decline
to even look at matter written on “ flimsy.”.... Kate R. :
No, he never even thought of becoming one Trotter:
Bulletin isn’t taking any bunyip : The Bemm : Will
print Alan : A fine simplicity. Absolutely original.—
Rougemontll.: A bit ponderous.. A.G.A.: Excellent...
Not S j£de . . j.'s.A.T.':
Can’t see much grievance. Would you have “ given the
The late CHARLES GODFREY, his wife
and son.
applicants a drink”—with the ratepayers’ money?
A.D.lt. : Motive stale and treatment tiresome.... Mr. Will
Carter, of Addons', N.S.W. (himself a writer of verse)
would like it notified that he is not the “ William Carter ”
who some time back sent The Bulletin, as original, some
versus of Tom Moore’s R.J.G.: Old 80-Peep:
Iguana perjury ancient U.G.S. (St. P.): Try John
Sands or Oeo. Robertson and Co., Sydney.... W.M. :T. K.
Young, late President of the Institute of Actuaries and
author of “ Centenarians,” declares that the records of
Life Co.’s and the English Govt, annuities have never
shown any example of the. prolongation of human life
beyond 106 years at the utmost Done : Not a bad sort
of thing, but not the sort of thing we want... .Broker :
Worth par. only—and that par. already written.... Rex :
More forcibly put already... .E.L.0.” : The white hag is
not necessarily the emblem of “ peace and surrender.”
The white Hag only means “ want to communicate.”
All that “Banjo” Paterson has said re
the failure of the British cavalry “ charge ” in
South Africa is endorsed by a soldier correspond-
ent for London D.T. “Banjo” refers to the so-
called charge of the toffy Lifeguards and Lancers
as an astounding fraud—an awful satire on the
pictures that newspaper artists turn out. The
Boers are never in the least danger of being over-
taken by the heavy men on weary geo-gees who
make a show of resolve to get among them and
“cut them up.” Modern rifles in the hands of
marksmen have blown certain gory old warfare
rules to smithereens, and the most shattered rule
of all is the rule of converting retreats into routs
by means of thunderous cavalry charges. The
picture which shows a concerted rush of slashing
routers on fiery steeds was not always untrue. I n
the days when armies advanced in close order to
within 100 yards of one another, and fought until
one army or other was beaten all along the 1 ine, the
victorious side would send forth a reserve body of
mounted sabres and spearsmen to take gruesome
liberties with the enemy's rearguard. But those
days are not now. The Hussars impressed
“Banjo” when he saw them riding out of camp.
Their disciplined canter suggested great possi-
bilities of destructive power. Their “charge”
across the veldt at the close of a tiring day was a
hopeless failure. The Boers leisurely potted a
few of them from afar, so they picked up their
fallen comrades and retired. That’s how “Banjo”
put the case. The London Daily Telegraph
critic, writing as an eye-witness of Buller’s ad-
vance to Ladysmith, says :
Against the Mauser or the Lee-Metford nothing but
infantry can prevail ... It is almost certain that our
cavalry will have to be differently trained, at all events
armed with a long rifle. The day of “ shock ’ action is
practically over. ... In a great measure our cavalry
officers are to blame ; they are behind the times. They
must change their system, I think, if they are to meet an
army furnished with mounted infantry or very mobile
troops. The rifle must he carried, and if the jingle and
the swagger disappear -and very cheap swagger it is 've
shall see in their places soldiers .worthy to take their
places beside the infantry of the Line.
If the Boers have brought discredit upon the
pomp and circumstance of Household Brigades
and other “crack” institutions, the world owes a
great debt of gratitude to those God-fearing cam-
paigners. War emanates largely from swaggah.
The Age of Chivalry (in armor) was a period of
exaggerated martial swaggah. I rom mail-clad
knights we have come down to the heavy dragoon
officahs whose influence—political, social, pictorial
—makes directly and indirectly for “ Wall. ”
Now that those expensive aristocrats of the Ser-
vice are known to he behind the times they will
tend to bring Wah into ridicule. And ridicule is
a great reformer.
Where the cross roads meet
There was hurrying feet
Then a shriek and a heavy' groan,
And the suicide’s sprite
In the dead of night
Sepuchrally rattles each bone.
R.I.D. : Still more admirable !
In the house for the dead he lay
On a cruel slab of stone
That dear beloved form
To be thus left quite alone.


“ Either rats are getting scarcer or the sixpenny bonus is losing its
charm. The return for yesterday showed a considerable decline, only 575
being brought in. One of this number came from Government House,
and in accordance with his Excellency’s wish was sent on to the Health
Department Laboratory for examination. It was, however, found to be
quite free from plague." —Sydney daily. May 11. —-
Doubtless this rat had got in by the blue ticket entrance.
"Wellington,
The Agent-General has wired to
the Premier, under date May 15 :
i Mr. Chamberlain, in his speech
0 n the Australian Commonwealth
Bill yesterday, made eloquent re-
ference to New Zealand's great
display of affection for the mother
country and her services in South
Africa", and the warm regard felt
by the mother country for
New Zealand in return.
/ His words were loudly
cheered
SKETCH BY HOP’S UNDERSTUDY.
“ London, Tuesday Aftermxfti.— President Kruger having consulted a Dutch
seer as to the course «f the war and the immediate fate of himself and the j.rans-
vaal, the seer prophesied that peace would be proclaimed in the month of June, &n
that the President (Kruger) would die in three months from date.
Kruger . “ But I got a distinct mandate from the Powers Above to go on with
this war.” B
Dutch Seer ; “ Then the Powers Above must have been pulling ycur leg.
BIRTHDAY honors.
Lord Salisbury : “ Look here, Joe, what about birthday
, j onors this year ' This African war will absorb about all
Sk‘“” £,irTn^,„ , ”T lu ™ "“<* *“ 1 “bo-t those i o“"
Ly ”’ S “' Mi ‘ J ° r tVC? ' “ d *" The,?,
CJueeS iSr, » ’ ll J “ ’ " ' ll *» -b-. W •«. each . of the
i A SUITABLE PLACE, TOO.
•Alderman (speaking of certain sanitary agitations)
“ Hi don’t believe in these citizens’ committees.
Hi think all the carba<re should be left .
\ in the hands of the aider- j
men.” (Hear, hear.) f
r Pr z
lawfully detaining said £ t retUm t 0 this office ‘ Al O' one foqnd £
takes the savings°of the list 70 years 10 ful * extent of tile if it
(Signed) /4> .
CARTOONLETS.


the RELIEF of MAFEKHft.
STOCK EXCHAKGE PREPARATIONS.
Ir. connection-*.tbvw. undertaken, by
•Styled *jjsJs£ e ln the event of Mnfc-
■the Stcdjt chairman to-day
kins being _f ; f ' V( . rno on on tote" ‘bey
Sitid lh3t - teneonsirntlon addresses would
•make this i6r . Mr Purves. Q C-.
be given by I‘the Mayor
he. too, would
t probably b"" 1 ' ' |
. The membership of The Melbourne
Ttung Men’s Christian Association Is
Increasing by leaps and bounds, and j&-.
oentiv several prominent public men
have joined the Institution,' amongst them
being the Bishop of Melbourne (Dr Ooe),
the Moderator of the Presbyterian
Church. (Rev. W. C. Wallace), the Rev.
Dr Sevan, and the Rev. Professor Mac-
V,d°oald,'.of Ormond College. -Over 300
Vnew members have been enrolled during
the Dast 18 months. ‘ ' * V
i i X
%
\y£°\\ %
■"\ 'VV i.\
/ \\V* v VVv*
/ % <
*y vsv*V, % ;
/
/ Uv4;-
X > v
■■
■ r
fe*&v*£r iwrS .cr"
pA .f 4 ■
,^«iW.'
01/k /\f j’tykyts
£c\Jocfer B.
170 rooty lef'f’ for''
jty elect
-to 17
t t> 1 c 'f s *' C^uj'Ha.v
\ y j
\ Ljiye.t) I .
, j ALBURY. TnesHlnyt-
Sf a lengthy discussion tdoV place at the
"meeting of the'committed of the Albmy
HoMiital last evening, when rr W.tr
/ read from the president, of the \\ "
' Christian TcmpernDce Union .on
Ltion of permitting religion. aetvme. to be
SJiSSe'Sfvii oC 3» . undenominational ,
fb.uncler, /
/ j
/ Svjs \ >7*4 "1 tje Cl/oiK
:—*-ftw Ww‘ •' Vrtif -
X—? IokI" ,« mi;’ 1
8\ Conclude vMg |ife3fes
?C
f. lilil;
f IpBI
I \f < liPiisisl
J u JgA'(jA^
V> We*? n
n't
*f4w4teU \
1 \ i
o| ■ < '\'| ill
J J
/
I 'WJIWi-'fa W*V mm
Cro«j - fyic- ie .
We'Hes't' \*i HiSSory 0
) ktfo \ — ,r Ker UljWr*ou<rV (W sW
lust' f^ol>€m«^sJr<ffort^—-;
) S^l.ftoy;/o i Jed qe, 4
yom>
MELBOURNIANA.


/
N
SAUNDERS
817 CEORGES T
SYDNEY
815
F=2
m
/
A. SAUNDERS.
Reliable LEVERS. “ The Challenge,” 15s ; Un-
rivalled, 20s. ; Pure Silver, 355. (All guaranteed.)
I=£!=^€
Soiiu uum cmam jingle or UuuineJ x,'A 108,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold,
£5 10s, £O, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure
Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated book.
Gold 2 Birds, Chain and Heart.
10s, small 8s (id.
Full Size
Gold Brooch, 5s Od. Special value.
A. SAUNDERS.
London Levers 255, Pure Silver £2 ss. Hunting
Oases, £2 10s, £3. Written guarantee.
Send for Price List.
> Q
A. SAUNDERS.
NewOold 2-Rar Pearl Set and Red Stone Scroll
AMY
Aa.i ~i.ne or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra strong, 10s.
15c. Gold 15s ; 18c. Gold 20s. Silver 3s 6d.
Gold Good Luck and Bird Brooch, 10s 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Wish Bone and Pearl and Turquoise
Bee, 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
sfTi..
e 'Tr®
Gold 3-Bar and Red Stone Brooch, 15s.
Very Neat.
FRONT STUDS. 9c. Gold, 8s 6d and lus.
3 Front, 15c. Gold, 12s 6d and 15s.
Send for List.
A. KAUMJfilto (AultMT).
New Model W»eerbury, f-pl*te, Chronometer
Balance, Jewelled, 16s 6d ; Silver, 35s ; Gold,
£2 15s. Thcsj Prices are Specially Reduced.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold New Secret Name Brooch, 8 Diamonds,
£3 ; Diamond and 2 Rubies, £2 10s ; Cheaper
St i le. 265. Any Name FRfiiJL
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered 16c. Gold Key, He >rt & Ivy Brooch,
3,js ; 18c. Gold, £2 ss. The Very Latest.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered 9c. Gold Amethyst Brooch,
17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 80s ; 18c. Gold, 85s.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
15c. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies, with
Ivy Leaves, 255. Very Cheap.
A. SAUiNDERS.
Latest Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and
Heart Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
15c. Gold Wish Bone Forget-me-not
Brooch, 15s. Special Value.
CHARM.
Gold Mizpah, -la.
CHARM.
Gold, Amethyst,
and Pearls, 15s 6d;
15c. Gold, 255.
Latest Design.
A. SAUNDEFS.
Gold Dinna For fret
Brooch, 10s fid. Our
own
Design.
A. SAUNDERS
Gold Charm, 10s.
Very Latest.
CHARM.
Gold Wish Bone
and Heart or
Horseshoe, 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Gold, with
Enamelled Post
Office, 10s.
Special Reduced
Gold Trilby Rings,
5s 6d ; with Ame-
thyst, 7s 6d ; with-
out Chain, 3s 6d.
Gold Bell and Chains,
4s 6d 3s 6d 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDKJS.
S 'ECIAL MADE HOTHLRUAif T,EVFR3 r
'ua Cap. £3 10s : Extra Jewelled Cm-wimiintter
Balance, £4 10s ; Keyless Full Cap, £>i.
Send for 1900 List. All Guaranteed.
A. fciAc*. v Auti\T).
Ladies’ Waterliury Watch, Keyless,
lis 6d ; Pure Silver, 30s ; Gold, £2 15s.
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Keyless Waltham, 3-plate, Patent Cases,
£4 4s ■ 14c eold, £5 5s ; Extra Quality, £/ 10s,
£lO 18c Gold. £l2 10s. Solid Silver, £2 10s,
£ 3 > £4, £5. We give a Guarantee Certificate.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Link, 20s; 150. Gold
85s. Silver, 4s.
Ooi4 Heart tPumltell Links,
12a 6d ; lie., 20a ; Silver, 8s 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style Gold Links, Extra
Strong and Heavy, 22s 6d ; Isc.
Solid Gold, £2 2s. Silver, 4s Cd.
A Strong Reliable Link.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Shield & Dumbell Links,
9c. Gold, 21s ; 15c. Gold, 355.
Silver, 4s 6d.
'A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Links, 18s 6d, 20s,
255, 355, £2, £2 10s.
Monogram, 2s 6d Extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Charm Envelope
with Twopenny
Stamp, l‘2s 6d.
Name Free.
A.SAUNDERS
CHARM, New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d
A. S.i .UEKS.
Registered Gold Good Wish Brooch,
,3s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255. Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Gold 1900 Pearl & Diamond Brooch, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, 7 Opals, 14 Pearls, Sss.
Bracelets to Match, £2 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird Chain and Heart Brooch, 7s 6d.
Special Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Butterfly Brooch, Pearls, Red or
Blue Stones, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Erin-Go-Bragh B ooch, 17s 6d ;
15c. ( old, 30s; 18c. Gald, 355.
y
A SAUNDERS.
New Gold Century Brooch, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
16a Gold 2-Bar Pure Diamond Brooch, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band, Opal
17s (id ; 15c. Gold, 30d
180. Gold, £2.
Send for Size Card.
A. SAUNDERS.
18q. Gold, 3 Pure Dia-
monds, 2 Opal Hearts,
los. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 6 Opals,
i-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies or Opals, 4 Dia-
monds, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
monds, and 2 Rubies or
Sapphires, Buckle,
£2 10s.
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
mond Band, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 16c. Gold, 30s.
18c. Solid Gold, Extra
Strong- and Heavy, one
or three Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Solid Gold Chain
Rings, 15s, 20s, 30s, £2.
Price to Quality of Gold.
A. SAtu>DERS.
Registered Gold 2-Bird 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, £2.
mzp
i.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ivy Leaf Gold Mizjmh Brooch, 12s Cd.
Silver, 4s Od.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting- Kevless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone Heart and Arrow, with
Red Stone, 12s 6d.
Our Newest Gold Bird and Bell, 6s 6d.
Amethyst, 7s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Latest Gold Rose,
Shamrock & Thistle, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Old English
r V>in, Gold Mounted,
10s.
iMB
p«si
9c. Gold, 12s (id, 15s ;
15c., 30s, 35s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold; Pure Double-cut
Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, i 6 6s, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Ă
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain Snap Padlock,
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss, £3;
15c., £2 10s, £3, £4,
£4 10s, £5, £6, £lO.
10s. Extra for Key-
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
•<*. Saunders
A. SAUNDERS.
New Sword and Australian Enamelled Flair Brooch 90s
Ours is the Australian Fla" 0 ’
Call and See our Jewellery Exhibition—A Special Easter Show
or Send for our 1900 Complete Illustrated Book
FREE ANYWHERE.-^
A. SAUNDERS
Leading Art Jeweller.
815 $ 817 George St.,
NEARLY
OPPOSITE
RAILWAY
STATION,
Sydney


The Fearful Summer Heat
in the Australian Back Country
ENERVATES THE STRONGEST MEN AND WOMEN.
An Interesting; Case Illustrating: the Virtues of Clements Tonic-
THE CASE OF Mi tt. ANNIE LEESE.
// (Reported for “ Red fern Times. 3 ')
Not far from the Exhibition Building our
reporter found No. 37 George Street,
Redfern, the residence of M rs. Aunie Leese,
a well known fashionable dress maker.
The lady chanced to be at home and
received her visitor with every courtesy.
“I have called on you, Mrs. Leese,” said
the journalist, “ for confirmation of a state-
ment that has reached me:—That for a
long time you were a great sufferer from in-
digestion or dyspepsia and made quite a sen-
sational recovery by taking Cl ement’s Tonic. ”
“That is quite true,” replied Mrs. Leese.
“Would you be good enough to give me
the details ? ” asked the reporter.
“Certainly; and you may be sure the
circumstances are such that I am never
likely to forget them. We were living at
Nyngan at the time, a town with a fearful
summer heat and most uninteresting
surroundings. I think these circumstances
combined to start my malady. Eirat the
great heat, next the want of exercise, for
there was no inducement to go driving
walking in that bare, monotonous place.’
And I am quite aware that in my sedentary
profession some pi lysicalexcrcise is absolutely
essentia 1 to preserve good health. My
sickness came on gradually, and for some
time ouito unperceived, and for a good time
after the first symptom of trouble I gave
it no thought or attention —I have always
been careless of myself in that way. At
last the insidious trouble could be no longer
and I recognised that I was in a'
very bad way. My whole digestive system
seemed to be thoroughly disorganised and
run down. After eating, or trying to eat,
I experienced all over my body a fearful
sense of fulness ha: d to describe in words.
It was as though up to the throat I was
distended to the point of bursting, a stifling,
straining sensation with pain in the. neck.
And on my chest there was a feeling of
great weight as though an immense load
lay there trying to suffocate me. At my
back, between my shoulder blades, there
was a constant dull aching pain, and lower
down there was another intolerable pain ia
the right side below the ribs. But this was
rot enough—my cup of misery had to be
Ailed to the brim ; my bead constantly
ached and to my disordered vision all
outward objects seemed to go round and
round in endless revolution. My days and
nights were passed in misery and despair.
Then I would long for food with the desire
of great appetite ;"but when it was brought
anil waiting for me I could not eat it.
And how I longed for rest, for a good sound
sleep once again, and escape, if only for a
little time, from my pains and miseries;
but the sleep would nob come. Daily I got
steadily worse and worse, my mind Idled
with gloom and dreadful forebodings, I
came to that pass as to utterly despair of
myself aud the future.”
“ What remedies did you seek, Mrs.
Leese ?” enquired the reporter.
(■ %“ A doctor treated me for some time,
trying first one thing and then another, but
none of his medicines gave me any
permanent relief, my malady seeming
altogether beyond his shill. Then I tried a
variety of remedies so numerous that now I
could not count them, lb appeared 1 was
doomed, that in the whole world nothing
would cure, that my state was beyond
human aid. It chanced one day that my
husband had a fortunate inspiration—he said
to me:—‘Why don't you try Clements
Tonic? you have heard what a splendid
medicine it is, and wlmt wonderful cures it
has effected;perhaps it would cure you.’ ”
“ And did you take Mr. Leese's advic* ?”
enquired the reporter. v
“Yes, and thankful I am to say I did,
for when I had purchased a large bottle and
soon after I experienced a wonderful relief
from all my suffering, and a change so
sudden for the better that was hardly
credible to anyone who had not experienced
it. And as I continued taking Clements
Tonic my serious troubles diminished.
The terrible feeling of inflation, that had
almost stilled me, subsided and troubled me
no more ; the dull pain between my shoulder
blades passed away. My appetite returned
to its normal condition and I could eat and
drink with relish. About the same time
my headache left me, also the disordered
vision that caused all objects in my range
of vision to appear whirling round. Tlefore
taking Clements Tonic the slightest worry
was distressing to me, causing violent
headache, arising, without doubt, from my
shattered nervous system ; but now I was
so braced and strengthened that this
symptom passed with all my other troubles,
and i was once more my old self again.” *
“Then I may count you, Mrs. Leese,”
enquired the reporter, “as one of the large'
majority who swear by Clements Tonic ? ”
■4* “ You may. I know what it can do, and
what it has done. I have constantly
recommended Clements Tonic to my friends
and customers in all cases I thought.it
would benefit.”
“ May I make this testimony public, Mrs.
Leese?”
“You are very welcome, and you may
add that I shall be pleased to confirm my
wordstoanypersonwhomayread what 1 have
said, asd who will take the trouble tq call
at my residence.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
!, Annie JLebsk, of 37 George Street.. Redfern,
Sydney, in the Colony of Now South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that. I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of four folios
and consecutively numbered from one to four,
and that it com.ains and is a true and faithtu
account, of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish tin
same in any way ; and 1 make this solemn doelaratioi
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions o.’ an Act madeand passed in
tho ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “ An Act for the more effectual abolition ot
Oaths and Atlhmalions taken and mado in the
various Departments of the Government of New
.South Wales, and to substitute Declarations in lieu
thereof, and for tho suppression of voluntary and
extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Redfern this fifth day of July', one
thousand eight hundred and ninety nine, before me,
W. J. MaoDONNELD, J-P,
Pat€i>t Sl)€€p-Brai)<lii}g LiqOid
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the value of Wool ana ohms.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grimwade & Go.
MELBOURNE.
Agents— E. RICH & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
3s Gel per gall. i*x Melto. and Sydney; 3s 9d per ga.ll. in Briatoane.
ack,
Hed, and Blue.
WOOL & PRODUCE
NEW MANHOOD f
SBLLIKTG BROKERS.
Electricity Poured into Your
Body While You Sleep I
Dr. CLARKSON’S ELECTRIC BELT
w
ILL fill your nerves with Electricity
every night while you sleep,
and take
Pr. CLARKSON’S
RE-INVISORATOR
during the day, and in ten days you will
feel the dawn of new life in every organ
of your body. All the nerves will be
charged with renewed energy, and your
heart will beat stronger with the gladness
of youthful vigor. To men who are
Nervous, failing in Vitality, Sleepless,
Despondent, Losing Memory, Vv asting
the Vigor of Manhood, Dyspeptic, W eak
in Stomach and Kidneys; who notice a
general collapse of all Vital parts; to
such men Electricity and the Ke-ln-
vigorator as I apply it will bring happi-
ness and health. Its effect on V eak
Nerves and Organs is truly wonder!ul.
Its touch is Magnetic.
■ M
■
paw
m
: '
a
ft
m
'mm
.
m m
; r ;. *
:■■■ m-:
m
tr mmi MM •
.« w
*/ # i \\ r ffiy/
£>-v -v :
irfWpilßp
:V-- •' V-
TT PILLS the blood with the fire of
1 youth, and gives new vim and
confidence. While it is on the body,
the nerves teem with vitalising warmth,
and within a few weeks the full vigor
of manhood is restored.
W ELECTRIC
Bopy BELT
has been brought to the highest state
of perfection by twenty years’ study
and experiment. It is unlike any of
the old-style belts, and is warranted to
be stronger than any other body appli-
ance made. It is guaranteed for one
year without any expense for renewals
or repairs.
PRICE ; ELECTRIC BELT, 10/-.
Re-lnvi or >tor,7/6 Bottle; 3 Bottles£l
5 tout'll is 5’ 1
and
Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
It will save you years of misery and many Doctor’s bills. Call if you Can. If not, let
If you are
tut 4.10+ nnce It Will save you yearn or * ■>
Sick or Weak, try my Now Met Pamphlet full of Truth fir Men who Want to be Strong.
Call o)
Apply
OWL
CUT
rate
Corner ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
Cut-Rate Price List Post Free on Application.
J


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which ia
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
GEO. ROE
WHISKEY
IS
BEFORE ALL.
SHIRTS.
Vor Station and Out-door work our Silk &TRIPB
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33f per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia,
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane, Q’land
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGE^
...0n...
fir. Fra ok Scfyior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
Avoid Indigestion. Eat
GRANUMA
Avoid Plague ? Drink
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
Be Cheerful? Drink
BILLY TEA
The LUXURY of the TIMES. QUITE UP-TO-DATE
KHAKI BLEND TEA.
Indispensible ! USED by all Loyalists . ,
THE BUSHMAN CONTINGENT CANTEEN
Of ALL Good Grocers and Sensible Storekeepers. <
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents. w
WALTCR BRAPLCY » CO.
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers, *
Auction Booms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro!
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted h„
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sala.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared 9
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-at
POLITICAL
POINTS
One thousand Maorisand 10,000 Europeans
are drawing Old Age pensions in M.L.
Griffiths, M.P. (S.A.), the Westralian
Separationist champion in London, writes to an
Adelaide friend that C.J.’s Way, Darley, and
Griffith will catch it red-hot from the Federal
delegates when they get back to Australia.
Photographer Mason has been commis-
sioned by Vic. Govt, to travel after N.S.W.
Oliver and snapshot the characteristics of N.S.W.
towns which claim to become the Federal capital.
Oliver’s written digest will therefore be supple-
mented by Mason’s pictures.
More people (49,000) voted in favor of
Household Suffrage at the S.A. Referendum a
year ago than are on the Leg. Council roll (48,000).
Yet the Tory Register impudently asserts that
the demand for the broader Council franchise
comes from a minority of the electors.
If the S.A. Council election contest had
Listed but a short time longer it would have grown
most exciting, for apart from Symon’s speech
there were several other fights coming along during
the last days of the campaign. Had Kingston
been on the spot he would have made things hum.
Symon, Q.C. (S.A.), points out that it
was the combination of Miss Shaw, the London
Times, and Joe Chamberlain who brought about
the Jameson Raid and the Transvaal War, and he
considers it significant that they should be joined
again in the conspiracy acainst the Commomvealh
Bill.
Adelaide Register, which boasts of its
fairness in political matters, carefully cut out of
Symon’s speech last week all the appeals he made
to his hearers to show their loyalty to Australia’s
cause by voting for Kingston and Attorney-
General Gordon at the Southern District Council
election.
Melbourne people pick upon ex-Attorney-
General Isaacs as the man who has fomented the
Privy Council trouble in England. Isaacs went
to London long before there was any chance of
the Tramway appeal coming off, and it is averred
that he has whispered much into the ear of Cham-
berlain and others.
How the money goes. A man in a
N.S.W. country town (Mudgee) who broke a
window valued at half-a-crown was committed for
trial. His was the only case, yet a Judge, Crown-
Prosecutor, and others came from Sydney and a
jury was impanelled— merely to hear accused
plead guilty. Cost to the country, £270 !
A Sydney Daily Telegraph correspon-
dent maunders about “ our national and natural
right of appeal to the Privy Council of the Em-
pire.” r lhere is no such “natural and national
right.” Not natural, because created by statute ;
and not national, because the 40,000,000 inhabit-
ants of the British Islands do not possess it.
The C.E. and R.C. chaplains of 40 N.S W.
gaols draw Govt, salaries but no Presbyterian or
Wesleyan chaplain, although doing similar work,
gets a penny from Govt. “Wully” Affleck pro-
poses to force the Govt, next session to put the
latter workmen on the pay-sheet. The proposal
i s equitable. Pay any, pay all proportionated
TRULY LOYAL SENTIMENTS.
"Do you know, ” said the passenger with egg on his
whiskers, “do you know what I would do if I
was Lord Roberts and got a hold of old Kruger?
I'd make him dig his own grave; then I'd
make him shoot himself in the back, and when
he’d tumbled into the grave he’d dug for him-
self, Ed make him fill it up! And,” continued
the man with egg on his whiskers, “you can
tell him I said so, if you like !”
According to London Times Kimberley
correspondent (as piously quoted by Sydney
Church Standard), one of the Boers said to him
that “the day of intercession appointed in the
English Church marked the change in our for-
tunes.” And yet the Boers had been praying
hard from the beginning ? Was Providence glad
of a change ?
Many civic potentates in and about Syd-
ney have owed, and still owe, their municipalities
huge sums for arrears of rates, much of which is
no longer recoverable. One of these persons
when sued for long-due arrears, had the cheek to
plead the Statute of Limitations as a bar to their
recovery by the criminally-dilatory body which
was the creditor.
Sydney teetotalarmist Boyce wants to put
on anybody found in a pub. during prohibited
HIBERNIAN PHRASEOLOGY.
BOARDER (from Bakblox —after a big night):
“’ Struth! awful headache this morning, land-
lord. Join me bran' soda? ”
BONIFACE MURPHY: “ Thankye, sorr. 'Tis a
strange an' most peculiar thing, so it is, that ye
don't experience the same voivacity in the
momin’ as ye do the noight previous before!"
hours the onus of proving that he was not there
for an unlawful purpose. Well, the “ innocent
till proved guilty ” principle is, in practice, very
much of a dead letter, but why should the theory
also be surrendered in the case of the unfortunate
Sunday thirster only ?
According to the Australian Christian
World, “ the reason we are so well supplied with
‘tote-shops’ is that there is such a thing as legal
betting, that helps to foster and increase this ille-
gal betting.” Just so. If there were no laws,
nothing would be illegal. Therefore the best way
to abolish illegal betting would be to have no
betting-laws. Cock-eyed logic this !
The commutation of the death sentence on
Samuel Ensor, last week, saves Broken Hill for
the second time from disgrace of an execution.
John Vlarke, the only other capitally-convicted
Broken Hillite, escaped also by commutation—
Vlarke to five years, Ensor to life. Both cases
were rather bad ones, but in each case the jury
recommended mercy, and the Govt, is to be con-
gratulated on having regarded the recommenda-
tion.
In the Commons, lately, was made a state-
ment which should interest those Australians who
whoop for a share in the “responsibilities of the
Empire.” “Apart from
our trade and the pro-
tection of our colonies,”
said Bowles, M.P., “we
arc bound by treaties to
defend the international
neutrality of Belgium,
Luxembourg, Switzer-
land, and the lonian Is-
lands ; and of Sweden
against Russia. Also the
Independence of Turkey,
Greece, Chusan, and Por-
tugal.” The speaker
might have added to
the list Afghanistan, the
integrity of which John
Bull has guaranteed, and
Asia Minor, for the good
government of which
Bull, by the Cyprus Con-
vention, made himself
responsible ; also Egypt
and the Soudan. The
prospect of Australia
having to bleed for the
maintenance of all this
should be sufficient for
even Dick Seddon, John
See, and G. Republican
Dibbs.
In parallel columns
of Sydney Telegraph
Dr. Ashburton Thomp-
son assures the public that
Haffkine’s prophylactic gives twelve months’ pro-
tection from plague—and Dr. Carmichael, Hono-
lulu plague-doctor, says the remedy is effective
for 44 from 30 to 40 days.” Which shows how little
is really known about the efficacy of the preven-
tive.
Dear Bulletin.— When the railway from
Cooma to the Vic. border, via Bombala and Dele-
gate, is built, there will be a gap of 30 miles of
good auriferous, agricultural and pastoral country
between it and the Mt. Deddick railway. Then
there will be an agitation to connect and make an
interprovincial railway of it, and Govt, will have
to buy the Mt. Deddick Co. out.— Duncan Mac.
“ The critics of the Commonwealth Bill,
defeated at the Referendum, have yet been persis-
tent enough to frustrate the mission of the dele-
gates in so far as it aimed at securing the complete
acceptance of the federal constitution by the
Imperial authorities, subject to such action as our
Federal Government would take in pursuance of
their wishes. The Federal Convention, the Refer-
endum, the Parliaments, and the Premiers in con-
ference have united in saying one thing, and Mr.
Chamberlain has said another, and so the matter
stands.”— Sydney Morning Herald.
When Ballance started on his long journey
of reform, the Tory press of Maoriland rose up to
howl about the sensitiveness of Capital,
and protested that, if democratic
legislation were • indulged in
said C. would rise up hastily
and flee the country. Huge
deputations of “all the
best men ” waited upon
the Premier to point
out this appalling
fact, but Ballance
only sighed and said
“No such luck!”
And there wasn’t.
And in South Africa
at present we are
having another ex-
hibition of “sensi-
tiveness of capital.”
At the Kimberley
Relief banquet
Colossus -R h odes
calmly remarked
that De Beers Co. intended to fortify Kim-
berley and do away for ever with the chance
that a sudden upheaval or racial war would en-
danger the diamond-mines. And yet it is possible
that the huge Syndicate will get its way, as in
South Africa De Beers seems to be a law unto
itself.
While N.S.W. nominee Leg. Council is
unpaid it is futile to expect from it any hearty
response to the demands of public opinion. Its
natural tendency will be to voice sentiments
antagonistic to those of the paid branch of the
Legislature. No country in the world has success-
fully worked two Chambers thus diversely based.
It may be, as it has been in the past, that the
Leg. Council will on a certain subject move in
advance of the paid Leg. Assembly. The present
N.S.W. Council gave a couple of instances of this
last session. But these are exceptional generosi-
ties —and the exceptions which prove the rule.
An unpaid Parliament sitting beside a paid one
feels it incumbent upon it to conserve
privileges and play stubborn brake to the
wheel of progress.
“ The colonies,” said Chamberlain
iu the House of Commons on April 3,
“although they reverence the person of
the monarch, and are devoted in their
loyalty to the Crown, nevertheless are,
with that exception, independent and
sister-nations.” In that case “ the colonies”
have the right to make laws for their
domestic government, and to decide the
interpretation of those laws, without inter-
ference by British tribunals —and The
Bulletin cites Chamberlain in condem-
nation of his own meddling with the Com-
monwealth Bill.
Rev. Dr. Jeffries,, in an excellent
Sydney address, makes the sound consti-
tutional point that legislation and justice
should be strictly separated; and inasmuch
as the members of the Judicial Committee
of the Privy Council may at the same time
sit in the House of Lords it is a tribunal
constitutionally unsafe. And the pro-
posed new imperial Court of Appeal
appears to perpetuate the same fault in a
graver form.
Dear Bulletin. — Large audience at a
recent Sydney suburban “patriotic” concert
enthusiastically cheered “Soldiers of the Queen ”
and “Sons of the Sea”; warmly bi-encored
“ Absent-Minded Beggar,” and faintly applauded
“Advance Australia Fair”—the best part song
of the evening. Are Australians going to be more
British than the Britons when the Vampire
Calls ?— Bennie.
Symon, Q.C., astonished all S.A. Tories
by coming out at the last moment as a champion
of Kingston at the Council elections. They were
articled clerks together in the office of Chief Jus-
tice Way, with whom Symon was afterwards in
partnership. This, however, did not prevent him
from bitterly condemning the intrigues of Way,
Lainington, and other Imperialists against the
Federation Bill.
The English illustrated weekly is one of
the most potent bulwarks of Royalty : it is mostly
Royalty recorded, “ pictured,” apotheosized. Yet
an enterprising English printing house has
brought out an illustrated weekly entitled The
King. Is this in indecent anticipation of Queen
Victoria s demise and the early coming of
“Tummy?” So much for illustrated loyalty—
the patriotism of “posters”—and printer’s ink !
There was serious dissension in the Hol-
der Ministry over the great Southern District con-
test. Ere Kingston left, his old colleagues pro-
mised, if he didn’t return in time, to do his cam-
paigning for him. The Tory crowd decided to
plump for Stirling, whom Kingston was so anxious
to depose, and thereupon Attorney-General Gor-
don pleaded that his seat was endangered. As a
result, the original idea of stumping the country
was abandoned.
A feature of the election for S.A. Leg.
Council was the attitude of Symon, Q.C., who
deliberately broke away from the Tory party to
support Kingston’s candidature. For the last
three jrears they have not been on speaking terms,
“ but, 55 said Symon, “the issue is now that of the
nation, and Mr. Kingston has stood firm for the
rights of the people." Svmon’s powerful speech,
denouncing Way, Baker, and the rest of the
Backstairs party, 5 ' gained Kingston hundreds of
votes.
Concerning an official dispute :
Vic. Railway-Commissioner Mathieson has just scored
one off the Postal Department: A telephone-line was
erected along the railway between Foster and Fish Creek
(with the Railway Commissioners’ permission), but when
all was ready for use the railway magnate said : “ No you
don’t, unless I get half the returns.” Deputy PG.
Outtrim was aghast, but seeing his opponent held the
winning card, offered 25 per cent. But the Com. stuck-
out for equal shares, and as neither side will give way the
P.O, loses £lOO (cost of line), ami the public, as usual,
suffers by the quanel between two State departments
supposed to be run for its benefit. Little sympathy is
felt for the P. 0., it being noted for working points on
its constituents.
In arguing the Joshua Percy Josephson
case before Sydney Banco Court, last week, Mr.
O'Connor, Q.C., threw a vivid sidelight on the
political patronage game of past years. The point
at issue w;us: Had J. P. Josephson, a temporary
civil servant of nearly 30 years’ standing, and
whose office was alxdished in ’!)5, a valid claim for
a pension ? The distinction between a temporary
and full-fledged civil servant was set out as being
that the latter was appointed by the Govemor-in-
Council and duly gazetted, wfit jioas the former
was simply dropped into a billet at a trifle a week
by some influential politician. Mr. Josephson
was, for instance, appointed by politician J. H.
Young, at (ss. a day, in 1872, and Mr. O’Connor
asserted that 48 per eent. of the entire body of
civil servants were similarly appointed.
The cost of Chamberlain's backbone and
the right of the Rhodes-Beit gang to consolidate
the Rand gold-mining industry, described in the
Outlook
Since I commenced this scribble of impressions and re-
flections I have been in two battles. Small, it is true,
when one looks at the numbers engaged, the losses in-
volved, the results achieved. But battles where the
shrapnel screamed for miles, and burst in clouds of blue
smoke and brown dust against rocky bills and kranzes
held by men whose blood colored the shattered stones ;
where bullets came in little clouds like rain-drops blown
in windy gusts from wet trees, kicking up a score or so of
dusty holes in the burnt ground ; where men were dying
suddenly with tiny punctures in their foreheads, or lin-
geringly with great pieces of flesh and bone torn violently
from chest and shoulder and thigh, past all patching or
any help. I have sat eating a needed meal of bully-beef,
dry bread, and whisky mingled with water opaque with
dust and filth and straw, at the door of a farmhouse, with
our chimney carried away bv a shell, and a Red Cross flag
fluttering uncertainly from the other—a farmhouse trans-
formed into a hospital ! Inside, in rooms from whfch
everything superfluous had been stripped and thrown in a
heap beneath the windows -pictures, drapery, and furni-
ture, ornaments —on mattresses laid upon the floor and
A POOR HARVEST AND A RICH ONE.
“South Australia’s wheat-yield for 1899 is estimated at
4½ bushels per acre.”
THE JAUNTY ONE: “There, there, don't cry I
Contemplate cheerful things rather. Look at
MY bountiful harvest, to which you have your-
self in a small measure contributed. Rouse up,
and look at the pretty moonshine.”
redolent of antiseptics-, poor stalwart fellows, with heads,
or arms,-or knees, or wrists, or ankles swathed in tell-tale
bandages, groaning a little, sleeping a little, cursing a
little ; all, gentle and simple, with that strange, tired
look in their eyes that speaks the thought that
nothing they have hoped for, nothing they have gained
or undergone, is worth the present home of pain and
misery and dejection. And in the kitchen beyond a
floor strewn with oaten-straw, a deal table covered with
waterproof sheets, a naked figure, his senses happily
drowned in ether, a group of surgeons in breeches
gaiters, and flannel shirts, their sleeves rolled to the
elbows, saving a life by taking off a mangled limb. As I
have stood talking to an officer who-was waiting to know
whether his wounded sergeant will survive the operation
an orderly has passed bearing in a basin full of blood the
leg that half an hour since gripped the saddle-flap as he
rode gallantly into action. Down in the hollow a fatigue-
party was digging a trench ; but the line of waterproof
sheets stretched over vague suggestive shapes hard by
guarded by a couple of sentries with fixed bayonets and
hovered round by a khaki-clad chaplain, said plainly that
the trench was a grave.


4
Reasons Why
PALING’S
PIANOS
Are so
Popular
BECAUSE
The TONE is Pure and Sympathetic
They are built to RESIST wear
The Models are Most ARTISTIC
The PRICE is VERA MODERATE
Catalogues are Free.
PALING’S
3 rd FLOOR
IS STOCKED WITH A
MAGNIFICENT COLLECTION OF
ALL KNOWN MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
Violins
Cornets
Elutes
*
Banjos
Guitars
Mandolins
*
Autoliarps
Polyplions
Accordeons, &c., &c.
Strings and Fittings for
ALL INSTRUMENTS
CALL or
WRITE for
CATALOGUES-FREE
W. H. PALSNG & CO., Ltd., 338 George-street, Sydney.
Brisbane Newcastle.
“CIK
Story
of a
Remarkable
Cycle...
Ride.”...
POBTED GRATIS.
“ The Story of a Remarkable Cycle Ride”
Contains an interesting account of Arthur
Rk hardson's Cyc'e Ride around the Aust-
ralian Continent. Cyclists will find the
Booklet extremely interesting. The
story of Richardson's adventures and
hardships affording the most interesting
reading.
Anyone can obtain a Copy Gratis
By sending an application to . .
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aust. Ltd.,
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Or Lichfield-st.. Chris church (N.Z.); 150 Clarence-st.,
Sydney : 9 Franklin-st., Adelaide; iBo Queen-st.,
Br sbane ; and 154 Barrack-st., Pc.th.
Your gycle
will run easier
and with less
vibration when
À
are fitted.
(Cyclists can Hvoid
All tyre troubles
by riding ....
o
MULTIPLEX
Dunio,p Tyres
they being reliable under all circumstances.
ROADSTER TYRES GUARANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. ol Aust. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Christchurch.
Maoriland Agent-General Reeves is a cute
advertiser, as is shown by his recent intervention
in Australian Federal matters. It is hardly a
matter for doubt that Seddon knew nothing and
cared nothing for the Bill in the House of Com-
mons until Reeves rushed in and stirred things
up, and the cable-man did the rest. Reeves is
credited with the design of drifting over to Im-
perial politics on the Liberal side. His London
newspaper-evolution has been Mr. W. P. Reeves,
Mr. W. Pember Reeves, Mr. Pember Reeve 3.
Sir Pember looms ahead—if lie’s taking any.
YOU WOULDN’T CATCH
Us advertising “ D.C.L.” Scotch Whisky so
largely unless we were prepared to convince the
public of its absolute purity, by supplying only an
article which they will ask for again and again,
and refuse all others.*
April Contemporary has a tip for the
Popedom. The four Cardinals apparently in it
are Rampolla, Parocchi, Vannutelli, and Svampa.
But a surprise may be sprung : Capecelatro would
be a great favorite for advanced years. Parocchi
looks to have the best show—a man of distinguished
intellect and a degree of Machiavellian pliability.
Rampolla is the out-and-out Tory, now next to
the Pope, as secretary of state. Vannutelli is the
colorless man, and not of high calibre. Svampa is
the youngest cardinal, fouijueuse, as the French
say, boiling over with zeal and energy.
Machiavellian motives are suggested for
the Bushmen-Contingent muddling of Vic. Govt.
Seeing that George Turner appointed Major-Gen.
Downes to be Commandant of the local Army,
whereas M‘Lean would probably have hearkened
to the prayers of the Col. Bingham faction, the
“Ants” have put forward the theory that the
Bushmen Corps mismanagement was a political
means of discrediting Downes. Which looks very
like a whale. There is more appearance of truth
in the allegation that the selection of Bushmen
officers was mainly a matter of influence and—er,
grease.
The Bulletin has just received from
Maoriland Dept, of Labor a copy of its mcnchly
journal (price 2d.) and a publication every working
man should read. Compared to ttie Fortunate
Isles of Dick Seddon, Australia seems indeed a
benighted and uncivilised land, for on this con-
tinent, when the worker has a dispute with his
owner, he must either submit to the will of the
latter, or take the sack, or organise a strike and
be a marked man for the rest of his life. In
M.L. they settle industrial disputes without de-
priving the youngsters of so much as their weekly
lolly-money. On 24th April the printers of Wel-
lington hauled their employers before the Court
of Conciliation, which made certain recommenda-
tions for the working of the trade and gave both
sides notice that if its recommendations were not
acted on by 4th May it would report that it was
unable to effect a settlement —in which case the
Court of Arbitration would inquire into the dis-
Kand deliver a verdict which should be as
ing as a decision of the Privy Council. Also,
since Sept., ’9B, the boot-trade of Otago has been
working under an award of 26 clauses delivered
by the Court of Arbitration and to which the
dourt has just made three additions. Besides
accounts of these two cases, the little journal
contains a mass of information about the state of
the labor-market in every part of Maoriland,
judging by which the country is in a fairly
prosperous state, and ruled by a government
which watches its people carefully from cradle to
grave.
The general feeling in England was that
Henniker Heaton ought to have got the Post-
inaster-Generalship, in succession to the Duke of
Norfolk, gone to fight.
The recent Fraser shooting case raised a
fine point in surgical ethics which has never been
decided. When the victim was taken to the
Alfred Hospital, Melb., with a bullet in his head,
the hospital staff determined that he must be tre-
phined, though they believed that in any case he’d
not live more than a few hours. Fraser, being a
surgeon himself, knew that this operation is more
often fatal than not, and he refused absolutely to
submit to it. The medicos sought the opinion of
Attorney-General Isaacs as to their power in the
matter, and were told that they might proceed
with the operation if it was necessary to save life.
By this time, Fraser, under the influence of opi-
ates, had become partly unconscious, and it was
alleged or pretended that he had given his consent.
His skull was then cut open, and a sciograph taken
of the bullet in the centre of the brain, from which
it was impossible to extract without causing death.
The wound was closed, and, contrary to expecta-
tion, the sufferer recovered. In the parallel case
of Greer, victim of the Melb. Opera House tragedy
a number of years ago, death followed quickly
upon trephining. If all aeounts are true there is
too much surgery in our midst.
Rumsey’
Honest Seedls.
Package containing 1 oO Varieties
of Flower Seeds sent with new catalogue of Seeds, Roses
and Fruit Trees for X/- stamps post free.
Herbert J. Rumsey, Boronia, Barber’s Creek, N.S.W.
w
CLASSICAL
and School MUSIC.
20,000
WORKS TO SELECT FROM
. .ALLAN & CO. .
Collins St.
MELBOURNE.
i ifO i
lisy
T
i!
ill ill
i
>l2
<*■ ••»
m
*4?
* i *
rOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is ... .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTSREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
cs*
iP
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
fflont deplete Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74. CASTLEB-EAGH ST., 74
' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Prorressive Life
Office in Australia.
OEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
r 1879. _
SCOTTISH”
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
247 George Street ( facin^Blid » est ) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTII, Esq.
Life, Accident,
Employers Liabil
at Lowest Kates.
Disease and their combinations,
ity and Public Risk Insurances
E. N. BARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guar an tee
Co. Ltd. «/ London.
Fidelity Guarantees. lOmp. IjiaOilty.
Accidents, Typlioid, Itipiitlieria, elc.
W. M‘Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. O. Hassale ; Perth, A. VV
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Wvite for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Qempn.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager,
Mel Lou me Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loodoi) St Lancashire
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
. Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMIT HI).
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Streeft
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Ciiarker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000
£350,000
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KELtlt, Manager.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon J F Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
’ C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,056.
Policies issued, 79,765 - assuring £24,(35,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARE, A.1.A., General Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, May 26, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., June 2, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., June 12, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., June 12, 5 p.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, May 26, 12 Noon.
Burwah, Tuesday, May 29, 5 p in.
Tyrian, Saturday, June 2, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, May 26,12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, June 2, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Carjro
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Cowper Wharf, Woolloomooloo.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb€ TrCist€€S, €X€Cotors,
" AND
AgsocV Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £so,ooo 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 600,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Reoistered Capital .. .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4 ’OOl .. £3,196,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. 11. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector: 11. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nieol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arth, r Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London OJjice: 1 Jti.shopBf/nte Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GICOUGI2 ST 11 MET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford 'with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Auditors :
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Business Announcements.
ladies’ Tailoring
Season—l9oo.^>
HAVING made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Lady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming IVI ail boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Go., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Galling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
I .ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINK).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Leave
Sydnej
at 1 p.m.
Leave
Auckland.
Arrive ab
San
Francisoa,
June 6 June 11 June 29
July 4 July 9 July 27
August 1 August 6 August 24
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, nnd guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Si earn Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Comer Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N.D.L.” COMPANY,
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
196,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
OSTERMEYER DICWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
P6RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Xanrtger and General Agent.
FINANCE, MININGS INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
“PRIMUS”
BATH
HEATER.
For K.FKOSENE. A. Hot Shower immediately.
XU
. . HOT WATER INSTANTLY . .
No Chimney Pipes or Plumbers’ work required in fixing
You can fix it yourself. NO FUMES. NO SMELL. ”
PRICE : With 2-Burner Kerosene Gas Stove—without
Shower, 755. ; with Shower, 955. Price with 3or 4
Burner Kerosene Stove, 10s. per Burner extra.
“ PRIMUS ” ROOM WARMERS can be fitted to any Kero-
sene Gas Stove. Price (made of Steel), 15s. each •
Brass, 255.
BRANDT BROS.
236 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
And 422 and 424 Elizabeth-st., MELBOURNE.
. Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
Express Passenger Service
—TO AXD FROM —
West Australian, South Australian,
and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE '
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports_
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
May 25.
S.S. Wollowra (from
Melbourne), Tuesday,
June 5.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Flinders, Friday,
May 26.
Best & Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields,
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. 00.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LrNE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships* as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURK ETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accmnmodutlon, Attendance and
Cuisine, unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows ■ —
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Sydney,
Noon
Steamer.
Commander.
HIMALAYA
OCEANA
PENINSULAR
BRITANNIA
CHINA
6898 T. Leigh ..(June 2
0003 1,. 11. Crawford,C.B.R.N.R. June 16
5287 W. A. Wheler ... ...'June 30
6525 F. H. Seymour ... .. j.Julv 14
'nowit s. Angus ... . 'July 28
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £B6 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAWNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets. •
Huddart, parker § C°’s tine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORI’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Cu- rent Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamgrs were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenienoe,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-sireet, Sydney.
(H‘|luiraith,|l)‘Eacharn& go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Prcprieta-v Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address —467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE ADF-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows ’
PASSENGERS hooked to Bombay, India Cl
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED R \TFS
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
ENGLISH
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every “
in landing and passing their luggage through t he c,,'fe Ce
etc., and also accompany them to Paris anrl Oni,i St °“ !S ’
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) b ,»i
colonial Ports are available for return bv p 6”
steamers haying room. * L - a ud O.
For further particulars apply at the Comnanv'.
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney. s Offices,
K . BRASIER DE THUY. Pri„ci pal A „ ent


In Auckland (M.L.) district was recently
discovered the last living lineal descendant of Sir
Francis Drake. Mrs. John Angelo (nee Drake)
the wife of a settler, has applied to Chancery for
any moneys lying to her credit, and has also for-
warded to the Queen a letter giving full particulars
of her (Mrs. A.’s) ancestry.
An influential committee of N.S.W. citi-
zens, headed by Lord Beauchamp, is raising funds
(subscriptions limited to a guinea each) for the
purpose of having a portrait of Chief Justice
Darley painted and hung in the Supreme Court.
Subscriptions may be sent to the private secretary
at Government House. It is understood that the
Chief Justice has expressed a desire that the com-
mission be entrusted to Mr. John Longstaff.
Reading between the lines of the latest
accounts of Lord Methuen’s disaster at Magers-
fontein it is not hard to see that the position ought
to have been taken, and that the defeat was owing
to the unlucky accident of the Highland Brigade
running off the field after meeting a withering fire
and losing their leader. The Highlanders are the
finest fighters in the world, but their liability to
panic is rather greater than that of other British
troops. The Duke of Wellington used to say “I
don’t object to the regiment that runs away, but
to the regiment that refuses to return when called
upon.” That shows that running away in war is
a much more common occurrence than the special
correspondents would have us believe. Lord
Roberts has said notning against Methuen, while
his opinion as to the cause of the repulse has been
carefully suppressed.
On a land-reclamation matter :
Editor Bulletin.—An inspection of Koo-wee-rup Swamp
(Vic.) is a trenchant lesson on the awful incompetence of
departmentalism. The swamp embraces 53,000 acres,
and over £200,000 has been spent on it—of which £lOO,OOO
is practically wasted. The drains have been badly con-
structed and pcrpjtually need patching and repairing.
Tile swamp-land is peaty, and the fool departmental
ollicers have planted most of their bridges and culverts
on a level with the water-soaked soil, so that when the
summer comes and scorches up the swamp the said
bridges are left standing disconsolate 3 or 4 ft. above the
ground, while the culverts look like aerial bridges. More-
over, in all these miles of swamp there is not a single road,
and though, this year, the few settlers —battling pluckily
for a living—raised some 10,000 tons of potatoes and
onions they couldn’t get them to market, and last Good
Friday’s Hood destroyed the lot! Of course, no Minister
is directly rcsponsiole for these blunders, but a chief of
department who allows himself to be thus tamely “ run ”
by his subordinates is a dummy and an exc rescence.—F.O.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEO
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
round, d with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre s vour finger on tlu inflamed pail it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, hut go on suffering till deatli releases
you Perhaps v nr knees arc swollen, the jointß being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may he discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disense
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the powei to
wa k Yoi may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I ( AN
Cyltb 1 Oil. I don't say ) erhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
fcend at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PiLLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad lags,
Housemaid's Knee, UleeraUd Joints, Carbuncles, Poison- d
Hands, Tunmurs, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, S .-re ,
&c. Price, in. Great Bri ain, l/ljd. per b x. Prepared b.v
AI BER T, 73, Farringdon-street, London, Ei cl:.lid.
Agents - ELLIOTT BBOS., Sydney. Purchasers shou d
look ;oi the registered trad*' mark of tin Grasshopper on a
g.eeit la el on vach box. (Regd. odpyri e ht).
Neves* HAIR
Look
Old
There is no need
of it. You can
look at thirty as if
you are sixteen.
Then why look as
if you are sixty ?
Thick and glossy hair belongs to
youth. Thin and faded hair to old age.
L
mn
nair
visor
will make your
hair soft and
glossy, rich
and abundant.
It will keep
your scalp free
from dandruff,
and will surely
prevent your
hair from fall-
ing out.
It Never Falls to Restore the
Natural Color to the Hair
It gives to the hair that soft, glossy
appearance so natural to early life. For
men, this means the look of strength
and power. For women, it is the one
ornament of youthful beauty.
Remember that pimples, rashes, and like
disfigurements of the face may be thoroughly
removed by taking a course of treatment with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It will make the skiD
smooth and the blood rich.
Prepared by Dr. .1. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass.. U. S. A.
D .S .MAI R
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2 6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
BEST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. 13?" Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address. 684 George Street, Sydney.
Discussing late attacks of French publi-
cists on Queen Victoria, a Sydney Q.C. dug up
several cases in which English courts prosecuted
when British subjects libelled foreign rulers. One
Peltier was prosecuted for libelling Napoleon, and
was found guilty in London, but escaped punish-
ment owing to Napoleon a second time declaring
war. Lord George Gordon was found guilty in
London of libel on Marie Antoinette ; and Vint, a
publisher, was convicted in 1801 for libelling the
Emperor of Russia.
Sample of clerical humor, from the re-
ligious column of Sydney Telegraph :
A good story is told of a Presbyterian Moderator, place
of abode not mentioned. Years ago, in a clerical
gathering, a brother had been advocating a very literal
interpretation of the book of Revelation, and when it
came to be Dr. Sample’s turn to express his thoughts he
figuratively brought down the house by remarking,
“ Brethren, I am afraid of this literal theory when applied
strictly. For instance, take the woman who sat upon
seven hills ; taken literally, this statement calls for a
sitting capacity beyond all precedent.” There was no
attempt to argue the point.
And yet the point might have been argued. Any
woman could sit on seven hills at once if she were
large enough and the hills small enough. Besides,
it isn’t absolutely asserted that she sat on all the
hills at once. Even a very ordinary woman can
sit on seven consecutive hills.
“Rodent”: There are about 100 species
of rats, and probably Sydney has not got them
all. The sort which disturbed the sleep of George
I. were a black kind, now almost extinct. They
were ousted by our common or garden variety,
erroneously called the Norwegian rat. The giant
rat of Malabar is 24in. long—one-half body, the
other half tail. The hamster species swarms in
the southern provinces of Russia; also in Hungary
and Germany. For winter use they store up in
their burrows from 12 to 1001 b. of grain in the ear
and seeds in pods, all well cleaned and dried.
This rat lias a pouch in each chepk, not seen when
empty. On one of the creatures being dissected
the pouches were found to be filled with young
French beans, packed ono upon the other so
closely and skilfully that the most expert fingers
could not have economised the receptacle to
greater advantage. When taken out and laid
loosely they formed a heap three times the bulk
of the animal’s body ! The economic rat of the
American and Asiatic shores of the Arctic Ocean
excavate commodious lodging-vaults and store-
houses. In Scotland rats used to be regarded as
symbols of witchcraft ; and the ancient bards of
Ireland had the power of rhyming rats to death.
A reference to the practice occurs in these lines
from “ Rhythmes against Martin Mar-Prelate ”: —
I am a rimer of the Irish race,
And have already rimdc thee staring mad ;
But if thou cease not thy bold jests to spread,
I’ll never leave till I have rimde thee dead.
Rhyming to death is a power that has continued
to this day. Why not put the poets on the job,
and save the small-boy rat-catchers from the
risks they are running ?
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society.
S. Harvey, Ltd.,
London, S.E.
Ǻ
ARE YOU ABOUT TO FURNISH
You cannot do better than try HALL’S. They have the Largest
Stock in Australasia. Have you got one of our New Catalogues ? If
not, call or write for one. Posted Free. 72 Pages, 500 Illustrations.
Just Published.
HALL’S
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, in rich Genoa Velvet, with silk plush borders, viz., Settee,
2 Arm Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for 8 Guineas. Thirty Drawing-room Suites to
select from.
HALL’S
DINING-ROOM SUITE, very strong:, covered in best American Leather; 6 Padded
Back Chairs, Large Couch, and Pair Easy Chairs. 6 Guineas. Ditto, in real Maroo
Leather, 10 Guineas.
HALL’S
BEDROOM SUITE, Polished Pine or Walnut Color; Wardrobe, with Plate-glass
Door and Deep Drawer ; Duchess Chest Drawers, with Glass attached ; Marble-top
Washstand, Towel Rail, and Chair, £6 15s.
HALL’S
FULL-SIZE HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD, Brass Footrail, Double Wire Mattress,
and Set Best Wool Bedding. 4 Guineas. With best Kapok Bedding, £4 17s. 6d.
A. HALL & COMPANY,
The Universal House Furnishers,
561, 563, 565 & 567 George Street, Sydney
(BRICKFIELD HILL).
Goods Stored Free until required. Country Orders Packed Free. Leave Tram at Liverpool-
street for Hall’s. Close—Saturdays, 9 p.m. ; Wednesdays, 1 p.m.
Visitors to the old country
SOUTH
KENSINGTON
HOTEL
QUEEN’S GATE TERRACE.
LONDON. S.W.
UNDER ROYAL PATRON*.GE.
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT & CONVENIENCE.
ONE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.
c-
Cures While
You Sleep
Whooping Gough, Asthma, Group, Gatarrh, Golds.
CRESOUEPiE when vaporized in the sickroom wilt give immediate
relief. Its curative powers are wonderful, at the same time preventing the
spread of contagious diseases by acting as a powerful disinfectant. Harm-
less to the youngest child. Sold by all chemists.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., L oS?d C ™r'it, London.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Rudd.”
The Jolliest Book of the Year
mm.
■ ->:■
m
t®
' ' *
ItW,
'M*.
L
, ■■
m®
m.
The COOLALTA VINEYARDS, ■from a Photograph.
Lightest Wines- in Australia
J. A. WILKINSON
Offices :
374 George Street, Sydney.
(down John Sands’ lane.)
JUlenburgs Foods.
PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys”
The “ Altenburys ”
Milk Food no. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
The “ Allenburys”
Similarly adapted to the second three months of life.
Malted Food No. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
——
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 585, COLLINS h-REET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.


3Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
IpfUieoza CoCigb.
THE TRIPLE FORK crown affords all necessary
strength at a vital point, and is a distinctive feature
of the MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE, which imparts
added value and security to the machine.
Factories—Toronto. Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
T J. M'BRIDE, General Manager for Australasia,
MELBOURNE.
F, L. BISHOP, Manager for New South Wales,
SYDNEY.
Æ
ZKew handle 2}ar Adjustment.
Found only oq 1900 JJodel Red Birds.
Notice the great simplicity and effectiveness of this device : just a turn
of the nut and the handle bars may be adjusted to any position : and,
at the same time, be raised or lowered. Nothing to get out of
order. No squeezin of the head tube, as with other bolt and nut
fastenings, consequently no loose head cones and bearings.
This is another of the many little features which make Red Birds superior to other cycles.
Manufactured, Sold and Guaranteed by ... •
Cbe ©oold Bicycle Co», Ctd.
Australasian Branches :
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Hgents everywhere.
64 King~BT ./ Sydney, Head Office in AutnULiA,
261 COLLINB-BT., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st. Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st., Wellington, N.Z.
PRIOE8: £lO l £l5, £2O, and £3O.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Tatt.’s May meeting at Randwick on Saturday
didn’t draw a big crowd, but most of those who went out
weren’t sorry, for, bar one, all winners were well backed.
Ball opened with hurdles. Old Honeydew went out top
of market—6 to 4 on. Deemster, 4 to 1 against, won
easily. Rival fell at first jump, and the big grey, States-
man’ll, followed suit at the back of the course, breaking
his own neck and the collarbone of the jockey (Edwams).
Flying Handicap was voted a moral for Leapfrog (Hop-
scotch’s brother), who had done wonders on the track.
Backers fell over each other for 6 to 4 and then laid a shade
of odds on— maiden and all though he was. At the
start “8 to 1 bar one” was the burden of the leather-
lunged’s song. But a 15 to 1 chance romped in an
easy winner giving nothing else a show; the hot pot
could’nt get nearer than fourth. Bob s win wasn t looked
for by owner or trainer, but nathless a few big bets were
booked. Tatt’s Stakes brought out a field of 21, and the
Newcastle nag Allinga—backed heavily from 12 s down to
5 to 2—landed a pile for her party m a common canter.
Nothing better than 5 to 2 was going about Melodian at
the start in Winter Stakes, and little more was ever
offered. He got his head in front at the jump and won
easing off—this in striking contrast with his performance
in Rous Handicap at recent A.J.O. Autumn meet., when
he finished one of the last couple among 13 runners. Alice
Mostyn was served strong for the Mile Welter. Threes
were the longest odds obtainable at any time. Punters
took even money freely for a while, but she started at
5 to 2, and passed the post first by three-quarters of a
length after a gruelling struggle with Foley. Several of
those behind were evidently only out for an airing.
• • * *
Writer ran out to Kensington, Sydney, so-called
pony races last Friday. Pony races! Horses with breed-
ing, and big enough to win Melb. Cup. Acorn, the cham-
pion, is a picture—a three-year-old colt by Abercorn
from Penitence, stands half-an-inch under 15 hands, and
ran his six furlongs easily in 1.17}, with 8.9 up. As
a comparison, at Randwick next day Bob, 4 years, with
8.3, took 1.18 to run his six furlongs in the Flying Handi-
cap, a performance which immediately made him a red-
hot favorite at 3 to 1 for Sydney Turf Club Royal Stakes.
Some other sires represented are Carbine, Manton, Realm,
Puschka, Clan Stuart, Fusilier, Beauchamp, Russley,
Metal, Niagara, Lochiel—in fact, the blood on both sides
of the house, for which the Britishers plank down their
thousands.
• * *
Just before the City and Suburban was run
English racing prophets spoke of The Grafter as a “ has-
been ” likely to prove as disappointing as Survivor.
• • * *
The impolitic action of the Hawkesbury Show
people last year in placing visiting trotting horses on
prohibitive marks bore fruit this season, as the show was
left severely alone by the owners of good animals, and
the contests confined to local horses. Time was
when Hawkesbury Trot was a big event, but this year it
was little better than a farce, one horse distancing the
field, and the best he could do was about a 3.20 gait.
Matt. Dunhey, the well-known steeplechase rider, caused
some diversion by mounting an alleged mule outlaw ; but
all the moke could do was to give a few big jumps,
and Matt, earned a very soft two guineas.
* * * *
The generous M.L. metropolitan trotting-club
did a very safe thing in offering a £lOO purse for any
horse breaking the Australasian mile-record. The best
M.L. trotters are far from equal to it. And it was well
known that champion Fritz would not be sent over to
improve on his own brilliant time, 2.ISj.
* * * *
Recent Adelaide racing furnished a splendid
advt. for the tote, and Melb. men were once more im-
pressed. An investment of £1 on every horse running
during the three-days’ meeting would have produced a
net profit of £lOl. Whereas Moses and co. won’t pay-out
more than 20 to 1, the machine twice paid over 60, and
for Adelaide Cup returned £27 for £l. The good old
machine is returning to the public what would have gone,
in the old days, in buying diamond rings for Ikey.
Recent race-meeting at Norseman (W.A.) takes
the cake. Previous heavy rain had played up with the
course. One portion was a regular quagmire. Several
nags fell there during the afternoon, and—remarkable
coincidence —all were from the same stable. “Snip”
(running in the interests of a syndicate) was a starter
three times, and on each occasion fell at the same place
with same rider up. When Snip went down the third
time the order of the programm had been altered to let
him start in the last race.
* * * *
‘ ‘ Old-Timer” : Saw battle between pugs. Nathan
(Melb.) and Casey (Sydney) at Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney)
Saturday night. Nathan’s frank good-looking boyish face
made it seem cruel to put him to the game, but when he
got going the tiger showed out. Casey, blocky-shaped,
good-tempered and grit to the core, took much the
larger share of gruel during the first dozen rounds till
Nathan’s stamina petered out. Even then the Melb. lad’s
left operated freely round about Casey’s face. Nathan
slipped or was rushed off his feet frequently towards the
end of the 20 rounds stipulated, but was never knocked
down. Referee called it a draw, but if points went for
anything writer would like to wager that Nathan had a
wide margin in his favor.
Little Pluto, the colored pug. who fought G-riffo
100 odd rounds at the old Melb. Athletic Club, is back
from Klondike more prosperous than ever. Pluto is
almost the only Vic. pug. who has come out of the game
well. Going to the West early he made enough by fights
to get into several tip-top shows, and, about a year later,
returned to Melb. with a tolerable fortune. He bought
several terrace properties, took unto himself a handsome
white wife, built a fine villa at Middle Park, and used to
run the nattiest dog-cart about Melb. But the spirit of
mining had entered Pluto, and on the outbreak of Klon-
dike he had to cross over. Originally a wharf laborer,
Pluto at the age of 30 is a prosperous retired gentleman.
Before he is 40, he will probably be a millionaire with a
seat in the Senate.
• * * *
Trouble in South Africa doesn’t seem to make
much difference to pugs. Melbourne Tom Duggan and
Jack Lalor (a local smasher) had a go at the Cape early
last month for £l5O and the middleweight championship.
Fight was sensational from inception to conclusion of a
score of rounds. Duggan had his man very weak, but
Lalor’s cleverness saved him. The Australian won on
points. * * »
Late files tell that Australian middleweight
champion Tim Murphy has been matched to fight crack
Californian Neill at ’Frisco, Aug. 27. Pugs, to get 72 per
cent, of gross “gate.” Clubs competed keenly for the
battle, sealed bids being sent in. Successful tenderers
offered 2 per cent, more than next highest. Winner is to
get 70 and loser 30 per cent, of fighters’ whack.
’Rastlers Harry Dunn and giant Teuton Ren-
nert are not likely to get to it. Rennert challenged in
Sydney. Dunn planked down a “ pony ” with Greymouth
(M.L.) Star and expressed willingness to find £2OO if
necessary. Rennert has since been dumb as an oyster.
Marvellous how money up and a businesslike attitude
silences ’em—particularly the wrestling bluffer.
* * » *
Dave Strickland, who came across from Menzies,
W.A., at Easter, to compete in two foot-races—Stawell
Easter Gift, 130yds. handicap (£7O), and the Eight-Hours’
Sheffield Handicap £3o)—cantered home a winner in both
events. His only performance hitherto was his annexa-
tion of a £l5 handicap in W.A., three years ago, and it
was but natural that the best peds. in Australia, whom he
met at Stawell, in their anticipatory tips, gave him no
mention. When, however, the lanky, 13st., fair-haired,
modest youth of 22 won his several heats, almost every
other man left in the final accused him of “cronk” per-
formances, threatened to have his scalp, and declared
that, if he won, they’d have him “ rubbed out.” On the
following day, however, when the final was run, these
same accusers had the nerve to approach him and say,
“ Save a ‘ tenner ’ with you, Strickland ? ” “ No, thanks,”
was the reply ; “ I’ll have the whole hog or nothing ! ” and
now, in the teeth of protests and interprovincial enquiries,
Strickland is still calmly waiting to receive “ the whole
hog,” and it’s a guinea to a gooseberry he gets it.
* * * •
Ed. Bulletin.— Re par. (8., 5/5/’00) anent a
certain big athletic olub asking ped. to send “sisters’
names (if any).” You say, “ Why- not cousins and aunts.”
Ped. did send cousins and aunts, also grandfathers, grand-
mothers, and a list of other relations that would do credit
to one of the W.A. Six Families. The A.C. is now trying
to connect him with “Hutchens or Price” (presumably
Harry and Joe of that ilk). Why not black Charlie
Samuels ?—Sponddlix.
* * * *
Sydney football season opened Saturday, and
district matches were in evidence for the first time.
Players lacked condition woefully and combination was
almost as bad. Of first-grade matches, “Uni’s.” looked
to have a cinch on South Sydney, but latter sprung a big
surprise and won by 11 to 5. Glebe scored 2 points more
than E. Suburbs ; Newtown went under to W. Suburbs
(6 to nil), and N. Sydney won from Balmain in the last
few minutes by Bto 5. This match was played on the
loser’s ground. Balmain barrackers made a dead set
against the referee, and gave him a parlous time from end
to end. At the close he had to be escorted away, and
could only get out of the suburb disguised. If a referee
at a bruising match were treated in this way there’d be a
howl throughout the land.
Hawksburn, the erstwhile popular juniors, suc-
ceeded in winning the Vic. cricket championship amongst
the senior teams this year. With the usual conservatism
of selection committees, little notice was taken of the
coming premiers, and out of the score of players who re-
presented Victoria against N.S.W., S.A., and Tasmania,
the club had not a solitary rep.
* * m *
English cricket season opened on Easter Monday.
Briggs has quite recovered, and plays again for Lancashire,
which will have MacLaren right through. Major Poore
and F. S. Jackson are in S’Africa. A. E. Stoddart has
finally retired from big cricket. G. L. Jessop has been
elected captain of Gloucester, vice Troup. Season will be
dull, with nothing but county fixtures, and M.C.C. alone
expects takings at Lords to drop several thousands.
* * ■* *
E. W. Milligan, one of the best of Yorkshire’s
cricketers, was killed in the last attempt by Plumer to
relieve Mafeking. Milligan played for his county in 1899,
and did good work with both bat and ball, his fast bowl-
ing being frequently useful.
• * * *
New sculling luminary Tressider figured at
Port Hunter regatta (N.S.W.), recently, and had a big
task set him in the Professional Scullers’ Handicap, but,
all the same, another 100yds. would, perhaps, have seen
him win. A. F. Chapman (scr.) passed the flag first, with
Tressider (38sec. behind) second, and Pellman (15sec.
behind) third. Tressider caught Pullman at the mile,
where Chapman led by 15 lengths. Half-a-mile further
it looked as if Tressider had a chance of just snatching
the race out of the fire, but Chapman set-to so effectually
that he reached the finish a bare length to the good.
Tressider’s efforts stamp him a champion—he pulled
up without having turned a hair.
# * » »
Turns out now that veteran Peter Kemp, who
trained the Wallsend (N.S.W.) sculler, Worboys, for
his match with Tressider, thought former had a soft snap,
and caused money to go on him. Two days before Wor-
boys went over the course very fast—and left the race
there. Worboys worked himself up to a high pitch of
anxiety just prior to the struggle, and old Peter’s hopes
fell. A brisk walk had a good effect, but when the big
Wallsender went to the start, he got a bad attack of the
shakes, which grew worse as Tressider gradually made up
the big handicap conceded. Had Worboys been cast in
the Bill Beach mould, the race would have been a moral
for him. Beach could go dead to sleep an hour before
his biggest matches.
* * * *
“Crab”: Prospects of a world’s sculling struggle
as far as Gaudaur (present holder) is concerned are appa-
rently remote. Hunter River (N.S.W.) crack, Towns,
writes from ’Ome that he has frequently offered to go to
Toronto and meet the Canadian if exes were allowed, but
Gaudaur won’t give a cent and refuses to row anywhere
bub at his own door (250 miles from Toionto Bay).
’Twould cost a lump to get there with boat and gear, but
if his benefit and that London Sportsman subscription
pan out, Towns will make the trip rather than let the
wily Canuck’s bluff go. The calm, dead waters of Rat
Portage will go against Towns, as he revels in it when
rough, but it’s odds on that the Cornstalk will have his
journey for nil, as Gaudaur evidently doesn’t want to pull
any more. Not improbable that another big sculling
race will be seen on the Parramatta ere long. Tressider,
who put Worboys down so easily t’other day, is eager to
have a cut at Stanbury, and the latter has said he doesn’t
mind tackling the game again provided his old backers
will come up. Tressider, ’bis said, can stake £2OO. Stan-
bury looks every bit as well as of yore, and is still far
from being old. Stanbury has been a Govt, contractor of
late and has chiefly been engaged on building telegraph-
lines.
* * * *
Plugger Bilmartin has been wbooping things
up a bit in W.A. A-top of Fremantle successes, he
scooped three and finished second in another out of five
events at Perth recently.
* * * •
Racing cyclists have strangled their game.
Firms retaining riders met in Melbourne t’other day and
practically decided not to go on, so that the abolition of
paid wheelmen is a “ cert.” An exodus follows in con-
sequence. Bill Martin goes to “ Yurrup ” from W.A.
Dusky-hued Steve Gordon lately left Sydney for ’Murka.
Walne is off ’Ome, and Bob Lewis talks of keeping him
company.
* • « •
Acting-Judge Johnston, at Bendigo County
Court, passed some pertinent remarks on the bike-race
subject. Will Matthews, runner-up in last Austral
Wheel Race, was sued by his trainer for a balance of £l2
due on a “one-third” agreement re the stake money.
Judge Johnston, ere finding for plaintiff with costs,
“ commented on the shameless manner in which Matthews
had admitted having competed dishonestly in various
events, and thereby deceived those people who were
foolish enough to back men of his stamp.” Are the com-
mittee of the L. V. W. listening, or is the “ sport ” so dirty
that they have given up all idea of cleansing it ?
* * • •
M. League of Wheelmen made a beautiful
bungle over the disqualification of Sutherland, picked to
go to Paris and “ passed out” for demanding “appearance-
money” from two sport bodies. Sutherland’s counsel
pointed out that the League had acted illegally and that
his client should have been heard in defence. Matter was
consequently re-opened, and a charge was also brought
against E. Reynolds and the Canterbury A. and 0. Club,
on the ground that the club had paid Reynolds’ boat-fare
from Auckland to race at their meeting. League con-
sidered that if Sutherland were suspended several other
riders and clubs would have to be similarly treated, re-
sulting in a deadlock in sport. Also, if the Canterbury
clubs were suspended, four or five members of council
would be prevented from acting. Ultimately decided that
the best way out would be to condone all breaches of
rules re exes and appearance-money up to date. Suther-
land and Reynolds will now visit Paris, and two Auck-
landers, Tierney and Draffin, may go “ on their own."
• • • *
Farce of League of M.L. Wheelmen disquali-
fying Sutherland for seeking “appearance-money” is
being laughed at everywhere. One could understand an
amateur being thrust aside for seeking appearance-money,
but the idea of disqualifying a professional for looking
after his living is a bit too much for the ordinary every-
day mind.
* • • • •
N. Bowling Association’s rink supremacy
was won by Balmain, Saturday, with 5 points (29-24).
City was the other club represented in the final. Last
year City Club owned all three blue-ribbon events ; this
season Balmain has taken two away—lndividual and
Rink. , . , ,
Final of Tas. Individual Bowling Championship,
played at Hobart the other day, was a game worth
seeing. Contestants were Mapley and Cnsp ; Mapley got
home last year. Crisp had held the title previously. Both
showed exceptional form. Up to the 36th end they had
tied four times and were 26 all. 40th end saw another tie
—3O all. Then came the tussle, and Crisp finished one
point ahead (31-30). m t *
Premier cueist Fred Weiss showed brilliant
form in Sydney last week, and emphasised his claim to
pre-eminence south of the line. Conceding 1000 in 2500
to that old warrior and ex-champion of the mother pro-
vince, Ted James, Weiss (first night) compiled breaks of
161, 150, 87, and 66 (unfinished). Scores then stood :
Weiss (in play), 834 ; James, 1271. James’ best were 41
and 35. Second night Weiss tacked 31 to his unfinished
66, and, playing sure and deadly, owned the table nearly
the whole of the evening ; his biggest breaks were 173,
126 (beautifully played from a double-baulk), 88, 83,74,60,
and several others in the 40’s and 50’s. Balls, as a rule,
were left safe. James got to the end of his tether with
46, 40, and 37. Scores : Weiss (in play), 1666 ; James,
1432. Friday night saw the end. Weiss fairly excelled
himself. Compilations of 125, 103, 86, 62, and 57 were
notched by him, and, finally, a remarkably quickly-put-
together 175. James did better this time with breaks of
77, 62, 44, and 34. Weiss won with 611 in hand over and
above the start of 1000 allowed. A match between Weiss
and Smith (Victoria’s crack) is on the tapis.
» • » •
The cable that Mr. Leslie Walford, Sydney,
had been winning at London (Eng.) Gun Club matches,
did not come as a surprise to Sydney shooters. Ere leav-
ing Sydney a few months ago, Mr. Walford showed
himself a good shot, and was improving every week. He
was on a very handy mark, and as the London and
Sydney Clubs are reciprocal in the matter of handicaps,
he must have had a good time against the Britishers.
* * « •
Sydney athletic clubs have surfeited the pug.-
going public with cheap and nasty novice tourneys ; nence
more often than not there are scores of empty benches
round the ring. Novices, too—that is novices with any
heart for the game—are becoming fewer every week, so
that events cannot be drawn out as before, which means
that profits are scant. One purse offered recently dwin-
dled down in fivers from £25 to £lO as the affair pro-
gressed, and the ultimate winner, it is stated, could only
be persuaded to refrain from “ ohucking up ” the whole
thing and “blabbing” to the papers by having a soft
snap in the semi-final guaranteed nim. Nice 1
* « * »
“F.”: Re rat-killing and sex-considerations.
Some 14 years ago, “ Montie,” an ex-London light-weight
pug. and dog-fancier, used to ran a most successful rat-
pit in Wakefteld-street, Auckland (M.L.). Every sport
brought his own dog, and there was healthy betting and
a jovial crowd. But none of us, with our crack “ foxies,”
could look near Montie’s own little toy bull-terrier,
Peter,” which had all his teeth drawn but the canines,
and never made two bites at a rat. When ratting was
over, for a little shilling pool Montie would put Peter and
his sister into the pit for a scrap. They boxed like two
Griffos, standing on their hind legs and sparring away till
one or other would get a “ holt,” and then they’d roll
over and worry. No consideration of sex—they went
“ all out."
* • * •
Apropos cyclist Hales’s gruelling grind of 100
miles a day (Sundays excepted) for 12 months, now in
progress at ’Ome and successful so far, a Yank is engaged
wheeling 100,000 in five years. He started four years ago,
and in the first 12 months covered 12,497 miles; next year,
26,252 were thrown behind ; in ’9B he traversed 30,025.
What was done last year hasn’t yet been given to the
hungering world.
Another Duke of Athol yarn: “We wasn’t
after the Dook at all; old Jimmy (Gemma-di-Vergy) was
our cut; but the old horse ’ud have nothing to ao with
strangers, and was playin’ up, so we left him an’ took the
Dook. We got frightened about the Dook, him bein’ so well
marked ; so we done for ’im, and fixed ’im up just as he
was found.”
* » • •
Several gen’emen of color have joined the noble
army of punters, and at Randwick, on Saturday, they
made a big race with the Chinamen to be the first to have
their tenner on the good things. The white trash were
not in it with them.
V # * #
“ Scrip” : I came across a well-to-do individual
the other day who backs his fancies —if he has any—at
every race-meeting, no matter where held. He is a close
follower of the game, and goes simply on paper form.
Told me he hadn’t been on a racecourse for nine years !
A veritable stay-at-home backer.
• * * •
An unattractive-looking, ungroomed prad saun-
tered home in a two-mile trot at Ashburton (M.L.) lately,
and paid £26 12s. tote-div. Owner of second horse rushed
wildly to secretary, and protested on ground that win-
ner’s rider had weighed-in over weight without having
previously declared to that effect. ’Twas then found
that second’s rider was in same predicament, and objec-
tion was withdrawn. Excited owner of the third then
protested against first two on ground already stated, and
when it was shown that he too was in same boat, he
retired crestfallen and grieved silently in a corner of the
paddock.
r * * » •
There’s always a possibility of getting a div. in
a trot in M.L. however slow-going and common. Riders
getting excited in close finishes in trots, are apt to urge their
mokes too much and make ’em break. A thumping div.-
paver—only 30s. on him—was streaking for home (at
Wellington, M.L.) when an opponent broke him up.
’Twas near the post and the pair galloped for it, the un-
backed one getting there. Stewards passed both out, and
gave stake to third horse, an innocent-looking nag with
the bushranging name of Steve Hart. Even when an
owner isn’t on the job and hasn’t backed his horse he is
apt to get the stake foisted on to him in Maoriland.
W. C. Jackson, better known as “Newhaven,”
was the most successful rider in Australia for the season
just ended. Since October last Jackson has banked some
£B5O as the result of his season’s riding, having won thirty
races, besides numerous seconds and thirds. “New-
haven,” like the majority of the world’s cracks, is a firm
believer in “ Dunlops,” and all his victories during the
past season have been secured on these popular tyres.*
» * * *
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
Rather a common dodge of some bread
cheese sportsmen is to give secretaires cheq ,
nomination and acceptance fees, receiving afe po
change. Latter keeps them going; the ch ®9
dishonored. Some M.L. clubs are getting °P , ,
gents with both feet, advertising names in
calendar. When it comes to that it s a case o p .
publicity.
* * •
A rather nobby horse, who had been running m
some dog-hole of a place, was given a gallop in _
company at a late M.L. meet. The crafty owner
hankering after shekels that day, and gave the j
ful instructions to view the race from the rear, inis
faithfully done to the straight, when a suddenp
thunder so terrified the nag that he darted fonvard, ran
through the field despite the mannikin s hard pulling,
and shot past the post like greased go««on
another half mile ere he could be stopped. The owners
face was a study in black, and he breathed hard when he
heard the div.-£22. Jock said he coukin t help it he
supposed it was an “ intervention of providence. Owner
told him to go to —Heaven.
A Wellington (M.L.) groom recently left a
valuable nag in stable for a few minutes in early morni g,
and on returning found it had disappeared, although the
gate was closed An all-day search by the police proved
resultless. Same evening the animal w “ “
his box, beautifully clipped, his tail mcdy docked and a
blue ribbon in his mane. The
knew his show-ringy-looking prad-
city have since been treated similarl}> all ” eln =
on the evening of steal-day. Efforts to discover the
crank have been unsuccessful.
When they put a man in
gaol lie cannot follow his
natural inclination. His
enjoymentof life is limited.
He cannot eat what he
wants to. He is limited to
a very frugal diet. He is
alive'to oe sure, but life
doesn’t possess very many
advantages. Are not all
these things equally true of
a dyspeptic? For all of
the real enjoyment he gets
out of life he might as well
be in gaol. He cannot eat
what lie likes, nor as much
of it as he would like. If
he transgresses any of the
rules of his diet, he is pun-
ished for it. He suffers
much; gets little sym-
pathy. Dyspepsia starts
with indigestion, and may
lead to almost anything.
Indigestion meansa variety
of things—it shows itself
in many ways. At first,
perhaps, a little heaviness
in the stomach, a little
sourness, windy belchings,
and heartburn. Headaches
begin to come pretty soon after that, and bilious-
ness and a foul taste in the mouth in the morning.
Chronic constipation is almost inevitable, and it is
probably tlie most serious trouble that ever takes
hold of a man. Its seeming simplicity is the thing
that makes it most dangerous, because it leads to
neglect. Constipation means that the body is
holding poisonous, impure matter that should be
gotten rid of. The poison is being re-absorbed
into the blood, and the whole body is being filled
it. Impurity in the blood may lead to almost any
disease. There is no telling what may come of it.
Constipation is the start of it all. And yet people
are careless about it. It is the most serious thing
in the world, and the easiest to cure if you go
about it right. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
cure constipation. Cure it positively, certainly,
infallibly. Cure it so it stays cured. Cure it so
you can stop taking medicine. And that is some-
thing that no other remedy in the world will do.
They positively cure biliousness, indigestion, dys-
pepsia, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples and blotches, a perfect
blood purifier, and for female ailments they stand
alone as a woman’s best friend. Sold by chemists
and storekeepers, price Is. l|d. per bottle, or six
bottles 6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Corn-
stock Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-
street, Sydney. They are packed in amber bottles,
and full name blown thereon.
N.S.W. Postmaster-General Crick will not
be happy until he holds the portfolio of Lands,
which he is thoroughly competent to administer.
The latest scheme was to appoint burly Hassall as
“Commercial Agent” in London, and thus enable
the P.M.G. to get his billet. But the Ministerial
supporters and the public did not respond to the
feelers thrown out, and the move is off for the
present.
The action of J. R. Dickson, the late
Premier of the Bananaland Continuous Ministry,
in opposing the efforts of the Federal delegates,
with Barton at their head, in their struggles in Lon-
don, is a beautiful satire on the “Wait for
Queensland ! ” cry of a year or so back. On the
first occasion on which N.S.W.’s chosen represen-
tative needs all available help, it is “ Our Natural
Ally ” who turns dog on him.
A complete return of expenditure under
the head of plague expenses is to be called for as
soon as N.S.W. Parliament meets. All sorts of
statements are in circulation about how the money
has been going, and in their own interests the
Ministry must make a full statement. Mr.
M ‘Creche, superintendent of the cleansing of the
quarantined areas, has been engaged at a very
high figure and other expenses are in proportion.
St. Kilda newsagent to a Bulletin man :
“ I’m not a pro-Boer because I find that when
people buy a paper, or a pound of sausages, or a
bar of soap from a man they expect to get his im-
mortal soul as well, and if they don’t get the soul
thrown in they go elsewhere. The other day in
talking war to an old customer, I chanced to re-
mark that I did not think Mafeking would be able
to hold out. He gave me a look of unspeakable
loathing and wheeled out of the shop. Ten
minutes later he sent a note by messenger to say
that I need not trouble to supply his household
with papers and periodicals for the future as he
only bought off patriots.”


“ALWAYS ON TOP”
AND LIKELY TO
STAY THERE.
Derbv}
Tobacco,
Best,
Purest,
Most Fragrant
// //
V/ &
'3? ;
s\
«§I
fP o
s np RK Y
n
V ;
/:
ASK FOR IT ALWAYS.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY COMPANY.
187 Pitt-street, Sydney
(directly opposite Civil Service Stores).
187 Pitt-street, Sydney
LATEST WAR SOUVENIRS.
MAFEKING’S HERO.
GOLD Hifle Brooches. Price 6/6.
GOLD Lee-Metford Cartridge Brooches. Price 11/0.
1000
Different Gold War Souvenirs to
Choose from at 187 Pitt Street.
Baden-Powell
Gold Pendants. Price 7/0.
GOLD Lee Metford Cartridge
Charms or Gold Pins. Price 6/6.
N.S.W. Lancers GOLD
Charms. Price 3/-.
Hat
0. H. Grant, M.L.C. (Tas.), chairman of
the Cascade Co., keeps in his cellar “Cascade
ale” 20 years old, and serves it up to specially-
valued guests in wine-glasses.
In the signing of a testimony in R.
D. Meagher’s favor by the Speaker of N.S.W.
Assembly, in his official capacity, was there not some
savour of an indecent approaching of the Bench by
the Legislature ? It is a matter in which even the
appearance of evil cannot be too carefully avoided.
The Acetylene Gas Company of Austra-
lasia, Ltd., is to be congratulated on its success
at the Royal Agricultural Show, having secured no
less than twenty-five first prizes for its exhibits,
consisting of automatic, non-automatic and port-
able generators, also buggy, miner’s, stevedore’s,
bandsmen’s, firemen’s, bicycle, table, hand and
other lamps for acetylene gas. Ordinary carriage-
lamps converted into acetylene lamps; correspond-
ence invited on all outdoor and indoor lighting.*
Since the war began there have been
nearly 100 casualties among the N.S.W. troops in
S Africa: 9 killed in action ; 19 died from disease;
46 wounded, missing, 25.
It is pleasant to learn, on Q. Federal dele-
gate Dickson’s own authority, that, since he turned
dog on Australia in England, he has been boycotted
by the other Federal delegates.
M'Kinley will probably be re-elected U.S.
President, for the countless votes brought to
Bryan by his advocacy of the Boer cause will be
severely offset by his pro-silverism and the solid
opposition of the great monopolistic interest.
Dewey has no real chance, and never had ; his
show was in the first instance somewhat pre-
judiced by his having married a R.C. wife—at
any rate the incident was artfully used against
him for all it was worth, and matters have not
been improved by the ambitious lady publicly re-
nouncing the Pope and going back to Protestantism
after being prominent in the R.C. camp for years.
It is already being effectively said that a man who
changes his politics and a woman who changes her
religion for the purpose of being President and
Presidentess of a Republic can never wave a vic-
torious banner in the political arena of the U.S.
The long-expected list of increments in
N.S.W. Public Service dating from July 1 last
appeared on May 18. Out of £14,000 appro-
E mated by Parliament for these increments only
alf has been allotted, some 600 officers partici-
pating. As the number eligible under the Board’s
own regulation is more than double this number,
they (the Board) practically declare that a
tremendous percentage of public servants are not
fit for promotion to the extent of £lO each.
Strange to say, the officers concerned do not agree
with this view. The portioning out of these in-
crements is absolutely at the discretion of a sub-
Board under the P.S. Board, and the Star
Chamber character of the whole business has so
dissatisfied the Service that an effort is being
made to ventilate the matter in Parliament. The
Public Service Association will also be appealed
to, and the result will probably decide the future
of that body.
The publicity given to the fact that
Messrs. Lyne and See intended to appoint their
sons to be lieutenants in the new Sydney half-
squadron of N.S.W. Lancers brought such a storm
about their heads that the nominations have boon
hurriedly withdrawn. Mr. Darley, son of the
Chief Justice, who is not so strongly objected to
by the troopers, will probably succeed in holding
on to his commission. The whole affair, rendered
possible by the present peculiar military pro-
cedure, which seems to be quite at the mercy of
any politician temporarily m power, has excited
an uneasy feeling throughout volunteer circles. It
has also considerably alienated the support of the
volunteers from the Ministry, who up to now have
stood well in their regard owing to their ultra-
jingoistic action re the S’African contingents.
Unfortunately for themseives Ministers have ven-
tured to presume upon their supposedly invulner-
able popularity.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
“The Relief of Mafeking ” was such a
splendid exouse for a general drunk that it is
almost a pity to dash the enthusiasm of the
brokers and other boys by pointing out that —even
if the British yarn, per the Rhodesian press, is to
be relied upon—the Mammoth of the war was
only about the size of an average plague-rat, after
all. Boiled down, there were about 1600 British,
regulars and irregulars, fighting in Mafeking ; and
probably about the same number—or a few more
—or a good many more—outside. No one knows
how many Boers there were; but they could not
have numbered very many more than the be-
sieged—for the simple reason that all the Boers
who could possibly be got together, and all the
best of the Boer forces, were down South and
East fighting the greatly superior forces of Methuen
and Buffer; and Cecil Rhodes is firm in his
asservation that the Boers had not more
than 35,000 fighters at any time to oppose
England’s 200,000 odd “ the biggest army
ever transported across seas.” What Boers
there were to spare—the ruck of the Boer
army—stayed round about Mafeking, and fired
guns at it occasionally without doing much
damage. Occasionally there was a perfunctory
sort of attempt at assault; but the armed Boer
peasants, like other armed peasants, are not the
men to attack a garrison partly composed of regu-
lars—and they have no bayonets. Cronje seemed
to put a little heart into the “ siege ” while he was
there; but when he was gone it seems to have just
drifted on for form’s sake. One measure of the
importance of a siege is the number of lives lost
in defence; and Baden-Powell’s losses were
apparently so trifling that they are not mentioned.
“Baden-Powell sent out bulletinssays one
Sydney paper, “as though the whole siege was a
vast picnic party.” Well, as a siege, it was. The
British hadn’t much to eat; but that was the
worst of it. Their health was good ; they played
polo and other games; the investment was so open
that they were always able to get communications
through—Baden-Powell even revised the proofs of
his book on scouting, and sent them to his London
publisher; and the thing drifted on for seven
months tiff British reinforcements came, and the
Boers melted away. But to compare Mafeking
with Gibraltar ! Saragossa ! ! Sebastopol! ! !
Plevna ! ! ! ! —what are the Jingoes giving us ?
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY, ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
RICHMOND, VICTORIA ;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
6s 6d A Watch & Chain for 6s 6d
Ǽ
/* v 1899. To every
purchaser of one of
our 2s 6d “Burmese”
Silver Chains (either
Ladies’ or Gent.’s)we
will present, on pay-
ment of 4s extra,
an OPEN-FACE
FULL- DAY KEY-
LESS WATCH which
we guarantee a per-
fect timekeeper.
There are no con-
ditions or guessing about this watch. We send the watch
and chain registered (any colony) on receipt of postal note
for 6s 6d and 6d for postage. We make this extraordinary
offer merely to circulate our price-list and advertise the
quality of our goods. Watch and chain sent on approval;
if returned within 14 days, money refunded.
H. POTIER & CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney.
IF you are dissatisfied
with your Draper call in or write to us for
our New Season’s Patterns and Prices.
HORDERN’S LEAD THE VAN.
A lid. Post will place you
in communication with us.
Pitt St,
FOR
EVER.
Please Mention The Bulletin.
“A TRIP TO THE RACES.”
(Human Races).
“IMPERIAL” Bicycles for 1900 just landed,
fitted with Westwood steel rims and Dunlop tyres.
Agents wanted where not already represented in
Australasia. Write for catalogue. Buy your bicycle
from the factory at factory prices.
A few Second-hand Machines fitted with new tyres and in
good order, all of well-known makes. A post-card will
bring you a list. “ Duck ” brakes and carriers will fit
any bicycle. Oil and Gasoline Engines for launches,
electric lighting, pumping, cordial factories, printing and
general power, from 1 h.p. tosoli.p.
J. F. McDermott and Company,
Sole General Agents in Aus. for “ IMPERIAL ” Bicycles.
Central Depot—37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8 sharp. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
NANCE O’NEIL SEASON.
LAST 3 NIGHTS! .-. LAST 3 NIGHTS!
The Celebrated Drama,
Oliver Twist.
SATURDAY, May 26, Farewell Appearances, “ MAGDA.’’
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—6s., Bs., 25., and Is.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. R. BROUGH.
LAST NINE NIGHTS OF TIIF.
BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY •
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, SOWING THE WIND.
Saturday, Monday, THE SECOND Mrs. TANQUERAY.
Tuesday and Wednesday, A VILLAGE PRIEST.
Thursday, May 31, DANDY DICK.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
|"YCEUM THEATRE, BYDNEY.
LAST 3 NIGHTS and FAREWELL APPEARANCES of
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
LAST 3 NIGHTS I .-. LAST 3 NIGHTS !
The Shamrock and The Rose.
Prioes as Usual. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.45.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
FIRST APPEARANCE IN SYDNEY OF
DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN.
PAUL MARTINETTI and His Company.
BILLY McOLAIN and MADAM CORDELIA,
THE GREAT RUSSIAN NFAVSKY FAMILY.
JAS. BAIN. ARTHUR CRANE. ALMA GRAY.
And all our Great Company.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
INSTANTANEOUS and EMPHATIC SUCCESS of the
Great Ludwig Amann day ial
Prof. ALMOND, Champion Specialty Dancer.
Mr. TOD CALLAWAY, LITTLE FANNY POWERS,
CHAS. SEEL, Miss MAUD NEEDHAM, Prof. DAVY’S
LILLIPUTIANS, POPE and SAYLES, E. SULLIVAN,
DORA TAYLOR,and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
H EATR E ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
STH WEEK!
AND CONTINUED EXTRAORDINARY SUCCESS !
* THE LAPPER OF LIFE *
Or, Gordons to the Front.
Specially Selected Company. Military Pageant. Storm-
ing of Dargai Heights. Acrobatic Sensation of the Age,
THE HUMAN LADDER.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SIXTH WEEK !
CHARLES ARNOLD
And His English Comedy Company.
340 Nights at the Strand Theatre, London.
“What Happened to Jones.”
Preceded by “ AN EMPTY STOCKING.”
IF IT HURTS YOU TO LAUGH,
DON’T SEE WHAT HAPPENED TO JONES.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
(Late Alexandra).
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
FRIDAY, May 25th, Last Night of PINAFORE.
(Matinee Queen’s Birthday, at 2.)
SATURDAY, May 26th, The Pirates of Penzance, for
Last Six Nights of Opera Season.
Ballerinas of the Royal Comic Opera Co. Full Chorus
and Orchestra under the direction of M. Leon Caron.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 5s ; Stalls and Family Circle,
3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. H. G. L. Wyld and 0. H. Freedman.
Every Afternoon, at 3, and Evening, at 8.
HT wo Hours in South Africa with
the Troops, by Biograph. |
Direct from the Palace Theatre, London.
SEVEN MILES of FILMS.
GENUINE WAR PICTURES TAKEN ON THE SPOT.
Afternoon, doors open 2.30, commence at 3.
Evening, doors open at 7.30, commence at 8.
C. H. FREEDMAN, Business Manager.
£XH7bITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
TH€ AQUARIUM-
WANTED some LIVE CROCODILES, over
15ft. in length. State Price, delivered alive,
and in good condition to
J. E. SHERRARD,
Secretary.
if* 9 1*5
Foreigi) Stamps.
I’-TS 7 Transvaal, 6d ; 11 Cape, 1/3 ; 6
Orange F.S., 6d ; 7 Natal, 1/- ; 4 British
onth Africa, 1/- ; 9 Borneo, 1/6 ; 10 Brazil,
Gd ;40 Japan, 1/6; 21 Heligoland, 1/6 : 100
Africa, 5/- ; 4 Tunis, Id ; 16 Swiss, 4d ;
Backets 250 (mixed), 1/-; 500, 2/- ; 1000
3/6 ; Postage 2d. Remit P.N. or stamps.
ACKLAND & CO.,
105 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
Henry Godfrey and william Godfrey, Bons of
CHARLES GODFREY, late of the city of Birming-
ham, England, Licensed Victualler, deceased, if alive,
should at once communicate with the undersubscribed,
when each of them will be informed of the extent of his
interest under his father’s will. If either or both of the
abovenamed are dead, any information relating to the
time and place of death, and the whereabouts of surviving
children (if any), should be communicated without delay
to JOHNSONS BARCLAY & LOWE,
36 Waterloo-street, Birmingham, England, Solicitors of
the Executors of the said Charles Godfrey, deceased.
The Commonwealth Bill.
The Commonwealth Bill is now awaiting its
second reading in the House of Commons. And
the Chamberlain amendments, as far as can be
judged from the imperfect synopsis cabled, have
crystallised to these :
1. The original preamble says Australia has agreed to
unite under the Grown and “ under the Constitution
hereby established.” The words “ under the Constitution
hereby established ” are struck out. The Crown brooks
no rivalry with a mere popular Constitution.
2. The original Bill says “ This Act shall bind the
Crown.” That is struck out. The Crown declines to be
bound. It is treating with Australia as with a dependent
vassal, not as with an independent subject.
3. Boom is left for Westralia to come in.
4. The original Bill provides that the Bill itself, and the
laws of the Federal Parliament, shall bind the Courts,
Judges, and people of the States ; and shall be in force on
all British ships, except war-ships, if their first port of
clearance and port of destination are in the Common-
wealth. This is amended to give the Crown the right to
grant special leave of appeal from any judgment of the
Federal Supreme Court. Which secures that Australian
justice is finally decreed in England.
5. The “ Colonial Laws Act, 1865," is applied to the Com-
monwealth laws. The essence of this Act is that if a
“ Colonial ” law conflicts with an Imperial Act, the
“ Colonial ” law is invalid to the extent of the conflict.
The application to the Commonwealth means that we
federate, not under the Crown, but under the British Par-
liament ; since the British Parliament will have the
power by contrary legislation to nullify any law of the
Commonwealth.
6. Clause 74 (the clause most of the trouble has been
about) of the original Bill says no appeal shall be per-
mitted to the Queen in Council in matters involving the
interpretation of the Constitution or of the Constitution
of a State. Chamberlain struck this out altogether. He
now restores it, with the addendum “ unless the Gover-
nor-General or the State Governors, with the consent of
the Executive, agree to an appeal to the Imperial Court."
This leaves constitutional questions in the hands of the
Federal Supreme Court, unless the Federal Executive per-
mits an appeal.
The same clause provided that, though the right to
appeal to the Queen in Council remained, the Federal
Parliament might limit the use of the right. Chamber-
lain struck this out. He now restores it, with addendum
that the Federal Parliament’s limitation is subject to the
Queen’s veto. This leaves the British money-lender’s
privilege intact, unless the Queen agrees that it be taken
away from him.
• • • •
Apart from the Crown’s jealous stickling for its
supremacy—its natural refusal to treat with the
Australian people as with an equal—the two im-
portant points in this list are the reservation of
Privy Council appeals and the application of the
“Colonial Laws Act.” The maintenance of a
clause reserving Australian constitutional ques-
tions for an Australian court’s final decision,
unless the Australian Federal Executive grants
special leave of appeal, has apparently satisfied the
Federal delegates, and Chamberlain takes credit
for a “ concession.” He concedes nothing. The
Bill approved by Australia, the Bill whose com-
plete acceptance by the British Parliament Aus-
tralia had reason and right to demand, is still
mutilated and its intention thwarted ; and no
credit accrues to the British Govt, because the
mutilation might have been greater. If the Bill
is passed by the Commons as it stands at
present, and the alteration is confirmed by an
Australian referendum, then it should become an
unwritten law of the Federal Executive to grant
no leave of appeal, but to preserve the authority
of the Federal Supreme Court as it stands in the
original Bill. Otherwise the Court may be in-
fluenced to give judgment with an eye to. the
Executive, and such an influence cannot fail to
injure the Court’s value and independence. As
regards the application of the Colonial Laws
Act, the Federal delegates are said to be ‘ im-
pressed by the amendment,” whether favorably
or unfavorably does not appear. But if
its scope has been accurately transmitted,
then it is an amendment which should be
fought as energetically as was the amendment to
the Privy Council clause. Within the Common
wealth’s territory the Commonwealth’s laws should
be unhampered by Imperial Acts. Either we do,''
or we do not, exercise tne right of self-government
within our own boundaries; and the whole effect of
the Commonwealth Bill is to reiterate that we do.
Then why should an Imperial Act invalidate a
Commonwealth law where the interests of the
Commonwealth are exclusively concerned ? Why
should we Federate, not only under the Crown,
but also under the British Parliament ? It is
easy to say that the power of the House of Com-
mons is sure to be discreetly exercised, but why
give it the power ? There will be so many leaks
of “ prerogative,” and “ privilege,” and “reserva-
tion ” in the Commonwealth Bill that, as a vessel
of self-government, it will be legally unseaworthy.
* * • *
British politicians have been accustomed to
boast that, in so far as concerns “ her colonies,”
Britain’s attitude is directly opposed to that of
France or Germany. These countries, we are
told, use their “colonies” for the benefit of the
central power; and value them as they value com-
mercial speculations, by the profit which
they pay on capital invested. Britain, on the
other hand, rules India for the benefit of the
native races—is a sort of Hindoo fairy
godmother, making roads, administering laws,
feeding the famine-stricken and healing the
plague-stricken ; and if Britain takes yearly from
India some £25,000,000 in taxation, if she finds in
the Indian army and the Indian civil service a
happy hunting-ground where Englishmen may
make their fortunes, if she secures in India a rich
market for British manufactures, then it is all for
the profit of India, and as a means of showing
further benevolence to the Hindoos. And
doubters are referred with pride to the increasing
population of India—just as a warlike tribe of
ants, if they had the intelligence, might refer
you to the increasing number of meek aphides
whom they enslave and milk. But the gradual
extermination of the population of Fiji, on the
other hand, is not to be referred to British inter-
ference ; but to the visitation of God in the shapes
of religion, rum, and disease. The fact of the
matter is that, however the means of France and
Germany and Britain may differ, their ends are
precisely the same—the “colonies and dependen-
cies” are valued by all in proportion as they
yield profit to the central power. Australia
and Canada are not so well regimented and
officialised as French Algeria and German
Africa; but, as is affirmed by exponents of
the Imperial idea, it is equally their function to
be in peace-time a source of commercial profit,
and in war-time a recruiting-ground for soldiers.
Britain is using Australia and Canada for her own
benefit as relentlessly as she was using America
when the taxed tea was thrown into Boston har-
bour, and the right of Britain to milk her
dependent colonies was supported by the
force of British arms. This century’s method
differs from the last century’s, but the
result aimed at is precisely the same. Hence
the jealousy lest any diminution of the British
supremacy, or even of the nominal British supre-
macy, may be caused by the Commonwealth Bill;
and hence the manner in which the Common-
wealth Bill has been mended, and amended, and
re-amended in the interests of Britain—though it
represents a popular vote of the Australian people
at a time when Australian money and Australian
lives have been recklessly spent in the British in-
terest. The Bulletin is proud to believe, in the
interest of Australian nationality, that the British
effort is in vain. It is as certain as any human
forecast can be, that at the close of the next cen-
tury, if the present scanty population shall have
increased to even half that of America at the pre-
sent day, Australia may be Britain’s ally, but will
no longer be her utensil and dependent.


The Australian Music Books.
ONE SHILLING EACH.
Containing Songs, Ducts,
Piano Solos, Violin Solos, etc.
ALLAN A CO
COLLINS ST.
u
V-
90 King: St., Sydney.
OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS.
FULL SIZE.
New Gold Horse and
Stirrup Pendant, 13s 6d
Registered.
BROOCHES,
SterJing Silver, 3s 6d
Solid Gold, 13s 6d.
CHARMS.
Sterling Silver, 2s 6d.
Solid Gold, 12s 6d.
mr h
i
Solid
Silver
Hat
Pins,
Length
7 inches
Any
Initial,
Extra
Strong,
33
each.
We have an Immense
Stock of Fancy HAT
PINS. From Is G<l
to 5s 6d each.
Emu and Kangaroo Charms.
Gold ss, Silver Gilt, Is 6d.
GOLD HEART PENDANTS.
We have an Immense Variety.
Full size Smaller size
Set with 9c. 15c. 9c. 15c.
Diamond - 55/- 60/- 35/- 40/-
Sapphire - 17/6 20/- 15/- 17/6
Turquoise- 15/- 17/6 12/6 167-
Pearl - - 15/- 17/6 12/6 15/-
Ruby - - 17/6 20/- 15/- 17/6
Opal - - 15/- 17/6 12/6 157-
Plain Gold 10/- 13/6 7/6 11/-
Beal Amethyst,
Topaz, or
Obsidion Heart,
2s 6d, smaller
size Is 6d each.
Lucky Sham-
rock Charm,
Set with
2 Amethysts, or
1 Topaz or
Obsirlion, 4s.
Smaller Size, 3s.
Gold Gem Set
Lucky Wish-
bone Charm,
3s 6d ;
wi' ’’ Pin and
» in, 7s.
Souvenir of
Sydney
STAMP CHARM
Finest Enamel
on Sterling
Silver 6ilt,3s ea.
Solid Gold Faith
Hope & Charity
Pendant, 5a ea.
With Pin and
Chain, 8s 6d.
New Century
Charm,
Finest English
Enamel.
Silver Gilt, 4s 6d
9c. Gold, 12s 6d
Solid Gold
Bird Pendant,
set with 17 Lovely
Opals, 15s.
&
OUR WATCHES HAVE ADVERTISED US
Our Salea Average 1000 a Year.
Every Watch Guaranteed to Wear a Lifetime, and kept in Thorough Repair (Breakages Excepted)
FOR THREE YEARS.
THE GOLDSMITHS’ AND SILVERSMITHS’ ALLIANCE.
SKETCH SHOWING FINE FINISHED
WORKS.
SPECIAL LEVER WATCHES,
EXCEPTIONAL TIMEKEEPERS.
SPECIALLY MADE TO STAND ROUGH
RIDING AND COUNTRY-WEAR.
COMPENSATED BALANCE,
EXTRA JEWELLED and
ADJUSTED.
GENT.'S SIZE.
Silver, open face, 40s
Oxidised „ „ 25s
Nickel ~ „ 25s
Silver Hunters, 45s
I
GENT’S DOUBLE
CASE 14c. GOLD
FILLED CASES,
WARRANTED
TO WEAR 20
YEARS.
A REMARKABLE
VALUE WATCH.
£4 ss.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING
MONOGRAM.
i2s 6d
/
I2S U
12s 6d
12s 6d
LADIES’ SIZE.
Silver, open face, 40s
Oxidised ~ ~ 35s
Silver Hunters 60s
GUARANTEED TO WEAR FOR A LIFE TIME.
The Goldsmiths’ and Silversmiths’
Alliance
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Watches,
Richly Engraved Cases and
Accurate Timekeepers.
oc., 70s ; 14c., 90s ; 18c., 110 s.
Silver, 255, 30s, 455.
OASES IN TEN (10) DIFFERENT DESIGNS.
OUR FAMOUS NICKEL OPEN
FACE LEVER WATCHES.
Accurate Timekeepers.
Exceptional Value.
ENGLISH HALL-MARKED ALBERTS
15c. Gold, Single,
Silver, Single,
9c. Gold, Double,
15c. Gold, Double,
Silver, Double, ■
50/-, 60/-, 70/-
95/-, 110/-, 130/-
7/6, 10/-, 13/6
60/-, 75/-, 90/-
110/-, 130/-, 150/-
10/-, 12/6, 15/-
PLEASE SEND FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED SLIPS OF
LATEST NOVELTIES.
ALL COODS POST FREE.
90 King St. f Sydney.
OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS.
Gold Pin and Chain Charms.
With
Lucky Bean, 7/6. Smaller Size 5/6.
Lucky Bell, 7/6. „ „ 4/6.
Heart, - - 7/6. ~ „ 5/6.
Cross, - - 8/-. Large Size 10/6.
Lucky Bells with Chain,
3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/-.
Latest Novelty Pin, Chain, and Gold
Emu or Kangaroo, 8s Cd.
Charm, only 5s each.
a
15c.
Gold
and
13
First
Quality
Pearls,
255.
16c.
Double
Brooch
with
Chain
and
Treble
Clef, 455.
Latest Novelty Lyre and Treble
Clef Brooch, Extra Strong and
Finely Finished.
and Faith, Hope,
and Charity
Pendant.
8s 6d and 10s each.
Pendants
only 6s 6d.
Solid Gold
Lucky Bean.
Gem Set, with
any Nam",
Q @
I 2 3
Gold
Collar
Pins.
Lace
Scarf
Pins.
Gold
Bead,
2s,
Larger
3s, 4s.
Real
Tur-
quoise
3s,
each.
Real
Pearl 3s
Larger
4s 6d,
7s_6d.
Solid Gold Lucky Pig*,
Charm, 7s 6d.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The law of treasure-trove recently received a
new exposition, when Vic. Full Court decreed that the
drawer of a crossed cheque—subsequently lost—must,
notwithstanding he had stopped payment, duly honor the
same. The cheque in question, drawn by a Melb. firm of
fish-salesmen, had gone missing, and then had presumably
been found by an individual wbo cashed it with a country
publican. The Full Court upheld Judge Gaunt’s decision
“ that the holder of a negotiable security, transferable by
delivery can give a title, which he himsel f does not .possess,
to a bona fide holder for value, and that negligence does
not invalidate the title of a person taking a negotiable
instrument in good faith and for value.” It was admitted,
however, by defendants that plaintiff received the cheque
bona-fide.
* • • •
That was an ugly-looking case in Brisbane, the
other day, where an important clerical official of the engi-
neering branch of the Railway Department, with a salary
of £5OO, compounded with his creditors, amongst whom
were many railway-contractors. One of his secured
creditors (for £270) was an ex-railway-contractor, and to
ein-ht cont ractors and ex-contractors he unsecuredly owed
about £7OO. Also, he was rather heavily indebted to
two Ms.P. He explained at the meeting that the con-
tractors weren’t doing business with the department when
the debts were incurred, and the creditors resolved, by
£2799 against £641, to grant him his discharge forthwith.
Albury storekeepers wbo order goods from
Sydney via Melbourne to save freight have discovered
that articles, particularly of a bottled liquid kind, are
frequently missing. Sydneyside repudiates responsibility,
so the aggrieved traders propose to sue Vic. Govt., as the
authorities there tender a form admitting receipt of such
and such packets from Sydney.
It is usual on long stock-routes for firms to wire
money ahead to their drovers for necessary expenses ;
therefore a certain Australian Govt, is bemoaning the
unauthorised absence of a cunning telegraphist. Mr.
Dotdash being due for six months’ leave, proceeded
to raise the wind. Just before he was relieved he wired
ahead to three different offices telegraph money-order
advices for £5O, each purporting to be from Station Blank
—code-word, etc., being of course all in order. When he
got to each town on his way he produced at the local
office a wire issued at his own office (where there was no
money-order branch) advising him to call at So-and-So for
£5O wired thither. Of course the money was paid, and
the returns duly forwarded to Head Office. Dotdash then
lit out for parts'unknown. Owing to distance and absence
of any original messages it was weeks ere the skein was
disentangled. The enterprising one is said to be in
S’Africa, but as it would cost about £2OO to bring him
back and collect the necessary witnesses, the Department
simply passes on to the next item.
» * * *
In one Maoriland city many attempts have been
made to oppose the incompetent evening newspaper
which locally bosses things. And it really does boss
things, for should a business man dare to advertise in a
new journalistic venture the lordly evening print at once
refuses to accept his advts. 1 Which just about takes the
cake.
N.S.W. Railway Dept, sometime ago resumed
a portion of certain land which had been sold on terms at
£4 per acre by a bank to the occupier. When the latter
got his account from the Dept., it was much under the
amount he expected. He visited the bank, but the
officials professed inability to explain the discrepancy.
He then approached the Railways, where he was informed
that part of the land was a reserved road, of which he
knew nothing but had bought with the rest, and no com-
pensation could be allowed for it. And the Crown had
only received ss. per acre on the rest, and the balance of
15s. due thereon had been deducted from the amount paid
for resumption. If a private individual did business like
this he would soon hear something drop.
THE LATEST “HUM.”
SUBURBAN SWAGMAN: “ Lydy, could you assist a
pore man wot’s come to misfortune through no
fault of ’is own?”
LADY: “ Why, how did you come to this position?”
S. S.: “I had a great longin’ to serve me Queen
and country and bash them there Boers; so I
jiaed the Himperial Bushmen, and was thrown
out at the last moment and left friendless and
far from ’Ome. ” (Sobs.)
(Departs a moment later laden with tucker.)
Sydney spirit-morchants aver that April was the
best month known for years—infant, some say it was a
record, though singularly enough the publicans grumble
more than ever about bad times. Causes assigned for the
increased consumption are plague, early closing, the date
of Easter this year, Contingent departures, and general
jubilation over the turn of the tide in S’Africa.
* • • *
The compositor and all the rest of the staff
rarely fall in so badly as they did the other day in an
Adelaide newspaper office. A firm was advertising the
virtues of its bonedust ; and alongside “ bonedust ” was
the direction to the printer— “ large and heavy.” In
other words, “ use big, black type.” But that staff
wasn’t an expert in bonedust. It didn’t know that if the
grains are coarse or large they choke the drills, and that
if the stuff is heavy it doesn’t go so far to the acre. So it
just announced that (say) Brown’s bonedust was “ large
and heavy ” ; and a few hours afterwards it wondered
what the man was makiug such a row about in the front
office.
* * * *
An important case for squatters and other con-
tractors for sale and delivery was decided by N.S.W.
Supreme Court, May 16. Agents of A. G. Finlay, Clyde,
Q., in May, 1899, sold sheep to Reilly Bros., Te Aro,
N.S.W., on this contract: ' i wethers running on
Clyde Station, number approximately only ; but to be the
whole of the wethers on Clyde.” Plaintiffs complained
that number delivered was considerably short of 16,000,
and brought action for breach of contract. Jury awarded
£248, and defendant appealed for new trial on the ground
that the reference in the contract to the number of
wethers was only an estimate and not a guarantee of
16,000: and that’ what he contracted to sell was the
whole of the wethers on Clyde.” The Court held that
these words formed the dominant portion of the contract,
and unanimously granted a new trial. Darley, C.J., said
that if there had been evidence of misrepresentation or
fraud—if, for example, defendant had tried to deliver
only 1000 or as many as 40,000 sheep, then plaintiff might
have complained he had been misled ; but as there was
no suggestion of that kind he was bound by the plain
terms of the contract.
* • • *
“ Been There ” : Re “ Suity’s” approving refer-
ence to the average-striking method of jury-assessment
(B. 12/5/’00). But, if there be one conscienceless friend of
plaintiff on the jury—one who, under the circumstances,
would be sure to vote for the highest possible amount
within the limits of the claim —his ballot would neutralise
the votes of his fellow-jurymen, who had based their
assessments on an unbiassed view of the equities of the
case.
* * • *
A small Melbourne creditor of a Q’land insol-
vent’s estate got a cheque for his first dividend the other
week. With the cheque came a receipt form to be signed
and posted back to the liquidator at the cost of a 2d.
stamp. Also, the exchange on the cheque was Is. The
man paid the cheque into his account instead of lighting
his pipe'with it, though it would have come to the same
thing either way. He had to make a loss of Bd. on the
transaction, provided that he sent along the receipt.
His dividend was only fid. all told.
* * » »
In Sydney, recently, a man who had had some
clothes washed at a Chinese laundry called for them,
snatched the parcel when produced, and bolted without
paying. The P.M. ruled that this was theft of what,
until the washing had been paid for, was the laundryman’s
property. Which may have been practical justice, but
does not look like law.
• * *
It is a hard row that the fraudulent or forgetful
insolvent has to hoe in S. Australia. What with the acute
and prompt Commissioner Russell on the Bench, and a
persistent official, “ Solicitor to the Court of Insolvency,”
at the table, a bad time awaits the man who files and
then hopes to get through on the plea that he must have
drunk and gambled all the money he can t account for.
“ Just go to gaol a while and think the matter over,” is
becoming almost a formal way of adjourning a case.
» . • *
Several big Australian newspapers have lately
handled in denunciatory vein the Yankee system of com-
bines or trusts. But what is the arrangement under
which cables are supplied to those very papers at the
present time but an application of the trust principle in
its worst form ?
* » • *
“ Albion ” : A man runs up against some queer
risks in railway-travelling. Know a way-back storekeeper
who carries gunpowder with him because he “can’t see
the force of paying 10s. for having 15 bob’s worth of ex-
plosives put into compartment set apart for the purpose.”
He sticks the powder carelessly under the seat to be
kicked by everybody’s heels. Also, I once travelled from
Cootamundra with a case of typhoid. It was in my arms
most of the way, as the compartment was crowded. It
was “going to Sydney hospital.” Again—travelled to
Goulburn with fat old lady with an offensive smell in a
carpet-bag. Officials—suspecting defunct baby—seized
the bag, but found in it only a lot of shells and decom-
posing sea-weed, which the old party had collected at
Manly Beach. The authorities should ordain that all
parcels shall set forth on the outside the nature of their
contents, and surely there should be separate compart-
ments for fever-patients as much as for explosives.
Another night, near Campbelltown, a man’s muzzle-
loading gun went off and shattered a parson’s bottle of
gin in the rack. “ Hum 1” said the owner of the gun,
coolly ; “ thought I had her at half-cock 1”
* • * »
One big Australian tow.i l ately went out to the
nearest vacant place and kicked itseli hard several times.
It had lately been struck by a gentleman “ walking round
the world for a wager.” “One of the conditions,” it was
very explicitly stated, “is that he must neither beg,
borrow, nor spend money.” Ahead of him went a
manager, who billed the town, hired the local theatre and
a band, and arranged three lecture performances. Two
lectures were given—and then the people who hadn t been
paid wanted some money. Applying to the manager they
were given smiles and —“ But, my dear fellow, I’m merely
an agent; you must see my principal.” And the princi-
pal gave them smiles, too, and —“ But, my dear sir, you
knew the terms on which I am travelling, didn’t you
Creditors withdrew to think ; and the gentleman who is
“ walking round the world ” promptly left by next
express train. And from the terminus of that line he
walked on—as far as the deck of the next outgoing
steamer.
* * • *
It is coming. Otago Daily Times Fenwick,
opposing, on behalf of M.L. newspaper owners, the Typo-
graphical Association’s demands for better linotype pay
and increased privileges, told the Conciliation Board that
the lino, was a machine eminently suited for women m
the day-time and also young lads from public schools. He
then gravely proceeded to say that it was quite against
the spirit of modem Liberalism to seek, as the Union was
doing, to debar women from employment upon it. Fen-
wicke is proprietor of two of the rankest of Tor)' M.L.
papers, and if the “ Liberalism” of which he spoke aimed
at casting efficient craftsmen on to the street, and re-
placing them with women at half, and boys at quarter,
pay, it would be a trulv wonderful thing. 1 oor comps. .
. • * *
The law of lost cheques. Somebody (the B.H.
Miners’ Association, it was) drew a cheque, leaving, it
open. It was lost. A publican cashed it—gave four six-
penny beers and £24 18s. for it. Payment stopped. Pub-
lican sued drawer for £25. Defence: Publican didn’t
exercise reasonable care in accepting a £25 cheque in
payment for four drinks. Verdict for publican. And a
moral : Cross your cheques. Even if they aren’t crossed
and you are going to bank them, cross them yourself.
“ Long ’Un ”: Recently heard one of the Chosen
telling another how he travelled from Adelaide to Broken
Hill for a shilling. Holiday time—bought second-class
ticket for 20s. Met a friend travelling “ first,” and
bought hix return half for 21s. Then at Silverton sold his
own return for 155., and upon reaching B.H. got rid of
the “ first ” return for 255. “ Veil,” said his friend, in-
stead of applauding, when he had finished, “ you van a
chump to go drowin’ avay a shillin’ over a sirable liddle
dransaedion like dat 1”
* * * *
“ 5..8.” : Recently observed a wily Greek, in a
Melb. oyster-shop, placing the contents of Stewart Island
bivalves in the deep shells of rock oysters, to lie passed off
on the next person who asked for a plate of “ rocks.”
» 9 • •
“ R.W.S.”: Why should there bo so many un-
employed about, when with a little water, some color-
ing matter, a few bottles and some labels, you have some
“Great Indigestion Cure”? Met a man lately who
wanted to sell me a bottle of rubbish, and, finding that I
knew something, he told me the stuff was only water and
a cheap colored flavoring. Cost him Is. to make 100
bottles, which he sold for 3s. each. Said he was “ doing
splendidly.” ’


HeYr RASSIUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
How to Prevent the BUBONIC PLAGUE and other Fevers.
Take a Hot Bath daily before meals, and rub the skin well after-
wards; apply Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil freely to the Clothing,
Handkerchief, and take 4 drops on a piece of loaf sugar each
Pills a
Blood
nee or twice a week if Constipated: use the Alf aline Euraiuni.,c ■■.■..nee .. Evening when going to bed; take two Alfaline Liver and Kidney
is impure take the AlfeHne BU>od ’ TheAfaMne ptus Oif IndjLiubes take * h ? Alfaline Vitality Pills for a month or two; if the
uii ana jujuoes and the Alfaline Herbal Remedies are absolute PREVENTATIVES AGAINST
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfa l !.?.? Blood Pills
will cnr» the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Biood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely fiee from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ABFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind. Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY^FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials -
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
* -.k:
ma
■ *■
-
JiS v
$
-■>.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alf aline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
- • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
Alfaline Remedies.
JMPORTAHT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH ” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you-send to his Branches or to* his Head
ADVICE
FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RasSHIUSSCn.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills - a Wonder-
ful Remedy for t oughs, Colds, t onsumptiou, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most, perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packer. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder- builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautiflor— A guarantee d
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful f ir Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialino Hair Restorer and Beautiflor—A
guaranteed remedy for pteventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Ib. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Curo Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions, bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Bolts Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alialino Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE: 160 Queen-st Oiear Creek-st.) / ADELAIDE: 154 Rundle-st.(nr. York H’tel) % PERTH, W. A.: Hay-st. (next Royal Theatre)
MELBOURNE: 150Bourke-st. ( op P . east. Mamets) WELLINGTON: 91 Lambton Quay KALGOORLIE: Hannan-st, (next Lindell’s)
“ T.G.F,” : More Govt, promptitude !
Amongst the Gazette notices in a recent Sydney
D.T. appeared the announcement —“George
Alfred Thrum—retired.” Now, said G.A.T. has,
to my knowledge, been dead nearly three years.
Very much “retired” !
A would-be suicide was lately found re-
clining in the shallow water of the Queen River
(Tas.). It was raining steadily, and he told his
rescuer that he ‘ ‘ was waiting for the river to rise
to put an end to his wretched existence.” This
species of self-destruction will never become really
popular on the droughty mainland of Australia.
S.M. Herald’s strictures on the way the
Glebe Island Bridge is being built are deserved.
Immense mounds of stony earth are heaped up
across the entrance to Blackwattle Bay (from
which tumuli are to be stretched the bridge-
girders), thus leaving but a narrow water-way,
which will inevitably cause stagnation of the bay’s
water —into which, by-the-way, nine sewers already
discharge.
Next naval war will be a “corker.”
T’other day the armament of the new U.S. war-
ship, Kearsage, was tested in a heavy sea-way.
Three guns from one turret were fired simul-
taneously, when all the shots struck the same
target, throwing up a single wave. No crockery
was broken on board, aiid no deck-bolts were
started. “The American navy now has five ships
whose simultaneous discharge no existing vessel
can withstand.”
A war item :
.... After the battle I came on some of the wounded
enemy. The Scandinavian in command had a bayonet-
thrust through his stomach, and was dying. He signalled
to me that he was thirsty. I lifted him up and gave him
a cup of condensed milk. A wounded companion lying
by his side said in very good English : “ It’s no use giving
it to him, sir, it only runs out of the hole in his stomach.”
This was true, but still the poor fellow had the sensation
of the refreshing draught passing down his throa't. It
was his last drink. I can see his eager, hungry look even
now, and though an enemy, I wish I could have done
more for him.
Story of Queen Victoria’s visit to Dublin.
An Englishman bought from an old-woman news-
vendor in Graft,on-st. a Dublin evening paper
which suppressed all report of the visitation—and
complained. “ Look .here,” he said, “this paper
has nothing in it about the Queen’s visit; it’s a
fraud.” “ Lor’ save ye, sur,” instantly replied the
old lady, “Lor’ bless ye, there’s the shootin’ of
the Prince o’ Wales in it. How much more does
your honor want for a halfpenny?”
War in South Africa once again proves
that disease kills more than bullets; also that
disease is generally the offspring of bad food or
no food. A starving army is a disease-smitten
army; an army half-fed or fed on badly-cooked
food is dyspeptic and woeful. The same applies
to the busy citizen engaged in the wearing toils of
precious peace. Why die of bad cookery when
the best of health can be easily and cheaply as-
sured by means of M ‘Lean Bros, and Bigg’s
Primus Chief Stove? Costs only Is. to Is. 3d. per
week for oil or gas, and bestows an untold wealth
of health and happiness. Send for catalogue or
call and see them working. M'Lean Bros, and
Bigg’s, Elizabeth-street, Melbourne ; Goorge-
street, Sydney ; Murray-street, Perth.*
Victoria’s State-aided attempts to start a
beet-sugar industry seems to be collapsing through
the lack of interest taken in it by the local farmer.
Last year the Turner Govt, appointed an expert
to show the man on the land how to grow beet,
and offered prizes for the best results. The results
demonstrated—firstly, that sugar-beet of the best
quality can be grown at Maffra, and secondly, that
the local farmer won’t trouble himself in the
matter. He either goes in for dairying or he
fattens cattle ; in either case he objects to hustle.
There were big profits for him in the successful
establishment of the industry, for, in addition to
the gains from sugar-producing, the pulp was the
very thing needed to keep cows in milk when grass
is scarce. But the expert’s engagement has ex-
pired, and the Govt, won’t waste any more money
in trying to help the farmer who won’t help him-
self.
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
NTSERBAT
(TRADE MARK)
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE
SAUCE.
The Basis of which is “MONTSERRAT * LIME-FRUIT JUICE.
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is found, forms a most convenient basis for Sauce, and we invite
a trial. It has been pronounced by connoisseurs to be the Best Sauce before the Publ’c.
It is also half the price of first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery , writes so far back as 1617, in a treatise on Scurvy:
“ I dare not write how good a sauce it (Lime-Juice) is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships
waste it in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS s
SYDNEY— Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.; E. Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE- D. Cohen & Co.
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
BUILD A TERRACE
OF FINE HOUSES
WITH THE MONEY
THAT THE
CM
*5
National
Cash Register
. . . WILL . . .
fsave and Make for You
in a\ Few Years.
You don’t understand why?
Well, you have only to investigate
To see how to accumulate !
FACT! STICK TO IT. IT’S MONEY!
PRICES ON APPLICATION to
national (ash Register Jo.,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.


The Bishop of Westralia has added another
verse to the lugubrious “ Gorsave.” There are
limits. It is some comfort to know that Harvey,
the reputed author of this depressing effusion,
committed suicide, after a troublous life.
ROCHESTER LOP<S€
coiiins place East, Melbourne.
Private Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trains, trains and theatres.
Mrs. M'CLELLAND,
Terms Moderate.
Proprietress.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentratid drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood.and ena-
bling t li. • constitution
to 1 esist climatic
influences.
I Invaluable in all
I cases of anaemia and
1 general debility.
I Highly recommended
for weak and
' debilitated children.
LANCET. “A. beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“/t has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
SOl.n BY CHEMISTS *l.l. THE WOE I D OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lalayette-
(Eft
DEAF
nm
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
TV/
Weak
Men.
' There is nothing like ELECTRICITY to put life, vim
or vigor into weak men or women. Drugs give but
temporary relief; act merely as a stimulant, but Elec-
tricity flies to all weak parts of the body, imparting
Nature’s force thereto and doing the required work surely
and in a permanent manner. If “ run down ”in health
and strength you had better try Electricity. Use an
Electric Belt, for that is the best method of applying it;
but be sure you get a good one while you are about it;
in short, try “ Dr. Pierce’s,” for it is guaranteed to be the
best Electric Belt on earth.
“ Booklet No. 2,” sent by mail for a stamp, tells
all about it. Address
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market Street, SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A., or
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agent*.
Printed that the Prince of Wales, while
lately visiting the war-hospital ship Maine said to
a bevy of fair American women: “I have the
greatest faith in the good the ship will do ; Ameri-
can girls have healed many an Englishman’s
wounded heart.” Well, they have healed many
wounded British pockets.
Arthur Griffith (Fellow Aust. Instit.
Patent Agents, and Member Patent Law Assoc.,
Washington, U.S.A.), 169 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Patents secured and Trade Marks registered
throughout the world. Tel. 2898.*
At the Primrose meeting, Premier Salis-
bury gave away a favorite patriotic excuse for the
war when he said, as per cable :
Under the brilliant guidance of Lord Roberts and Lord
Kitchener, the largest army that had ever been sent across
the same expanse of sea was reducing to obedience to the
Queen territories which ought never to have been released
from that obedience, and was restoring to South Africa
its only chance of peace.
The last few lines are a candid admission of the
independence of the Boers, which, if made by a
Minister in Australia, would have called down
upon his head the virulent abuse of a Jingo public.
Big Donald MacDonald’s war stuff for the
Argus lost grip immediately he was let out of the
little familiar hell in Ladysmith. Whilst fever-
worried and full of famished rats, his writing
knocked emphatically at the soul of man, but then
came a series of articles, evidently reminiscent,
and the intensity and soul-pressure were gone.
Mac’s anxiety to do justice to the Boer seemed
always bearing up hard against office traditions,
but he gets in bits like this re Cronje :
“It is impossible to look upon Cronje’s face, though,
and not feel well disposed towards him. There is nothing
at all in it that repels, very much that attracts, and is the
outward evidence of the crusty, contradictory kindliness
of the man.”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
J. H. Witheford, who won the vacant
Auckland (M.L.) city seat by a majority of more
than 2000 —polling nearly as many votes as the
four candidates (one of whom, by the way, had
the special blessing of Premier Seddon) —has had
a somewhat remarkable career. His start in life
was in a tiny tinsmith’s business in an Auckland
suburb, from which he gravitated to the employ
of Auckland Star. In the more modest days of
Proprietor Brett Witheford became Brett’s general
utility-man. He has been known to collect a stiff
account, report a municipal meeting, sell a gold-
fields water-right and buy a kauri-forest—for
Brett —all in the one day. Three or four years
ago Witheford visited England to float a mine at
Coromandel. His mission was enormously suc-
cessful to himself personally, and the Maoriland
mining boom resulted. During his stay in Eng-
land lie took it upon himself to interview the
Lords of the Admiralty re the equipping of Auck-
land as a naval station. The haughty personages
who direct the naval destinies of the Empire at
first regarded the nervoful colonial as an interesting
biological freak, and bluffed eim and generally
treated him after the disdainful manner of their
kind. But Witheford worried them to the verge
of exhaustion, gained his point, and now gets into
Parliament as a grateful city’s reward.
Nervous sufferers will find ifc worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
LADIES !
—Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s eaoh.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South I Yales . . .
Barbers’ Supply Souse
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
MMM
#•£
m
ALLAN & CO.
will send you
MUSIC AND PIANO
CATALOGUES
POST FREE I
ALLAN and CO. (
Collins Street, Melbourne.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
fSefßSm's
G/(j/ 0|
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS ft BUNIONS.
It softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM ft SON. Chemist, Cheltenham
England.
▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼»* T ’ T '*
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
IMPOR.XA.KrT AKT3NTOUHTCEMB3XTX !
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organa have been before the Australian publio for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
■ J*
THE FORCE OF HABIT!
Doing the same thing, in the same manner, a
number of times. These HABITS grow,
lake One Dose of
Raffan’s Sulphur Liver Pills
Twice or Thrice weekly. They Purify and
Energise, keep the Body clean, and a pre-
caution against ill-health in its countless
forms.
. . . Per Post, 1/3 . . .
R. Raffan, Pharmacist,
55 Elgin Street, Carlton, Melb.
The New Patriotic Souvenir Charms
SOLDIERS OF THE QUEEN.
LORD ROBERTS
R.
COLONEL BADEN-POWELL
PATRIOTIC SOUVENIR CHARMS, with Solid Gold Mounts and Crystal Glasses. Each Charm contains a genuine Photograph
of Her Majesty the Queen, and any one of the Celebrated “ Soldiers Of the Queen.”
Lord Roberts
Lord Kitchener
General Sir R. Buller
General Lord Methuen
General Hector Macdonald
Colonel Baden-Powell
General Sir Geo. White
General Sir A. Hunter
General French
And Other Famous Generals.
7s. 6d.
Post Free to any Address for 7s. 6d
H. 3SrEWlwr-A.IT,
Watchmaker & Jeweller, 175 and 177 Collins St., Melbourne.


ECZEMA OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., the
Prince of Wales’ Botanist.
Cures this terrible itching complaint. Sot a
Grease. Does not Stain the Linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6: post, 4/10.
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success*
Chemists, or direct from the
COWJN’IAT* REPRESENTATIVE. FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J.E. Phillips. 317 Collins St., Melbourne
FISHER & CO.’S
FAMOUS
WATARA.
A SPEEDY CURE
For Coughs, Colds , Asthma,
Bronchitis &c., &c.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co., Hoffnung
and Co., Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co., and from
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Washington 11.
Soul and Co., Pattinson and Co., and from tho
PHARMACY,
337 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
Sent per Post, 6d. extra.
Is. 6d. and 2s. (id. per Bottle.
I Cure Fits
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my x
remedy does or does not cure $
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance, \
&c. All you are asked to do is to |
send fora FREE bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result. (
A Valuable and Safe Remedy. \
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. ROOT,aB, Endsleigh Gdns,, LON DON.
HEALTH anp strength
■ 1 may be secured without inconvenience
on the part of the person taking Dr. HOPE S UFt
SYRUP (liquid or pill form). Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing rom
day to day. Are you a Sufferer from health
in any of its many forms? Do you feel nervousfretfu,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Ate you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, fee l hsttess,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Y
kidneys, stomach, urinary, organs, hverior btopd in a
disordered condition? Do you feel generally debilitated?
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
Life Syrup Will Cure You.
Price 10/- and 20/- ; Course 40/-
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis-
orders are cured, and in ntony cases I#<? *145
six stamps Address t—HOPE MEDICINE CO., l
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
co
GRIMAULT’S
lIIDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma', Nervous
Coughs," Catarrh, SJeeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GTtIM£? S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Business Announcements.
A
fringes,
tfeWaJ Corly, from 3/9 aacW
PLAITS end TARS,
•&{swf.-oaua
worked up, S/3 P er °* !
\V* are Che cheaprattn
trnHft for all Bair WociL.
Send Color of
W.
JlO WILLIAM STMCT. x
corner of Pftlmer
SYBNEY.
Cable Tram will stop »t D° or -
Send sumps for tall Price Wrt.
»yt attention given to Country Ora era.
A
Bubonic
9*
REGISTERED.
Plague
Can be Prevented
By Using
ECKERSLEY’S
jjflentholiae.
All Chemists.
Large Size 2/6 ; Small 1/-
Wholesale from
Australian
Co.
The Life of the System.
noispi.
S. FREEMAN # SONS U£»™
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone.
Price, £7.
Carriage Paid.
THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
Also on Sale —
1 Edison Cinematographs complete and 10
Films, £6O.
1 Cinenmtographe and 10 Films, £35.
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune for a
smart man.
2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Ray Outfits, complete.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EDISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
Removed to 1 and 3 Rowe Street. (120 PITT STREET), SYDNEY (ONLY).
TF. 'T. N. Older share, Manager. Nearly opposite G-P-O.
m
; " .V - , - '-■-
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
■Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DIHNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA,
'■ 'a "<MV -'d** k I'!
Wk
i a
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
UCH
■ ■ ■
SPARKLING
viKS i
a B SB
■HE H B ■
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared with this
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
ff w "«'< mm
Wholesale Agents
BLAKEY & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 418 Ceorge Street, Sydney.
tm
m
f ■ i
\
lOr/ir
fVhen
writing
please
mention-
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired oi STOMACH DRUGGING |
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ana aisappomwceiw, acuu iui rl. . . v ,
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by |
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-|
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can ,
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,,
. Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
1 Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.,
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and (
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
10 0
1 10 0
2 2 0
3 3 0
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to
A. D. STEPHENSON, n .
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
«ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
• ' Fre.r, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Pripfi. 6S.
For what you are about to re-
ceive, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using M FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
STUART & CO.
' PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to order at 425.
is marvellous value, made
from all-wool Tweed 9. Vi-
cunas, orSerges.fastcolors
is perfset fitting and beau-
tifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order
from any class of material,
£3 3e. Tomeasure,capital
Trousers, very good pat-
terns, 12s. 6d.
Dress Suita, to measure,
£5. Clerical Suits, to mea-
sure, £5.
Hiding Breeches, 85s.
Biding Habits, &c.
We supply ready-made
Men's Capital Tweed Suits
L 215., 85s. , „
\ Famous Ballarat Serge
Vults, Indigo dye, 85s.
f hong Chesterfield Coats
all colors. 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss. lid.
All-wool Blue and Black
Vicuna Coats and Vests,
495. Cd. _
Tweed Overcoats, Bls.
Waterproof Coats, full
capes 15s. 9d. Undrersed
White Shirts, linen fronts
and cuffs. 8". W-. 3s. lid.
4s. Od.. s>. «d.
Heavy Warm Travelling
Rugs. 10s Oil.. 13s. 11*1.
All-wool Crimean Shirts,
ss. 6d..75. Od. Travelling
Trunks, Bags In great
variety. Soft Alptno Hats,
4s. o<i., all colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. fid,
Gaps, Is.
Merino Undorshlrts or
rants, is. Od.
ootars/ls. g jl ’to'JdFfor'any
Wo lilto to writ, letters. so don
'jatterns'of all klnds'and seU-measuremcnt form, po.t.d free
11 Write for them.
0
Publications.
SKIN DISEASES •• "jd . .
T. Their Treatment.
ACNE, ECZEMA, PSORIASIS, &c.,
Bv Dr. ALFRED NEALE (M.D., M.8.0.M., Ed.),
Late Physician to Manchester Skin Hospital.
SYDNEY : TURNER and HENDERSON. Post 1/L
READ SECRET SOCIETY
—IN—
Hodgson’s Tales of Medical Students.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, 3s. 6d. Post Free, 4s.
Wholesale : Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
Boofea. Books. Bootes.
-DOPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 tor £1 6s. Tho
Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers
Encyclop®dia, hound half calf, up-to-date edition, L/JOs.
for £2 16s. Webster’s Largo Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from mo by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R W SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streeo, Sidney.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
OF rare, curious,
and laughable books.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
À
IT
LUSTRATBD
TSTITH numerous anatomical
W colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
1 Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of hook, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 402, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
a
How Do! May I send yon
my
Extra Special
Book Catalof/ue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
Jt
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET °BOOKS~
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
lAMOND SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection ol songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. Tins
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s lOd from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 Gcorge-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 pee Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1,6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0* Calvert & Co., Manchester.


Hearne’s Bronchitis Core.
TjE3::e: famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, P
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is mos -
fort in pin allavitm irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumpti
never been known to exist where “ Coughshave been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally suffi ,
.and a Complete Cure is certain.
B€WAR€ OF COUGHS!
A Lady in London.
A MARTY LI TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED RY ONE BOTTLE OF HE ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARRIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“ Orange, N.S.W.
“Mr. Hearns.—
“ Bear Sir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
vour medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds and bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
he mentioned, but you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself v. hat an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately Hew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
The names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
Nine months* torture.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
bronchitis cure, and CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“ Dergholm, Victoria.
“Dear Sir, —I wish to add ray testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’without avail. I tried
yourS, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have had ocoasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria."
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only (rave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it. —D. M'DONALD, Trinkey, via
Quirindi, N S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, No. 7 Renny-et., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Brochitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good, it having quickly cured us both. —R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford,
Victoria.”
•
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.—(Mrs.) JOHN RAUILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria."
“ I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.—J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
•
“ My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effeot. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER, Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria."
“Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
•
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at onoe.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” •
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—B.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales." •
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
hut I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial. —JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do
me any (rood; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it ma.Je me quite well.—ll. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
•
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of yo t ur Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in tha-winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness. —HENRY VVURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
•
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.—CHAS. WHYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scikntihio Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham, ac-
countant, Col I ins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he hns ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Hearne’s most, valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“ Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO."
Queensland Testimony-
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We enclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
oured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CHATER * CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days.
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. O. Ilearne, Esq. Dear Sir, —Permit me to express
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronohitis, and took your medicine, with the result that
at the end of ten days the complaint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a oold it is taken,
with immediate ourative efTect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
“Editor Gkklono Advertiser."
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“ DOW KIDGE’S 5
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
Jre you Too Stout?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALINC REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
-
DAPTO (Lalte
m
(fJMITET)),
Illawarra),
SYDISrBT
SMELTERS
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
mm
wMm
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL AW AREA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia Ltd tupto V om
B § XJUU '> VAflu, N.S.W. ;or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD nm
INFANTS
1
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, to., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by -
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal,
Invalids
AND
THE AGED;


Á
t
Á
■ v
■;> ,L
■
F
0
R
6
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the "World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
I
m
m
tFAEgJH
Cl
& F. PEARS
) Reduced Fac simile
> of
GOLD MEDAL
L awarded by the
< jurois of the
s Paris Exhibition,
S 1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
Special Appointment
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
Jones, the Genius Hunter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The biggest man in Mulga Town —he ruled the
WaSKLY Grunter,
Was known to all the country round as “Jones,
the Genius Hunter ” ;
That he could tell a geniiu, whether loud he spoke
i or meekly
Wai the pro ad boast of Jabez Jones who ruled the
Grunter weekly.
Now, Jones within the local pub. was aye this
lesson giving,
That beer and brains together went, and learning
meant loose living;
That geniuses were always drunk, and drunk men
geniasses ;
And by these signs he knew his prey and roped
them in in masses.
If Brown indulged in rosy wine and on his face
. did show it,
It proved to Mr. Jabez Jones that he must be a
poet.
If Smith unto a lovely dame unlawfully was mated,
Smith had the artist-temperament and must be
cultivated.
It therefore was not strange that Jones could
boast no writeresses,
Save one, a country maid, who penned warm
things about caresses,
And verses wrote of love and wine and of the
devil maybe,
That she might buy her nephews shoes, and some-
thing for the baby.
Now, Mary’s lips were thin and close, and Mary’s
hair hung straightly,
On Mary’s face shone common sense, and Mary
walked sedately;
When Mary came to Mulga Town and faced the
Genius Hunter—
She found her fame grew weaker in the pages of
the Grunter.
Till once she ohanced to overhear J. Jones his
lesson giving—
“ That Beer and Brains together went, and learning
meant loose living.”
So Mary set about to force the Grunter to
believing
She had lived down her sinlessness, her blameless
past retrieving.
Forthwith she took to qaaffing beer, and strove to
quaff it cheerily,
And paffed the gentle cigarette—none guessed she
puffed it wearily ;
To hint at bright-pink sins that lit her past she
, was not chary;
Likewise she showed affection for a married man
—M‘Gary.
New Mary hated cigarettes, colonial beer, and
shandy;
Her hidden tastes were all along for lemonade and
candy;
Her sinless past it suited well her praenomen of
Mary,
And there was nothing wrong at all between her
and M‘Gary.
When Jabez heard his writeress had started cigar-
etting,
He murmured that her work of late a Firmer
Touch was getting;
When Jabez heard his writeress drank beer or
spirits nightly
He swore, “Her work improves by bounds, her
pen moves muoh more lightly.”
But when he heard that scandal linked her name
with Jack M‘Gary
His admiration knew no bounds ; he made a place
for Mary;
He gave her four-pound-ten a week, and in the
township hailed her,
“The Coming Genius of the Age, whose vigor
never failed her.”
So Mary to the nephews small more boots and
toys is giving,
And still hides from a callous world the sinless
life she’s living;
And if her virtues don’t leak out and blight her
reputation
She hopes to gather wealth beyond all human
expectation.
N.S.W.
CONSTANCE CLYDE.
After all, the man who had the job to
supply the Westralian Govt, with 200 cats,
delivered at Israelite Bay, at 15s. a head could
only muster 159. Bigjohn, who, like the rest of
them, isn’t so keen on cats as he was, has forgiven
the contractor the other 41.
Hobart Mercury publishes a letter from
a Tasmanian warrior who is furious at the gallant
Roberts’ courteous treatment of Cronje at the
surrender. “If I had my way I’d give him ten
inches of cold steel, the dog!” says the young man
from Yandemonia. The phrase smacks of Port
Arthur.
Concerning the decorum of Melbourne
crowds, thus a Bulletin correspondent
I am sick of hearing and reading of the extreme de-
corum and amazing respectability of Melb. crowds. The
May Day assemblage on Yarra bank, like many other in-
stances that might be cited, shows that the so-called
decorum may be mere pusillanimity, or a blind and con-
temptible disregard for their own private and public
rights on the part of a great concourse A huge crowd,
mainlv of workers in their Sunday best, gathered round
the lorrv platforms on May Day apparently anxious to
hear the speakers, but these hundreds of men stood
auietlv by whilst a stupid push of half-pint larrikins
numbering not more than & score, utterly demoralised
the meeting. The fatuous youths (all mechanics evi-
dently) imagined that something horribly disloyal was
intended, and they rolled up armed with sticks fluttering
Union Jacks, and drove through the crowd and back
bellowin'' “Gorsave” and “ Rulebrit.,” and other pat-
riotic slush for over an hour, sweeping the people before
them. A d >zen able-bodied men might have donkey-
licked the mutton-headed disorderlies into the river, but
the proletariat took it lying down. The speakers were
mostly spineless and vap : d, but the assembled men
wished to hear them, and the latter’s grinning apathy as
the larrikin patriots walked all over them was shockingly
sheep-like.
Vila’s Version,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Quick ! Quick !” cried a woman dashing through
the surf towards the incoming boat.
“ What’s up, Mrs. Evans ?” asked Ware, wading
ashore with her in his arms.
“ Let me down and come to my husband.
There’s going to be a row ! ”
Ware heard the yells on the hillside and, drop-
ping the girl, he ran up to the store.
The crowd of natives parted to let him through
because they feared him —he was quite a different
man from Evans, who, although he greeted his
friend cheerily, appeared not altogether happy
now.
“You see, Ware, its my ‘reception day !’”
“ Yes —but I don’t like the look of your visitors.
What’s the matter ?”
“ Simple enough. You remember that imitation
pig’s tusk of mine? Well, Remben, the
chief, wants it.
“ Give it to him, then.”
“Not me ! Why, a German buyer in Sydney
will give me a fiver for it.”
“Are your lives not worth more than that?”
asked Ware, as pretty little Vila came up.
“It’s not that bad,” exclaimed Evans, kissing
his wife. “ Remben promised not to harm us, and
I believe him.”
“But, mate,” answered Ware, impatiently,
“don’t you know these native promises are worth
nothing? Even if he doesn’t murder you himself,
he can always, with an easy conscience, hire others
to do it; and, from what I saw coming through,
there’s a lot of ‘bush-men’ here.”
“ Nonsense ! You are an alarmist. Let’s have
dinner. Come, Vila.”
Ware followed the couple inside, and when they
were seated at the table he tried again to per-
suade Evans to give in, or, at any rate, move up
North to his station until the row blew over.
Evans laughed scornfully, but his wife seemed
interested.
Ware noticed her eyes were fixed upon him, and
it was with a smothered curse that lie turned away
to his plate again. In vain, though, for he could
not eat. Vila was still watching him—he felt it.
She was waiting, expecting him to speak.
At last, the involuntary murmur escaped his
lips. “ It’s a damn pity, anyway ! ”
She heard. “Tell me. You must!” she said,
eagerly.
“Yes,” answered Ware, “you had better know
what to expect. Listen to me, Evans.” Then he
told them of the horrible indignities and degrada-
tions which the wife of a Samoan “teacher” had
undergone after her husband’s murder—just a few
miles from where they sat. She lived witli the
natives for three months, and, when rescued, was
an idio.t.
Mrs. Evans had drunk in every word, and as the
story ended with, “See, Evans, what you are ex-
posing your wife to,” she half rose—then, with a
ory of terror, sank to the ground.
The men rushed to her.
Disregarding her husband, she clasped the knees
of Ware, and begged him to take her away. “ Let
us leave at once. I will tell your men. Oh, I can-
not wait! Remember the Samoans !”
“What do you mean by frightening the girl
with your stupid talk !” exclaimed Evans angrily.
“ It’s the truth.”
“Rot! Anyway, she stays here while I’m
alive.”
“ And afterwards 1”
“She will know to prefer death to dishonor,”
cried the husband boastfully.
“I hope so,” answered Ware. “I’m going to
get my boat ready. I’ll come back to say good-
bye.”
When he returned he found Mrs. Evans waiting
on the verandah ; her husband had gone out for a
moment.
“You believe all I told you this morning,
Vila?” asked Ware. The woman nodded and
moved near to him.
“And you know as well as Ido what these
inland natives are down here for ? ”
She nodded again, and muttered:—“ He will
not come away.”
“He said you would rather die than suffer as
that Samoan did.”
Vila shuddered and clutched his arm.
“ Well, I have brought you my rifle—it will not
make a mistake.”
Her head sank upon his shoulder. He kissed
her, then said, “ Come, you must not be a coward.
Let me show you how to use it.”
The girl leant against the post and watched
Ware’s movements. She tried herself then, but
the lock was stiff, and her attempt was a very poor
one.
“ That won’t do,” said Ware ; “ you might just
as well have a native musket—l’m afraid .”
“ Load it —I only want one,” she murmured.
She would not let go the stock, so Ware loaded
it in her hands. “ You are a plucky woman,” he
said admiringly, and again he kissed her.
“So, this is your game, is it !” said a voice
behind. “This is why you want us to move up
to your station ! Now, clear out, an 1 next time
you take a holiday don’t come South ! ”
“Thanks to your cursed stupidity, it won’t bo
necessary. The natives will be here before I’m
clear of the bay,” answered Ware, releasing the
girl.
He had just reached the beach when a rifle shot
rang out.
“ That’s my Snider !”
A moment after, Vila came running down the
hill. She caught his arm and dragged him towards
the boat—crying, “Come quickly. Remember
the Samoan.”
“ But your husband —and my rifle ? ”
“ There together—up above,” she answered.
Ware smiled grimly at the wife’s fulfillment of
the husband’s boast.
She understood his thoughts and whispered,
“ Why should two die ? ”
“WINDA."
T. J. Allison, a well-known shipping man,
for many years Sydney manager of the China Steam
Navigation Co., has entered the service of Gibbs
Bright and Co., and will devote himself specially
to the Chinese shipping business of that firm.
Nobody this side would have growled at
Labour-member Sleath for going to S. Africa if
only he had resigned, and so left someone to look
after Wilcannia’s interests, writes a local elec-
tor to The Bulletin. As matters stand,
just when the pastoral question is under con-
sideration, the electorate which has suffered as
much as any from drought and other things is
without a representative ; while the unpaid magis-
trates at White Cliffs, who months ago wrote to
him a letter involving the either retractation ot
some remarks made by a Judge in deciding an
appeal or their resignation, have not received so
much as an acknowledgment.
An Old Kettle.
LARA, my dear,”said
her mother, “ I think
we will have a cup of
tea before we go out.”
“Just the very
thing, mother,” an-
swered her daughter,
as she rang the bell
for the maid. “Make
some tea, Mary, as
mother and I have de-
cided to have a cup.
Don’t be long, Mary,
for we have little time
to spare.”
. fifteen minutes two cups of tea were brought
into the sitting-room, but neither mother nor
daughter could drink it. Mary was summoned
into the room, and was asked what was the matter
with the beverage. She acknowledged that it
had a foreign taste, but she could not account for it.
The reason was discovered the next day. The
kettle was one year old, and certain substances in
it had corroded. And so it is with our system, but
Bile Beans for Biliousness will regulate it. We
allow the system to go too far without cleansing it,
and when we get ill we wonder what is the matter.
Biliousness is one of those complaints we are apt
to neglect, whereas a proper course of Bile Beans
for Biliousness will put the liver in proper working
order; acting as they do directly upon the liver,
they prevent the ducts connecting the various
digestive organs from becoming stopped up, and in
this way prevent biliousness. Mr. James Neill, of
Port Pirie, S.A., says : “For over two years I suf-
fered acutely from biliousness and pains in the
back, which were most distressing. To relieve
them I tried every largely advertised remedy with-
out effect, and at last a friend of mine recom-
mended me to try Bile Beans. I took a course of
one box, and I can honestly say that they afforded
me great relief, and I have no hesitation in recom-
mending them to anyone who may be suffering as I
did. You have permission to use this letter In any
way you think fit.” Bile Beans are sold every-
where at 13£d. per large box, and be sure you get
the genuine” which bear the signature on the band
around the package.


FOR DELICATE
ANGIER'S PETROLEUM EMULSION
IS BLAND, SOOTHING, CREAMY. Children like it, and take it
readily when they cannot be induced to take Cod Liver Oil. For those who
suffer from lack of nutrition, who are pinched in appearance and puny in
development, it is just what is needed. Their food agrees with them better, and is
perfectly digested. They eat better, digest
better, sleep fetter, and gain in weight,
colour, and general health. Give it. to the
children when they cough, are scrofulous
or losing flesh, when their food does not
digest, or when their bowels are out
of order. The medical profession
prescribe it largely in such cases,
and it is used in Children's
Hospitals.
o*
m
&
H r>+
**
00
m
0*
V
d**'
A**
e£
SVS
&0«
®SP*
0
*>\*
\o4
.l' 1
eto-
C\6^
*<•
0*
,o«
0
0®
J»*'
w
c#
p\V.
.t°
cA
00$?
0
«$*
(.O''
«<**'
«s
Children’s
Coughs. _<
If you value your
Children’s health, don’t
give Cough Remedies or
Medicines of any sort
that contain opium or any
narcotic. Angier’s Petro-
leum Emulsion is simple and
safe. It combines the soothing
and healing properties of our specially purified Petroleum with the tonic qualities
of the Hypophosphites of Lime and'Soda, and is not only the very best thing for
Coughs and Colds and for Whooping Cough and Croupy Coughs, but is also
invaluable in all Wasting Diseases in Children. A pleasant fact is that children
all like it and take it without any objection.
Prescribed by the Medical Profession
In United States since 1881.
In Great Britain since 1892.
In Australasia since 1898.
ENGLISH TESTIMONIALS . .
Delicate Child.
“ EATS AND SLEEPS BETTER THAN WE
HAVE EVER KNOWN HIM TO DO.”
3 Shipstone-road, Magdalen-road, Norwich.
Dear Sira,—A few weeks back I wrote asking
you to send me a sample bottle of your Petroleum
Emulsion, as I wished to give it a trial.for my
little boy. We gave it to him, and, as he seemed
to be a little better, we decided to give it a
further trial, and obtained a supply, and have
continued to give it to him with good results. He
has gained flesh, and eats and sleeps better than
we have ever known him to do. I may add that
my child takes the Emulsion readily without any
trouble whatever.
(Signed) W. S. WILDE.
Bronchitis in Delicate Child.
The Lodge, Hampton-wick, Middlesex.
Dear Sirs, —My little boy of three had an attack
of bronchitis, which left him very weak and
wasted. After taking your sample bottle of
Petroleum Emulsion and a 2s. 9d. bottle obtained
at a chemist’s, the little fellow rapidly recovered
both flesh and strength. I think it an excellent
preparation for children. I shall recommend it
wherever I can.
(Signed) F. S. R.
Delicate Child with Weak Lungs.
Upton Bishop. Ross.
Dear Sirs,—l write to tell you of the good effect
of your Emulsion in my little boy’s ease. He is
but two years and six months old, and has been
very delicate since birth. Last winter he had a
severe attack of whooping cough and inflammation
of the lungs, and it left him with weak lungs and
a perfect skeleton, and we could get him to eat
next to nothing. Thanks to your medicine, all
that is now changed ; he is the picture of health,
quite fat, and a perfect romp, never still a moment.
This great change is entirely due to one large
bottle, beside the sample bottle you so kindly sent
me.
(Signed) K. TINTON.
Delicate Since Birth.
129 Beach-street, Deal.
Sir, —Some three weeks ago I had a bottle of
your Emulsion for my little boy, who has been
very delicate since birth. We have tried other
Emulsions, and have given him cod-liver oil for
five years, but nothing has done him so much
good as your Emulsion, After taking a few doses
he had better nights, and his cough was not so
troublesome; in fact, your Emulsion seems to do
him more good than all various medicines I have
tried. His age is seven years next June.
(Signed) JOHN EDWARDS.
A FREE SAMPLE BOTTLE
on receipt of 4d. for Postage. Mention “The Bulletin.”
Caution
Ours is the Original Petroleum Emulsion. It is made with a special oil obtained
from particular wells, and carefully purified by our own process. Imitations made
with ordinary Pretroleum do not have the same effect. Simply asking for Petro-
leum Emulsion will not do. You should ask for
Angfier’s Petroleum Emulsion
And be Sure that You Get It.
Of All Chemists and Drug Stores, 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
Head Office: 32 Snow Hill, London, Knytund.
The Postmistress.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was the annual race-club ball—an hour after it
had opened. Girls’ eyes were gleaming seduc-
tively, men were growing gentle and confidential;
sentimental knots grew and melted; the motley
assembly of farmers, grooms, jockeys, and book-
makers were fusing their separate individualities
into the Spirit of the Moment.
The musicians began a quick, lilting tune that
set even the feet of the wall-flowers tapping. The
Spirit of the Moment seized the dancers, and
merged them into a mob of whirling, smiling,
leaping men and women; faster flew their feet,
higher wailed the music. An excited woman’s
voice was heard at intervals in an ecstatic little
scream, and with each scream the abandon was
greater. When lovers were partners they held
each other closer and closer, until they hugged
openly and unashamed. The wall-flowers gradu-
ally ceased talking, their eyes grew brighter, and
they were lost in the Spirit of the Moment of by-
gone balls. The crowd of dancers began to per-
spire and pant, but still louder wailed the music.
A girl laughed with uncontrollable joy, and was
led away hysterical.
The music jarred, a fiddle-string snapped, the
other two instruments stopped involuntarily.
There was a momentary shuffling of many feet,
• then a dead silence. It was then that Miss Malley,
the postmistress, saw Bryan O’Shea kiss Nance
Carthy under the shadow of the ferns ; the happi-
ness within her snapped like the string of the
fiddle, and awakened the latent devil of malice.
The dancers segregated into farmers, grooms,
jockeys, and bookmakers once more.
• * * *
One hot north-wind day a small brother of
Nance Carthy’s was sent to the township for a
loaf of bread and the mail. He trudged the dis-
tance between his home and the township with a
sturdy indifference to lizards and butterflies, and
did not even stop when he called out to Billy
Smith, enviously, to get off and shove, as the said
Billy rode disdainfully past on his pony. On the
outskirts of the township a stray horse and a handy
stone tempted him into thinking that the first
would jump if the second hit it. It nearly jumped
on top of him. The baker’s buns next glad-
dened his eyes, but he thought he would get the
letters first. Next door to the post-office was a
shop with a fine broad verandah. On the verandah-
Eost nearest the post-office Tommy saw some cow-
air caught in a splinter. He picked up a small
stick and prized the splinter open an additional
quarter of an inch. Then looking up the post, he
saw another and larger splinter, where it seemed
possible to do f urther damage to property. Tommy
proceeded to climb the post forthwith. Reaching
the top, he had a bird’s-eye view into the post-
office through the upper and unfrosted half of the
window—and forgot the splinter. He saw Miss
Malley stand ng in the middle of the office, in-
tently reading a letter. His glance wandered to
the shiny telegraph instrument, then back to Miss
Malley, who at the same moment looked up to
find his two solemn eyes staring at her. She
turned red, hastily crammed the letter into her
pocket, and flustered out to the amazed Tommy.
“ What are you doing there, you nasty little
wretch ? ” His foot being within reach, she pulled
him roughly down by it, whereat Tommy gave a
scream, and began bellowing for his mother, fran-
tically holding -his leg, which was bleeding
slightly from a long scratch given by the hairy
splinter. Through the medium of a bun he had
forgotten all about it in ten minutes. By the
crumpled condition of her letter, Nance thought
Tommy must have played football with it.
* • * *
Mm. Carthy was sorely troubled. Vague
rumors were flitting round the township that
Nance was not all she ought to be ; and Tommy
was sick. She watched Nance anxiously for
those signs by which a troubled conscience is
known, but Nance went about her work with the
serious but happy face of a woman absorbed in her
first love. Tommy got worse and became the
greater trouble—so great as to finally drive all
worry about Nance out of her head.
For four days queer muscular twitchings
afflicted Tommy with increasing intensity—on one
occasion they caused him to throw his tea over his
shoulder. Mrs. Carthy hoped they were but a
passing trouble, but they gradually got worse.
She called in the doctor at last. He sounded
Tommy’s chest, thumped his ribs, took his tem-
perature, looked wise, and was hopelessly puzzled.
He came the next day and found the twitchings
more marked, pulling down the bed-clothes to
examine the violent jumps in Tommy’s legs, he
saw the long scratch made by the splinter.
“ How did you get that, Tommy?”
“ Off Smiff’s verandah-post.”
“ Climbing ?”
“ Miss Malley pulled me down, an’ the splitter
went inside me trousers an’ scratched me leg.”
“What did she pull you down for ? ”
“ I dunno,” he answered thoughtfully. “ But I
fink she didn’t want ter be seen readin’ a letter.
She was awful mad.”
The doctor was no longer listening. But Mrs.
Carthy went on questioning Tommy, pleased to see
him take an interest in things; to her it was a
hopeful sign. The doctor wrote out another pre-
scription, and went away, thinking deeply. Near-
ing nome, his face brightened a little.
“I think I have it —anyway I’ll see,” he
muttered.
He went straight to the post Tommy had
climbed. Seeing the cow-hair, he collected some
with his knife, and took it home in his watch-case.
He put it into some very rich soup and kept it
warm ; later on he examined a drop of the
soup under the microscope, and saw a lot of
little fleshy rods shaped something like shortened
drum-sticks.
“Tetanus!” he muttered, and got up feeling
very sorry for Tommy.
♦ * * *
It was a month after Tommy’s death that the
doctor explained that the tetanus had got into
Tommy through the long scratch, never thinking
that a medical fact could have anything but a
medical application. When it reached Mrs.
Carthy’s ears, she instantly recollected Tommy’s
prattling before his death. Then she remembered
that Tommy had brought home a crumpled letter
for Nance the day he got the soratoh. It flashed
into her mind that it was the letter Tommy saw
the postmistress reading. She called Nance and
asked to see the letter. Nance hesitated.
“ I have my own reasons, and it is important
that I should see it,” the mother said in explana-
tion. It was just an ordinary love-letter; Mrs.
Carthy was puzzled.
“Nance,” she said, ‘was there ever anything
between Miss Malley and Bryan ? ”
Nance looked troubled.
“ I don’t know. I think there was—something
—once. But Bryan won’t tell.”
Having found a fitting motive for Miss Malley’s
roughness to Tommy, Mrs. Carthy concluded that
Miss Malley was the source of the ugly rumors
about Nance also. She immediately laid the
whole blame of Tommy’s death at her feet, too;
not seeing that Miss Malley was as ignorant of
how tetanus could be caught as herself. Then
Mrs. Carthy’s dark-blue eyes turned black under
a scowl of silent fury. But through all her rage
she was thinking she could manage the township
gossip more effectively than Miss Malley. And
she did.
* * • •
Miss Malley was fond of children. It was a
fortnight after the doctor’s explanation, when the
postmistress called several urchins to her that she
might give them lollies. The children liked lollies
very much, but to her surprise they drew shyly
back, and when she approached they gave evident
signs of running away. Very much hurt, she re-
turned to the office. Next day it was the same.
When she turned to the mother of one for an ex-
planation, she was met with a stony stare. Ob-
serving her acquaintances more closely, she found
cold hostility in their looks. She thought it was
a passing feeling due to some mistake, but the
coldness became more marked and the hostility
more open. She made another attempt to be
friendly with the children.
“Yah! ’Oo killed Tommy Carthy?” bawled
one dirty little scamp ; and the jeer was taken up
as a chorus. The people near listened, but
appeared to be deaf. Miss Malley could scarcely
believe her own ears, through utterly failing to see
what she had to do with Tommy’s death.
“Yah ! ’Oo reads letters?” was the next jeer
of the children. She turned white witli fear —and
she half-uttered a wish that Tommy had died before
hehadspoken. But she knew there was no real proof
of her having read the letter. So she went about
for a week with an air of dignified rectitude. This
shocked the moral residents into covert insults,
and resulted in them taking great pains to have
their letters posted and delivered elsewhere. A
further decrease in business would mean investiga-
tion from head-quarters, which meant probable
dismissal and starvation. Fear broke down the
last shred of defiance in Miss Malley.
She called on the doctor, to learn how she might
bo connected with Tommy’s death.
“They are blaming me for it,” she cried, after
the doctor had explained.
“That’s nonsense. You are no more to blame
than the cows.”—Miss Malley was sobbing —“in
fact, the whole township is to blame for allowing
the cows to roam in the main street.” The doctor
was nervous at sight of her tears. “ But it has
cut-up Mrs. Carthy badly.”
Miss Malley determined to apologise to Mrs.
Carthy for her share in the death of little Tommy.
She actually thought her cunning was a touch of
genius.
Mrs. Carthy herself answered the knock, and
her eyes turned black again at sight of her visitor.
“ I have come to see you privately,” said Miss
Malley, witli wretched hesitation at sight of Mrs.
Carthy’s angry face.
She was asked to come in.
“It was only half-an-hour ago,” began Miss
Malley when they were seated, “that! heard I
had in a way something to do with Tommy’s death.
laa so sorry. I never dreamt a simple scratch
could be so terrible. It’s dreadful to be jeered, at
as a murderess .... Even when you know
it isn’t true. ... I am so fond of children. . . .
Ask me to—to —do anything. . . . Do stop those
horrible rumors about me.”
“ Why did you pull my son down so roughly ? ”
“He was so high up that I thought he might
fall and hurt himself.”
“ That’s a lie ! It was because he saw you read-
ing my daughter’s letter. ”
Miss Malley had half expected the accusation,
and had determined to quietly mention a slander-
action ; but Mrs. Carthy’s anger flustered her.
“How did you know it was her letter?” she
began. Then recognising what she had admitted,
she fell on her knees and begged for pardon.
Mrs. Carthy was shaking with anger and con-
tempt. The postmistress grovelled to her.
“If I am dismissed I shall starve. ... I have
nothing to fall back upon. ... Oh ! do forgive
me.” She dropped her head on a chair sobbing.
“ I’ll promise anything,” she moaned.
Mrs. Carthy’s face was white with passion, and
ugly with vengeful feeling. It was one of those fits
of rage of which the intensity itself kept the body
rigid. Had she slackened her muscular tension
she would have lost control of herself altogether,
and beaten Miss Malley to the floor. But she was
thinking furiously that the postmistress should
starve—should be held up to public scorn. She
glared at the crouching figure at her feet, and let
her grovel. At intervals Miss Malley looked up
imploringly. The intervals gradually widened.
Noting which, unconsciously, Mrs. Carthy began to
take a cat-like interest in making her more abject.
“ Do you admit that you’re a liar ? ” asked Mrs.
Carthy at last.
“ Yes,” moaned Miss Malley.
“ That you deserve dismissal ? ”
“Yes.”
“Come to me on your knees, and swear by all
you hold most dear, that you will always speak
respectfully of my daughter.”
She crawled to Mrs. Carthy slowly. “ I swear
it by my father and mother.”
“Now swear that, if I ever ask it, you will
apply for another district.”
“ I swear it.”
“And that you’ll never again try to influence
Bryan O’Shea against my daughter through lying
rumors. ”
“I swear,” repeated the post-mistress, faintly.
“And that you will come to my daughter’s
wedding.”
“ Miss Malley looked up suddenly, with a gleam
of tortured hate in her eyes ; glared at the implac-
able woman standing over her, for a full minute.
Then her head sank, lower and lower ; she bent
and shrunk into a mere bundle of quivering
clothes, hopelessly beaten.
“ You may go to my room and tidy yourself.”
Mrs. Carthy’s manner stung Miss Malley by its
Eerfect indifference. She knew it consummated
er defeat; she rose listlessly, wearily, seeming
to unbundle herself gradually, and crept away.
W. BRENTA.
N.S.W* Trooper E. Ransley, from South
Africa :
I saw Cronje and his crowd. Am keeping: a peach-stone
taken from a box in the old General’s sulky. If I can get
the peach-stone to grow when I get back I will introduce
it as the Crojpje peach.
So local enterprise isn’t quite dead yet.
Re the banana par. in a late issue. It may
be of interest to note that a recent Theosophical
work called the “ Story of Atlantis ” cites the fact
of the seedless banana being found in both the
Eastern and Western tropical regions as evidence
of a sunken continent once uniting the now ocean-
sundered E. and W. The same book claims the
seedless banana as a triumph of prehistoric horti-
culture as practised .by the Mahatmas of the
period. Theosophists also claim that wheat was
not only discovered but invented by said sages in
Atlantis or Lemuria, and cite in proof (?) thereof
that wheat has never been found in the wild state,
although all the other cereals are.


Cured Her When a Little Cirl.
'ured Her Again When a Mother.
Takes Out AIT Disease from the Blood;
Gives Strength; A Splendid Tonic; An Indispensable
Household Medicine
Sarsaparilla
“I first used Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla when a little girl for debility and poor-
ness of the blood. It strengthened me greatly, built me right up, and made me
a'ell and strong. After a recent attack of typhoid fever I found myself very weak
;md again I thought of this wonderful strengthening medicine. So I began its
use, and with great; and lasting benefit. All my robust health is back again,
thanks to Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is a splendid tonic, purifies the blood, makes
it rich, and is an indispensable household medicine.”
This is a pi’actical experience which Mrs. 11. A. Steinberg, of Nelson St.,
East Adelaide, So. Australia, has had with Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. With this
she sends a photograph of herself and child, which we reproduce above with her
permission. Indeed, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Perhaps Mrs. Steinberg describes your condition, also. Perhaps your blood
is, thin, making you pale and weak ; perhaps you are depressed, discouraged.
Then there is a remedy that will build you up, made you st’-mg and vigorous
again. And it is a wonderful medicine for the children, too ; giving them good
flesh, rich blood, and steady nerves.
AYER’S s arsaparilla
Takes Out All Impurities fiom tue too.
AYER’S PILLS are gentle, safe, orough.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Luries
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
jYo Colonial should ever be without R'*
invaluable Remedy, whirl/ saves many lives.
JPor outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at 13. lhd., 2s. 2d., is. 6d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, 4 Patent Medicine Vendor*.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial House*.
csrsaieiT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Ij’Oß Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach. S*ck Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Spelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath. Cos ivoness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Troublin'.' Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL G■VFRK LI KF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
G- OIK A A
BEECH \ M'S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost, Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appd ‘ \ and
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, these
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to tho
v ervous and Debiliiated is that Beecham's Pills have the Larijest Sale of any Patent Medieine in
he vernl. lull diuctanb will) each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECEAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, ls lid, and. —s Od each.
Â
PLAIN HOME TALK
KM BRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
,10, Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, ami shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, I’LAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-.matle for nil occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
I)r. Carvbr's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love,Dress,etc. ls6dpost.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One's Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets ok Ancient and Modern M agio. 1m fid post free.
Art ok Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 Ulus. Is fid posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is fid.
Iron Nmd Kelly and His Hang (only true history).
Is fid posted.
Edith O’Gorman'b Convent Life Unveiled, Is fid post
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), lsfid post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is fid posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s fid posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2b ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is fid posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is fid posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
Ã
Ä
m
Pamlk
m
[ Sen-Sen (*. \
IFARRINGTON AV EMJE*
f LONDON.
INVALUABLE TO
SINGERS & SPEAKERS
m
tie
m
BONNINGTON’S
WILL CURE
<§J
v?
IRISH MOSS
That Hacking Cough
That Troublesome Cold
That Annoying Influenza
BONNINGTON’S PILLS.
REMEDY for BILE, INDIGES'EKXN,
DISORDERED LIVER.


The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANDEACTOREE3
mo , ,
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne:
Brookman’s Building:, Adelaide.
w ITH proper treatment all Diseased can be
CURED
but not all patients, and this depends entirely on
the condition of the digestive organs, which, if in
perfect order, will be the means of producing rich,
pure blood. Then you can laugh at disease. But
if in an imperfect state they cannot perform their
duties, and impure, weak blood is the result.
Henoe the origin of innumerable diseases. In
treatment, the main object should be to remove
the oause—not the result, that will leave of its
own accord. Some men are specialists in all
diseases, and can cure anything and everything,
but the undersigned only professes to cure Two
Diseases, viz., INDIGESTION and RHEUMA-
TISM ; and in this city there are abundant proofs
in the persons of commercial and prominent
gentlemen who were affected in the very
worst forms. My method is—One Remedy
FOR
One Disease, and during my long experience I have met
these diseases—tesulting in Constipation, Spinal Troubles,
Contracted Muscles, Stiff Joints, Asthma, Chronic and
Acute Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Gout, Neuralgia,
Liver and Kidney Troubles, etc.—not only in persons
walking about, but on their backs and in their beds.
Stiff frjm head to foot, locked fast, immovable and dis-
figured, with but one desire, viz., that they may die.
Th;se are the cases that I have grappled with, and have
cured witli the Remedies which I will send to any part
of the globe on receipt of
ONE POUND!
with full particulars. The digestive organs are made
healthy, the stomach, liver and kidneys thoroughly
cleansed, then the food makes rich blood, and disease
takes nob only a back seat, but clears out altogether.
ARTHUR MALCOLM, Specialist,
160 Grafton-st., Woollaiira, Sydnkv, N.S.W.
THE WORTHINGTON
.... IS THE ORIGINAL. .. .
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON
COMP
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK-
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
mammatt’s
SPOONS & FORKS
•SreOCWAVOTTR
y ILL JLV
<©HE J^BBOr
J. & J. MAXPIEI.T), rnopns-, SnEFFinLO,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MAR K.
€E>oo©s)
40U
Empire Chambers, 93 York St,
„ SYDNEY.
Also at
“ TECH BLOCK,**
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- C. !F~rvm=?.T:DGKE &c CO.,
DYEItS ft CI-EANKKS,
40 YOJCIv S'litHKi', SYDXIiY
(o|>]>. Centenary Hall).
Country Ordet i l>u j unt /row ml the colonies promi/lly
at temud to.
ROBERTS’
George and ■Bf| T f I
Market-Sts. B ■ B EL Bau
Board or Apartments at Option.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E P PS’S
GRATBFUlr- COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREA KFAST - SUPPER.
FRESH
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • • •
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a lew, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only |d- per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your Orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
at any price. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
toad toutter is dear
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
Å
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MIMING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
SOLE LICENSEES FOR THE MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF
/ ~ . „ /
THE ROPP STRAIGHT LINE FURNACE)
A.ISIXD
Wethey Multiple Deck Furnace with Cooling Hearth
FOR
Koasting,
Chlorinating,
AND
Desulphurising Ores,
IN STOCK
HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL ENGINES AND BOILERS of all sizes, ROCKBREAKERS, ROLLS, PUL.
VERISERS, CONCENTRATORS, HOISTING ENGINES, HORSE WHIMS, PUMPS of all kinds, WATER
WHEELS, PULSOMETERS, BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, COMPRESSORS, ROCK DRILLS, ORE CARS
SKIPS AND BUCKETS, ELECTRO-COPPER PLATES, SHAFTING AND PULLEYS, BELTING, AND OILS.
Blake Steam Pumps
te'LA/KEj
mM
Single & Duplex,
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping
purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
3
AX'
*J~*»
We Have Stood the Test
—AND—
Walther’s Sadlcaiery
LEADS IN QUALITY AND PEICE.
WE
TRADE
TO
MAKE
MONEY
No. 1 Stockman’s
Made on strong tree, with
plated bars, plated over head
and round cautle and double
gullet plate, hogskin seat,
fitted with stirrup leathers
and split-leather girths.
dEa 17s. e«a.
BY BIG
TURNOVER
AND
SMALL
PROFITS.
pp ’ e ed Freight Free to any port or railway station in N.S.W., if cast
i rent nth order, or 5 per cent, discount allowed to any of the adjoining
colon as. CUT OUT THIS ADVERTISEMENT, and we will allow
2i per cent. Special Bonus.
C. H. WALTHER & CO.,
24a HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Send for our Illustrated Priee Lilt
The Best in Australia.
Ser
t*r- a blessing in every family.
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virluesof these erand medicines have not been
recognised hv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is atones
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxkor»-st., London, jyy' pur-
chasers should look to the Libel on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
SECOND-HAND
AND
N
EW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
1
HUY FROM US AND
SAVK fttt Hilt CENT.
XI Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned!
- Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of he*»
quality at. fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georce-st. (3 doors past Hunter-sfcA iV'DNET
Telephone 1023.
