

McE WAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY, IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE
Absolutely
| Pure,
therefore
Best
Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
107 Kent Street, SydLney,
Mining and Contractors’
Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Bffacliinery, Mining Becjnisites
Z- XPLOSIVES ’ BUILDERS’ AND GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
mn
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST WINEA&>
IN AUSTRALIA.
t3T Send for Price L'st
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
2G3 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Mian. n. _ __ - " —"T-.""-. r-j
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° m pm are.., SYDNEY.
-i- T ,
Ruston, Proctor
SOLE AGENTS FOR
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE—PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL. FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES
EGOBKTXRIC THRA-SHIKTa
'
AND BOILERS AND PUMPS.
MACHINES, SAW BEITCBES, Ao., &o.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
SANDEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LIC ENSED GROCERS.
■■
1
imi
i
m
HOBART.
JtSjSi
Hadley s Orient jjotel.
V-
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
„.^ Il '4 |, ? LIS ’S. GEORGE HOTEL, opposites
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Aecoimnodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lot
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
°?
, -i' V v
n
To every purchaser of
one of our famous 4s.
6d. Paraguayan 14ct.
GOLD CHAINS (either
Gent.’s or Lady’s) we
will present, on Pay-
ment of 6s. extra, the
RAILWAY WATCH,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
a JEWELLED, FULL-
DAY, PERFECT
LEVER MOVEMENT,
SHORT WIND WATCH
wound and hands set
from stem, strong and
\
reliable, same as used on the railways of Great Britain.
We guarantee entire satisfaction. We make this extra-
ordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICELIST, and to
make ourselves talked about. The Watch and Chain is
sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of 10s. 6d. and 6d.
for postage. H. POTIER & CO., 53 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by tbeN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWICT& SON, LTD.,
117 Y orlt Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
m
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
■ 201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
GOOD, PUKE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
m
HIGHLAND
CREAM
nm
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and 00., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
tieeie o-:r,:e.a.t . . .
CASCADE ALE
IS HISIR-IE TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and 00., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
n
m
n
m
n
BEST IMPORTED DARK TOBACCO IN THE MARKET.
TRY IT ! TRY IT I TRY IT I -a®
mn
From Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, an<T
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH, FRENCH, GERMAN
and SPANISH RARE BOOKS.
R. GENNERT,
S9o FAUBOURC ST., MARTIN, PARIS, FRANCE.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp,
m
economy in -
. - - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
BE EH & mi
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carrington-sfcreefc.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot-Central Buildin s Edward -st., Brisbane
The Bulletin
Vol. 21.—JNo. 1076.,
[Saturday, September 29, 1900.
Registered at the General Pest Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a TTewsnaner.


Notice to Bookfellows.
READY SHORTLY.
No. II OF “THE BULLETIN” BOOKLETS,
A. SlosQ of Elegreti
By James; Hebblethwaite.
A selection of this charming writer's best verses.
Note.—Only 500 copies are printed for sale, numbered.
No. I. of the Bulletin Booklets is out of print. Order*
should be booked in advance.
Price, Is. 9d., post free.
Wurry M.—
About “ coloured hearing.” Are there any R.P. readers
who have their colour sense excited by sound ? do any
two find the same sound produce similar effects ? These
are some of ray experiences (but I can only get good
results in darkness and silence). Gon a piano is always
red, the red of venous blood. A-fiat is to me a rich
orange, like an Emperor mandarin among the dark -green
foliage of the tree. A is absolutely colourless —looks or
sounds like pure cold water ; but B-flat has to me no
colour at all. B-na;tural is the bluish colour of a knife-
blade ; -C-natural the yellow of Chartreuse jaune ; and
F-natural the bluish-gray of a sea-gull’s back. The inter-
vening notes have no colour, except E-flat, which at
times suggests some colour that I cannot define. Tome,
most men, when angry, speak in some shade of red,
though I know one (very passionate) with a dark-
grey voice. I have tried to reason that the relation-
ship of these sounds and colours is due to association, but
it won’t work out. As a youngster I had never seen
Chartreuse, but the first time I did 1 recognised the note
C. Bid anyone ever notice that nearly all barmaids have
dull brick-red laughs? Can anyone pick out a Sydney
parson with a voice the colour of the scum on dirty,
stagnant water—a sort of grey -green ?
SYDNEY COPYING AGENCY
104 Woolloomooloo-St.j Sydney.
OAREFULLY-TYPED COPIES made of rare and un-
published Books in public and private libraries.
Students’ information, literary extracts, etc., in two days.
Price accordin ' to work.
Any Book or Magazine procured at Sydney prices.
the
THROAT, the
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptio
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
n
L. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
The Trachea or windpipe.
The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
>. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous draff ...
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, fn Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland— post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE BED PAGE.
The Australian in the Tropics.
Condensed from a paper read by Dr. Josbph Ahearnb, of
Townsville, N.Q., to the R.C. Congress at Sydney.
WHILE journeying in America some three
years ago I became acquainted with F.
Marion Crawford, and had the pleasure
of hearing him lecture on “Mr. Isaacs.”
His introduction was a rehearsal of the circum-
stances that led to his career as a novelist. The
first essential incident in the series was the picking
up of a book from a dust-covered heap, to place in
his knapsack as he was preparing to start on a
walking tour through the hills behind Rome. In
the guest-room of a country inn he found it
was an old Sanskrit Grammar that he had brought
for his holiday reading. There was no help for it,
and he became interested ; pursuing the study of
the language at the University later, he developed
into a Sanskrit scholar. One day a man was
wanted to go as a newspaper editor to Allahabad;
Marion Crawford was sought out, chosen, and,
despite his protest that he knew nothing of
journalism, was despatched there. Business took
him to Simla, where, at the hotel, he met the
fascinating person he has thinly disguised under
the name of “ Mr. Isaacs.” On leaving India, he
dined -with an uncle in New York, and told him,
after dinner, of his attractive acquaintance—the
Eastern gentleman. His uncle made him promise,
before their late-at-night parting, that he would
write the story—so his first novel was written
under the pressure of this undertaking, and the
rest followed.
Was it by accident that Sanskrit book was
packed in the valise? Mr. Crawford most cer-
tainly believes it to be otherwise. At one time
we both would have attributed the agency to
intangible Fate —now, thank God, we are both by
our Faith enabled to regard such an episode, and
those of a kindred type, as due to the direction of
an all-wise Personal Providence. Thus, in my
own case, through a succession of occurrences,
from the most unlikely beginning, I find myself,
in obedience to His Will, addressing the Austra-
lian Catholic Congress of the year 1900. This is
my justification.
* « * •
No one will spend time profitably here who does
not accept without faltering the truism that God
rules the universe. “And God said let there be
lights in the firmament, to divide the days from
the night, and let these be for signs, and for
seasons, and for 1 days and years.”
“And let them be for lights in the firmament
of the Heaven to give light upon the Earth ; and
it was so.”
And it is so—because, fortunately, Man is
powerless to amend the movements of the sun and
moon.
He made Man, and “sent him forth from the
Garden of Eden to till the ground from whence
he was taken.”
What was His intention ? Saint Paul tells us
in his Athenian speech : “He hath made of one
blood all nations of men for to dwell upon all the
face of the earth, and hath determined the times
before appointed and the bounds of their habita-
tion.
Being an intelligent God, He equipped Man so
that he should be suitable to His environment.
Accordingly, He designed that men should vary
in color and shades of temperament to fitly
occupy the multiple regions of the globe.
• * • *
Look at a map of the earth’s surface between
the tropical lines Cancer and Capricorn, the belt
known to everyone as the Tropics. It includes
Siam, Borneo, Java, Hindostan, Mid Africa,
West Indies, the Panama Isthmus, and the Can-
nibal Islands. It almost needs an apology to tell
you that the inhabitants of these countries are
black. We have inside this area, also, the
Northern part of Queensland, jutting into the
Arafura Sea; close neighbor to New Guinea, on
the level of Fiji. The aboriginal owners are
black —very black—but a white race is meantime
in occupation : it is of this people I would speak.
Are they in the “ bounds of their habitation ” ?
If not, what penalties are they paying for stepping
over Nature’s boundary ?
I propose to deal with the inexorable exactions
under three heads. This confidence of mine is
meant as assurance of brief infliction, to avoid an
experience a bishop once had in. the House of
Lords. He rose and began by saying he intended
to divide his speech into twelve heads. . . Lord
Durham thereupon got up and begged leave to
interpose for a few minutes to tell the House an
anecdote. He was returning home, he said, a few
nights before; and passed St. Paul’s Cathedral
just before midnight. As he did so there was a
drunken man trying to see the time. Just then
the clock began to strike the hour and slowly
tolled out twelve. The drunken man listened,
looked hard at the clock, and said, “ Damn you !
why couldn’t you have said all that at once ? ”
At this relation the bishop condensed his re-
marks.
• » » *
Well, then, the White Race in North Queens-
land is undergoing modification physically, men-
tally, and morally. Physically —in a decided
narrowing of chest capacity and of the trunk
generally. In less decided though definite ten-
dency to disproportionate elongation.
I may be permitted to use an extract from a
paper I read in 1896 before the Australasian Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science. It is a
comparison of measurements between boys on the
North Queensland coast and boys of similar ages
in England.
Average Ohest-girth of
Average Ohest-girth of Boys in North Queens-
English Boys land (data supplied
(Maclaren’s Tables). by Head-Teachers
of Schools).
At 10 years is 25-1 inches At 10 years is 24 inches.
At 11 „ 26$ „ At 11 „ 24$ „
At 12 „ 27$ „ At 12 „ 25$
At 13 „ 28$ „ At 13 „ 26
At 14 „ 29$ „ At 14 „ 27 „
At 15 „ 30| „ At 15 „ 28 „
The usual exception turned up in a healthy place called
Bowen, where a boy of 14 measured 31$ inches around
the chest.
So much for the width —now for the height:
When the arms, are placed horizontally during
moderate expiration, the circumference imme-
diately under the nipples and the angles of the
shoulder blades should be equal to half the length
of the body. However, in North Queensland I
find that the mean length of the bodies of 58
boys exceeds the mean circumference of their
chests by 1.15-16 in.: that is to say, in North
Queensland a boy is two inches taller than he
ought to be. What of that? Ah ! In these
days of scientific economy, it is hydraulic waste :
it is pumping a column of fluid two inches higher
than was normally intended, 70 times per minute
for every 24 hours year after year, until the pump
is prematurely worn out, if accident does not
throw it violently out of gear. '
And what is the effect of a narrow chest ? A
narrow ohest means limited lung space. It is
easy to conceive this, if one remembers that
Nature does not exert herself unnecessarily in any
direction. A large share in the elimination of
bumt-up material from the body is performed
through the skin and the lungs. In a cold climate
the skin is obviously very moderately used as com-
pared with its use in the tropics ; hence in a cold
climate the lungs are called upon to be ventilators
and energetic eliminators of noxious gases. The
continued automatic action enlarges the chest
space of the growing child —which, of course, re-
mains capacious when the adult frame-work is
completed, provided disease does not interfere.
On the other hand, when the skin acts perspir-
ingly, and to all extents continuously, such lung
space is not needed and the chest proportion must
essentially be moderate.
This must affect an individual’s suitability for
cosmopolitan residence and occupation. While
the Englishman is furnished to undergo the trials
of the tropics, the tropical white native is not
framed for residence in the harsher countries.
Indeed, in the latitude he has made his own, the
tropical resident of some years standing possesses
less endurance than his fellow workman imported
from a more bracing locality.
I remember making an official visit to report on
the sanitary state of a camp in the neighborhood
of a big engineering work which was being carried
out by Southern contractors. One of the firm told
me he had employed local men at the beginning of
the operations, and for a time, a short time only,
matters progressed with satisfaction. The work
was hard, and gradually, one after another, the
hands retired, admitting they needed a spell.
Substitutes from the Southern colonies were
brought to fill their places. This was not a ques-
tion of wages—it was simply a case of getting
work done in a certain time; and local men, I
was. assured, failed to support the necessary
strain.
This experience can be reasonably believed from
what I have said. When the lungs are freely
used, quick oxygenation is proceeding, tissue
change is accomplished rapidly, and good red
blood courses speedily through the channels of the
system.
The elongation, the length without propor-
tionate width, weakens the back; the spine is
indifferently buttressed ;it gives; curves. This is,
perhaps, more the case amongst girls, who have
not the same amount of athletic exercise as boys.
So, with weaker body muscles to sustain them,
girls relieve the vertebral weight imposed on its
pelvic base by instinctively stooping, crouching
forward, making a concavity of the chest, which
of itself is predisposed to become hollow. Of
course, this injury is fostered by the senseless
parents who put their children’s feet in shoes;
and later, the girl exaggerates her deformity when
she struts the pavement in the high-heeled shoe
of the French coquette. Unattractive, ugly, this
gait which silly woman voluntarily assumes. The
poor Chinese female has to submit to severe
distortion of her feet, although the infant voice
pityingly protests with rending cries against the
cruelty. After all, it is only the feet that are
squeezed out of shape in China; but your girls,
your sisters, your wives throw the body out of its
natural axis and so dispose it to a train of bad
consequences. Thus it is quite plain to understand
how and why the Registrar-General of Queens-
land, in his vital statistics for 1898, has the
melancholy statement to report—“By far the
most fatal (cause of death) to child life was
enteritis; the next was premature birth.” He
remarks —“This is more properly speaking a
cause of death rather than disease.”
Give me the carriage of the aboriginal woman,
who, shoeless in every land, fulfils the familiar
words of the Nature-loving poet, “ Vera incessu
pxtuit dea.” This amendment of the framework,
with its reduction in space, is of more serious im-
port to the female than to the stronger sex. The
vital redress of the blood depends primarily on
the supply of oxygen, so that diminished lung
area, which is air surface, means impairment of
blood —in popular language, thinness of blood.
Our women therefore are pale, and suffer exhaus-
tion from the demands upon their vital energy.
And it requires no argument—surely statement is
enough to gain your adhesion to the proposition—
that a woman to be a mother should not be
anaemic, listless, jaded—offering, as somebody has
neatly said before me, the silent plea of a spirit-
less non-possumus. People who, in the South,
complain of the enervation induced by the op-
pressiveness of the two or three days that precede
a southerly buster, may try to imagine weeks,
months of such weather. Sick women lie swelter-
ing in hot beds, pale children make ghastly
attempts at play, men expose their perspiring
chests to feel the air they make by their own
motion, for often no movement is in the atmo-
sphere itself. Dense with moisture that one may
almost collect between the palms, this atmosphere
rests provokingly, while the great sun shines
drowsily through the haze, with a smile as of con-
scious power, directed to those helpless against
his mood. For seven months in the year, on the
coast, this is the true condition every day until
the sea breeze reaches the shore during the south-
east monsoons; and it is true of all day and all
night, when the winds come from the north and
the rainy season is established.
Is this a fair field for motherhood ?—for most of
our mothers are good natural women, who nourish
their babies to their own injury—risking, I might
almost say, forfeiting, thereby any attractive
freshness they might have had ; an attractiveness
which it is the lot of their more favoured dusky
sisters in the same latitudes to possess and retain
for a span.
The children, however, who live thrive in their
first years until the influence of climate overcomes
that of race.
To minimise the glare, and with instinct to pro-
tect the eyes from the fierce rays of light, we get
face and forehead wrinkles, making the young
look old and knowing.
We get freckles which are merely pigmentary
changes; some more, some less, according to the
degrees of exposure and individual susceptibility.
But individual susceptibility may be considered a
minor factor only, for all skins change to the expo-
sure, and all parts—the bared arms and chest of
the bushman, the uncovered legs of the beach-
comber, stain under the influence of the tropical
sun. I firmly believe that the coastal inhabitants,
if fenced off from benefiting by the introduction
of fresh material, would darken in color, or die out.
This is a suggestion which I do not present as a
sensational random opinion, and I offer you in
support a few comprehensive sentences that tell
very muoh in its favor.
Sir Joseph Fayrer, M.D., F.R.S., has spent the
greater part of his honourable life in distinguished
service in India. On the 30th May of this present
year he delivered to the Baleneological and Cli-
matological Society an address in which he states,
“ Past history shows, however, that colonisation
by the unmixed European race in the plains of
India is impracticable. In the very rare instances
in which the third generation has been reached it
had evidently attained its utmost desirable limits;
whilst to the Portuguese who preceded us, no
descendant unalloyed by native blood can be said
to exist.”
India lies between the Bth and 35th parallels of
North latitude ; North Queensland lies between
10 degrees and 21 degrees South. There may be
a special intervention of Providence to favor the
white North Queenslander. I doubt it.
Of course, we have trouble with our teeth, but
that is not altogether a consequence of
geographical distribution, nor indeed is the pro-
fession of dentistry a modern art. We, know that
in the luxurious period of the Roman Empire
teeth were stopped and bridging was done;
whereas the hardy Goths, living on simple food,
ignorant of refined methods in artificial feeding,
were not afflicted with “that hell o’ a’ diseases.”
• • • •
To advance to the mental effects. I deal with
these as they display themselves in temperament;
by temperament, I mean an inherent disposition
fostered by local influences such as led to the
making of cold tea in Boston Harbor, such as
created the bobbery over Clause 74 of the Com-
monwealth Bill a trifle over a century afterwards.
It is temperament that Cardinal Logue referred to
in Bradford the other day, when of Catholic
University claims he said: “There is stubborn
resistance on the part of the Orangemen ; in fact
they never reason on these questions in Ireland —
they fight them.” By the way, this valuable
characteristic to ours explains why English
generals, real generals, are always Irish ;—pug-
nacious, brilliant Irishman; stubborn, supercilious
Englishman, each has a temperament affirmative,
definite.
The Atlantic mists coming from the wide West,
driven by strong gales, do not linger tediously on
the Emerald Hills, they speed quickly through
the green valleys; the companionable sun peeps
out now and then with a quarter of an hour’s
smile on almost the worst kind of day. This rapid
movement, familiar to the native eye, impressing
the retina, may be causa causans of our volatile
methods. On the other hand the dense fog of the
Channels and the North Sea, whose scarcely
penetrable gloom invades Westminster and Down-
ing-street and the adjacent country, lasting for
days together, sets the mind stolid, is accountable
for introspection, has planted the habit of strug-
gling with dark complications, and patiently
striving with difficulties to overcome them.
The everlasting sun’s heat makes people selfish :
les faineants aiment leur aise. In the tropics
man, to be a nice man, should sit down under a
shady tree all day and eat fruit. Contrast the
pleasant, good-tempered Hawaiian, lover of
flowers, dilettante consumer of vegetables, with
theDyakof Borneo, who nervously rushes through
life hunting for heads ; or the equable Kanaka of
the New Hebrides with the restless Solomon
islander, who raids his neighbor to devour his
flesh. It is apparent—the stern, rapacious eager-
ness in these men-eaters, these tropical beef-eaters.
Good fighters. Yes ! cruel, quick, full of nerves.
So if we want endurance we must have beef. I
dare to say the pale clerk who eats meat twice a
day will out-fight, and out-last, and out-starve the
burly agricultural laborer, whose big thews and
sinews are mostly compounded of potatoes, corn,
and water. And as oUr climate resents activity,
we eat much beef to yield energy and defy climate.
We eat beef very young, and we get energy—
nerve energy ; and so we go to school early, very
early—voluntarily—our children love school with
an unnatural liking—it is morbid. Thus we enter
on the anxieties of life prematurely. What for ?
Education.
But is it good education her daughter has had,
when the best of English mothers tells one “ The
girls won’t do anything at home —I have to cook
and clean the brass-work, or it would not be done
well, if at all ” ? When an exemplary Irish widow
declares of her girls, “The natives are too lazy to
work, ” On the other hand, it is too much trouble
for the relaxed parents to exact obedience. ' With
the school anxiety and the sacrifice of mind and
muscle, we tire young.
The shopman is slow to serve, does not think of
suggesting alternative purchases, or recommending
what you don’t want —he wishes you hadn’t come
in, he longs for you to be gone. In fact, acute-
ness of early wear and tear weakens the nerve-
cells. Mind impressions are not distinctly
stamped—-receptivity is not assured. To draw a
parallel—-when one touches an electric button, if
the battery is well charged, and the connections
be well insulated, the click of the record is sharp,
and the indications definite. If the battery-fluid
be weak, or the insulation imperfect, or the disc
hinge slack, you do not wonder to have a blurred
register.
* * * *
But let us pass on from dwelling on this phase
to the consideration of our moral atmosphere.
Moral changes suggest to me the 42nd chapter
of Horrebow’s “Natural History of Iceland.”
The heading is “ Concerning Owls,” and the entire
contents of the chapter consist of this simple sen-
tence—“ There are no owls of any kind in , the
whole island.”
Now I do not wish to say we have no morals of
any kind. No! I mean to take a stand and de-
clare “North Queensland’s moral life is better
than prevails in N.S. Wales.”
That is my chapter, in which T imitate Horre-
bow’s briefness. However, I ask permission to
append a note, as it were—one often comes across
nearly a whole page of notes to a few lines of text.
Note: The femme detraquec is not encouraged
amongst us—the morally degenerate female does
not bloom in our society.
A school Sister enquiring after absentees, ask-
ing the children the reason of their absence, was
invariably answered that they were detained at
home to mind the babies. One day, being tired
of this repeated excuse, the Sister said, half in
fun, to a little girl, “Bother the babies!” The
child evidently brought the story home, for next
day the Sister had a long letter from the mother
in which, amongst other good things, she wrote :
“ I would have you know, Sister, that I am not
like some of our new-fashioned women who have
no babies, and dislike them, too. lam an old-
fashioned woman, and I believe in babies.’’
But, while admitting we are “ not too good ” (in
the present dreadful idiomatic vogue) all Australia,
in fact, might be a lot worse, notwithstanding the
critical chastisement of a candid visitor and the
admonitions of a prophet in our own country. No
need to be hysterical; for I read from the Regis-
trar-General of Queensland that in N.S.W. the
rate of illegitimacy was above that in Queensland ;
on the other hand the ratio for South Australia
was remarkably low. The figures are: —Queens-
land, 6'04, illegitimate births per cent. ; N.S.
Wales, 6'93 ;S. Australia, 3‘<>2. And, further, I
think it is as well we should know from the same
source that “Although the present rate of
illegitimacy is in excess of what formerly ob-
tained. it still compares well with most European
countries. According to Mnlhall, some of them
are as follows : England, 5'4 illegitimate births
per cent. ; Germany, B'7; France, 7'4; Sweden,
10 '2; Austria, 13’5.
I have been speaking particularly about the
coast country. On the N.Q. tableland, however,
the conditions are better. Although we have a
few exceptional elevations, they are not used as
in India for hill stations. These Fayrer describes
as “Resorts in which the European may preserve
his health and avoid the deterioration which in-
evitably results from protracted residence in the
plains—where indeed it seems, even possible that
lie may take root, thrive, and propagate his race,
and for which there are grounds for belief that
the prospects of success are not altogether un-
favorable, though so far no conclusive proof is
forthcoming.” Our Herberton district is high,
about 3000 feet ; there we have broad-chested,
rosy-cheeked children, and the languor of women
in a great measure disappears. The interior
averages perhaps only 1000 feet above sea-level.
It is even now obvious to the open-eyed observer
that the stalwart pioneers who drove the first
cattle and sheep on to the unsettled north country
are being succeeded by slimmer types of men.
And now, if J have made plain my own belief that
white people in the tropics are beyond “the
bounds of their habitations,” I trust I have in a
measure succeeded in justifying that belief.
It is well if it can be established in the minds of
dwellers in temperate Australia that the con-
ditions of life and climate in tropical Queensland
are special. It will be well if those facts, those
local conditions, be recognised and remembered by
the legislator of the Commonwealth, who will
serve the best interests of his country by preserv-;
ing the humility becoming to ignorance in matters
affecting purely tropical questions if he be par-
donably egotistical on all others. Perhaps I can
best illustrate my immediate purpose by telling a
ridiculous story probably altogether untrue. It is
one of the many told of President Lincoln in the
difficult days of the American War. He wanted
a Comlnander-in-Chief, and happening to be in
conversation with a friend on the subject of the
struggle, asked him if he had ever commanded an
army. “No! Mr. President,” was the reply.
“Do you think you could command an army?”
“I presume so, Mr. President; 1 know nothing to
the contrary.” He was appointed Commander-in-
Chief at once.
It should be the prayer of all of us that the gen-
tlemen soon to be commissioned by the Southern
constituencies will be temperate in their meddling
with tropical affairs. May they indulge the self-
confidence of Mr. Lincoln’s Commander-in-Chief
in fields where experiment and* crude theory can
be practised without endangering a national
industry by ill-timed radical disturbance. I do
not wish to touch on anything political. It is an
economic question of deep universal conoern to
the whole Australian nation—the question of how
work is to be done in the tropical plains and jun-
gles ; and that question will no doubt be raised in
the Federal Parliament. It merely occurred, to
me to make use of my. little effort in attempting
to draw a moral, as it were—a commonsense
moral.


ASTORAL r INANCE u SSOC’N IaTD.
WOOL & PRODOGE BROKERS
—(SELLING ONLY)—
LOWEST CHARGES. HIGHEST RETURNS.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Probers,
Consolidated Charge) rtl i%A|P AAh4< /Includes all Charges excepting
for Selling Wool f PCT GGSIZm |cartage from steamer’s wharf
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. uo.
S YDKTE Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
t ho
VS
‘Or/,5
iVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
m
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
I PS?JI® 1 iL DESPAIR * DO NOT SUFFER
. LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give' prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and,
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
~ . _ , £ s. d.
Flam Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 (
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0 '
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 22 0 (
Extra powerful, with suspensory ’
attachments 380 I
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0 (
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be '
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and!
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for'
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, I
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c. ’
All communications should be addressed to— t
A. D. STEPHENSON, '
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney |
ROW’S EMBROCATION
Testimonial from “A” Battery, R.A.A.
EDW. ROW, Esq., Sydney. Upingt ° n ’ S ° Uth AMCa ’ 10th AUgUBt ’ 19 °°-
Dear Sir.—Your Embrooation, which you presented “ A ” Battery, R.A.A., with on leaving Sydney for South
Africa,, came in very useful on board ship. I continually used it for swollen legs, and found it excellent in
reducing the swelling ; and also while travelling through the country it was very useful indeed, both for sores on
horses and the men. It is also a splendid cure for sprains. A lot of our men have used it for that cause with
instant relief. We have still one bottle left, and
IT IS TREASURED LIKE GOLD.
Thanking you for your gift, I remain, yours truly,
(Sg.) M. ROSS, SERGEANT FARRIER, “A ” BATTERY,
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN ARTILLERY.
P.S. — You can make use of this letter whatever way you like. —M.R.
THIS UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIAL FROM Mr. SERGEANT-FARRIER ROSS ONLY REPEATS THE
EXPERIENCES OF MANY THOUSANDS WHO HAVE BENEFITED BY USING
ROW’S EMBROCATION
SOLE PROPRIETORS: EDW. ROW and CO.
ALL WHO DESIRE-TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
m
b
v
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely remoyes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges, Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Mort*Go
LIMITED.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming Wool Season
2J
o
o
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN , MANAGER.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDKTKY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
” New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charge will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements -for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignment* of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of Marsupial Skins held. Weekly.
VINOLIA WAR FUND
AMOUNTS TO
£lO,OOO
REPRESENTING NEARLY
5,000,000 HA’PENNI
id. sent on every tablet sold.
m
K\
&c 0
v\ *RU?S
than**
*ith
2f/<
vvtoN. *«**
r*e
;: -^e.,-
s
! mi!t
m
Vinolia Soap is specially prepared for Sensitive Skins.
n
C B B
> m
SB 0 "'
ssva
a*.
*a
5807
&S,
\
KreyLSMs
©u&raofeecl oof to or buro.
CERTIFICATE.— ShouId any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling 1 Daily.
CBB
BRIAR
nick simmons
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.


TATTERSALL’S
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Caulfield C. October 20.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
Name
Address
Caulfield C. (SPECIAL).
100,000 Subaorlbera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. shares in above.
Name ——
Address ———
£ * *
Melbourne C. November 6.
100,000 Subaoribera at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me sha.rftß in the above.
Name
Address
06 t »
Melbourne C. November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at &
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
£
s
s
Melbourne C. (special.)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me — shares in the above.
Name
Address ■ _
s
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, mus
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
B<st Prices.
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
Af.o
**&*•
nv]
hivh
Wealth of
hair is wealth
indeed, espe-
cially to a
woman.
Every other
physical at-
traction is
secondary to
it.
If your hair
is too thin or losing its luster,
get—
Growth
becomes
vigorous
and all
dandruff is
removed.
mm
H&ir
visor
It always restores color to
gray or faded hair. Retain
yonr youth; don’t look old
before your time.
Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla puri-
fies the blood and clears the
complexion.
Prepared by
Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioi).
AGStraliai? ProVidept Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On eeourity of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD OITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Onr New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
„ RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-streot. Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
mn
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 108.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
itST Send for a
Catalogue.
m
Bent-Shaft SulUles
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H'- HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
tRASgA
A.& F. PEARS
Reduced Fac simile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
SOAP MAKERS,
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
_A NOVELTY IN SAUCE,
NTSERKAT
91
(TRADE MARK)
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE
SAUCE.
The Basis of which is « MONTSERRAT ” UME=FRUIT JUICE.
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is found, forms a most convenient basis for Sauce, and we invite
a trial. It has been pronounced by connoisseurs to be the Best Sauce before the Public.
It is also half the price of first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery , ■writes so far back as 1617, in a treatise on Scurvy: —
1 t -5- not , wnte how go ,d a sauce it (Lime-Juice) is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships
waste it in the great Cabin
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER SAUCE.
A.GrSn'TS a
SYDNEY Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.; E, Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE-D, Cohen & Co.
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Price 6s,
Post Free.
ON OUR SELECTION.
By Steele Ruder
Ire you Too Stout ?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change erf die,t.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent fine (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALING REMEDY 00., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
LADIES !
—Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 6s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales • • • \
Barbers* Supply House I
680-2 fl-eorge-sfc.,
SYDNEY*
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is a hardship upon N.S.W. road-main-
tenance-men (writes a correspondent) that they
don’t sometimes get their pay until long after the
proper time, because the wages are paid through
the district superintendents, who are often away
from their centres when payment is due.
Twain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Which is truest and most sure:
Maiden of the fair allure,
Or the maid with tresses deep
Dyed in darkness and in sleep ?
* * * *
I kissed her rosy mouth at morning-light—
For she was sweet as love, and life, and sin—
I heard a soft voice crying in the night;
And, oh, I let the dark-veiled woman in.
* * * *
The woman I love is fair
As a flower at sunrise,
With heart of gold in her hair,
And soul of blue in her eyes.
Her breasts are as white as foam
Of the sea at morning is,
And sweet as a honeycomb
Her passionate scarlet kiss.
When Sorrow with face morose
Comes along with his comrade Care,
She hides me, and keeps me close,
Beneath the veil of her hair.
And 0, but that veil is fine,
And as fine as fine gold spun
By Dawn in her dream divine
When Earth is Bride of the Sun.
We are as bridegroom and bride,
Pure without stain or flaw,
A sword lies us beside—■
And who will that sword withdraw ?
She sweeps the stars away,
The bright stars of the North and South,
And turns years into a day
With kisses of her red mouth.
She is tender and mystical
As a lily beneath the moon,
And red as a rose withal,
And sings a magical rune.
Her beauty will never fade,
’Tis sweet as a rose is sweet;
I know she will see me laid
Under the Winding Sheet.
For ever, when she draws near,
And her arms around me are,
I see, in a vision clear,
A woman who stands afar.
She stands on a shore of calm
Where no wild waves ever beat •
Above her is a palm,
A stone is at her feet.
That woman is dark and pale,
And a strange dark tune she plays;
She wears on her head the veil
That no man living may raise.
I know that strange tune hath charms
To awake me and lead me away,
And lure me out of the arms
Of her whom I love some day.
Some day, under other skies,
Or these same—on land or foam—■
That tune I shall hear and rise
And follow, follow it—Home.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
The Loving-Cup.
Australia :
Drink hael, 0 mother ! Let lips be red
With a draught new-drawn from the veins of the
dead !
England*:
Waes hael, O daughter ! I pledge you a bowl
From the vintage we pressed in the land that we
stole!
Australia :
Drink hael, 0 mother ! I laugh in scorn
At the men we slew and the wives that mourn !.
England:
Waes hael, O daughter ! From me you drew
The spirit that mocks at the men we slew.
Australia :
Drink hael, 0 mother ! I’m drunk with blood ;
Let me bathe to the neck in the crimson flood.
England:
Waes hael, 0 daughter ! The world is wide ;
From the throats of the free shall flow the tide.
V.
ISHMAEL.
Backward.
We hoped our century of calm increase,
With all the aid of Industry and Art,
Had weaned us from the Old World ways apart,
And set for aye our feet in paths of peace !
That we, inheriting the Golden Fleece,
Uncursed by war, should on our journey start,
With name unsullied and with guiltless heart,
To bring the day when nation-strife shall cease !
But ’cross the waters from our kindred came
The noise of men fast arming for the fray—
Grand seemed the Gun, god-bright the Sabre-
gleam !
See in our heart the blood-lust leap and flame,
The slumbering savage wake again to slay !
And shattered lies our glowing, radiant
Dream.
N.S.W.
ULOOLA.


THE
PLUM
nm
Price—SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRA.IO '& A.ITKBW, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Tbs Australian [gjidouis’ fund [ife Assurance Society jjtd.
Established 1871.
n''H!S SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board ok Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENVVICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £230,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretar}*.
n
FEDERAL mice HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMER, AND
CENTRE OF CITY.
Every Modern Convenience
Electric Light in Every Room
Sanitary Arrangements Perfect
Home Comforts
Suites for Families.
ROOMS ALL SIZES, ALL PRICES.
For Cards of Tariff write to . .
27. Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
WOOLGROWERS!
The enormous amounts that we have expended
in building WAREHOUSES for the
most advantageous display of your Wool and Produce is one of the ways in which we have studied your interests
before our own.
our supporters.
IT IS OUR POLICY to never spare our own resources in getting every possible good result for
\ 4 - . ' . . . ' ‘ .
ALL THE EXPERTS and BUYERS pronounce our Warehouses:
STHE BEST IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE!
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L T -?
YOUR SUPPORT
Financiers; Wool, Hides, Tallow, Shins, and General Produce Brokers .
THE ENJOYMENT OF TOBACCO
LARGELY DEPENDS UPON-THE
PIPE USED. THE CELEBRATED
BRIAR PIPES IBRANDED
B
OB
0
MAKE
.
ARE RECOGNISED; AS '.THE HOST
PERFECT, BOTH AS YO
MATERIAL AND.WORKMANSHIP.
Greatest demand
Cameo c i£jar*ettas
Bttflausc the Best*
ONE MILLION AND A QUARTER POUNDS
1,250,000 lbs. TOBACCO
Were the Sales for Dixson’s Sydney Factory for Year ending 30th June.
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading Tobacco in N.S. Wales.
OBTAINABLE THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE OF THE OTHER COLONIES.
CONQUEROR
THE WORKMAN’S TOBACCO-CHEW AND SMOKING. DOES NOT CHANGE.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS -
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same, never changes.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 10:6
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1900.
Price Gd.
THE GOVERNOR AND* HIGH MASS.
“We are eon 3 of sturdy fathers, who wrung
the great charter from the craven John!'.’ declared
the mover of the resolution condemning the ap-
pearance of the Governor at High Mase in St.
Mary's Cathedral. And the five or six thousand
people In the hall cheered themselves 'hoarse.
Englishmen Question the acta of their Sovereign
or her representative slowly and reluctantly, but
when they do speak their words have greater
weight, contended the speaker. He denied that
the protest was an act of disloyalty, and as be
called attention to the battles of religious factions
fought by our fathers, when the faith of Protes-
tants —their faith —emerged triumphant, so thati
the Kings and Queens of England swore to defend
it at their Coronation, wave after wave of ap-
plause swept up from the thousands of people
below him, and his worde, “We are profoundly
and intensely loyal to her Majesty, and profoundly
and Intelligently respectful to any gentleman who
represents her, but we claim the right to protest
when he misrepresents his royal mistress and our
beloved and honored sovereign." called forth the
enthusiastic approval of his hearers.
The meeting decided to send the resolution com-
plaining of the Governor’s action to Downing-
street.
ANOTHER NASTY JAR.
GOOD LITTLE BOY AT N.S. W. GOVT. HOUSE : “Well, it’s no use trying to please these beastly colonials. Why, even if I go to church, I put mv foot in it !”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Priifted and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tjie Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required —
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will caref ully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraph •,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that toe
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient,
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
-will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted .for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotcli, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co. , Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 3h6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., S 3 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia, and ATaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Neiospapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of IW. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — l id. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Pdst Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1900.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.—The
Federal Tariff.
Next year it will be necessary to make a
Customs tariff for all Australia, and there-
fore the whole tariff question will come up
for review as a matter of necessity. Conse-
quently, the subject will be argued all over
again, and in view of this opportunity a
great rally of the Foreign-trade party is
already being organised, and the old brass
god is being specially scoured and burnished
for the occasion. A new weekly paper,
decorated with most lamentable illustra-
tions, most of them showing a partly-dressed
female with large feet (understood to be
Britannia), has been started to meet the
emergency, and much irrelevant and bare
assertion is published therein. The Foreign-
trade party is once more bellowing its two
old war-cries, which are : “ Look at Eng-
land, and see the wondrous prosperity
that arises through Freetrade,” and
“Look at Victoria, and see the
awful disasters that arise through
Protection.” And these two war-whoops
certainly do a great deal of service. Very
many people don’t look at all ; they simply
take things for granted. A few do look,
and note the fact that the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Ireland is the richest
country in Europe, has the most commerce,
the most manufactures, and the most of
some other things, and are convinced
thereby that Freetrade must be best. And
yet these matters, in themselves, have no-
thing at all to do with the subject in dispute.
It is a primitive kind of baby logic that only
looks at one end of a case and takes no heed
of the other end. Britain is admittedly
ahead of many Protectionist countries in
many respects. And if Britain is farther
nhead of them than she was when she aban-
doned Protection then it may be fairly claimed
that Freetrade has a good case. But if
Britain, though still ahead, is not so
far in front as she was when she left
off Protection then Freetrade has no
case worth mentioning. If, on the whole,
she is only the same distance ahead,
then it is a dead-heat. Britain, previous to
about 1840 or 1850, was one of the most
intensely Protectionist countries in the
world ; and Britain then was far in advance
of almost every other country in almost
everything. The energy, intelligence,
aggressiveness, and fighting capacity of her
people, and the fact that she was more Pro-
tectionist than most of her rivals, had given
her a lead that seems almost incredible
when the facts are viewed in cold print.
Then Britain took to Freetrade, while her
leading rivals either remained Protectionist
or became more Protectionist. And then,
for the first time, the relative merits of the
two policies had a chance of fair comparison.
* * * #
The heat and burden of the following
statistics are mostly taken from the latest
edition of the great “Dictionary of Statis-
tics ” of Mulhall, the best-known statisti-
cian of the day, and himself an Englishman
and a Freetrader. Where the “ Dictionary
of Statistics ” doesn’t contain the required
information Mulhall’s “Industries and
Wealth of Nations ” has been used instead,
but the eminent Freetrade statistician is the
authority used all through. Britain is
quoted as the typical representative of Free-
trade ; France, Germany, and the United
States as the leading representatives of Pro-
tection. It was impossible to set against the
three great Protectionist States three great
Freetrade ones, for there ajen’t three nota-
ble examples of Cobden’s hazy policy. So
far as possible, the statistics deal with a
comparison of the years 1840 and 1896 ; the
first date goes far enough back to take in the
beginning of the Freetrade period in Bri-
tain : and the second one is adopted because
the statistics go no further. Where different
years are used it is only because Mulhall
doesn’t furnish figures for these two exact
dates. Unlike the Sydney Freetrade organ,
whose main argument consists in unsup-
ported assertion and the villainous woodcut
of the woman with big feet, The Bulletin
gives chapter and verse for all its statements,
and it quotes from a Freetrade authority in
every case.
* * * *
The comprehensive test of progress is the
wealth of each State, in proportion to its
population. That includes everything—
shipping, railways, canals, buildings, tele-
graphs, mines, factories, agricultural and
pastoral products, forests—everything. The
ordinary Freetrade authority, as a rule,
sticks closely to Britain’s superiority in com-
merce and shipping, and if shipping was the
only form of wealth, he would be quite
justified. But shipping has no more right
to be considered to the exclusion of other
forms of wealth than have wheat or brown
soap or new-laid eggs. If Britain rules the
world in commerce it is good for Britain,
but if, where Britain makes a million out of
commerce, another country makes a million
out of peanuts, one fully balances the other.
The total wealth per inhabitant is the test
which includes all assets, and therefore the
following figures are a solemn essay on the
futility of that logic which consists in waving
the arms windmill-fashion and crying wildly,
“ Look at England ! ” The figures in brackets
refer to the page in the 1899 edition of Free-
trader Mulhall’s “ Dictionary of Statistics ”
where the information may be obtained.
The figures for 1840 are worked out from
Mulhall’s estimates of wealth and popula-
tion, and anybody can check the result for
himself. The figure's for 1896 are taken
bodily from a table on page 818, the result
being worked out by Mulhall :
United States (Protectionist).
Population. Total Wealth. Wealth per
Inhabitant.
1840 17,063,000 (450) £782,000,000 (593) £46 (593)
1896 16,350,000,000 (818) 234 (818)
Increase per inhabitant (56 years) .. £lBB
Increase per inhabitant per annum, £3 7s. 2d.
France (Protectionist), according to Flaix’s estimate of
wealth in 1841.
Population. Total Wealth. Wealth per
Inhabitant.
1841 34,230,000 (445) £3,240,000,000 (591) £94
1896 9,690,000,000 (818) 252 (818)
Increase per inhabitant (55 years) .. £l5B
Increase per inhabitant per annum, £2 17s. sd.
France (Protectionist), according to Guyot’s estimate of
wealth in 1841.
Population. Total Wealth. Wealth per
Inhabitant.
1841 34,230,000 (445) £3,600,000,000 (591) £lO5
1896 9,690,000,000 (818) 252 (818)
Increase per inhabitant (55 years) .. £147
Increase per inhabitant per annum, £2 13s. sd.
Great Britain and Ireland (Freetrade).
Population. Total Wealth. Wealth per
Inhabitant.
1840 26,582,800 (444) £4,100,000,000 (589) £154
1896 11,806,000,000 (818) 302 (818)
Increase per inhabitant (56 years) .. £l4B
Increase per inhabitant per annum, £2 12s. lOd.
Mulhall supplies no wealth statistics for
Germany, except as regards a very few
recent years, so it is reluctantly omitted.
Also he gives no British population statistics
for 1840 (only for 1831 and' 1841). The 1840
population figures are arrived at by deduct-
ing one year's increase from the figures for
1841. But the eminent Freetrade authority
shows that in both France and the United
States the individual citizen is groiving rich
faster under Protection than is the individual
Briton under Freetrade. (The increase in
the total wealth of France would have been
much greater but for the loss of two rich
provinces in 1871.) This result is not what
one might have expected from so ardent a
Cobdenite, and evidently Mulhall should be
suppressed by Parliamentary enactment.
Mulhall (this time in the “Industries
and Wealth of Nations ”j gives some rather
ragged information about the total earnings
of various nations. The results are difficult
of comparison ; still they are interesting.
(Figures in brackets refer to the page of
“Industries and Wealth of Nations,” where
the matter quoted can be found) :
National National
earnings. earnings. Increase in
1843 1894 51 years.
France (129) £639,000,000 £1,199,000,000 £560,000,000
(Increase of £10,980,000 per annum.)
Increase in
1836 1895 59 years.
Britain (95) 600,000,000 1,423,000,000 823,000,000
(Increase of £13,950,000 per annum.)
Increase in
1840 1894 54 y«ars.
Germany (151) 389,000,000 1,284,000,000 895,000,000
(Increase of £16,570,000 per annum.)
Increase in
1870 1894 24 years.
U.S. (307) 1,323,000,000 3,116,000,000 1,793,000,000
(Increase over £74,000,000 per annum.)
The fact that the returns do not relate to
exactly similar years is a drawback. Another
drawback is that there are no population
returns for many of these years, so the exact
increase per head can’t be shown. Still, it
appears that the earnings of the people com-
posing what is now the German Empire
increased more in 54 years than the earnings
of the British people did in 59 years. And
the earnings of the United States increased
over twice as much in 24 years as those of
Britain did in 59 years. In the case of the
States the comparison starts at 1870 in order
to avoid the boom period of the Californian
gold discoveries, and the civil war, and the
Mexican and Texan annexations, and to deal
with a period of steady-going industry only.
* * * *
Also on page 129 of his “Industries and
Wealth of Nations ” Freetrader Mulhall
gives a curious set of figures as regards the
average earnings of every inhabitant of
Britain and every inhabitant of France in
1816, 1860, and 1894 respectively. By this
he elaborates the fact that in 1816 the Briton
averaged £6 a year more earnings than the
Frenchman. In 1860, when the Protectionist
era in Britain had not long ended, the Briton
earned £8 a year more than the Frenchman,
thus showing that while Britain was, in the
main, more intensely Protectionist than
France, the Britonkept getting further ahead.
And in 1894, when Britain had enjoyed 34
years of Freetrade, and France had had another
long spell of Protection, the Briton’s average
earnings were only £5 per annum more than
the Frenchman’s. The Protectionist French-
man kept dropping further and further
behind the' Protectionist Englishman, but he
seems to be fast overtaking the Freetrade
Englishman. No similar tables regarding
Germany and the United States appear to be
published.
* » * #
Then Freetrader Mulhall takes to pub-
lishing, things like this in his “ Dictionary of
Statistics ” (page where figures may be seen
quoted in brackets) :
Total Value of Manufactured and Agricultural
Products.
France.
1840. 1896 Increase in
56 years.
£ £ £
Manuf. .. 264,000,000(365) 596,000,000(765)
Agri. .. 269,000,000 (11) 416,000,000(615)
533,000,000 1,012,000,000 479,000,000
Britain.
Manuf. .. 387,000,000(365) 876,000,000(765)
Agrx. .. 218,000,000 (11) 230,000,000(615)
605,000,000 1,106,000,000 501,000,000
Germany.
Manuf. .. 150,000,000(365) 690,000,000(765)
Agri. .. 170,000,000 (11) 417,000,000(615)
320,000,000 1,107,000,000 787,000,000
United States.
Manuf. ... 96,000,000 (365) 1,980,000,000 (765)
Agri. .. 184,000,000 (11) 772,000,000(615)
280,000,000 2,752,900,000 2,472,000,000
Also the same weighty authority publishes
this statement of the amount of gold and
silver coin possessed by the one Freetrade
and the three Protectionist countries
(“Dictionary of Statistics,” page 777):
Great Britain..£l47,ooo,ooo I France .. . £263 000 000
Germany .. 183,400,000 | United States.. 271,100’,000
* * * *
As regards mining, the indefatigable but
rather weary Mulhall does not give facts
and information extending very far back,
but on page 773 of his “Dictionary of
Statistics he gives this comparison cover-
ing 20 years :
VALUE OF ALL MINERALS RAISED.
1876 1896 Increase in
20 VG£irs
France .. £15,000,000 .. £21,000,000 .. £6 000 000
Britain .. 58,000,000 .. 69,000,000 .. 11 OOO’OOO
Germany .. 15,000,000 .. 39,000,000 .. 24,000000
United States 70,000,000 .. 101,000,000 .. 31,000^00
* * • * ’
Then finally we come on this mass of in-
formation regarding trade. The commerce
of Freetrade Britain is the sheet-anchor of
the Freetrade logician, and in this matter
the mode of presenting British statis-
tics has given him a great advantage
over all comers. The average trade statis-
tics deal with external trade only, and
Britain reckons as external trade ' what
most of its rival states regard as internal.
Britain may be said to have started its
Empire with the three kingdoms of England,
Scotland, and Ireland. It, added to them
many other possessions, and the trade of the
three kingdoms with these other possessions
is called external trade, and therefore it
appears written large in the statistics. The
present German Empire extended from the
Kingdom of Prussia, and the U.S. extended
from the original 13 States, and the Russian
Empire from the petty Grand Duchy of
Muscovy; but old Muscovy’s trade with
Poland and Siberia, or New York’s with
Chicago, or Prussia’s with Bavaria are not
mentioned in the ordinary trade statistics at
all. On page 388 of Muuir all’s “ Industries
and Wealth, of Nations” can be found the
total trade, internal and external, of the
four great States, in 1896, as follows—and
by this method they are all put on the one
footing :
United States. .£3,311,000,000 Germany ..£1,501,000,000
Gt. Britain and France .. 1,324,000,000
Ireland .. 1,884,000,000
No statistics of previous years are given, so
comparison of relative progress is impossible.
Still, the fact that Britain is so far behind
the United States in the gross, and barely
keeps pace with it in the amount of trade per
inhabitant is hardly what Freetrade litera-
ture would lead one to expect.
* * * *
Britain is undoubtedly far ahead as the
great ship-owning country of the world, and
this fact is the great capital of the Freetrade
logician—or illogician. But the value of
shipping is included in the figures relating
to wealth, and the profits of it are included
among earnings, so in the above tables
Britain has received full credit for this item.
The general result seems to be that Britain
under Freetrade barely keeps pace with the
decadent Frenchman, while as regards the
two great Protectionist States of its own
branch of the human family—the two that
are largely of the same descent, and gifted
with the same energy, grit, and staying
power—it is being rapidly overhauled in
some respects and has been already over-
hauled in some others. The crucial
test is that which deals with the in-
crease of total wealth per inhabitant,
for that item covers everything ; and this
test shows that the enormous lead which
Britain gained in its Protectionist days is
being shortened every year under its later
Freetrade policy. The mere spreading of
Britain’s empire has nothing to do with the
case, though there is a vague, unreasoning
idea abroad that the Anglo-Saxon shoots
straight through the helpful influences of a
low tariff; the so-called Anglo-Saxon was
the same successful and enterprising fighter
and annexer long before he heard of Free-
trade that he is now. It is for the reasons
above shown that the war-cry of the Aus-
tralian Calico- Jimmy party, “ Look at Eng-
land and see the Glorious Results of Free-
trade,” does not appeal much to The Bulle-
tin. It has looked at England, while most
of those who use that war-whoop, and most
of those who are impressed by it, evidently
have not, or else have only looked with one
eye. And now that the cry of “Look at
England ” is evidently going to do service
once more in the Federal tariff cam-
paign, this paper asks every Australian
voter to look, to take a good, long,
intelligent look, and judge for him-
self, instead of taking things for granted.
Looking at England has done more than
anything else to make this paper Protec-
tionist. A Protectionist policy will indirectly
yield much revenue, which this country
requires badly. And the balance of evidence
appears to be in favour of the theory that it
will yield a great increase of prosperity at
the same time.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The 20 Municipalities of Adelaide.
Adelaide’s Town Clerk has issued a weighty
document re the urgent need for consolidating the
many municipalities of that Holy City. Adelaide,
in the matter of city government, is in the same
difficulty as Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Dune-
din, &c., only it has the disease in a rather worse
form than most of its neighbors. It has twenty
municipal governments, 20 mayors, sets of aider-
men, town-clerks, town-halls, and complete sets of
officials, and about as many separate debts—all
for 150,000 people. The results are just what they
are in the other Australian capitals. The munici-
pal bodies can’t put up 20 destructors—one each —-
for the incineration of their refuse, and they can’t
agree to combine and have one or two big ones,
and no one would let another use its destructor;
so there is none. The tramways are in private
hands, because the 20 councils can’t agree about
joint ownership. They can’t even have a joint
garbage-tip. A cheap, comprehensive system
of electric - lighting is impossible, for they
can’t agree to combine, and they can’t
buy 20 electric-lighting plants. They don’t
feel called upon, in fact, to agree about any-
thing, so nothing decent in the way of city
government is ever done in Adelaide —nor in any
of the other capitals. The municipal control of
an Australian city is a chronic interview of 20 or
more strange cats on a roof. Worst of all, the
only remedy that any Government seems to
suggest is that nothing shall be done until the 10
or 20, or 30 or 40 municipal cats, which have never
managed to really concur on the smallest subject,
shall come together and arrive at a workable plan
for combining under one city administration —
shall amicably abolish themselves, in fact. This
is just as promising as the idea that a burglar
should give himself a fair trial and then imprison
himself. And just here The Bulletin again
wastes a little good space in putting its own
scheme before the community, which is that some
intelligent Government in each province should
draft a measure to this effect:—
(1) That all the municipalities in and around its own
capital shall be embodied in one.
(2) Aldermen to 1 e elected every three years, all on one
day, by one-adult-one-vote. Aldermen to be paid—ex-
perience has shown that in Australia good men can no
more be got to manage a city gratis than to manage a
bank gratis. Mayor to be elected bv the people. State
audit of accounts. Auditor to have power to compel the
levying of a sufficient rate to cover the year’s estimated
expenditure, contribution to sinking fund, and previous
year’s deficit, if any. Loans to be raised for permanent
works only. Every loan to have sinking fund attached.
Council to have power to compulsorily resume property
for widening and straightening streets, opening new
streets, and other improvements. Also to have power to
establish or compulsorily purchase, own, and control
sewerage system, gas works, water works, electric-light-
ing works, tramways, baths, public laundries, parks,
recreation grounds, markets, abattoirs, charitable institu-
tions, savings banks, houses and shops, libraries, and
many other things.


(3) That the new city be divided at first into wards,
each ward being one of the existing municipalities.
Representation to go according to population. The
reason for this method of division appears hereafter.
(4) The new municipal government to take over, at a
price to be fixed by independent valuators, all the saleable
or profit-earning assets of the existing municipalities, and
pay for them by assuming a corresponding proportion of
the debt. Where there is no debt, or the value of the
asjets taken over is more than the debt, the ward (or
former municipality) to be paid the difference by a
reduction in its taxes, spread over, say, ten years.
(5) Each of the other wards to pay off the balance of
its debt (the part not covered by asssets handed over) by
an increase of taxes spread over ten years. The amount of
increase would vary according to the amount of the debt.
Thus in ten years everything would be placed on a
uniform footing ; the debts of the most burdened muni-
cipalities would be paid off ; the ones which had entered
into the union with more assets than debts would have
been paid the balance due to them for their assets ; none
of the solvent existing municipalities would have been
taxed for the benefit of their insolvent neighbours;
thereafter taxation would be uniform and there being no
need to retain the old boundaries (only required for pur-
poses of taxation) the city could be re-diviiied into wards
according to population only.
(6) To prevent the city politics being wholly of the local
pump order, the Council to consist of two sets of
aldermen equal in number—one class elected by the
separate wards, the other by the city voting as one con-
stituency.
And having drafted some such scheme as this, the
intelligent Government should submit it for
acceptance or rejection to the municipalities on
the one-adult-one-vote basis, and leave the exist-
ing Councils out of the question altogether. Their
consent isn’t to be expected in any case. The
whole scheme is based on the conviction that the
existing Councils are so many ignorant and stupid
excrescences and require to be abolished, and the
idea of waiting for reform till 10 or 20 or 30 or 40
Councils agree on the subject of their own in-
capacity is too slow. This paper can’t remember
when even two men—let alone 200 aldermen—
agreed on the subject of their incapacity unless
one was much larger than the other. Even then
it was, as a rule, only a case of the big man agree-
ing about the small one’s incapacity, and often he
only agreed till the small man found a policeman.
♦
No Exceeding’.
The Vic. wine-export trade is being steadily
wrecked by the local grower, who insists on
adulterating with salicylic acid—a foolish and
nefarious ingredient which most wine-growing
countries have prohibited. After much inex-
plicable hesitation, the M'Shiels Government
has at last introduced a Bill prohibiting this
adulteration under a penalty not exceeding £lO for
the first offence, £5O for further offences, or in
default not more than six months’ gaol. It is
tolerably safe to assume that that good old “ not
exceeding ” will make this law. a mere
joke, like most other such laws in Australia,
for the wine-growing J.P. will make the fine
Is. the first time and 2s. 6d., or less, afterwards.
In like manner, Australia tries to put down larri-
kinism by authorising the inferior courts to award
anything not exceeding six, or perhaps twelve,
months “hard,” and then the “beak” fines the
most murderous cases 40s. and merely brutal ones
ss. ; and Australia wonders why a law authorising
such heavy punishments (which are never enforced)
doesn’t suppress the evil. A minimum punish-
ment is quite as badly wanted as a maximum one.
If the law was only half as careful, to decree that
the adulterator should be fined not less than £5,
and the brutal rowdy get not less than three
months, as it is to make sure that they
will be fined not more than so much, or im-
prisoned not longer than so long, it might “get
there” occasionally. But it never gets there—
not with the adulterator and the larrikin, anyhow.
When it has tried hard for a long time to put
down some offence by a penalty not exceeding £lO
(which means 2s. 6d. in practice, unless the
J.P. happens to be a personal enemy), then it
is generally decided that further legal terrors are
wanted, and the penalty is raised to £2O (and it
still means 2s. 6d. in practice, unless the
J.P. is a personal enemy). Good old “not exceed-
ing ” is one great reason why so many laws have
all the backbone of a piece of soaked blotting-
paper.
The Coming’ Crawl.
England, as it has been well said, is a country
which goes on all-fours. The poor man cringes to
the rich ; shirt-sleeves bow down to sillc-hat; the
“ lower classes ” crawl before the “ upper ” —who
crawl to the titled—who crawl to the monarch.
Naturally enough, it is sought to graft this atti-
tude upon Australia ; and the foundation of the
Commonwealth is to be celebrated by a visit from
the Duke and Duchess of York—and a prime
crawl. The taxpayers’ money will be spent in
triumphal arches; the Fitzgibbons of the con-
tinent will surpass themselves in grovelling adula-
tion ; the political nonentities, tongue in cheek
and hat in hand, will make speeches of enthusias-
tic welcome ; and the crowd, which wishes to be
fooled, will be fooled to the bottom of its shallow
instincts. And why ? The Duke and Duchess of
York are two commonplace young people, abso-
lutely undistinguishable from the herd in looks,
or brains, or stature. They do nothing,
they know nothing, they are nothing. But
because the Duke of York is the grandson of the
reigning English monarch, it is the duty of a
“ loyal ” people to be dust beneath his ordinary
feet. Was there ever anything so insane as this
brand of loyalty ! When England was a compara-
tively savage State the monarch had his justifica-
tion. Harold and William of Normandy, who
fought for the English crown, were the best fighters
of their epoch. They ruled in virtue of their strong
brains and strong hands; and the respect
paid to them had some warrant of logical
necessity. But that a man should be respected
because he is the son of his father, who was
respected for being the son of his father, and
so on, there is no logical warrant whatever. The
Duke of York is a physical weakling, and intel-
lectual pigmy—that is to say, his natural endow-
ments are on a par with those of the ruck of
his “subjects”; and he looks every inch a
nonentity. He does not make his claim to
respect valid. In every ordinary walk of life
a man has to show cause why he should
be honoured before public honour befalls
him; but a monarch rests on his ancestry,
and gets his wages without earning them. Isn’t
it time the foolish superstition which transfers
credit from the high office to the mean occupant
was abandoned by people who call themselves
reasonable? Or even if it be admitted that
monarchy has its uses in England as a constitu-
tional stop-gap—a makeshift device till English-
men are able to govern themselves without an
ornamental Panjandrum at the top of the social
edifice; of what use is the monarch in Aus-
tralia? What do we gain from revering the
ancient fetish ? It does not help us —not even as a
stop-gap or makeshift. We gain nothing at all
from the Duke of York, and can gain nothing.
But when he visits Australia, foolish Australians
will crawl officially and privately—because their
fathers crawled, and their grandfathers ; and the
crawl-instinct is engrained in them. The Bulls-
tin can only hope to some day see this country
erect upon two legs in face of any monarch or
god or devil whatsoever.
-4,
The Battered Miner and His Wife.
“ Miner ” to The Bulletin on the above text: —
Mines Minister Fesan’s Miners’ Accident Relief Bill
now before N.S.W. Parliament is for one or two reasons
an improvement on the one it displaced. One reason is
that it refers to all miners and not only to coal-miners ;
another is that the fund, which is to be created, is to be
available for those temporarily as well as for those per-
manently disabled. Of course since to pay out of a fund
means first paying into it the Bill has had numerous
kicks aimed at it; but if it had been a little better
drafted a lot of these kicks would have been saved up for
something else. For instance, Mr. Fegan proposes that
each working miner shall pay £1 a year (9d. a fortnight—
it amounts to about the even sovereign), the owners 10s.
for each workman they employ, and the State as much as
owners. But wanting to say that payments shall be made
by the owners in quarterly instalments the Bill con-
trived to say that they shall pay 10s. quarterly
—£2 a year. And as" on the local mine com-
mittees and on the Central Administrative Board
owners and miners are to be about equally represented,
this tax of £2 as against the miners’ £1 naturally set the
owners kicking. Yet from the Minister’s explanations it
is clear that the owners, while paying 10s. a year, are to
have representation almost equal to the miners who pay
£1; so that if any kicking is to be done on that score the
miners should do it. The gist of the proposal is that 9d.
a fortnight shall be stopped from each man’s pay and
handed to a committee formed at each mine employing
over 20 men. There doesn’t seem to be any provision for
men working at smaller mines ; but seeing that such men
are occasionally thoughtless enough to have wives and
children and mothers, and as stones drop down little
shafts as well as big ones, there doesn’t appear to be any
good reason why, if one little mine can’t form a local com-
mittee, several little mines together should not do so.
These local committees are to consist of the manager, the
sub-manager, the Govt, inspector, and three miners’ repre-
sentatives. It would be more convenient if the owners were
permitted to nominate what officers they please ; in the
case of a big mine the manager will rarely give the time
and the accountant will always take his place. Also, the
Govt, nominee might be left open—it will not always be
convenient for the inspector to act. There is not a
mining inspector within a 60 hours’ journey of White
Cliffs, for example, though five or six hundred men are
usually employed in the claims there. The owners are
not to pay into these local funds, but into a central fund,
which is to be managed by a board representing the three
sets of contributors—a very good idea, because this cen-
tral body will not mind bringing a long-winded co. to see
the error of its delays. The local committees are to pay
out of the local funds as far as the funds will go ; for the
rest they are to draw on the central fund. The payments
are, roughly, Bs. a week to a widow while unmarried or
to the guardian of a victim’s motherless children,
and 2s. 6d. to each child under 14; or if the
victim was unmarried Bs. to the mother “ if
she was at the time of his death dependent on
the deceased for her support ” ; or in certain circum-
stances the victim’s sisters or their children may get the
allowances. Also £l2 is allowed for the funeral. If a
man is disabled only, he is to get 15s. a week. The pay-
ments are well enough as far as they go ; but if a man
pays into the fund should he not be absolutely entitled to
benefits from it ? If an unmarried miner is killed and it is
shown that he was not supporting his mother or sisters,
nobody receives any allowances. Even if he ought to
have been supporting somebody, even if he has been
grossly neglecting his duty, the payments cannot be
made. He may have a crippled father aged 89 ; but if he
has not been doing the old man justice the fund won’t do
him justice either. The schedule wants overhauling.
With this done and the bill further licked into saying
what the Minister says he meant to say, it will be a first-
rate start on a big and intensely practical social reform.
4
A Decorated Gentleman on Reciprocity.
The Australian public will note with some in-
terest that William Patrick Manning, knight,
of N.S.W., has been giving away their property
in London in a rather lavish manner, and arrang-
ing one-sided reciprocity treaties, _ and otherwise
fixing things up. The following is from an in-
terview which Mr. Manning poured out on the
bosom of St. James’ Gazette :
I have always felt that, apart from sentiment, in return
for what the colonies received from the home country in
the way of financial assistance, protection from outside
interference, and in many other ways, they should at
least give a quid pro quo —say in the direction of a lesser
tariff than that which is imposed on the imports from
foreign countries. The matter has not been publicly re-
ferred to in Australia, but I imagine that the proposition
has only to be stated to find acceptance.
Now, if Mr. Manning feels that he owes Britain
a debt of gratitude for anything (his knighthood,
possibly), it is only honest that he should pay it—
at his own expense. Biit as regards Australia in
general the case isn’t clear. To start with the
alleged “financial assistance,” this country has
paid interest, very high interest in many cases,
for all the assistance it has received. It is still pay-
ing 5 and even 6 per cent, on some of its old public
loans, and Britain has a great deal more cause to
be grateful for the interest than Australia has for
the principal. As regards private borrowings, this
country, despite some recent losses, has
been a mine of gold to the British investor. In
the grand old early days he often got over 30 per
cent, for the coin he sent out here ; the case of the
shareholders of the Union Bank is one in point.
In the matter of defence, Britain has never yet
had to spend anything for the protection of Aus-
tralia for it has never been attacked. This country
has already spent a little money helping in purely
British wars, but Britain hasn’t spent a copper
on Australian wars for there have been none; up
to recently we have been sensible enough to stick
to our own business and keep a civil tongue in our
head. And so far as sentiment goes, that holds
good either way. If the Anglo-Saxon in Australia
should have a sentimental attachment for the ditto
in England, then the latter should have an equally
strong sentimental attachment for the Anglo-
Saxon in Australia. They are both descended
from the same old tribe of German marauders. So
this paper holds that reciprocity treaties are a
matter of pure business, and should be treated as
such. At present Australia is mostly Protection-
ist, for purely selfish reasons; it reckons that
Protection pays best. Britain is mostly Freetrade
for purely selfish reasons; it reckons that Free-
trade pays best. Australia admits British and
foreign goods on the same basis, and Britain ad-
mits Australian and foreign goodson thesame basis.
Each has to struggle for a foothold in the other’s
markets on exactly the same terms as the French-
man, German, American, Russian, Chinaman,
African, Kanaka, and other outsiders, and no
favour is shown on either side. There is no reason
that this paper is aware of why Australia should
not give a preference to Britain, provided Britain
will respond—that also would be pure business. If
this country admits British goods at, say, 5 per
cent, less duty than those of other countries, then
the reasonable course is for Britain to return the
compliment. Where Britain (with a view purely
to what she regards as her own interests) charges
no duty at present, then the obvious solution of the
difficulty is for that country to put 5 per cent, duty
on foreign goods. Whether it is a case of charging
5 per cent, less on Australian goods or 5 per
cent, more on non-Australian goods as a matter
of indifference; the result is the same. But for
any gentleman, in a burst of gratitude for his
knightly decoration, to assure Britain that Aus-
tralia is quite ready to make a reciprocity treaty
wherein all the reciprocity will be on one side is
absurd. It may be that Mr. Manning ought to
go out of his way to help British trade, out of
gratitude for his decoration, but there is no
evidence that Australia should do so out of grati-
tude for Mr. Manning’s decoration. If all Aus-
tralia had been knighted the situation would have
been different. The size of the difference would
depend on the value which this country put on
the gewgaw.
♦ 7
The long delay in the presentation of N.S.W.’s
financial statement suggests that Premier Lyne
is in a desperately tight place. And so he is.
Last year, so far as is known, ends barely met,
even without the war expenditure ; it would have
been a wonder if they had, for the Plague was a
big extra, and ends haven’t really met in N.S.W.
for many a day with no Plague. This financial
year the war expenditure is still going on ;
the Federal expenditure begins in January,
which is another extra, though not a large
one; the finance committee has recom-
mended increasing the annual payment towards
the deficit from £150,000 to £400,000 (£250,000
extra), and Lyne promised to carry out its recom-
mendations ; he has also promised to establish an
Old Age Pension system; he is disinclined
to save any part of the Federal expenditure
by cutting down the local Assembly one-half
—it would take a strong man to do it, and
Lyne is only a long man; any large in-
crease of direct taxation would bring down a yell
of execration, and a big increase of customs
duties would do likewise. And even if new duties
were imposed now they could only be collected for
nine months of the year at the outside. A
financial genius would revel in such a situation;
it is only by having difficulties to surmount that a
big man can gain credit for surmounting them.
But Lyne doesn’t revel worth a cent. He never
revelled in all his life. Probably he will meet the
difficulty better than Reid, but he can’t say the
funny things about it that Reid would. Reid, so
to speak, drew attention from his deficits by turn-
ing two somersaults and shouting “ Here we are
again ! ” Lyne’s solemnity makes 2d. surplus
look like a deficiency of a shilling.
♦
Bishop Webber and sundry other Brisbane
notables are very anxious that Chief-Justice
Griffith should be allowed to enter the arena of
Federal politics—with intent to become the Fed-
eral Premier. Of course, it is assumed, that the
other States can have no possible objection. But,
inasmuch as that worthy Judge is not ripe for a
pension for the next six years, a little scheme is
hatching to bring in a bill to shorten_ that
period and let Griffith have his pension a
little earlier. This scheme has the support,
naturally, of the Brisbane Courier, which
has its own reasons for wishing to see
Attorney-General Rutledge step into the Chief -
Justiceship. Without wishing to deprecate Grif-
fith’s undoubted services to the Federal Cause, it
is to be hoped, in the interests of Democracy, that
he remains outside the Federal Parliament. At
present he is a reactionary of the most dangerous
type —inspired, apparently, by a bitter hatred of
the progressive movement. In any case, the his-
tory of Queensland in particular has shown
the inadvisability of confounding the legisla-
tive and judicial functions. It is not to the
interests of any country that men should be
hopping from the Leg. Assembly to the judicial
bench, and from the judicial bench back into Par-
liament again. The essence of Parliamentary life
is partisanship; the essence of the judicial func-
tion should he impartiality. How a man is going
to be a pure partisan one year and a perfectly pure
and impartial judge the next year, is a problem
that will pass most poor wits to fathom. They
may manage it in Bananaland for in Bananaland
politics all things are possible.
♦
♦The Albert River (Q.) Tramway Bill presents
some delightful features. Aforesaid Bill provides
for the construction of 120 miles of line from the
Albert River to Lilydale, via Burketown. The
co. gets the freehold of the land necessary for the
line and the buildings, and obtains, moreover, a
concession of 2000 acres of mineral lands free from
all labor conditions for the next 50 years.
Half of, this area may be selected at any
time during the next half-century, either
in block or in scattered sections anywhere
within 40 miles of the railway. Any minerals
raised are to be exempt from all such
preposterous impositions as royalties and so forth.
Furthermore, so that the co. may have some poor
recompense for its toil and trouble in grabbing the
above-mentioned 2000 acres of mineral lands, it is
to be allowed to charge 50 per cent, more than
the present rates ruling on N.Q. Govt, lines.
This, as The Bulletin has already pointed out,
is the same burden on the country as if the State
built the line with money borrowed at per cent.
In the next 20 years there will probably be enor-
mous reductions in the rates of Govt, railways
in the North, but the Albert River Tramway
Co. is to go on its joyous way unaffected
by little trifles of that kind. In case
there be any disputes with settlers concerning
railway rates and so forth, the Bill kindly provides
that there shall be no remedy save in the Supreme
Court —a provision which will admirably suit such
of the Albert River settlers as may be millionaires.
The surface rights of the country taken up by the
syndicate are also the property of that philan-
thropic body, wherefore any miners settling
thereon will be simply tenants of the co. There
is, to crown all, a sweet little provision, by which
the co. does not need to put a pick in the ground
for the next six years. And it is alleged that this
measure was brought in to promote a speedy
settlement of the wilds of North Queensland !!
N.S.W.’s ex-Premier Reid went over to Mel
bourne recently and delivered a soul-stirring
address on the blessings and advantages of Free-
trade. But he never explained why he crawled
down so abjectly when it came to applying his
own policy to his own province. Reid had a
glorious chance and threw it away. He preached
Freetrade, and he retained protective duties on
sugar, glucose, molasses, treacle, biscuits, confec-
tionery, fruits and jams. He kept up the old Pro-
tection of 3d. and 6d. per gallon on beer, which is
why beer has always flourished in N.S.W. (There
is no Protection on spirits, so there isn’t a single dis-
tillery in the province.) Alsohe retained the protec-
tive duty on tobacco, cigars, and cigarettes (cigars
and cigarettes are protected in N.S.W. to the
enormous extent of 3s. Gd. per lb., the duty on the
imported article being 6s. and the local one only
half-a-crown). He left very heavy Protection on the
wine industry. He protected the agricultural
industry to an enormous extent by charging higher
railway rates on the imported article. George
Reid says he believes with all his soul that Free-
trade is a policy which enriches the country.
That leaves two alternatives; either he isn’t tell-
ing the truth, or while he was in power he was a
rascal who tried, by leaving a certain num-
ber of injurious Protective duties in force, to
injure the country which trusted him and paid
him his salary.
A South Australian writes
When the labor-unions broke down so badly during
their first struggle with organised employers, 10 years
ago, and when “ Socialism in our time ” seemed to thou-
sands the only cure for the laborers’ wrongs, South Aus-
tralia established 13 village settlements, all more or less
communistic—mostly more. Now a Royal Commission
which has been inquiring into them finds six of them
dead, and the other seven (containing 95 adult males)
have cost the country, in advances in excess of repay-
ments, the tidy sum of £76,100. The unpaid advances to
the abandoned settlements totalled £19,500. Nor have
the settlements left off sucking yet, though the “ sub-
sistance ” allowances are now very small; yet, if they
are withdrawn altogether, it seems likely that there will
be some more collapses. The Commission —it included
two Labor-members and Premier Holder— recommends,
in accordance with the general wish of the settlers, that
the communistic or co-operative basis should be further
amended ; “ the general admission is that ‘ human nature
is not good enough ’ to work on such a plan, and the de-
sire is for a larger measure of individualism.” The ques-
tion, “ Who is to wash-up ? ” was fatal, as usual.
A couple of Carlton (Melb.) honorariums
reached such a giddy height of out-
rageousness last week that even Victoria
noticed something unusual about their be-
haviour. Catherine Hughes was to be charged
before them with assault, and had been allegedly
summoned, but when the case was called there
was no Catherine. It transpired that the lady
was at that moment serving a sentence of seven
days for another offence, and so couldn’t appear ;
but the awful justices weren’t going to let a little
thing like that stand in their way. The accused
wasn’t on view, nor was she represented by a
lawyer or other agent, but the pair of
J.P.’s heard the prosecution’s evidence
and promptly gave the absent Kate, another
two months’ hard. The Melb. dailies re-
mark gently that the Solicitor-General should
take steps to have the wholly-illegal proceedings
annulled, but the necessity for having the two
incredible J’sP. annulled is even more urgent.
Also, is Carlton so hard-pushed for magistrates
that it is necessary to keep a couple of specimens
like these on the roll? Truly the Carlton J.P.
is the champion prize exhibit of Victoria, and for
outrageous absurdity and shameless injustice he
overlies every other created thing.
♦
The Queensland Full Court has come to a decision
which, if fully acted upon, will be a ruinous knock
to some branches of business. The plaintiff in the
case sold certain mining shares and gave notice to '
the company to accept no more calls in his name.
The object of this intimation was, of course, to
make it certain that the new buyer must register '
himself and make himself liable for calls, and that
if he failed to do so, the shares would be forfeited
and sold. The co. didn’t act on the instructions,
and the buyer didn’t register himself. The buyer
(who may be called Smith to save pronouns) left
the shares standing in the name of the former
holder (who may be alluded to as Jones to save
circumlocution). Of course if the co. had begun -
to declare dividends at any time it is safe to as-
sume that Smith would have registered himself
Eromptly and taken the dividends, but till then
mith lay low. He paid calls in J ones’s name
till he became convinced that there were never
going to be any dividends. Then he stopped
pacing, and left Jones liable for calls on shares
which he didn’t own. And while Jones was
liable for calls hq still had the pleasing knowledge
that, should the mine take a change for the better,
Smith would turn up and take the dividends.
The Full Court has decided that this state of
things is quite legal, and that Jones must pay
Smith’s calls until Smith chooses to relieve him
of further liability by registering himself as the
owner. There is apparently no means by which
Jones can compel Smith to register, and the co.
is not bound to take any notice of Jones’s
intimation that he sold the shares to Smith.
Under these conditions it seems that when a man
sells shares in Queensland he may be afterwards
ruined by an unlimited liability for calls on the
other man’s property, and the only remedy
appears to be never to own shares in Queensland
under any conditions whatever.
4
This epistle gets into print mainly because of its
ingenuous thankfulness that Wesleyans don’t
drink :
Editor Bulletin.— Nobody feels really “insulted” by
Archbishop Redwood’s assertion that “ the founders of
their particular brand of belief were mostly hogs.” Pro-
testantism, I take it, believes in Protestantism only, and
not in the man who founded it. You speak of Protes-
tantism as “ a particular brand of belief,” but considering
that a majority of the “ believers” scoff at the saints of
the sects, such as Wesley and Calvin, it is hardly fair to
brand them all alike. The one point of sympathy among
Protestants is their protest against what they consider
the obvious absurdities of R.C. bigotry and super-
stition. On all other points of kerristian faith the
sects have a little contempt—mostly good-humoured
contempt—for one another. They can’t insult one
another as regards their respective points of difference
and as for what any R.C. may say about Martin Luther
and Co.—why, they refuse to take it seriously. A Catho-
lic can’t insult a Protestant’s religion. It is too strong in
the belief in its own comparative reasonableness to resent
the shrieks of angry bigotry. But a Catholic’s, an Irish
Catholic’s, religion is eternally looking for insults, it
seems to me. The R.C. trails his precious Faith along the
ground and waits for a dhirty Protestant to tread on the
tail of it. I always think of a devout Catholic as a man
who starts to hate all Protestants when he has got half-a-
dozen whiskies in him. His religion then becomes a
public nuisance. Probably the religion of the bigoted
Wesleyan would be even more of a nuisance, if he inflamed
it with liquor. But he doesn’t, thank Heaven! I’ve
never heard a person proclaiming his belief in the holiness
of Wesley, say, at an hotel bar ; but I’ve heard man3 r
drunken Catholics defying the company in general to
speak disrespectfully of the Pope.
■
“ Layman ” on death-under-chloroform:
More than 50 years have elapsed since chloroform first
came into general use, and doctors have not yet learned
to administer it to patients with safety. The number of
deaths under the anaesthetic has greatly increased during
the last few years in Australia. The other day an appar-
ently healthy young lady succumbed to chloroform in a
dentist’s chair in Melbourne, making the third local misad-
venture of the kind during the last 12 months, without
counting the too frequent occurrence of deaths from the
drug in the hospitals and at the hands of general practi-
tioners. The fatal results do not often arise from heart-
failure, or any diseased condition of the individuals
operated upon, but from suffocation pure and
simple. If a gallon of water is poured steadily
down a man’s throat in a gentle stream, he
dies because he does not get time to breathe. With
chloroform, if the physician administering it does not
constantly watch the pulse and respiration, and see that
there is plenty of time for the alternate inhalation of air
and chloroform, suffocation must speedily follow. In the
hospitals it often happens that the person entrusted with
the administration of the drug is a young medico who is
too much interested in watching the operation to pro-
perly attend to his duty, and lives are thus sacrificed. It
is imperative that a trained anesthetist shall be em-
ployed on all occasions, the utmost care and watchfulness
being observed ; and there is an added danger in giving
the anesthetic to persons sitting in a chair, a position in
which respiration is less easily performed than in the
recumbent one. It will be nothing short of a calamity’ if
the most beneficent discovery of the century is dis-
credited, and sufferers are thrown back on the horrors of
the pre-anesthetic days. Pepys of the Diary celebrated
by an annual banquet to the end of his long life what he
justly considered his marvellous survival of an operation
for stone with nothing but a few doses of brandy to alle-
viate the pain. And Nelson never went into action after
his arm was cut off without ordering the ship’s carpenter
to boil the surgeon’s instruments, so great was his terror
of the coldness of the steel.


BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 George Street,
59 Queen Street,
SYONEY;
BRISBANE ;
On Your Holidays
USE A
PREMO CAMERA
Your Outfit is not complete without it.
PRICE 25/ . TO £2O
Illustrated Catalogues
Post Free.
Note Our Addresses :
A
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
65 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
The Oldest and Largest, International Life Company.
Has 40,000 more Policy-holders than the next Largest Company, and more Insurance in torce.
Chief Office —
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PURVES,
General Manager, Dept, of Australasia.
Sulphide Corporation
** LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Si. uated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead,
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Tarr/e Parcels or
ller/ulyr Supplies under Contract.
M/'.
Full Partial}tftrs and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A. E. SAVAGE,
Managkr.
CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
H ELI DO N SPA WATER,
A NATURAL
* ; n* f a i wp ‘ t $ wmm&m
ft
w,
*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Fedora.”
Royal “ New Babylon.”
Palace “What Happened to Jones ” and
“An Empty Stocking.”
Criterion “The Penalty of Crime.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Centenary Hall “Banjo” Paterson’s War Lec-
tures.
Redfern Fitzgeralds’Circus.
Queen’s Hall Museum of Anatomy.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Only Way.”
Theatre Royal “A Trip to Chicago.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Sydney rolled up very considerably to the
picturesque little Centenary Hall last Friday
night, when the dark, saturnine face of its “Banjo”
gazed down from an unusually high altitude of
platform. That returned pen-warrior described
the Transvaal scrap from its every-day bread-
and-sausage aspect, and he really succeeds in
getting the every-day aspect of the war, while
some of the others merely make a heroic
attempt to show its poetry and glory. “ Banjo ”
manages to bring us into close sympathy with the
common daily camp life, and the men who go
into battle, not shouting the battle-cry of their
fathers, but with hens and ducks slung over
their saddles, so that they may be sure of a good
feed when the fight is over. He likewise gives
a hit at the excited Australian who couldn't be
bothered with the routine, and had to be gently
reasoned out of his delusion that going to war
meant merely fighting. “ Banjo ”is not as good
a lecturer as writer, and he suffers from nervous-
ness most of the time, but he does not seem to
suffer from swelled head. He makes a strong im-
pression that whatever he says is absolute fact,
and that he could only tell a lie by trying very
hard indeed. He is likewise under no delusion
regarding the glory of war. He looks on this
prosaic business as brightened, not by sublime
thoughts of Queen and country, but by the joke
you have with the Tommy next you when another
Tommy conveniently finds that his horse is
lame, so that he may fall back and become a
“ waggon warrior ” at the rear, where the bullets
are thinnest and the Boer cumbereth not the
kopje. The limelight pictures are rather faint, but
genuine. As the
lecturer himself
pointed out, the
people repre-
sented are not
gazing at the
camera, but
doing their
work. Apropos
of which, “Ban-
jo” gave a jibe
or two at several
lying cinemato-
graphe shows we
all know of, and
explained that
modern battle
is not one man
standing in one
comer of the
field waving a
flag, and another
man running
about on a horse
making a target
of himself, with
onearm upraised
to give the bul-
lets still another
chance. It is
merely a num-
ber of people lying flat on the ground, and
continuing to lie flat on the ground for a good
time. In fact, if the cinematographe is to describe
a Transvaal battle correctly all it needs to do is to
bring on the screen a piece of veldt and let it re-
main there for half an hour or so, while a helmet
bobbing up now and then will show that the fight
is still raging !
** * *
The crazy-quilt drama of “ New Babylon ’
unfolded 12 tableaux at Sydney Royal on Saturday
night, and did it in three hours and a decimal.
It isn’t easy to remember any drama of the size
with less consecutive story in it. There are shreds
and scraps of tale, kept apart by cattle and horse-
races and irrelevant auction sales of small ponies
with long tails, and the casual herb of narrative is
found growing sparsely in spots with miles of
picture and panorama in between. There is a
masterly collision in mid-Atlantic, and a large,
very gorgeous and brilliantly-lighted ship heaving
on a green and worried-looking sea. There are
two girls, one good and the other base and horrid,
but so much alike that the audience takes them
for the same girl—especially as Miss Frances Ross
plays both of them —and becomes tangled in its
mind like the legs of the fretful octopus. Both
girls are incomprehensible. One of them is
the adopted daughter of the old man who
comes from nowhere in particular, and either
she or the other one is also the daughter
of the old woman who demands gin, and
sleeps on doorsteps, and whose bonnet looks
as if the cat dwelt in it. And the old woman
either was or wasn’t married to the man who came
from nowhere ; and if she was, then his second
marriage was illegal and his other daughter is
illegitimate, and if she wasn’t, what is all the row
about ? And the second girl, if she really is the
second girl and not the first girl over again, is the
siren who has ruined Baker on the turf, and
Baker is engaged both to her and to the girl who
is illegitimate if the old woman who sleeps on
doorsteps has told the truth ; and the second girl
seems to be also in some way or other involved
with Norman, who is really married to the first
girl; at least, it being quite impossible to sort out
the girls, tilings look like this, but may be other-
wise. Anyhow, the £12,000 isn’t in the old man’s
safe when Norman and his two friends break into
it. And honest John Randall has just called the
old man bad names and left by the back door, re
some misunderstanding about the girls, when dis-
honest John Ramirez comes in by the other
back door and welts the ancient from behind,
and takes the £12,000 out of his insensible and
prostrate pocket. So he naturally thinks it was
John Randall who fractured him from behind, and
puts the accusation down on paper before he falls
down partly dead, but nothing Being legible after
the “Ra” of Randall the law, by an unusually
correct mistake, takes Ramirez instead. This is
the one coherent fact in the 16 acts. After that,
the drama gives up trying to explain who is who,
and its latter end is like unto an illustrated maniac
with ancient Chaldaean inscriptions in his hair.
* * • *
Some foolish and misguided person has
been trying to bring “New Babylon” up to date,
with sad and boshy dialogue about the Chinese
war, the brotherhood of the U.S. and England,
and the like. A very large number of people
are washed back and forward in this drama, like
old bell-toppers on a rising tide, but there is so
much horse-race and cattle-show and ship and
floral fete that no one has a chance to be much
more than a lay figure. A very magnificent ballet
is a most commendable member of the co. Misses
Frances Ross and Harrie Ireland are two fine pic-
torial effects. Baker emerges from the ruck of
horse, cow and dance for about 15 minutes in all.
Norman, Bland Holt and Arthur Styan appear
for a trifle longer, and Charles Brown erupts
occasionally. The effect is satisfactory, so far as
it goes, but scrappy. Max Maxwell's Chinaman
leaves a more definite recollection behind him than
anyone else.
#* * m
A one-woek's revival of the “ Gondoliers ”
is in progress at Her Majesty’s—the very tem-
porary “Pinafore” having come and gone, like a
THE BEAR AND DOG ACT FROM HAGEN BECK'S MENAGERIE,
HAMBURG.
Dumb artists engaged for Fitzgerald Bros'. Circus; they arrive in Australia
early next year.
soft-footed marauder of the night, in the interval
of six days during which this paper rests from its
labors at elevating the public intelligence. “ Gon-
doliers -” and the opera co. depart together on
Friday night, much regretted by the public if the
public knows what is good for it—which, judging
by the kind of beer it drinks, it probably doesn’t,
The present version of the story of the two kings
who slept in the attic is a very good one, on the
whole. The kings’ two best girls are represented
by Misses Carrie Moore and Maud Chetwynd.
The former does her part in her usual bright and
capable fashion; whether Miss M. is a sunbeam
the stage this paper knoweth not, the lady
not having the advantage of its personal
acquaintance, but that she is one on the
boards is beyond question. And the new lady
1S » In m any respects, built after the same
pattern. Miss Chetwynd hasnt had a very
large show yet, and it is too soon to lay down a
weighty judgment concerning her, but the
unfinished opinion now on hand is favorable,
Brownlow and Kenmngham are the two kings,
Brownlow being the monarch who dances more
than Kenmngham, and Kenmngham the monarch
who doesn t dance so much as Brownlow ; Laun
makes a short stout grand Inquisitor, and his old
part of the duke (limited) is handed over to Hugh
Ward. If there is any falling away in these four
characters, the person who falls is Hugh Ward
but even he doesnt drop fan Miss Cecil
Englehart rises to the part of Casilda wherein
Florence Young used to shine of yore, and does it
well; and Bathurst s Luiz calls for no loud com-
plaint. _ As for the duchess of Miss Jennie Opie
this writer hasn t made up his mind, and the lady
ma y consider herself committed for trial,
' v _, ’ , „ * *
On Saturday Nance O Neil was to return
to play Parthenia at Her Majesty’s, but for some
reason not specified that Greek lady _ with the
flowing hair is postponed, and “ Fedora is to be
the opening show.
** * *
“ Jones ” at Sydney Palace is going
successfully in his fifth or sixth or seventh week,
and as business is still robust enough to pass The
A.M.P. Society’s medical examination without
difficulty, he will probably last some time longer.
*# * *
Lizzie, the elephant, still enacts the
luncheon-eating alderman at Fitzgerald’s Circus,
and also wears for a short time the monkey beard
of a blameful Kruger. If this beard were kept on
when the British Lion takes his famous ride on
her back supported by the Empire’s Flag, the
item would then have a beautiful symbolical
interest. This idea is presented to the proprietors
absolutely gratis. Rosie Aquinaldo is contorting
even more wonderfully than at first, and suggests
another idea —that she and Ferry of the Tivoli
should have a contorting match together, to prove
beyond doubt which stands highest for absolute
bonelessness. The items which take place near
the ceiling happen as before.
** * #
Changes are not very numerous at Sydney
Tivoli this week. Albert Whelan, the new per-
former, gives clever imitations of several actors
that the average theatre-goer knows and several
that he doesn’t. Miss Billie Barlow is in her last
nights. When Billie is gone the audience will be
left still wondering what she would do if the fat
man she is always asking for were really passed
over to her one evening. The Haytors are giving
the “Original Burlesque Cinematograph.” It is
rather a good burlesque in its way.
*# * *
“Constance Clyde” gives “Drink” a
send-off: —
“ Drink ” has been bowdlerised so completely at Sydney
Criterion that there now isn't adequate explanation for
the things that happen. Those are principally the hus-
bands that happen to Lily Dainpier. That lady’s melan-
choly tones are for once heard to advantage in a part
wherein she seems to spend the most of her life in
going through a relay of tight husbands. “ Drink ”is the
sad story of a nice girl who tried to get a sober partner,
and the play ends without any dead certainty that she
has got one at last. Her. first is a gentlemanly journey-
man hatter, whose work consists in looking for work at
12 o’clock at night when it can’t be found, and then retir-
ing to an apartment where the chest of drawers, which
won’t open, is realistic, and the bed, which is oniy wide
enough for one, isn’t. When Husband No. 1 dies
outside the scenes in the vague fashion which,
in the stage, means an early resurrection, Lily Dainpier
mmediately espouses a working man who is not gentle-
manly and who has signed the pledge, and she hopes
thereby to gain peace. The fact that husband No. 1
turns up on her No. 2 wedding day and wants her back
that he may stay away from her as before does not get on
Miss Dampier’s nerves at all, for the next act finds her
still married to No. 2, and an offspring on the scene, and
no wail about her lost honor at all. The only wail she
wails is re the fact that husband No. 2 got drunk on the
wedding-day owing to the fact that, having kept away
from drink for some time, what he does take now is all
the more inclined to go to his head. All the other men
who haven’t taken the pledge remain quite sober, though
they have presumably taken just as much as he did. This
goes on throughout the play. Hubby No. 2is the only per-
son who sees rats or wanders among fruit-laden branches
that afterwards turn into slimy snakes with horned heads,
all because he signed the pledge. Having taken to drink
once more through the effects of falling off a scaffold,
husband No. 2 dies in a chair in the same old blue blouse
which he has worn throughout the eight years or so of
the play, and Lily, after falling in the snow and saying
she wants to be with the angels, promptly gets up again
when another fellow comes along and requests to be No. 3.
As this man is different from husband No 2, and likewise
different from husband No. 1, there is some possibility
that he may pull through the ordeal of being married to
Lily without succumbing to the Curse; but the fact that
he is the Champion Abstinence Man of the district is a
good deal against it.
* * * *
To which it may be added, by way of P.S.,
that “Macbeth” will be played at the Cri. on
Friday, and “The Penalty of Crime” starts on
Saturday. The latter is “for the first time in
Australia.” Pity is that the drama which appears
for the first time in Australia is often so like the
one which ought to have appeared there for the last
time that its newness makes no difference.
*# * *
The man who runs the exhibition of our
best girl’s skeleton and other human organisms,
vitals and jim-jams, at the Queen’s Hall (Sydney),
reports that his show will move on in a few weeks
to illuminate the intellect of other parts. Mean-
while, admission is reduced to Is., and the model
of our best girl is unscrewed and lectured on every
night.
** * *
Madame Adelina De Lara, whose portrait
appears in this issue, is a pianiste of much dis-
tinction. Of Spanish extraction, the lady was,
however, bom in England, and received her musi-
cal education in Germany, Italy, and various
Continental centres. At the age of six the artiste
appeared as a prodigy on the concert-platform,
and the promise exhibited as a child nas been
thoroughly fulfilled. Madame De Lara is the
wife of Mr. Thomas Kingston, the well-known
English actor, now touring Australia with the
Nance O’Neil co., and has taken advantage of her
husband’s sojourn in Australia to pay us a visit.
Her first concert will be given at Sydney Cen-
tenary Hall, on Tuesday next, Oct. 2.
*# * *
The invincible brogue of J. F. Sheridan
has scored again at Melbourne Royal, and “A
Trip to Chicago ” is proceeding until further
notice. Nine long years, it seems, have passed
over the Widow’s auburn wig since she first
tripped to the place where the Exhibition was in
the character of Bridget O’Brien Esq., with
Gracie Whiteford as Norah O’Bre-on, her darter.
Her present alias is Johanna Murphy, and her
spinster offspring is known as Lulu. The inci-
dental mining boodler, and also the military person
whose leg went wrong at Balaclava, are chasing
the relict of O’Brien under their original names;
otherwise the new bill differs freely from the
document of May ’9l, when Williamson, Garner
and Co. figured at the head of it. A number of
small details have been added to the narrative,
and Johanna Murphy’s millinery is not what
it used to be. The Bulletin makes this
assertion with a profound forgetfulness of
Bridget’s previous splendor, but it looks a safe
thing to say, because her garments change their
fashion and grow old, whilst Sheridan simply
renews himself at intervals, like Parliament. At
10 o’clock “A Trip to Chicago” takes the form
of a garden-party by moonlight, and then all the
members of the co. who have been running a
farcical comedy give a mild series of “turns,”
assisted by some frivolous lady visitors, who dance
a hornpipe. The garden and the Heavens above
are the work of the young man (Reg. Robbins)
who fled from his awful mother-in-law and got
drunk in the first act, and for the sake of his
clever stage picture an uncomplimentary notice
of that young man’s acting is cancelled herewith.
** * *
The Brotherhood of Gethsemane were to
break up their monkery at Her Majesty’s (Melb.)
on Tuesday of this week, from which it appears
that the holy man who went to Glory by night
was not quite so popular as he promised to be.
An interesting revival of “ Tess ” has possession
of the floor to-night (Thursday) and to-morrow, if
the advt. kept his word. “Tess,” with a new,
well-balanced co., and Cecil Ward as the truant
Angel, ought to be fully equal to business require-
ments. “The Only Way” makes a first Melb.
appearance on Saturday (29th), but the unselfish
bachelor of last century will lay down his tired
life for six nights only. After that a “Royal
Divorce” revival, and then a brief closing of the
theatre for furt her alterations.
** » *
At the Bijou things are much the same as
before, plus the announcement that Billie Barlow
will add her engaging smile to the programme on
Saturday. Meanwhile, Emmonds and Emerson
and the other Emmonds are the newest arrivals,
and public opinion seems favorably disposed to-
wards those frivolous strangers. Also the eye of the
populace rivets itself every evening upon the bio-
graph picture of the fond young mother who
wears a pair of nice clean stockings under her
nightgown, and gets saved from a bogus conflagra-
tion by a gallant impostor in a helmet. The pic-
ture, apart from its nightgown interest, is gene-
rally admired for its artless stage management
and simple faith in the credulity of man.
** * *
Particulars are to hand of George Mus-
grove’s new opera co., which makes a first appear-
ance at Melb. Princess’s (Oct. 13th) in “II Trova-
tore ”or “ Faust.” The 12 principal singers in-
clude the famous Salvi and another tenor of
“star” rank, three young sopranos, each with
prima-donna successes to her name, two first-class
contraltos—one of whom, Miss Agnes Jansen, has
appeared with Melba and the De Reskes —and
baritones and bassos of a quality said to be fine all
round, and undoubtedly very expensive in several
cases. George Musgrove, in fact, has risked the
loss of much money in grand-opera speculation,
believing that Australia will appreciate the show
at its full worth, and give him financial encourage-
ment to do it again next year, and years after.
The so far ill-starred Overflow mine does
not seem to agree with the German doctors asso-
ciated with it. Some time ago Dr. Lilie died,
greatly regretted, and the other day Dr. Colpe, of
Nymagee, a practitioner much esteemed by the
medical profession, was found dead in the neigh-
borhood of the mine.
The Fahey fiasco in Melb. (where a young
man was wrongfully charged with assault on a
girl in a railway-carriage) was simply due to the
old jealousy between the detectives and the uni-
form police, which is o.ily one degree less bitter
than the jealousy between the individual detec-
tives themselves. In this case the detectives were
too high and mighty to consult the police at Box-
hill (where Fahey lived) who could have proved
defendant’s innocence, while the police, on the
other hand, resented the d.s’ neglect and pre-
ferred to see the Grown made a fool of by an
abortive prosecution rather than open their
mouths. The Vic. Detective Office is sadly in
want of a head.
The great joke of the period is the decision
of the Mayor of Sydney to prosecute that violent
cleaner-up, Premier Lyne, and his colleague
O’Sullivan, for keeping dirty and infectious pre-
mises in the resumed area. The shining act of
Bill Lyne’s administration was his great cleaning-
up, when he took the reins from the hands of a
dirty and effete municipal council, and scrubbed
the awful city which it should have scrubbed, but
didn’t. If the council had accused Lyne of drink,
embezzlement or bigamy it would have been bad,
but not unbearable; it would at least not have
been plugging him on his brightest virtue, so to
speak. But when Mayor Harris rises up as a
clean mayor and the head of a clean and sanitary
council, and says publicly that the filthy character
of the great cleaning-up Government has driven
him to take legal proceedings—well, insult isn’t a
name for it.


w<f
K
w W
J5Yv NEY
"drink it
for health
Andyou Derive
PiEJpHE
DRIKKIT
fOR Pleasure
tom You Acquire j
Health '
m
tfchaecGH
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
HAYY AND WAE, OFFICE.
PACKED IN 4. 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
I«F-
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD. 1 ’
Cope Bros. & Co., Ltfl., Liverpool. Agents; M, Butty & Co,, Sydney.
The Austral Otis Engineering Co. have just
completed a concentrating test on the Wilfley Table in-
stalled at their South Melbourne works of a parcel of
crushed ore representing the second product from the
concentrating Mill at the Conrad Mine, owned by Mr. J.
Howell, which hitherto has all been stacked on the mine
waiting the advent of a machine that would profitably
treat it without re*crushing. The result of the Wilfley
test is a high-grade concentrate, and tailing waste show-
ing very little values, and the Otis Co. have despatched
the tables for erection on the mine.*
■* * * *
The quantity of sulphides now treated per week
at the “ Barrier” compares favorably with the output of
any silver-lead mining field in the world. The difficulty
in treatment of sulphides is being successfully grappled
with mainly owing to improved systems of mechanical
“dressing.” In this the Luhrig Vanner plays a very
prominent part. A large number of these machines are
now in use there, and fresh orders are still being given to
the agents, Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne. The
South Mine people are remodelling their mill on up-to-
date lines, and will install twelve or more Luhrig Vanners
of the 1900 pattern. The British Co. is also erecting more
of these superior machines.*
* * W *
The Commercial* World, London, August Ist,
1900, writes regarding the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society : “ It is no new thing to find prosperity associated
with a year’s work by this Society. Indeed, this has been
the customary condition of affairs.*
* * * *
'A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
* • * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
♦ * * ¥
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, andallsortsofiron-work.*
* * * •
A very big asbestos find is reported from the
neighborhood of Queenstown, Tas. Width of body, half-
a-chain, and-the fibre is often Bor 9in. long.
Among the Palmer River (Q.) gold-properties
taken to London by Kyrle Bellew is the Ida mine, an old-
time show well worth vigorous development.
* * . *
The Port Jackson Co-operative S.S. Co. seenis
to be in for a bad time, the Marine Court enquiry having
saddled its Captain with the blame of the Fairlight-Com-
modore collision. Also, the Court found that neither
vessel had on board the statutory life-saving appliances.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/33”
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 817.
Ny. Markwald
178 William-street,
Melbourne:
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; GS Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NZ. ;
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland.
METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. Jambs’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (08/100 per oent.
pure), Blasting- Powder, Caustic Soda, Mining
Requisites, Candles, eto.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
To the Amending Municipalities-Bill, now before
N.S.W. Parliament, a clause should be added providing
that no alderman be allowed to sit whose rates are over a
month in arrear. Municipalities are mostly bossed by
landlords, who often endeavor, and successfully, to dodge
the rate-collector. Result is disinclination to enforce
payment of arrears, for fear of exposing themselves.
Consequently rates are allowed to accumulate until dead
loss often occurs. Meanwhile the inevitable overdraft is
piling up interest, and the community suffers both ways.
• • * *
“ Very Grateful ”: Sorry for you, but they are
absolutely not worth holding.
* * * *
“H.8.C.”: You must buy through a share-
broker ;it is the only way. You pay no commission
when bu.\ing ; only two or three shillings for stamp-duty
and transfer-fee. Seller pays commission.
* * • *
“Endowment”: (1) They have ample reserves
on paper, but there is no State audit in this country,
to make it certain that £lOOO worth of paper assets are
worth £lOOO in reality, and the co. is owned by a small
crowd of shareholders who hold all the principal billets,
so they really audit themselves. And they aren’t likely
to report severely on their own management. (2) No.
(3) Expenses of co. have diminished of late years. (4)
2nd June, 1900, and 17th March, 19U0.
« » * *
Sydney Daily Telegraph moans again about
the opposition to the A.M.P. extension :
“ There are still sections of the opposition striving to
discredit the directors by statements which may be
noticed as showing the extent to which misrepresentation
can be carried. It is, for instance, asserted that the
directors are seeking to extend their business to all the
hot-beds of fever in the Empire—Hongkong, Burmah,
Singapore, Demerara, and so on, to say nothing of the
Niger River territories, British Honduras, and the Fly
River. It would, of course, be distressing to picture the
votes of the niggers on the Gold Coast some day out-
weighing those of the Australian native, if it were not all
such an effort of pure imagination. ... If the A.M.P.
Society, by amextension of its field of operations, were
merely seeking to find outlets for the dissipation of the
society’s funds, why take all this trouble about it, when
it is in the power of the directors to squander them here
quite as effectually? They here have ample powers to
extend their business to consumptives and inebriates.
They can vote every officer of the society a salary of
£lO,OOO a year. They can deposit all the society’s funds
in the Post-office Savings Bank for safety, and only draw
interest on £2OO out of the fifteen millions. But the fact
remains that the directors do none of these things, though
it would be equally as much to the purpose to get up a
scare about them as about a tropical river swamp outside
Australia.”
* * • •
The Bulletin is certainly one of the papers
which drew attention to the fact that the A.M.P. directors
are fighting with desperate insistence to persuade policy-
holders to give them full power to extend theA.M.P.’s busi-
ness to the West Coast of Africa, Hongkong, India, Ceylon,
Burmah, Honduras, Demerara, the Fly River and other
dreadful and ruinous places, though it certainly never
said that they intended to extend there. What they
intend doing is only known to themselves. But the fact
remains that it is unspeakable foolishness to entrust any-
body with power to extend to such places. They may have
got power, by accident, to put the A.M.P.’s £15,000,000 of
funds in the N.S.W. Savings Bank, where the whole pile
would only bring in 16 a year interest in all; but that
has nothing to do with the case. The matter at issue is :
supposing they hadn’t that power, and supposing they
were moving heaven and earth to persuade the members
to specifically give them full authority to put all the
£15,000,000 in the Savings Bank, where it would only
earn £6 a year interest, it would be highly inadvisable to
grant them the authority asked for. Likewise if they
were found harrying the policy-holders to put a clause in
the articles of association specifically authorising them to
pay all the society’s employes, office-boy included, £lO,OOO
a year each, it would be highly desirable to vote “ No ” in
that case also. The situation is just this : The directorate
of the A.M.P. Society is making tremendous efforts to
induce the policy-holders to give full power to them, and
to all their successors, whoever the latter may be, to
extend the society’s business to every unhealthy spot in
the British empire. They don’t ask merely for authority
to extend to the temperate regions of the empire outside
Australasia, but they are also touting with intense energy
for votes to give them authority to do business in all the
unwholesome spots mentioned above, and many more
besides. And the Daily Telegraph’s argument is that
they should get this authority because they can be relied
upon not to use it. They don’t even promise themselves
that they won’t use it; the Telegraph promises for them.
And The Bulletin’s argument is that they shouldn’t get
it if they intend using it, because in that case the per-
mission will be harmful; and they shouldn’t get it if they
don’t intend using it, for in that case the permission will
be useless and not ornamental. To get down to business,
if the Telegraph will act up to its own doctrine this
paper will withdraw its opposition to the A.M.P.
extension—will withdraw it absolutely. The terms are
these : The Telegraph is hereby requested to give The
Bulletin its certified cheque for £lOOO (just as the A.M.P.
policy-holders are requested to give authority for extend-
ing the A.M.P. business to India, Ceylon, West Coast of
Africa, British East Africa, the Fly River, Hongkong, &c.)
The Bulletin doesn’t assure the Telegraph that it won’t
use the cheque, but it will get the Barrier Miner to give
the assurance on its behalf, without assuming any
responsibility (just as the A.M.P. directors don’t per-
sonally assure the members that they won’t use the
authority they are clamouring for, but the Telegraph,
without guaranteeing to make good the damage if it is
wrong, assures for them.) If the Telegraph desires to
know why on earth The Bulletin wants a cheque that it
isn’t going to use the answer is simple ; it wants that
cheque for the same reason that the A.M.P. directors
want an authority which, we are assured, they don’t in-
tend to use. And if the Telegraph says that, under these
circumstances, it would be quite as satisfactory not to give
the cheque, then The Bulletin’s reply is that it is quite
as satisfactory not to give the authority. If the D. T.
departs on the side issue that the right of extension to
India, Sierra Leone, &c., is only part of the question, and
that it is tacked on to the question of the right of exten-
sion to England (a power which the management does
intend to use), The Bulletin is quite willing to tack its
question of the £lOOO cheque on to some other question
also. But it asks the Telegraph to be logical, and hand
over that £lOOO cheque.
* * * *
And the Daily Telegraph winds up by saying
that the public may rely that the directors advocate the
extension of the society’s operations (though it is wholly
to countries where the death-rate is higher than in Aus-
tralia, and largely to countries where the interest rate is
lower), “ with a clear knowledge that by so doing this
(the A.M.P.’s) high reputation will surely be increased,
and the existing members benefited.” The Bulletin also
asks for that £lOOO cheque with the clear knowledge that
by parting with it the Telegraph’s high reputation will
be increased and the owners benefited. It gives no convinc-
ing reasons for this knowledge, but then the A.M.P.
directors don’t either.
* * • *
The People’s Prudential Assurance Co. (it has
now swelled to this dignity, but it was formerly known as
the People’s Prudential Benefit Society) Sydney, com-
pleted its fourth year on 31st August, 1900. Results so
far:
Total
Income Expenses Claims Outgoings Balance
1897 £8,611 £3,796 £3,966 £7,762 £849
1898 11,670 4,646 6,173 10,819 851
1899 11,782 4,674 6,935 10,609 1,173
1900 11,544 4,737 5,164 9,901 1,643
£4,516
The business of the People’s Prudential Assurance Co. is
mostly in the sick and accident benefit line, though it
also does life assurance of the humbler kind. It is appar-
ently another development of the system under which
doctors contract to attend a large number of people in
the lump at very little each per annum—the great
medical sweating system, as it may be called. It was
originally founded by one Mulligan, who was, for a time,
the whole institution —the laws of N.S.W. allow Mulligans
to do such things. Then it was floated into a company
(present paid-up capital, £4110) and the co. bought Mulli-
gan’s business for £3500. Therefore one of the largest
assets is goodwill, £3500. Affairs stand as follows :
Liabilities. Assets.
Paid-up capital ..£4llO Deposits, &c. ..£3515
Assurance Fund .. 4516 Mortgages, Furniture,
Small debts.. .. 279 &c. .. .. 1890
Goodwill (Mulligan) .. 3500
£8905 £8905
Income is smaller than it was last year or the year before,
and expenses are higher than they have ever yet been.
Still, the business is apparently prospering from a share-
holder’s point of view. It is accumulating money reason-
ably fast, and the expenses (41 per cent.) are really low,
as things go in the melancholy industrial business. Next
year there is to be an actuarial investigation, and then it
should be possible to say how the assets compare with the
liabilities. Next year also, the management proposes to
begin writing off the paper (goodwill) item of £3500, which
is a highly commendable idea. No dividends have yet
been paid, but they will probably commence before very
long.
* * * *
Melbourne Permanent Building Society shows
a material improvement for the year ended 31st July,
1900. This concern reconstructed in 1893, agreeing to pay
the impossible rate of 5 per cent, on its debentures, and
re-reconstructed in 1894 with debenture interest at 2£ per
cent. Results have been as follows :
(Debenture interest, 5 per cent.)
Net Loss on
Trading Property Sales, Total
Loss. &e. Loss.
1893 .. £5605 £10,587 £16,192
1894 .. 6352 16,802 23,154
(Debenture interest, 2J per cent.)
Total
Profit. Profit.
1895 608 1817 1309
Total
Profit. Loss. Loss.
1896 .. 884 1168 284
1897 w 1220 3010 1790
1898 .. 1523 7718 6195
1899 „ 1913 7122 6209 *
Total
Profit.
1900 ... 2614 603 2011
£4311 . £45,193 £49,504
Net result is a loss of £49,504 in eight years, reducing the
reserves from £56,548 to £7044. The actual losses on
property sold and for depreciation written-off have been
rather larger than appears above, but the Society has set
against them certain profits on the repurchase of its
debentures at a discount, and only the net loss is shown.
On the other hand the liabilities (apart from liabilities to
shareholders) have been reduced from £463,725 in 1893 to
£246,353, which is an enormous load lifted ; the trading
profits are increasing rapidly, and though they still only
equal £1 9s. 6d. per cent perannum on the nominal £177,164
capital, there seems no reason why they should not
presently soar to the dazzling rate of 2 per cent, or even
more. The Melbourne Permanent Building Society, in
the days of the great slump, had nearly the whole of its
mortgaged properties left on its hands; its principal
assets are £43,202 of loans on mortgage, £54,147 worth
(nominal) of vacant land, and £326,583 worth (purely
nominal) of house property. It is one of the largest and
most comprehensive city landlords in Australia. The
house property at present yields £2 Bs. 2d. per cent, net
on its nominal worth, so on real present values there is
probably a loss on this and the vacant land of £lOO,OOO or
more. ’ Still, while the institution can show increasing
profits and keep reducing its liabilities there seems no
reason why it should not hang on to its properties till
they become worth full paper value again, and with
sufficient patience it should not only save its capital in-
tact but become once more a good dividend-paying
institution.
• • *
The City and Suburban Permanent Build-
ing and Investment Society completed its 22nd year in
1900. It was the only Brisbane institution of its kind
which did not suspend in 1893, a result owing to the fact
that it owns practically no land except what its office
stands on, takes no money repayable at call, and does
pure building-society business only. The last four years
have shown these results :
Written
Profits. off Dividends,
contingencies.
Dec., 1896 .. £4,076 3 p.c. = £2,953
„ 1897 .. 4,111 £366 3 „ = 2,797
„ 1898 .. 4,680 102 3£ „ = 3,125
Feb., 1900 .. 5,915 211 4 „ = 4,007
£18,782 £679 £12,882
Reserves have risen from £6804 in 1895 to £12,025, an in-
crease of £5221. The City and Suburban, of Brisbane,
isn’t the ordinary kind of building society as the term is
understood in Australia now. The societies which pay
dividends regularly and keep increasing their reserves
could almost be counted on the thumb of one hand at
present.
* * * *
The belated report of the Perpetual Trustees,
Estate and Agency Co. (Dunedin, M.L.) for the year
ended 30th April, 1.900, has just come to hand. It is a
material improvement on some of its predecessors, as
shown below:
Profit. Dividend.
1897 £1,476 12£ per cent. = £1,016
1898 1,722 121 „ = 1,016
1899 1,308 121 „ = 1,016
1900 1,943 12j „ = 1,016
£6,449 £4,064
In 1898 the Perpetual Trustees, Estate and Agency Co.
Erofessed to have an undivided profit balance of £2519,
ut as its accounts included the purely paper item of
“ Goodwill £2831,” there was really a shortage in its
visible assets, as against liabilities to shareholders
and the public, of £312. In the four years since then it
has accumulated £2385 over and above its regular 12J per
cent, div., and after writing off the objectionable paper
item of goodwill there is a real balance of £2073. V\ hy
the directorate does not put £2OOO of this to reserve (a
highly necessary item which the Perpetual Trustees,
Estate and Agency has never yet possessed), and then set
itself to systematically build up that reserve to solid pro-
portions, it is difficult to understand. Not only should
every trustee co. have a solid reserve, but both it and the
capital not actually used in the business should be in-
vested in State securities only; there is no institution
which requires to be more completely above suspicion
than a trustee co. The Perpetual, of Dunedin, earns
larger profits in proportion to capital, and pays larger
dividends, than any trustee co. in Australia or Tasmania,
but the smallness of the capital (£8126 paid-up) makes a
large reserve all the more essential. It is to be hoped
that the management won’t raise the dividend above 12J,
which is large enough in all conscience, but will set itself
to strengthen the institution instead.
* * * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society of
N.S.VV. shows these profits for the past five years
January, 1896.. ..£3189 July, 1898 .. ..£4184
July, 1896 .. .. 3193 January, 1899.. .. 4968
January, 1897.. .. 3677 July, 1899 .. .. 4801
July, 1897 .. .. 3962 January, 1900.. .. 6495
January, 1898.. .. 4250 July, 1900 .. .. 5054
The usual 10 per cent, dividend, and bonus of 10 per cent,
to shareholders on purchases, absorb £4839. The balance,
with £Bl4 brought forward, leaves £1029 at credit of pro-
fit and loss. Of this, £5OO is placed to reserve-fund (the
first addition made for a very long while), raising it to
£12,000, and the other £529 is carried forward. The total
reserves are thus £12,529, or nearly double the paid-up
capital of £6993. Also, it is satisfactory to note that the
bank overdraft, which was £3822 six months ago, is down
to £986.
• * • *
The Argus Permanent Building and Investment
Society (Melbourne) is one of the very rare institutions
which never suspended, reconstructed, asked its de-
positors for reduced interest or extended time, or wrote
off capital. It even claims to have never yet sold-up a
client for unpaid interest. The Argus has stopped paying
dividends for a considerable time, but otherwise, for a
small concern vvith only £16,825 capital, it has made a
remarkably good showing all through the lean years :
Loss through de-
Trading loss. preciation of pro-
perty, &c.
April, 1895 ... £123 ..
Trading profit.
„ 1896 ... 7
„ 1897 .. 19 .. £lO6
„ 1898 .. 42 ..
„ 1899 .. 109 .. 250
„ 1900 .. 237 .. 205
Profit .. £291 Loss .. £561
The net loss in six years is thus £270, reducing the re-
serves from £lB5O to £l5BO. Even this, however, leaves
a reasonably solid reserve. Liabilities to depositors,
bank, and mortgagee were £14,443 in 1896, and are now
reduced to £13,512. The investments, after deducting
allowance made for doubtful debts, yield over £4 3s. per
cent., so the assets seem to be worth somewhere near the
amount now set against them, and there should be not
very much more writing down to provide for. The trading
profit is now about £1 Bs. per cent, on capital—not much,
yet more than the building society average just now.
* * * * »
A benevolent Melbourne lady, described as
“advanced in years and suffering from the effects of a
carriage accident,” recently offered the Alfred Hospital a
gift of £5OO provided the hospital paid her an annuity of
£4O a year for the rest of her life. Offer declined. Now,
how “ advanced in years” was that lady ? If a lady of 60,
even though she may have suffered from 24 carriage acci-
dents, puts down £5OO on the counter of the A.M.P.
Society, she will only get £4l 16s. Bd. per annum for the
rest of her life. And then she is supposed to be getting
full value for her money—not making a charitable gift
to *
Sydney Harbor Colliery (Balmain) has now got
its shaft down 2000 feet, and hopes, in another year, to
have it down 3000 feet, and to be blackening the glorious
harbor with coal-dust at a great and profitable rate.
» • • «
The ancient conflict between squatter and pros-
pector has broken out at Wertago copperfield (Far West
N.S.W.), where the erection of a smelting furnace had
lately to be stopped because it was found that no timber,
either live or dead, could be cut in the whole of the
country except by the pastoral tenants. But the miner
is having his innings in the West now (five out of the
seven Western members are miners’ men), and the
obnoxious reservation has been cancelled in favor of one
a little less obnoxious.
• * • *
B.H. Consols, the English-owned mystery,
lying on a flat three-quarters of a mile from the Broken
Hill lode, is again yielding some lumps of almost pure
silver. There Is an “ indicator ” in the property ; they
follow this, and every hundred feet or so get into a bunch
of metal, paying a year’s expenses (it is economically
worked), and perhaps a div. or two. Practically no
shares are held in Australia ; but it finds in the Consols
a never-failing source of speculation for geologists and
mineralogists.
* * * *
What the just-floated South Blocks are to the
south end of the B.H. line, the Victoria B.H. is to the
north end. Both were worked years ago; both were
abandoned when the silver-slump came, not that either
ever marketed any silver, but because calls were not forth-
coming. In those days the Victoria B.H. was the Vic-
toria Cross. It has £lO,OOO to go on with now, and recent
developments in the neighboring North ought to show
the management which way to prospect. But the B.H.
lode must end somewhere ; and if it doesn’t end just
before it reaches the Cross, the chances are that it does
end for all practical purposes before it gets out of it.
To prove it one way or the other is a fair speculation.
• •* * »
Dear Bulletin.—Your correspondent’s infor-
mation that you “ had forgotten ” and which appears in
your Wild Cat of Bth inst., as put is misleading. This co.
(Soldiers’ Hill Diamond Co.) has paid in its first year’s
existence £lOOO in two divs. from profits in working the
mine, not as stated “ £6OO mostly from a 2s. 6d. call on
contributing shares.” The total sum from allotment of
shares was £750 —£600 of which was paid for engine and
plant, leaving for working expenses a balance of only
£l5O ; yet no call has ever been made. The Company
paid its way from the start from the proceeds of
diamonds. The mine has been run for shareholders, not
for the market. Additional mines have been purchased
and developed by a tunnel 517 ft. through hard granite,
costing up to £5 per foot, which has been paid for out of
profits. This co. is the first and only diamond co. in
Australia that has ever paid a dividend, due principally
to the fact that it has the only perfect diamond-saving
machinery yet erected in Australia. Other co.’s on the
field whose mines are five times richer in diamonds, and
that have spent many thousands of pounds in unsuitable
machinery, are to-day closed down or in liquidation. The
diamonds are here, and the field will yet come promin-
ently to the front when the mines get into proper hands
with suitable machinery and proper management.—
Yours, G. B. B. Elliott, Managing Director.
* * * *
If this claim were at Kalgoorlie, “ what price ? ”
Recently, at Nt eld’s claim, Wyalong (N.S.W.), it was
decided to put in a record shot at the 300 ft. level. They
expected to blow down 20 tons of the reef, which at the
pofnt selected is 14ft. thick Result, 50 tons of Stone,
which included one solid block of arsemcal-pi rites ore
measuring 10ft. x Oft. x 4ft.-about 24 tons, the assay of
which was 9oz. per ton. It was hoped to get this ina #"jT
ficent bonanza to the surface intact, but lhe t^‘' v pt b e en
to be abandoned. The only way to do have b een
to sink a new shaft from the surface. The P la “ to °
expensive, and so the lump had to be broken up below.
In Neeld’s claim at the 200 ft. level there is not
a break in the reef for 900 ft. along. One co nt' nu o U3 b °"y
of payable ore. There is a little claim on Neeld s boun-
dary called the Bantam. They have only 17ft. of ground,
and they have taken the stone out in a shaft or under-
hand stope down to 600 ft., with highly payable results.
The stone at 600 ft. goes 250 z. per ton, and it is in tms
class of ore that the Neelds—poor things !—will have to
operate when they reach the same level.
Cobar Chesney, N.S.W. is being examined and
reported on this week by a man representing London
people who are negotiating on a basis of £200,000 casn
which would mean over £1 a share. If they do not come
up to scratch another representative of London capital is
(so he declares) ready to take the mine over on a big cash
basis with a large paid-up share interest and a solid work-
ing capital. Shares 7s.—indicating that the market has
no faith in these deals eventuating or none in the mine or
perhaps none in either. That the mine can be made a
big one with big money and good management there is
not a doubt.
* * * *
North Nymagee, N.S.W. Writer’s old copper
friend proudly announces that the mine has been practi-
cally self-supporting the last six months. Sent away ore
that netted upwards of £6OO. If that meant self-support
it doesn’t take much to run a copper-show at Nymagee.
A Is. call is made for the purpose of putting up a concen-
trating-plant. It will take two or three more, and then
it will be found that some more Is. calls will be needed
for water-conservation, which seems to have been over-
looked. The management is simply playing with the
copper business. Some weeks ago a good bunch of grey
ore was found in the N.N., and the day after the dis-
covery one of the workmen, when asked, “ What about
the grey ore ? ” replied, “ Well, we had some splendid ore
yesterday, but it’s all gone to-day.” When copper goes
out zinc has a playful habit of coming in. Shares, 2s. 9d. ;
worked and managed as the mine is and likely to be, they
would be dear at any price. Too much Overflow manage-
ment about North Nymagee.
* » * *
Coal shares : It is many a year since the market
in coal shares was so lively in Sydney. The advances in
Newcastle stocks from Sept, to Sept, have been remark-
able. Hettons, from 325. to 535. ; Newcastle, from £lO
to £l5 ; Vale of Clwydd, Bs. to 13s. ; Wallsend, £23£ to
£27 ; Wickham and Bullock Island, 11s. 3d. to 16s. 6d.
• * * »
The Jennings Sluicing Co., Adelong, N.S.W.,
is in financial trouble, and the question of raising addi-
tional capital is being considered.
* * * •
Boulder Main Beef: Important developments
reported in this mine last week, on the strength of which
shares rose 12s. in London, representing an increased
valuation of £70,000. Of course, the ore is “ bristling
with telluride,” but the market having talked no doubt a
good find has been made. This mine has about 300 ft. of
good ground on the Gt. Boulder southern boundary, has
paid a number of divs., and is well managed on the field
as well as in London.
( Continued on page 2b.)


■
MV
OUTFITS.^^
AN ORIENT BOOT^
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
63/-
TO MEASURE
ALL CLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
i Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PAViP JONCS & COMPANY,
<ssorg* & Barrack Sts., Sydney.
LOOK
HERE & BE-HOLD!
n
THERE ARE
HANDY HAND-CAMERAS
AT
. HARRINGTON’S .
AND
Heaps of every kind of Photographic Requisites
and Novelties.
Popular Cameras from ss. to £5. . . .
• . . High-Grade Cameras from £5 to £5O
To Wit. HARRINGTON’S FOCAL PLANE FOLDING HAND CAMERA.
High-Grade Instrument, suitable for the fastest work up
to 1/1000 of a second. Fitted with Anastigmat Lens with Iris f/8 and
r ocussing Jacket, Focal Plane Shutter, New Patent Adjustable Slit,
Latest Improved View Finder, Opens and Closes with One Movement,
built of Black Ebony, covered with best quality Leather, folds into
x6in. Price with 3 D.P.II’s, £;Q 10s ; ditto, £-p., £l5 15s.
66 King-st., Sydney.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.
Branches and Agencies in every Colony.
SOCIETY
The presence of the Duke of York, heir
to the throne, at the first meeting of the Federal
Parliament, bearing the Imperial Commission for
opening, is playing it a little low down on Gov.-
.General Hopetoun. Though nominally the repre-
sentative of the CrOwn may be the first person in
the land, the Earl will naturally take second place
to the Duke in the notice of the public. So much-
difference will the visit of the Royal couple make
to the Governor-General, that it is only reasonable
to suppose he was consulted before the decision
to send them was arrived at. The temporary loss
of position in Australia will perhaps be com-
Eensated for in the fact that the Earl will always
e able to pose as the entertainer of royalty, on a
scale which falls to the lot of but few of the
peerage in England.
* * * *
'The Federal flag, to which the adjudi-
cators awarded Melb. Herald’s £25 prize from
several thousand designs, and which the Common-
wealth is to be invited to adopt, is not a marvel of
either beauty or originality. The left upper
quarter shows the Union Jack ; the left lower, the
red and white stripes of U.S.A.; and right half,
the Southern Cross on a red field. The Union
Jack and the Stars and Stripes are a dull, unim-
aginative steal, and the white races of South
A SABRE-GUT OF SAXON
SPEECH.
THE MISSUS : “ The boss
didn't come with you,
Harry. Was he intoxicated?"
HARRY (the blackboy): “ No fear, missus I—him too tianky drunk for that !”
America had a lien on the Southern Cross
for at least 200 years, and those of South
Africa for at least 100 years, before Aus-
tralia was settled by white men. Surely it is
possible to find some design that will be really
Australian —not cadged from any place. The
white elephant of Siam is reasonably distinctive;
it has at least the merit of not being easily mis-
taken for any other banner. What is the matter
with the kangaroo, or the red waratah on a blue
ground? Of course, the flag selected by the
judges and described above is pretty much what
might have been expected. The judges who gave
it the £25 prize were looking out for an “ Im-
perial ” design which would be emblematical of
Jingo newspaper opinion re the English-speaking
race and so forth. They found it.
* m + m
The unlucky episode of the Redwood ser-
mon at the dedication of the Sydney R.C. Cathe-
dral will not be dropped in a hurry by the more
aggressive Protestant section of the community.
The Evangelical Council states that, as the Queen
is prevented by her coronation oath from attend-
ing a celebration of the Mass, Lord Beauchamp
committed a grave error in attending the service
as the Queen’s representative, in the uniform
always worn as sucn, and attended by his official
staff. The matter is to be ventilated by the Evan-
gelical Council to the bitter end. The ultimate
result will not affect Lord Beauchamp, who will
soon be safe thousands of miles away, but will
only revive the old-world sectarian feeling which
seemed to be dying down in N.S. Wales.
Of course a Governor may attend Mass,
otherwise Lord Gormanston and other devout
Roman Catholics who have been Australian
Governors could not have gone to Mass. But the
Evangelical point is that Lord Beauchamp should
not have attended St. Mary’s “inState,” seeing
that neither he nor any other Governor has
attended any church “in State.”
The perky brother of a well-known Sydney
R.C. politician was the other day spoken to about
the Redwood affair and solemnly volunteered the
opinion that it was a “ most lamentable ” occur-
rence. “But,” added he with a twinkle,. “it will
show ’em that we are still alive.” _ Which quite
recalls the old story of the priest who was
preaching on the evils of drink. “Drink, my
dearly beloved brethren, is a curse. It is Drink
that makes you shoot at your landlords —and miss
them."
• * • *
The first practical outcome of Archbishop
Redwood’s foolish attack on Protestantism was
visible at the annual ball in aid of St. Vincent’s
Hospital, Sydney. Usually on this occasion the
Town Hall is crowded, and the complaint is
general that there is not room for dancing, on
account of the crush; but this year the reverse
was the case. The dailies let the thing down
lightly by simply stating that the attendance was
not so large as usual, and there was plenty of
room for dancing, but the real truth is that the
thing was a frost, and that Protestants were con-
spicuous by their absence.
* * • *
It would be interesting to learn the full
and exact influence which is being brought to
bear upon certain Australian dailies to induce
them to ‘ ‘ barrack ” so earnestly against any
reduction in the salaries of the State Governors
under the Commonwealth. In more than one
instance the Chief Justice of the province has his
eye on the vice-regal billet, while the leaders of
Society are extremely anxious that none of the
hospitalities which they consider peculiarly their
own privilege should be curtailed because of a
reduction of the Lieut.-Governor’s salary to
reasonable proportions.
* * * *
Lord Tennyson’s regime is so far remark-
able that it is the only one for years during which
no scandal of any kind has been talked concerning
the doings of any of the inhabitants of Adelaide
Govt. House. Frugality is the very worst
thing that can be urged against it, and certainly
there is no reason for expecting that a, Vice-
Regality should over-shoot his professional income
by profuse hospitality.
The “assistant paymasters” accompany-
ing (at England’s expense and in the interests of
the Sydney Hekald and Telegraph) the Aus-
tralian contingent to China, have already found
sufficient spare time from their exacting labors on
the troopship to write lengthy accounts of men
and matters on the “ Salamis ” to their respective
journals. The appearance of these letters will
come as a great shock to Premier Lyne, who ex-
plained to N.S.W. Assembly that the duties
attached to assistant - pay mastering were so
onerous, the hours so long and the work so
important that he could not see how those selected
could possibly have time to act as war-correspon-
dents.
* * * *
The paymaster-reporter of the Sydney
Daily Telegraph bursts forth, in a recent issue
of that enterprising paper, into an interview with
Old-Man-of-the-Sea Hixson, which took place
somewhere off .the coast of China. He also spreads
himself in an article which turns chiefly upon the
Great Necessity which exists for an Australian
Fleet (with suitable Paymasters, one for each
sailor probably), which will plough the Main
around various Foreign Shores, with a D.T. re-
porter at the helm of each ship and a leader-writer
in the conning-tower.
* * * *
Sydney Public Library enquiry has de-
generated into little more than a slanging-match
between bookseller Dymock and Librarian Ander-
son. Each claims to be a book-expert. No doubt
Mr. Dymock knows the trade by which he lives,
but as for Mr. Anderson—a few years ago when
he was N.S.W. Director of Agriculture, the
Sydney dailies boomed him as a scientific expert
in soils, crops, &c. Now he bobs up an expert
bibliographer. Agriculture and bibliography !
each needing the study of a lifetime.
* • * *
The prize servant-girl story :
Dear Bulletin. —A certain Tasmanian seaport is just
now a servant-girl’s paradise. There the most incom-
petent slaveys can command the best wages and choose
their mistresses at that. Recently the cook at the local
THE CROSSING-SWEEPERS.
hotel, who was drawing the not-to-be-despised screw of
£2 a week, demanded a rise and, when refused, imme-
diately gave notice. At the end of the week, however,
instead of departing with her baggage, she merely moved
to one of the best apartments in the house, and as there
was nothing against her character she could not be
turned out. At meal times she sampled every dish and
audibly criticised the cooking—done by the unfortunate
landlady herself. This went on for a week. Then flesh
and blood could stand it no longer, and the cook moved
back to her old room with a screw of £i !—Amt M.
* * * *
Letter received (call it “ Exhibit A ”) by a
Melbourne lady who advertised for a neat-handed
household Phyllis :
Dear Mrs. .
I naw right theses few lines to let you now I received
your letter and was verr.v sorrie to Disopinted you but
my Auntie died the morning I was coming a way and i did
not recive your letter till Wednesday moring but if you
have not got a girl to sut i .will come fore 5 shillings a
week till i get quit in youre ways If you will take me I
will do my very best fore to please you if you have any
Childern I will help you with them to sow ore nitting. ore
Croshing In my spare time at night has i now nobry in
town I ham tiered of the crunty has I have to worke very
hard for 10 of them in family becides 7 Oows and pigs and
other out side worke they are very hard one me and give
me now thanks fore it they are ally telling me to go but
they will not give me any money to go with sow
if you would be sow kind enouf to send my faire
I will pay you whin I come down I will not disopoint you
this time but come at wonce if you will say you will meat
has i don’t now my way a bout Melbourne right please at
wonce and letmewnow yourse truly
This isn’t published out of any high-stomached
scorn for the Australian system of education, but
rather with pride and satisfaction. The Bulle-
tin has met so many Australians who can’t write
at all that it almost admires the bush girl who is
able to state in paper and ink that she doesn’t
mind “ nitting ore croshing ” in addition to her
other engagements.
* * * *
Rev. John Walker, of Woollahra, Sydney,
energetically pursues his collecting tour in aid of
the N.S.W. Presbyterian Centenary Fund. His
diai’y is published bi-weekly in the Presbyterian.
Up to date, in pounds and promises, he shows
£27,000; £16,000 of this, however, is put down as
promises. The balance, nearly £lO,OOO, is cash in
hand. He has given himself three years to gather
the proposed £lOO,OOO. One year has already
gone. He says the bulk of the people are giving
cordially, but the rich, so far, have been somewhat
slow, although a few have forked out well.
According to the list, the wealthiest Presbyterians
are to be found in Armidale, Bur wood, German-
ton, Manly, Wahroonga, Waverley, Woollahra,
Walcha, and Inverell.
» * * *
Evolution of a name for federal capital: —
Barton—Bar-town—Cumanaveadrink. Last-men-
tioned name hereby entered for competition.
A VERSATILE WIFE.
(“ Variety’s the spice of wife.”— Bulletin proverb.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The most successful wife I know
Is little Mrs. Daniel Low,
The most contented married man
I’ve ever come across is Dan.
If Mrs. Low is dark or fair
I really cannot tell, I swear.
Ohameleon-like, to please the men,
She changes color now and then.
Though some to dye are much afraid,
In one brief year her hair will fade
From glossy black through sparkling brown
To gold as soft as chicken-down.
Not one complexion does she own,
But every hue and every tone.
At time with cheek of tender tan
An Eastern houri flatters Dan,
And then with blend of cream and rose
She thrills him with an English pose ;
Or, pale, with hair of auburn stain,
She wins her husband’s love again.
And Dan in state monogamous
Fares like a Sultan—bar the fuss.
“ A wife ?” he cries. “ Behold, in her
I run a perfect harem, sir ! ”■
SILAS SNELL.


mm
GRS
Showrooms
13 Hunter Street, Sydney.
J
he Lucky Tur-
-1 loige Set Iron
urse Shoe, 9s.
NEW SHIPMENTS
y of
NOVELTIES.
Comprising Gem Set Hearts,
Pendants, Charms, etc.,
received by every mail. *
The Largest and Best-
selected Stock in the
Colonies.
a
Pearl Set Heart
Pendants,
from 40s to £B.
EVERY DESCRIPTION
of
LADIES’ TOILET
REQUISITES
in
Sterling Silver, Ivory, and
Ebony Ware.
Illustrated Catalogue Post
Free on application.
Kangaroo
Charm, 20a.
Jewellers, Gold and Silversmiths,
IF YOU HAD
Two Pairs
of Feet
Ladies’ Black Vici-liid Oxford Lace Shoes, with
Patent tips, medium, narrow and wide toes,
11/6, 12/9, 15/6.
Men’s Tan Willow Calf Boots, specially tanned
for softness and firm wearing, made on
pointed and medium-narrow lasts, 22/6.
ou would not need us so much.
But as you have only
ONE PAIR
You come to us because it is our
business to take care of them.
We understand perfectly the proper
fitting of feet.
CALLAGHAN AND SON,
Sellers of Good Boots,
395 George Street, Sydney.
Sydney attorney Mark Mitchell suggests
that there should be a specially-designed elector’s
right for use in the Federal elections, and which,
after stamping, should be returned to the holder
to preserve as a memento and a heirloom. The
idea- is a good one.
• * * *
Australian women are, unfortunately, by
no means averse to the endearments of the
Asiatic alien. Madras Times (,Tune 14) tells the
story of a Hindoo tailor, who married, in this
country, an Australian girl, Louisa G , and
induced her to return to Calcutta with him and
settle down at Howrah. Here the wife was closely
confined and subjected to ill-treatment. She
finally induced her husband to carry a note, con-
taining an alleged medical prescription, to a
European chemist. The chemist communicated
with-the police, who found the woman in a lament-
able .condition, and removed her to hospital. It
is as well that our women-folk should realise that
the Asiatic generally regards the gentle sex as
very.poor cattle. The Hindoo and the Chinaman
have.no respect for the woman’s body, and the
Mahometan won’t allow her any soul. She had
better stick to Us, after all.
» * »
“Cecil P.” : Re Mrs. Edmund Barton not
meeting any “ haw-haw ■’ Englishmen at ’Ome
(Woman’s Letter, 8.,.25/8/’00). This was probably
because Mrs. Barton did not encounter any pre-
tentious persons of the commercial-drummer order.
Like “ humph-hunoph ” in Australia, that sort of
thing is confined to,a quite inferior class. A short
“ er ” —due generally to shyness or other causes of
verbal unreadiness—may be endured, but to “haw-
haw,” as to “ liumph-humph,” is to betray a sense
of superiority—which is accounted hideous form
by decent people.
, * * ■» *
Some of the aristocratic lady nurses in the
S’ African hospitals are perfervidly sympathetic.
One of them recently rushing to her favorite
Tommy, found him fast asleep.- Pinned to his
coverlet was a scrap of paper on which he had
scrawled :
“ To il to be nussed to-day respectfully J.M.”
What a world of pathos in this appeal to be let
alond!
One of George Meredith’s characters ob-
serves that woman is the last animal
that riian will be able to civilise.
In Adelaide t’other day a good-
looking girl of 15 was ordered
to the State Children’s
Department for 3
years- as an
uncontrollable
child. She ,
had been
placed in ser-
vice by heraged
grand - parents,
but ran away to
a house of ill-
fame.- On hearing
the decision of the J.’sP.,
she threw herself on the
floor in a paroxysm of rage, ■
and it took four constables
to remove her, the
grand-parents weeping
bitterly the while. \
Three or four
years ago the Melb.
police amused them-
selves by pretending
to clear all the soiled
doves out of'Lonsdale
Street, a farce which
merely served to enlarge
the suburban radius of
dovecott ry. The Lonsdale
Street flutter is quite forgotten
n o w. T’other
day a man was
taken, to Melb.
Hospital suffer-
ing from a stab in
the eye inflicted by a
sweet girl lodger in one
of the old “ boarding-houses” up
street. And the police make no
fuss about the matter.
The light that
failed—the electric-
lighting of
Sydney Domain
and Hyde Park, ,
which Minister
O’Sullivan as-
sured the
Sydney public
nine months
ago should be as
fixed as the laws
of gravitation in a
couple of months.
At a recent Cumberland
district (N.S.W.) marriage everybody immedi-
ately concerned was named Smith, and a prelimi-
nary invitation ran—“ Mr. and Mrs. Smith”
(bride’s parents) “invite the presence of Mr.
and Mrs. Smith ” (bridegroom’s parents) “at
the marriage of their daughter, Miss Smith, to
Mr. Smith.”
* * * *
In view of certain proposals of N.S.W.
National Council of Women to deprive the
thirstier sex of the power to get a drink after the
ordinary shop-closing hours, and thereby drive
them home to their wives and sweethearts for
comfort and solace : Why doesn’t the Council take
the situation by the scruff of the neck and simply
force Premier Lyne to pass a law making it
punishable (by imprisonment) for any man to be
caught out after G. 30 p.m. unless in the company
of a woman? Men would then be compelled for
their own safety to take a lady friend with them
everywhere, and the lady friend would have to be
well treated and looked after, or else the miserable
man-thing might find himself suddenly deserted
when the slavers appointed under the Act put in
an unexpected appearance.
* * * »
Commissioners threaten to become as
numerous in N.S.W. as colonels in the U.S.
Boards seem to be going out of fashion, and the
Imperial imagination of the period demands com-
missions. President of the Darling I r arbor Com-
mission, President of the Harbor Trust Commis-
sion, President of the Fire Brigade Commission,
and so on, carry resonance and wide suggestive-
ness of power and dignity. Compared with
“ Head of the Water and Sewerage Board ” they
are truly magnificent.
* * * *
Owing to the industrious W.C.T.U. it will
soon be quite impossible to build a new hotel in
any part of South Australia. Under a recent Act
a majority of citizens in any district can declare
that no licences for new houses shall be granted
for seven years. Barring the metropolis itself,
these restrictions already apply to every district
around Adelaide, and now the Cold Tea party is
attacking the country electorates. When a poll
is taken the already-established publicans, who
naturally seek a monopoly, work enthusiastically
with their cold-water enemies, and, as the average
citizen is too tired to worry about the matter, the
voting is always one way.
* * • •
Rumored that N.S.W. Minister for Educa-
tion Perry will call together the two rival art
societies (which now have their miserable feud
subsidised by tlie State to the tune of £BOO a year)
and give them half-an-hour to settle their dispute
—penalty for not settling, abolition of both sub-
sidies. As aforesaid feud is founded on the differ-
ence between artistic tweedledum and tweedledee,
and whether eggs should be broken at the blunt
end or the thin, such a threat would be popular
with the public, who want to pay for the main-
tenance of art, and incidentally artists, and not
for art-wrangles.
AUSTRALIA FOR THE
WHITE MAN.
S HE: "What do you want for those
five cabbages?”
HE: “One shilling, m’am.”
S HE: “ Why, I can get them from the Chinaman
for that, you know!”
Sydney City Council, as a meek way of
celebrating the birth of the Commonwealth, pro-
poses to spend £5OO in planting a few nice trees
as heirlooms for succeeding generations. Which
sets one thinking of “ Arbor Day” in Sydney. A
few years back the local School Boards assiduously
planted trees in the presence of the scholars of
the public schools. This ceremony was done at
Glovt. expense, and was called “Arbor Day,” and
was to be an annual function. But Arbor Day
seems to have died with the first batch of trees it
planted.
The members of the Melb.
Scottish regiment have a sub-
stantial grievance, to which they
are wont to give profane expres-
sion. Their abiding sorrow is
due to the kilt and the pertina-
cious familiarity of a large pro-
portion of the female population
with whom they come in contact
during street marches and func-
tional peregrinations. For these
women, it seems, the braw, bare
legs of the antipodean “ Hielan’-
men ” have an awesome and irre-
sistible fascination which mani-
fests itself in a strange way, the
poor weak creatures being im-
pelled to prod the tender knees
and unprotected calves of the
kilted military with anything
they may have in their hands,
an umbrella for preference. So
that in the course of an ordinary
night march a nice young
Scotchman will often have his
legs scandalously disfigured with
pinches and punctures. The
female inspired to jab at the
unclothed masculine calf usu-
ally emits an insane and malig-
nant giggle. A gallant Scot
marching to the Exhibition
Building the other Saturday
night made a slash with his clay-
more, and laid waste a fifteen-
and-sixpenny gamp wielded by a
florid matron in Swanston-st.
Another hero sadly displays
three hat-pins gathered out of
his left shank during the same
evening.
♦ * *
A peculiar malformation
was brought to light at Mel-
bourne, recently, when a half-
caste arrested by the police was
found to have six fingers on each
hand, the little fingers being
duplicated.
In South Australia children under 18
years of age are now never brought before the
ordinary police-court when charged with offences ;
there is a special “departmental court ” for their
benefit. During the last 12 months 273 children
have been charged before this court, 135 of them
for alleged misdemeanors ; but in only six cases
were the culprits sent to gaol. The “ State Chil-
dren’s Department” runs the tribunal, which, it
is locally claimed, is the first of the kind anywhere
and is doing excellent work.
* m * *
The Bishops of the Anglican Synod who
complain that English clergymen are accepted in
Australia on their credentials, but Australian
clergy are not so treated in England, voice only
one specimen of British arrogance. A member of
“ Lords ” who visits Australia has only to produce
his card and all Australian cricket-club meetings
are open to him. Members of Australian clubs
must back their cards with cash in England. And
so in several other fields. . „ .
* * * *
“Easel”: Attending a picture-sale in
Sydney, the other day, it struck me as a rank
absurdity that paintings, &e., should be offered
for purchase in dingy and badly-lighted auction-
rooms. Would it not be better for sellers and
buyers alike if periodical picture-auctions were
held in one of the art-societies’ well-lighted gal-
leries —which, by the way, are now empty nearly
all the year round ?
. * m • *
G-ov. Beauchamp, speaking at N.S.W.
Municipal Conference : “If some of the Sydney
streets were worked as potato-patches they would
probably be most profitable, but regarded as
•streets they are failures.” Mayor Harris here
tried to smile. “ Little Billee” also stated that
he was surprised that in a community which
prided itself on its democracy, the measure of
local government, one of the first accompaniments
of modern democracy, should be so limited. Then
it was Premier Lyne’s turn to try to look as if he
enjoyed'it.
How’s this for the basis
of a waistcoat pocket novel!
Years ago a man and woman
married. Years since they were
divorced and both married
afresh. Recently the man’s
second wife died, also the
“woman’s second husband ; and
a few days ago the divorced
couple were re-married at
Christchurch, M.L. What an
interesting exchange of connu-
bial confidences there will be !
* J|e 9**
Cremation, according to
the Bishop of Salford, Eng.,
offends Christian instincts, for
death is sleep, and sleep is
connected with the churchyard
and not with frizzling. But,
according to the creed the bishop
professes, this slumber, for the
majority of persons, has got to
end in an everlasting “frizzle,”
anvhow !
“ Weka,” an old Bulletin correspondent,
writes from Maoriland
Have just heard from a friend of mine who went to
S’Africa some months ago. Here are a few extracts from
his letter :—“ lam firing now on the Natal railways at
Bs. per day ” (he left Bs. per day in M.L.). “ I was clean-
ing a few weeks at ss. a day, and some have been at it
for two years ; how they live here on ss. puzzles me. Lots
of people are coming here only to be sorry for it, as wages
will come down. Some of the gold-mining co.’s are bring-
ing men out from England on two years’ engagement at
10s. per day, not equal to ss. in M.L., as everything is
very dear.
IN AT THE DEATH.
“ Going to a ball, eh? I didn't know you could dance.
“No, but I can eat.”
“ Black and White ” to The Bulletin
The trouble over the exhibition of a nude male model
before a mixed class, lately referred to in your columns,'
recalls a historic deputation of girl art-students which
waited upon the director of Vic. National Gallery to ask
that their male model might no longer have any of his
manly beauty draped. The spokeswoman pointed out
that the male students were allowed to draw from a, lady
wearing not the “ teeny-weeniest bit of clothes” and it was
a manifest injustice to poor down-trodden woman that she
should not be allowed the same privileges in her artistic
career. The director, touched with the pathos of the
situation, said he had no objection to a reform, if
arrangements could be made with the model, and the
deputation withdrew. The spokeswoman then sought
out the model, a grey-bearded old chap of 55, and put the
case before him. The elderly Apollo nearly dropped and,
blushing like a beaten baby, blurted out a horrified
refusal. Later on he confided in the male students, and
having been assured that he could go back into the class
with safety, he ventured in with his scant clothing tightly
clasped to his bosom in case any attempt should be made
to supplement moral suasion by force. This ended the
Movement.
* * * m
A Northern River (N.S.W.) cockie wrotg
his Parliamentary representative lately, stating
that a son had been born him (cookie), that he in-
tended to give it the member’s Christian name,
and that a christening present from the member
would oblige.
* * ¥ *
The most striking feature of the prize-list
of Adelaide annual show—agricultural, horticul-
tural, &c. —was that about every third prize-
winner in the comprehensive poultry-classes was
the “Magill Boys’ Reformatory.” And it is a
characteristic circumstance, too. While waterside
Sydney sends its young scapegraces to coil ropes
and climb rigging, bucolic S. Aus. sends hers to
study fowls and farming.
* * * »
The Adelaide police lately ran in a person
of such phenomenal filth that they couldn’t bring
themselves to take him into the police-court (not
that it is a spotless place that smells like Araby
the blest), and a shuddering beak came out into
the yard, and, standing to windward afar off, gave
the curio two months. The policeman didn’t
capture him in the usual way, but drove his prize
AN EXPENSIVE TOY.
FATHER: "Good heavens I that instrument cost £150!”
MOTHER: “ Don't stop him! Don’t stop him! It keeps him
quiet for hours.”
it front of him with a long stick. There was
nothing definite against him, but the useful charge
of vagrancy was rung in to give an excuse for a
good wash. Vagrancy is a handy accusation, but
the law could get there just the same, and
establish a most valuable precedent at the same
time, if an Act was passed under which a citizen
could be openly and honestly lumbered on a charge
of vermin.
♦** * '
Why has the N.S.W. Seventh Regiment
Inquiry Report been suppressed ? What was in
it, anyhow? It is said to be most interesting
reading.


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’B success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY'S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing t
-^' rUe MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Same prloes and attention as If you bought among st the dally crowds at the counters.
pgTURC
m
&
Sr.
IN TVte
All Drapers Everywhere.
sm Sion
have MO Equal.
Ateherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMANS LETTER.
. Sydney, September 25, 1900.
Mr Dear Mtkr.—
After waiting all the season for a favorable
opportunity to make its hop, St. Vincent’s ball
finally landed itself in the middle of the most un-
lucky week of the whole year. With Protestants
up in arms against those printed utterances of
Archbishop Redwood, it was a positive act of
bravery for that ball to come off, as it did, last
Thursday night. It was postponed in May and
June on account of the war. Here, in September,
it finds itself in the heart of a fiercely-raging
battle, and—l am sorry that it was so—a poorly-
filled hall.
Representative Protestants tabooed the dance
with fine religious fervor. Among those present
I did not notice Lady Darley, the vice-president
(the Mayoress), or but I could go on like this
for a long time. The Protestants who stayed
away, and the business firms who also suddenly
manifested a new religious dignity that prevented
them from subscribing to this unlucky hospital,
must have been in a large majority, for I hear that
the ball didn’t cover expenses.
By the way, surely this points pretty plainly
to the assistance given to R.C. charities in the
past by people of other faiths. Take it away
and you see how much it was. Naturally
Catholics are conscious of this. In fact I have
knocked against some strong and knifey expres-
sions from men,and women who may be regarded
as very fixed Romans indeed. It was one of these
who loudly voiced his disgust at an “At Home ”
last week by saying, “ I’d like to boil him in one
of the North Island geysers ! ”
As to the dressing, Mrs. J. T. Toohey was
m black, with diamonds. Her sister, Miss
Egan, was charmingly frocked in a pink-
flowered silk, the fichu and elbow sleeves of
pink chiffon, and chiffon flounces frilling round
the skirt. _ Miss Toohey set off her powdered
hair against a geranium-pink satin deepened
with vivid geranium flowers. Pretty Mrs. Kenna
was also poudre, and looked fetching in turquoise-
blue brocade, with a fringed polonaise over
flounces of turquoise chiffon. Mrs. Brennan (lion,
treas.) wore black satin, with a touch of violet
velvet on the corsage, and her pretty daughter
(who debuted at the Australian Club ball last
week) wore an ingenue white satin and lilies of
the valley. Mrs. John Mullins was in grey
brocade; Mrs. Collins in black. Two charming
powdered maidens were Miss Brock and Miss
Nugent. By the way, Miss Nugent marries her
cousin, Mr. T. J. Dalton, on Tuesday, October 9,
at St. Mary’s Church, North Sydney.
An attempt was made to revive the advt. cos-
tumes of the Poster Ball, but the result was
streaky. However, the handful of fancy dresses
had the advantage of being seen, and one could
not help but notice Miss Mildred Aarons—chief
bridesmaid at Miss Harris’s wedding, next week—
in a poppy-decked hat and corn-wrei tiled frock, a
charming little kharki tea-girl; and a pen-woman
in a short white frock and parasol, as the Coupon
Co.
The same night heard Elsie Hall’s first “ Duo
Recital” at the Y.M.C.A. Hall. This talented,
modest, young musician has more enterprise than
one would give her credit for. Her energy has
helped half-a-dozen charity-concerts to hum this
year. But what becomes of the house when it is
her own concert that she engineers ? Wednesday’s
concert was so highly charming that I was sorry,
for other people’s sake, to see such a thin audi-
ence. But, mind you, though thin, it was loving
and as thin things can be.
Por instance, in one row there was a “he”
novelist hoping pensively that the quiet-faced
piamste was not too cer&brale; a black-moustached
young pedagogue who shut his big eyes firmly
and frowned fierce frowns when a silk skirt rustled
or a programme fluttered; and three thin girls in
big sailor-hats over big thin noses. If you don’t
appreciate the quality of that row you are no
musician. Of course, there were a few other
people in the house, and in one sparse region of
blank seats four placarded, classified, musical
people conversated with a noise that suggested
crowds.
-Dr- Mathew Ennis, a young London musical
M.D., with a fair moustache and a reputation,
helped with the duos. There were no solos
except Miss K. McKonnel, an uncompromis-
ing soprano, of power, but little sweetness. The
two pianists started off on two pianos with a-
Bach concerto, but to- my mind they were hap-
piest m a delightful little group of Chopin
things, delightfully played—Etudes 2, 10, and 11,
and the A-ffat waltz. Both players are delicate,
feminine and light-handed. Otherwise, to make
duets °f these Chopin fancies would have been
slaughter. They also gave a tender interpretation
of oamt Saens’ Variations on a Theme of Bee-
thoven. As both pianos were lacking in the
same quality —passion—neither overplayed the
other. In its way, that is without any great
breadth or fire, their concert turned out to be
about the least tedious any local concert-goer has>
encountered since—but my memory is getting
jaded. Let us keep to the things of to-day.
By the way, some people think four hands are
too many for Chopin. Perhaps they will agree
with a man who writes well about things musical,
and says that a woman wants three hands to play
Chopin— two for the piano, and one for the man
who is listening to hold.
Speaking of music, here’s our concert menu.
Next Thursday, September 27th, Jessie King, the
English contralto, gives a concert at the Centenary
Hall, in the presence of his Ex., and assisted by
Herr Volmar. Miss Adelina de Lara comes be-
fore Sydney as a pianiste at a piano recital on
Oct. 2nd, also at the Centenary Hall. She brings
a big reputation from England. I have not heard
her yet, but if her playing is as charming as her
manner she is bound to please. Also, I could tell
you of thirty-two other concerts getting ready to
burst, but the warning is enough for to-day.
“New Babylon” at the Royal is a whirl of
frocks and wickednesses. Frances Ross, as the
twin women, gets a double share of dress, and
rings some startling notes. One of her frocks is a
glowing pink, with angel sleeves of white chiffon,
and rosettes and streamers of turquoise blue on
the corsage and in her hair, a la Nance O’Camille ;
another is a black and white giddy-looking skirt
with dashing stripes, topped with a little black
velvet coat, a big hat decked with red and purple
roses, and long black streamers. Harrie Ireland
abandons the evil contralto of her other ways at
last, and comes out as a good lady in pale green
chiffon, with white chiffon sleeves and corselet, and
the glorious auburn hair dressed simply, tied away
at the back of the head with flowing black ribbon.
Pretty Miss Fitzmaurice Gill is no longer in this
co. to fascinate with her charming villainies, and
Frances Ross and Adela Kerr now divide the
wickednesses between them. A 3 usual, Mrs.
Bland Holt comes to the rescue, and this time in
a magnificent long white cloak lined with pale-
orange ; but I like her best in her natty navy-blue
riding-habit with a red ribbon on her whip.
Arthur Styan plays the fool—remarkably well
considering the difficulty it must be. And Walter
Baker’s fatal beauty—which, by the way, is in-
clining dangerously near the full-blown just now
—plays havoc with two women’s hearts, a fate the
gods always reserve for their Walter.
At Her Majesty’s, on Saturday, a stand-up house
watched the beginning of theendof the Comic Opera
co., which goes to make room for Nance O’Neil
in “ Fedora ” next Saturday. The “ Gondoliers ”
ran merrily. All the same, it is impossible to re-
sist a sigh over some of the leading female voices,
which vary between the thin, the painfully
cracked, and the absolutely broken, and, with a
weird but mistaken devotion to each other, nearly
all warble away half a tone sharp.
By the way—but not apropos of anyone in this
co., of course—do you notice what a spirit of
philanthropy is taking root in theatre audiences?
Time was when singing and elocuting we listen to
politely, nowadays, would have been kindly,
firmly, and unmistakably hooted into the wings.
I suppose it is increased civilisation, and a more
pitiful humanity, but, after all, the pain inflicted
on the hooted ones in those bad, old, remorseless
days was nothing compared to the anguish of the
many who sit and suffer toothache in the ear, in
these awfully polite new days of ours. It is not
so very long, either, since a well-known actress had
to ring down the rag because the house would call
out “Carlo, Carlo,” and whistle, whenever hubby’s
broken English (Carlo, in “Jealousy”) drove it to
desperation.
Broken English, indeed ! And now ? Well,
now we swallow murdered English out of broken
voices, and, falling down into the very depths of
an inconceivably ghastly weakness, give them an
encore l
Returning—yes, I mean returning —to “ The
Gondoliers. Miss Chetwynd, a little newcomer
with a piquant smile, played Tessa. Her small,
piping voice won’t bear discussion, but her danc-
ing is magnetising; she acts with abandon, and
how anyone so small can sweep such wide and
willowy curtsies is something to think of after-
wards. Carrie Moore, with a fisher-blue cap
on her dark hair, sparkles demurely as Gia-
netta. Pretty Cecil Englehart, who is work-
ing off some of her stiffness, goes tamely along as
Casilda. But Jenny Opie cuts a fine figure as
the Duchess of Plaza Toro, unlimited, in white hair
dressed high, and black lace flounces over yellow
silk, and a long chinee silk train. As for the men,
Mr. Beattie gets a nightly encore for Antonio’s
song and dance and shows himself to great
advantage on his toes. Wallace Brownlow is the
same large thing of beauty in the red plush jacket
and blameless white tights of the palace scene,
and warbles away in as rich a voice as his very
best days knew about the “Ministers of Steet.”
But Kenningham’s throat-troubles hamper him
evidently, and where he cain’t get into his high
notes even with a falsetto contrivance, his round
face and persuasive smile are turned on hard to
disarm his listeners.
On Friday the “ Banjo ” opened his lecture-
season at Centenary Hall to a splendid ultra-
society house. The problem of how to dress for a
lecture, or the strife between hats-in-a-hall and
bare-shoulders-without-an-orchestra, was brushed
aside, by a much-dressed crowd, which got into
evening clothes with one accord and set up a
ripple of color all over the front seats. “ Banjo ”
wore a dress-suit and kept the house waiting just
about 15 minutes—just long enough to create the
admirable impression that the man who can ride
out carelessly into full Mauser range isn’t neces-
sarily the hero who can face an army of toupees
with straight knees.
However, at a quarter past eight he was seen
mounting the steps. He received a magnificent
welcome. The palms and flowers on the dressed-
up platform quivered with the thunder of claps
and cheers that burst out over the lecturer,
nervously clasping and unclasping his hands.
A successful writer cannot be expected to turn
into a highly successful lecturer at a bound ; and
•seeing that “Banjo” Paterson takes high rank
among Australian verse-makers one mitigates
one’s first impressions, and looks rather to the
time when a few weeks at , the business
will develope his dramatic instinct, and enable
his work to “get over the footlights.” With
such a wealth of experience at his command he is
bound to win the interest of his audiences —which,
by the way, have been consistently large and
fashionable for his three lectures to date.
What a year this has been for mourning ! One
after the other, nearly everyone in Society has
gone into black for some relative departed. The
death of Premier Lyne’s father, who passed away
last week at his Tasmanian home after a long
illness, will add another to our many mourning
families. The Premier’s intense devotion to his
father was well known. Indeed, for several
months past, whenever an opportunity offered, be
used to rush off to Tasmania for a day or two,
fearing at each visit that he was seeing his father
for the last time. By the way, Mrs. Lyne has her
own way about her share of the title. Seeing that
she meant it, her friends no longer ring the ob-
noxious “Lady” on her consistently shrinking
ear.
I have just received a copy of a fascinating-
looking publication in olive-green covers, which
turns out to be the much-talked-of “Twentieth
Century Cookery and House Decoration Book,”
by Mrs. Fred. Aronson (“Thalia” of the Sydney
Mail). Next I shall be able to tell you what
manner of a book it is inside.
About the Brisbane Poster-ball:—
Lady Lamington “ might have been anybody.” She
wore a common or garden-nurse’s frock, except that it
was of blue-and-white check and represented the dress of
the nursing staff for her Ladyship’s hobby—the New
Hospital for Women. The apron wasn’t new and had a
big ironmould on it, but the cap was French in shape and
admittedly becoming. The vice-regal visitor, Miss Bris-
coe, appeared as Heidsieek’s Champagne. Her dress was
not too effective, consisting, as it did, of a black skirt,
with gold bodice and a miniature bottle worn in the hair,
but the wearer seemed to enjoy the show immensely.
The ball was largely favored by Aboriginals.” Jimmy
Governor was there—and keeps his incognito still. No-
body was seen dancing with him, for there was just a
chance that he might have been the real thing. The
Brisbane papers have, for some reason, refrained from pub-
lishing a description of Miss Sharpe’s dress, which repre-
sented Adams’ Sweep. There was a flutter in the dove-
cotes when it was known that Adams would give a hand-
some dress to the wearer and £5O to the Hospital if his
sweep were represented, but the flutter subsided when
women recollected that such an advt. was illegal. How-
ever, the lady mentioned compromised matters by
appearing as “ A Clean Sweep ” in a smart frock em-
broidered with the name of Adams and carrying a new
broom in her hand—a distinction with no difference, surely.
Beautiful Mrs. Gilbert Wilson had a good mate in Mrs. J.
A. Robertson, regal-looking women both, and gowned
handsomely—Mrs. Wilson for Paling and Mrs. Walker’s
dressmaking establishment, and the other for Carew,
Gardner and Billington. Apropos of Mrs. Wilson, she
was a lovely woman 20 years ago with a splendid voice ;
she is just as lovely to-day, and her voice has gained a
sympathetic note, which it lacked of yore. Think of the
flower-like girls who have bloomed, and wilted long ago,
and are nothing to look at ; and they were almost
babes-in-arms when Miss Carandini was a tall slip of a
girl just going into long frocks.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Marshall Hall’s sixth concert at the Town
Hall, on Saturday afternoon, was a thing of
beauty—in a musical sense, of course—and not too
persistently good to be enjoyable. The con-
ductor’s Prelude to Alkestis, always worth hear-
ing, prepared one’s feelings for Beethoven’s Violin
Concerto in D., which radiates from an artless
tune of the tum-te-tumpty order. The effect
would have been finer but for the uneasiness of
the chief fiddler, Franz. Dierich. In between the
‘ tumpties ’ he gazed su/.piciously at his fiddle and
inclined his ear to tl/e woodwork like a doctor
listening for lung complaints. The last half of
the concert was Schubert’s symphony in C
major, the ‘magnificent joy’ whereof got a
whole page of explanation on the printed pro-
gramme. Marshall-Hall gave this masterpiece a
great character. Its charm, it seems, is so unques-
tionable that the critics of yore ‘ declared it long
and wearisome, crude in form and wanting in
science,’ and the ‘tortured critic ’ of to-day com-
plains ‘ Good God ! Not a bar of decent counter-
point.’ On Saturday a few people who didn’t look
like critics made their escape before the finish of
Schubert, so probably they went to find a point of
bar counter in the vulgar world outside. Previous
to the four-act symphony, Madame Slapoffski
gave ‘ Elizabeth’s Prayer,’ from ‘ Tannhauser,’ in
a well-trained, well-worn voice, and with just
as much dramatic earnestness as the occasion re-
quired. A platform vocalist in a matinee hat
mustn’t pray very, very hard. Madame S. (who
has not come out with her husband as a member
of the Musgrove Opera Co.) got four recalls and
three large lots of floral tributes for her trouble.
She did her best to look surprised at the f.t.’s,
though they had been ranged conspicuously along
the side of the hall before she started to sing.
“Marshall Hall is not the only example of
poetry getting a man into trouble. Another
prominent citizen seriously compromised himself
by writing a book of verses, praising the roses and
raptures of a free unfettered single life, in com-
parison with the humdrum monotony and weari-
some bondage of wedded life. This volume was
brought up and used against him, when he
subsequently wanted to marry a young lady
whose pa strongly objected to the opinions of the
rhymer. By-and-bye, however, when the bard
had bought up and withdrawn from circulation
the offending volume, and fully apologised for his
atrocious sentiments, the stern parent relented
and gave him his daughter, conditionally on his
publishing poems in praise of marriage and its
advantages.
“The other week it was stated in this part of
The Bulletin that a certain angry parent had
run away from home because his daughter was
marrying into the wrong religion. The reason
given for the hasty departure was incorrect and
unfair, it must be admitted, to paterfamilias and
other members of his family. They are on
friendly terms with both religions, and have
indeed, always shown a disregard for creed bigotry
in matters matrimonial. J
“A. novelty that went off like wildfire at the
Children s Hospital Bazaar was a purse which
opens, at a spring, to reveal a powder-puff. One
carries the fraudulent purse up the sleeve, in the
crown of the hat, or in the pouched blouse.
‘‘ Tl >e re was less fun than expected at that Town
Hall Women’s Suffrage meeting. Slight, dark,
pretty Vida Goldstein, who has spent and is
spending the days of her youth in the service of
sister Woman, looked neat in brown suit and pink
vest, and said what she had to say (nothing-
startling) in a clear, quiet, distinct voice. When
Miss Vida gets a night off from the Cause she
goes to dances in pretty frocks and annexes part-
ners galore. The only other she-speaker at the
women’s meeting was a diminutive suburban
matron, a prominent temperance leader, whose
cutty skirts bared her boots to the public gaze
and whose voice didn’t carry any distance.
Though she’s been round the world, I believe, as
a speechifying temperance delegate, oratory isn’t
her forte. At drawing-room teetotal meetings,
where she queens it as a public character, Mrs. Z.
is fond of saying: 4 Dear sisters, I know you’re
saying to yourselves, “ I have no gifts, I could
never speak like Mrs. Z. ! ” Dear sisters,
we don’t expect you to come forward. Every-
one hasn’t public talents, but be sure there’s a quiet
little corner for you to do your humble task.’ Yet
poor Mrs. Z.’s small voice is no argument against
female suffrage, for some of the men-speakers at
the same meeting were quite inaudible. When
opponents were invited to argue, only two flies
accepted the bidding to the spider’s parlor. The
first was elderly, and had a big head. I think he
said * there was plenty stuffing inside it ’ and that
he owned ‘lO in family,’ but the suffragists were
cat-calling, so I can’t be sure. The other adver-
sary was youngish, so the audience chaffed him as
a presumptuous toddler, but his courage was full-
grown, anyhow, for when a speaker asked all
those who classed their wives, sweethearts, See., as
lunatics, criminals, and sich, to hold up their
hands, his lone, lorn paw ‘trod the winepress
alone.’ The only remark of this hero, not drowned
in the row, was: 4 1 don’t wish to degrade women
to the level of men.’
44 With Parliamentary elections in view, cranks
are on the rampage. Lately a temperance elector
unbosomed himself at length to a long-suffering
candidate-to-be. 4 Neither pepper nor mustard <
shall defile my board, guiltless as it is of stimu-
lants,’ said the faddist; 4 neither shall the pure •
palates of my innocent children be vitiated by
cloves in apple-pie, ginger in melon jam or other
demon’s fare.’
“Surgeon E. M. James, formerly of Melbourne,
who died in London the other day after years of
absence from Australia, made his money (he left
£70,000) out of silver-speculation superadded to ■
medical practice. In the early sixties, he was ■
4 Resident ’ at Melb. Hospital, and when he left
that institution he became partner of the massive •
and stately Garrard. When the delicate Mar-
chioness of Normanby, wife of a former Vic.
Governor, left for England, Dr. James accom-
panied her as physician, and never returned to 1
Australia. He said he wouldn’t come back to •
Melbourne during the lifetime of his brother, who •
lived in London, and to whom he was greatly at-
tached, but his brother has outlived him. Mrs.
James is a daughter of the late John Mathieson,.
for a generation manager of the Bank of Victoria.
44 The late Dr. Bromby’s library, sold recently,
boasted some good classical first editions, but th© -■
theological works had come to be back numbers.
Deceased owner, who died some years ago, left his-
books and most of his other worldly goods to his
young widow, a buxom, dark-eyed, red-lipped
charmer, whom the grey-haired clergyman hadii
fallen in love with, as a 16-yea.r-old, in his-con- •
firmation-class.
“Apart from the disparity in years, May’s l
sphere in life was so remote from that of, Decem-
ber that Bishop, Dean and Chapter did i all they
could to avert the match. Nathless,. the rev.
lover gaed his ain gait, and was. so elated !
on his wedding-day that he left* his hat
in church and led his bonnie bride to her
carriage, careless of the fact that Winter
winds were blowing through his thin grey
hair. When his reverence died, some people said I
his literary bequests would have been more appro-
ciated by his scholarly middle-aged sons than by
his non-bookish relict, who, in due course, consoled 1
herself with an equally non-bookish mate. How-
ever, to do the legatee and her second i husband i
justice, they honored the Bromby so
long as circumstances permitted. Their house
was called 4 Brombyville ’ and no one was-prouder
of the dead Divine’s library, portraits, &c.,. than i
his matrimonial successor. But times change, th®
nursery at Bromby ville is no longer untenated I
and the old books had to go, though not -i
unregretted.
“Shoots of grey begin to show in Alfred !
Deakin’s furry head. Diplomatic wrestling with '>
Chamberlain has been a severe ordeal for a nervous
man. There are some who still remember the '
days when Deakin, as a young man, iused to wear r
his hair long, like a minor poet, and yvas suspected !
of writing verse himself. In later years no man a
has been more spick and span in his, dress and i!
general appearance.
“ Assemblies in a certain fashionable quarter -
are famous, this season, for the prodigious amount
of dark endearments that happen during intervals. •
Two long passages, on either side of the hall, are •
well-lighted in the early part of the evening, and I
provided with numerous seats. After the.second I
dance or so, there is a total eclipse; the chairs in i
those passages are rushed by couples who have *
come to stay, and thenceforth the poetic silencers s
broken only by gentle ‘glou-glou’ gurgles and !
other inarticulate suggestions of practical sym-:
pathy. _ Several engagements, temporary andJ
otherwise, have already resulted.
T other day, a well-known Melbourneite was r
left m a hansom to take care of the
baby while his (the Melb. man’s) wife went to
have a dress fitted. Cabby drove slowly up and
down Collins-street during the visit, and youngster
yelled incessantly. At length the large-hearted
cabby, opening the trap door, said to his fare
Lor love yer, sir. I could quieten ’im. I’ve got
seven of ’em myself.’ ‘For goodness sake, jump
1 ?’ “ an >’ , was the response; 4 I’ll drive the cab ! ’
And he did. —Y ours truly, Gouui-Gouli.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
For the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling rod soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
(}itiZ6ns’[|ife Jssurance Company [united.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
Bscisti'-xg Policyh.old.ers exceed 206,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Large Reserves,
Moore and Castlereayh Streets,
Sydney.
Annual Bonuses.
JOHN FARRELL,
Rksidknt Skcuktauy.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
This Hotel has popularised hotel-living- in Australia.
During our enervating summer, the cool and ele-
gant drawing rooms, the charmingly - arranged
dining room, the readiness and perfection of the
attendance, and the splendid appointments of the
Hotel throughout, prove a boon and blessing to.
visitors. The Hotel is so loftily-built and situated
that residents sleep in a distinct atmosphere--^a cool
light air, entirely free from the dust and impurity
of the city.
11. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh -st., Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Various Queenslanders propose a monu-
ment to the late Thomas M‘llwraith. What’s
wrong with the Q.N. Bank ?
John Harper, principal traffic manager of
N.S.W. railways, began life as sub-editor under
Garnet Walch, then—more than 30 years ago—
conducting a Parramatta paper.
Salomons and Barton, Q.C.’s, have brought
back “ catch ” phrases from the English Courts.
The former now says, “Will you in the court
swear, &c.,” and the latter, “Now let me ask you
this question.”
Apropos of the N.S. Wales J.P. nuisance.
A member of the Leg. Council sends around a
letter from a fashionable tailor offering to supply
him with a dress-suit gratis if the M.L.C. will
get him appointed to the Commission of the Peace.
The inevitable Wallington, who will make
his next appearance in Sydney as private sec. to
the Gov.-General, is sailing from England by the
Britannia. It would have sounded better on
Wally s part to come by the Australia, but, no
matter.
Chief-Justice Way, of S.A., is alleged to
have got himself into an even more serious official
mess than that which resulted from his secret
dodgery in connection with the Commonwealth
Bill. Details will doubtless leak out in Parlia-
ment later on.
Sydney artist A. J. Fischer, who went re-
cently to London, writes amongst other things :
“Only one thing is cheap here —Beer, and that
concerns me not. One of the chief and strongest
exhibitors at the Royal Water-Colour Society is
Australian H. S. Hop wood.”
Sculptor Bertram Maekennal visits Aus-
tralia in a few weeks, arriving about Cup time.
Maekennal will be able to admire his own bust of
Melba in the National collection, where it is finely
placed in the Stawell Gallery. He has to spend a
couple of weeks, at least, in Sydney, to execute an
English commission.
Nearly everyone in South Australia is
everyone else’s cousin or mother-in-law, or some-
thing of the sort. Sometimes this is awkward.
It was the other day, when the Advertiser had
to “ barrack ” for its old friend Kingston against
J. L. Parsons ; for only the other week pa Parsons’
son married editor - proprietor Bonython’s
daughter.
The Treriwith-Maloney squabble, in Vic.
Assembly, reached, its acute stage when the big
man “desired to point out” that the little man
“had scarcely ever adopted a method which was
calculated to bring about the objects he had in
view.” Then he went on to refer to the little
’un’s foolish proceedings in India a few years ago,
and was countered with a stinging allusion to a
matter which caused the House to cry “ Shame 1 ”
on Maloney—who, however, declared that his
allegation was true and needed ventilation.
Whei Archbishop “Yes-No” Francis
Redwood returned to M.L. from Rome, after
receiving the pallium, some of the members of his
family who met him at the railway station went
down piously on their marrow-bones to kiss his
ring. “Old Harry” Redwood was keeping in
hand a frisky tandem team, intended for the con-
veyance of his illustrious brother, and regarded
the reception most disdainfully. At la t. irritated
by the curvetting of his horses, he yelled out to
the Archbishop, “ Now then, Frank, when you’re
done with that blanky nonsense, jump up. I’m
d d if I’ll wait another minute.”
N.S.W. Chief Justice Dowling, father of
ex-District Court J udge Dowling, still resid-
ing in a Sydney suburb was a Cockney
by birth, and became intimately asso-
ciated in law matters with the illus- «
trious Lord Brougham. Though
Brougham obtained for Dowling
the appointment to the N.S.W.
Bench, he was opposed to his emi-
grating, and assured him that a
front place at the English Bar was
a certainty. But Dowling was
impatient, and preferred a new field
away from the crowded Bar of the
England of that day.
“Potjostler” : Carr-Boyd
is looking hale and hearty.
When he first landed in Eng-
land he was presented to
onti of the wags of the
Savage Club, understood
by common consent to be
the champion truth-teller
in the Thames valley.
“Bouverie-Smith, the ex-
plorer, ” repeated Carr-Boyd
bluntly, when he was intro-
duced, “ never heard of you
before.” But he was soon
convinced. The two had
been over the same
ground, from Char-
lotte Waters to
Nullagine, had
camped at the same
“soaks,” encoun-
tered the same tribes
of blacks, and all the rest.
Old Oarr believed in his new-found
mate for a long time, till he found out
that “Bouverie-Smith,” who edits an alleged
comic paper in the Strand, had been “mugging
up ” an old paper of Carr’s sent some time
previously to the R.G.S.
Dear Bulletin. —You are astray in that
personal paragraph re poet Kendall. He had a
thorough working knowledge of native trees, and
® arned his bread for years in the timber district of
Camden Haven as an employe of one of the biggest
hardwood firm , o{ those days. Moreover, K.’s
report on forest-conservation was a well-considered
and practical document. C.K.
Rt v - Dl - Cosh, who died last week at Turra-
“urra was . olie J °. f f small band who
have made Polynesian dialects a life-study. Dr.
(Josh, a Glasgow graduate, went to the New
Hebrides nearly 40 years ago, and immediately
about the study of all the languages and dia-
°* ie Seas. It was as professor of
however, that he gained distinction in
A. b. W.
Gov.-General Hopetoun was 40 years old
25th Sept. “ John Adrian Louis ” was originally
intended for the Army but embarked m politics
instead. As far back as ’B5 he was made one of
* 16 Q ueen s flunkeys, and has been getting more
prefers seeing Australians grovelling to him for a
change.
mi T > i , ■ , „ ™ i ~ ,
. , , Redei iipfonst Father I lunkett, who
died lately in Sydney, was an uncle of that Lord
Fingall who, engineered by T. H. Myring, once a
N.S.W. rabbit-inspector, dabbled first in Tas-
manian and then in Westralian mines, including
the Londonderry. The rev. father himself was
for a while in the army in India. Another mem-
her of the family is British Ambassador at
Vienna.
If “ Banjo ” Paterson wanted a testimonial
to his demeanour on the battlefield he could get it
from the Victorian Colonel Hoad. The Colonel
says that “Banjo” seemed to have no notion of
physical fear, and was constantly in the thick of
the fighting. He was also one of the most popular
correspondents on the field ; officers liked him,
a,ld tne correspondent who is popular with the
officers has a good time.
A New York gentleman h is recently gained
notoriety in London, by driving a coach-and-six
through some of the most congested streets. The
noted Bill Nash, of Sydney, did the same feat
with seven horses and a mule. Inquiries disclosed
that he was a returned “hand” from Botany
Bay, and the Home Secretary immediately
ordered his return to Sydney,
Lieut. R. J. L. White, of the Imperial
Bushmen, shot dead in action at Wonderfontein
on 12th Sept., was formerly a regimental officer of
the fgt Australian Horse; he came of a N.S.W.
Western-pioneer family, was a brother of Mrs.
Kenneth Mackay, and was but 23 years old when
he died. Mr. White, wjio had borne himself
very bravely in several engagements, was, like
AND THE GREATER OF THESE TWO
IS BEER.
ARGUMENTATIVE LOAFER : “ Which of the two do
you think has the greater influence on a man’s
career, Love or"
CYNICAL. ONE (this end): “Or Beer?”
many Australians who have fallen in this miser-
able war, made of stuff far too good to be wasted
in so squalid a cause. He was an eager and
generous boy of great artistic potentialities, and
a by no means common gift of literary expression.
His blood goes to cement yet another brick of the
prison that has been built by greedy impostors in
the name of Liberty.
TWO RUNGS FROM JACOB'S LADDER.
“Efforts are being made in England to bring the
reputed native Jews of China (said to be true descendants
of Israel) in touch with the rest of the Jews.”— NEWS
ITEM.
J OHN: “ Whaffor you no recognise tine Heblew?”
COHEN : “Oh! Isaac, mein brudder, mein long
lost brudder !”
Paris Nesbit, Q.C. (S.A.), visited Melb.
some years ago and delivered a “lecture on
Tennyson ”in the Town Hall. When he had got
to the middle of a very discursive address, he
exclaimed “Oh, the flowers that bloom in the
Spring, tra-la-la ! We will now all adjourn for a
drink.” On returning to the platform after the
lapse of 15 minutes, the moderate audience had
dwindled to the hall-keeper and a reporter on the
look-out for a comic par.
Paris Nesbit identifies himself with Jesus
Christ now The Adelaide Q.C. is a striking per-
sonality. He has a surplus of inches over Oft.,
and his big frame is crowned with a particularly
handsome face. Quite a number of the democratic
measures in 8. A. Statute-Book were conceived in
Nesbit’s brain. He is a fervid supporter of Coun-
cil reform, although latterly he has made blazing
attacks upon Kingston, present leader of the re-
form movement. Nesbit advocated law-reform, too,
including the appointment of a permanent Crown
Defender in criminal cases. And in the latest
issue of his paper, Morning, he admits love affairs
(among the M’s only !) with one Mary, two Mar-
garets, one Mabel (semi-platonic), one Martha,
and some three, or four, or five Mauds. So it’s
pretty mean of him to be denouncing Kingston’s
relations with women. Nesbit’s paper, Morning,
is a treasure to students of megalomania. For
example, watch his Ego parade in his answer to
the medical superintendent of Parkside Asylum:—
I do not remember saying that I was head and
shoulders above everyone else in Adelaide in intellect;
but if I did say so I submit that,, though it may have
shown that I was very conceited, it dal not show that I
am. insane. Many persons of much ability have said
much the same thing, or used expressions which mean
much the same thing, as, for instance, Mr. David Blair, a
friend and contemporary of Henry Pa. kes and of Daniel
Deniehy, who told my wife some years ago, as I was in-
formed by her and believe, that I had the finest intellect
in Australia, and told Mrs. Lane, of the Argus Hotel, in
Melbourne, as 1 was informed by her and believe,
that my conversation was divine; Dr. Boulger, who
told Mr. Wharton, now the editor* of the Cum-
berland Times, as I am informed by him and
believe, that I had the brightest and keenest
intellect of any man he had ever met; Mr. Sowden,
leader-writer for the Register, who, I believe, is the
author of a statement in the Kapunda Herald that I
am a giant physically and mentally ; Frederick Robert-
son, leader-writer for the Advertiser, who wrote to me :
“ Interested as an Australian native myself in watching
your brilliant career, I cannot but feed that you are one of
those men of whom these young States may well be proud.
With natural talent of a high order, and broad and liberal
culture, you combine a large and healthy patriotism,
qualities which give value to the public services you
render, and will, I hope, before long be exer-
cised in a wider sphere.” Henry Alierdale Grainger,
who, as I was informed by a friend (I believe it
was the Honorable John Alexander Oockburn, but am
not sure), and as I believe, told him there was only
one genius in South Australia, and that was Nesbit.
James Hague, senior member for Barossa, who, shortly
after I was discharged from the North-terrace Asylum,
against the wish and opinion of one Dr. Allan Campbell,
said publicly, in my presence at an election meeting, that
he knew no man so well qualified to do credit to South
Australia in the Federal Convention as Mr. Nesbit. The
Right Honorable Samuel James Way, who, as I am in-
formed bv the Honorable John Hannah Gordon and be-
lieve, said that I was a closer reasoner than Mr. Symon.
The Rev. Charles Marson, who told my cousin, Edith
Nesbit, the Poet, as I am informed by her and believe,
that I was the most distinguished man in South Australia.
The Honorable John Hannah Gordon, who has said in
my presence that I was one of the ablest men in the
Southern Hemisphere. My sister, Mrs. Benham, who has
said in my presence that I am like Gulliver among the
Liliputians ; and Mr. Harold Desbrowe Annear, of Mel-
bourne, Architect Associate of the Royal Institute of
Victorian Architects, who told Mr. John Longstaff, the
celebrated painter, in my presence, that I was in Adelaide
a giant among pigmies ; and other persons too numerous
to mention. And I humbly submit that, if I am to be
kept in confinement, the said David Blair, Dr. Boulger,
Mr. Sowden, Frederick Robertson, Henry Alierdale
Granger, James Hague, the Right Honorable Samuel
James Way, Rev. Charles Marson, John Hannah Gordon,
and Harold Desbrowe Annear, and the said Mrs. Benham,
and the said other persons too numerous to mention, should
for tlie sake of consistency be sent here to keep me com-
pany. I did not say that my said translations were superior
to the originals, but that the workmanship thereof was on
the whole equal to that of the originals, and that some
verses were better. I have a better instrument than
Goethe or Schiller had, in that English is a stronger and
better language than German. Mr. Addison, a German
scholar, who says that the translation of “The Descent
into Hell,” written by Goethe, is sublime, and transcends
the original ; by Mr. Philip Falk, who says it is sublime ;
by Mr. Siekmann, a German, who says it is magnificent;
by Mr. Rupert Ingleby, a German scholar, who says that
my translation of Schiller’s “ Gods of Greece ” is better
than the original; and by Mr. Alfred Loeser, a German,
who says that my translations sounded better than the
originals. Even if lam mistaken in thinking that my
translations are good, I humbly submit that the conceit of
an author is no reason for locking him up in a lunatic
asylum.
Great Nesbit! ! !
Dr. Perry, appointed
first Bishop of Melbourne in
’4B, was good to his en-
tourage. Most of the
young men who accom-
panied him to Yiotoria
did well in the church ;
and he made his Eng-
lish coachman a school-
master.
Governor Clias.
Hotham (Vic.) was a
naval captain. When he
visited Bendigo in ’53
an ex-man-o’-war’s-man
in digger’s garb went up
to him and roared “ Tip
us yer flipper, old t oy—•
shake ! ” His Ex. shook,
but the starch in iiis
collar crackled audibly.
Mainly about S. A.'s
boss millionaire:
J. H. Angas, cattle and sneep
Dreeuer, philanthropist and millionaire, is one of
Australia’s richest men. When George An gas
practically “ founded” S.A. in ’36 he sent out the
future millionaire to manage his estate, now one
of the largest and most valuable in S.A. The Angas
family also founded the S.A. Co., which has been reaping
fat dividends from the land-toilers for 65 years. When
old George Angas died he provided in his will that
£lO,OOO a year should be spent in charity, and much of
this has gone in founding scholarships at Adelaide Uni-
versity. J. H. Angas is now 77 years old.
An Australian hero whose life was saved
ifi the time-honored fashion, when the Bible his
mother gave him turned a Boer bullet from his
heart, recalls a couple of similar instances. Melb.
Detective Mercer owed his life to his police regu-
lation notebook, when fired at by burglars and
badly wounded ; while (listen to this !) a youthful
burglar brought down by another Melb. detective
was protected from an otherwise fatal pistol-shot
by a packet of indecent French cards !
It is stated that Attorney-General Gor-
don’s conversion to support a modified Household
Suffrage for S.A. Leg. Council and his acceptance
of office in the Holder Govt, were actuated by a
desire to make his claim for the Chief-Justiceship
certain should Way be removed to the Imperial
High Court of Appeal or’be made Lieut.-Gov. of
S.A. This ambition is also held to explain Gor-
don’s definite announcement that he will not have
anything to do with the Federal elections.
The Social Purity Party in Wellington
(M.L.), are bitter over George Fisher’s re-election
in the teeth of the combined opposition of them-
selves and the Tories. Fisher, who has ever been
the “black beast” of Wellington journals, is
always to the fore in opposing any weakening of
the libel laws. So A. R. Atkinson—an “ Oxfawd ”
grad.—the rising hope of the S.P. party, has
actually circulated a draft libel bill, intitled “An
Act to prevent the truth being spoken about
George Fisher.”
When Henry Kendall was a young man
and articled clerk to a solicitor, at Grafton,
N.S.W., he undertook to deliver a lecture at tlie
local School of Arts. He went to much trouble in
preparing his address, and the preliminaries over,
faced an expectant audience. Through “stage-
fright ” he was utterly unable to speak a single
word, and stood on the platform dumb-founded.
After a painful pause, attorney Michael, who was
in the chair, walked up to him, told the dazed
young fellow that he had better postpone the ad-
dress, and sympathetically filled the breach with
a short lecture himself. Kendall’s speech was
never delivered.
A brother-medico obituarises the lafcd Dr.
Gray, of Vic. Health Department:
B.: Died September 18, aged 47, Dr. Tom Gray, of Vic.
Health Department—best of fellows and most tactful of
officers —Oft. 2in., 18st., and apparently good for 100 years.
But acute pneumonia cum overwork proved too much for
even his robust constitution. Well-known and liked
all over the State, Gray’s consummate tact and know-
ledge of the world smoothed over innumerable difficulties
with municipalities, and he had an irresistible way of
“blarneying” stubborn councillors into reason. In fea-
tures and build he was extremely like John L. Sullivan,
and when that truculent celebrity arrived in Melbourne
some years ago an admiring crowd followed Gray about
for hours, with occasional outbursts of cheering. Prog-
nathous persons slapped him on the back, and
told him that he’d lick a room-full of champions,
and, after many vain disclaimers, the doctor was fain to
take refuge in a shop whence he escaped over the back
fence, while the self-appointed retinue waited patiently
in front and commented upon the champion’s unnecessary
modesty. The resemblance did not stop at externals, by
the way, for, as a student, Gray was such a noted boxer
that Tom Ball, the Edinburgh" fistic mentor of his day,
implored him to go into the ring professionally. Indeed,
despite his normally gentle disposition, Gray had the true
fighting spirit backed by an abnormally powerful and
active physique. Moreover, he was a Liverpool man—
and there they make ’em tough. Gray had a distinguished
professional career. Soon after his qualification he had
charge of a big small-pox outbreak in the Isle of Man,
and made a name for himself over it. Then after a
period of sea-service with the Orient Co., he joined the
Immigration service and soon became Super, of Tas. Im-
migration Department, holding in addition many other
important appointments in connection with lunacy and
public health matters. In 1892 he became Assistant
Medical Inspector of Vic., and had he lived would almost
certainly have become Govt. Medical Officer on the
approaching retirement of Dr. Shields. A proposal is on
foot to erect a memorial over his grave.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
The NATIONAL DRINK of AUSTRALASIA.
It possesses TONIC properties that healthfully stimulate without
exciting.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE.
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking
The Perfect Sheep-Marker- BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
Aboriginalities.
“ Uloola ” on women workers :
Writer’s mother is now (at 50) a confirmed invalid,
through “ working like a horse ” in early life. Cutting
bundle-wood, loading it, and carting it to Sydney (10
miles in this case) was commonly women’s work in those
days. Sometimes they would get bogged, have to partly
unload, take the rest on to firm ground, and go back for
the remainder; and this would sometimes happen several
times on the trip in wet weather. Think of the present-
day female weed of the Australian cities essaying that
sort of thing I Then in starting cultivation in timbered
country, grubbing, “breaking up,” and hauling the logs
together for “ burning off ” was all women’s work. And,
in between times, they reared families of up to 16
children t
A Far Back picture :
Struck a boundary-rider’s hut out West lately and,
hearing a kiddie’s voice shouting lustily somewhere
about, I went round to the back and found a 5-year-old
nipper chained by the waist to a brigalow sapling, and
amusing himself with an old Epsom-salts box and eight
bottles yoked-up to it for bullocks. The youngster was
flogging away at the bottles and his language was steep
—even for out-back. He stopped for a moment, cursed
at me vigorously, and resumed his “ driving.” I cantered
along a bit and met the nipper’s mother, axe on shoulder,
coming out of the scrub. Told me th’ old man
was away on th’ fence and she’d been cuttin’
scrub for th’ milkers. At the hut, while she was cutting
down a sheep in a manly sort of way, I asked her why
she kept the kid chained up. “ Blime ! ” said the lady of
the mulga, gripping the butcher’s knife between her
teeth, “ ’cause I ain’t got no time ter shepherd ’im. But
he’s all right, you bet. There ain’t no flies on him, my
oath I Well, g’da.v, mate, I’ve got couple o’ panels o’
fencin’ to fix up fer lie old man, an’ I’m in a hellofa-
msh ! ” Rural simplicity with a vengeance I ”
* • * *
S: The Bulletin does not deal much in the
average infantile smartness as literature, but this
“TRADE FOLLOWS THE FLAG.”
It all made him feel quite at home. The last hours of the Rev. J. Smith,
of Birmingham, missionary, deceased.
is a kid anecdote with a difference. We were in
an open drag serving as a coach between a new
alluvial field and a small mining town, and the
driver, being late, was sending his horses at a
smart pace up a long rise. It was night, the nar-
row track was cut through thick bush, on either
side rose clear black walls of clustering white-
gum, and before us, on the apex of the rise, hung
an enormous yellow moon seeming so close that 1
fancied one might almost have cracked its lumin-
ous face with a stone. Opposite me sat a miner’s
wife with a delicate-looking child of about six in
her arms. I noticed the youngster staring
amazedly at the moon, and then she hid her face
in her mother’s breast with a vague expression of
terror. A few seconds later smash went the drag
into a stump, and over went the show. The first
words I heard were the whimpering of the child :
“ Oh, mummer. I knew we’d run into the moon ! ”
* * * *
Concerning Bundaburra, a well-known
sexagenarian Forbes (N.S.W.) aboriginal, there are
numerous yarns. The Forbes police were anxious
to catch the publicans who sold drink to the abo-
rigines, and a constable, meeting Jacky with a
cargo in, offered him half-a-crown to tell where he
had got the liquor. “Half-a-crown,” said Jacky,
as he took the coin, “ Why I wouldn’t put poor
old Mrs. Brown away for a quid 1 ” Another time
Jacky was “ up” for drunkenness and “righteous,”
and the P.M. gave him a week. “A week?”
echoed the astonished Jacky. “Can’t do it,
boss—haven’t got time. I’ve got a job to go to
down the Lachlan to-morrow. He had to find
the time, however.
• * * *
Concerning the tribulations of S. Aus.
farmers, this is from the obituary notice of one
Kluake, a well-known up-north agriculturist :
“ He had his reverses. He sowed GOOac. with wheat for
three years in succession without getting a grain at
harvest time.”
* • * *
Up Albury way, recently, while some
“ converted ” Chows were at church for the first
time, their store was gone through and £5O stolen.
Those Johns are now very dubious concerning
“ Gawspil matters.”
* * * *
“Peter K.” : To “ H. J. Mac” (8.,
15/9/’00). The increase in number of gulls at
Lakes George and Bathurst is not due to breeding,
for gulls will never “ sit ” far from the sea-shore.
What attracts the birds is the presence of a
peculiar sand-fly, for the gull of the Australian
region lives almost wholly upon insects, and this
sand-fly is a rare dainty. If “H.J.M.” will
watch he will find that the birds arrive and depart
in flocks ; that the flock will stay only a few days,
and that as soon as a fresh crowd comes the first
ot clears out.
“Barney Bul-
lock”: The station-
hands who are
unable to doctor
themselves success-
fully look to the
squatter for advice
and medicine. The
average bushman
owns a collection
of alleged medical
works which make
a speciality of ner-
vous debility, and
which he lias re-
ceived gratis from
the “World-Re-
nowned Specialists,
Brown and Smith.”
He studies these,
books, and is al-
ways ready to diag-
nose and treat any
disease which
comes his wav.
When the result is
unsatisfactory the
patient goes up to
the boss and details
his symptoms, and
the boss acts ac-
cording to the mul-
titude of his
wisdom or the
teachings of his
own debility-book.
A boundary-rider
Suffering from
things in general
went up to the
homestead a few
evenings ago for a
cure. Mr. Stay the
was not at home,
but Mrs. Smythe
suggested that per-
haps she could be
of service. She prescribed certain pills and
a drink of hot tea. He obeyed, and got
much worse. His mates decided that a wrong
medicine had been given, and as the pills were
injurious, they would administer an emetic.
Salt and water were tried and proved ineffective ;
next a large dose of soap and water was given ;
then a rope was tied round the patient’s shins anil
he was suspended from a rafter on the verandah
with results highly satisfactory. You may not
find the highest of medical skill in the bush, but
by the aid of |oap and water, a rope, and his
debility book Clancy of the Overflow-of-Beer
pulls through many difficulties.
* • * •
“H.G.” to “Critic” (8., 28/7/’00) : I
have seen hundreds of bullocks, teamsters, &c.,
&c., on the roads, and have noted that during the
greater part of the journey they drive from which-
ever side the team happens to cast its paltry
shadow on. Dust and a blinding out-back sun
will send the poor wretches anywhere. Once saw
a bullocky drive his team from neither side, but
from the bar of a bush pub. He gurgled out (un-
consciously) the nasal and necessary curses
at “Sheet-o’-bark,” “Viper,” “Bloogum,”
“Thistle,” &c., &c., during intervals of “putting
down” his two long beers —then went out and
found the waggon half-a-mile down the road.
The bullocks heard him.
•e• * •
Dear Bulletin. —Can any of your readers
explain the decay of the myall and yarran ? Hun-
dreds of square miles of the Western black-soil
country are strewn with the dead trunks and
branches -of these valuable trees. They have
neither been cut nor ring-barked, but, with roots
exposed, lie on the surface as though blown down
by a hurricane.—D.B.
* * • •
“H.G.” : Heard a farmer state that he
had grown a cauliflower which, without its leaves,
scaled 531 b. Has any Bulletin reader known a
cauli. to go much above half this weight ? [Now,
ye cabbage and pumpkin perjurers !]
* * # *
“R.W.S.” : Have just seen a cow swal-
low a pair of curtains and am told that she has
also eaten three pairs of trousers and sundry
sheets and handkerchiefs. Every washing day
she has to be locked up, or else something “goes.”
“ Matabele ” : Re fire-
making by blacks. Have
never seen Australian
blacks at it, but in Rho-
desia I have at times been
entirely dependent on my
Malaka boys’ ability in
that line. A pointed stick
of dry hardwood pressed
firmly into a hole in a
piece of dry softwood by
one boy is rapidly twirled
by a second, who pulls
alternate ends of a piece
of string, passed once
round it. A little pow-
dered grass or dust out of
a pod found on anthills
worked into the junction
of the two woods smokes,
and, with a little blowing,
burns in from 3min. to
smin. The use of the
string (quickly worked out
of mimosa bark) gives
about five times the pace
possible when using the
hands only, and pace is
everything. In cases of
no fire after about smin,
work, have seen boys
throw away the sticks and
start again with fresh
ones.
• * *
“Ya.rrurn”: I think
the bark-stripping by par-
rots and galalis is done to
keep out insects, which
breed under the bark. JAs
for the goanna, I have
seen one high up in a
dead gum-tree, the trunk
of which for 6ft. up was
worn smooth as glass by
cattle rubbing, and I have
also seen one run up a
spout that was worn
quite slippery by young-
sters slithering down it for years. Ik® r ®‘
moval of the bark, therefore, would not block
the goauna, though it keeps the nests free from
wood-bugs and other “ not-wanteds.”
* * * *
“Via”: Re climbing. If “ Derford ”
(B. 28/2/’00) wants a hair-raiser, let him visit
Hawkesbury River at the telegraph-line crossing
just after a big break. Big mast there stands
85ft., (two poles stepped) and no nig. up to date
can be persuaded to ascend with the climbing
ropes. Journey up takes 40 mins, for good line-
repairer. On the Burdekin, (N.Q.) crossing, the
pole is 73ft., and I saw a nig. refuse £1 to take a
wire up (after the line-man had slipped and
strained himself.) King Billy earnestly remarked :
“ B’pose slip lika tha pfeller and breakim cobra
(head) me no catch’em tha pfeller cabawn (good)
twenty chillen by-in-bye no fear.”
* * * *
After this, from “ F.A.R.,” the climbing
nigger will be given a rest: —
Re Australian aboriginals climbing trees by cutting
notches and using' a vine as support. I have often seen
a black in New England mount a stringy-bark and strip
six or eight 10ft. sheets of bark off it, having his gin to
steady them as they slipped off, to prevent splitting
through falling backward. Again, the Clarence, Rich-
mond and Tweed blacks are splendid climbers, their
children being taught to climb from infancy. Mustering
cattle once, on an Upper Richmond station, we had been
out from daylight, with nothing to eat, when the collie
dogs hunted a big iguana up a tree which, having had its
bark peeled by lightning, was as smooth as glass. The
tree was about GOft. high, yet one of the black boys, hav-
ing stripped himself naked and using the whip-thong as a
“ vine,” followed the goanna right up to the top, caught
him by the tail, and jerked him off, when the others soon
had him on a fire, and all hands had a good feed. This
was accomplished without the aid of notches.
* * * *
“Gar” : “A 4-acre patch on a Hawkes-
bury (N.S.W.) farm last season produced over 220
tons of water-melons averaging 501 b. in weight,
the largest beinp 721 b. Quality excellent, yet
grower only received ss. per doz. all round. Sub-
sequently heard that buyer resold at 255. per doz.
AN UP-TO-DATE
PROBLEM.
AUSTRALIAN
TROOPS ( to Boer
at window):
“ Better eome out
and surrender.”
BOER: “ All right.
But, tell us -
how y'er yetting Hong with the Breelong
murderers? ”
MISS UNA BOURNE, the Gifted Young Victorian Pianiste.
Photographed for The Bulletin by Falk (Melb.)
“ Wayback ” (B. 28/2/’00) is
surprised at drunks in backblocks. He wouldn’t be
if lie found (as I did) a publican in the act of
nailing a quarter twist of “sheepwash” tobacco
inside of a 10-gal rum-keg prior to despatching it
to the bush races up creek. No wonder men die
of D.T’s.
* * * *
A miner made a “spread” for the mis-
sionary newly-arrived upon the Mambare gold-
field, Papua. The good man duly asked a blessing
on the food, and at the conclusion the miner, feel-
ing he was called upon to say something, solemnly
ejaculated, “ Hear, hear ! ”
* * * *
“ H.S.” to The Bulletin
A much-needed move was Mr. Kethel’s recent deliver-
ance fn N.S.W. Leg. Council about the urgent necessity
for the “ better protection and conservation of the State
Forests and the re-afforesting of the bare and depleted
areas with indigenous and exotic timber-trees.” It’s not
hard to forecast the result of the reckless timber-destruc-
tion that has so long been going on. Valuable Crown-
lands clothed with fully-developed and highly-marketable
timber have been sold and leased for a mere trifle,
enriching the few at the expense of the million, fattening
tile private speculator and impoverishing the State
resources. A law is needed compelling every holder of
purchased land to plant at least one acre of timber trees
for every 100 acres lie owns; the trees to be chosen by the
Forestry Department and supplied by Govt. ; temporary
exceptions to be made where the land is naturally
timbered.
• * • •
“ A.P.R.” : City friend Jimmy on sodden
dampers : —“The fust damper I ever cooked wus
a reg’lar thunderstriker. I rolled it outside —it
wus too heavy to lift. Some birds come along
soon an’ started pickin’ it, but they got their
beaks stuck, an’ couldn’t get ’em out. I caught
those birds. I caught 25 birds the same way that
day. Then a tribe uv ants come along an’ started
carryin’ away crumbs. After goin’ about three
inches all those ants stopped an’ wiped the sweat
off their brows with bits uv grass. One uv them
took a fit and then they all cleared out. I used
that damper fer a doorstep when it got dry.”
In the early ’Bo’s a C.Q. squat-
ter, through scarcity of labor, decided
to team his own wool to the nearest
railway. On the first day he passed
a number of teamsters, spelling under
a tree, who invited him to “Come
and have some tea, mate.” “ I’m no
mate of yours,” said the squatter —
“ I’m a gentleman driving my own
team ! ” —and he passed disdainfully
on. A mile or two further the gen-
tleman-teamster got bogged, and pre-
sently the teamsters he had passed
earlier caught him up. “My good
men,” he begged, “kindly help me
out of this mess.” “We ain’t no
good men! ” said one of them.
“We’re gentlemen a-driving our
own blanky teams! ” And they
drove.
Beyond Drummond Range, C.Q., the
goats that swarm about railway-fettlers’ camps take
fits of unrest at intervals and clear out, one and
all, travelling always to the East. So well is this
understood that owners in search of their strayed
“ kerosene-tin push ” never dream of looking west
of their camps.
* » * *
“Pelican ” : Not generally known that a
curlew can be mesmerised, paralysed—what you
will—by riding fast around it in diminishing
circles. As you get close, the bird will squat
down so that you can pop off your horse and
grab it.
THE BOOZER’S TIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Say, mister,” said the boozer, as he shook his empty
glass,
“ I guess you ought to do a roarin’ trade ;
I notice all the fellers have a drink before they pass,
No doubt a power of money should be made.”
The pubby looked important as he stroked his waistcoat
down,
He said : “ Of biz. I doesn’t want to speak,
But we’ve got near all the custom of this sleepy little
town,
And we use a dozen ’ogs’eads in the week ! ”
“ But, mister,” said the boozer, “you’ve to learn a bit, I
see,”
And lie watched the empty pewter like a cat ;
“ By filling up my measure you can get a tip from me
How to sell, I think, a dozen more than that ! ”
The pubby filled the pewter, and the boozer drained the
cup,
Then unsteadily he ambled to the door,
*• When yer servin’ liquor, mister, fill the blanky glasses
up !
And that’s the way to sell a dozen more ! ”
ROBERT ALLAN.


N
TH€ “Fx« R” WATCHES.
25/6
“ The Most
Extraordinary Watch
of the Age . ”
THE movements are on the Lever principle.
THEY have Brequct overcoil balance springs.
THEY are Jewelled in 10 holes.
THEY have compensated and adjusted
balances.
THEY have ruby roller jewels.
THEY are dust-proof and WATERTIGHT.
THE Cases SCREW together.
. THEY are specially made tostand rough riding
I and knocking about, and go with profound
accuracy.
THEY are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept
in order (breakages excepted) for 2 years.
THEY are 25/6 each in Gent.’s Open Face
Oxidised Cases, and 42/- in Gent.’s Open
Face Sterling Silver Cases.
THEY are made in every style of case.
FAIRFAX and ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers, 23 Hunter St., Sydney.
hats. HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes titted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Stkeet, BRISBANE.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Joseph Bosisto, formerly M.L.A. for
Richmond (Vic.), used to tell some queer stories
of “Flash Jack’s’’-party of bushrangers in Rich-
mond and Hawthorn in ’52 and ’53. Bosisto, in
’52, went from Adelaide to Richmond to open a
chemist s shop. But he couldn’t get a house, and
so engaged the stable of the Star and Garter
Hotel at the corner of Waltham-street. One
night a man, with a pistol in each hand, ran into
“ Bos.’s ” “shop,” from which Bos., without asking
any nasty questions, ran out and away towards
the police-station. Presently he heard horse-
hoofs after him pell-mell, and he was soon run
down by a trooper who stopped him. Bos. said
he hadn’t been doing anything, and asked what
was up, anyhow ? The trooper wanted to know
why he was running ? Bos. said he was putting
space between himself and an armed bushranger.
“ That’s the cove I want,” says the trooper, and
back the pair went to Bos.’s drug-stable. But the
bushranger was gone, and hadn’t taken either pills
or money. He had just run into
cover among Bos.’s bottles from
the pursuing bobby.
NAUTICAL ITEM.
SMALL BOY: “Hey,
Bill, what company
does this craft belong to with
the black funnel? ”
“Fortuna”: Re “bush surgery.” I
knew of a small pig that had been so badly gashed
by a big one that its liver protruded from the
wound. The owner pushed the liver in, and
stitched up the wound, but a week later he found
the wound opened up, with the liver again sticking
out, and, in the exposed part, mortified. A bush
“doctor” then cut off the protruding part,
stitched up the wound, and the animal recovered.
* * * *
“Well, Pat,” said the priest, “and how
did the crushing go ? ” “ Well, yer revenue, some
av the shtone wint purty well, an’ some av it wint
damn bad ; but we’ve saved the sand, an’ we’re
goin’ to send it down to the Footscray metalogical
works to get it consecrated.”
* * * •
“Imray”: Does “TheM‘Cooey” know
anything about some Murray cod having a
greenish-colored circle round the eye pupil, and
others having a golden yellow one ? There are
other distinctions in the shape of the head and
markings on the back, and fishermen always speak
of them as two different sorts.
* * * *
“H.Gr.”: Recently witnessed a curious
poultry-yard incident. Two cocks were having
a fight, when No. 1 managed to put his spur
through neck of No. 2, and, being unable to extract
it, hung head-downwards till No. 3 came up and
settled No. 1 by spur through head.
* * 9 •
'Scotty ” : “ Yril ” (8., 12/7/’00), Belgian
and French-made chokebores are marked “ Aon
pour balle.” A wire cartridge might burst the gun
near the muzzle just as a 12 bullet will burst a
weak barrel “choked ” down to 14.
* * . V *
“ C.L.M.” : Should like “ W.D.V.” (8.,
8/9/’00) to let me know the bore of the gun with
which he made the shot recorded. Also maker’s
name and the loading of cartridges. I have used
many guns, but one that will drive a single No. 1
pellet to break a turkey’s wing and kill at 130
yards is a bit of a miracle.
* * * *
‘Yril”: Re wire-cartridges and choke-
bore guns:—
I used to be very successful at trap-pigeon-shooting
with a heavenly c.b. ; but, having on one occasion lent il
to a friend, was astonished at how the gun performed—
with him—kicking like a mule and missing every bird.
Every time he fired I heard the unmistakable “ zung ” of
a heavy body in motion, and, if the bird was low, there
was a spurt-up of dust beyond the traps. He re-
turned the gun to me (blood flowing freely from a kick-
cut on cheek-bone) with the verdict—“ I don’t think
much of her ; and, Lord, how she does kick !” “ What
cartridges ?” I asked. “My own. Loaded ’em myself;
3J drachms powder and ljoz. No. 4 shot—wire-cartridges.
I reckon I ought to have smashed every bird.” And so
he would—if he’d hit them ! ”
* * * »
“Pelican ’ : Re the fatal curiosity of
birds. Water-hens in undisturbed country can
always be draivn from a reed-bed if you sit down
and make a strange noise, by, for instance, knock-
ing two. bones together. Have had them walk up
to within a few yards.
* * * •
“P-”: Asked a man the other day what
the country up towards and in Orange Free State
is like ; for he is a good back-country Australian
who knows country when he sees it. “We were
tired out,” he said, “and, going by train, slept
till Bin the morning, and so got well into the
Karroo. Then a fellow-traveller put his head up
over the truck-side, looked round the country,
rubbed his eyes, looked again, and said ‘ Oh,
Hell! ’ And there you have the average Aus-
tralian’s idea of it.” If it weren’t for the police-
work, he says, we shouldn’t need to trouble much
about losing our bushmen.
* • • •
A certain pressman once started a com-
mission - agency in a Northern town. His
“ colonial experience ” was limited, and the local
wags soon found this out, and began placarding
absurd notices on his window. One day he would
have for sale “ 2000 wethers, heavy in lamb,” or
“1500 " ooth ewes.” The next day, it would be
“200 speyed bulls,” and so on. At last, he
packed his trunk in disgust.
“\P.H.C.” : “ Coolawine ” (8., 21/7/'00)
is undoubtedly the aboriginal name for the native
bear, always so-called by the blacks of Wollumbi
district. In fact, there is in said district a place
called “Coolawin”—meaning, I am told by the
blacks, “big bear,” on account of the former local
abundanoe of these animals.
* # * »
All the talk about what mules can do in
the rough parts of S’Africa has set the wealthy
owners of Momba (far western N.S. W.)
experimenting with the same animals.
Momba (N.S. Wales’s biggest sheep
run) is out-back from droughty
Wilcannia; and as Wilcannia
is on a river which is nowadays
mostly dry, the only way be-
tween Momba and the world is
via Broken Hill. So far com-
munication hasbeenmaintained
even in the worst of weather by
camels, which are bred on the
station ; but it is inconvenient
to shift greasy wool with them.
Hence the mule experiment.
Barr Smith, one of Adelaide’s
reputed millionaires, is about
the biggest holder in the Momba
co. ; but its real ruler is Peter Waite,
the late Thomas Elder’s pastoral
adviser.
Before Minister O’Sullivan had N.S.W.
State Treasury to draw upon he once proposed—
it was in a bad drought—to win fame by cannon-
ading rain from passing clouds. In Broken Hill
the thing was, in fact, actually tried under the
supervision of an artilllery-officer now serving in
S’ Africa. It failed. Interesting, therefore, to
learn that numerous associations are being formed
among land-owners in Italy to carry out the idea
more systematically ; and not only to precipitate
rain, but also to prevent threatened hailstorm
MADAME ADELINA DE LARA (Mrs. Thus.
Kingston), the Eminent English Pianiste,
who gives a Concert at Sydney Centenary
Hall, Oct. 2.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
The London and Foreign Bible Society
was not long ago jubilant over the great demand
for bibles in an in j anc i district in China. But later-
on came the gruesome discovery that, as said
district is a centre of the shoe-making industry,
the Word was being freely used as sole (not soul)
“leather”.
Miss Una Bourne is probably destined to
be the first Australian pianiste to make a brilliant
Europe The prodigy, Frit,
Mueller, vigorously advertised at the time of the
“ little Miss Castles ” furore, will achieve celebrity,
no doubt, but he will always rank as a German,
notan Australian, in his native hemisphere. Una
Bourne, the South Melbourne girl, has never been
P, llt before the P u , blk in th ,® cbarac , ter pf a young
phGnonionoii, and. it w&sn t even her luck to be
anyway “ little ” when she appeared at the first of
the Amy Castles benefit concerts. Three years
younger than Amy aforesaid, she advanced no
claim to special consideration on account of her
J° Uth f Be T'° wf r elc whotook upthetui-
tion of the damsel in ’9(5 (previous to then she had a
careful training from her sister), lays stress upon
the fact that his pupil’s success has been legiti-
niately earned. Una Bourne is a 17-year-old
artist of admitted talent and exceptional promise ;
sbe }, as done fine hand and brain work at
Scherek’s orchestral concerts—work that showed a
steady improvement as the months went on ; and
she is now fully qualified to go forth and develope
her talent—genius—in the musical circles of the
Old World. The date of her departure is not
fixed, nor has there been any newspaper talk of
farewell concerts for brainy, unpretentious Miss
Una, hut she is certainly going, and she will go to
the front of her profession in due course.
VERY POINTED.
BUYTER : “I said I wanted a horse with some
points about him.”
MIKE: “ Well, I rode him over, and I can tell
yez fer a fact that he’s full of points.”
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ivill be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu -
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case ivill MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Red Tape : But the N.S.W. soldiers in Africa
are no more “volunteers” than the British. They are
paid men. And a soldier is not supposed to hand in his
resignation when he darned well pleases and settle down
in the conquered country. He is supposed to come back
and be formally disbanded W. G. M‘K. : Some good
points, but not enough good points... .Constant Reader :
Can’t throw any light on it... .H.N. : We decline to ad-
vertise you, especially as your plague-letter is only a weak
ilishing-up again of “ Puyakka’s ” on the same subject in
a recent Bulletin Monaro : Would like to see local
newspaper report re that Progress Committee A.D.M.:
It seems the trouble mostly rose through the parties get-
ting mixed up with private trustees in the first place. It
was the private trustees who put their money into Federal
Bank shares... Subscriber : Impossible to say what was
the biggest tote dividend ever paid at a race-meeting.
The world is large and race-meetings numerous. Other
question also hard to answer... .Tim B. : “ Lead us not.”
We weren’t led Het. T. : Better get a pulpit of your
own J.J.B. : Argument too scholastic. Between
the schools and journalism there’s a gulf fixed
F.A.L. : “ Anybody ” can’t write verses ; it takes
Somebody. And you’re apparently nobody
Frank L. : The legality of a marriage performed by a
clergyman depends not on whether his church
recognises him but on whether the Law recognises
■him as entitled to celebrate marriages. .
P.T.Mc. : That barrister’s religion is much the same as
Waxellency Madden’s, we’re thinking. Ifis Wax seems
t o be a sort of R.C. Protestant, with leanings in all direc-
tions Quilp : “ Song of Steel ” has too much machinery
and not enough emotion Subscriber : Keep on—sub-
scribing Hakeem : Thanks, but we won’t go into such
close details G.T. : If, in such cases, you mix lies and
truth, then we reject the lot, without taking the trouble
to disentangle them Draheir : Would need too much
re-writing E.W.A. : Same to you Bullfrog: “Had
very little education. Th. only things compulsory when
I was a kid, were vaccination and going for the old man’s
beer.” Well, no education would have supplied the
selective faculty ; and you’ve a fair share of that... .Per-
cival E. 0. : (1) Sou suggest that The Bulletin should
begin the Commonwealth era by exchanging its title for
an essentially-Australian one—say The Bunyip. You are
indeed most unworldly. A newspaper’s name is its big-
gest asset, and we have now toiled 21 years to build up
what you would cheerfully destroy with a scratch of the
pen. Why not start The Bunyip yourself ? Tatura :
The Bulletin Co., as already stated, will gladly post a
copy weekly for six months to anyone procuring the
paper’s expulsion from any public institution where
it' is now read on the cheap C.L.: That is not
the whole issue. There are one or two waverers in
S.A. Leg. Council who were expected to agree to a
measure of reform if Kingston was elected; much,
therefore, depended upon last Saturday’s election,
which ended in a victory for Kingston O.M. : You
send us 12 items, and each occupies exactly one side
of paper. Yet there isn’t one that could not be
condensed 60 per cent W.M. : Next week
F. : Bulletin doesn’t habitually announce matrimonial
engagements. Such items generally only lead to a sour
letter from the lady concerned, threatening Law. If you
were a person of great importance we might be engi-
neered into announcing your engagement; as it is, we
advise you not to rush it into print. Never advertise any
of your engagements. It is as unwise as getting
photographed with somebody else. Everybody with
whom we have ever been photo’d is how (natur-
ally, you will remark) dead, or in gaol, or in Par-
liament. The last time we met a man with whom
we were photo’d he N was in the pickle - tank at
the Medical School G. (M.L.): “Love is All” does
not disengage a sufficiently strong emotion Meo :
But where (in Australia) are the writers of the “ Cheerful
Stories”? And, tell us, where do the Cheerful Stories
aforesaid appear—who prints them? Winstan. : But,
then, The Bulletin isn’t like the papers in question—it
doesn’t always “ try to be on the successful side in poli-
cal matters.” The Bulletin has gone into lots of
struggles without hoping to win, but always meaning to
fight. And as to “ the cold-blooded commercial aspect of
the matter,” it often pays better to be one paper on the
losing side than one of 100 on the winning side. Plenty
of defeated parties can support one paper. Plenty
of successful ones can’t support 100 Father John:
“ The typical Australian is the first incarnation of
the last Egyptians of the Dynasty days. The
Englanders of to-day are the incarnations of
the Romans of that period. But—wait till a few more
Egyptians are born here.” We will. In the meantime—
what brand did you say ? Y.M.K. : The other side of
Transvaal “ glory ” will filter out when all the men get
back to Australia. At present, the men’s mouths are
shut by prudence and esprit de corps. Hard graft, rotten
tucker, foul water, wounds, fever and death, and a fine
training’ in the use of “Sir” to an officer whom you’re
yearning to kick that’s what the Transvaal war
amounts to for most of our little lot K.F. :
Fine, large, solid MS. But we dodged it!....
E.H.H. : Your verse worthless. Try prose W.H.S. :
Your prose worthless. Try verse W.L. : Your
prose and verse worthless. Try politics
Jack Blunt: An agonising pencil smudge to read A
Very Old Subscriber : Papers sent as requested... .Edgar
M. : Yes, but; why did you send us, along with your letter,
four receipts for money received by you from a co. that
hasn’t the remotest connection with the story ?... .Novus
Ohummus : The chum may be new, but the idea is very
01d... .Walter W. (W.) : Thanks... .R.S.W. : Not good
enough at such a price Comero (Eng.): Thanks, but
we have no use for large bundles of news-clippings....
Ebor : Both are wicked humbugs. Send stamped ad-
dressed envelope and we will recommend you to an honest
and competent man Lucca : It would be utterly
impossible for any man “ to live for 10 years in strict con-
finement on bread and water a10ne.”.... A.W.P. :To The
Bulletin the sham patriot who is a loud advertiser is
particularly' loathsome A.J.O. : “Conversation”
weak. “Lost Cause,” no freshness or distinction....
E.Y.: “ Guardian Angel,” bones of a good yarn, but you
haven’t put much meat on them.... Mid ; Lacks interest,
as related. Good opportunity missed J.O.M. : Such
aggravated Johnniedom as that is mostly fictional. The
plummy-voiced and beefy'-jowled English y'outh is com-
mon enough—and ridiculous enough—hut he is very
rarely intentionally offensive H. Craw: Kindly send
card-item again.... Ell. : Bulletin has already" com-
mented on the fact that the local authorities appear to
lie in wait for those who ignorantly make such unlawful
interments... .Pan : “ Constancy' ” has a -fair point; but
.you encumber it with too many words.... Der Asra :
None usable Emil: Well-written: but too artificial,
wanting interest... .Abin : Your yarn is three-parts ex-
planation of one part which | isn’t worth explaining.
Aristippus: Weak C.B. (Dulford) : Abjeet
U.K. : “ Difference ” returned.... A.L.S. : Possibly' one...
A.H. (Vic.): Perhaps one or two Prodigal": Once
more you have sinned before Heaven G.C.W. : Triolet
isn’t bad ; but not pith enough Louis N. (Q.) : Not a
colour... .G.J.M. : You have little idea of the floods of
matter we have to deal with or you’d never ask us to
“ specify those of your items we intend to use.” The
printing of an item is the only specification we have time
for. And do shorten your wind a bit—as per our handling
of your “ goanna ” yarn.... Geo. R. H. : Spring poem just
like 20,000 others. “Tartar” may do—with much
emendation J.G.D. : War-skit has some good touches,
but too forced on the whole. One tolerable verse from
your Beauchamp farewell:—
....Vulcan: Not too bad; will consider.. ..Perce :
“ Camellias ” only mildly amusing Courier : That calf-
enticiqg sheep-dog has already figured here. “ Ingrati-
tude” too flimsy... .P.S.O. : Not “ stuffing” enough in
it... .K.0.Q.: Thanks... .Paul O. : Impossible to procure
copies of Bulletin so far back, unless you can manage to
buy a complete file, which is difficult to obtain and would
cost a lot of money An Admirer : But we
“durstn’t say it on the ’ustin’s.” A.M.O. : Please
don’t ask us the meaning of kharki, or khaki. It is a
word which is more or less the same in many languages.
\V. A. K. (G., V.): Doesn’t read convincingly. Where
are the hats and who is the shooter, and how'do you in
Victoria come to write of the incident? R.R.A. : Rats !
You evidently don’t read The Bulletin, and we strongly
advise you not to. It is an expensive vice, and as chronic
as a thoroughly-acquired cocaine-habit Francis M.
(Japan): Thanks, but out of The Bulletin’s line Aloe :
This paper abhors dialect Kelpie: But we’ve had the
gist of it already O.T.H.K. : We do not remember it.
Glenira : Same motive as the “ Curious Impertinent,”
in “Don Quixote” —with a different ending. You
haven’t handled it strongly enough T.P.C. : A feeble
hand Jas. W.: The pretty good one’s unintelligible,
and the intelligible one’s pretty bad .. .Fortuna: Thanks ;
but we have now had about enough of aboriginal funeral-
customs W.H.F. : Some spirit, but crudity kills it
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Jeff: Acceptable idea.. ..A.S.M.: Test-match notion
serviceable B.B.: Paragraph 0n1y... .Walter J.C. :
One printed in Bulletin months ago, so we naturally sus-
pect the others W.E.S. : Good—but not for direct re-
production.... Chirg : Perhaps J. Russell (O.) : Will
illustrate R. Linton: “Innocence” may do....Jas.
M‘L. : One may do for re-drawing. Some promise on the
juvenile’s part Poole : But it will not reproduce
direct Unavailable : E. E. Macdonald, Tomkins,
J.A.B.
The Labor-members, too, you’ve known—
Though, praise the saints, but for a while—
Who, as a dog begs for a bone,
Have craved that you on them might smile.
They like the people, but, you see,
They love a Lord of high degree :


' Co If <s. V QJ
S*® TP
JW_AR. ■
L EC TUP
£ y Dr W
Medical Corps n
, liV
~,K W C V°^ C °
ftfy
O M THE
PPJ IPP (p. &
COl /OILMAN
h/AR
LATE' a f m J
/)F/M A /
uke
util'
m-
SfiLT tfOKSE •
\ /4 Lecture
' iy
TWKEE PAYS
\nithout CjILK
A LECTURE Ay
TROOpER Sr/tP
/-y/7t/
TRoop s /a/
f 01/7 U rfftf/Cfl.
VT fly
/N Africa
a /.ECruße
ty 7b 0
/ct£ RiN AR-V
TuR-c, Co m
I IRC
Q/LL
£Are
CooK
A/' S -Av Co/iT/NsrA7
(^(rURf
0V
/ '3yu :
5-/t FRica.
How |TFEELS T«. be ftuN
pOi/ER by AR-
MO WE'D TRAIN
T’Mv'AtE' Ti lcharp
THE AJ % W CONTINGENT-
Ho Pi HHA H
KfipjlES IH/UE’
faPJIEd Pr
W M WIW N^0N {r
ivARARmroFTHE
IA/AR-CRy
LFCtURE^
& LECTIiRE By
flAisy HiXson.nursp,
/ ENTITLE!) - X
HEROES IVf-NUSSEP L
]?UPy/ARD KIPPLIN(f ttA'
i(inqU QomeHTEDTo ‘INTONE:
7 THe -
/4tys£yNl Of 0 jyßuif tffp.
llccu|
j)uaER
Roy*
'ey
s^RD
k
!°\ r L
In the Spring “ that tir&d feeling ”
Comes to one and comes to all,
As we see fresh terrors threaten
From each hoarding, fence, and wall.
A SONG of PRING.
In the Spring our Weather Prophets
Turn their optics toward the sky ;
'Twixt the two they’re sure to hit it,
One says “ wet ” and t’other “ dry.”
In the Spring the bilious party
For his liver-something takes.
In the Spring when rusticating
Keep a sharp look-out for^snake?.
In the Spring the party leader
Iterates in utt'ranee vague—
“ Splendid action, —Saved tho Empire,
Slew the rats acid squelghed the plague ! *
Jfl the Spring the boating season
Opens up off Sydney Cove.
Then the rash, unskilful lubber
Hires a boat and—see above.
. In the Spring a younglhan’s fancy
Turns to thoughts of love, of course.
Later on, perhaps in Autumn,
“Fancy ’’ would prefer divorce.
In the Spring the minor poet
Thinks he’s hit on something wwr.
“ Chestnut! ” ories the man of suiwuus
Has this e’er occurred to you•? ” -
A SONG OF SPRING.


rl J l"/e Ip
4 /T
INGLEWOOD.—Seven Chinese gardener*,
were charged at the police court:
on Tuesday under an old Charier
/I. statute with following their or*
dinary on a Sunday- ”
io yoa vot tW
lye fip.'T -
resT
s’w '• — ‘H e *7° wp y°\*
h/e Welly Qood YjtVpjtSl. '
J°5S.V«'« •?« $
/ \t sebe»j
W q v-w«x
rvsJKSfL J
—
Ji»7ooß^ Wl 7 NV° W 4 Si<7cc October M") • R e^);
*%,«4tezsr,
w;, (W/ffi+lt 51 Jtfev- -r
Qooa v -
V, ' (j/f
*%;■£ 1/ii %
So »mA | %ijHW/f !'im s
■«7 (w#
l| tAjrned -jeax^
I
| \lfe ~Ht
, SllJ 0 !? n
The ’ Premier, who has -mat fgfeovered .~\® of. the Legislative As*
1 from the severe accident which befel nim JJ e . u P° ft the Attorney-General's
\ some weeks ago, is now, proatrated-.'by a n e f 8 yesterday, the. Premier being' tool
1 Severe/attack of influenza. In'consequence e t( ? attend the House, suffering from -
/ of his illness, several deputations iwhich he/.. •/?, 0^ u ?uuenza. The Treasurer i 3
had arranged to receive to-day have been 1 on a ud unable to leave,
I
i
r- The Postmaster-General haa put ‘hj.s staff
•of postmeg in a uniform which does not
•quite meet with the approval of Mr.
Maloney. Only caps and tunics are supplied
by the State, and Mr.* Maloney pleaded for
'trousers as well. The Postmaster-General
Baid an outjay of £lOOO would be required
to accede to that request, and promised to
do something when next year’s estimates
were prepared.
SCRIPTURE LESSONS IN
I STATE SCHOOLS.,
y a)* ' r
3sS yf
YUx) o i GfCy '•SIS
QoyXunpe ,
'faftpr’
v^e*?
* °7
itej)—l ■- :
w v £re , I
'vjV K^>
T*7&J7 you.
M;.
0, 7 8
I \To Wll #-
/iVe seel ?
I
1
v ;Hv:
lIHRI
wf
'.£2?F. GEOROE GLADSTONE'S
IDIOSYNCRASIES. . j
T?sV>-j.fes
j£isL b XT\
nJ®& Mil
j^AW^ung^Btroo^tortf 14 ”’ M ° ,SniDe ' Jwy
,111 %• '' !
\ P'Z-ev" (V ! " .
up *WT -fr-oss A" 4 g=-^;..
,r sV+»f o “ r 3+? K°f^>-
MELBOURNIANA.


The latest Yankee invention is a method
of almost instantaneously removing a dead fowl’s
feathers by means of cross air-currents generated
by electric-fans moving at nearly 100 revolutions
per second.
George Hutchinson, who has just left
Maoriland again for S’Africa, where he has been
“spying out the land,” recently says in Christ-
church Press article: —
Behind the British lines, roosting on every fence, are
huge flocks of unclean birds, waiting till our soldiers
enable them to again sweep down on Johannesburg the
Golden.
And we are slaughtering Dutch peasants because
they objected to indiscriminately enfranchising the
sweepings of civilisation—the creatures whom
Hutchinson aptly styles “unclean birds.” But
the Rhodes gang must have cheap niggers.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they, will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
According to a letter recently received by
a Sydney resident from his father, a prominent
Italian Socialist, the sensational cablegrams pub-
lished by Sydney dailies about the 1800 arrests
over Humbert’s assassination and the terrorism
reigning in Italy, were all pure bunkum. The
only persons arrested were two members of the
staff of the Socialist journal L’A v anti, and they
were soon released. It is further stated that
Humbert’s death is deeply deplored by Monarch-
ists, Democrats, Republicans, and Socialists
alike, and that the senseless crime is looked upon
as a national calamity.
Important Questions.
GOOD HEALTH NECESSARY TO HAPPINESS.
HOW TO ATTAIN IT.
Without exception health is the most essential
condition to perfect happiness, the chief bene-
diction of life. Without health labor is _ a
drudgery, and all the light of life is shaded and its
sweetness embittered. So strange is the law of
sympathy that if any member suffers, all the
members suffer. An injury to one is the concern
of all. Nature is harmony. Disease discord.
One cannot be happy when tortured by the aches
and pains of rheumatism. One cannot work
when the back is so lame and the kidneys so weak
from kidney disorders that any movement causes
agony or requires extra exertion. Thousands
have been cured by the use of Warner’s Safe Cure
for these troubles. Don’t hesitate, delay may
mean death. Read the following testimony as to
the efficacy of this medicine :
“474, Church St., East Richmond, July 6,1900.
For some time past I have suffered from severe
headaches and indigestion, and have tried all sorts
of medicines, but could find no relief until I used
Warner’s Safe Cure. I obtained such good results
from this medicine that after taking three bottles
of it I was cured, and have been in splendid health
ever since. I shall be pleased to recommend it to
any sufferers as a sure and speedy cure. — Frank
H ANN AKER.”
GENERAL MANAGER wanted for GOLD MINE,
New South Wales ; good climate ; 40 Head Mill,
Frue and Wilfley Concentrators. Apply with copies,
references ; state age and salary expected to GOLD, c/o
Gordon and Gotch, Sydney.
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
, . A HOME . .
FOB
PEER OB PEASANT.
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL,
MELBOURNE.
km
<&**
OOENEE COLLINS and KING STEEETS, MELBOUENE.
The Federal Palace Hotel, Melbourne, , Ch
Rooms and Accommodation Unequalled for Variety and Range of Prices
by any Hotel in Australasia.
All Intending Visitors to
Melbourne should note
the following . . .
TARIFFS.
ROOMS
Single
Double
25., 2s. 6d., 35., 45., ss. per day.
12s. 6d., 155., 18s., 215., 255., 305., 355. per week.
/45., 55., 65., 75., Bs., 10s. per day.
1255., 305., 355., 425., 505., 605., 635. per week.
}
According to Size
and Floor.
BOARDERS
Inclusive
Rates
per
Adult.
■ rss., 65., 75., 7s. 6d., Bs., 95., 10s., 12s. per
day.
j 255., 305., 325. 6d., 355., 425., 455., 505.,
[ 635., 70s. per week.
According to
Dining Room
and Accommo-
dation selected.
MEALS
Can be paid for separately as they are taken :
In Lower Dining Hall, a la carte, from Is.
In Upper Dining Hall, Table d’Hote, 2s 6d,
In Cafd, Light Refreshments, 3d., 6d., &c.
RECEPTION ROOMS
These are numerous and attractive, and include
two Drawing (one lately added), Reading,
Writing, Smoking, and Billiard Rooms. &c.,
for use of all Visitors.
FAMILIES
are specially catered for. Inspection of Suites (including private Bath-
room, &c.) invited. Special quotations given immediately on application to
H. rEli CE VA L SMITH, Manager.
The Case Against the Tote.
Opponents, reverend and otherwise, of the
Totalisator, are just now looking to Maoriland
for comfort. They have wearied of setting
up their old South Australian arguments to be
knocked over by the hard skittle-ball of Truth.
Rather more than two years ago the alleged
shocking example of S.A. was put before Vic.
Assembly by Frank Madden, the bookmakers’
friend. Burly Frank made a number of state-
ments concerning the influence of the Tote down
South, and these passed for facts until Chaffey
Baker, the parliamentary father of the machine
and chairman of the S.A. Jockey Club, was asked
to disprove them. Some extracts from Baker’s
letter to S’Rupert Clarke in contradiction of
Madden’s audacious statements will be found to
put the extinguisher upon the anti-Tote argu-
ments which have lately sprung from Maoriland.
He wrote from Adelaide (July, 1899): —
* * * •
That the totalisator has been a magnificent and un-
qualified success in S.A. from nearly every point of view
is incontestable and has never been doubted locally. It
has purified the turf from its worst enemies, enabled the
clubs to expend large sums of money in grandstands,
training and racing tracks, and conveniences for members
and the public, to gradually but surely increase the
stakes given, to diminish the percentage on the stakes
paid by the owners for entrance and acceptance fees, to
foster and encourage in every way legitimate and honest
sport, and to eradicate welching, and to suppress an undue
ind ulgence in betting and wagering. It has also diminished
crimes and offences. The mere perusal of the schedules
attached hereto referring to the transactions of the three
leading racing clubs prove most of these statements ; the
annual reports of the S.A. Commissioner of Police as issued
in the S.A. Blue Books in your Parliamentary Library (in
which special reference is made to the influence of the
totalisator) substantiate others. See also report from
Commissioner of Police, dated 6th July, 1898, sent to the
Premier of Victoria, and published in the Age, and letter
from Commissioner of Police to Mr. F. Madden, dated 28th
July, 1898, if Mr. Madden will produce same.
The practical impossibility of holding any race meeting
in S.A. without a license from the Govt, to use a total-
isator has entirely eradicated those objectionable
suburban everyday meetings which are not unknown in
Melb., and helped the premier club to control the number
and improve the character of country meetings, thus
placing racing in the position it ought to occupy, a manly
and wholesome sport, a means of occupation and living to
a few certainly—but not an institution to enable an army
of parasites to fatten on the public.
Mr. Madden states that at one time I was for the totali-
sator, at others against. He has been misinformed. I in-
troduced and passed the first Bill, entitled “An Act to
remedy some of the evils arising from betting at races,”
in 1879. Owing to the fact that the’ use of the machine
was not restricted by the Act, what to my mind was a
great evil arose. In consequence of the large profits
accruing from the use of the totalisator, the number of
objectionable race-meetings was largely increased—-pri-
vate persons established courses in all directions, and put
the profits into their own pockets. Had the Act not been
repealed we should have had a race-meeting every day of
the week. I advocated the repeal of this defective Act,
and shortly afterwards had charge of and helped to pass
the present Act, under which the use of the machine is
properly regulated and restricted.
Mr. Madden quoted from a speech made by me in which
it appears that in one year the amount invested in the
totalisator was less than in the year before, but he does
not mention that the speech was made in answer to a
clamor from cwners to raise stakes ; nor does he mention
the fact that the bad times we have had for the last few
years have of necessity had an effect on the spending
power of the people. In fact, the success of the totalisa-
tor and the prosperity of the racing clubs are perfectly
marvellous under the circumstances.
I admit that the owner who desires to back his horse
for large amounts at long odds and forestall the public
tt&.'iTiAffSiSi SgSSfcZt
tralia, even where the totalisator is not legalised—but- the
stakes will be so largely increased by its aid that the
Poetically obtain a large amount to nothing.
The v.R.C. would probably be able to add £20,000 to the
M e ib. Cup. What more can a man want than £21,000 to
his entrance fee ?
* * * *
The Maoriland case against the Tote is presented
for all it is worth by parson Joseph Nicholson,
of Geelong, who proudly claims to have been a
s^ u ent °f tjje betting-question ever since the dark
shadow or the machine first fell across his apos-
to]ic life . Such drivel as appeared in a ree P 6nt
Sydney Referee, over the signature of Alf.
Burton, is not worth considering in the light of
Re v - Nicholson’s recent letter to Melb. Age.
fo , r + evid f ce to
support his dogma, and what he can t say to pre-
Ber ve the ignoble army of hook-nosed parasites
from further legislation is not of any importance
i n conflict. His astounding industry simpli-
Acs matters. To dispose of Rev. Jos. Nicholson’s
crafty fallacies is to convince the Court of Common
Sense that Ikey Mo has no claim to toleration.
Here are some extracts from the good man’s latest
epistle to the Age :
For years past the conviction has deepened in Maori-
land that-as Mr. Hutchison put it in Parliament-" the
totalisator was simplv proving itself to be a well meant
but terribly mistaken experiment-something like another
Frankenstein monster-a terror to its masters.” Con-
sequently, in July, 1899, Mr. T. S. Taylor, member for
Christchurch, brought in a Totalisator Abolition Bill,
Mr. Flatman brought in another entitled The Totalisator
Gradual Extinction Bill. The Premier, Mr. Seddon,
speaking to the latter, said “He hoped they would see
this bill made one of urgency, and that the totalisator
wou i d be a thing of the past in the colony.” As there
was not fcime to carr v either bill the Leg. Council agreed
t o the following resolution That the Govt, be re-
quested to introduce a bill for the suppression of
gambling.” This subject has been duly announced as in-
cluded in the Govt, policy for this session. So while
Victoria is being asked to legalise the totalisator Maori-
ian(j j s prepared to abolish it
The discussions in the Maoriland Parliament last session
were characterised by singular unanimity as to the ac-
knowledged evils of the totalisator and the wisdom of
repealing it. Out of the scores of speeches I will quote a
few testimonies from Hansard’s official report, which
illustrates strong reasons for abolishing it. Other quo-
tations are also from authentic sources,
Mr. T. Dick (a member of the Cabinet which introduced
the tote, writing Rev. A. H. Wallace, Vic.) said : “ I
hope the totalisator will not be introduced in Victoria. We
have it here, as you know. Mr. Whittaker, when he in-
troduced our Gambling Bill into Parliament, inserted a
clause legalising the totalisator, under certain conditions,
in the hope of crushing out bookmaking. But I fear
the remedy is a failure. Bookmaking continues, and I
think numbers go to the totalisator who never would
have thought of gambling but for it. I wish we could
get the law repealed ”
Premier Seddon:* “The effect of introducing the
machine had been to spread the vice of gambling. When
they had bookies people used to go to the races to put a
pound or two on a horse, but the evil was confined to a
certain class. Now the totalisator had caused gambling
to permeate the homes of the people.”
Mr. Taylor, M.P., writing Rev. A. Wallace: “We
have a large number of spieling bookmakers here now,
who live by laying tote odds. They are known as tote
bettors, and their clients are unfortunately in hundreds
of cases boys and girls. It is no uncommon thing to see
girls and women going into tote-bettors’offices. There is
a feeling in favor of abolishing the totalisator, and I
think in another year or two it will be abolished by law.
You had better suffer the ills vou have and know than fly
into the arms of the totalisator with its attractions,
The bookmaker is infinitely less injurious than the
machine.”
• • • '
Most Maorilanders are satisfied that bettors increase
when they find well-attended race-meetings becoming so
frequent as to occupy 313 week days of the year, a great
advance on pre-tota’isator times. Alas, that the receipts
through the totalisator increase from £350,000 in 1881 to
nearly £900,000 in 1899 ; and with all that bookmakers
to-day are as numerous as ever ; or, as the Yic. Sportsman
put it, “That the bookmakers have prospered in M.L.
against the use of the totalisator is very obvious.”
The experience of the totalisator in S.A. runs parallel
with that of M.L. Sir Richard Bai«r may claim it is a
■“magnificent success” from a racing point of view, and
no one will dispute with him. When a deputation of 1000
persons waits upon the Premier asking him to repeal the
totalisator, and urging exactly similar reasons to those
urged in M.L., this coincident dissatisfaction with the
machine should “ give pause ” to Victoria.
In view, therefore, of regrets expressed in M.L. and
elsewhere, the “ terribly mistaken experiment ” of
legalising gambling and the attempts to repeal ; the per-
nicious depredations of bookmakers, which are not abol-
ished ; the creation of new evils, which defy the moral
conscience of the community, it is surely not wise for
Victoria to attempt to nurse this viper of legalised gam-
bling in her bosom, under some spasmodic attempt to
abolish bookmakers by licensing the totalisator. The
wiser course is attack the evil in straightforward sim-
plicity, and declare, as in S.A., “ that betting in a public
place, or any place to which the public has access,” is a
misdemeanor, to be enforced with drastic penalties.
* * * *
Mr. Nicholson, of The Parsonage, Geelong, does
not openly pose as the champion of Isaac Moses,
by the way. He professes to be working for the
abolition of all betting, which is much the same
thing as advooating the Millenium, the more
especially as he speaks in a province where a
fashionable Poster Ball procession was headed the
other day by sassiety advertisers of Tatt.’s Sweep.
But he carefully quotes the “argument” of men
like Taylor, M.P., who say “the bookmaker is
infinitely less injurious than the machine,” because
Maoriland runs the Tote 313 days of the year, and
permits bookmakers (otherwise commission-agents)
to roam at large inviting men, women, and infants .
to gamble with them on Tote terms. The Bulle-
tin would like to know what Messrs. Jos. Nichol-
son, Taylor, M.P., Premier Skddon and Co.
take the public for when they quote the sins of
the Govt, as proof of iniquity in the Tote ! N.S.W.
and Victoria ask the right to employ the much-
maligned machine in place o/parasitical bookmakers
for reasons which this journal is tired of repeat-
ing. The sporting and economical arguments in
favor of the peaceful democratic Tote on race-
courses are unanswerable. The “ moral” objections
that Premier Seddon and Co. now raise against it
are ridiculously contemptible. We don’t want
313 days racing in the year. We want the use of
the machine restricted by a respect able Act, as in
S. Aus., and we herewith call upon the Maoriland
Govt., and every Australian Govt., to compel
their corrupt police departments to suppress
street-betting, shop-betting, tout-betting, and all
Tote-betting save what is conducted on racecourses,
for the benefit of sport and in the interests of fair-
play for punters. The Tote may be a bad thing,
or a comparatively good thing, just according to
how the Act is framed by Parliament and ad-
ministered by the police. The bookmaker is a bad
thing, anyway. And, by the way, when Taylor,
M.P., abuses the Tote because “ we have a large
number of spieling bookmakers,” he is a very
illogical little man. When he is so angry at the
bookmakers, why doesn’t he wade in to abolish
them? His idea is, because there are swindling
bookies, to abolish the honest machine.


YOUR Wedding Presents can be Supplied by A. SAUNDERS,
The
Reliable
Jeweller & Silversmith.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT,— Floral China, real
Silver-plated Mounts, 20s.
Similar designs, 15s, 255, 30s. Very
pretty and aooeptable present.
A. SAUNDERf.
LADIES’ FRIEND.—Pure Solid Silver
Mounts, 18s 6d.
Very useful and acceptable presents.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVER i, with Silver-
pi.ited Mounts and Handles, 30s.
Similar, 20s and 255.
Pretty Floral China, 255, 30s, £2 and £2 10s.
nm
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SETS. —Eure So id Si ver, Chased
Mounts, 15s ; larger sizes, 2Js, 2.' s, and 30s.
ii ii
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, nicely Chased with prettv Red
Glass 12s 6d ; with Fluted Edge s, Its Cd ;
Double Jam, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, 16s 6d ; Chased as
above, 20s, 255, and 30s. Pont free.
-7J
A
A. BAUNDERS.
BUTTER.—Pure Silver Electro-plated on
White Metal, nicely chased, 8s 6d. Round, P's
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS.—Silver-plated Stand, Colored Glass
with Spoons, 6s 6d, Bs6d, 10s pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
"ITER. —Beautifully Chased and Orna-
cnled pure Silver, Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, 15s 6d. Large size, 20s.
Four o’clock TEA SET with Covers, pure Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, first-class English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Styles, £2, 12 15s, £3, £3los, £4.
Ladies kindly call and see our Beautifully-stocked Showrooms.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE DISHES.—The very hest finished pure
Silver Electro-plate, in various patterns.
20s, 22s 6d, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SI UNOERSa
4 o’clock TEA SPOONS and TONGS in Silk-Lined Case,
Embossed, 12s 6d. Extra Quality, 15s, 20s, 255.
The Silver-plate we guarantee to give every satisfaction.
In Pure Solid Silver, 6 Spoons only 255, with Tongs
30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUETS, pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, beautifully
Chased, SOs, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
Cheaper Style, 20s and 255.
Handsome and Useful Present
A. SAUNDERS.
FOLDING BISCUITS.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Can be used for Cake or Sandwiches.
A. BAUNDERB.
4-bottle Lunch or Dinner ORUET, pure
Silver Electro-plated on hard White
Metal, 21s. Similar Styles, 265, 30s, 86s.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BlSCUlT.—Silver-
plated Rims and Lids, with
Enamelled Lining-, 15s 6d ;
with Ornamented Fluted
Rims, 20s; Plain, with Shield
only, 12s 6d.
n
Old Plate
Made
Equal
To New.
.
WHlflllllJllllllfllHHM
“Just What Want!” SPOONS AND FORKS. A. BAUNDERS can fill that want with a First-Class, Reliable Article.
EXTRA STRONG. Guaranteed to give you every satisfaction.
A 1 QUALITY is tile very Highest Standard. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal.. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 17s 6d half.
n mTIT .dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 7s 6d half-dozen.
B QUALMY is a Second Quality. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ;
DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 10s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 5s half-dozen.
SOLID WHITE NICKEL SILVER, Wear White throughout. A Splendid Knockabout Spoon to save the Better Article. DINNER
Spoons or Forks, 4s half-dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 3s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, Is 6d half-dozen.
Packed and Sent post free to all parts of the World. Kindly send your Orders to A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Size BUTTER.—AII Metal, Pure
Silver-plated, beautifully chased, 20s.
Extra ornamented, 255.
Call and See our
Displayed Showrooms!
WHISKY FLASK.
Silver-plated Bot-
tom and Patent
Top, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
A Warming Friend.
,T'§7
. V
%
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure
Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Simi-
lar Patterns, 2s 6d and 3s.
Wish Bone Design, 4s 6d,
5s 6d, and 6s 6d. Solid
Silver, similar to Pattern,
7s 6d, 10s, and 12s 6deach.
mn
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Makes Two Dishes, Pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, 355. A Useful and Acceptable
Present. SHALL WE SEND YOU ONE ?
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIVES.—Two Silver-plated, with Pearl
Handles, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d. Other stvles, 7s 6d
10s 6d, and 12s 6d, in cases. JAM SPOONS.— Same
price ; without case, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d and
6s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUET (Breakfast). —Pure
Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, 10s 6d ; with 4 Bottles,
15s 6d and 17s 6d.
Makes a very nice present.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK. —Pure Silver Electro-plated
on Hard White Metal, 12s 6d. Other styles,
similar, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA POTS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated, on Whitf
Metal, as pattern, 25s and 30s.
Different Pattern, 355, £2, £2 10s.
%
*
13
■p
(fi
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUETS.—First-class Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, as pattern, with Shield,
£2 10s ; extra quality, £3, £3 10s, and £4.
Other patterns without Shields, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Floral China, Pretty Design, with pure
Silver Electro-plated Stand, 15s 6d ; double, 265.
Latest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
can be used as a Teapot.—Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Chased and Ornamented, 35s
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2, £2
10s. Other Styles, £3 and £3 10s.
Handsome and Useful Article.
.SAUNDERS,
Jeweller & Silversmith
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
Bis George Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Static n,
Sydney
OX.* .■■!-> X*L A.T -E 3ME.A.13;E3 EQUAL TO UNTS'W.
Batimatea Given.
Send. "52" our Addre


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
get. Roe# C o <
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
mm
GO TO HELL-
IOOLANI* for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elizateth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk STRIPE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- pei• Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Korins on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane ft'land. 1
D?MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming’
Complexion.
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society
S. Harvey, Ltd.
London Edge S.E
Gh
Important Announcement to our City and Country,
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLCV * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Gaor*? Surest, Syinsy,
Have aiways on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, Cliina, Electro-
l>late, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction ltooms.
Cash Ad vanned on Goods for Unreserved Sale..
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sb
POLITICAL
POINTS
In most Australian Parliaments at present
the smaller men are filled with anxiety that the
bigger men shall go for Federal seats.
S.A. Labor Party has chosen Education
Minister Batchelor, Kirkpatrick and McGregor,
M.’s.L.C., and Price, M.P.. to contest Federal
districts. This is the strongest quartette available
in the Labor ranks.
The Bulletin trusts that Cardinal Moran
and Co. are pleased with their work, one of the
results of which is that a “ Protestant bunch ” is
to be organised for the Senate elections by the
Evangelical churches.
If Australia doesn’t watch it, the name of
the Federal capital will be “Georgetown,” or
“ Yorktown,” or “ Mayvillo,” or “Guelph.”
Thank Heaven it won’t be “Victoiia”—N.S.
Wales would be too jealous.
South Australia sticks pretty closely to her
policy of “no more alienation of Crown lands.”
In the past 10 years she has got rid of only 53,917
acres, for which she lias received £52,352, and
most of this has gone in very small lots.
Beautiful extract from Queensland Han-
sard, showing the advantages attaching to the
plentiful importation of Asiatic cheap labor
Mr. Givens : In my ignorance, I walked through a street
in Maokay, and I saw a Japanese woman walk from one
side of the street to the other without as much costume
on as Mother Eve had.
Chunk of argument from a speech of
Premier Seddon’s during the recent debate on
Australian Federation.
“Shall we sell our independence for a few bags of
maize ? ”
Yet Sedddfi does not call his idea to tie Maoriland
on to the Fijis, a proposal to “sell our complete
independence for a few bananas.”
THE RIGHT HAND OF FELLOWSHIP.
The empire of Russia will desire to sub-
jugate Europe, and will itself be subjugated. The
Tartars, its subjects or neighbors, will become its
masters and ours; this revolution seems to me
inevitable. All the kings of Europe are working
together to accelerate it.” — Rousseau : Social
Contract.
Thus “Kiwi,” from Maoriland :
Apropos The Bulletin’s expulsion from M.L. Parliamen-
tary library. The cause alleged is the irreverent attitude
of the paper towards the great god, Jingo, but though
this may be the pretence, it is not the real reason. Some
months ago, when Seddon audaciously endeavored to get
Chamberlain to tinker the Commonwealth Bill, notwith-
standing that it had been emphatically endorsed by the
Democracy of Australia, The Bulletin dared to call him
“ a high-handed boor.” The paper that could thusattack
the head of the Maoriland Liberal party need expect no
quarter It will certainly get none from Big Dick.
The glad tidings come from Adelaide that
the invalided S.A. soldiers from Africa are to get
the first chance of a job at the Labor Bureau! It
is a great drop from the promise that their names
would be treasured for ever in the remembrance
of their admiring country, and would be writ large
on the Scroll of Fame, to the reality of the first
chance of a pick-and-shovei job in the burning sun
at verv little per diem—this for an invalid, too.
Still it might have been worse. They might have
been promised first vacancy in the Benevolent
Asylum.
Quaintsampleof Foreign
trade logic. Pulsford’s new
Foreign-trade paper recently
announced that big N.S.W.
in 1800 had more persons em-
ployed in factories than little
Victoria had in 1898, and
asked if this was not a trium-
phant proof, &c., &c. George
Reid proudly quoted the same
figures in Melbourne. Where-
upon the Aoe pointed out
that, if he had given the
figures of each State for 1898,
or the figures of each State
for 1899, Victoria would have
been ahead, and that taking
different years in this fashion
was pure misrepresentation.
And Pulsford’s new Foreign-
trade paper replies gravely
that the 1899 figures for Vic-
toria were not ready (the idea
that he might have compared
the figures for 1898, and
thereby have arrived at a fair
result, doesn’t occur to his
limited intelligence), and
complains that the Age’s
charge of unfairness is there-
fore “ without a shadow of
justification, as anybody can
see for himself.” And Puls-
ford is supposed to be one of
thq. intelligent men of the
Foreign-trade party ! What
can the ruck be like ?
Victoria is excelling it-
self lately. Not satisfied with
filling its gaols with the des-
titute and sick, it now incar-
cerates acknowledged luna-
tics. At Horsham lately, a
man suffering from religious
mania and obviously men-
tally deranged, was actually
sent to gaol for 15 months by a P.M. —not a
common honorary. He had committed a small
assault on a policeman, for which a sane and
responsible man would have got 14 days.
J. P. Abbott, before surrendering the powers
and privileges of N. S. W. Speakership, issaid to have
appointed the gardener who used to look after his
little private plot at North Shore to be gardener of
the other little plot at Parliament House, Mac-
quarie-street, at a salary (from the taxpayers, of
course) of £l4O a year, and quarters equal to
another £5O. When the estimates come up there
is to be a row.
Zeal, President of Victoria’s 48
Rich Landlords, made a speech re-
cently, in which he assured the public
that the alleged Toryism of that re-
markable Upper House was all a mis-
take. It wouldn’t in the least object,
said Zeal, to widen the Council suffrage.
Perhaps not, but Zeal knows as well as
anybody else that the Council suffrage
isn’t the trouble. If the 130,000 Coun-
cil electors were allowed to choose any
of their own body to represent them
in the Council, Victoria would be
reasonably satisfied; the grief is that
there are so many qualifications at-
tached to membership that only about
2000 of. the 130,000 are eligible to be
M.sL.C. ; that these are the old, fat,
bigoted fag-end of the electors ; and
that when you deduct those who are
too aged and infirm, too busy, those
who don’t care for politics, those who
are too ambitious to bury themselves
in the Upper Tomb, and those who
are absent, there are only about 100
dreary bigots left. It is the same as if
130,000 teetotallers were allowed to
choose their representatives among 100
confirmed drunkards. And Zeal kindly
assures the public that the 100-con-
firmed drunkards don’t mind being
elected by a rather larger number of
teetotallers.
From things that are happening
in a big N.S.W. mining town it seems
that there are ways of dodging the very
good law which provides that works
estimated to cost over £20,000 shall go
to Parliamentary Works Committee.
The plan, it seems, is to spend £20,000
on a section that isn’t any good unless
other sections costing other 20 tlious.
are added to it; and so the work
is done by instalments. The pre-
sent proposal is to build an entire
street-tramway system on this dubious plan,
the fear being that it would not pass the Works
Committee; and, worse still, a Labor Mayor is
engineering the thing that looks and smells so
fishy.
‘*D.B.” to The Bulletin
Ed. Bulletin.— lsn’t it time somebody called attention
to the effrontery with which the N.S.W. pastoralists
(“ squatters ” is now an obsolete term), and others of that
ilk, are fencing in and otherwise coolly annexing what
must amount in the aggregate to hundreds of sq. miles of
travelling-stock reserves and routes ? Any attempt, how-
ever, to relax the grip of the Australian “ squire ” on the
public reserves would doubtless involve a lawsuit, and I
suppose.it is idle to expect any M.P. to call attention to
the abuse. The M.P.’s game is to go for the roads-and-
bridges .vote—not for the interests of the voteless nomads
• constituting- the "droving and “ travelling ” public.
In certain Australian State Schools’, the
following idiotic p srforiuance, known as “Flag
Drill,” is now indulged in. Three boys, known
as the “ color party,” carry the Union Jack and
halt in front of each class. The Teacher : “ At-
tention ; stand. Position 1. All put right hand
on heart and say, ‘ L lovo my country.’ 2. 1 1
honor her flag,’ saluting witli right hand to fore-
head. 3. Raising the right hand as if taking an
oath, say, ‘I will cheerfully obey her laws,’
finishing by a whirl of the hand and all shouting
‘ Hurrah !’ ” The Australian State Schools are
being made the cradles of shrieking Jingoism.
WHO'S SPEAKING?
“ Look here, several people told me that they
heard we were pomp to be married'."
“Did they congratulate you?"
“No, they asked me if it was really true."
The pietists of Maoriland have again
fallen in. Premier Seddon, it was confidently
anticipated, was going to re-establish the dilapi-
dated old principle of State aid to sectarian
schools. He hesitated long between two opinions,
but at last he seems to have decided that the non-
sectarian crowd was the one he could least afford
to offend, and the heels and coat-tail of the
Church have just been seen disappearing over-
board once more.
In 1898 Maoriland resolved to try the Old
Age Pension system for three years, the Upper
House regarding it with a certain amount of
shudder, as a dangerous temporary experiment.
But it has proved a success, and has come to stay.
A Bill now before the House of Representatives
changes the temporary expedient into a permanent
law and a fixed item of public policy, and even
the most Upper of Upper Houses wouldn’t dare
to kick seriously now.
The cabled story about Michael Davitt
having renounced the Boer cause and justified
England because of what he had personally seen of
the Boers’ cruelty, cowardice, greed and corruption
proves, on Davitt’s own authority, to be the usual
cable-lie. Had Davitt recanted as described, his
recantation would have carried enormous weight;
for than the crippled Irishman, whose kindly
nature has not been soured nor his keen judgment
impaired by all the horrors of his ten years’ incar-
ceration in a convict prison, there is no more
devoted lover of Truth.
The proposal to greatly reduce the duty
on patent medicines was one of the most
foolish of all Premier Seddon’s
recent proposals for throwing
away revenue which Maori-
land can’t spare. Seddon
proposed to sacrifice so much
revenue by the abolition of
duties that his province
would be compelled to con-
struct practically everything
in the way of public works,
productive and unproduc-
tive, out of loan money. A
well-timed revolt in the
Govt, party seems likely to
knock this suicidal policy on
the head. Think of loading
posterity with debt to make (among
other things) bogus liver-pills a shade
cheaper !
Political quidnuncs state that
Attorney-General Gordon is using the
fact that he is the only lawyer on the
Liberal side in the S. A. parliament, to bluff
Premier Holder and his other Ministerial
colleagues by threats of resignation whenever
he does not quite get his way in Cabinet.
Gordon has long been famed for the easy
adjustability of his political conscience.
He has the manners of an angel, the
plausibility of a Chinee and the backbone
of a jellyfish.
Of 243,244,800 acres in South Australia
proper only 7,836,553 acres is so far sold, though
another six millions is held under right of pur-
chase, and as much as 5,231,000 acres is now held
under perpetual lease. As a result of bad seasons,
dog and other pests, and, no doubt, also the pro.
vince’s policy of paying for improvements on
thrown-up country, the unoccupied lands have
now reached the enormous total of 154,558,692
acres —five-eighths of the entire area of the pro-
vince !
Victorian Assembly when passing the
Electric Light and Power Amending Bill, inserted
amendments specially stipulating that a week’s
work should consist of six days of eight hours each,
that Sunday work should be paid for at double
rates, and that no Municipal Council should grant
a concession or in any way transfer its powers
without first taking a poll and getting the consent
of the ratepayers. But the obstreperous House of
48 Rich Landlords will doubtless eject these demo-
cratic clauses with great fury.
It is a go id many years since the general
issue of electoral-rights in N.S.W., and it is evi-
dently high time there was another. The old
rights have been lost wholesale ; those that were
not lost have become dirty, infected, and spotted
all over with the stamps and brands of many elec-
tions, and voters have been dying and departing
till the N.S.W. electoral lists dunno where they
are. A recent overhaul of seven Sydney elector-
ates revealed the astounding fact that out of
18,959 alleged voters on the roll only 7307 are
alive and still resident and entitled to
vote in these electorates. Against this fact there
are 9938 who should be-on the lists but are not.
Under these conditions it doesn’t seem much use
to have lists.
It is interesting to remember that George
Reid, who recently went over to Melbourne to
hold forth about the beauty and' advantages of
absolute Freetrade, is not only the man who re-
tained many Protective duties while he was
N.S.W. Premier (either because he didn’t believe
his own assertions about the injuriousness of Pro-
tection, or else because he wanted to injure
N.S.W.), but is also the man who assured a Tuiriut
audience that he no longer had the same faith in
Freetrade as of old. That was when there seemed
a possibility that Reid, by turning Protectionist,
might get the Federal Premiership. His chance
of being the Protectionist Federal Premier
vanished when he fell from office, but there is just
a shadowy chance that a Freetrade Federal Pre-
mier may be wanted, and Reid is in active train-
ing for that billet now.
Th e Two-headed Government of Victoria,
according to the indignant Auk, is about to
introduce a Bill to prevent “confiscation” of
private lands for railway purposes without com-
pensation. That is to say, it having been
specifically agreed between the State (which is the
people) and the persons to whom it gave or sold
lands prior to 1861, and the heirs, executors, and
assigns of these persons, that the State should have
the right to resume land for railway purposes
without compensation, and the grantshaving beep
parted with more cheaply on account of this
drawback, the M’Shiels Govt, cold-bloodedly pro-
poses to rob the people of a valuable right, and
make a present of it to a small body of land-
holders. And it does this largely at the instigation
of certain papers whose proprietors hold land
bought on conditions mentioned. Said proprietors
howl about “confiscation” when they are merely
requested to keep to the terms of their bargain,
and will profit by having their titles improved at
the public expense.
At a recent meeting of aldeTmen from the
many municipalities of Sydney, a tremendous
scheme was evolved for establishing a Greater
Sydney Council, to supervise the more important
concerns now looked after- by 43 mayor’s, and 43
councils, and 43 sets of aldermen and dog-catchers,
without abolishing these existing functionaries.
All the present pomp and riot were to be main-
tained, but there was to be a great extra council
piled on top, so that there would be 44 mayors and
about 800 aldermen and town-clerks, all to muni-
cipally govern less than 500,000 people. And, so
long as the drawing up of schemes of municipal
union is left to aldermen, instead of being taken
up by intelligent citizens, they will go on like
this. What would rouse them to enthusiasm,
however, would be a scheme for establishing a
Greater Sydney Council, and also having 88
mayors and 1600 aldermen. If that plan could be
devised, the air would be black with aldermen
rushing to express their approval and enthuse for
union.
A DISTINCTION.
BUSH J.P. (to drunk): "Ten shillings for con-
tempt of court."
DRUNK: “ No! Not con-contempt of coort, but
con-contempt for YOU, you -!”


PALING’S PIANOS
Ave Popular Pianos because they tv ear so well and always
give satisfaction .
MATCHLESS EXCELLENCE
LUSCIOUS QUALITY OF TONE
W. H. PALING & CO.
LTD.
Established 1853.
CATALOGUES
POST FREE.
EASY
TIME PAYMENTS.
338 George-st., Sydney.
57 Queen-st., Brisbane.
Hunter-st., Newcastle.
PIANOS
ORGANS •=#
VIOLINS
1 CORNETS
BANJOS
PALING & CO.
LTD.
ARE
SOLE
AGENTS
FOR
Steinway Pianos
Brinsmead Pianos
Lipp Pianos
Feurich Pianos
Uebel Pianos
Ecke Pianos
Victor Pianos
Belling Pianos
BEST FOR
TONE
TOUCH
VALUE, and
DURABILITY
GUITARS J
MANDOLINS 1
POLYPHONS
ESTEY ORGANS
EVERY
KNOWN
MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT
THE
BEST
AND
CHEAPEST
W. H. PALING & CO. LIMITED, 338 George Street, SYDNEY
(Branch Offices: QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.)
The little Bill of Griffith, M.L.A., provid-
ing for the sacking of Cornstalk J.’sP. who become
bankrupt, are guilty of indictable offences, or
otherwise become subject to well - founded
suspicion, was rejected in N.S.W. Assembly
by 44 votes to 18. Evidently each of the 44
knew that the J.’sP. in his electorate couldn’t
stand inspection, and wouldn’t thank him for
giving them an opportunity to prove their
innocence. The S.M. Herald got a good old
expression off its chest in this matter ; it said the
Bill was “inquisitorial.” And that sounded just
as terrible as if it had been hypodermic or equi-
lateral. For that matter, when the Herald
engages a new clerk aren’t the inquiries it makes
into his previous character inquisitorial ? And
shouldn’t the character of a man who is entrusted
with power to send his fellows to gaol be inspected
as carefully as that of the man who is entrusted
with the petty cash ?
A measure to prevent unqualified persons
passing themselves off as qualified doctors, and
thereby getting medical fees under false pretences,
and killing or torturing the unfortunates who
ignorantly trust them, is making better progress
than usual through N.S.W. Parliament. It pro-
Eoses to let the quack and medical fraud pursue
is nefarious way just as before, except m one
particular—he must not assume titles not rightly
his. He isn’t to be completely abolished, because
“ the liberty of the subject” to entrust not only
his own life but that of his wife and children to
some ignoramus who may kill them, or cripple
them for life, must not be interfered with. By
the same logic a tailor should be allowed to com-
mand a ship provided he doesn’t profess to be a
qualified captain. The liberty of the shipowner
to entrust his vessel to a tailor, and the sacred
right of the passengers and crew to sail in a vessel
navigated by a tailor if they choose to do so, should
not be interfered with. The system under which
tailors are not allowed to command ships is
tyranny.
The Fat Man is particularly angry about
■ the idea of Victoria voting as one constituency for
the election of the six Federal Senators ; the
chances are that six democrats will be elected
whereas if the State was cut into six electorates
: the Stout Person could almost certainly carry one
•of them. And just here ex-M.L.C. Sargeant
comes forward with an idea. He proposes to cut
the State into six divisions, and let each division
• choose one Federal Senator at a mook election,
just to see which man can command the most
support, then nominate the six at the real Federal
■ election. He reckons they would then go in with
a devastating whoop, and it would really, though
; not nominally, be an election by constituencies.
Yet it is quite possible that out of the six men
•elected by the divisions, not one would get a show
'when he went for election by the State voting as
■ a whole, and that would badly upset Sergeant’s
'banana-barrow. Barton’s case showed that the
'man who could command an overwhelming
'majority in the State as a whole might easily be
‘the one that no separate constituency wanted.
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. reports
Tor week ended Saturday, 22nd, that affairs in the world
of wheat have been somewhat less blue. On Monday
week cabled news was received that London market was
improving and a better demand was in evidence in conse-
quence, and a considerable quantity of the “old grain”
was disposed of at 2s. 9d. to 2s. lOd. per bushel for prime
samples ; 2s. Bd. to 2s. BJd. for F.A.Q., and 2s. 3d. to
2s. sd. for chickwheat. The number of sacks that have
reached this market during 1899-1900 is a record, but
owing to area under crop and climatic conditions the
coming season promises to beat it clean off the field. ♦
It is estimated that the N.S.W. public
servants have contributed 88 per cent, of the
entire capital of the Superannuation Fund, while
the Government, which has managed the whole
concern, has contributed less than 12 per cent.
In other countries it will be found that the most
solid pension schemes are those in which the
company, or government, as the case may be,
subsidise the employes’ contributions pound for
pound, and it is noteworthy that in such schemes,
employes are fully represented on their boards of
management. It is indeed monstrous that public
servants of N.S.W. have not had representation
in the control of a fund which they themselves
almost entirely provided.
TF you read the Testimonials I publish each day,
you will learn something of what
VITADATIO
The Great Herbal Hemedy,
IS DOING.
Doctors Differed Again
BUT
VITADATIO
CURED.
Read what Mr. Bayswater writes.
Perth, June 5, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —I have been invalided for about 2 years and
3 months. The doctors treated me for Inflammation of
the Lungs, Bronchitis, and Pneumonia, but failed to cure
me. I used to suffer with very severe pains through my
back and chest, and had a very nasty cough. I was in
the Perth Hospital three weeks, but the doctor told me
he could do no more for me, and that I was as well as he
could make me. I was laid aside for 12 weeks at Fremantle.
The landlady of the Club Hotel advised me to try VITA-
DATIO, which I have done, and after taking four bottles
lam now in splendid health. I will be pleased to answer I
any enquiries that any sufferer may require in the hope
that my humble testimony may be the means of leading
others to health.
Yours respectfully,
(Signed) FREDERICK DAVIS BAYSWATER.
Witness: W. J. Fist, Perth.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s 6d; Small Size, 3s (id.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s Gd.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
Ttr . WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
n
for Speed and Durability.
m
I
for Comfort and Reliability.
mn
Outpace and Outlast all other tyres.
ROADSTER
mn
are Guaranteed for 12 months.
lilllllifcMjfe
are only Genuine when the Cover
and Tube are embossed with this
m
TRADE
MARK.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
150 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY,
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


“ Westralian ” to The Bulletin :—
In Review oe Reviews, last issue, appears an article by
a clerk in the office of A. P. Matheson, M.L.C., on the
Federal Campaign in W.A. The writer is described as
secretary of the Fed. League, a position he never held.
Zollner was the first secretary, and Fowler succeeded
him. Both did good work. Frank Wilson, M.L.A.,
Kingsmill, M.L.A., Briggs, M.L.C., Gregory, M.L.A.,
Editor Forster, of Albany Advertiser, Editor O’Connor,
of North Coolgardie Herald, James Gardiner, Farmer
Warren, of Katanning, good old Port, of Bunbur3’, Mayor
Fimister, of Kalgoorlie, and Sommers, of Coolgardie, and
Pearce, of Trades and Labor Council (to mention a few),
each did more for the federal cause than Matheson, but
they are not mentioned at all, while Matheson’s name
appears in every second paragraph. George Leake and
Walter James are named casually as sub-assistants to
Matheson. Leake’s great services in breaking down the
Forrest opposition to Federation are not spoken of,
Matheson’s clerk being in a hurry to catch the mail.
Some time back, Gov. Ranfurly (M.L.)
sent his carriage down to Wellington wharf to
meet a friend. As the regulations re carriage-
traffic on the wharf are stringent, the officials
did not allow the vice-regal robbo to pass, and the
visitor —haw ! —had to walk from his steamer to
the wharf-entrance. The Harbor Board backed
up its officials, but informed H.E. that, it notified
beforehand, it would see that no inconvenience
was caused him for the future. Yet Premier
Seddon actually put this forward as a reason for
refusing to re-nominate ex-chairman J. Hutche-
son to the board !
The latest result of the struggle to go one
better in the coupon business is a system devised
by the Melbourne firm of George and George.
The old idea was that the collector had to save up
a certain number of coupons before getting any
value for them, and the value of unpresented
coupons was so much profit to the man who ran
the scheme. The Melbourne firm now gives its
own coupons to the extent of Is. in the £ on cash
purchases and redeems the coupons immediately
in money or goods. Also the value of the coupons
not presented for payment is to be formed into a
separate fund, and persons making £25 worth of
purchases, receive a certificate entitling them to
share in that fund, which is to be divided half-
yearly. Of course the man who gives coupons to
the amount of Is. in the £ redeemable immedi-
ately, and divides • the unclaimed-coupon fund
among his customers, will naturally be followed
by the man who gives Is. 3d. in the £,
or who redeems his own shilling coupon at
fifteenpence-farthing, or who is even more
immediate than the other man ; and the man
who undertakes to double the unclaimed-coupon
fund out of his own pocket will jjrobably follow.
And finally there will arise the Ultimate Crusher-
—the man who gives a 5s. “ Tattersall’ssweep
ticket and a drink with each £1 purchase, so that,
by buying a cheap suit or three shirts, you may get
a £5000 prize and live in affluence ever after.
There was a time when two rival steamship co.’s
running between Liverpool and Dublin fought
each other so bitterly that at last one co. carried
steerage passengers gratis, while the other carried
them gratis and also gave every one a loaf. The
coupon business is likely to come to something
like that in the end. The last development before
the burst should be the man who doubles his
prices and gives 10s. worth of Coupons in the £.
TO DARKEN GRKY HAIR.
Lockycr’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Loek-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
The
Authoress of
“BOOTLE’S
BABY,
99
says
“ Most
decidedly .
use KOKO,’
it
will
stop
your
hair
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myself. It is a
nice clean preparation too
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dan drift, Prevents
Hair FalTing, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair. ■=, 2 6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, S'ores, &c.
THE KGKO MARICOPAS CO.. LTD.
16, Bevis Marks, London, England.
YORK HOTEL
ADELAIDE.
B. B. ROENNFELDT.
Government Notices.
Postal and Electric Telegraph Dept.,
General Post Office,
Sydney, 10th September, 1900.
rpENDERS are invited for the performance, from the Ist
J- January next, of a large number of Mail Services
throughout the Colony, and will be received at the Gene-
ral Post Office up to noon on Monday, the 15th October
next. Tenders must be addressed to the Deputy Post-
master-General, Sydney, and endorsed “Tender for Con-
veyance of Mails.” For full particulars see Government
Gazette, a file of which is kept at every Post Office in the
Colony.
7a 18 W. P. CRICK.
EIGHT-HOUR DEMONSTRATION
and SPORTS—^-
AT THE
Royal Agricultural Grounds, Moore Parli,
—ON —
MONDAY OCT. Ist, 1900.
£lOOO in Prizes.
Grand Art Union
FIRST PRIZE value £4OO
SECOND PRIZE value £lOO
THIRD PRIZE value £55
Under the sanction of the
Hon. the Attorney-General.
—AND—
-158 other Valuable Prizes.
AN ATTRACTIVE SPORTS PROGRAMME
Prizes value £l5O.
Including BICYCLE RACES, GRAND MAYPOLE and PHYSICAL DRILL
CONTESTS for all Schools, PONY RACES and other Interesting Events.
GRAND PROCESSION of the Societies through the City, starting at 10 a.m.
DANCING ALL DAY. HOT AND COLD WATER FREE.
Ticket—One
ShiSTmg
Including Admission and Chance
Art Union.
THOS. H. THROWER, Secretary.
Trades Hall, Goulburn-street, City.
n
BRANDT’S PATENT
NANP ICE-MAKER
FOR
HOUSEHOLD
USE.
MAKES
ICE TN TEN (10)
MINUTES !
EVERY WIFE HER OWN
ICE-MAKER !
This machine will produce ice in any climate, no matter how hot.
LATEST ICE-CREAM FREEZERS, which require no turning of handle. 155.,
20s. and 255. each.
BRANDT BROS
236 Pitt-street, Sydney; and
422 & 424 Elizabeth.st., Melbourne.
EPAIRS A
R
E
P
A
I
R
S
Owing to the tremendous increase of Watch and Jewellery Repairs which we are receiving daily from all parts
of the country, ice wish to notify our numerous patrons that we have opened a SPECIAL COUNTRY
REPAIRING DEPARTMENT? tmd having secured the services of a most Competent Staff of Watchmakers
and Jewellers obtainable in Australia, we are in a position to execute all Kinds of Repairs at most Reasonable
Rates. Estimates forwarded and first-class workmanship guaranteed and promptly despatched. Designs
furnished for Remodelling the most old-fashioned Jewellery into the most unigue up-to-date and modern styles.
as u cl < - cc a)
3 Lucky Bella, Chain and Bamboo, 10s 6d.
Gold HEART and CHAIN BROOCH, 9s (id.
Set with Pearls and Red or Blue Stones, 21s
Gold Name or Motto Brocch, 8s 6d;
Plain, without Name, 7s tid.
Solid Gold
Bird and
Heart BROOCH
5s 6d.
Gold Motto Brooch, 11s 6d.
Also, same style in Souvenir, Regard,
Good Luck, and Mizpah.
«0
2 Gold Bars, set with 2 Diamonds, 1/s 6d.
A
sss
Z2S
" olid old and Real Am thyst, 8s 6d.
Three Patterns.
Gol) Curb and Heart Brooch, ss.
Without Heart, 4s.
¥&
Solid Gold, with Raised Bird and Forget-
me-not, or with any Name, 1 s Od.
c :
m
Gold Mizpah, Cross, and Dove BROOCH,
Latest Novelty, 11s 6d. 6 Different Patterns.
SiMlill
mm m.
Solid Gold
Lover’s Knot
and Heart
BROOCH, 5s 6d
Solid Gold Cross, Mizpah and Ivy, 11s 6d.
6 Different Patterns.
New Gold Bar i, set, with Real
Amethyst. Special Value, 12s (id.
Our Gold Novelty BROOCH, 17s (id, with
Octagon Amethyst and Pearl Bird.
m
Er 6 *;
New Gold Bird BROOCH, Bs.
500 other Patterns.
mn
LATEST
NOVELTY.
Cartridge and
Torpedo
SLEEVE LINK,
Solid Gold,
13s 6d pair.
POST FREE. | f,
in i.els & 1 Ruby
ia ' \ it
'.v, \
1 Sapphire, 30s.
H
SOLID GOLD BROOCH.
Any Name or JVlotto, with Raised Lucky
Wishbone and Bell and Chain Pendant.
Or with Heart Pendant, 10s 6d.
m,
mr~
m
4|g
ip
3 Gold Bars, set with G Peans.
9c., 15s ; 15c., 22s 6d.
pi
“iff
Gold 2-Bar Pearl BROOCH.
9c., 10s 6d ; 15c., 17s 6d.
S7"£r"T.'' : v?rv''T'y'v :
Solid Gold BROOCH, Plain, ss.
With any Name or Motto, 5s 6d.
Parisian Gem-Set Novelty Flv Safety Pin
BROOCH, 1 Fly, 2s ; 2 Flies, 3s ;
3 Flies, 4s each.
Solid Gold 2-Heart and Lover’s Knot BROOCH,
set with 1 Diamond'and Ruby, 15s.
15c., 1 Diamond and 2 Rubies or Sapphires, 425.
m
0
Magnificent BROOCH, 15c. Gold, set with 5 Dia-
monds and 2 Rubies, Sapphires, or Opals, 70s.
GOLD CRESCENT
BROOCH,
JBR
SX 3X3
Set with Lo ely Pearls or Pearls and Turquoise,
2 s Od ; smaller size, 17s (id.
2 Lovjlv Pearl-set Gold Birds, 17s 6d
Latest Novelty Gold BROOCH, set with Rubies
and Diamonds, 21s.
'•*///
Our
Only
Australian
Address:
A
90 KINS STREET,


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d. *
Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY^FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
... and .. .
in Plain Cover.
m
.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alf aline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
• • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
Alfaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERE, RASSMTJSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR AT/L COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials.
Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER till your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to oure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 35.-and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders —Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassm us sen’s Head Office fi47 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
BRISBANE : 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
31 EL BO URNE: 150 Bourke-street (opp. Eastern Markets),
ADELAIDE : 151 Bundle-street (near Yorlc Hotel).
N.Z., WELLINGTON: 91 Lambton Quay.
PERTH: Hay-street (opposite Wiedenbach’s).
KALGOORLIE: Hannan-street (next Lindell’s).
EOULDER^CITJ^j^Fiesse-street.
FREMANTEE \ Henry-street.
The great electrician Preece, it is cabled,
has discovered a method of wireless telephony
across the sea a distance of 8 miles.
A Kimberley (S’Africa) correspondent
gossips to The Bulletin
It does not appear to have heen hitherto mentioned
that in Kimberley was discovered a house equipped with
telegraphic apparatus, the wires leading to the Boer camp
outside. It was through this means that the funeral of
the engineer Labram was shelled during its progress to
the cemetery. Labram, the man who designed “Long
Cecil,” was preparing for dinner when a Boer shell blew
him to bits. The Boer custom was to cease bombarding
daily at 5 p.m., but the hour fixed (8 p.m.) for the funeral
was duly communicated and the procession shelled.
Kimberley is De Beers, pure and simple, for the huge
co. dominates everything. There is here little or no fluc-
tuation in businesses, trade being the same year in and
year out. This is due to the fixity of the output and con-
sequent limitation of the wages total. The full staffs are
there or thereabouts and likely to the best tiling
outsiders can do is to keep away. '
People are war-curio mad in S’Africa. Anything will
do—from bits of exploded shells to fragments of the
“ Queen’s chocolate” boxes. At a recent auction sale in
Kimberley I saw a dozen siege postage-stamps passed in
at £3, and a Kruger sov. at £3 15s. A Mafeking brick-
colored sixpenny-stamp is now worth about £l5 !
Hundreds of Britishers are flocking to S’Africa from all
quarters of the Empire every week, and for what? Is it to
see a black man work ? For the present and for some time
to come, yes 1 Said blaekfellow is everywhere equal to the
occasion.' He has been taught the trades by the Britisher
and he holds fast. You will find him coach-builder, ca,b-
driver, policeman, shop-keeper, barber, farmer, con-
tractor, miner, etc., etc., right through the whole gamut,
and the Britisher is pondering what is left, after all the
fighting.
Gazing upon the graves of the Scots who fell at Modder
River and taking in at a glance the nature of the veldt
and the kopje rising therefrom, one is inclined to curse
the man who ordered the unfortunates to take such
positions by storm. Most of the kopjes are mere big
heaps of large, loose rocks packed anyhow (by Nature) one
upon the other, so that a man would have to seek a resting
place for his foot before he could advance, and his eye
would be off the enemy half the time. The lack. of
artillery may be advanced as a reason for storming, but
why should the wealthiest nation on earth lack artillery ?
HAVE YOU
A OAD LEG
»niiii^ 0ll °«I that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
Mefs^'m,? r fl^J nflal H m “ ,i 2 n an<l swollen that when you
Sion v'Tf Ur dn ® e , r on *he inflamed part it leaves the impres-
the rem Life s U vn, C , r i! he sl I'P ? ou , lla ! c Poison that defies all
never ™ you u a T e tned, which, it not extracted, you
you Perhans V l r : bl “, K ° 0,1 sufferin g till death releases
ulcerated h? ee ? arc swollen . the joints being
may be diseofnttrttd Wlt *i the ankles > round which the skin
if tflowed to S’ th .? 1 re J ma ? be wounds ; the disease
walk Yor m„v 1 r;‘ U bcpr've you of the power to
medical attended various hospitals and had
advised to sV. hn.it tp been t to, - d your case is hopeless, or
CURK YOtl b T intu mpUta t! on i but do "°t. lor I CAN
Others have faiVd ta n y,,eihaps ! but I WILL. Because
KendatoncVfor reason for not now being cured.
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS
Houseinatdt. £ erta *o remedy for the cure of Bad L
ALBERT ’ %°T 'W- Per b Cb x em^pa S r'e o d re b 9 y
Agents •. EIJ<IOTT nev I p ndo Vl n ’ England,
look foi therpirUtnrori ' *’ byd , ney - \ Purchasers should
green label o/each box M %™ a d rk Co °^ e g^ SBho PP w «® ■
Medical.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
m
M EDICATOrt.
C'< ATARItH is inflammation of the
v - y lining- membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smeli, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Pour Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non>e Catarrh C6re Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/0
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
ASTHMA CURB
GRIMAULT’S ,
mpiAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMA.ULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Dr. Boswell's ™°ii»S|| FNT PILLS.
■XT ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
J > TIYE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. JEST" Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Aarents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Druggists,
292 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Medical.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
E.
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS oi
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
rNLOROPYN
Hate*
30 Days’ Trial.
nm
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleetrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Eleetrie Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
$
f Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor:- STEPHEN GREEN,
210 Lambeth Ed., London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyefe or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,'
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
> administering E(JCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mrs. WALSH E’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
Famous Pills are now universally used through-*
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, 6s. 6d,
per box. Write to A. C. Co., 559 Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says : “Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
Oyer
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
$1
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
inventor op Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
use Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Stores' CS * nces IS ‘ I i anc * 2s. 9c!. each of all Drug’
Sole Makers: BEACH & BAENICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPORT, England.
DEAT
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
ICompletcly overcome Deafness
■and Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
rto the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
i A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.j Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Addkess L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.


PLEASURE in your Bicycle riding depends on
the Bicycle. There never has been any question
about the EASY RUNNING MASSEY - HARRIS.
It has always given satisfaction.
Factories—Toronto. Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney. Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free en application.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 886 GEORGE STREET,
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
SYDNEY
A Woman’s Agony.
“ I have great pleasure in testfying to the good
results I have obtained from the use of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills,” writes Miss Ethel Brooks, 22
High-street, Kew, Vic. “For the past five years
I have suffered the greatest agony with pains in
the back aiid head. Life almost became a burden.
My ailment was kidney trouble. After trying
several leading doctors I had given up in despair,
but a friend advised me to try these pills. I did
so, and after taking the third bottle I am now able
to go about my daily household duties, and,
happy to say, am quite cured. You may make
this public, and accept my thanks for the good
results obtained.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
stand alone as a perfect blood purifier, and
positively cure biliousness, indigestion, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, and blotches. Price, Is. per
bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole proprietors,
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian
Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. They are packed
in amber bottles, and full name blown thereon.*
+
Contributors to the N.S.W. Public Service
Superannuation Fund have, since its inauguration,
paid in no less than £825,482 ; the interest on that
sum added year by year increasing it to £1,035,368.
The Crown, during same period, has only con-
tributed £lOO,OOO. On the other hand, according
to the reports of the Public Service Board, the
Crown has been assisted in saving a sum of not
less than £1,616,000 in salaries, by placing officers
on the Fund before they reached the retiring age
to the extent of £214,107. And yet the State had
no more right to shove these retrenched officers
on to the Fund than it had to shunt them on to
the A.M.P. Society.
Piles and theie Cure. —Mr. Frank Buckhurst,
Chemist, Mutual Store Buildings, Flinders-street,
Melbourne, has now a stock of the famous
“Cannalin” remedies, so successful in the treat-
ment of the worst forms of this complaint. Copies
of the pamphlet by Albert Sharp, entitled “Piles
and the Way to Cure Them,” sent free on applica-
tion —or from the Sydney depot, 257 George-st.
IDEAL TYRES
•Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO..
Ideal Tyre Coy
RICHMOND, VICTORIA;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
Y*
*
Why are “RED BIRDS” SO GOOD?
*
Because the manufacturers build for competition with the best on earth. They must
put only the latest and best of everything- in their bicycles. Buy a locally-built break-
neck and where are you ? In the repair sho~ u -’ i! ■ '
RED BIRDS’
*
lop half the time.
are the CHEAPEST in the end.
*
*
H
w\ ~3\
Factory :
Brantford,
Canada.
Branches :
Swanston-street, Melbourne, Vic.
Rundle-street, Adelaide, S.A.
Edward-street, Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Goold Bicycle Co.
Headquarters for Australasia:
64 King-street, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTION’S.
The heavy-weight bruising struggle ’twixt Tim
Nolan (Sydney) and Joe Cullen (Melb.) on Saturday night
was an eye-opener. Both scaled about 12st.— Cullen the
lighter, if anything. They bore into each other, banged,
bashed, roughed and clinched. Joe peppered with his
left. Tim smothered mostly till Joe gave a chance, then
rushed and swung punches that staggered every time
they made impact. Cullen went prone often, but
wouldn’t stay longer than he could help. Once referee
M’Donald sprawled over him. Again all three were down
together. Crowd stood up often and roared with excite-
ment. ’Twas a rough-and-tumble, hit-anywhere scramble
from end to end. Science was off the bill completely, but
writer has rarely seen so much real down-right fight in
many big boomed 20-round battles as during the ten
minutes Nolan and Cullen were at work. Both got rough
usage and bled freely, without the faintest semblance of
flinching. Cullen would try and catch ropes or posts
sooner than fall, and then couldn’t get up quick enough
to be fighting again. Ultimately the police gave the
“ office,” the battle was stopped, and Nolan goo the
money. Cullen could hardly have seen another round
through.
• • * *
On Monday night at Gaiety A.C. (Sydney),
the so-far unbeaten Otto Cribb will be up against the
toughest thing he has yet tackled, for all previous victims
weren’t near the same class as Mick Dunn, who owns the
Australian middleweight supremacy. The fact that Mick
says “ Well, if I don’t beat Cribb he won’t beat me,"
makes it appear as if he is impressed with the seriousness
of his situation. Sturgeon kept off several rounds, and if
he could do so Dunn certainly can. Money up totals £lOO,
and winner is to get 75 per cent, of what should be a big
gate. There’ll be heaps of cash behind Otto, but it
doesn’t look as if t’other side will respond to any very
great extent. Mick and Cribb had a willing go for a
round or two when the Maorilander first came here ; it was
a trial arranged by Foley, but Otto has come on a heap
since, so that no line can be taken on that. Writer
thinks they’ll both stay the agreed-up n 20 rounds,
though it’s quite possible one may get the other out be-
fore then, for the thing’s genuine enough.
-** * •
“Micko” Walsh supplied a big surprise-party
for Mick M'Carthy at Victoria Hall, Melb., Saturday
night. Latter undertook to stop former inside 20 rounds
but ran against a snag, for he never held his own a
moment, was down 9sec. nine different times in second t
round, and got such a torrid 3min. of it in the third that
the rag was skied for him. Mick was fairly good once but
has been out of the game for some time ; he had a couple
of fights in America .years ago. His brother Billy got a
decision over Jem Hall and put up some good battles
with Dooley, Slavin, Fitzsimmons and co., and is the only
man who ever knocked out old “ ironbark” Burge. Last
time writer heard o.f Billy lie was in the cotton business
at Galveston (Texas) and may have been among the
12,000 who perished there for aught that is known to the
contrary.
* * * *
Vancouver mail brought details of Fitzsimmons’
win from Akron giant Ruhlin, in New York, Aug. 10. 15,000
people looked on, and “gate” returned 70,00,id01., of which
winner banked 26,250 and loser 8,750. They literally fought
each other into helplessness, but the Australian always
saved enough to make the knock-out punch convincing
once it got home. The usual hand-shake had barely
taken place when they were at it. Give-and-take was the
game from end to end. Fitz was fiercely aggressive all
the time. Giant Ruhlin (15st.) towered over Fitz. (12st.)
like a dray-horse alongside a thoroughbred. Result
was in doubt a dozen times till the sixth round, when
Fitz. dropped Ruhlin cold as an iceberg. Bob looked, as
always, the “ lean and slippered pantaloon ”, of pugdom,
but in reality was a crouching bundle of seasoned sinews.
He kept close to the Yankee Brobdignag, flogging away
and at times fiddling. His knees were bent on
occasions, and his gait wobbly; his bald and bony
head often rocked again from the force of the giant’s
punches, but there was no sign of dizziness about the
freckle-fisted fighter. He went into Ruhlin immediately
“time’’was heard and began to slug. Ruhlin bashed
straight from the shoulder and beat Fitz back again and
again. The first was the giant’s round, but the next went
t’other way a bit. Both “ chivvies” were badly bruised
by the end of round three, and Ruhlin bled like the stuck
pig of tradition.' There was a ragged gash alongside
Bob’s left eye, and shining lumps stood out on forehead
and temple. Fitz took Ruhlin’s left full in the face fre-
quently and still kept after the “ Buckeye.” The pon-
derous one evidently didn’t have that boasted smashing
punch with him that night. Twice the M.L. freak ham-
mered his man clean across the square and brought him
down the second time. Fifth was a remarkable round ;
neither troubled about science. Swings, hooks and
straight jabs landed in faces without meeting opposition ;
Fitz’s were most telling. Later Fitz. fell back on tricki-
ness. From inception of sixth 3 mins, he was atop of
Gus hammering him to his knees early. The big fellow
stood erect again. Fitz feinted with his right—Ruhlin
came, then the lathy one’s left crashed against the bulky
one’s jaw with a collision that could be heard every-
where, and the fight was over. Gus lay inert; it took
him all night to get round.
* * * *
“ Old Timer” : The sporting world looks upon
Bob Fitzsimmons as a wonder —can’t understand why a
man of 39 fights is so full of ginger. Now, Jem Mace was
verging on 40 when he beat Tom Allan for U.S. champion-
ship. Black Richmond had seen 42 when he tackled Tom
Cribb, and was within three years of 60 when Carter went
under to him. Worth mentioning that Richmond didn’t
begin fighting till he had passed 30. Though born in
1751, Joe Ward didn’t have his first “ dust up ” till 1788,
when he beat the Irish top-notcher, Reynolds. Old
“ Ironbark” Jim Burge, of Sydney, was takingtrouncings
(each of which would have killed half-a-dozen ordinary
pugs) and winning battles long after 40. Fitz. has an
advantage which most of those named did not possess—
he is of most determined character, and looks after him-
self well.
* * * *
The fashionable ’Frisco Olympic Club wants
champions from this side to compete against the world’s
amateurs in Feb. or March next. Trouble is where are
they to come from. Writer mixes a lot in the game,
but hasn’t for a long time seen a really good amateur pug.
in Svdney. Since the day of George Seale, Jack Vallen-
tirie, dead Dick Sandall.'and burly heavy-weight Harry
Beckett, we’ve had nobody standing out as remarkable,
nor do we hear of any in adjoining States. Ever since L.
Foley (first) and old York-street (Sydney) club put up
their shutters the high-class brand of non-professional
has been rare. If Peter Jackson’s projected ben. pans
out decently he’ll probably get to work on whatever raw
material is available. The sable warrior purposes opening
an exclusive gentlemen’s club with up-to-date appliances
for exercising, and will arrange big fights once monthly,
admitting only members and friends in same manner as
the swell London National Sporting Club. This should
catch on, and if conducted as outlined will fill the bill
nicely.
• • * *
That outcrop of trouble between “books” and
proprietary at Kensington some years ago—Sydney City
Tatt.’s—got through with its first race meeting at Rand-
wick on Saturday, and scored well in the way of attend-
ance and management.
* * * *
The committee running City Tatts. first meet
at Randwick on Saturday, uncorked wine during the
afternoon and turned on the tap of reminiscence. Lands
Minister Hassall told that he had been in the game in all
parts of the continent —as far as the Gulf —when a man
needed to be smart to hold his own. Audience was not
informed how “ Tom ” 11. got on in the struggle. Mr. G.
E. Rus ljones said he was an ’oss-owner 30 years back and
raced, among others, Spring Blossom, dam of famous
Sprig O’Myrtle. Eighteen-stunner Harry Dawson topped
’em all: he claimed having piloted winner of first steeple
at Randwick home when up on Chatterbox in ’62.
MR. A. W. EALES, Champion Pigeon-shot
of Australia.
Photo, by Kerry & Co., Sydney.
W. Delaney rode four winners at City Tatts.*
initial meet on Saturday.
• * * *
“Old Timer”: Among all references to big
performances by individual jockeys at various meetings-
haven’t seen any mention of Tom Hales’ feat when, at
V.R.O. Autumn gathering in ’BB, he won on Carlyon (3 ;
times), Volley, Abercorn, and Cranbrook (twice each),
and Lady Betty and Ambition once each.
• * * *
Worth a line that Moravian, winner of Hurdles-
at Randwick on Saturday, was among the “ not wanted ”
lot for S’Africa ; so was Brokerage, who previously won
on same course. Explanation in latter case was that he
“ pulled too hard,” but authorities wouldn’t stand former'
at all.
* * * *
Paul Pry must be a tough ’un. He has been
racing six years, and giving all the States a turn, running
in 82 races, and winning 26. Since Randwick trainer
Tom Payten sold him he has got away with following :
Summer Cup, £lBO ; Kalgoorlie Cup (twice), £250 and
£500; Autumn Handicap, £9O; Birthday Cup, £l2O
Toorak Handicap, £5OO ; Elder Stakes, £l2O ; Adelaide
Cup, £800; Onkaparinga Cup, £350; Autumn Stakes,
£407 ; Birthday Cup, £575; Spring Stakes, £430 ; Craven
Plate, £400; Wycombe Stakes, £320; and Randwick
Plate, £340.
» ■ • * *
Paul Pry, ’tis said, used at one time to run in
blinkers, not from roguery, but through an injury to his
eye by an oat, which, interfering with his sight, caused
him to swerve when other horses raced up to him.
* * * *
Hard to understand why the A. J.C. wants an
explanation because Andorra ran a great deal better at
the A.J.C. meeting than she had done some three weeks
earlier at Newcastle. Three weeks is long enough for a
horse to come on or go “ right off.”
• * * *
The veteran Paris, winner of the Caulfield Cups
of ’92 and ’94, and of many other races here and in Eng-
land, has finally retired and been turned out to grass at
his birthplace, Havilah Station.
» * * *
“ Gun ” : Can’t see why there should be such a
blackguard run on Malster for V.R.O. Derby in face of
fact that Finland and Mariner are still in, and many good
judges are sure Hautboy didn’t reach form in A.J.O.
blue-riband race. Writer will have his bit on Finland if
he faces the flag, as this colt has “ come on ” out of sight
during present season, and looks like continuing to thrive.
See they’re heaping the coin on Malster for Cup too.
Trainer Scobie might have a better one in his stable,,
which includes The Bride and La Carabine, and latter-
may be the “ k’rect pea.” Punters should be careful.
* * * ♦
Cabled that Australian nags Syerla and The-
Grafter figured at Manchester (Eng.) meeting Friday andi
Saturday last week. Former ran second to Ardmore in
De Trafford Hep. (500 sovs.), 1A miles. Grafter won
Prince Edward Hep. (2000 sovs.), II miles. This race
went to Australian Malua —Madcap nag Maluma (8.3 up)*
last year. The Grafter then started with 8.11, but was.
unplaced.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —The anti-tote argument of
“E. and 0.E.” is absurdly thin. He says “it is the-
bookmaker who makes betting—and therefore racing-
possible for men who do bet. It is the ‘ scores ’ and fifties;
of the punters who think they know something that fill
Ike.v’s bag ; the half-sovs. and sovs. of the mug wouldn’t •
pay Ikey for his risk.” As a matter of fact, it is the pub-
lic who make racing (on a big scale) possible by providing
clubs with the means to give away big stakes. And we
have the best of evidence that big stakes can make racing
possible to the best of horse-owners without any assist-
ance from Ikey Mo, the middle-man. Lord Falmouth,
the successful English horse-owner of the ’7o’s, and the
first employer of jockey Fred Archer, never had but one
bet in his life (he bet his trainer’s wife sixpence against
one of his own victorious horses, and gave her
the “tanner” set in diamonds), yet he made a profit
on his racing and breeding studs. Indeed, he couldn't-
have afforded to carry on the game at a loss. Mr. Stead,
in Maoriland, stated a few years ago that he, as a non-
bettor, was racing at a profit, thanks to the increase of
club stakes through the agency of the tote. As to the
allegation that Ikey Mo fattens on the “ knowing ones”
who get the “cream of the market,” it merely goes to-
show that he must profit enormously by the gold contri-
butions of the mugs who “follow the stable”—at a dis-
tance —and get short odds. Anyway, what is the good of
“ E. and O. E.” pretending that Ikey alone makes racing
possible when the tote is already established in South
Australia, Maoriland, Queensland, and Tasmania? We,
who want the tote in other places, don’t care a button
whether I. Moses is a necessity or otherwise. If he be a
necessity, he will continue to exist for his customers,
whilst the machine exists for us. — Mug.
• * * *
Dear Bulletin.—“ M.” (8., 22/9/’00) doubts the
truth of a recent par. about backers trying to pick starters
for the Oup. Well, I have tried the game myself, so I
ought to know. If “ M.” still doubts, let him write to-
— iso
James Nesbit, Tattersall’s Club, Brisbane. I have a
seen the thing done on Charters Towers. I admit t
foolishness, but the statement was correct. —Tint VV iutrß-
« * » *
Bulletin yarn of the Sydney sport who backed
Ampier t’other week, because he was looking at the gas-
jet of “ Dampier” in front of the Criterion Theatre when
the lights on letter “D ” suddenly' disappeared, is a
reminder of some old English Derby' tales. It is recorded
as a fact that on the eve of Ellington’s Derby, a turfman
was passing a certain Wellington Restaurant in Picca-
dilly, or somewhere. A flag that had been hanging from
a window above the gas-lit “Wellington” transparency
suddenly slipped, and the bunting obscured the letter W
from the punter’s view. Whereupon he went and backed
Ellington to win him a small fortune. Another well-
authenticated case was that of a horse-owner driving
down to Epsom in a mail phaeton when a butcher’s cart
nearly brought his vehicle to grief. The butcher went
tearing along the road, with the phaeton in pursuit, and
the butcher’s fast trotter didn’t allow the horse-owner to
get near enough to distinguish more than the word
“ Teddington ” on the back of the cart. So he backed
Teddington and won.
• • • •
Nat. Gould is editing a new venture —a shilling
“ Sporting Annual,” whose first number is to be pub-
lished in London next Nov.
••i • •
Anti-totalisator declaration by Rev. Dr. Elmslie,
of Christchurch, M.L. : “ Were the machine gilded with
the sanction and respectability of law taken out of the
way, the bookmaker with his characteristic repulsiveness
would help, however unintentionally, to lead multitudes
from an evil habit.” Which, though rough on Ikey Mo,, goes
to show how hopeless it is to argue with the average
parson.
• • * *
Pleaded at Essendon (Vic.) court, by a man
charged with street-betting, that he had recently lost his
wife by death, being left with a large family, and had
gone out to “ make a book” to try and pay the funeral
expenses. Fined £2O, Bench accepting £4 deposit and
monthly payments of £l.
• * » *
Children’s luck again. Recently a Sydneyite
gave his two boys fid. to visit the circus, but the door-
keeper assessed their fee at a higher figure, and for want
of the extra money they' left in deep gloom. Resolved to
“ play-up ” their cash somehow, they bought a Chinese
lottery-ticket and gathered-in £2O 15s. This isn’t a
Sunday-school’ story.
• * * •
The usual second edition of J. J. Miller’s sport-
ing pamphlet is now obtainable. The supplement gives
the performances of Melb. and Caulfield Cup horses up to
Sept. 18, hovering the A. J.C. meeting.
* * *
The Eales-Grant contest for the pigeon-shooting'
championship of N.S.W., came off at the N.S.W. Gun-
Club’s Ground, at Botany,' on Wednesday September 18.
Nothing to approach Eales’shooting has ever before been
seen on the ground. He killed every bird of his 100 ; the
first 59 with, absolute perfection ; the 60th, the only' one
he lost, fell dead out of bounds. He shot 79 out of the
100 with his first barrel; and not more than 10 of his
birds required the second barrel, although he did fire his
second 21 times, often as not to make dead sure of birds
'that were fluttering. He shot most of his birds within a
half yard or yard of the trap ; some before they flew
-eight inches. * The man was wound up to mechanical
perfection, nearly every bird being centred, and fall-
ing, cut to pieces, amidst a storm of feathers. Eales’
very quickness was the reason for his losing one. For
that one, a middle-trap bird, sat for a second or two,
.giving the shooter the baulk. When the match began
the betting was 10 to 9 on Eales ; half way through it was
10 to lon him. But there was very little betting. The
bookmakers sat quiet, holding their noses reflectively in
their fists, and admiringly watching Eales mow his
birds down. Before the exhibition several matches
with Eales were mooted ; but when it was over nobody
had a word to say about them. Everybody seemed to
agree that Mr. Eales at present was a good thing to be
avoided. There was perfect order through the day and
absolute stillness whenever a man toed the mark. Only
the men, their seconds, and the club officials were
allowed inside the enclosure ; brother Walter, with an
umbrella, affectionately sheltered Arthur at times from
the sun, while Drury did the same for Grant. Out of the
200 birds only six sat, and not a bird was barred. The
traps fell very evenly all day', averaging well for both
men. And, oddly enough, each man excelled himself on
the most difficult traps, and failed comparatively on the
•easier ones. Eales used 47grs. powderand ljoz. shot; No.
6* in the right barrel and No. 6 in the left; while Grant
used 49grs. powderand IJoz. No. 6 shot in each barrel.
Grant is a deliberate shooter. He seldom downs his
birds inside 40yds., while some of them were over 50yds.
'away when he caught them with the second barrel.
Thus he never gave his birds the penetration that
Eales’ birds received. And so birds that Grant feathered
with both barrels sailed strongly out of bounds. Grant,
however, didn’t drop his bundle, and when at half way he
appeared hopelessly beaten, he went on and lost only one
bird out of his remaining 44. Eales should do well in
England, for although the light is worse there than here
he has proved himself a remarkable shot in a dim light,
being classed by the club as one of its “ ’possum-shooters.”
He’ll be minus one advantage in England, though. He
won’t have Duckenfield station to practise on any day at
any hour he chooses.
‘ * * * *
The 12th annual N.S.W. Public Schools
; Sports meeting was a great success, and was witnessed by
about 33,000 persons. There was an all-round improve-
ment upon last year's display, though the walking-contests
were unsatisfactory exhibitions of trotting, jogging and
go-as-you-please. What is wanted is to remove at once
unfair walkers, so as to give a chance to those who do
walk fairly however slowly. An old lady, after the Junior
•Champion Walk, declared vigorously to the judges that
her grandson (who had comejin first) was the only boy r
who had walked fair from end to end. “ He’s the favorite
• of Mr. Turner(Fort-street head-master) and he never wags
it, and it’s a downright shame it is if he don’t get the
medal—and nothing else but favoritism —so there ! ”
* » • *
The 100yds. championship of N.S.W. Great
Public Schools’ Association at Sydney Cricket Ground,
Friday, was won by A. D. Fisher (C.E.G.S.) 3in. in front
•of N. Barker (Newington College), with E. Cochrane
(S.G.S.) a yard further away, third. Time, 10 7-10.
Same day and occasion H. Henderson (S. Sydney A.A.C.)
secured 100yds. supremacy of N.S.W. by a yard from W.
Lindsay (E. Sydney A.A.C.), who was a like distance
; ahead of S. S, Middleton (Goulburn). Time, 10 4-5.
* * * *
After the fastest and most exciting football of
the season, Melbourne beat Fitzroy (last year’s winners)
•on Saturday, and won Vic. Premiership. Essendon—up
till then well in the running—had been downed by Satur-
day’s winners, the previous week, and for the final
tussle ’Roy started favorites. 20,000 spectators rolled up
and roared themselves hoarse. The Northerners led by 2
points only at half-time ; during third quarter Melb. put
on 2 goals 3 behinds, equal to 15 points, while ’Roy re-
mained stationary; last quarter latter slowly pulled up,
but the Red Legs'lasted well and won by 34 to 30. Both
sides “ played the game,” remembering, no doubt, the
League’s recent punishment of sundry rough players,
also, the fact that on the previous evening a Williams-
town player had been disqualified for life for repeated
breaches of the rules. Though high up the list several
times, Melbourne has not flown the pennant of Premier-
ship since ’75.
Woolabra, between Narrabri and Moree (N.S.
Wales), possesses a sporting curio in the shape of a well-
formed, laid-out football ground, with but one goal-post.
Said that the ground was cleared by navvies, who used
to play spells of half-an-hour, one side only being allowed
to score while their opponents defended the solitary goal
till half-time. In the second half the other team had
its try at scoring. * * »
Dr. Turner, the English cycle authority, on
Hale, the man who cycled 100 miles a day for 12 months :
“ He came to me two days before completing his task,
and immediately on riding 77 miles of that day s 100. His
nervous system was in perfect order, and there was
nothing iri any way to show that he had passed through
any exceptional stress. His pulse was quiet and steady.
His arteries were soft, silky and elastic, and the heart-
sounds perfect. The heart itself was enlarged, the apex
being displaced about an inch and a half downwards and
an inch to the left. There were no signs of circulatory
disturbances. This condition of the heart is what must
be expected in anybody who has led an active athletic
existence, the heart-muscle in such a pefson becoming
enlarged.”
» * * *
Veteran Spofforth still plays cricket in Eng-
land. In a match at Arlingham last month he took seven
wickets for 31 runs, and did the hat-trick. Spoil, was
45 this month.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rowing Ass. Championship Eights, on
Parramatta River, Saturday, resulted in the closest
struggle seen for years—between Glebe and Sydney R.C.’s.
Race was with the tide over 2J miles. Glebe’s form did
not reach the standard of Sydney, but it made up in
power and stamina. It was an exciting neck-andmeclf
battle for fully two miles, then condition asserted itself,
and Glebe shot out at the finish, winning by a length and
a half. Vanquished crew protested that it was “de-
liberately fouled,” but umpire wouldn’t have it ; both
coxswains were to blame. J. J. Daley was unopposed for
the Champion Sculls, and paddled over the course. Mr.
Daley is so superior to all other local amateur scullers
that his entry frightens the lesser lights away, and, as it
is a barren honor at best paddling over the course, it
would be sportsmanlike on his part to in future stand out
and allow the others to make a race of it.
• • * f
Cabled that Australian top-noteber Freddie
Lane dead-heated with ’Ome champion, Derbyshire, in
British furlong supremacy at Birmingham, 17th inst.
Lane was 2yds. best at 154, but the Englishman caught
him on the post. Time given (2.34 4-5) is very fast, being
3 2-5 better than previous world’s best, set up by Lane
when he won same race last year. Derbyshire hasn’t an
equal over 100yds.—his figures are the fastest ever done.
Said that Lane will leave for home next month.
* » * *
In connection with coming Commonwealth cele-
brations, N'.S.W. League contemplates a big cycling car-
nival. Details not yet arranged, but £lOOO prize-money
will be given, including £5OO, or more, for chief event —2
miles.
* * • *
Yankee papers print a lot re ’Murkan negro
“ Majah ” Tavlor’s challenge to the world’s cyclists—best
2in 3 one-mile events for £lOOO. Failing biz. at home
Taylor talks of coming out here. Sprinting is his game,
and there isn’t a man in the land of twang who can come
near him. The world’s best for the mile (1.19) is his.
Said that Taylor was offered £2OOO to go to Paris and race
through the season, but because they wanted him on
Sunday's he declined. A rare bird among athletes truly.
The “ Majah ” has the reputation of being even smarter
than Zimmerman ever was.
* * * *
It is evident that paced races will play a big
part in this season’s racing, if the applications for hire of
the Dunlop motor-pacing tandems can be taken as a cri-
terion. Sports promoters and club secretaries desirous of
engaging these speedy pacing-machines for their race-
meetings should write to the Dunlop Tyre Co., Melbourne,
as soon as possible to ensure obtaining same, as the best
dates are being speedily allotted.


“ALWAYS ON TOP”
AND LIKELY TO
STAY THERE.
DerbO
Tobacco,
Best,
Purest,
Most Fragrant
I ,
UJ,
e iU
\t
ASK FOR IT ALWAYS.
The Modern Art Jewellery Co.,
187 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone 3490
n
18ct. SOVEREIGN PURSES, 95/-
15ct. „ „ 75/-
9ct. „ „ 40/
Sterling Silver SOV. PURSES.
Plain, 7/6 ; Engraved, 8/6.
Sterling Silver
SHOE LIFT and BUTTON HOOK
(in case).
EUCHRE PARTY PRIZEB AND PRESENTS
Sterling Silver Heart-shape
MATCH-BOX, Price, 9/6.
Other Designs in Sterling Silver
from 4/6.
SorcTbroat
“You cannot do better than
gargle with ‘Condy’s Fluid.’ ”
Sir Morell Mackenzie, M.D.
(The Eminent Throat Specialist)
Gargle
with
Condy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL, London, England,
i i - ar e the only Makers.
CONDY’ S FLU ID ’ ’ can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitation.
NOTICE.
THERE have been several Melbourne enquiries
for framed copies of Alf. Vincent’s double-
page picture, “On the Melbourne Block, 1899,”
published in The Bulletin of Dec. 16th last.
The etching, specially printed on 4-sheet card-
board and suitably mounted and framed, can now
be ordered from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch
(Melb.) and The Bulletin Office, Sydney. Each
etching bears the artist’s signature, and the price
is Half-a-Guinea, to cover the cost of framing.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
nno CYCLISTS AND cycle REPAIRMEN .
NT- YOU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINES!
“ IMPERIAL” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rims and
Dunlops.
“IMPERIAL” Special Racers with same fittings.
American 1900 Model Component Sets, complete with
every fitting, all ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze oan build a bicycle
of these sets.
“ MORROW ” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Back Pedal
Brake —saves the rider 40 per cent.
Write for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
Sundries, Novelties and Second-hand Wheels. GOOD
AGENTS wanted where not at present represented. Marine
Oil Engines and Launches—particulars and designs. A
post-card will bring you all information of our lines.
J. F. MoDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Hannan’s Marvellous Mile is the name of the
area including the big mines, and some bad ones, at Han-
nan’s. But it is not a mile in length nor is it a mile
square. If Brownhill Mine is included it is considerably
more than a mile long, and if the poor mines on the
eastern side of the belt are excluded, it is considerably
short of a mile wide, but admitting both those mines the
area may be thus set out The Big Mines : Great Boulder,
Boulder Perseverance, Golden Horseshoe, Lake View
Consols, Ivanhoe. Good, but not great mines: Brown-
hill ; whose greatnessjias mostly departed on account of
its oxodised bodies being rapidly exhausted'and its sul-
phide bodies very limited. South Kalgurli, a mine with
350 ft. of good ground on the right side of the break.
Kalgurli, a mine with one ore-pipe, big at the top,
small at the bottom. Associated Northern, a coming
mine, has all its ore untouched. A good mine established,
with possibility of greatness with more development.
Associated Gold Mines had greatness thrust upon it
by a gouging-out policy oh one narrow rich shute of ore
and by a lying policy concerning the assay-value of the
ore outside it. May yet become a big mine by develop-
ing virgin country, of which it has a good deal; but the
chances are against it. Oroya, in an excellent situation,
one block being surrounded by the Associated, Kalgurli,
and Associated Northern Iron Duke Lease ; the other
block by the Associated Lake View Consols and Central
West Boulder. Has paid one div. and may pay some
more, Dut it will be in the sweet by and bye.
Prospect mines within the area. — Golden Link
has the best position, being between one Lake View lease
and one of the Great Boulder. Has got the Lake View
lode at depth, but so far very poor. Market valuation
absolutely unwarranted. Chaffers, next to the Golden
Horseshoe, has spent a heap of money on prospecting
and found nothing, but must still be regarded as a
good prospect because of its situation. Central
and West Boulder, surrounded by the Associated and
Oroya, a splendid position on the map, has had one lenti-
cular block of oxidised ore, which was good a few feet
below the surface and poor Within 100 ft. of it. Has
crushed tens of thousands of tons without a div., and has
been working at a loss this year. Hainault, the will-o’-
the-wisp of the camp, is just outside the much-cursed
quartzite break, which runs along the N. boundary of the
Ivanhoe and takes a N.E. course through the northern
lease of the Great Boulder, the Boulder No. 1 lease,
Hainault, and the northern portion of the Kalgurli lease.
Probably its course will be more defined in other
leases to the N.E. as mining development proceeds.
Hannan’s Star has had many a crushing, but never a div.
Having used up most of its pay-ore and leased its sulphide
plant to the Brown-hill, this mine must now be regarded
only as a prospect. Lake View South still a prospect,
although it has done so much prospecting that in any
other field in Australia it would have been given up as a
duffer long ago.
Proved duffers within the area. — Lake View
Extended, Trafalgar, Golden Pike and Lake View East,
Kalgoorlie Mint and Iron King. This mine has had some
crushings, but has no pay ore in sight. Ditto the Bank
of England, also the N. Boulder, which deserves its fate
for its lying name ; the Oroya East, belonging to Hannan’s
Proprietary Development Co., which has 24 blocks all
over the field and every one of them a duffer ; the North
Kalgoorlie, Paringa Consolidated. Brookman’s Boulder’s
only remaining hope is the reef it is cutting for at the
900 ft, level ; a bore 5 months ago showed about an oz. for
a good width, but it is impossible to put too little faith in
the assay of a diamond-drill core in formations such as
these, which may be amazingly rich in one spot and disgust-
ingly poor a few feet away. Brownhill Extended has made
some splendid shipments from a run of ore that crossed
at a sharp angle its N. W. boundary. If it only had a little
more ground to the west it might well be placed in
another category, but situated as it is a little more work,
and it is all up with the B.H.E. Shares have been down
to 55., up to £7, and are now under £2. The Adelaide
block of the Associateds : not much work done, it is
true, but its situation and the result of work on other
leases around it gives no encouragement in that direction.
* * * *
There are five distinct ore-belts in the area.
Probably the best is the extreme Western, certainly the
very worst is that on the extreme east. The Western is
represented by the Golden Horseshoe and the Ivanhoe,
taking in the entire length in these two 24-acre blocks.
It is probable, however, that as the break on the northern
boundary of the Ivanhoe dips rapidly north and strikes
rapidly N.W., the Northern block of the Gt. Boulder will
find a continuation of rich ore in the deep sulphide zone.
The next belt or ore-bearing channel is taken in by the
Gt. Boulder two 24-acre leases, with the exception of that
left in the Boulder Main Reef, from 250 to 300 ft. of fairly
good ground. Between the Boulder and the next belt
there is a considerable blank represented by the Golden
Link and most of the Northern block of the Lake View
Consols. This belt runs along near the western boundary
of one L.V. Consols lease and the eastern boundary of
the other, through almost the centre of the Perseverance
and a part of the S. Kalgurli. These three belts are well-
defined, the other two are not; the fourth is repre-
sented by a block or two of very poor ore in
the L.V.C. southern lease, a lenticular mass of
poor oxidised ore in the Central and West Boulder, the
rich but limited and now practically exhausted ore-body
in the Associated worked from Tetley’s shaft, the other
bunches, less rich but quite as erratic, worked from
Waddington and Judd’s shaft, and the other big but ill-
defined ore-body in the Kalgurli. The fifth ore-channel
has been equally erratic, ill-defined, and disappointing,
and if it becomes established that the Brownhill and the
Associated Northern ore-channel is distinct from it, then
it is a duffer from one end to the other. It is represented
by the Kalgoorlie Mint, the Bank of England, and North
Boulder, none of which have any pay-ore in sight and
never had any to brag about. The Oroya has to shut
down because it could not find 7dwt. rock in the oxidised
zone and has not established enough ore in the sulphide
to call itself a mine.
* • » *
£BOOO is said to have changed hands consequent
on the Glenfine No. 1 salting.
* * * m
The Glenfine salting affair recalls another Bal-
larat story of a somewhat similar kind, but in the earlier
instance the brothers concerned did not give the show
away till long after they had dissipated their profits. The
Blue Moon No. 1 Co. was doing splendid business with
three-ounce stuff, and the Blue Moon Extended had just
cut the reef, and was knocking down a trial crushing.
The crushing retorted at the rate of about sozs. to the
ton, and Blue Moon Extendeds went up hand over fist,
only to fall with a dull sickening thud after the hig
crush, which didn’t return even sdwts. to the load. The
scoop on this occasion was engineered by two men. one of
whom worked at the Blue Moon and cabbaged a shirt-
ful of specimens each shift, which were carefully smug-
gled below by his brother who was trucking at the Ex-
tended, and who mixed the stone from the rich mine
with the hungry rubbish at the new one. The faceman
who is honest misses many fine opportunities of dying
rich and respected at 80 to die miserably at 56 of miner’s-
disease.
* * • »
Croydon notes to Sept. 8 : Only the two chief
mills now working ; prolonged drought has stopped the
others. Aug. yield : 1220 J tons quartz, 36930 z., and 2244
tons cyanide, 22720 z. ; but this does not indicate amount
of field’s progress. Principal Aug. crushings: Golden
Gate 3 and 4S. Tribute, 227 tons, 1757J0z.; G. Gate 3 and
4 S. Proprietary, 200 tons, 6370 z. ; Rogers’ G. Gate, 510
tons, sSBoz. ; Moonstone No. 1 S., 90 tons, 3040 z. Aug.
calls, £867 ; divs. for same period, £22,990. G. Gate 3
and 4 Prop, cleaned up again Sept. 4, from a crushing of
895 tons, for 29140 z. Bdwt. ; average per ton, 3oz. sdwt.
3gr. ; average value of gold, £2 13s. sd. per oz. ; average
value of ore, £8 14s. per ton ; average value of crushing,
£7786. Out of this the syndicate "divided £6BOO, at the
rate of £425 per one-sixteenth. Prospecting shafts,
notably Morgan’s Block, which are being sunk to test the
deep ground, are making satisfactory progress. Prospects
of field generally bright. Wealthy outside co. expected
shortly to acquire local properties’ and commence opera-
tions on a big scale.
*•' * *
North Chillagoe Co.: Q. Department of Mines
has called attention to certain omissions in this co.’s
prospectus from the report of Assistant Govt. Geologist
Dunstan. The Sydney crowd running this concern seems
to have made a mess of things, more the result of its own
folly than from any bad motive. Writer suggests that
they now publish the original report verbatim. The pro-
perty is very highly spoken of by experienced and reason-
able people ; in fact, there are grounds for believing that
the block known as the Titana Hill is a fine, fat copper
“ P'g ” that needs no greasing.
“ Trotter ” writes: “ A recent look at the big
mine at Ohillagoe recalls to me the Lake George at Cap-
tain’s Flat, N.S.W. I knew a man who had 1000 shares
therein at 755., which he said he would keep until they
reached £s—and then for a trip round the world. I was
very anxious to get the strength of this mina, and sat up
till 3 one morning in Mrs. Groggin’s hotel listening to
present Agent- General Copeland recounting his adven-
tures in Borneo. He had talked the others to sleep,
including manager Trewenack, when I got his opinion—
‘Sell.’ Next day I advised my friend to unload, but he
wouldn’t, and six weeks afterwards his shares were worth
about ss. He still owns that scrip.”
* * * *
Apropos the proposed extension of raining edu-
cation in Victoria. The directors of schools of mines
and technical colleges are finding that the supply of mere
assayers has more than over-taken the demand ; but the
demand for managers who know something of the practi-
cal side of mining and are also assayers is still greater
than the honest supply. The Adelaide School, which,
having Broken Hill to work on, has been unusually suc-
cessful, is now sending its young men to do hard graft
underground wherever that course is possible.
* * • •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
Reported to the police that one of the
Breelong blacks has outraged a 15-year-old girl at
Cobark Creek. This is just the sort of news that
any observant and reflective person might have
expected to hear. But it is not the kind of news
he would necessarily believe.
The Scandinavians of Sydney seek to have
Mr. Oscar Hellstrom, secretary to the Consulate,
and now Acting-Consul, appointed Consul in suc-
cession to his late uncle, Mr. Falstedt. Mr.
Hellstrom is most popular with the general pub-
lic, and is an earnest and able official possessed of
charming manners and a fund of good stories.
The position in China is simply this :
Germany, backed by sundry other Powers, says
to the ChineseTmperial Govt., “ Hand over to us
the persons responsible for the recent massacres.”
Li Hung Chang (who is willing enough to deliver
up dummy-nobodies, on whom vengeance can be
vicariously wreaked), replies, “Impossible! Your
demands force upon China the necessity of fight-
ing the world.” And who can foretell the result?
"Vic. Contingent Private M'Cance—danger-
ously wounded and captured in S’Africa—re-
turned, the other day, to his native place near
Castlemaine; and, as a preliminary flutter, had to
kiss all the young women thereof. Then there
was a drag, and a band, and some of the inevitable
Queen and Empire; after which the returned
warrior observed that, though the Boer bullet sat
heavy on his chest —being, in fact, still lodged in
one of his lungs—the kind treatment he received
from his captors was a pleasing memory and a flat
confutation, as far as he was concerned, of the
yams about Boer brutality.
Editor Bulletin.—G. H. Reid said re-
cently :
“ As to the despatch of troops to South Africa, if you
want a real ‘yes-no’ specimen, compare N.S.W. Works
Minister O’Sullivan as the British patriot with the same
gentleman in his capacity of editor of the Sydney Free-
man’s Journal."
Now, as O’Sullivan left the Freeman editorship
long before the Boer war was thought of, and as
the Freeman’s Journal has been throughout, dis-
tinctly Pro-Jingo, much to the disgust of many
of its constituents, Reid is either talking
through his neck, guessing, or endeavoring to
touch the pup gently while the aftermath of the
Redwood blunder remains.— Church-Hill.
More backwash. Letter printed in several
Sydney dailies:
Ten months ago on 3rd Nov., 1899, Sydney witnessed
the departure per s.s. Aberdeen of 125 volunteer infantry
for service in S’Africa. I have just seen the widowed
mother of one of those soldiers. She has lately received
a letter from her son, wherein he states that of the 125
who so sailed in Nov. but 35 can now answer the roll-call,
the other 90 are either dead, in hospital, invalided,
or prisoners. Her son also states that the 35 are
absolutely penniless, without proper clothes, in great dis-
tress, and but scantily supplied with food. Here is a
picture of the desolation and misery caused by war, both
at home and abroad. Who can realise the depth of anguish
the mothers, wives and sisters of these 125 men must now
be enduring. Is it not pitiful in the extreme ? Cannot
the survivors of these gallant volunteers, this for-
lorn hope and remnant of patriotic valor, be now
recalled with honor, seeing they have lost 75 per cent, of
their original number ? I appeal, on behalf of the sorrow-
ing relatives bf these men, through your columns, to the
Govt, of N.S.W., and ask if an arrangement cannot be
made with the Imperial Government for their return.
At Poverty Point.
“E.F.”: “The Commonwealth” is hardly likely to be
adopted by J. O. Williamson, or anybody else, as a suit-
able name for a big theatre. It is too suggestive of a
busted management and a co. chasing the treasurer
for a fair division of the profits. But the “ Federal,” or
the “ Dominion,” or the “ Unity,” the “ Century,” or
the “ National,” would fit the house that was lately re-
christened (for the second time) Her Majesty’s. The name
that permits of a short catchy abbreviation is good.
“ Fed,” “ Nat,” “ Dom.”
Poor old St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, has, after many
vicissitudes, been wiped out from the show business and
become a rag-shop. A Bourke-street draper has now
turned it into a store and “ show ’’-room—the latter as in
mockery. St. George’s would bear writing up theatrically.
Amongst those who have “ read,” sung, played, or
made jokes therein were Walter Montgomery, the Caran-
dinis, the Fakir of Oolu, the whole Stewart family in a
lump, Weston and Hussey, Anna Bishop, Madame Cora,
Baldwin, the Hellers, and hundreds of others. St.
George’s saw no more prosperous time than ’69-70, when
it was called “ Weston’s Opera House.” Frank Weston
and Frank Hussey had there the finest negro-minstrel co.
Australia has ever seen. It touched the other “ houses ”
palpably. Nellie Stewart may be said to have made her
first appearance in St. George’s—in 76, when she played
Ralph Rackstraw, in “ H.M.S. Pinafore.” On t’other side
of the street, the Lingards were running the same thing
the Josephine (Alice Dunning Lingard) being the most
beautiful ever seen there.
Tom Fitzgerald has an enthusiastic admiration for Carl
Hagenbeck, the animal-trainer, with whom he lately did
business in Hamburg. “Stands 6ft. 2in. high, slim, and
strong as whipcord, always on the alert, a non-drinker
and non-smoker, and as bright, at 56 years of age, as a
boy of 20.” It was Hagenbeck who sold elephant Lizzie
and the lion, likewise the horse and tiger, to Dan Fitz-
gerald. He is prepared to buy those two “acts’’back
from his Australian friends whenever they care to come
to terms, but meanwhile he has arranged with brother
Tom to ship some more lots of educated animals during
next year. A photo of one of these Fitzgeraldian invest-
ments, with a Polar bear as chief performer, appears in
present issue. The work of inducing lions, tigers, bears,
&c., to perpetrate strange deeds is a matter of years in
some cases, says the patient Hagenbeck. He has experi-
mented with as many as 16 beasts for one trick before he
could strike the necessary combination of docility and
common-sense. And it’s “all done by kindness,” seem-
ingly. The animals greet the tall German with roars of
affection, and rub against the bars of their cages as he
goes around the menagerie and talks to them. All the
same, it is difficult to understand why a Polar bear should
have tender feelings towards the taskmaster who teaches
it to push a tricycle.
“ Count B.”: The Rickardian reply re English lady
ballad-singers (8., 25/8/’00) evidently does not apply to
the alleged “ serios,” many of whom have evidently
secured Australian engagements merely by reason of
“ hubbv ” (who is generally a comedian) being under con-
tract to Rickards. If we can breed ballad-singers, I think
we can also breed serios. If ’Arry would apply his rule,
the next time he goes ’Ome, so that it would work both
ways, he would earn the gratitude of a long-suffering
Australian public.
London Topical Times reports that Amy Castles, who
lives at the Convent du Roule what time she is not attend-
ing Marchesi’s Academy, “ wants to get home very badly,
even if she had to live in the back blocks.” Which will be
something of a shock for Mrs. Doublt day, the Melbourne
“discoverer” of Amy. The little girl from Bendigo is
utterly ambitionless and lacking in artistic temperament.
Even when she was at the height of her Australian
notoriety,'receiving diamond rings, illuminated addresses,
and all sorts of adulation, she told Mrs. 1). that if she
had her own way she would rather be a nursemaid.
Printed that David Belasco “ has presented Mrs.
Brown-Potter with the Australian rights of ‘ Madame
Butterfly.’ The playwright’s telegram, on sailing for
America, was worded as follows: ‘ Butterfly belongs to
me. You can have it for Australia. Good-bye. God
take fond care of you.—Yours always faithful, David
Belasco.’ ” How touching are the pious little ways of
Mummerdom !
Olive O’Hara, son and heir of Melb.’s doughty surgeon,
has been the bright particular star of the Cafb Ohantant
at the Children’s Hospital Bazaar with his marvellously
clever sleight-of hand tricks. Young O’Hara is a medical
student in private life, and his conjuring is understood to
be undertaken in direct defiance of “ the old man’s ” dirty
left. Nathless, it is likely that the lad—he is just 20-
will appear as a professional before long. For tolerably
good surgeons are many whereas gifted conjurors are few.
“ Yarra” : The American invasion is growing rapidly.
Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, is now running two Yankee
stars; the previous season was bossed by two more from
the land of the spangled banner, and the co. was chiefly
American. Mrs. Potter and sundry other Yanks are
coming, and at the Bijou the three star turns are supplied
by ’Murkan teams—lrene Franklin, the Patterson gym-
nasts, and Emmonds, Einmerson and Emmonds. By the
way, Sheridan, at the Royal, is also an American, but we
seem to have taken him over.
A temporary eclipse has happened to the gaiety of
Oollins-street, Melb. Festive F. B. Norton, as his com-
mercial friends know, and his many theatrical friends will
be sorry to learn, has been compelled by the demon In-
somnia to sell his advertisement agency business and take
a rest. Just now “ Fred B.” is engaged in cultivating the
art of slumber and when he has slept himself back into
“ form ” the man with the waxed moustache and flower
garden in his buttonhole will probably seek an opening
for his talents somewhere in the theatrical market. Any-
how he is under medical orders not to carry any more
ads. by storm for the next year or two. Which is a sad
relief to his Melbourne clients. They had grown so
accustomed to being rushed into strange advt. contracts
by the anecdotal Norton that the loss of the infliction
leaves a blank in their lives.
Marshall Hall has arranged for a series of lectures in
Adelaide, beginning at the end of the month. After
which the combative Prof, will probably undertake a con-
cert and lecturing season in Sydney.
Slapoffski, the musical conductor now engaged in
schooling George Musgrove’s chorus at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, has naturally had his name abbreviated by the dear
warbling girls. They call him “ Slappy.”
Owing to the influenza of Tyrone Power, young George
Majeroni got a chance to play Svengali, at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) the other Friday. By the way, it is said that G.M.
aforesaid is having his voice trained with a view to grand
opera.
“ Anti-Gammon ” . In reply to “ S.S.” I may as well say
that I do “ conclude with fat complacency that Ibsen is
the dirty old man dull commentators have called him for
12 years or more.” I may add that Ibsen’s character for
cheap theatrical dirtiness is of more than 12 years’ stand-
ing. As a playwright and stage-manager he started to be
dirty about 50 years back.
Luscombe Searelle, known in Australia as a comic-
opera composer before he made his pile as a S’African
showman, is just now anxious to go on active service in
China. The Chows have massacred his young sister—she
was only 26 who was preaching the Word in their midst
when the trouble broke out.
Amusing to read in a Sydney print claiming special
theatrical knowledge that Billie Barlow “ has been sing-
ing one of Alma Gray’s songs.” The song in question
was, as a matter of fact, specially written for the sprightly
Billie, is published with her portrait on the front page,
and was probably sung by her ere Alma was out of the
nursery.
Whispered that both Billie Barlow and Lottie Collins
are to be in the cast of Rickards’ Melbourne Xmas panto-
mime this year. If Harry throws in the Haytors, and
sends Harry Diver to stage-manage, it ought to be a
pantomime of pantomimes. J. A. Philp, of Sydney, is
writing “ the book.”
Our old friend Carrie Swain is said to be taking instruc-
tion in singing along with Amy Castles. Carrie (Mrs.
Frank Gardiner) is quite old enough to be the mother of
her fellow pupil, and during the 15 years that have rolled
along since she made her first Australian appearance she
has tried sundry courses of study for her rough, flexible
voice. Way back in the 80’s we had it that Carrie was
being trained for the operatic stage in Sydney. Her voice
was of the kind that almost invariably drops its melody
whilst gaining culture. People smiled at the thought of
Carrie Swain as a prima donna, but as the rorty heroine
of a melodrama, taltingaheader into a tank and swi inning
back to “ shore,” with a rescued kiddie seated on her
back, Carrie was generally approved of. Her most
original stage effect was the squirting forth of a mouthful
of water from between her teeth, as though she had taken
it in by accident. Frank Gardiner, her husband, is now
one of the very biggest and richest and most daring
mining men on earth. He has splendid establishments in
both London and Paris, and, according to an Australian
lately back from Europe, he drives absolutely the smartest
turn-out in the Bois de Boulogne. He began life as a
stage-dancer, but you only had to see him with his deadly-
pale, impassive face and jet-black hair sitting stonily
behind a poker-hand to know that he was born to make
a big spoon or spoil a big horn.
The original Tyrone Power, a rather famous Irish
comedian, went down with the good ship President some
60 years ago. The present T.P. is a grandson of the
drowned man.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
:kt. s,-w.
fl]ont depiete fl.|i CM.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174. CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
™ Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Ocean
A ccident
and
Gtiarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
(Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liability.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Directors: W. M‘Millan, A. W. Meeks, Sydney ; L. A.
Jbssop, Adelaide.
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N M'Farlanh ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller,
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600— assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commercial-Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Cabital .. £4.800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4, W> .. £3,196,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornlev, M.L.C.-
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron,
Inspectoks: R. M. M‘Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishop«</ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
IMYW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
VICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on MONDAY, sth NOVEMBER, for MORTGAGE
BONDS, bearing interest at THREE per cent. Tender
forms and conditions supplied at all SAVINGS BANKS
in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
HE SAVINGS" BANK IN VICTORIA
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at POUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The Bank of Borth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director— JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd^
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... • £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350.000
Shipping'.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South. Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 29,1 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Oct. 6,1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyonsr, Tues., Oct. 2, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., Oct. 2, 6 p.in,
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 29, 2 p.m.
Konoowarra, Tues., Oct. 2, 6 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., Oct. 6, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 29, 2 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., Oct. 6, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’
weekly,
booked
Gowrie, from Townsville
Passengers and Cargo
throuarh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Tbe TrCistces, €x€C^itorS,
AND
Ageocy Conjpaoy Lin>it€d,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 600,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers —£3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office —GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. •• 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability .. ►. ~ »• 1,950,000 0 0
Total 6,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.-ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Business Announcements.
mn
FRINGES,
KbTurat Curl/, from 3/6 nadk.
PLAITS and TAILS,
S(Mn. long, fi/0. oil real hat*.
CUTTINGS & COMBIBGi
•orlted up, yo per oz.
Wo ore the cheape&tfa lap
trail a for all Hair Work..
Sand Color of Hair.''
W. N. Wigzell}
( 110 W mid AM
rorner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.. .
Send stamps for full Price Lfgfl. '■
mv>pt atteufcioogivan to Country OrdeWk
m
AMUSEMENT for OLD and JOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising -Joker's Love Bond, or Siamese Links ! Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed). ,
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
XH. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.)
Shipping
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Bed Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Coilins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
KT. D. 3L».
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a. Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3f million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney, General Agents.
NORD-DEUTSCIIER LLOYD
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be>t,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
- LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
* PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
sr
m
Our Suit to order at 4:25. is
marvellous valim; made from
all-wool Tweeds,Vicunas,or fast
color Series ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class cf material, £3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, nery
good patterns, 12s. Gd.
Dress Suits, to measure. £s*
Clerical Suits, to measure. £s*
Hiding Breeches, 255.
Biding Habits, &c.
We supply ready-made.Men*a
capital Tweed Suits. 21s. & 255.
I Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye,2ss.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergerette Suits, 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests, 19s, Gd.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. Gd. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. Gd.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s Gd.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
Os. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s. 9d., ss. Gd.
>velling Trunks, Bags and
IV fs in great variety.
XVn’s White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs, 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. Gd.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. G^.
Soit Alpine Hats, 4s. Gd., all
colors.
Hard Hats, 4:*. Gd. Caps, Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors,
18.
White Shirts to measure. Gents* splendid Balmoral Boots,
(js. 9d., 9s.
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to ask for any
information. Our hook, “ The Philosophy of Dress.” and
patterns of all kinds and self-mensurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Silk cloth, sills
marker, 4s. 6d.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOB MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton, Friday, Sep-
tember 28. Transhipping
at Melbourne.
S.S. Wollowra, Sat., Oct. 6,
Without Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
September 28.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable a lerthe
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and VV.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERYICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co, only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, It) Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
HIMALAYA ..
ARCADIA ...
OCEANA
BRITANNIA..
INDIA
Commander.
jSyd ney,
Noon
ST. Leigh ...jOct. 5
6603 A. C. Loggin .. .. Ocr,. 20
6603 L. H.Crawford,C.B.,R.N.R. Nov. 3
6525 F. 11. Seymour Nov. 17
7911 W. D. G. Worcester, R.N.R. Dec. 1
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, ±35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia, Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets.
Kuddart, parker & go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
HT|luiraitli,|irEacharn& C°-
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR, LINE OE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


Business Announcements.
ladies 7 Tailoring
-SPRING-
NEW SELF SHADES
IN
Meltons, Venetians & Sergerettes.
LATEST DESIGNS
IN
Fancy Worsteds and Check Tweeds,
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming: Mai I boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Nenry Skinner,
01arendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 101$.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
Publications.
LADIES.-^-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
Books. Books. Books.
T>OPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for £2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1893 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R.W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streeD, Sydney.
FOREIQKT STAMPS.
QEEE£Xa§
n
mn
OMEGSQ
UfflECaMl
pHEAP SETS.—24 Cuba, Is 6d ;
4O Japan, Is 6d ; 11 Canada,
6d; 16 Heligoland, Is ; 8 Bosnia,
6d ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ; 12 India Tele-
graphs, 6d; 3 Victoria Queen on
Throne, 7s ; 8 Egypt, 6d: 11 Por-
tugal, 6d; lOßulgaria, 6d; Gibbons
Price Catalogue of Postage Stamps,
part 1., 2s 3d. Stamps purchased.
Catalogues of Albums, Packets, etc., gratis. CHARLES
B. DOW N E, 346 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
m
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET o Look r s e
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
n
IX.LUSTRATED
"WITH numerous anatomical
T ' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
. ~ (stamps) foi postage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
TWIGGS
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPEDIA.
\ la * :u^ e Las not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
„“.. °y e , l3 to . wish to possess. You can—the knowledge im-
hy this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
aress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other things.heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters, and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps 2d. extra) will
ming you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally han-
ptuess with one you love. Anglo-American Publishing Co
Waterloo Chambers, George-st„ Sydney, N.S.W. Mention
tilts paper when writing.
-**xixixxxannjdLnxi nnnnn nnnnnnnn
I O. G-. HATTE’S
Display of
[ Spring & Summer Millinery
and Dress Fabrics
[ is the
| • SHOW OF SEASON •
[ Ladies will find Hatte’s Show Rooms a
[ palace of enchantment, surpassing any-
[ thing of the kind to be seen elsewhere.'
[ The Millinery is directly imported from
[ the best houses of Paris and London ; and
[ the Dress Fabrics have been most care-
[ fully selected by Hatte’s home buyers
[ from the leading manufacturers of
; England, the Continent, and America.
; S3F HATTE’S TAILORING DEPARTMENT
has achieved deserved renown. The New
Season’s Goods are just opened, and are
most beautiful.
For ordinary wear, you can desire
nothing better than one of his
TWO CUINEA SUITS to Measure
(including extra pair of trousers). You \
have a big range of materials for selec- -
tions; the garments are admirably cut
and beautifully finished. J
If you cannot pay a visit, write for
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms \
(free) ; and your orders will be faithfully \
and satisfactorily executed. i
In every department you will save at i
least 30 per cent', by patronising
C. G-. H ATX E, 1
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY. j
LTTTTJTTTTTTTtttttyttttt tt yy yy yy
Fair girls
2nd Edition.
AND GRAY HORSES.
Price 4/6.
CHARMING GIFTS
FOR CYCLISTS,
TOURISTS, LADIES,
SPORTSMEN,
AND ALL
HOLIDAY MAKERB.
KODAKS
Kodak Photography is the best hobby
in the world. It is mastered in a few
minutes by anyone.
No Dark Room Worry.
Films Changed in Daylight.
KODAKS FROM
16s to £7 15s.
Illustrated Price list (C) Post Free.
KODAK, Limited,
“THE BLOCK,”
284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at London, Paris, Berlin, Brussels, Vienna, St.
Petersburg, Moscow, and Rochester, N.Y.
“ The Last of Six ” .
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By
Ernest Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d.
post free.
MERCHANTS!
READ
“ I may say that the Register is giving
me every satisfaction, and the system of dis-
counts on cash purchases is much appreciated
by my customers, cash sales having increased
materially since using the Register.”
T. PARKIN, Storekeeper, Corowa, N.S.W.
MARK
“ I have had the Cash Register for nearly
twelve months, and am pleased with it. It
fulfils every expectation I had regarding it.”
PAUL WILKINSON, Chemist,
Maryborough, Vic.
LEAKN
“ We are pleased to inform you that the
two National Cash Registers are doing their
work splendidly. They are most accurate,
and the more we use them the better we like
them. We feel quite sure their merits have
only to be known to insure their adoption by
every up-to-date business man.”
CAMPBELL BROS. & CO., Butchers,
Tooivoomba, Q.
INWARDLY DIGEST!
AND
mn
Be UP-TO-DATE, or you will
GO BEHIND.
Write for particulars and Price List (from
£5 up) of the
NATIONAL
Cash Register
TO
HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE:
335 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
‘JUlenburgs Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys”
The “Allenburys”
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of life.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ Allenburys” Malted Food no. 3
■ 1 For Infants over six months of age.
—TWT"
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and ail requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that—“No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 485, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renoivned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled and are note the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long tvaist.
jflfl
r-
m
IV
mm
§§w®
Thomsons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B.—Old Model Corsets always in stock.
“ LA. KTOBLESSE ”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs-W- S- Thomson & Co-, Ld-, London-
THE WORD
• •
FOX
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Quality of Dye of all
Vorsted
Coalings,
SergosuTweeils
on which it is stamped.
fox’s fnre Mgo.
As the result of many years of ex-
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cloths are
stamped every two yards on the
back ....
FOX'S PURE INDIGO,
and without this stamp aie not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £t&.,
Wellington, Somerset, €ng.
Makars of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas,
Serges, Tweeds, Tennis and Costume
Cloths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colonies, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was foun ed
early in the eighteenth century, and the
present Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
O
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
—o
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only :—
STOCDALE & DUFFUS,
326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne
AND
422, George Street, Sydney.
“DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
I’ll Try It.’
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarlne !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand. (
I'rUcc, Irts. «d.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
Craig & Altken, 680-682 George- at., Sydney


Alterations in names and addresses in City
and Suburbs for insertion in Sands’ Sydney
Directory 1901, may be sent to the compiler
not later than the first week in October.
The Acetylene Miners’ Lamps, introduced by
the Acetylene Gas Co. of Australia, Ltd., have proved a
great success and are now largely used in the mines
throughout the colony. The company has lately been
rushed with orders for lighting up gold-mining dredges
owing to the many advantages offered by the light for
that purpose. It would be well for mine and dredge
owners to ascertain full information as to cost, etc., from
the Head Office of the Company, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
A recent letter from S’Africa relates that
the bodies of 17 strangled Boers were found in the
field after a recent encounter. They had been
choked by the lassoes of certain Canadian Scouts.
And a Maoriland swaddy, writing home, some-
what exultantly relates how several hundred Cana-
dians got 23 Boers into a tight place. The Boers
offered to surrender ; but the Canadians “ weren’t
taking any, and shot and bayoneted them ■ to the
very last man.” The Glory !
Sydney bookseller Dymock, in his evi-
dence before the Sydney Public Library Inquiry
Committee, told a pathetic tale about how he was
taken in. A well-dressed man was wandering
about his shop after the manner of the desultory
book-buyer, and at last he gathered up a valuable
work, put it under his arm, and went upstairs.
If he had made for the door he would, of course,
have been stopped, but it was inferred that he
was going to select some more books in the upper
premises and pay for them in one lot. Later he
came down without the book and departed, where-
fore it was assumed that he had changed his mind
about the proposed purchase and left it on a table
somewhere. But he hadn’t. He had gone up-
stairs and sold the boss his own book at a con-
siderable reduction, and there was great cursing
that afternoon in the Dymock emporium.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
A number of Victorian Tories deputation-
ised Premier M‘Lean last week and desired that
the Government should use its influence to sup-
press Trenwith’s Industrial Arbitration Bill.
They assured M‘Lean that it was all a mistake to
suppose that Maoriland prospered because of this
kind of legislation; it prospered in spite of it.
Possibly ! Still the writer can remember Maori-
land in the middle eighties, when it was the
poorest, deadest, and most wretched of the seven
provinces. It had all Tory legislation then. Pre-
sumably the theory is that it wasn’t the Tory
legislation that made it poor; it was poor in spite
of Tory legislation. Still if a country is poor
despite the blessing of Tory law-making, and then
is rich despite the curse of Democratic law-making,
this paper would rather take the curse any day.
Elsewhere is an appeal for £25,000 to
build a new Hospital for Sick Children in Sydney.
Up to now about £9000 have materalised, of which
£5000 were contributed in sums of £1000 each ; so
that it is necessary to raise another £16,000 to do
the work as it ought to be done. If the Mother
State has really anything maternal about it it will
rise unanimously and put up the shekels, for if
ever there was a noble purpose, it is this. The
present hospital has done splendid work, but it is
in a crowded suburb and is altogether too small
for requirements, and it is time Sydney got out of
its hideous habit of pottering about things in a
small mean way. So the public is requested to
send along its sovereigns, and let there be a
children’s hospital fit to cope with its work and
be a credit to the humanity and enterprise of the
community.
Patents for Inventions —Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
South Australia gets a good idea of the
close relationship of ex-Premier Kingston and the
Labor-party in a little correspondence that took
place just before the former declared, himself a
candidate for the Leg. Council, to which he was
returned by a majority of some 300 in a heavy poll
over his opponent, Parsons. Though Kingston
wanted to get back to politics more than he wanted
anything else, he wrote to Robinson, ex-M.L.C.,
the man entitled to be Labor candidate for the
first vacancy, offering to support him for the seat.
“You have the first right to contest it,” he said,
“ and you can rely on my support in every con-
ceivable way ” (Robinson had lost a seat for that
district last general election). Of course, Robin-
son was wise enough to reply that Kingston ought
to be the candidate.
One of the Lyne Government’s sins of
half-heartedness came home to roost the other
night. N.S.W. Leg. Council badly mangled its
poor little Bill for the reformation of Sydney
Municipal Council, and refused to budge from its
manglings. If the Bill had provided for amalga-
mating the 41 municipalities of Sydney, and their
debts and assets, establishing one-adult-one-vote
at municipal elections, making the Council. of
Greater Sydney all elective on one day, having
salaried aldermen—the individuals who give a
little of their time to municipal matters for nothing
being worth just nothing, establishing a sinking-
fund and State audit of accounts, making it compul-
sory to levy enough revenue to cover outgoings,
giving the council the widest powers to resume
lands and buildings for city improvement pur-
poses, and to abolish slums—if it had been, in
short, the comprehensive reform it might have
been, the Lyne Govt, could have kicked the Coun-
cil into the next geological period. The matter at
issue would have been big enough to swamp the
Upper House over. But it was such a poor little
measure that to make a political crisis over it
would only have excited ridicule, and the Council
knew it, and smiled.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
TO ADMIRERS OF “THE BULLETIN."
mENDERS will be received by JAMES CHISHOLM, 28
-L Raglan-street, Darlington, until 31st October, for the
purchase of Tiie Bulletin— lo volumes, leather bound,
from 19th May, 1883, to Dec. 31, 1888, and loose numbers
to date. Books on view at above address.
Medical.
“ COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM
THE
DEAF
HEAE
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many h.ave been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
MEMORY,
-^LESSONS
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send lor Prospectu*,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
42 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
Extracts trom Letters.
J.T. GRESTY, Esq., Prof. Mus.,Syd.— “lthasincreased
my natural memory for music to a remarkable degree. To
musical students it will be a great boon, and a sure
stepping-stone to success.”
Mr. 0. T. DAVIS, Dunedin, N.Z.—“lt has greatly
strengthened my natural memory, and given me the
power to readily connect and to lastingly memorise the
most abstruse, disconnected and uninteresting matter
making study easy and delightful.”
STEPHEN. R. MILLER, Esq., Sydney.—“ Your rules
are perfectly natural, and tend as much to improve an
ordinary memory as to cure a bad one. In my position
as Chief Clerk of the Statistical branch of the Ry. Dept. 1
have great scope for memory. Your system has been of
very great service to me.”
TOUR WATCH
WON’T QO ?
Why not lay it aside and invest in a new one ? Right
here we introduce to your notice one of our
FAMOUS SILVER KEYLESS LEVERS,
the cases of which are solid silver. The movement is
of the best quality, and manufactured specially for
rough handling. The balance staff pivots rotate in
the best-quality jewels, and the balance itself is com-
pensated. This ensures the watch keeping
Accurate and Reliable Time.
On receipt of the sum of £2 we shall be pleased to
Forward this Watch on Approval,
and if you are dissatisfied with the value we will
return your money. Remember that this watch is
guaranteed 6 years. Thus you can have
Reliable Time for a Penny a Week.
The watch will be forwarded, securely packed and
postage free, to any part of the Australian colonies
on receipt of £2.
D. S. MAIR,
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George Street, Sydney.
Yls a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A.O. Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
PAMruLET, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
mn
m
n
... OP ..
ALLAN’S ..
Australian
music
i
Nos. 0 and 10 will appear next week.
KW These are obtainable at all Music-sellers throughout
Australia. Full list (Nos. 1 to 62) forwarded to any
address on application.
No. 7.—Vocal Duets.
The Gipsy Countess
Stephen Glover
Flow On, Thou Shining
River
Army and Navy Cooke
The Sailor Sighs Batje
Elfin Call Stephen Glover
List to the Convent Bells
Blockey
What are the Wild Waves
Saying Glover
Whispering Hope
Uarvthome
No. B.—Favorite Piano-
forte Pieces.
War March (Athalie)
Mendelssohn
L’Argentine lietterer
Dead March in Saul
Ilandel
Marche Hongroise
Kowalski
Rosamunde (Ballet Music
No. 1) Schubert
La Garde Montante
Lejebure Wely
Gipsy Rondo llaydn
PUBLISHED BY
ALLAN & CO. 276 & 278 Collins-st.,
Proprietary Ltd. Melbourne.
NOTICE,
IHE MIA MIA TEA ROOMS, 340 Collins-
-L street, next Drummond’s, are now open to
the public. These rooms have undergone ex-
tensive alterations, and contain a luxurious
smoking-room, ladies’ boudoir and writing-room,
gentlemen’s lavatory, &0., and are absolutely
the finest in Australasia.
Music every Wednesday afternoon from 3.30 to
5 o’clock.
NO Alteration in Tariff.
London Tea Rooms Company Ltd.,
PROPRIETORS.
Sydney Hospitak r Sick Children
WANTED <£25,000,
Erection of New Hospital.
The Hon. Treasurers hereby acknowledge with thanks the receipt of the following Donations:—
or by the Organising Secretary, Mr. THOS. PRATT, 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
NO . BREAKFAST TABLE
IS COMPLETE
WITHOUT A BOTTLE OP
LEA & PERRINS’ SAUCE
THE ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHIRE.
Agents— VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COIIEN & CO., Sydney.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf. Company
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY 1
When In town, pay ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SA PDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.— Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Reiifern Railway Station).
OUB SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
m
A
mm
M
4
as
Delfrered at any ITTiarf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Wbo’S YoOr Natter ?
You will certainly favor us with an Order
when you receive a Copy of our
ILLUSTRATED
Just Issued.
fiat pamphlet
If you send us your Name and Address we will
forward you a copv, also the Latest Portrait of
Generals Roberts, Buller and Kitchener—FßEE,
Write for One !
HORDERISMBROTHERS,
DIRECT IMPORTERS.
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager. Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. R. Stewart.
Thursday and Friday, Sept. 27 and 28, first time by the
THE CRANE-POWER COMPANY,
TESS OF THE D’URBERVILLES.
Saturday, Sept. 29, for the first time in Melbourne, the
finest example of Romantic Drama Australia has ever
seen, THE ONLY WA Y , adapted from Charles
Dicken’s Great Story, “ A Tale of Two Cities.”
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 6s; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Fitzgerald bro.’S circus, menagerie
AND NEW CONTINENTAL COMPANY.
A REGULAR BOOM. A REGULAR BOOM.
A GREAT and GLORIOUS SUCCESS. Patronised
nightly by thousands of delighted amusement seekers.
Location: BENEVOLENT SOCIETY’S GROUNDS.
(Opp. Redfem Railway Station).
The New Artists have Caught On.
The DUNBAR TRIO, MDLLE. RHODESIA, the
JANDASOHEVSKY FAMILY, SISTERS WINGATE,
ROSE AQUINALDO, THE OINNEZALLAS, KARL
BROTHERS, MDLLE, KATIE AND MDLLE. MAR-
GARETTA, GUILLAUME AND AUGUSTE, &c., &c.
The Great and Screamingly Funny “ TORREADOR
SKETCH.”
The Sensational High-Jumping Contest between “ New-
haven,” “Cadet,” “Playboy” and “Stockman.”
THE RIDING TIGER
and
the Musical Burlesque, “ DAMEN GAPELLE,” intro-
duced by the “ Jandaschevskys.”
Matinees: WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
SPECIAL GRAND DAY SHOW, MONDAY, OOT. I,
Eight-Hour Day.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
The Splendid Band of 20 Performers, under the con-
ductorship of Herr Von der Mehden.
PRICES : 45., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
J. MORRIS, Agent F. JONES, Press Rep
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
LAST 2 NIGHTS and FAREWELL PERFORMANCES
of the WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY in
THE GONDOLIERS.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 29, NANCE O’NEIL SEASON,
PBDOEA.
Plan, Nicholson’s. K3F” PRICES—6s., 35., 25., and Is.
■J-HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
UNBRIDLED ENTHUSIASM and WARMEST
CORDIALITY
Extended by Press and Public to
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Gala Melodramatic Attraction,
“ 3XTBW BA-BYLOKT.”
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER.
AND THE POPULAR COMPANY.
THURSDAY, DRINK. LAST NIGHT.
FRIDAY and SATURDAY, MACBETH.
MONDAY,
The Penalty of Crime .
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
6th WEEK AND STILL NIGHTLY CROWDED.
CHARLES ARNOLD
and his
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in George H. Broadhurst’s Enormously Successful Farce
Comedy,
What Happened to Jones.
PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
L. J. LOHR, Manager.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Re-appearance for a short Farewell Season of
DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN,
One of the most Popular Teams that has ever Appeared,
THE THREE HAYTORS.
First Appearance at the Tivoli Theatre of
4 THE WILLIAMS FAMILY. 4
FERRY, THE HUMAN FROG, WALLACE KING,
and all our Great Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
{CENTENARY HALL, SYDNEY. ’
TUESDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 2,
First Appearance in Australia of
MADAME
Adelina De Lara. |
(The Celebrated English Pianiste).
Assisted by Miss JESSIE KING, Mr. HENRI STAELL,
and HERR GERARD VOLLMAR.
PRICES, 55., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
JOHN LAURE, Manager.
TjOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance at the Bijou of England’s Burlesque
Queen, BILLEE BARLOW.
Gigantic and Enthusiastic Success of PAUL’S ANIMATO-
CRAPHE, THE PATTERSON BROS., America’s Wonderful
Horizontal Bar Performers.
Mr. HARRY SHINE, Mr. TOD CALLAWAY, Miss
JESSIE WILLIAMS, Mr. WILL WHITBURN, and
all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
T~~HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE. '
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING, JOHN F. SHERIDAN and GRACIE
WHITEFORD in the Musical-Farcical Comedy,
A. Trip to Chicago.
Bright Scenes, Catchy Music, Ludicrous Situations, Song
and Dance. A Wealth of Splendor.
Prioes—3»., 25., Is. Cd., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.


An Engineer in*Difficulties!
TRIES, LIKE MANY MORE, HEAPS OF
SO CALLED REMEDIES
But Meets with Final Success.
The Case of
MR. JAMES BURNS.
(By Our Reporter,)
No invalid is so difficult to deal with as
the one who has “ never known a day’s
sickness.” For the most part he resolutely
puts away the suggestion—“ That his time
has come at last, that his smooth working
machinery has broken dewn, and that active
repair is at once required.” No 1 the
chances are the sufferer battles on, getting
daily worse and worse, till final collapse lays
him on his back.
“My husband never would have that
anything was seriously the matter with him,
that he was bilious, or that his liver was not
as sound as it ought to be,” said Mrs. Burns
as our reporter interviewed that lady and
Mr. Burns. “ Not till he was really bad
and desperately ill would he give in, and
admit that something was radically wrong
with him.” Mr. Burns, it may be men-
tioned, is an engineer by profession, living
at 107 Stanley-street, North Melbourne,
and well known in that locality. Some time
ago he was engaged in a very arduous
undertaking, where he was exposed to all
kinds of weather, continually knocked up
by excessive travelling, and left for long
periods with poor and irregular food. In
the pride of good health and an iron con-
stitution, Mr. Burns thought nothing of
these hardships at the time; but later on,
like many more before him, he had good
cause to recollect. “ I fell,” said Mr. Burns,
“ into a low lethargic condition of body
and mind. I had pains all over me. Ido
not think there was a part of my frame free
from an ache of some kind. I was bilious
with an excess of bile that seemed to numb
all my faculties. I did not care to work, to
move about, to do anything. Yet when I
braced myself to active exercise I felt better
—that is, while the work lasted ; but when
the excitement and stimulant of exercise
was over I was done, prostrate and desti-
tute of all hope and energy. I suffered
from a pain below my neck and between
my shoulders, that cramped up my body.
At the least excitement my heart was
deranged, and went thump, thump, thump
against my ribs like the beat of a hammer.
My stomach and digestive organs behaved
very strangely, as though they had gone on
strike and quite given up work. No sooner
had I eaten a meal than I had to run to the
back yard and vomit it all up just as I had
swallowed it; so that my assimilative pro-
cess was absolutely paralysed. At times I
would go giddy in the head, like a child
that turns round and round; I could not
stand on my feet, and felt the sick deadly
sensation of one about to faint. If I had
been resting any time in one position, and
went to get up, I was held fast by a stiff
gripping pain in the small of the back,
Gradually I lost all taste or inclination for
food ; I would go for two or three days con-
tinuously without eating. This starvation
greatly added to my weakness, and at the
same time I rapidly lost flesh, and became
reduced to a shadow of my former self. My
nervous system suffered with the rest of
my body, and I became morbidly sensitive
to the least sound. A loud knock at the
door would make me start and jump as
though a cannon had suddenly been tired
close by. My temper became very irritable,
I was vexed and upset at the' least thing.
I slept well, in fact I was always drowsy ;
but the sleep appeared to do me no good. I
was never rested. Bleeping for one hour
was ai good as eight for all the benefit 1
derived, and in the morning I would be
more tired than at night. A terror that
haunted my night’s rest was nightmare.
Even when I awoke, or, what would often
happen, my wife woke me, I still for a time
experienced the cruel pains of suffocation
and strangulation. This general upsetting
of my whole system affected my eyes ; there
were times when they were quite dull, my
sight becoming blurred, and ic was with
difficulty that 1 could see to read. When
stooped down there followed pains across m„
loins like the piercing of sharp instruments.
My palate always had a nasty flavour, my
tongue was parched and dry. I became
wonderfully changed in outward appearance
and was depressing to look at, thin, worn
and emaciated, a skeleton of what I had
been.”
“ What remedies did you try, Mr. Burns?’"
enquired the pressman.
“Heaps of things, various makes of bitters
and blood purifiers, all warranted to curs
cases like mine and all useless, also r
number of patent and much lauded
with a like result. None did me the slight*
est good, in fact I became day by day
steadily worse. It was about this time,
when I concluded that there was no medi-
cine in the world that would relieve my
sufferings, that a book was left at the dooi,
descriptive of the virtues of Clements Tonic.
“I wonder,” said'my wife, “ if that would
do you any good, let us have one more try. 1 ”
She went over to our chemist and asked
about Clements Tonic, and that gentleman
told her she could not go wrong in buying
it, that it was the best remedy he knew 0 2-.
that his sales of Clements Tonic were larg«
and increasing, and he had received the very
best reports from his customers who haai
purchased it, and that there was not the
shadow of a doubt that Clements Tonic dit.
all that it claimed to do. After that, you
may be sure I purchased a bottle of dementi
Tonic, for I know that chemists are not
naturally inclined to give credit to proprie-
tary medicines without good reason. My
health began to mend from the very first
bottle J took. I gained a good appetite, an<£
my stomach retained the food. My sleep
refreshed me, the pains all over my body, i
my back, head, and heart were all subdued.
I regained energy and flesh and lost my
sallow appearance, my nerves were strength-
ened, and at night I slept soundly, undis-
turbed by dreams ; and vary soon my oure
was complete.”
“ I report this for the papers, Mr. Burns,”
said our representative.
" I am glad to hear it, and I hope it wil
be read and do good ; it’s all true, and yoC
can publish it how you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, James S. Burns, of 107 Stanlay-street, North
Melbourne, in the Colony of Victoria, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of six folios and
consecutively numbered from one to six, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any
manner my statements—which I give voluntarily,
and without receiving any payment; and I make th
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an
Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons
making a False Declaration punishable for wilful
and corrupt perjury.
Declared at Melbourne, in the Colony of Victoria,
this 27th day of December, one thousand eight
hundred and ninety-nine, before me,
CHARLES E. HIRST. J.P.
A Justice of the Peace in and lor the Central Baili-
wick of the Colony of Victoria.
ifi
LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD 18 STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
m
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOCOALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, George St., Sydney.
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
IDINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA,
▲
Sold Throughout the World.
N,8,-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
u on Our Selection.” By “ Steele Rudd.”
sa~ THIS IS THE LATEST TYPE l
GRAMOPHONE-or
ZONOPHONE!
n
BARGAINS I
Coin Slot Qraphophone £c
Same as formerly-, £lO.
Gem Phonograph, 30/-
RECORDS, 2/8 REDUCTION FOR QUANTITY.
Everything Reduced. Try l
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT J
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company 9
1 & 3 Rowe Street, Sydney (Only),
(near Q.P.0.)
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I'O DEI?'Y COMPETITION 1 .
WINES The Best Brands Only of • SPIRITS.
Sc
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OE SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DBUCIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours :—hemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors : —GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Sublaco,Perth,W.A.&oB,King St.,Melbourne
Business Announcements
s>
Wd
i
1
SPOOLER’S
m
LI
f/!^=
SPOONERS
V
*
*
IMTBNT leather BOOTS
' GLAZED RIOS W
<**.»• **»<
•Hi.,-ifij' «IJ»
s
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning- and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Eto.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, eto.
Medical j
'Jt5 YEARS PROVEN EFFJ^ACY
Take
i
or^v
fl*A OE
Ciii'Pf" .
Si&gfe?
OF ALL "CHEMISTS
(throughoutCreatßritain & the Colonies
LinumCatharticum Pills purei/%robie
mn
us£ COACU LINE •
Transparent Cement, for ail Broken Articles
r GOUT V
PILLS.
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA.
LUMBAGO,
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, PitouT & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.


A loaded truck recently got loose at
Riddell’s Creek (35 miles from Melb.), and started
“on its own” along the down-hill traok to the
city. An engine was promptly started in pursuit
and just managed to oaten it at Sunbury (24
miles out). Had it got past that station, nothing
but a streak of greased lightning could have
caught it till it broke through Spencer-street
station into Bourke-street and hit Cole’s Book
Arcade, as the down grade becomes much steeper,
at Sunbury. Some years ago a truck similarly got
away from Daylesford, and, there being no engine
speedy enough to overtake it, the station-master
wired to a station 20 miles down to shunt it off
the track to perdition, and spent the next few
minutes praying that his message would get there
first. Luckily it did, and the truck was sent into
a dead-end and shattered into dust.
In a recent London divorce-case, the
petitioner, Capt. Vivian James Forbes-Smith,
produced some entertaining letters from his wife,
who used to come home at 5. a.m. with always
the same old story of having been engaged in
teaching an aged French lady “ the art of conver-
sation.” Her last letter was comparatively candid,
It said : “I am fearfully in debt, and altogether
wicked. Except for one sin, lam altogether bad ;
and perhaps it is a pity I have not that one, for
it prevents you getting a divorce.” However,
the jury found the matron guilty of the one sin
needed to complete her badness, and a British co-
respondent (otherwise the aged French lady) who
had been taking lessons in conversation from Mrs.
Forbes-Smith was sentenced to £1250 damages.
An insurance-agent named Slaughter is
touring N.Q., accompanied by a doctor named
Butcher.
Be the non-naming of Bishops at Synod,
S. M. Herald, reporting Parliamentary debates,
omits the names of Ministers, and merely notes
that the “Minister for Justice” —or so on—said
so and so. A year or two hence, or less, the
reader will need a work of reference to see who
happened to be Minister for —say, Dust Bins—in
the year 1900. London Times, the Herald’s pat-
tern, has more sense.
Hearne’s bronchitis Core.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. —Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir. —I suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.” —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
jine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Viotoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE *IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“ Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir, —I am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to my mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus —as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“ Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows “As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do.. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir. —My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respeot’fully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
"Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Tears’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be Without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, at
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS' CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced tojtry Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 16 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Branch Depot :
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
Smelting Co. °r Australia
(LIMITED),
DAPTO (Lalie Illawarra), near SYDBIEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODXJCBRa
Off
FINE SILVER.
2* I
■ W s
yrr#
:
so-s. ♦? &>%+& -1 \3&*''
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILL AW ARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. • or Martin Place SYDNEY
' “ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f « r
INFANTS
9
BENQER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
w but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Go., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AND
THE AGED.


SPRING AILMENTS
AND
LE
**. • .
ESS
SPRING TIME CLEANING.
Spring has arrived, and now the careful housewife goes through the annual Spring-
house cleaning. The Summer will be upon us, and at this time of the year we should
take care to cleanse the whole human system, and fortify it to withstand the enervat-
ing effects of the Australian Summer. The increasing hot weather of this period has
an extremely debilitating effect on the system if it is not in perfect working order all
through. It will be thus seen that a medicine which will regulate and cleanse the .in-
terior mechanism of man is especially valuable at this time of year. Such a medicine
is Bile Beans, and no better preparation can be found for toning up the digestive
organs, cleansing the blood, and invigorating the liver. Spring generally brings with
it an assortment of ailments, such as Spring Fever, Tired Feeling, Loss of Appetite,
&c. For these take Bile Beans, which are also a specific for Biliousness, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Debility, which are also prevalent at this season. As a purgative
Bile Beans are acknowledged without an equal in Australia. Their price places them
within the reach of everyone, and no one should run the risk of being m ill-health
through the Summer when a short course of Bile Beans would effectually purify the
body and keep it in thorough working order.
BILE BEANS.
This great remedy possesses the peculiar properties of acting on the bowels with-
out purging or otherwise weakening the patient. This is because the substance that
relaxes the bowels has about the same action as the natural bile. Bile Beans are
purely vegetable, and a course of them will probably successfully oust the most chronic
cases of piles, indigestion, chronic headache, kidney trouble, rheumatism, constipation,
and a host of other ailments that owe their origin to defective bile flow, assimilation
and digestion. These Beans are placed on the market in a form that anyone can take
them without medical supervision, and, as the price is so very low, there are few homes
that cannot afford to always have a box on the shelf for emergency.
MOIR’S
KIPPER PASTE
In Tins about 2 ozs. and 4 ozs.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON ABERDEEN & SEVILLE.
Head Office I—9 & 10, Gt. Tower Street, London E.C.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN.
MEUUHS
FOOD
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
A PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD is °f the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MEEEIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ADD DEALERS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street. Svdnau.
The Woes of Hochblatter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HoOßßLaTter Was a foreigner with a large, fleshy
frame* and a watery-blue eye. He leased a row of
houses, which he let off as “Furnished Apart-
ments.” The terrace was situated in a good
position and handy to the city, and if Hochblatter
had been a smart business-man he might have
made money. Not being a smart man, he didn’t.
Still, there was a certain amount of method in his
stupidity. He invariably collected his rents in
advance every Monday morning before twelve,
and ejected before three in the afternoon all those
who could not or would not pay.
Unfortunately his method ended right there.
He mismanaged the internal arrangements so
badly that no one who had the cash to pay regu-
larly in advance dreamed of stopping there any
longer than it took to find new quarters, always
barring a few wily old residents who had ways of
their own of turning Hochblatter’s arrangements
to profit. When the new lodger went into the
kitchen, after having taken possession of his room,
he found there one range or small American stove
for the use of all the tenants, and each tenant sup-
plied his or her own coal or wood. Also, while
each tenant’s provisions were cooking each tenant
strongly objected to anyone else so much as looking
at the fire. But when the new arrival appeared
and made up the fire, and sent it roaring up the
chimney, the old residents used to arrive and
instanter cover the whole top-plate with their pots
and pans, and gradually drive the new lodger’s
utensils over the edge. Thereby they saved coal,
but unless the new-comer was large enough to
fight the old residents in a body he usually left
Hochblatter’s premises within a week.
Hochblatter’s tenants never loved him —no
man who collects his rent regularly before twelve
on Mondays could expect to be loved; but at
last he became positively hated, with disastrous
results to himself. It arose over the man in the
back ground-floor room of No. 4, who was des-
perately ill—almost dead of consumption. His
pale, worried wife had toiled when she could toil,
and pawned everything on which the three-ball
man would advance the price of a loaf. She had
even got out of paying her rent in advance, a feat
for which Hochblatter never forgave her. Her
husband ought to have been in hospital, but he
had already been discharged as a hopeless case,
and they were simple people who knew nothing
about how to get him into a home for incurables,
so his brave little wife struggled on and kept
him somehow. But she struck a streak of bad
luck at last, and one Monday came when Hoch-
blatter’s rent was not forthcoming. It was only
75., but Hochblatter, with half a terrace empty,
put them out into the street—“on principle.”
The consumptive husband broke a blood-vessel
and died before they were much more than out of
sight of Hochblatter’s tenement.
Hochblatter saw the beginning of unpopularity
in this incident. He spent 10s. on legal advice,
and found that he was within his legal rights, as
he had used no force to expel his tenants. But
next time the lady with the strawberry nose in
the front room saw Hochblatter she cursed him.
Even people who never bought their own fuel, but
stole that of the other lodgers, told him he would
never have any more luck, while Mulligan, his
least respectable tenant, spoke to him in terms of
disparagement and threatened to throw chairs at
him.
* * * *
Hochblatter was fast asleep three nights later
when some one clanged loudly on the bell and
Eounded the knocker furiously. Thinking one of
is tenements was on fire, the landlord rose
hastily. With chattering teeth, he opened the
door and said, “Vhat’soop?” The man outside
explained that the Mulligans were kicking up a
dreadful row, using language that was demoralis-
ing all the other tena.nts, and hitting each other
something awful. Hochblatter smiled as well as
his chattering teeth would allow, and told the
tenant to go back and threaten them with the
police. Just then the cold, wintry air was filled
with the noise of crashing furniture. The tenant,
who was retiring disgustedly, came back in high
glee and shouted, “Hoo-ray ! they’ve started on
the furniture now—your furniture. Hoo-blanky-
ray ! ” A white figure rushed past him, and he
looked round and saw Hochblatter tearing towards
the police-station in his night-gear.
Hochblatter turned the comer and ran into a
couple of constables, who promptly ran him in as
a lunatic who had got loose in his night-gown, for
what with anxiety for his furniture, excitement,
unwonted exertion and a foreign tongue, the
flying apparition was incoherent, and the watch-
house-keeper entered him on the books as ‘ ‘ bark-
ing-mad.” Then the two officers went out to
further pursue their avocation, when the cold
night-wind brought to their ears the sound of awful
smashing and cursing. They hurried along, and
found that the Mulligans were still breaking
things, and Mrs. Hochblatter was calling for help.
They went upstairs and recommended the Mulli-
gans to cultivate a calmer frame of mind, but told
Mrs. Hochblatter they had no power to prevent a
man breaking his own furniture in his own house,
so long as he broke it peaceably.
Hocnblatter appeared at the Court in the
morning, and despite many entreaties and pro-
tests was fined for keeping a disorderly house,
for being wildly and dangerously drunk, and being
found in the streets in a state of undress.
He went back, determined to make the Mulli-
fans sit-up. He was sorry he had collected
lulligan’s rent in advance. As it was there was
nothing to go upon, and he doubted if he could
even demand to see the state of Mulligan’s room,
and insist on inspecting the furniture.
Mulligan met him at his door with a black patch
over one eye, and flatly refused to let him inspect
the furniture or enter the room on any pretext.
The landlord complained bitterly of Mulligan’s
conduct, and asked him when he would be pre-
pared to pay the amount his (Mulligan’s) unruly
conduct had cost him (Hochblatter) at the police-
court that morning ?
Mulligan’s remarks upon and replies to the last
question were unpublishable.
That night the Mulligan battle was resumed,
and the fragments of the windows littered the
pavement, and the roar brought the landlord out
m a thick topcoat. He opened the street-door
and marched up the stairs and knocked at Mulli-
gan’s door with the loud bash of authority. In-
side, the awful din continued, so Hochblatter
opened the door and entered. A scene of desola-
tion met his gaze. The room was wrecked,
the furniture reduced to splinters, and the whole
Mulligan family was doing battle. Just as Hoch-
blatter entered the door Mrs. Mulligan had seized
the kettle, and the action produced a panic in the
opposing ranks. In about 2sec. the panic had
become a rout, and the whole force of Mr. Mulli-
gan stampeded for the door, where it bumped up
against the landlord. But there was a kettle of
hot water behind and only a landlord in front, so
the flying Mulligan army trod landlord Hoch-
blatter in the dust and ran over him. He arose
just in time to stop the kettle of hot water that
Mrs. Mulligan had heaved after the defeated
enemy, and to get tangled up in the table-cloth
and other properties. He fled for his life with the
table-cloth still attached to him—he didn’t know
how.
Next morning, landlord Hochblatter was burn-
ing to wipe the Mulligans off the face of the earth,
and he sent for a lawyer to consult about what
steps he should take in the matter. While he
waited for the arrival of the lawyer, sitting in his
easy-chair before the fire, a knock came to the
door. Mrs. H. opened it, thinking it was the
solicitor, when two large policemen entered and
effected the arrest of one Herman Hochblatter for
' entering the apartments of Michael Mulligan arid
stealing therefrom one table-cloth to the value
of ss.
There was nothing for it but to go quietly, and
get bail, and have the Mulligans flayed alive if the
law could do it at any cost whatever,
Hochblatter went “ peaceful-like in a keb ” and
wept tears of rage before the party who granted
bail. Mrs. H. went with him. When they re-
turned they expected to find that the Mulligans
had fled, but they were mistaken. Hochblatter
had to go off to the Coroner’s Court to give evi-
dence at the inquest on the late consumptive, but
when he returned he and the solicitor proceeded
to interview Michael. Michael told them with
dignity that they must knock at the door and wait
till somebody beyant answered and “axed ’em
what they were after requiring,” and explained
that even a landlord could not walk into a house
like that, for although he was the landlord lie was
not the occupier, and was likely to get himself
into trouble, especially since he had developed
kleptomania and marched off with people’s table-
cloths. Hochblatter appealed to the lawyer to flat-
ten out this presumptuous Irishman, but the shark
said he was afraid Michael Mulligan was right,
and counselled retirement. Theyretired according-
ly, and entered an action against Mulligan for the
value of the broken furniture. But the lodgers
looked coldly on Hochblatter for his treatment of
the consumptive, and so many of them were
suborned by Mulligan to swear that they had seen
Mulligan buy the furniture off Hochblatter, and
pay for it and get an unstamped receipt, that the
case fell through with costs.
Hochblatter came up before the magistrate on
the day after the Mafeking holiday, to answer the
charge of breaking into Mulligan’s rooms and
stealing Mulligan’s table-cloth. The table-cloth
was fully identified. Mulligan got into the box
with a Union Jack pinned on his coat, and con-
trived to state incidentally that he was an ex-
soldier of the British army, which created a favor-
able impression at once. Hochblatter’s confused
statement about how he found the table-cloth
hanging on to his coat when he got home was un-
convincing. Then he unguardedly admitted hav-
ing been born at Amsterdam, and the court gave
him three months without any more ado.
HERMES.
The Wail of the Waiter.
(A Tavern Catch.)
All day long, at Scott’s or Menzies’, I await the gorging
crowd,
Panting, penned within a pantry, with the blowflies
humming loud.
There at seven in the morning do I count my daily cash,
While the home-returning reveller calls for “ soda and a
dash.”
And the weary hansom-cabbies set the blinking squatters
down,
Who, all night, in savage freedom, have been “ knocking
round the town.”
Soon the breakfast gong resounding bids the festive meal
begin,
And, with appetites like demons, come the gentle public
in.
“Toast and butter!” “Eggs and coffee 1" “Waiter
Mutton chops for four ! ”
“ Flatheads ! ” “ Ham ! ” “Beef! ” “ Where’s the
mustard ? ” “ Steak and onions ! ” “ Shut the door 1 ”
Here sits Bandicoot, the broker, eating in a desp’rate
hurry,
Scowling at his left-hand neighbor—Cornstalk from the
Upper Murray,
Who with brandy-nose empurpled, and with blue lips
cracked and dry,
In incipient delirium shoves the eggspoon in his eye.
“ Bloater paste ! ” “ Some tender steak, sir ? ” “ Here f
confound you, where’s my chop ? ”
“ Waiter 1 ” “ Yessir ! ” “ Waiter !” “ Yessir ! !
running till I’m fit to drop.
Then at lunch time—fearful crisis! In by shoals the
gorgers pour,
Gobbling, crunching, swilling, munching—ten times
hungrier than before.
“Glass of. porter!” “ Ale for me, John!” “Where’s
my stick?” “ And where’s my hat 1 ”
“Oxtail soup!” “I asked for curry!” “Cold boiled
beef, and cut it fat l"’
“ Irish stew 1 ” “ Some pickled cabbage I’’ “ What, no
beans?" “ Bring me some pork ! ”
“Soup, sir?” “Yes. You grinning idiot, can I eat it
with a FORK ? ”
“ Take care, waiter 1 ” Beg your pardon. “ Curse you,
have you two left legs ? ”
“ I asked for bread an hour ago, sir 1 ” “ Now then, have
you laid those eggs ? ”
“ Sherry ! ” “ No, I called for beer—ot all the fools I ever
saw 1 ”
“Waiter!” “Yessir!” “Waiter II” “Here, sir!”
“ D—mme, sir, this steak is RAW ! ”
Thus amid this hideous Babel do I live the livelong day,
While my memory is going, and my hair is turning grey.
All my soul is slowly melting, all my brain is softening
And I know that I’ll be taken to the Yarra Bend at last.
For at night from fitful slumbers I awaken with a start,
Murmuring-of steak and onions, babbling .of apple-tart.
While to me the Poet’s cloudland a gigantic kitchen
seems,
And those mislaid table-napkins haunt me even m my
Is this right ?—Ye sages tell me I —Does a man live but to
eat?
Is there nothing worth enjoying but ones miserable
Is the mightiest task of Genius hut to swallow buttered
And has Man but been created to demolish pork and
Is therefno unfed Hereafter, where the round of chewing
Is thermosphere of heaven clammy with perpetual
Do the friends of Mr. Naylor sup on spirit-reared cow-
Can the great Alexis Soyer really say “ Sovez tranquille ?”
Or must I bring spirit beefsteak grilled in spirit regions
hotter? . .., _ „
For the spirit delectation of some spiritual squatter t
Shall I in a spirit kitchen hear the spirit blowflies
humming? . .
Calming spiritual stomachs with a spiritual Coming I
Shall—but this is idle chatter, I have got my work to do.
“ WAITER !! ’’ “ Yessir.” “ Wake up, stupid I Biled
calves’ feet for Number Two ! ”
MAROUS CLARKE.


NEW MANHOOD!
Electricity Poured into Your
Body While You Sleep !
Dr. CLARKSON’S ELECTRIC BELT
WILL fill your nerves with Electricity
every night while you sleep,
and take
Dr. CLARKSON’S
RE-INVI6ORATOR
during the day, and in ten days you will
feel the dawn of new life in every organ
of your body. All the nerves will be
charged with renewed energy, and your
heart will heat stronger with the gladness
of youthful vigor. To men who are
irvous, failing in Vitality, Sleepless,
Despondent, Losing Memory, Wasting
the Vigor of Manhood, Dyspeptic, Weak
in Stomach and Kidneys; who notice a
general collapse of all Vital parts ; to
such men Electricity and the Ke-In-
vigorator as I apply, it will bring happi-
ness and health. Its effect on Weak
Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Its touch is Magnetic.
i
f/sc
v
m 1
*
v^!
©
i
/
BPf
mu m
m w • •-#
if! I it#
gs'tl
'/vs
.-- 7 a
JT PILLS the blood with the fire of
1 youth, and gives new vim and
confidence. While it is on the body,
the nerves teem with vitalising warmth,
and within a few weeks the full vigor
of manhood is restored.
MY ELECTRIC
BODY BELT
has been brought to the highest state
of perfection by twenty years’ study
and experiment. It is unlike any of
the old-style belts, and is warranted to
be stronger than any other body appli-
ance made. It is guaranteed for one
year without any expense for renewals
or repairs.
PRICE : ELECTRIC BELT, 10/-.
Re-lnvigorator, 7/6 Bottle; 3 Bottles £1
Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
If you are Sick or Weak, try my New Method at once. It will save you years of misery and many Doctor’s hills. Call if you Can. If not let
me send you my Pamphlet full of Truth for Men who Want to he Strong.
Call or
Apply:
OWL
CUT
RATE
Cut-Rate Price List Post Free on Application,
Corner ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
The Ides of Morn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A solitary horseman swung at a canter along the
white road. Rather than face a four hours’ jour-
ney in the crawling train which crept laboriously
up-country some 30 miles every afternoon and
dawdled back the following morning, he had
chosen to ride to his destination. Ten years of
absence had dulled his recollection of the misery
of a typical nor’wester, or he might have hesitated
before deliberately facing the hot blast which tore
down the valley. Overhead the sky ached clear
and blue, and the sun shone brightly. The yellow
stubble-fields swept away on either hand to the
yellow-clad tussocked' foot-hills, which in turn
shaded to the yellow-parched mountains. The
gorse and broom glowed in late patches, and their
black seeds crackled in the heat. A flaw of snow
on the distant hill-tops, and an occasional white-
washed farm-house, nestling in a clump of olive-
gums, alone broke the tawny monotony.
The wind had swept the road clear of dust and
had lodged it like driven snow at the foot of tele-
graph-poles and fencing-posts, dusting the hedges
into a mute hopeless grey. It sifted it in at every
chink and crevice, and lodged it in the ears and
eyes and nostrils of horse and rider with insistent
grittiness. But the discomfort was lessened, so far
as the rider was concerned, by his utter oblivious-
ness to his surroundings. Ten years before,
he had left his home, in a passion of boyish
misery, under the regulation circumstances —a
woman’s inability to appreciate his worth. During
the years of monotonous money-making which
followed, he learnt that his impossible She had
followed the proper precedent of the hopelessly
prosaic, and had married his rival. With the tense
earnestness of youth he had believed that he would
never get over his early disappointment, and that
the empty hunger of his heart would never be
appeased. But the flying years had taught him
many things, the fleeting nature of the emotions
among them, and it was without a trace of con-
sciousness and more in a spirit of experimental
curiosity that he set his face homeward. His case
was unique in one respect only : he had never for-
gotten the girl. He had cherished a judiciously
faded recollection of her, and had spent many a
happy spare hour in rebreaking his broken heart.
By some sin of omission “the other girl” had
never eventuated, and he had been left to harrow
his soul with the luxury of recollection. It was a
coincidence, he knew, that the news of the death
of her husband should have reached him shortly
before he decided to revisit the home of his boy-
hood. He was almost annoyed, indeed, at the
infinite possibilities which the situation at once
suggested to him, possibilities which disturbed the
even tenor of his self-consolatory cherishings, and
which necessitated the entire revision of his atti-
tude towards her. She had been left, he learned,
practically unprovided for, and he felt that it was
his obvious duty, by all the tenets of Bret Harte,
to go to her assistance, to regard her as one of the
“fatherless children and widows” of the Litany,
and to act the truly Scriptural character of—■
but he could not recall the Biblical counterpart
which he felt ought to be available. Jacob pro-
vided in a sense the years of waiting, David the
affection for another man’s wife, and the Prodigal
Son the return of the wanderer ; but all had reser-
vations.
It did not take him long to settle down, with
the adaptability to circumstances of the true
philosopher, into his new attitude. He was
speedily persuaded—by himself—that his idol, as
a young' and charming widow, was much more to
be desired than even the winsome girl who had
been the ideal of his early manhood. Although
he knew that ten years of married life must have
changed her, with the faithful inconsistency of
even a convalescent passion he failed to realise it,
and the picture which swam before his mental
vision was always that of the girl, not that of the
woman. On the lazy voyage out he had derived a
good deal of satisfaction from the position, which
he conceived to possess certain dramatic features.
He lived over the coming meeting, in anticipation,
many times. She would be surprised to see him,
of course, and a little reserved at first, for she
would not quite understand their new attitude
until he gave the cue. But when she learned that
it was for her sake that he had returned, the
realisation of his long years of fidelity would
touch her, and she would surrender to him with a
half-tearful reservation which his tenderness and
love would soon dispel. Thereafter, by all the ac-
cepted precedents of fiction, their future would be
one long heritage of colorless content. His brief
renewal of his acquaintance with his native land
had sharpened his retrospective faculty, and the
blurred image which he had so often recalled took
a more definite shape. The night before he had
left home, in a sudden access of pity she had
kissed him at the garden gate, and he now re-
called her—slight, willowy, with a glory of golden
hair and a depth of violet eyes.
The clatter of passing hoofs roused him to a
realisation that eight dusty miles lay between him
and his destination. As he spurred his horse he
noticed that a stream which he was crossing was
turgid and yellow. The phenomenon struck him
as peculiar until he remembered that it was in the
hot-wind season that the rivers of the district
flooded through the melting of the snows upon
the hills. He crossed the Koroiti at a swollen
ford, and left the ford for a dimly-remembered
bridle-track which brought him out upon the
banks of the Waikaio a mile below the township.
The river, which at ordinary times stole treacher-
ously along, a stone’s-throw wide, now surged by
in a torrent of seething discolored water, half-a-
mile across. The sullen stream tugged and
snarled at the shingle banks and gulped hungrily
at the clods which fell away. Sheaves of yellow
grain swept past. A dead sheep circled irreso-
lutely into a backwater at his feet, hung unde-
cidedly there for a few seconds, and then
was seized and shot seaward once again by
the angry current. Logs, fences, saplings—all
the flotsam and jetsam of a sudden rising of the
waters —whirled past with dizzy reiteration. He
had seen it all before, long ago, and he felt that it
was but another bizarre variation of the theme of
reminiscence which he had been practising for
some days. Nevertheless, it irritated him. He
had a conservative dislike for anomaly. The
proper accompaniment for the flooded water he
conceived to be rain and storm and sullen skies.
The pitiless sunshine and the brilliant, cloudless
sky seemed in ill-accord with the wicked waters and
the parching wind. It struck a vage formless note
of admonition, which jarred. As he moved up the
river bank, one by one familiar objects, long for-
gotten, stole upon him. There was much that
was new—the railway had come during his ab-
sence—but there was still sufficient of the old days
to stir a vague ache. The township stood upon a
river flat, near to the fertile foot-hills responsible
for its existence, but bare itself of vegetation. It
looked bleak and unattractive enough in the glare
of the afternoon as he approached. His head
ached with the heat, the flying grit stung his
face, and the dust parched his throat and lay in
streaks upon his perspiring'cheeks. His eyes and
temples pulsed painfully. The thought sprang
almost to utterance on his lips: “Good God,
fancy living here ! ” The full misery of it smote
him with a physical pain.
He had intended to seek lodgment at a cousin’s
house, but in his present frame of mind he re-
volted at the restrictions of social domesticity,
and reined up his tired horse in front of the
Waikaio Hotel, an unpretentious wooden strue-
ture of one storey, which abutted on the stony
station-yard, and which was unfamiliar to him.
The township seemed deserted. A couple of
swaggers seated upon a bench under the hotel
verandah eyed him with almost insulting indiffer-
ence. He hitched his horse to a post and engaged
a room. It was cooler inside, and after a lavish
wash he hastened to claim a meal. As he entered
the bar-parlor a slatternly-dressed woman, with
down-at-heel shoes and a shawl thrown over her
head for covering, left the bar-door carrying a
billy of beer. A small boy in an almost disreput-
able state of tatters clung to her skirts. He had
but a momentary glimpse of her, but something
even in the unfamiliar carriage struck him with a
feeling akin almost to dismay. A brief interro-
gation of the landlord .confirmed his half-con-
jecture, and his dinner turned to “ dead sea fruit ”
upon his lips.
It was only after the solace of a pipe and a good
“ think ” that his loyalty laid to his charge the
continuance of his mission. He remembered that
the little meannesses of poverty can wilt the
beauty of any woman, and that it is hard to be
neat and tidy and self-respecting in the sordid
surroundings of indigent widowhood. He had
intended to surprise her, but after his newest ex-
perience he thought it better to warn her of his
coming.
The wind bad fallen when he knocked at her
door, and the night was cool and calm. She came
out to greet him. She was tidily dressed now,
and he could trace in the somewhat worn features
of the woman before him some recollection of the
girl he had loved. He did not enter the house,
but took her hands unresistedly in his and told
her plainly and straightforwardly what his errand
was. The meeting was not what he had so often
pictured, and it smote home to him irresistibly
that perhaps he had, after all, only been in love
with being in love, and that the cherishing of a
+L I6 n v+ Sl ? g qme * bttle
on solitude of his own fireside
r re P leasurab .\ e P ai P
monotonous domesticity with
wb ° stood before him
self lx | thefirst flush of
?’Jt° G^ by ’ st . o( ?d tohisguns.
something of bis thoughts;
y/ e q H UI ? k ln tuition of her sex
hiVi fhf /it/ p rd him °r b she dismissed
him with the reservation, won from her by an
in P tS tame W mind a in 7 Ixf 10nat( ?’ tllat lf , be were
m° rn i n g'-~ l n the hard
matter-of-fact cruel daylight—she would answer
him. He took her at her word, and with just a
hand-clasp left her standing in the doorway. As
he looked back she was almost beautiful in the
radiance of a rising moon, and something of the
old affection yearned in him and tugged at him to
return and claim her at once. He should have
gone back and kissed her then. He did not. For
an hour he paced the roadway near at hand,
The eucalyptus, tremulously weary, rustled above
him. Bubbles of lurid lightning burst on the
grey horizon, and the vivid stars hung over-
head in a velvet sky. It was so quiet, so
restful, so peaceful, that it seemed to him that he
could do nothing better and nothing nobler than
win this woman and settle down once more in his
old home.
The morning dawned bright and sunny. He
, was bi waking and had to hurry through his
breakfast. Outside in the station-yard all was
bustle. There was a clanging of bells, a shriek of
en « lae whistles and much bumping and josthng
aad fussing as the busy little locomotive snuffled
about on the interminable shunting operations of
country sidings. There was a frowsy and un-
kempt look about the waitress who hung over the
ha>ole, and the hideous stolidity and mere physi-
calness of the men who moved about the station
and loitered near the hotel appalled him. Ihe
gum-trees, beneath which he had paced the night
before, were lean and patchy in the daylight, and
the dry, parched, sterile flat, and stubbled foot-
bills, uncompromisingly uninteresting. He ex-
Perienced a quick revulsion of feelmg. Things
looked so different in the day-time, and he could
not nd hl ? mind . of the of a slatternly
Wol l nan with a billy of beer, and an unkempt
urchin at her heels.
As the tram shuffled noisily out of the station
the sunshine was creeping down the hillsides. The
level beams struck upon an untidy lean-to with
pitiless severity. A small boy with a dirty face
) vas vigorously banging an empty kerosene-tin
in the section at the back, in the intervals
of . biting huge semi-circles out of a substantial
sllce of bread-and-dripping and chasing a trio of
disreputably lean fowls which had escaped from a
shelter improvised from rusty sheet-iron and wire-
netting. At the doorway a woman was stationed
w i fc h a wa sh-tub. Her arms were bare to the
elbows. She wore no collar, and the two upper-
most buttons of her bodice were missing. One or
two w i s P s of hair had worked down across her hot,
damp forehead. She did not look up as the*train
passed, but as it rounded the curve a hundred
y ar ds away she shaded her eyes with her hand and
l?°ked out across the bare plain, the glittering
nver » an d the shadowed hills to where the sun
was shining, as she had looked daily, it seemed to
ber ’ f° r almost a lifetime. And a man upon the
Platform saw and noted it.
HUBERT MITCHELL.
The usual crop of fool-wagers on U.S.
Presidential election is already turning up. One
crank supporting Bryan is to engage in a butting-
match with a full-grown ram if his man loses, the
opponent being pledged to twist the tail of a mule
every day for three weeks, or till death if the mule
kicks sooner. One Cartwright will support the
mother-m-law of neighbor Jones if M'Kinley
wins, Jones’s risk being to tend Cartwright’s
heating-apparatus all through the winter. Other
forfeits are to wheel a barrow from N’York to
’Frisco; to shave one side (only) of the face for
four years ; to wear all clothing wrong-side-before
during Bryan’s term of office ; and to eat crow-pie
every day for breakfast for the same period.


Unable to Sleep, Could IMot Eat,
Nerves Upset, Joints Swollen.
A Grand Family Medicine, Good for all from the Young-
est to the Oldest. After the Doctors had Failed to Cure,
Health was Quickly Restored by taking
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
v
iNct long ago X was extremely ill. 1 could not sleep, eat, or work. My heart would throb
violently with the slightest exertion. My nerves were all upset and my joints were swollen so I
could hardly take a step.
“ All the doctors failed to cure me and I was completely discouraged. A friend then per-
suaded me to try Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and Pills. In a few days I felt better and it took only
two bottles of the Sarsaparilla to restore me to complete health.
“My husband has taken Ayer’s Sarsaparilla with the greatest benefit, too. It cured him
rftaufUt. " **--•» —suffering from boils.
the most wonderful effects,
strong.”
This is the testimony of Mrs. Julia Osborne, Grand Junction Road, Rose-
rater, Adelaide, So. Australia. She sends us her family photograph, which, we
g i ve above.
Good for all members of the family; hence its name
“The World’s Greatest Family NSedicine.”
You must certainly be convinced that Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a most won-
derful family medicine. It takes out all kinds of poisons from the blood, fills it
with life-giving power, and is the strongest nerve-tonic you can take.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
A Splendid Medicine for Children.
Tho cura is hastened by taking AYER’S PILLS, a pleasant and easj laxative.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK EOE
lIA#I
'JungTonic
BE SUEE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
w. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. lid., 2s. 9 d., is. 6<t,
and Us., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
coFYaiasr.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PEECHAM’S
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Tleadache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and D owsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos r ivene»\ Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore tamales to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the R( skbud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame, these
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham's Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieinc in
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold K very where, in Boxes, 9£d, Is l/,d, and 12s 9d each.
m
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
BMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old,but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasion* and
everybody • public speaking made easy. is 6d post.
Practicat Pa 'uptry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Car br’s Tr cks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post is .d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist; post free la. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is (id post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Eduoate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 8s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
W riter, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Lips Unveiled, lsfld post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chev Abbe’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 0d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING! AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him —are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG! BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
I n
e Jolliest Book of the Year.
“ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
hSER
nm
n
m
nm
n
mn
Sen-Sen &
RINGCOHAVE
LONDON.
mmUABEE TO
, SIMGERS X SPEAKERS
fef
m SSk£QT
&
o
/Q)
m
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
nm
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Bronchitis,
YIELD QUICKLY TO
Coughs
ITS
and
ACTION.


THE BMBTEUR fiARPEMER . .
Wbo Loves His Flowers^*-
Should Get Oue Illustrated List of
(aardep Hose 111I 11 Fittipgs
—POST FREE.
n
270 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND • »
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THfEIIWO RTHI N GTO N
IS THE ORIGINAL
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
and 34 Clarence
N.S.W.
SPOONS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<She
'■ ?:'l:
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
mark.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St,,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK"
CoUins Street, MELBOURNE.
UP
YEARS DYEING
LADIES.
FOR
THE
W. O- &
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 Yonii stiU'Ji;t, Sydney
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post h'om all the colonies promptly
attended to.
mn
George and
Market-Sts.
Board or Apartments at Option.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING*
COC O A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
f:
■
IS?
■
PASTEURISED
BUTTER •• •
The same remarks that appl y to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your Orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use bad butter is dear
at any price. The famous “ Berry ” brand Pasteurised butter can be,obtained only from this Company.
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
COMPRESSORS
m
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
ROCK
DRILLS
“New Ingersoll.”
THE INCERSOLL-SERCEANT DRILL GO.,
PARKE & LACY C°? L T .?
S"STJ33Sr3E!"y, KT.S.-W.
Blake Steam Pumps
'. -W:
m
,
“DUPLEX”
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN SONS L**£Eg
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
AKING
PR!Z
POWDER.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR
tomato sauce. jelly crystals.
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
| I OL LOW AY’S FILLS AND OINTMENT
J * There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
m every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 N kw Oxkohii-bt., London. Pur-
chnseiis should look to the Label on the IJoxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
l?n«2 al £ ,rteed t 0 Cure lhe WORST CASK of DRUNKEN-
NKSS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Oan be Kiveil secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters Of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address— MALlNC REMEDY CO.,
38 Elizabeth-street. SYDNEY.
