

McEWAN’S A-I-.E.
GAELIC WHISKY.
BEAVER STOUT.
G XX .A. XX A.IXTTDE3ESX3
3E»TT3EI.E3
JILTED COCOA
COCOA A.IXTO EXTRACT OF MALT.
R. CSr. WATKINS «SC CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXP] OSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Over 2400 Hyilro-Extractors Sold and at work
WINE!
WINE!
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST
AUSTRALIA.
SSS~ Send for Price List
Mention this paper,
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ss ntt street, SYDNEY
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-1
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE
Testimonials and full particulars.
Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar,
PARTS STOCKED. Send for
THORNE’S
Established 1831.
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY.
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
*■ ■
fg
★
bcobaht.
-^ —
Hadley’s Orient jjotel.
m r
JJJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
vviMl’or/K’s GEORGE HOTELt opposite Sb
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
■Ujo
9
THE
One
RRn.ll2 Bottles Sold
Month
CHEAPEST AND THE BEST.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The ije&umg iieil ox ix-ustraxia.
Unsurpassed lor Durability anil Chsapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWIUI & SON, LTD.,
117 Yorli Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.
.'RICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
IHQMSI A’Q —-gak
BOOMERANG BRANDY.
THE LATEST TESTIMONY .OF APPRECIATION.
AGAIN TO THE FRONT!
By mail from London Messrs. JOSHUA BROS, have been informed that
the Army Contracts’ Director has taken a supply of their Brandy
For tbe Use of the Imperial Troops ip S. Africa.
in Flasks, Half-Flasks and Bottles.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Elisvau • Lamp.
im
t'm
CD!«JV-'.\N
OFI
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDiiTl& SWAM
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street
WYKYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nslandDepofc—Central Buildin s, Ed«ard-st., Brisbane
The Bulletin
Vui 22. iN«. iUGO. j
[Saturday, June 9, 1900.
Ppy s+er'd at. the Genera! Past Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the PreTention
of Consumption.
h
A. The Larysx, or organ o!
Toioe.
B. The Trachba or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tube* of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of toe lungs.
SUITED
tar
OLD »nd YOUNG,
and
Inralo&ble to
SINGER*
Kid
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered),
.. . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous tkrmy . . .
BY AM. CHEMISTS, In Tins, 1s 6d j from ttw Proprietor, G. HUDSOJS, Gheamk, Iptvritk,
on recaipt of'stamps. Sydnay Bapot: 5 and 7 QUSifIMI PLAGE.
ISS
THE RED PAGE.
Robert Bridges.
ROBERT BRIDGES, the feeble-pulsed
poet of faint airs, delicate odours,
and soft sylvan sweetness, was born
in English Kent in ’44 ; and to-day,
at 55, is settled in Berkshire. A retiring
physician (now retired), he waited till he
was forty ere marrying (with many pre-
liminary courtship tremors suggested in his
verse) Miss Mary Monica Waterhouse. For
long a dainty dish in privately-printed
pamphlets, his poems were collected last
year in two volumes—“ The Poetical Works
of Robert Bridges.”
They are two volumes of sighs and amorous
breathings for the Muse, who never fully em-
braced her timid worshipper. Always a little
too calm, perhaps a little too cultured, the poet
never gains or gives the highest ecstasy. He
is not Beauty’s master, but a page in Beauty’s
train, touching now her rustling skirt-hem,
and anon strewing flowers for her path—
lilies, and white rosebuds, and fragrant
woodland daisies. Decidedly a poet for the
few who deem themselves elect. And his
Australian analogue—almost homologue —is
Hubert Church, of Maoriland.
Bridges begins his “ Works ” by decking
Greek legends with English rhyme. He
relates the myth of “Prometheus the Fire-
Giver,” and tenderly tells the story of
“Er;>s and Psyche.” In the collection of
sonnets, regular and irregular, which he calls
“ The Growth of Love ” —Though, as in
Rossetti’s “ House of Life,” not all are ger-
mane with the title—isfound his most mettled,
most pithy and pqignant verse ; though not,
maybe, his most poetical. But Bridges’
poetry is not compound of pith and sun-
: strong mettle, but of sensitive fancy, delicate
allusion, and the moonbeam-stuff of Arcady.
He has wandered over Helicon without
quaffing Aganippe, and might say, in his
medical tongue, that his verse is a cooling
and healing lotion, not a fiery and inspiring
draught. Yet his shorter poems are truly,
if faintly, lyric, and most melancholy musical.
To a breath and a blossom he rightly likens
his song, and featly, and sweetly—
I have loved flowers that fade,
Within whose magic tents
Rich hues have marriage made
With sweet unmemoried scents:
A honeymoon delight,—
A joy of love at sight,
That ages in an hour: —
My song be like a flower !
I have loved airs, that die
Before their charm is writ
Along a liquid sky
Trembling to welcome it.
Notes, that with pulse of fire
Proclaim the spirit’s desire,
Then die, and are nowhere:—
My song be like an air !
Die, song, die like a breath,
And wither as a bloom:
Fear not a flowery death,
Dread not an airy tomb !
Fly with delight, fly hence !
’Twas thine love’s tender sens®
To feast; now on thy bier
Beauty shall shed a tear.
Or he will mirror Nature—
. . . these sweet-springing meads and bursting
boughs of May—
or the October landscape when—
Out of the golden green and white
Of the brake the fir-trees stand upright
In the forest of flame, and wave aloft
To tho blue of heaven their blue-green tuftings
soft.
But always you must read him aloud; for he
is an ear-poet, and learned in the English
music, and for music or to music many of
his shorter poems hare been written. And,
as his manner holds much of the best that is
called classic, it may be that by-and-by, like
the Elizabethans, he will be treasured by
the finer spirits of a far generation, though
he have only the post-Elizabethan sweet-
ness, and nothing of the Elizabethan might.
Yet the “Elegy on a Lady, whom Grief for the
Death of Her Betrothed Killed,” is a stately
measure not unworthy to move beside the
lamentation for Lycidas. And “ Love ! and
Be Joyous ! and Love ! ” is the essence of
all Bridges’ preachment—
Think not of what misfeaturas
Or cares the year may bring ;
But unto love
Resign your simple nature*.
To tender love.
-¥
Here « English Cobbett redivivus in S. A. Rosa,
Australian demagogue and grammarian ! With
Rosa, the revolutionary-orator, Southern-Australia
is more or less acquainted ; but the Rosauthor erf
■*“ Ungrammatical Statesmen : an Exposure of the
Bad English contained in the Australian Federal
Constitution,” is nova avis in terris austrulibus.
While other eyes have been fixed on the
spirit*of the Commonwealth Constitution, Rosa’s
have scanned its dry bones—and now he
rattles ’"'them with a> antriFederal ven-
geance ! And the naisehief of it is that
Rosa, with his eighteen Authorities Lom Chureh-
ill to Mason behind him — ,r An Austr[al]ian Army
Awfully Arrayed ’* —is right erften. Not always ;
for he has not yet risen to the eoneeption the*
Language is “ a living entity, no* a dead aggee-
gate,” and that last yeaA» grammar may be as
shabby in the seams as las* year’s elothes. And
by the might of Euphony he is unmoved. Stall —
bis pen touches, it pierces !
Saith Constitution § 71 —
The High Court shall consist of a Chief Justice, and ao
many other justices, not less than two, as the Parliament
prescribes.
So is wrong, says Rosa. It is at least awkward.
Not less should be no fewer, says Rosa. It should
—or not fewer. Prescribes should be may pre-
scribe, says Rosa. It should. Then the clause
would read—
The High Court shall consist of a Chief Justice and M
many other justices, not fewer than two, as the Parlia-
ment may prescribe.
Constitution §5l says Parliament shall have
power to make laws with respect to “ Invalid and
Old-Age Pensions.” This is ambiguous, says
Rosa. It is. It should be “ Pensions to Aged
Invalids” or “Pensions to Invalids and to Aged
Persons ” —whichever is meant.
But the critic fetters relative pronouns too
closely. “I heard it from the boy who takes
round the beer ” is better, not worse, than “ I
heard it from the boy that takes round the beer”;
because the first sentence is more perspicuous and
more euphonious. That is an indefinite word as
compared with the precise who and which, and
nowadays is used too frequently in their places.
The Constitution-framers frequently use in
respect of for in respect to or with respect to —mean-
ing “ with reference to.” Rosa says they are
wrong. And they are—though their fashion is
extending.
The Constitution says “the first five years”
(§ 93). Rosa says “ the five first years.” Dis-
honours are easy. “ During a period of five
years,” etc., evades the hypercritic.
§ 100. “ The Commonwealth shall not abridge
the right of a State to the reasonable use of the
waters of rivers for conservation or irrigation.”
Read, says Rosa, “to the reasonable use, for
conservation or irrigation, of the waters of rivers.”
Right again.
§ll4. “A State shall not ... or .. ." .§ll5.
“ A State shall not . . . nor ...” “The Conven-
tion spurns idle consistency,” says the Rosatirist.
And so on. “In conclusion,” ceclares Cobbett
11., “ there are very many more ” errors. Gene-
rally speaking, his indictment of the Constitution’s
English is sustained. And unless the Constitution
is to be a butt for schoolboys’ ridicule, the flaws
must be mended.
♦ '
A recent reference to Kendall’s uncollected
verses has brought these two interesting and (said
to be) unpublished poems, with a letter to the
poet’s patron, R. D. Stenhouse.
Survey Offices,
Feb. 7th, 1866.
My dear Mr. Stenhouse,
I cannot manage much with “ Kathleen Aroon.”
The metre is perplexingly short, and moreover it
flies off, at right angles, from trochaic to iambic
feet. I must add also that the rhymes are as
legions. However, I send you two attempts in
the way of new words for a really lovely air. In
case you are at all pleased with them will you
kindly let me know. But do not pass judgment
till the lady of whom you were speaking has sung
them for you.
I am, my dear Mr. Stenhouse,
Faithfully yours,
Henry Khndall.
R. D. Stenhouse, Esq.
I have had a letter from one of the editors of
Fraser. He tells me I can write for that maga-
zine. This is very encouraging in the face of my
local disappointments.
Somebody in search of the longest word in Eng-
lish has found, in the “ Life of Archbishop Ben-
son” (p. 441), certain people alluded to as “Anti-
disestablishmentarians.” “ Would n’t ‘ mules ’ be
shorter (says somebody) and equally expressive ? ”
Robert Richardson adds a “Russell of the
Scotsman ” story—
Towards the close of Russell’s life, there was a scheme
among the Liberal party to present him with a substan-
tial sum of money in recognition of his great services to
the Liberal cause. Russell was in doubt as to whether he
should accept this form of reward for his work, and for
advice sought an old Highland friend, in whose judgment
he placed great reliance. The Highlander heard Russell’s
scruples, and then tendered him this advice: “Sandy,
my mon, gin they offer ye ten thousand, tak’ it, but gin
it’s less than ten thousand dinna’ tak’ it, and say ye
wouldna hae taken it gin it had been twenty thousand.”
Doggerel printed in Sydney—regarding which
the aut .or declares that “His Excellency Earl
Beauchamp has honoured me by transmitting
some copies (in gold type) to Mr. Chamberlain,
the Right Honourable the Secretary of State for
the Colonies, for presentation toller Most Gracious
Majesty.”
Gov. Beauchamp is said to have recently spoken
praise of The Bulletin for “ fostering Australian
literature.” But it remained for Gov. Beauchamp
to foster that.
Orthographical Evaoustes A. Phipson, from
London—
Taking “ ballerina ” as an Italian word, the plural is, of
course, “ ballerine," but it is surely sufficiently naturalised
to be treated as English with the plural “ ballerinas,’
otherwise you might equally urge that We should say
“ portict,” “ studl," etc. It is far better to give the
benefit of any doubt in favor of the Anglicised form,
especially in Australia, where fewer of the population
have the opportunity of talking French or Italian than
even in England. It is mere affectation to pronounce (or
rather attempt to pronounce) prestige, massage, envelope,
employee, baccarat, vase, renascent, fiance, accouchment,
basrelief, pomade, promenade, amateur, impass, restau-
rant, clientele, etc., as if they were French, and to write
others, where the sound is unaltered, in Italics or with
accents, as detour, role, hotel. As for dipdt, it is either
French, in which case it requires both accents, or elst
English, when it needs none ; and naive, naivety are just
as good English as gay and gaiety. You might also use
your influence to abolish the senseless and unpronounc-
able word vigneron, peculiar to Australia (how do the poor
people there try to say it ?), and reinstate the plain English
vintner. If you must have a foreign expression, much
better use the German winzer. There is no more reason
for saying tomahto than potahto, nor lahva than volcahno.
Wrongly spelt foreign words are cwragdo, mostaccio, mac-
cheroni, basso rilievo, guerrillero, schottisch, opera buffa,
while the meaningless phrase, “ It goes without saying,”
for “It needs no saying,” and “on the carpet ” for “ on
the (table) cloth,” are so idiotic that one would think even
the most hopeless snob would not use them.
Some correspondents—
Alone : Carlyle referred td conceptions, not facts. It
is quite possible to conceive “Infinity” in relation with
Space, and “ Eternity” in relation with Time ; though
we cannot conceive “ Eternity " and “ Infinity ” in them-
selves.
Syb. : Drink coffee as they used to drink it in the gay
French Ardennes—ten cups after dinner, each cup with
its name, to wit (1) Gafe, (2) Gloria, (3) Pousse Oaf 6, (4)
Goutte, (S) Re-goutte, (6) Sur-goutte, (7) Rinoette, (8)
Re-rincette, (9) Sur-rincette, (10) Coup de l’6trier. You
begin with pure coffee, and add a little more cognac to
every cup till you end with pure cognac. (This piece of
wisdom is not, as you might think, our own. It comes
from Brewer’s “ Dictionary of Phrase and Fable.”)
THE BOOKFELLOW.
DENIEHY'S LAMENT.
Air: “Kathleen Aroon."
Spirit of Loveliness ! Heart of my heart /
Flying so far from me, Heart of my heart /
Above the eastern hill, I know the red leaves thrill,
But though art distant still, Heart of my heart /
Sinning, I've searched for thee, Heart of my heart!
Sinning, I've dreamed of thee, Heart of my heart /
I know no end nor gain; amongst the paths of pain
I follow thee in vain, Heart of my heart 1
Much have I lost for thee, Heart of my heart /
Not counting the cost for thee, Heart of my heart /
Through all this year of years thy form as mist
appears,
So blind am I with tears, Heart of my heart /
Mighty and mournful now, Heart of my heart t
Cometh the Shadow-Face, Heart of my heart!
he friends I've left for thee, their sad eyes trouble
me —
I cannot bear to be, Heart of my heart!
* Intended to be a lament over his vain search after a
beautiful but impossible Ideal. How much his
Dream led him astray I need not say.
DENIEHY'S DREAM.
Air : “ Kathleen Aroon."
Just when the western light
Flickered out dim,
Flushing the mountain-side,
Summit and rim,
A last low lingering gleam
Fell on a yellow stream,
And then there cam « a dream,
Shining to him.
Splendours miraculous
Mixed with his pain
AU like a vision of
Radiance and rain !
He faced the sea, the skies ;
Old star-like thoughts did rise ;
But tears were in his eyes
Stilled in vain.
Infinite tokens */
Sorrows set free
Came in the dreaming wind
Far from the sea !
Fast years about him, trooped.
Fair phantoms round brim stopped,
Sweet faces o’er him drooped
Sad as could be/
“ This is our brother stow:
Sisters, deplore
Sian without purpose, hike
Ship without shore l
He tracks false fire,” one said,
“ j ßut weep you—he must tread
Whereto he may be led/
Lost evermorel”
“ Look,” said another,,
"Summit and slope
Bum, in the mountain-land—
Basement and cope /
Till daylight, dying dim,
Faints on the world's red rim,
We’ll tint this Dream for him
Even—with hope / ”
TOM DARING: A SOLDIER’S SONG.
Here but cold clay lies poor Tom Daring,
The bravest of our corps ;
We’ll miss his tall form and manly bearing
When peace shall reign once more.
True to his oath when he took the Queen’s shilling,
To serve, with devotion and love,
His Queen and his country, Tom ever was willing ;
And now he’s gone to serve above.
True to a fault, no care for to-morrow,
Honest, sober, and kind ;
Tom had a partner in joy and sorrow,
But now she’s left behind.
Tender and true she will always remember
Her Tom with his rough-hearted love ;
It may be in June, or it may be December,
One day she will join him above.
Like a brave soldier, Tom ever was ready
The bugle’s call to hear ;
Fearless of danger, in action steady,
The battle’s brunt to bear.
When the last bugle shall sound the great muster
To summon all ranks up above,
There we’ll find Tom with a crown of great lustre,
For bravery, devotion and love.
From "The Growth of Love.”
By HOBERT BRIDGES.
O flesh and blood, comrade to tragic pat.
And clownish merriment; whose sense could wait
Sermons in stones, and count death but an achat
All things as vanity, vet nothing vain :
The world, set in thy heart, thy passionate strain
Reveal’d anew; but thou for man didst make
Nature twice natural, only to shake
Her kingdom with the creatures of thy brain.
Lo, Shakespeare, since thy time nature is loti
To yield to art her fair supremacy ;
In conquering one thou hast so enriched both.
What shall I say ? for God—whose wise decree
Confirmetli all He did by all He doth—
Doubled His whole creation making thee.
My lady pleases me and I please her;
This know we both, and I besides know well
Wherefore I love her, and I love to tell
My love, as all my loving songs aver.
But what on her part could the passion stir,
Tho’ ’tis more difficult for love to spell,
Yet can I dare divine how this befel,
Nor will her lips deny it if I err.
She loves me first because I love her, then
Loves me for knowing why she should be loved,
And that I love to praise her, loves again.
So from her beauty both our loves are moved,
And by her beauty are sustain’d; nor when
The earth falls from the sun is this disproved.
In all things beautiful, I eanndt see
Her sit or stand, but love is stir’d anew:
’Tis joy to watch the folds fall as they do,
And all that comes is past expectancy.
If she be silent, silence let it be ;
He who would bid her speak might sit and sue
The deep-brow’d Phidian Jove to be untrue
To his two thousand years’ solemnity.
Ah, but her launched passion, when she sings,
Wins on the hearing like a sharpen prow
Borne by the mastery of its urgent wings :
Or if she deign her wisdom, she doth show
She hath the intelligence of heavenly tilings,
Unsullied by man’s mortal overthrow.
I care not if I live, tho ! life and breath
Have never been to me so dear and sweet.
I care not if I die, for .! could meet —
Being so happy—happily my death.
1 care not if 1 love ; to-day she saith
She loveth, and love’s history is complete.
Nor care I if she love me; at, her feet
My spirit bows entranced and worshippeth.
1 have no care for what was most my care,
But all around me see fresh beauty born,
And common sights grown lovelier than they
were:
I dream of love, and in the light of morn
Tremble, beholding all things very fair
And strong with strength that puts my strength
to scorn.
O Mil t mid ms divine sometimes I say :
Now let this word for ever and all suffice ;
Thou art insatiable, and yet not twice
Can even thy lover give his soul away :
And for my acts, that at thy feet I lay ;
For never any other, by device
Of wisdom, love or beauty, could entice
My homage to the measure of this day.
I have no more to give thee : 10, I have sold
My life, have emptied out my heart, and spent
Whate’er I had ; till like a beggar, bold
With nought to lose, I laugh and am content.
A beggar kisses thee ; nay love, behold, -
I fear not: thou too art in beggarment.
Since not the enamour’d sun with glance more fond
Kisses the foliage of his sacred tree,
Than doth my waking thought arise on thee,
Loving none near thee, like thee nor beyond ;
Nay since I am sworn thy slave, and in the bo*4
Is writ my promise of eternity,;
Since to such high hope thou’st encouraged me,
That if thou look but from me I despond ;
Sinoe tliou’rt my all in all, 0 think of this :
Think of the dedication of my youth :
Think of my loyalty, my joy, my bliss :
Think of my sorrow, my despair and ruth,
My sheer annihilation if I miss :
Think —if thou shouldst be false—think of Htj
truth.
Love that I know, love I am wise in, 1ot«,
My strength, my pride, my grace, my skill un-
taught,
My faith here upon earth, my hope above,
My contemplation and perpetual thought:
The pleasure of my fancy, my heart’s fire,
My joy, my peace, my praise, my happy theme,
The aim of all my doing, my desire
Of being, my life by day, by night my dream:
Love, my sweet melancholy, my distress,
My pain, my doubt, my trouble, my despair,
My only folly and unhappiness,
And in my careless moments still my care:
0 love, sweet love, earthly love, love divine,
Sayst thou to-day, O love, that thou art mine ?
Ah*tieavenly joy ! But who hath ever heard,
Who hath seen joy, or who shall ever find
Joy’s language ? There is neither speech nor
word;
Nought but itself to teach it to mankind.
Scarce in our twenty thousand painful days
We may touch something: but there live*—
beyond
The best of art, or nature’s kindest phase—
The hope whereof our spirit is fain and fond:
The cause of beauty given to man’s desires,
Writ in the expectancy of starry skies,
The faith which gloweth in our fleeting fires,
The aim of all the good that here we prize ;
Which but to love, pursue and pray for well
Maketh earth heaven, and to forget it, hell.


DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLOROPyHE
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, «fec., bears on
the Government Stamp tlie name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, lays:
"If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk._ I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation."
30 Days’ Trial.
fg
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A EE LI A N CES
a trial of 80 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belt» will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we aay, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most scepticaL
Address:
G-erman Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
A
W
Y Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor .-—STEPHEN GREEN,
210 Lambeth Ed., London, S.ES.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
tor my invaluable little pamphlet.
DRUNKEN NESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physioians. Write tor
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
“ LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CUBE ECZEMA (“ Psoriasis
Acne”). BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT, VIC.
HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL. .
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS of ENERGY,
etc. Has CURED Thousands for the BLOOD,
SKIN, NERVES, RHEUMATISM, etc.
“ WORDS OF WISDOM.” Tllis Free Book about
the Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40
pages of useful information, and will be posted in
plain cover absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address: ®
The Irving Homoeopathic Co.,
Comer Hunter and Bligh Streets,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering £|JCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
'l'
<£>
v>
IP
RNS
OLD
SUHBU
FING
CH
"V
&S.C
s
Y
p So
p,?| etors
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Brokers,
Consolidated Charge)
for Selling Wool /
2i per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
\ cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices : 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
STORES : CENTRAL WHARF.
SOLE CHARGE—3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. lm.
S YDKTE Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Hew Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
111 New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :
COMMISSION I per Cent.
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over Gd. per lb.,
the charge will be ... ... ... ... ... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising Gd. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. Gd. per Bale.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. Gd. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of marsupial Skins Held. Weekly.
hfgfg
LAWRENCE’S PATENT TOBACCO CUTTER.
Price £6.
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
jj otk These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended totobacconists
in the country so as to enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Cut and Moist Tobacco.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.
OU>
&o<ct x <ojU%
ftSK FOR
pf
COMBINES
WHISKY
PERFECTION OF QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY
8
0^
iN
fRE
ROCHESTCR LODGE
Collins Place East, ]y[elt)oliriie.
Private Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trains, trains and theatres.
Terms Moderate. Mrs ’
hf
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part ot Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Truce, 10s. (id.
gh
“I'll Try It." Sole Agents: The Result.
Craig & Aitken. 680-682 George- Bt„ Sydney
AMUSEMENT for OLD and lOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments). Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716)f> and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
>\. H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Medical.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
m
MEDICATOR.
(CATARRH is inflammation of the
'- y lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If tliis in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages whioli lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. IJo you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Mlrippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Hon?e Catarrb Ctirc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
« COMMON SENSE EAll DRUM”
THE
DEAF
BEA&
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
Eost-card to-day for illustrated
ook, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
Beat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
I Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
fg
Weak
Men.
There is nothing like ELECTRICITY to put life, vim
or vigor into weak men or women. Drugs give but
temporary relief; act merely as a stimulant, but Elec-
tricity flies to all weak parts of the body, imparting
Nature’s force thereto and doing the required work surely
and in a permanent manner. If “ run down ”in health
and strength you had better try Electricity. Use an
Electric Belt, for that is the best method of applying it;
but be sure you get a good one while you are about it;
in short, try “ Dr. Pierce’s,” for it is guaranteed to be the
best Eb ctric Belt on earth.
“ Booklet No. 2,” sent by mail for a stamp, tells
all about it. Address
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market Street, SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A., or
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated dropt.
FER BRATAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingthc constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
' debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-‘*maj all
the good effectx of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
SOt.D BY CHEMISTS AI.L THE WORM) OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
Dkah Sir.—Plta.se inform your ream.ro that. i have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
t call sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
TOJRONTO.
CANADA.
hf
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET, DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE ' J
H IGH-CftAPE FARM lIVI PL EM ENTS AND
M A CHINER Y.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Car© g-EO.
ADAMS, Hobart.
Canterbury Midwinter H.
June 23.
25,000 Subscribers at g.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo.
shares in above.
Kamo
£ «
Address
:
Grand National H. July 7.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.
Address
Silver City C. July 25.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
.shares in above.
Name,
Address.
Silver City C. (SPECIAL).
DRAWN MORNING OF THE RACE.
25,G00 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C.
November 6
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C. November 6
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me— shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatters all,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


modern
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
\
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
$
' l °. %
p^RP-°
e» c * w «A
. „vaV^ a^ A c^ eS
Vs a \ r _ lds .
eaU °^ S atvd °
CoUg iai*' otvS
]\V° 1
IKiH®
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation —all prices— ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can he paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Managrer.
USE
Spooler’s
IttYALNMfK BBESSIHC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
OmECIIONS FOR 05E
gh
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
(jwureir
»WW\r
GrO TO HELL-
JUOLANI* (or Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real (rood stamps, sendto
Fred. Hagco,
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
AOStraliao flGKial Providept Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-streefc. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
fg
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £IQ 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
JJ3T Send for Price List. ISR
H. HILLIEB, 130 Snssex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
hf
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE’S PLAN.
FOOD
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
* PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD is of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MELLIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OE ALL DEALERS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Btreet, Sydney.
Mrs. Em
JLYNN
UNTON,
The Famous Authoress
writes —
Brougham House,
Mauvern,
January 16th, 1896.
“ I have used your'KOKO’now since
June last, and I have not only stopped
the falling out, which had been ex-
cessive after a severe illness, but I
have an entirely new growth of hair,
while the old hair is longer. As lam
not a young woman, but an old one,
I think this is a convincing test of
your preparation.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless. Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
ancTTts unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly The Best Preparation for the
Hair. 1 /-, 2 16 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores. &c. ,
THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO,, LTD,,
16, Bevis Marks, London, England.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are ?iow the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailiny fashion of long waist.
nc
i
r
i
y'v.
Thom
ons
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; 4ND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST.
y.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
“LA. KTOJBLBSSE”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Co-, LcU London-
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
DONNED,” LONDON.
oa
‘uo pnoT;
3SOOH ’±S NONNVO ZZZ
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
F R A. IST K JARVIS
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. COI-iRIE & CO., Queen -,reet, BRISBANE.
Victoria -JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf. Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pav us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies," the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
gh
DeliTered at any Wharf «r
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An ingenuous Melbourne divorce-peti-
tioner said she didn’t object to keeping her hus-
band, but she kicked against paying him a salary
as well. Also, that she had always been so
anxious about him that she once took out a war-
rant for his arrest. Finally, she said she “ wanted
to get him out of her mind.” S’Onah obliged her.
Frederic Villiers’ sketch at the scene at
Paardeberg camp when Cronje surrendered to
Roberts, is an instance of the unreliability of
artists’ work as compared with the truthful camera.
Villiers draws the Lion of the Veldt as a giant
towering over his mannikin captor. Now, “Bobs,”
is small, but Cronje is only sft. high, though
broad enough for two men of his inches. *
The N.S.W. Unemployed Advisory Board,
after the manner of boards, has taken offices and
appointed a paid secretary. The Commission con-
sists of W. F. Schey, at £6 6s. a week ; Mr.
Brennan, representing the workers, at £4 4s. ; and
Rev. W. I. Carr-Smith, the Anglican rector of St.
James’, King-street, at a like figure. The fourth
member is the Acting-Director of N.S.W- Govt.
Charities, who, being a hard-worked official with
the responsibility of a large department on his
shoulders, is expected to do most of the work of
the Board in his spare time for nothing. «
Nemesis
Pm sick of the sight of a soldier;
I’m shamed in my country’s pride ;
The anger of Heaven is on her.
For her hands with blood are dyed.
The blood of brave men—women —
Who are fighting for hearth and home ;
Not all the seas can e’eanse her
Till a thousand years shill come.
This stain is on her honor,
This bane is in her blood;
The unseen Death shall haunt her
Till her pride has been subdued.
The weird things that in darkness
Wait on a people’s sin
Are not an old-world fable . . .
And the troops of God come in /
They into the city enter,
They move where none may see:
Woe, woe to priest and people
For this War’s iniquity !
For priest has joined with people
In the worship of this god,
And the Christ of Human Pity
They underfoot have trod.
Even in His holy places
They chant their heathen praise,
And pour their blood-libations
As in the ancient days.
• •
The Bethlehem fields are silent,
The Christmas angels gone:
The “ Christian ” bows to Dagon . . •
And the troops of God come on t
C.
Doubt.
Faintly I hear forgotten bells
Upon the mountain side, where dwells
The secret brook that poured for me
An oraele of days to be.
Ah ! bells that trembled holy joy
Into the soft heart of the boy—
Ah ! brook that whispered of a God,
Where’er you melted through the sod.
Come to me with your ancient dower,
Dew me with the mysterious power,
Restore the melody of faith
That once to me was more than death !
In vain I call—ye cannot tell,
And I no more from brook or bell
Take to my soul delicious rest,
And find a God within my breast!
M.L.
HUBERT CHURCH.
There is a River.
There is a river—home of Moon,
And Sun, and Star, and Evening Mist;
Deep mirror of the Night and Noon,
A jasper pavement Ocean-kissed ;
The hand of Peace in silent rest
Light lieth on its moveless breast.
When Morning, like an infant smile,
Breaks on the dim face of the sky,
And walks with golden feet the aisle
Of jewell’d water, sob nor sigh
Comes with its breath ; but whirr of wing,
Bird-call, and wild-oak whispering.
And through the gasping Summer days
The river pool lies fresh and blue,
While hills are yellow in the haze
And smoke-banks hide the mountain view ;
The long days loiter sweet and cool
Along the river’s shining pool.
There winds a pathway on the shore
By glancing fern and swinging leaf,
Through incense sweet from forest store
Of musk, and moss, and deadwood sheaf ;
There Mavis pipes his joyous call,
And calm delight is over all.
Break, storms of Winter, gales of Spring !
Burn, Summer sun or Autumn fire !
For ever here the white-throats sing
Tlie sweetness of a world’s desire ;
Here Love a constant vigil keeps,
While the blue stream for ever sleeps.
Tas.
BARKIS.


L
Wi
Austral
fGHTEST
ES
N
N
A
The Australian Widens’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
f ° r ”" A ““ ran “. '■ “« ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
!i ra "“ »- »"«*«.
Board op Directors :
„ nn Hon. S; r ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE
Write for Special Prospectus.]
Annual Income exceeds £220,000
STREET, SYDNEY.
GEO. P. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulb and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
WOOLGROWER3! you
30 YEARS we have never failed to honor your confidence.
Lave created our reputa-
tion and name ; and for
We ask you to honor us
by supporting us, WHO, OF YOUR MAKING, are
The Largest All-Round Brokers in New South Wales.
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L T ?
Financiers; Wool, Hides, Tallow, Skins, and General Produce Brokers.
THE ENJOYMENT OF TOBACO&
LARGELY DEFENDS
PIPE USED. THE CELEBRATED,
BRIAR PIPES BRANDED
r
V"
OWN
MAKE
ARB RECOGNISED AS THE HOST
PERFECT, BOTH AS TO
.MATERIAL AND WORKMANSHIP
STHJ
<r
£7
o
<o
<0
AC
A-
X"
Or
o
The Demand for DIXSON’S AMERICAN TOBACCOS
so increases that the sales for Sydney Factory
During 1899 were 77 TONS GREATER than during 1898
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading* Brand in N.S. Wales.
OBTAINABLE THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE OF THE OTHER COLONIES.
CONQUEROR
THE WORKMAN’S TOBACCO—CHEW AND SMOKING.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and JUnglish brands
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
are
CHAMPION -
fgh
CONQUEROR -
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the
same, never changes.
BONANZA CIGARS -
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 10C0.
SATURDAY, JUNE 9, 1900.
Frioi 6d.
ANOTHER "SPLENDID OFFER.”
It jut occurs to The Bulletin, on going to press, what a fine thing it would be if John Bull wonld send out a contingent of London policemen to help Sydney put down
the “push” war. Think of the “moral effect upon the roughs of all nations, civil and military!.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSOBIB EES
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin' Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclbod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F
Archibald.
Special Notice
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that ive
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lilaolc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest, and adaptedfor direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Cordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
>b Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, SIS Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westratia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
SI, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lkd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be SI 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l jd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post O ffice, a special Thynne-
pttper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JUNE 9, 1900.
The New Sydney that is to be.
When New South Wales Parliament meets
a few days hence, and has sung “ God Save
the Queen ” and other irrelevancies, and
has shaken hands wildly with itself over the
Boer war, and has congratulated Premier
Lyne about his new bauble, and all the
necessary questions have been asked about
why something happened to Private Smith,
or how something didn’t happen to Private
Jones, and the usual vote of censure is
over, and George Reid has finished pointing
out for the 117th time that his deficits were
really surpluses, it is to be hoped that some-
thing sudden and strong will be done by way
of reforming the municipal government of
the N.S.W. metropolis. It will probably
need to be sudden if it is to be done at all.
The Plague appears to be passing away,
and the spasm of interest in municipal
affairs which was created by that bony
visitant seems to be passing also. If
Parliament had met two months ago
it would almost certainly have done
something that would have stood the awful
municipal system on its head in one act.
Now, the feeling that there is plenty of time
and the idea that old and mouldering insti-
tutions shouldn’t be lightly disturbed is
again beginning to assert itself. A lot of
valuable disrespect has evaporated within
the last month.
• *♦ * *
A little has been done meanwhile. A
municipal conference has sat, and has con-
sidered the question soberly and without
Billingsgate, in which respect it is quite un-
like some other municipal bodies, and has
drafted a highly-promising scheme for the
reformation of Sydney and its suburbs. The
principal features of the scheme (already
mentioned in this paper) are these :
(1) That Sydney, Alexandra, Annandale, Ashfield
Balmain, Botany, North Botany, Burwood, Canterbury,
Camperdown, Concord, Darlington, Drummoyne, Enfield,
Erskineville, Five Dock, Glebe, Hunter’s Hill, Hurstville,
Kogarah, Lane Cove, Leichhardt, Manly, Marrickville,
Marsneld, Mosman, Newtown, North Sydney, Paddington,
Petersham, Randwick, Redfern, Rockdale, Rookwood,
Ryde, St. Peters, Strathfield, Vaucluse, Waterloo,
Waverley, Willoughby and Woollahra (42 in all) shall be
absolutely amalgamated under one Council.
(?) Council to consist of 75 members. Area to be
divided according to population into 25 wards with three
aldermen apiece.
(3) Whole council to be re-elected every three vears,
every adult who has been for six months a tenant in the
m ™ l< = l P al ar ea to have one vote. No plural voting.
(4) Mayor to be elected annually in the same way as the
aldermen.
(5) Rates to be levied on land values only.
(6) Council to have power to seize upon and sell or let
property to recover arrears of rates.
(7) Railway Commissioners, Gas Co., Hydraulic Power
Lo-, telephone Department, electric lighting companies
like to pay rates for the use of the city streets.
(8) Council s accounts to be subject to annual Govern-
ment audit, and any deficiency certified to by the auditor
5’, overe . < ? nexfc year by a special deficiency rate.
(9) Council to solely control : Roads and streets, licens-
ing of vehicles and control of street traffic, water-works,
water-supply, sewerage and drainage, gas-supph r , supply
of electricity, hydraulic power, tramways, docks, ferries,
nre-stations, prevention of fires on land and in harbor,
maikets, parks and open spaces, cemeteries, free libraries,
common lodging-houses, night-shelters, public health,
destruction of garbage and house-refuse, abattoirs, public
baths and wash-houses, housing of the poor, public pawn-
offices, municipal art-galleries ; and have power to acquire
and carry on any of these services, and in addition have
power to resume slum areas, improve and widen streets,
dedicate parks, and acquire land for other public purposes,
to re-sell or lease any portion thereof ; to issue deben-
tures and negotiate loans for the purpose of defraying
expenses ; to have power to proclaim improvement
areas, and to impose betterment taxes within such
a ™ as ! t° establish labor bureaux and registration-
othces To establish a metropolitan statistical depart-
ment. To compel registration of ownership of land. To
license hotels, wine-shops, and places of public amuse-
ment. To regulate and test weights and measures. To
regulate and license noxious trades. To regulate and
license dairies and milk-supply. To license auctioneers and
a , trade licenses, and exercise all powers exercised
within the area by the Board of Health, City. Improve-
ment Board, Metropolitan Transit Commission, Tramway
Department, Trustees of Barks, such branches of the
Harbors and Rivers Department as control the foreshores
and docks, such branches of the Roads and Bridges
Department as control roads and bridges within the area,
such branches of the Public Works Department as control
the design and execution of works of water supply and
sewerage within the area, and all powers exercis-
able both within and without the area by the Water and
Sewerage Board and Fire Brigades Board.
(hl) AsH(‘t.s and liabilities of the whole 42 municipalities,
and the estimated deficiency of yearly revenue from trans-
services, to be determined by an independent
commission, and be taken over by the council; for a period
of ten years from the establishment of the council the
Government to grant it an annual subsidy equal to such
estimated deficiency.
(11) Council to have power to issue debentures for the
conversion of existing liabilities, and for the due exercise
of the various powers vested in it.
(12) All Crown lands within the area not Immediately
required for Government purposes to be vested in the
council.
* * * *
The scheme above outlined is possibly not
perfect—nothing is quite perfect—but it is,
by many thousand miles, the best that has
been offered to the misgoverned city for fifty
years past. Only three notable objections
present themselves. It is an open question,
in the first place, whether the aldermen
who are to govern Greater Sydney, when
there is such a place, shouldn’t be
fewer in number and whether they
shouldn’t be paid for their services.
If they numbered 25 instead of 75, then the
new city could give them £2OO a-year each
at a cost of only £5OOO per annum, and by
all past experience it would be money well
spent. The innumerable municipalities of
Sydney have had many years’ experience of
the gratis alderman, and the N.S.W. capital
and its environs are a huge monument to his
incapacity. As a rule the service which is
given for nothing is worth just that amount,
or perhaps a little less j in Sydney’s case it
has generally been worth a good deal less.
A city’s chance of being well-managed by
unpaid bosses is just about as great as a
bank s chance of being well-managed by un-
paid managers and directors. The gratis
alderman has failed miserably for something
like 50 years, and it would be a fair
thing now to give the other kind of
alderman a show. Further, though it is
proposed that Greater Sydney shall have
abundant borrowing powers, it doesn’t
seem to be specified that every loan
shall have a sinking fund of 1 per cent,
per annum attached—and it should be
so specified. Also, it is lamentable to
find that one of the first ideas of the reform
party is to bail up the Government for a
subsidy. Almost every good and bad and
indifferent public or semi-public movement
in Australia is disfigured by the pauper ten-
dency to cry to the Government for cash
assistance in the first place, and in the
second place, and in the third place, and in
every other possible place. Yet with all
drawbacks the scheme of the municipal con-
ference is an admirable one.
* • • *
And already there is a bitter howl against
it in the marble halls of Proputty, and un-
less the people wake to an intelligent in-
terest in the matter the dead-weight of Pro-
putty may yet flatten it out. The present
N.S.W. municipal franchise is mainly a pro-
perty franchise. The landlord has elected
the various councils and filled the seats
therein ever since municipal government
began. He is responsible for the serpentine
alleys which in Sydney are called main streets,
for the dirt, for the debt, for the deficits,
for the absence of enterprise, for the shore-
less wastes of Billingsgate which prevent
municipal business being done, and for
the shiftlessness and purposelessness of
things in general. He has had 50 years
trial and been found wanting—also dirty,
bankrupt, incapable, and coarse in his
language, likewise paralysed in the nose so
that he fails to smell his own property. And
he demands a continuance of the present
system on the ground that the proposal to
give every adult dweller in the city a vote is
a public wrong ; no one should have a vote
except the person “ responsible for the pay-
ment of the rates.” This good old lamenta-
tion was bound to crop up in any case—yet
the landlord doesn’t pay the rates, except
those on the house he occupies himself, and
then he only pays in his capacity as a tenant.
In all other cases he adds rates on to the
rent and passes them on to the tenant,
and the tenant passes part of them on to
the boarder or sub-tenant, if he has one.
In normal times rents are fixed at a figure
which will give the landlord a fair return for
his money, after paying rates, taxes, repairs,
and insurance, and making allowance for
depreciation. Sometimes he gets more than
a fair return ; sometimes less ; hut he gets a
fair return on the average. The landlord,
as a benevolent person vyho, with no hope or
prospect of return, pays the rates on whole
streets of houses out of his own pocket and
at his own loss, is an exhausted fiction. He
pays these rates out of his rents, and he
makes the rents high enough to cover the
rates and still leave him the current rate of
interest on his money. Therefore, the
tenant and sub-tenant and lodger really pay,
and they should have votes accordingly.
Only ratepayers should have votes, and they
are the ratepayers. The landlord is a rate-
payer for the house he personally inhabits,
and for it only. As regards the others, he
is an agent—and often a very dishonest one
—for the collection of municipal taxes.
* • * *
Moreover, the tenants have other claims.
They have to live in the landlord’s city
whether they like it or not; a man can’t
choose his own city, but must go where a
chance of victuals and a roof presents itself.
They have to look at his city, and to smell it
just as much as he does. They have to catch
diseases in it—the diseases the dirty land-
lord has left lying about. They stand the
mental shock of its uncomeliness ; they get
run over in its narrow streets because the
landlord didn’t make them wider ; they are
kept awake by its dogs, and they die of its
drains. As the people who indirectly pay
the rates, they pay the interest on the city
debts which the landlord has accumulated.
As subscribers to the general revenue, they
pay interest on the previous Sydney city
debt of £700,000 or so, which the landlords
accumulated many years ago, and which they
induced the central Government to take
over. And under all these conditions, the
absolute right of every habitual dweller in
the metropolis to have a vote at municipal
elections, whether he is a landlord, a tenant
householder, a person who rents an office, a
lodger in a private house, boarding-house,
hotel or coffee-palace, is indubitable. They
are all rate-payers even though they may
not hump the taxes personally round to the
Town Hall. For that matter even the land-
lord seldom does that, but leaves it to his
office-boy, and on the Fatman’s logic the
office-boy is the only properly-qualified voter
in the crowd.
9 • * *
All this is by way of leading up to the
question which really stands in the way of
radical reform. The Municipal Conference
has drawn up what, despite some small de-
fects, is really an admirable municipal cons-
titution. The Bulletin proposes that as
soon as Parliament meets it should be put
in the form of a Bill and submitted for
acceptance or rejection to the vote of the real
ratepayers of the 42 municipalities concerned
—that is, to the vote of all the adult resi-
dents of, say, six months’ standing, giving
them one vote each. The proposal most
commonly advanced is that it should be re-
ferred to the municipal councils, representing
only the handful of landlords who have
usurped the franchise to the exclusion of the
great mass of real ratepayers. And in re-
ferring it to the Councils to decide whether
a complete reversal of the existing system is
needed it is really proposed to ask these
bodies a series of questions about themselves
and their constituents, somewhat after this
fashion :
(1) Are you a complete failure ?
(2) Do you admit that it will be better for Sydney and
all connected therewith if you are abolished, and 41 out
of your 42 mayors and town-clerks get the “ sack ?”
(3) Do you consider that you and your handful of con-
stituents have usurped the franchise which really belongs
to the people at large ?
(4) Are you of opinion, as a body of landlords, repre-
senting landlords, that it is necessary in the public
interest that the control of building and sanitary laws
should be placed in the hands of the people at large as the
only means of making your properties reasonably clean
and not so unsightly from age, neglect and want of taste
as to be a curse and an eyesore ?
(5) Is it your conviction that the shortest way out of
the financial muddles you have created is to fire you
ignominiously into the back yard, and let a perfectly new
institution take the matter in hand ?
(6) Do you, in short, recognise your utter hopelessness
collectively and individually and the hopelessness of the
system which created you ?
» * » •
The opinion of this paper is that if muni-
cipal reform is to wait until all the 42
councils realise their own incapacity it will
wait a very long time. Also, there is a
grievous want of logic in the idea that,
because a few landlords have for many years
deprived the bulk of the ratepayers of the
franchise to which they are fairly entitled,
therefore the bulk of the ratepayers should
continue to be disfranchised unless the rob-
ber minority consents to surrender its privi-
leges. There may be circumstances in which
it is necessary to have the consent of the
robber minority, but this isn’t one of them.
Even assuming that the 42 councils will con-
sent in the end (they probably will in the end,
but the end is always the last thing arrived
at) the waiting is a foolish waste of
time. Dirt accumulates fast, and so do debt
and prejudice ; and the plague isn’t dead
yet; and the Lyne Government, to which
Sydney pins its hopes (having found by sad
experience that a Reid Government does
little save glare affably through its eye-glass)
isn’t immortal. A municipal referendum
offers a chance of getting a new municipal
constitution at work and a Greater Sydney
established this year, and a country which
only took one week to rush into a foolish
war can’t be blamed for too-great velocity
if it gets a wise reform started in seven
months.
The Public Interest and “Contempt
of Court.”
After all, the Public Interest comes first. Jus-
tice and the administration of justice are merely
means to the end of the Public Interest. And
that is itself a legal maxim which says that the
supreme law is the well-being of the people : a
‘"Supreme Court” yields to the supreme law.
All truisms ; but practice often makes light of
theoretical truisms. And in the contempt-of-court
rule recently laid down by Chief-Justice Darley in
the (N.S. W.) case of Kugelmann v. Norton, it ap-
pears to The Bulletin that “ the dignity of the
Court ” was upheld at the expense of the Public
Interest which the Court is established to serve.
• * • •
Kugelmann, “medicalherbalist,” sued Norton,
a Sydney journalist, for libel. After an excep-
tionally long trial, the jury disagreed. The Press
was prohibited by the contempt-of-court rule from
commenting on the case during its trial; though
the case held many points upon which Press com-
ment, in the Public Interest, was desirable—even
necessary. When the jury disagreed, Norton
considered the case closed, and published certain
comments. Kugelmann, having still the right
to ask for re-trial, protested; and N.S. Wales
Supreme Court decided that Norton was guilty
of “ contempt. It does not appear that
Kugelmann intends to press for re-trial. His
counsel, indeed, suggested that he has no in-
tention of asking for re-trial “ this year.” So
that for eight months or more the public Preas is
prevented from commenting in the Public Interest
upon a notorious suit which involves matters of
groat importance to the public. The result
is that the right of public comment on the
administration of justice in this case be-
comes practically worthless. By the time
Kugelmann lias decided whether or not he
will have a re-trial, the case and the evidence will
be forgotten ; the publio attention will lie directed
to current matters; and comment will lose its
public value. It is easy to see that this prevention
of public comment until publio curiosity has died
out may be the main object of a party to any such
case. If he be dependent on the public for a
living, and know that he has been shown guilty of
equivocal practices, it is of the highest moment to
him that the l’ress be hindered from pointing out
his fault until the matter is ancient history. Thus
advantage may be taken of Supreme Court rules
to shelter guilt from public reprobation ; and
crime may be shielded by the very institution of
justice, established, in the Public Interest to put
an end to crime.
• * *
It is difficult to legislate for “ of
court,” and on some grounds it is well that the
Judge’s jurisdiction in this matter should be sum-
mary, even arbitrary. But this arbitrary juris-
diction can be permitted only as long as a Judge
is able to show that it subserves the Public In-
terest. In The Bulletin’s opinion, the rule laid
down in the Kugelmann-Norton case was notin
the Public Interest. Probably, while the jury-
system prevails, it is better that Press
comment should not be permitted before
or during a trial; though in an ideal community
it would make no difference to an honest and in-
telligent jury. But the disagreement of a jury is
essentially that jury’s verdict just as much as a
verdict of Guilty or Not Guilty. The old Scottish
form of Not Proven praotically admits that dis-
agreement is a verdict. And the disagreement
should be taken as ending a trial for the purposes
of Press comment. It should not be permitted to
either side to prevent comment until comment is
fruitless. As between the Press and the Court,
the Court has taken its due precedence; but it
should not be permitted to exclude the Press from
entry to the case. If Justice have been delivered
of a still-bom child, it is nevertheless a birth, and
news for public advertisement and comment.
And if the suitors who begot the child are
fearful of the influence of comment upon the
mother, let them wait till the comment is for-
gotten. The public has given way to private in-
terests before and during the trial ; let private
interests give way to public after the trial—even
if the verdict is a verdict of Not Proven. It is
intolerable that, in a case like the Kugelmann-
Norton case, comment should be silenced for
half-a-year and more—until the case for comment
is lost to memory. And it is not in the Public
Interest.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Swollen Militarism in Australia.
The limitless “ glory ” lavished on an Australian
manifestation of “military spirit” lias quickly
brought an example of what is to be expected by
a nation which causelessly nourishes “military
spirit.” On Thursday, May 31, a “small army”
of N.S.W. artillerymen and Third Contingent
privates—as the reporter describes them—a “com-
pact band,” “ marching in excellent order,” came
through Sydney streets to avenge a quarrel
between an artilleryman and a larrikin, in which
the artilleryman got the worst of it. This new
contingent started from the military headquarters
at Victoria Barracks, just as previous contingents
had started ; but this time the force was directed
against the men’s own countrymen. They marched
out determined to break the peace by assailing the
members of the “ push” to which the victorious lar-
rikin belonged. And theymarched in uniform, with
side-arms ; though the weapons which they used
were luckily only belts, sticks, and whips. The
“push” declined encounter; but the city police,
in face of such an organised body of men, was
for a long time powerless. A riot followed, in
which several policemen and civilians un-
connected with the “push” were more or
less severely injured. For two hours and
more the central city was in tumult. At last
the “soldiers” were persuaded to return to bar-
racks. One of them was arrested, and—fined
£5 ! —as a ringleader in an organised riot ! The
military authorities apparently did nothin/ 1 ; with
the result that on Saturday, June 2, two new
forces of some “40 artillerymen, under a ser-
geant,” and “40 members of the Third Con-
tingent, similarly officered,” with other smaller
parties, marched again into the city and re-
peated the riot. This time the results were less
serious; but “bottles and stones flew,” a police-
man was injured, and “a band of artillerymen
and their allies ” chased a civilian into an hotel
and thrashed him with a belt. These edifying
performances are the first fruits of the swollen
“ military spirit ” in Australia, which needs small
encouragement to form an idle caste defying the
law, as elsewhere. Let the workers of Australia
take warning.


Victoria’s Lunacy Department.
A simple little remark by the Vic. Govt. Me lical
officeduring the recent trial of a woman ior the
rnurd jr of her child, whilst temporarily insane
some three years ago, was more severe upon the
methods of Vic. Governments than anything that
has been said since the days of the boom. The
witness’s observation was to the effect that, during
these thi'ee years, the woman had been kept, not
in a hospital for the insane, but in Pentridge and
Melbourne gaols. And the reason given for thus
gaoling an unconvicted and untried person itself
constitutes a most scathing indictment upon the
State —viz., that she would have a better chance
to recover in gaol than in the asylum. This was
possibly a good reason from the woman’s point of
view, but—what of the unfortunates in the asy-
lums? A glance at the statistical returns for the
best few years forces the conclusion that Victoria
has discovered a wondrously successful method of
manufacturing idiots wholesale. These returns
show that not only is insanity increasing to such
an extent that the province has now nearly the
largest percentage of cranks in the world, but,
more significant and mo e shameful, the per-
centage of recoveries is steadily decreasing—from
54 per cent, in ’B2 to 28 per cent, in ’97, and the
percentage of deaths is just as steadily increasing,
—from 6.92 in ’B9 to 8.84 in ’9B. Moreover it is
not that the increase is universal or even general
in Australasia ; N. S. Wales and Queensland have
a steady recovery-percentage and a decreasing
death-percentage, while other provinces show up
better still. The province of booms is now begin-
ning to reap as it has sown. For years it has
utilised its gaols as poor-houses and by its
solitary system turned many of its crimiry'ls into
lunatics, and apparently it is now making a study
of the simplest way of getting rid of these
by an asylum system which promptly hustles the
permanent lunatic into a grave. The charge
made by medical authorities against the Vic.
Lunacy Department is that it has practically given
up attempting to cure demented patients, and has
got back to the old, crude idea of just shutting up
the insane in a large building till they die or re-
cover of their own volition. As a casual piece of
evidence in support of this accusation Victoria, a
few weeks ago, learnt by accident that a perfectly
sane man had been locked up in one of its
asylums on the mere unchecked certificate
of two doctors. He only got out by acci-
dent, for the place was one for the deten-
tion, not the cure, of lunatics, and there was
apparently no expert on hand who managed
to recognise this sane man when he saw him. The
place was seemingly run on the broad principle
that the fact of a man being in sufficiently proved
that he ought to be in. Many ugly things wore
said then about the Victorian lunacy system, but
after all it is never likely to have any harder re-
mark made about it than that quoted above.
When a friendly Judge or magistrate sends a
lunatic to gaol in order that she may have a better
chance of reoovery than in the asylum, ho has
made about as violent a comment as the British
language is oapable of.
*
Law in a Hurry. Jaded Judges and
Bounding Jurymen.
The spurts of the law frequently produce as much
wrong as the law’s delays. The late-sitting J t;dge
and t ie fagged counsel and jury are responublo
for as many judicial murders as the reward-hunt-
ing detective, and Australia can cite numerous
cases of the kind in her own experience. But the
judge is not always at fault. We have sometimes
the case of the late-sitting juror and the fagged
judge and counsel. A ease in point, fortunately
not attended with the most serious consequences,
occurred at last Melb. criminal sittings during the
second trial of Mrs. Downey for “constructive”
murder. The court had been bard at work from
10 to 5 upon a most difficult case involving the
consideration of troublesome points of law—about
the reception of evidence and the hearing of
technical medical evidence and the stage
had been reached at which Purves, Q.C.,
had to begin his defence. The Judge was pro-
ceeding to adjourn the Court and mentioned the
arrangements for locking up the Jury for the
night, when one juryman got up and calling
attention to the fact that he had been down from
the country a week, asked the Court to finish the
case that night. Purves, of course, could only
consent with a sickly smile, for it wouldn’t have
done for him to endanger even hypothetic-
ally the chances of his client by holding out for an
adjournment. And when both counsel and jurymen
were enthusiastic for a night of it, the Judge was
also helpless, however jaded he might personally
feel. As a consjquence, a good half-day’s work,
consisting of addresses of counsel for defence and
prosecution, the reading of a long statement of the
accused and the Judge’s summing up, was crowded
into a little over an hour. The jurymen retired,
disagreed, and were discharged at 11.15 p.m., half
an-hour or more before they should have been
discharged according to law. The juror
from the country no doubt has his rights,
but the interests of his business are of
merely tinpot consequence besides those of a
person whose chance of life depends upon the
vigor and freshness of her advocate, the clearness
of the Judge in his summing up, and the wakeful-
ness of the other jurymen. In such cases as the
above, it might well happen that the desire to
catch the last suburban train would be the real
cause that would send a new victim to the gallows.
As it is, the accused woman, who had already
gone through the fearful ordeal of a trial which
had resulted in the judgment of death being pro-
nounced upon her, and who had to go to
great expense and trouble to get it quashed in
the Full Court, has endured a second ordeal
without the release from mental torture which
she might very conceivably have had if
counsel, Judge and juryman were not tired
and sleepy with overwork. Of course, it
might have been otherwise, but the probabilities
are that the hurry of that juryman was in some
measure responsible for the necessity that has
now arisen of sending a woman the third time
before a jury on the same charge, and that a capi-
tal one. Purves admitted, when starting his
address to the jury, that he hadn’t had time to
look at the notes that had been taken for him
during the trial, and would have to depend
on his memory. The case is a good one to
illustrate the need there is for a stringent applica-
tion of the Early Closing Act, not only to Judges,
but even to jurymen whose private interests are
more important than accused persons’ lives.
Brother Alick and Brother John.
Brother Alice Forrest (brother to Brother
John Forrest) is understood to be principal
owner of Perth (W.A.) Morning Herald, and
the language of Brother Alice’s paper about
Brother John, since the latter ceased to be an
incurable parochialist, is dreadful in the ears of
any right-minded person. Brother Alice’s paper
calls Brother John a .Judas, a “pitiable spec-
tacle,” a weak kind of man, and such-like, and
otherwise presents a painful example of dissension
in families. Still, Brother Alice’s paper has
been cabin" Brother John bad names in a slow,
purposeless sort of way for a long time, and hasn’t
broken anything. Possibly it is only meant to
show the noble independence of both brothers.
The Perth Morning Herald is still crying out
for that amended draft Federal Constitution which
was pitched up by a Westralian Parliamentary
committee some time ago, and which died young
in the Parliamentary waite-paper basket. “We
in Westrali i,” moans the Herald,' “know
what we want, and that, apparently, we can-
not get owing to the culpable weakness of
our delegates, past and present, and toe extraor-
dinary volte-face of a Premier who, to a 1 appear-
ance, is bent on wrecking the record and reputa-
tion of an honored lifetime.” “What we want,”
in this case, is, of course, the proposed amended
Bill which the We pnlian people never accepted,
which the Westralian Assembly merely accepted
so far as to agree that both Bills should go to the
people together, and which the Westralian Coun-
cil indignantly kicked out on a very cursory in-
spection. Brother Ala r’s paper always speaks
of this kicked and bruised and condemned measure
as something that is dear to the hearts of the
people, and of Westralia as a naked infant sitting
up in a tub of water that won’t be happy till it
gets it. And the “ extraordinary volte-face ”of
Brother John lies in the fact that he offers to let
the peo 1: say whether they want the existing
Federal Bill or not, and if, as Brother
Alice’s paper alleges, they don’t, and the only
Bill they want is their own amended one, they
will presumably at the polls that
they are not taking any of the present Bill, and
thereby end the whole matter. The wild cries of
Brother Alice’s paper (1) that the people are
dead against the Convention Bill, and (d) that
Brother John is a traitor for desiring to give
them a chance of proving that they are against it,
are two very interesting shrieks. If the Brother
Alice party had a shred of confidence in its own
assertions that Westralia is against the Conven-
tion Bill, it .might rather be expected to be glad
that Brother John is trying to give it a chance of
coming out into the open at the Referendum and
winning a great victory instead of skulking behind
a boulder and shooting adjectives. In one way and
another the row, or professed row, between
Brother Alice and Brother John is rathor
amusing.
4
Hogs in Council.
During the recent plague-spasm, hard-up citizens
were stopped from raking over the garbage in
Sydney streets. Now the aldermen rake it over
themselves in Sydney Council. But while the
deadbeats wore hogs by necessity, some of the
aldermen seem to be hogs from choice. From its
Civic Council Sydney expects incompetency. In
the management of civic affairs Sydney has grown
accustomed to corruption. Emboldened by im-
punity for blunders and worse, the Council does
not even take pains to decently cloak its disgraces.
A bear-garden is too complimentary a simile for
the Council meeting reported in Sydney Tele-
graph of May 31st. It was a blaokgarden. Here
are specimens of the language used in open
Council—
“ This man ought to be sandbagged ! ”
“ You are like an empty tin-can.”
“ That blasted ! ” (another alderman).
These choice expressions are given as uttered by
Aid. Norton in the printed report—
Aid. Norton remarked that Alderman Dymock was fast
justifying his appellation of “donkey Dymock.”
There were loud cries of “ Order, order,” and Alderman
Norton withdrew liis remauk.
Aid. Dymock made a reference to Alderman Norton’s
“ bombastic talk.” lie might as well, he said, call him
“ dirty, smutty Norton,” but he would not lower himself
to do it.
Worthy, dignified, representatives these of the
chief municipal body of the mother city of Aus-
tralia ! Presently there was a dispute as to the
Mayor’s ruling, and the Mayor left the chair.
Then the reporter—
Aids Small and Norton became involved in conflict.
The expression, “ J will give you a punch in the jaw,”
flhat d sweetly out from the din.
Later on, the position of City Organist Wikgand
—a man who, by testimonials and performance,
ranks among the first organists in the world—was
discussed. The discussion was chiefly conducted
in the spirit of the dunghill-rooting cock fabled to
have found a diamond, and to have spurned it with
the remark that all the diamonds in the world
were not worth one grain of corn—■
Aid. Norton confessed that he could not understand
the intricate symphonies and fantasies which M. Wieoand
played. They irritated him. He had seen “ a lot of those
nice, superfine, nasty people pretending to understand
this wonderful fantastic music, but they did not under-
stand it.”
Aid. Penny, butcher and Justice of the P@ace, ex-
pressed his opinion :
He contended that there was plenty of local talent. He
confided to the meeting that M. iViegand's high-clans
music “ nearly mal t me vomit,'' There were plenty of
local musicians to sat'sfy the musical taste o( the people,
without bringing foreigners into the country. He hoped
that the next organist would he an Australian—either
English, Irish, or Scotch—-not a foreigner.
The irony of it! The local butcher and J.P.
sitting in judgment on the merits of a musician
with a Euro >ean reputation, and telling how a
butcher’s gorge rises at “ M. Wiegand’s high-class
music.” And these are some of Sydney’s civic
governors—Sydney, “queen-city of the South!”
And the reporter gives only their “printable”
language, with the assurance that some of it was
unprintable ! The Bulletin is quite aware that
there are worse things than hog-language and a
hogmeat-tastc in music. Probably the city funds
are safer in the hands of adjectival Aid. Nor-
ton and adjectival Aid. Dymock and nearly-
vomited Aid. Penny than they would be in
the hands of Sydney Telegraph’s desired nominee-
commissioners. It is the publicity of the elected
City Council—the very publicity which enables
us to see how disgracefully its business is con-
ducted—which is the safeguard. Nominee com-
missioners may conduct their business with more
deference to courteous Chesterfield, but less to
arithmetical Cocker. And they will conduct
their business in private. No one knows to what
scheme they may commit the unwitting rate-
payers. And even if interregnum-commissioners
are paragons of honesty and wisdom, they will just
about learn their business by the time the Greater
Sydney Council is created —or their existence will
be made a reason for postponing the Greater'
Sydney Council.' No ; we do not want three sets
of policy clashing in the city. Is the Sydney
Council so bad that we cannot wait for Greater
Sydney ? Then do not wait; but hasten Greater
Sydney at once.
The per cent. Standard.
The inclination to spend loan money in building
small, unprofitable branch railways, which cursed
A ictoria in the Gillies days, is again asserting it-
self. The loudest discussion just at present is over
a proposed fragment to connect the Geelong-Port
Fairy railway with Beech Forest. There are
already a number of noil-paying little cul-de-sacs
branching out from this railway. The Wensley-
dale, Forrest, Timboon, Mortlake and Beaac
branches—all the live brandies from this luckless
line—fail to quite cover working expenses. As
for the interest on cost of construction, it is the
extra-deadest kind of a dead loss. And now the
Government is being urged to build another cul-
de-sac in the same locality, from Colac to Beech
Forest, and not being a very strong Government
its two bosses—the kindly man who is gone in the
feet and the shrill man who never quite arrived
in the head show signs of giving way.
The line would undoubtedly do good to
that part of the country, and it might be
made to pay expenses. On the other hand
there is no hope that it can be made to pay any
interest for a long, long time to come, and the 3
or 3| per cent, on borrowed money will be a dead
loss. The two-headed Government doesn’t want
to retard the progress of the country. Neither
does it want to add to the railway deficit. So the
Government hesitates and staggers from side to
side in its mind. There are many railways yet to
be built, even in much-railwayed Victoria, which
would do a lot of good to the country, but there
isn’t one of them that can be relied upon to pay
3} per cent, on borrowed money, so to build any
of them means making more difficulties for the
Treasury, and not to build them means retarding
the progress of the country. The visible remedy
is: Where a line will do material good to the
country, and is really wanted, but can’t bring
in enough direct income to pay interest on
borrowed money, to build it out of revenue.
T lare are scores of districts where lines could be
pro.itably built out of revenue to open up the
country, and increase its produce and its popula-
lation, and to find work for the unemployed while
the building operations were going on, and more
work for them afterwards on the land thus opened
up, and to make things boom generally through
the increased circulation of money—but as tiicse
lines won’t pay per cent., and •money can’t be
borrowed for less, and no-one dreams of doing
anything without borrowing, the boom never
corns; off. It is the borrowing principle that is
retar ling the progress of Australia. Everything
has to be measured by the 3| per cent, standard.
If a great idea can’t be dragged out by any pro-
cess of dislocation to the 3| per cent, length then
it ceases to be a groat idea.
“ The Crown’s ” Perjured Witnesses.
That charming Penny Novelette story of the
bad man and the will and the fortune, also the dead
girl who was to be personated, as told to the Mel-
bourne police the other day, fell to pieces sadly
when investigated in the cold light of the criminal
court. The girl, the chief Crown witness, ad-
mitted that she had gone with accused into
Carlton Gardens at night, and had allowed him —
a perfect stranger —to put a mark on her bare arm
and also on her leg ; also that she had walked out
of the courting ground with his arms round her
neck, passing a policeman just outside the gate.
It didn’t strike her that it would be as well to
mention the alleged assault to that gentleman, nor
did she oven toll her elder sister when she got
home. She first mentioned the matter to a cer-
tain Jimmy presumably her best boy. Judge
1 tool) told the jurymen that they had either to be-
lieve the girl’s story or the man’s. And the twelve,
without much consideration, acquitted the man.
Truly, the damsel with the indecent story,
and, in fact, the Crown witness generally,
is getting into bad repute in Victoria.
Only a few days previous to this, in a
similar case at Geelong, the Crown Prosecutor
had expressed a strong disinclination to goon with
the charge, as prosecutrix had proved to be a
deliberate and daring liar. Of course, the jury
promptly acquitted. But the C.L. authorities
still adhere to their old rule of never prosecuting
their own perjured witness—even when her case is
so bad that they have to publicly admit that she is
a hopeless liar, who is trying to swear away the
life or liberty of an innocent man. Therefore, the
Crown’s perjured witness still flourishes, and the
Crown is responsible. In fact, the Crown, by
practically annulling the perjury laws in her
favor, is her accomplice—the worst kind of accom-
plice.
♦
“ We are Broke.”
Sydney Telegraph, in a recent leading article,
thus implored Australia not to think of becoming
a self-supporting community, or of paying its own
way, or keeping decently solvent and self-reliant:
The Times is perfectly right when it says that the flow
of .British capital would he far less free if this right
(of appeal to the Privy Council) ceased to exist; ana if
that how were arrested, Australian progress would, to a
far greater extent than we may recognise, be arrested with
it. Mr. Lyne may plan the resumption and reconstruction
of the wharves of Sydney, and city railways, a North
Shore bridge, and the Federal Parliament may design a
handsome capital at Bombala, or elsewhere, but without
the co-operation of the British capitalist such enterprises
would become veritable chimeras.
Thgn what is the good of all the brag about the
wealth and prosperity of Australia if it can’t even
raise half-a-million of its own to build a bridge
with, and must either borrow the money from
England or do without the bridge ? What also is
the good of boasting that these provinces have the
biggest revenue per head in the world, that they
have 23 £ millions of gold in their banks, that there
is a vast amount of capital here “seeking an out-
let,” that Australia is solvent and progressive, and
that its mines turn out £14,000,000 worth of gold
annually, and all the rest ? Also what on earth is
tlm use of telling England that this country can be
relied upon to pay annually £8,000,000 or so of
interest on its present public debt, and much more
on its future public debt, if it is alleged at the
same time that it is so stone-broke that it can’t
find £500,000 of its own for the North Shore
bridge ? And what kind of a lie is the yarn about
the enterprise and energy and self-dependence of
this great rich country, when a prominent paper
states in its biggest type that it is impossible to
build a few wharves unless England lends us the
cash ? The daily press of Australia talks much in
a general way about our wealth, progress, energy,
enterprise, resources, and so on, but when it comes
down to a concrete proposal to build even a bridge
out of our own resources its cry of “stinking fish ”
rends the balmy air, and it moans that we are
broke, helpless, penniless, useless, that we haven’t
the price of a bridge about us, and that we can’t
do even what Dutchmen and Swedes are capable
of—rely on our own pluck and our own resources.
It is a pitiable spectacle, and unless this country
learns to do something for itself and not rely on
the British capitalist for' quite everything, the
inevitable end is insolvency.
Our Local Savage.
The investigation of the recent Kyneton (Vic.)
tragedy revealed the existence of a family of
actual white savages within a few 'miles of Mel-
bourne. The victim, _ sister of the accused
Donald Kennedy, was ferociously assaulted on
Feb. 26, but managed to drag herself to an out-
house at her parents’ home, and there remained
for nearly a fortnight in unheeded agony (although
father, mother, brother and some nephews were in
and about the house all the time), except that the
mother occasionally gave her a little water or sour
milk. A married sister and an aunt who happened
along observed that the sufferer was in a fearful
state from her injuries, but presumably they
knew nought of doctors and hospitals, and it was
not till 12 days after the outrage that the unfortu-
nate was lumbered to the hospital in a dray,
dying two hours after admission. There was little
evidence as to the author of the crime, and though
there were many witnesses, of sorts, they were
either afflicted with painful lapses of memory or
were wilfully screening somebody. The Crown,
acting on the latter supposition, 'charged the
brother Donald with the offence; but the jury
(doubtless remembering “ what happened to
Jones,” the alleged Broadford murderer) acquitted
the prisoner—adding to their verdict, however, an
expression of horror at the existence of such
brutal savagery in one of the longest-settled
districts of the province. The case raises the
curtain upon a hideous picture. One of tire
witnesses—a cousin of the dead woman —is serving
a long term for an assault on his cousin, a child of
six; another relative stands at present charged
with a similar offence; a third is insane ; and the
whole connection appears to be hovering between
lunatic and beast. And, once again ! —we keep
sending missionaries to China.
4.
Hon. J. V. Chataway is Queensland Minister
for Agriculture. The Mackay Mercury is owned
by said J.V.C., and he acts as Brisbane corres-
pondent to own rag. This appears in his letter
of May 12: —
Mr. Leonard Board, Land Commissioner for Mary-
borough district, has been appointed inspector of
Forestry, and there can be rio doubt about his being the
fittest man. The Public Service Board, however, seems
to have had a different opinion. The Board went, not for
the other Board, but for the Curator of the Botanical
Gardens—a very strange choice considering recent
events, but it seems that Mr. M'Maiion claims a
special knowledge of forestry, and writes on the
subject. Even were this knowledge of practical
value, there was surely enough in recent events to con-
demn the proposed appointment, yet so thoroughly did
the applicant rely upon the recommendation of the P. 5.8.,
that lie considered himself as good as appointed. For-
tunately a strong Minister can dare, in the interests of
the public, to neglect such a recommendation. The
matter is sure to be thrashed out in Parliament by Mr.
M'Mauon’h friends —that is to say, by those who will make
him cry “Save me from my friends” before it is over.
The “strong Minister” who “dared” was J. Y.
Chataway himself, and the board he defied was
especially appointed by Parliament to make non-
political appointments. The threat at the tail-end
of the extract is worthy of its author ; and if the
9- Opposition do not batter the life out of the
incompetent and arrogant Philp clique with
Minister Cilataway’s own brick—well, the Q.
Parliament must be hopelessly depraved.
+
In Sydney Banco Court last week a serious charge
involving hundreds of pounds, made by a client
against a solicitor, came before Chief-Justice
Darley and Justices Stephen and Owen. The
charge was made on affidavit and the client gave
testimony purporting to support. The Court
determined the case in the solicitor’s favor, but the
Chief-Justice, adverting to the solicitor’s action in
one phase of the case, “ hoped it would not occur
again.” Mr. Pilcher, Q.C., who appeared for
the solicitor, hereupon remarked that his client
would prefer that his name should not be men-
tioned in the newspapers, and reminded their
Honors that in the case of another solicitor a few
days before the name had been suppressed. The
Chief-Justice: “The name need not be mentioned.”
This was an open court. Parties to other actions
tried before and after were not protected from
publicity. Whether the decision of the Court was
favorable or unfavorable the names of the litigants
went to the Press. Can it be said the law is alike
for all, the courts are alike open for all, while one
class is shielded with privacy and all others are
exposed to public gaze ? The judicial “need not ”
is of course interpreted by the Press as “must
not,” and so a solicitor whose character has been
under fire may straddle about as if he alone were
a white man.
O-
R. B. Haldane, Q.C., hangs a locally-reprinted
eulogy of Privy Council judgments on this story :
It is told of a traveller who had penetrated into a re-
mote part of India that he found the natives offering up
a sacrifice to a far-off but all-powerful god, who had just
restored to the tribe the land which the Government or
the day had taken from it. He asked the name of the
god. The reply was, “We know nothing of him but that
he is a good god, and that his name is the Judicial Com-
mittee of the Privy Council.”
The name of the traveller, and the date, and the
place, are not given ; so that this particular myth
depends on Haldane’s say-so. The Bulletin
assures Mr. Haldane that he has totally misun-
derstood the myth, which really runs as follows
for purposes of argument :
It is related by G. H. Wilkinson, F.R.G.S., on page 128
of his book, “ Wanderings in the Himalayas ” (Harper’s,
1894), that arriving at Dhajawal, the chief town of the
Dheeli tribe, he found the natives offering up a sacrifice
to propitiate the wrath of a far-off demon, who had just
taken half the tribe’s land to give to the English. He
asked the name of the demon. The reply was, “We
know nothing of him but that he is the most malicious
demon existing, and that his name is the Judicial Com-
mittee of the Privy Council.
This lie, it will be observed, has names and dates
complete ; and if a man must lie he should lie
with circumstance.
♦
One of the weirdest sights on Mafeking-drunk
night in Melbourne was a Westralian out-back
pastoralist and large slave-owner rending the air
with “Britons never, never,” &c., and holding
forth to all and sundry about the sin of the Boer
in “enslaving” the African nigger. What a
beautiful hypocrisy, in this country at least, is the
cry about how the blighted nigger is free when-
ever he touches British ground, while one-third of
Australia is a Slave State, and its slavery exists
under a law which Britain had the right to veto
but didn’t. The Boer and the Westralian are
much alike in some respects. They both call
their slavery “apprenticeship.” They both flog
their nigger more or less, though the Westralian
lies about it and says that he doesn’t. The Wes-
tralian, however, gets ahead in the matter of
hypocrisy, for he (or some of him) claims that he
makes the nigger work for him gratis out of his
pure and holy yearning to save the nigger’s
soul. Also, he professes that the nigger is a
voluntary slave. In Westralia you mustn’t own a
nigger without getting a policeman or J.P. or
other official to witness a document by which it is-
professed that the aboriginal binds himself to
drudge for you for a term of years out of sheer
desire for work. If you are a squatting J.P. and
your only convenient neighbor is also a squatting
J. P., you can t, without breaking the law, forcibly
retain any nigger you have captured, and judi-
ciously boot him into habits of industry, until your
obliging neighbor has signed the document which
sets forth that your nigger came to you quite
voluntarily. And your neighbor can’t legally
keep his fresh-caught nigger in slavery until you
have attested his document in like manner—so
you swap signatures, and all is well. As for the
nigger himself, if he tries to holler out that he is
no party to the agreement, it merely shows that


AGENTS-
THE TRANSVAAL WAR !
The PREMO CAMERA
18 IN THE FRONT RANK
OF HAND CAMERAS,
AND CANT BE BEATEN.
Price, 255. to £2O.
375 Ceorge-st.,
SYDNEY.
BIKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY
260 Collins-st., Melbourne. 81 Quken-st., Brisbane.
LTD.
65 Rundle-st. , Adelaide.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
The Oldest and Largest International Life Company.
Has 40,000 more Policy-holders than the next Largest Company, and more Insurance in force
Chief Office-
-76 Pitt-street, Sydney
THOMAS P. PURVES,
General Manager, Dept, of Australasia.
The Clyde Engineering Cog. [,td.
MANUFACTURERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF HORIZONTAL AND TRACTION
For AVI||T)ING, ITAULAGE, &c., from 2-h.p. to 1000-h.p.
k
Jtliwli
; • -r
a*/:
S 3
;_^c
ifi&K
9 ; : 'Sj2
&*•#!.•*&? nsf<*
*««
feiC-
•••;,
■ BN
Hi*
he is an unwise nigger, but (in the further-out
regions, at all events) the result is just the same.
And when a Bulletin man, on the Mafeking-
drunk night, saw that big and prosperous Wes-
tralian slave-owner hollering about freedom and
waving his penny flag, The Bulletin man thought
of these things and felt glad.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK-
Her Majesty’s “ Pinafore.”
Roy ai. “ Woman and Wine.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Criterion “ Briton and Boer."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Professor’s Love Story.”
Her Majesty’s “Magda.”
Theatre Royal “ The Ladder of Life.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Athenaeum Hall The War Biographe.
Town Hall Donald Macdonald.
Town Hall Scherek’s Orchestral Concerts.
(Saturday Afternoon.)
Williamson s new opera company opened
its Sydney season with good old “ Pinafore,”
and before James Cassius had got the lid more
than half off, Sydney had decided to receive the
visitors in a friendly spirit. The new combina-
tion may not be absolutely Al, but it certainly
doesnt get down anywhere near being Z-numer-
ous. It gives an excellent all-round perform-
ance, in which there are only two disappoint-
ments—or possibly I£. Lauri’s Sir Joseph Porter
seems to have been poured out the day before
yesterday ; there is a grievous lack of head on
it, and it is mostly flat and silent. It certainly
froths up to some extent in Act 11., but Lauri
doesn t take kindly to the part, and he ought
to be poured back into the bottle. Also, Doro-
thy Vane is only a mitigated success as Little
-Buttercup. Still, the rest of the co. is so good
that “ Pinafore ” could bear up against worse
troubles than these. Brownlow not only fills the
part of Captain Corcoran to overflowing, but he
has the further advantage of looking heavenly in
his blue uniform ; and Kenningham’s Ralph Rack-
straw cal Is for more kind remarks than there is space
for. Both these notables fill their parts for the first
time in Sydney. So does everybody else; even
the midshipmite. Miss Carrie Moore is the new
Josephine, and the fact that that dainty little
actress is making great strides in the profession
again asserts itself. There have been many
Josephines, including one dressed from her top-
feather to her_ boot-soles in bright, shrieksome
blue ; and if Miss Moore isn’t at the top of the list
she is still a very long way from the bottom.
Harry ohm© s bos’n is about the best bos’ii Sydney
h,os seen so long as he sticks to the book, and the
Dick Deadeye of Hugh Ward is also excellent,
though the angularness of that worthy and ill-
meaning mariner doesn’t show up very distinctly.
The last Deadeye this writer remembers was
Parley, and in a purely trigonometrical sense he
prefers I arlev. Ward is mostly a plain, equilateral
triangle, while Farley was isosceles, scalene and
various, and sometimes rushed out of his triangle
altogether and threatened to become a parallelo-
gram or a cone or polygon or even a rhombohedron.
* * * *
Sundry interpolated songs at the begin-
ning of Act IL and a species of midnight concert
on the deck of the Pinafore are passed over in
comparative silence. There are people who would
put a song and dance into Ephesians, so Gilbert’s
opera could hardly hope to escape. Pat Bathurst’s
fine voice gives a lift to a dismally commonplace
song in this interpolation. As for the war pic-
tures, some of them are excellent, and most of
them have got the insane joggle of the kinemato-
graph in their souls. The programme alleges that
they include “marvellous pictures of actual fight-
mg. This scribe didn’t see these marvellous
pictures. The firing of the disappearing gun is a
fine piece of work that has fewer crazy jumps
tlmn most biographs, but the gun isn’t fired at a
visible enemy, and a certain scurrying of troops
on a plain lacks any perceptible Boers or any
visible killed or wounded to distinguish it from a
mere peaceful review proceeding. An attempt is
made to appeal to the public sentiment of the
moment by showing Paul Kruger upside-down,
but on Monday night only half-a-dozen people
had energy enough to hoot at the big man with
the barn-door countenance.
** * *
A good deal more of Sydney than the
Theatre Royal could comfortably hold cast itself
headlong into that building on Saturday night to
witness its treasured and newly-returned Bland
Holt. It saw him in an Eton jacket and a pair of
short pants as a youth of 24, whom his egg-bald
father insists on passing off as 16 because the
glabrous progenitor is trying to pass himself off
as 35 in order to mash Mrs. Holt. She, in her
turn, is already married to Bland in his Eton suit,
and they have been guilty of a baby between them’
but Bland is wholly dependent on his parent, and
they daren’t revolt lest the old man should stop
their allowance, so Mrs. Bland holds a candle to
the progenitor and makes the best of things. Bland
and his wife and the baby and progenitor Brown are
the comedy elements of “ Women and Wine,’’and
they have no connection whatever with the tragedy
—run by Baker, Norman, and Misses Frances Ross,
Ireland, and Fitzmaurice Gill—save and except
that Bland tries to carry Baker home when he
is ruined and drunk, and later on falls into a tank
while looking for the woman who can clear Baker’s
character. Baker is the same old hero, and his
ringing voice as he declares that he didn’t in-
tentionally kill the woman whose body is found in
a basket in the flower-market can be heard down
in the threepenny bars in York-street. Baker’s
tather is blind and ruined, and Baker himself
tads to pass his barrister’s examination because he
lias spent his time breathing into the back hair of
the siren—who is Miss Harrie Ireland. He casts
ort his own sweetheart because he finds her under
suspicious circumstances in a lawyer’s office where
she lias gone to secretly pay Baker’s debts with
her own money. Then the siren leads him to
Bans where he bums the candle at both ends and
leaves it on the hob in between times, and the
siren throws him over for Norman when he is
cleaned out; and Norman throws his previous
ffirl over for the siren ; and later the siren throws
Norman over for a duke ; and then Norman pro-
m?®e® .*° S° back to his first girl if she
w ill kill his second girl. Wherefore Norman’s
previous girl kills Baker’s previous girl in a duel
with knives m the flower market, and Baker, who
13 u i is too drunk to remember
whether he did it or not. Anyhow, he is found
guilty, and is being sentenced when Norman’s
previous girl comes in and says, for no visible
reason, that she did it. Whereupon Baker acquits
himself without waiting for the court to do it
• * * *
The P lot is largely a mixture of “ Silver
jg. , an< i “ New Boy,” but a good company,
and rich scenery, and Bland’s good stagecraft cast
a glamour over it that isn’t its own. The only
character who has a flavour of originality is
Arthur tetyan’s Calibap, the red-headed hunch-
back, who rushes to grind two big carving-knives
*»■«»* ff hears that the girls are going to
light to the death. Caliban’s entreaties that they
won t start till he has got a good edge on the
knives are pathetic. Caliban also proposes hav-
ing Baker arrested for the mur lor because it
appeals to his sense of humour, and the find-
ing of Miss. Ireland’s body in the basket
makes him laugh till he nearly falls down
eight times. The four ladies already men-
tioned do much good work ; and Baker, Norman,
Bland Holt, Charles Brown, and plump Napo-
leon Boffara (who sings in a pleasing tenor voice
just when Baker is ruined) are all persons that it
is a pleasure to meet. But their parts are more or
less conventional. Caliban, with his refreshing
desire to see somebody or anybody or everybody
killed, not that he may make money out of it,
but merely that the sight of the body may com-
fort his declining years, and make him laugh
when he wakes up in the night, is bright and
original. And originality is scarce.
** * *
Alfred Dampier produces “ Briton and
Criterion on Saturday, until
which date Miss Lily Dampier will soothe the
last hours of little Willie as usual. M iss Dampier
is a better actress than of yore, and the only
senous drawback to her performance of the lady
of Last Lynne is her comfortable plumpness.
I Ins is all right m the earlier stages of the drama,
but the lady who dies in the last act of a bad
consumptive korf and a broken heart shouldn’t be
plump and healthy-looking. She should point a
transparent hand up Above, and her weight
shouldn t be more than six-stone —everything
above that is an outrage. Therefore plump stage
heroines should perish of plague or dog-bite or
some other complaint which rains on the thin and
the stout alike ; or else the lady who is strong
and healthy at 8 p.m. should have a thin duplicate
to die for her at 11.
* * **
At Sydney Tivoli, where the virtues of
whisky and bile remedies and various sorts of
tobacco glare from a curtain of many colors
things are much as usual. Jimmy Bain’s cry of
Ile ! Pie ! Pie ! a parody of the Abstracted
Petitioner or Meditative Abstractor—will cease
to flow on Friday night owing to the departure
of the tap to Yankeeland. The Martinetti
dumb-shows are apparently popular, probably
because there is so much of them for the money.
.Robert Macaire ” is the silent drama of the
ma,n who cuts his finger while slicing the bread,
and the individual who puts his stick down
heavily on the other fellow’s toe, and gets in the
way of everything that falls from an elevated
position, and goes on to die tragically while
turning a somersault. There isn’t very much in
it save quantity, but about that there is no mis-
take whatever.
# m *
“The Professor's Love Story,” which
struck this country at Melb. Princess’s last Satur-
is just what one expects from the author of
Ihe Little Minister.” It has a simple, fragile
plot, worked out in quaint style to a neat finish.
Ihe sentunent of the story is tender all the time,
and the humor never descends to “ comic relief”—
m fact, “The Professor’s Love Story” will suit
the palate of all people who don’t want to feed
their intellects with pork and apple-sauce. There
are only eleven characters, all told, in Barrie’s
gentle comedy, but most of them are interesting
individuals. Love takes the Professor by surprise
just when he is in danger of getting hopelessly
scientific. Much learning has made him so old
and absent-minded that the sister who safeguards
his bachelor state permits a very marriageable
young woman to be his private secre-
tary and in due course the said sister is
shocked to find her relative playing bo-
peep with his amanuensis in a large, yellow
cornfield. Up to this time the Professor doesn’t
know what is the matter with him. He is merely
conscious of a desire to frisk. But it happens that
an interloping widow notifies her intention to
taint on a corn-sheaf and get restored to conscious-
ness by the erudite lambkin, after which she will
consider themselves engaged. Then the right
girl decides to euchre the widow, anyhow, by
being the first one to lose consciousness on the
straw, and when the Prof, has carried the artful
angel to the nearest river in his arms he is a lost
scientist. The serious maiden sister makes trouble
for a while, on the ground that her own deceased
lover was a fraud, but subsequently discovers he
was not false at all, therefore she allows the
Professor to take Lucy into the firm and the
baffled widow retires for good. Apart from the
central narrative there are two sad agriculturists
who cherish a slow, lumbering affection for the
same Effie, and the chump with fewest cobwebs
in his hair secures the prize.
*
Charles Arnold, in his representation of
the professor, takes no risks. He represents
Arnold a few years older and* quieter than usual,
and as he is always an amiable Arnold, and no-
body can show cause why lie shouldn’t pass for a
bookworm occasionally, the performance is a nega-
tive success. It doesn’t suggest any depth of
character in the alleged professor, but for that
matter, the comedy doesn’t seem to have provided
much character for the actor to work upon. Miss
Hot Frederic, as the secretary, is all the better
for being in a part where her favourite manner-
isms are under judicious restraint. When she
grows accustomed to her new mood the little lady
will be better than on Saturday. Miss Agnes
Knight is a very sympathetic sister, also the two
yokels—Fred Sharp and .Frank Denton—are im-
portant considerations, ancLfhe other people are
well placed with the excepnon of Miss Inez Ben-
susan, who is not yet a sufficiently practised
actress to play the rather difficult and unthankful
part of a giddy old hen.
*# * *
“ Magda ” and Miss Nance O’Neil came
along to Her Majesty’s (Melb.) last Saturday. A
crowded house and a flashlight photo, of the
audience were features of the occasion, and his
Waxellency was present, and one way and
another the occasion tried its hardest to make
Miss O’N. look as large as she had been painted in
many preliminary paragraphs. Physically the
massive visitor is about the size of her advance
notices, though, by-the-way, she is not quite
another Maxine Elliott, Artistically well,
Nance O’Neil is not a great actress, or
even a finished actress, but she makes an
imposing show on the stage and turns her
back upon her admirers as though her left
shoulder-blade were—-in a Gilbertian way of
sneaking—a miracle of histrionic effect. Magda—
Ihe Bulletin has previously remarked —is the
well-written tale of a broad-minded prodigal
daughter, who made the mistake of returning (on
a visit of uncertain duration) to a dull, narrow-
minded home. It is a play of small details and
long, eloquent dialogues, and the lady in the
name-part has the best of the conversation from
the moment she appears. She appears in a gor-
geous cloak, and, after an impressive removal of
the outer raiment, she scores a decided success
with her gorgeous arms, bust and back, especially
her back.
* * * *
It seems to the present scribe that Miss
Nance’s Magda is out of the picture. M'Kee
Rankin, as the old semi-fool of a parent, is a
convincing figure, likewise his docile daughter,
Marie. The priggish pastor (Thomas Kingston)
is a fair sample of the profession. Harry Plimmer,
as the dull, red-headed lawyer, plays a life-like
scene with Mr. Rankin aforesaid, and the minor
characters (save the amateurish Miss Allen) tend
to give Magda’s old home an air of reality, what
time the overwhelming daughter isn’t there. Miss
O’Neil’s large, loud performance lacks feeling, and
variety. Some of her movements aie ungraceful,
and the actress has but one effective facial expres-
sion, viz., a tragic scowl which soon palls on the
observer. At the times when her face would be
expected to express strong emotions other than
the monotonous anger of the lady, Nance gets
over the difficulty by hanging her head or turning
her back to the audience. No matter, “Magda”
is a powerful play, and Nance O’Neil’s name pro-
mises to be a powerful attraction.
#* * *
At Melbourne Royal, the girl who loves
M'Dougall is still wiping her eye on the corner
of his kilt, and the two villains persist in their
strange endeavor to demolish Miss Eugenie
Duggan with a steam hammer. The sixth week
of “The Ladder of Life” finds that wild, irre-
sponsible melodrama fighting hard against its
fate. Another drama, “On Active Service,” is
ready to jump the Royal stage, but, meanwhile,
“The Ladder,” it appears, is stayed in the bones of
British heroes or something, and it will probably
refuse to be shifted until next week.
* # #-
Amann, of the elastic countenance, is
closing his long season at the Bijou on Friday of
this week ; so is the somewhat cerulean Seel, who
is too muqh like a nightmare to please nervous
people. Arrangements for filling these vacancies
were not announced at time of writing. The
Ilaytors are getting along cheerfully with their
new turn, which bears a strong family resemblance
to one of the turns they gave us years ago, but is
just as laughable all the same. On Saturday
afternoon a special matinee in .aid of certain
orphanage funds is to happen at the Bijou, and
the companies from the Princess’s and the Royal
will assist the cause.
** * *
The new Biograph, before which all pre-
vious biographs must pale their flickering fires,
has scored about as great a draw as the size of the
Athemeum Ilall will permit. The pictures and
incidental orchestra give two performances a day,
and more often than not all seats are taken. Last
time the writer called in to see Lord Roberts,
Spion Kop and bugler boy Dunn (who shot three
Boers with his dear little revolver), the cleverest
picture in the series showed a shortish, stoutish,
goodish-looking man—the Prince of Wales, in fact
—walking past a regiment of soldiers at six o’clock
a.m. The foreground figures were so sharp and
true that one could almost see Albert Edward
earning an appetite for breakfast by the dew on
his whiskers.
* * * *-
At the Scherek Orchestral Concert, last
Saturday afternoon, an enthusiastic audience
filled the shilling parts, whereas the evidences of
taste for music in the two and three “bob’sec-
tions were not very numerous. Alberto Zelman
tackled his long solo in the Mendelssohn concerto
with a brave heart, and Mrs. Grace Ward’s pretty
soprano voice sounded stronger than it was a
month ago. The principal item in next Saturday’s
concert will have clever young Una Bourne at the
piano.
** * *
Donald Macdonald, the bright, able-minded
journalist who lived for many weeks in Ladysmith
upon the lean of the land, and who learned the
flavor of mule’s hoof from bitter experience, is
about to start upon a lecturing tour. The first
appearance of Mac. in his new character is fixed
for to-night (Thursday) at Melbourne Town Hall,
where he will lecture some more on Saturday (9th.)
and Wednesday next (13th.) Success is only a
matter of health and strength with the Aucius
man from Ladysmith. He has many tales to tell
—sad tales, funny tales, tales of blood and thun-
der, and tales of simple human nature in a state
of suffering from rats inside —and he tells them
for all they are worth.
The WILD CAT
COUMN
The gigantic A.M.P. Society’s policy-holders
are to meet and vote on 20th July to decide whether the
directors shall be Riven power to extend the business
beyond Australasia, to any part of the British Empire.
Australasia is almost the healthiest pit c ■ in the
the Empire, so the extension is almost certain to mean a
higher mortality-rate, and consequently lower profits
Also, an extension to England means the necessary in-
vestment of part of the funds in a country where interest-
rates are less than they are here—which also means lower
profits. And the A.M.P. Society is doing well in Austra-
lasia ; it is one of the half-dozen or so most progressive
offices in the world ; and the directors have never offered
any tangible reason why this amazingly-prosperous office
shouldn't leave well alone. Yet they are in such deadly
earnest over their fad that they have descended to
a very questionable dodge for cooking the vo.e, and
stuffing the ballot-box, and faking the result. They don't
issue a voting-paper to each policy-holder, and let him
send in or bring in his “ Yes ” or “ No,” and decide accor-
ding to whether the “Yes” or the “No" predominates,
leaving out of consideration the great mass of policy-
holders who record no opinion either way. Instead they
have struck a great idea for counting those who record
no opinion either way as voting for tiie extension.
Every policy-holder receives a form to fill in appointing
Speaker Abbott his proxy at the meeting (of course not
one policy-holder in 100 can attend a meeting held in
Sydney). A stamped envelope is enclosed for return
There is no voting-paper—only a proxy-form, and the
proxy-form doesn’t even contain a blank space in which
the policy-holder can express his views. And it is intimated
in a bright, off-hand fashion that Speaker Abbott will use
the proxy .as a vote for the extension 1! !! Those who are
strongly and intelligently for or against the extension
will probably be unaffected by this dodge, but the great
mass of policy-holders have no fixed opinion, and don’t
know what it is all about. And (especially as Speaker
Abbott is understood to be a very respectable personage
indeed) very many of them will sign their proxies and
send them in merely because it looks dishonest not to do
so when the society has wasted the policy-holders’ money
on sending a stamp. And all these absolutely indifferent
people are to be counted as strong and intelligent sup-
porters of the dangerous policy of extension. It is a
mean and shabby dodge for getting a bogus majority,
and every intelligent, member should object. A numbei
intend objecting at a public meeting on 11th June
* ♦ * ,
Some figures from past and present balance-
sheets of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society •
Premiums in-
sideratTon for Intereat Income. Ex P enses A<^ ed
Annuities. Funds.
1892 .. £312,494 £80,115 £392,609 £85,120 £150,236
189.3 .. 308,1 30 81,026 389,766 84,069 139,704
1894 .. 305,530 86,953 392,483 79,391 131,328
1895 .. 303,983 89,703 393,686 78,429 130,207
1896 .. 311,558 81,147 392,705 78,180 117,137
1 897 .. 312,450 84,562 397,012 80,404 112,370
1898 .. 322,768 90,130 412,898 79,996 108 314
1899 .. 317,548 92,196 409,744 75,832 123J>10
The decline in the amount of business done is owing to
the fact that the Colonial Mutual has had to abandon its
Transvaal and Orange Free State business on account of
the war. As the accounts are only up to 31st December,
99, the other results are not apparent vet; the claims
for 1900 will probably indicate whether any large
number of policy-holders have been getting in the way of
the British guns, and with what consequences to them-
selves. Still the addition made to the funds is the largest
since 1895. Also, the expenses are £23 17s. 7d. per cent,
on premiums, or £lB 10s. Id. per cent, on total income,
which is the lowest figure this office has yet reached. In
* ex P enses were £24 Pis. per cent, on premiums, or
&-19 4s. per cent, on total income, so a large saving has


t
/
tetz-sf
?hb 1
ZETZ Spring'
B4UUBOHK
mm BUB6O
TME
teWEI,
IUIMUL
Mill
)mm
j fybaccof
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
HAVY AND WAR OFFICE-
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cone Bros, & Go., Ltd,, Liverpool. Agents; M, Rutty & Co,, Sydney,
umr
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
Insurance Spectator, July 1, 1899: “ The
Colonial Mutual Society stands on a broad and firm basis,
its interests are widely spread, it has the confidence of
the assuring public, a strong programme, and energetic
management.”*
» * * •
Mr. J. A. Wallace, the pioneer of the gold-
dredging industry in Australia, holds a long stretch of the
Sandy Creek, near Yackandandah, and intends installing
a very large electrical plant to operate several dredges.
An order has just been placed with the Austral Otis
Engineering Co., of South Melbourne, to supply high-class
compound condensing engines, with Corliss valve gear, of
400 h.p., together with boilers and fittings to operate the
first section of the plant. A duplicate plant to this will
be installed later and will work three electric dredges on
a stretch of about two miles of the creek. Each dredge
will have a capacity of about 150 cubic yards per hour.*
* • • •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* # # *
Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, Mining Machinery
Merchants, 506 Little Gollins-strcet, Melbourne, report
that the Luhrig system of concentration is gradually es-
tablishing itself in the principal mills of Australia. The
latest Luhrig vanner has a large capacity, and owing to
important improvements the life of the belt, &c., is greatly
increased. Vanners and spare parts are stocked in Melb.
and prompt delivery is thus assured. A small testing
plant is available near Melbourne. Upon receipt of
necessary data, estimates for complete plants, including
batteries, rolls, trommels, jigs, classifiers, vanners, &c.,
will be proceeded with by competent engineers.*
* * • •
Ward off Influenza by taking
ltow’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
• * * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 Qeorge-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor llorsfleld Improved National Bock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develops, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* * * +
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Iron founder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sortsof iron-work.*
« * * •
Gilfillan and McCreery have removed to more
commodious offices in the Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne. They have enlarged their mining laboratory
and ore-testing works and are prepared to test parcels of
ore to ascertain the most successful and economical
method of treatment.*
• » » •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
■ « * •
Gibraltar Consolidated, Adelong, N.S.W. :
latest about this mine from London shows
a loss of about £ i 000 from one month’s
run. Three or four years ago it started with
some excellent crushings, paid one or two divs.,
which had the effect of sending shares in a i 300,000 co. to
a big premium ; they are now a less number of shillings
than they were then pounds, and abandonment seems
within measurable distance. The erection of such an
enormous and costly plant to work so small a vein in such
hard country was as unwarranted as the capitalisation
was excessive.
* * * *
United Exploration Co. has gone the way of most
others—into voluntary liquidation. At its final meeting
in London recently a shareholder declared that £371,683
had been spent uselessly—all that the shareholders had to
show for it were worthless shares in (with one exception)
worthless mines—name of exception not disclosed. Surely
not the Paddy Lackev Deep Levels ? Or was it the mine
this co. handled at Hillgrove ? Altogether it had a bad
time in Australia, especially in N.S.W., where it bonded
many mines, worked a few, got little or no gold in any,
and, at the same time, missed two or three excellent op-
portunities, the Paddy Lackey itself, to wit.
• * * *
Another big-mine change.—Mr. Hewitson has
resigned the Ivanhoe managership. Well, anyone who
knows Hewitson will be of opinion that the directors
aren’t looking for a more honest man—or for a more com-
monsense one.
* * *
As anticipated, George Brookman is having a
hot time in London ; cabled that he has resigned several
mining-directorships.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
©austic Soda, Oarb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinn Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 817.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st. , Sydney; 68 Currie-st Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay , Wellinoton, NX. ;
Water-street,.Dunedin ; Queen-street, Auckland.
A. E. (SOLDSTEIH,
(c/o S. lIOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Soouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
been effected. If a similar economy can be ca f lj, ec igc ome 0 me
.very few years more the Colonial Mutual widbecom
one of the small group of Australasian life ii ne s.
can claim to be managed on thoroughly eco " ; n that
As things are, it has made considerable progress in mat
direction.
In another direction the prospects are le ®? n^. fc
The interest earned on the average funds dun , . ...
is only £3 19s 4d per cent. If the amount of the aep
ciation fund is written off the alleged va^ e r cen t.
the interest earnings are even then onlj 'f ' L,« to
on the average funds, taking them at , Mutual
be their lowest real value. Now the Colonial Mutual
bases its calculations as regards its old P oh sSU n,ption
form the great mass of the business) on the a 1
that its funds will yield £4 per cent. As regards the new
business (that of the last two or three years mos t
sumes £3 10s per cent. At this rate it has, by the mosu
favourable method of calculation, a margin ot l
cent, on its new policies, and of sevenpence pe ■
the old ones. By the other mode of calculatio
margin of 9s 4d per eent. on new policies, an da
of eightpence percent, on old ones. No other Austra
lasian office of any note has so miserably small u p
of safety. Referring to some back numbers ot t.
Cat Column ” the writer digs out these figures .
Interest
Interest rate on
actually which Margin,
earned estimates
per cent, are based
per cent.
Temperance and General „„ A Q a
(ordinary branch) .. £4 19 0 £3 10 0 £1 9 0
City Mutual .. .. 644 4 0 0 ian
M.L. Govt. Department.. 414 0 310 0 l
A.M.P. (£48,813 reserved
with view to reducing . , Ift
estimates to 3 per cent.) 411 10 310 0 1
Mutual Life Association.. 410 0 310 0 i
National Mutual (£50,000
reserved with view to
reducing estimate t 034 . _ ~
percent.) .. . 415 10 40 0 15 10
Widows’ Fund .. .. 410 9 4 0 0 10
OolonialMutual(newbusi- „ _ A „
ness).. .. .. 40 7 310 0 W ?
Citizens’(ordinary branch) 314 0 310 0 4
Colonial Mutual (old busi- A h
ness).. .. ..4 0 7 4 0 0 7
As regards the Citizens’, the difficulty last year
was partly owing’ to the fact that a large proportion of trie
funds were represented by a huge, unfinished and unpro-
ductive building. But the Colonial Mutual s trouble
appears to be chronic. The situation is this : Comparing
it with other offices of about its own size and standing it
appears a fair assumption that the funds, with all assets
written down to actual present value, should yield at
least £4 10s. per cent, all round, and to bring them to
that point it would be necessary to write off the existing
depreciation fund and about £240,000 in addition. And
then, so far as the old business (which is still the great
bulk of the business) was concerned the Colonial Mutual
would still have a margin of safety, as between interest
estimated and interest actually earned, of only 10s. per
cent, and (so far as the old business was concerned) it
would still look the least safe and the least promising
of all the large life offices of Australasia.
To give as large a margin as that of the National Mutual
it would he necess iry, on present appearances, to write
down the assets by more than £361,000. On the outward
appearance of things, the present writer, at all events,
can come to no other conclusion than that the Colonial
Mutual hasn’t been making sufficient provision for depre-
ciation in the past, and that its assets are at present very
much over-valued, and that there is a great difficulty to
be faced. The quinquennial investigation takes place
this year, and it will he interesting to note how the board
decides to deal with the situation.
* * * *
The Bankers’ Magazine (published in Mel-
bourne) remarks in its issue of 25th May that the writing-
down of capital by the National Bank (Melb.) was “ a
surprise to everyone.” If it was a surprise to the
Bankers’ Magazine that paper didn’t see so far ahead as
The Bulletin’s “ Wild Cat Column ” did. On 29th Oct.,
’9B, and again on Gth May, ’99, and a third time oil 4th
Nov. of same year it foretold that the National would
have to write down its capital. The 18 months’ warning
whicli this paper gave should have guarded against the
surprise above-mentioned. Yet apparently the public
was surprised, for it bought National ordinary shares in
the first half of April at from 82s. to 88s., and then they
dropped as low as 755.
* * * *
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Co.
(Sydney), whose balance-sheet to 31st March, 1900, is just
to hand, shows this brilliant record for the past 9 years :
„ „„ , I Policy- Added to
To 31st p ro f lt Shareholders [holders’ various
March. Dn idend (about). . jj onug Reserves.
1892 £15,546 40 per cent = £5002 \ £4002 £6500
1893 15,377 39J „ 4965 , 3965 6250
1894 17,069 38 „ 4847 i 3847 8000
(Paid-up capital increased from €12,500 to £25,000
by appropriation from Contingency Reserve.)
1895 £15,668 234 per cent = £5862 £3862 £6250
1896 15,087 23 „ 5729 3729 5500
1897 15,851 224 „ 5651 3651 7000
1898 17,617 22§ „ 5720 3720 7500
1899 17,530 241 » 6055 4055 7500
(Paid-up capital increased from £25,000 to £37,500
by appropriation from Contingency Reserve.)
1900 £17,213 19 per cent = £7087 I £4087 I £5OOO
£146,988 I £50,918 |£34,918 | £59,500
Less £25,000 transferred to capital and.£2ooo
losses written off 27,000
£32,500
In nine years, therefore, the Australian Mutual Fire Co.
has paid £34,918 in bonuses to policy-holders, added
£25,000 to its paid-up capital out of profits, added £32,500
to its reserves, and increased the balance at credit of
profit and loss by £1652. The shareholders are certainly
having a great time. They originally put up £6250. It
was increased to £12,500 by the re-valuation of their free-
hold property about 14 years ago, in the days when free-
hold property did occasionally increase ill value, and, later,
25,000 more was added out of profits, so last year the
■original holders received over 144 per cent, on the capital
which they actually put up. In the last nine years they
have got their capital back eight times over. The Aus-
tralian Mutual Fire has now a paid-up capital of £37,500
and £109,638 of reserves, the latter being a record with
which no other purely Australian fire office can compare.
And these results have been achieved despite many years
of steady adherence to the policy of doing business in one
province only—the policy which, according to the blatant
“expert,” is so utterly ruinous and disastrous as to make
State fire insurance (which would be necessarily confined
to one province only) quite impossible.
After which eulogium The Bulletin rises to
remark that the Australian Mutual, Fire Co. s balance-
rwrr™ntains not half so much information as it should
to vvhere theca’s big pile is invested. “Investments,
freehold property and mortgages £109,584 ” is hardly
worth calling information. An institution whose assets
cari stand the glare of public inspection should be more
liberal
The Equitable Permanent Benefit Building
Land and Savings Institution (Sydney) issues its balance-
sheet for year ended 31/3/1900. The document leaves a
vat ue impression of prosperity, but it is so mysterious
that few- details can be dug out of it. This institution
never states what its profits are. The year began
with a profit balance of £4946. The gross receipts were
£l5 200 • office expenses were £lBl7, and interest accrued
£2496 Also an 8 per cent div. on investing 1 snares
absorbed £30.. These things are clear enough. Then it
is stated thafc interest paid on deposits and bank over-
draft (which are items of working expenses) and 9 per
cent div. to shareholders (which is an item that should
come out of profits and be shown separately)—these three
lumped together come to £9699. A'so a bonus ab-
sorbs £2113, and another bonus runs to £282. An insti-
tution whose accounts were kept on sane principles
would show what balance remained as net profit after
meeting all working expenses, interest on deposits of all
kinds, and interest to bank. Out of this balance it would
pay its div. and bonus to ordinary and investing share-
holders. Then its report would show what the profits
really are. Some things that are certain, however, are
these : The co., in its wild desire to pay a large div
(whatever it came to), and a bonus as well, spent £123/
more than its earnings (whatever they were). And this
is not the only occasion on which it has done so, for its
reserves of all kinds are now only £26,755, whereas five
years ago they stood at £29,003. The decline isnt
large, hut the muddled state of the balance-sheet is
aggravating. . * ,
The recent record of Burns, Philp and Co.,
Limited, the concern which owns North Queensland and
all the live and dead contents thereof
To 31st Profit, less T o Reserve. Divide id.
March depreciation.
1897 .. £26,187 .. 8 per cent. = £21,400
1898 .. 43,289 .. £25,000 „ „ = 21,400
1899 .. 33,662 .. 20,000 „ „ = 21,400
1900 .. 53,670 .. 25,000 „ „ = 22,000
The latest addition to the reserve fund raises it to
£170,000, no less than £70,000 of which is the accumula-
tion of the past three years, while in the previous 14
years only £lOO,OOO was accumulated. There are also
other reserves amounting to £14,676 and £6670 at credit
of profit and loss. Profits are equal to 19) per cent,
per annum on paid-up capital, so one shipping concern, at
all events, appears to be doing well.
* • » *
The Swan Brewery Co. (Perth, W.A.) issues
its balance-sheet for the six months ended 31st March,
1900. That is the dry and hot and beery season of the
year, and things have improved accordingly. Recent
profits have been : „„„
September, 1896 .. £7,564 September, 1898 .. £13,171
March, 1897 .. 22,038 March, 1899 .. 17,<09
September, 1897 .. 15,784 September, 1899 .. 9,762
March, 1898 .. 24,048 March, 1000 .. 15,970
A dividend at the rate of 16 per cent, per annum absorbs
£6087 ; £5OOO is added to reserve fund, and £5OOO to the
reserve fund for depreciation of securities : consequently
the profit balance is decreased by £ll7—from £12,113 to
£11,996. The actual net earnings for the half-year, how-
ever, were only £12,454—1n other words the co. made
£15,970 as its half-year’s profit, and took £3516 from its
depreciation fund to cover the half-year’s losses. Even
this, however, is at the rate of over 32 per cent, per an-
num on capital, so no one can reasonably complain.
The Swan Brewery has £76,087 10s. paid-up capital (of
which £31,703 is capitalised profits, so that the share-
holders are receiving over 27 per cent, on the money they
actually put into the business); £25,000 reserve-fund ;
£14,485 depreciation reserve ; and 611,996 profit balance ;
therefore the humble £44,384 which the shareholders
actually subscribed has grown to £127,569. Also the co.
has a bank balance of £5255, whereas 18 months ago
it had £18,667 overdraft. Yet with all this pro-
sperity the boom isn’t what it was. The profits for the
thirsty half of 1900 are nearly £2OOO less than those for
the corresponding half of 1899 ; over £BOOO less than for
’9B, and over £6OOO less than for ’97. And the returns for
September last showed a great fall as compared with the
two previous Septembers.
Some recent records of Permewan, Wright and
00., Limited (Melbourne)
Deprecia- Added
Gross Dividend. tion written to
Prefit. off. Reserve.
1891.. £8335 10 per cent. =£3750 £l4OO £3OOO
1892.. 8330 „ ~ = 3750 1100 3000
1893.. 5395 „ „ = 3750 1500
1894.. 4549 „ „ = 3750 500
1895.. 3051 „ „ = 3750 1000
1896.. 5594 „ „ = 3750 750 1250
1897.. 5013 „ „ = 3750 500 750
1898.. 4269 „ „ = 3750 500
1899.. 4536(5ay)8 „ = 4062 500
A year ago the net overdraft had climbed up to over
£21,000 as a result of conducting a big carrying business
with insufficient capital, and it was decided to. largely in-
crease the paid-up capital (then only £37,500). It now
stands at £51,921, also there is a reserve-fund of £20,000
and profit-balance of £1142. With this increase of capi-
tal, and in the absence of any corresponding increase of
profits, it appears as if the days of 10 per cent, dividends
were past—for the time, at all events.
r * * * *
Like an invading horde, the gold-dredging
boomster, pegger, speckcr, and tipster have swooped
down upon Greymouth (M.L.). For the past six months
it has been the Mecca for those who suddenly remembered
the golden glories of the (Wild) West Coast of Maoriland
when the long-handled shovel, never able to delve deeper
than 13ft., turned out more gold per man than most
N.S.W. dredges are now winning per week. These were the
days of Darkies’ Terrace, when the poorest claim panned
out lloz. per load. It’s a passing mystery why ML.
should have been so long in calling all this to mind ; now
she is making up for lost time with a vengeance. Already
hundreds of miles of sea-beach and river-bank are pegged
and floated into limited liability cos., representing
£16,000,000 sterling, and they say the fun has only just
begun. „ ,
* * *
For the first quarter of the year, Maoriland re-
turned £371,838 in gold, an increase of £11,789 over same
period previous year. # #
The Woodlark Island mystery game goes merrily
on The show’s Sydney officials and perch have been
changed. Let us hope that some more of the good old
original 17cwt.-20oz. stuff will gladden the hearts and
pockets of the hopeful souls who waded in at 40s. or
thereabouts, and still hang on.
* * *
Garnet Freehold shares have advanced consider-
ably owing to an important find of 5 per cent, of
copper-ore in the south end of the mine. The Freehold
should be smelting within a few months. As to Chilla-
go°s, it is said that the authorities, who seem to be pla,y-
fn,r so far as the public are concerned, a chilhngly-
unenthusiastic game, believe that the gold-contents of
their ores will make a sensation.
» * • •
“Mainshaft”: Garnet Freehold is finding the
south end of its mine to be the best. The new make of
ore has been driven on over 100 ft., and is now within 80ft.
of the southerly limit of* the Freehold. Little under-
ground work going on as enough ore has been blocked to
keep the smelters going for three years, but a small army
of navvies is removing the overburden and making the
benches. Smelters will be in blast by August, but direc-
tors should not delay appointing a general
already the friction between the sub-managers is
remarked locally.
Said that the Queensland M.P. and I. Co.,
owning 1000 acres in Ohillagoe district (and the market
for whose shares there was an attempt to boost lately),
has now signed a fresh contract placing its property
under offer to a London syndicate, and that the £2OOO
deposit paid by the original syndicate has been forfeited
by the co. New co. to start with £lO,OOO cash at credit.
* • » *
Croydon Notes: Another Cashman’s Golden
Gate clean-up about 6th May gave 5400 z. from 196 tons,
and a tribute crushing from same mine 6420 z. from 133
tons. Rogers' Golden Gate keeping up excellent aver-
age. Croydon Goldfields (Golden Gate 10 North) com-
ing to front with good crushing's. -Golden Gate 4 and 5
South Block (98) bears an evil reputation and only a strike
of solid gold might cause shares to move. A reported dis-
covery of payable stone in a “ buck ” face was not con-
firmed at time of writing (12th May). Croydon field
generally depressed owing to want of water, but mining
prospects in Golden Gate district are decidedly promising.
< « • t
Croydon notes. —Late crushings : Cashman’s
Golden Gate 3 and 4 Proprietary, 121 tons, 37'2£oz. ;
Golden Gate 3 and 4 S. Tribute, 150 tons, 826 oz.—over
51oz. per ton ; another later week’s result from this
Tribute gave 7160 z. Diamond drill started to explore
for lost Ophir (lOoz. per ton) reef under expert manage-
ment, and controlled by strong State-subsidised syndicate
of Croydonites. Want of water now seriously retarding
milling operations, but mines looking well. Outhbert’s
G. Gate, 5 South, partially cleaned up about May 11,
obtaining nearly IOODoz. from 870 tons ; crushing not
completed at latest. G. Gate Consols (Tracey’s Block
Tribute) said to be opening up well. ——G. Gate United,
a promising prospecting show, again sinking on reef.
Morgan’s Block nearing estimated depth to catch reef;
bottom should be reached ere these notes appear.
* * * *
Q. mining notes : Big man Schlapp, at Glad-
stone, reports favorably on Glassford Creek ; syndicate
railway in the air. Croydon tin-show panning out
fairly, but it isn’t Cornwall.—Big Bull co. (of course),
£250,000 capital, started to prove Sit. Barker silver, cop-
per, lead and galena mines, Mackay district. Trial crush-
ing gave lOOozs. silver and 20 percent, copper Several
good crushings reported from Ravenswood. Gympie
flat ; Towers still hustling. Some results : Gympie S.G.
and Monklands, 1673 tons, 6960z5. ; N. Smithfield, 283
tons, 5320z5., 6d. div. ; 4 N. Phoenix, 272 tons, 4130z5., 6d.
div. Towers : Brilliant and St. George, 1400 tons,
14630z5. ; Brilliant Central, 293 tons from new develop-
ments gave 4790z5. ; shares up to 555. Brilliant G.M. Co.,
3d. div. ; Victoria and Caledonia Blocks, 409 tons, 7280z5.
* * * •
Croydon tin-field has been named Stanhope.
Now apparent that country is stanniferous over an area of
nearly 20 miles long by 10 wide, and this area is being
extended by prospecting. Some splendid-looking tin
bodies recently opened in typical tin-granite country.
Many leases and claims taken up, also mill-sites. Croy-
don’s future now looms bright, and much money is
expected to be forthcoming when the “ shows ” have been
fully opened up.
* * * •
Announced that the Mt. Deddiclc Railway
agreement has been duly signed by Vic. Govt., but not
yet announced that the agent for the English Syndicate
has put up a £lO,OOO deposit to bind the bargain. People
who have known the Deddiclc district for 20 years or
more are still dubious as to the sanity of that dark Syn-
dicate. The copper “ lode ” talked of by its agent in
Melbourne is no new discovery. Copper was always evi-
dent to anyone who looked for it on the other side of the
mountain from the Deddick lead mines. The alleged
expert who came from England and kept his movements
shrouded in mystery may have discovered the length,
depth and thickness of the copper lode, but where are the
proofs of his having gone any further into the question
than his scores of predecessors?
* * * *
South German Reef Co., Maldon, has received
another proposal from J. Bull, viz., £6 per share cash and
96,030 fully-paid shares in a co. of 400,000, but subject to
one month’s inspection. Expert has gone up to the mine.
Will it stand this ordeal? When reef was cut off by the
floor, it was awfully close to the adjoining property, and
the winze has been sunk to the 1700 ft. level without finding
it. The adjoining people think reef makes again in their
show, and Vic. Mines Minister has agreed that, in the in-
terests of mining, they should be allowed to drive 25ft.
into their ground from the lower level of the South
German Reef Co. The latter is very savage at this, but
cannot put it off for long. In any case, 400,000 shares
would be a nice load to carry for a mine that has already
distributed £S per share on 28,000 shares, and has now
lost its shoot of gold. The report of the expert now at
the mine is anxiously awaited.
* * * *
Big reefing find reported from Yodda Valley,
Papua, where the other kind of yellow fever takes a
trick or two.
* * * *
TheN.S.W. coal-miners demand that the price
of coal be raised an additional 6d. from July 1, in addition
to the Is. already agreed to by the proprietors.
* * * *
For its half-year to March 31st, B.H. Block 14
made a profit of £12,323. This is the poorest for years ;
yet the output of ore was the co.’s heaviest. Figures for
some time back run like this :
Carbonate Sulphide
Profits. ore. ore.
£ Tons. Tons.
March, ’97 .. .. 17,763 5570 42,745
September,’97 .. 21,698 5801 48,887
March,’9B .. .. 14,150 3900 50,630
September, ’9B .. 12,594 5585 44,838
March. ’99 .. .. 16,221 3016 45,361
September, ’99 .. 17,098 2826 52,385
March, ’9OO .. .. 12,323 2934 58,147
Now, this looks worse than it probably is. If it means
that this co. is not now picking its ore (all Broken Hill
oompanies have been doing more or less of that), well and
good—it simply means giving the mine several more years
to live. Also there appears to have been a rather heavy
loss through the purchase of refractory gold ore. Little
can be got out of this co’s statements, however,
because the management never lets even the
shareholders into its confidence. How much the
ore has fallen off in metal value, what the new develop-
ments are worth, and what has been made out of the re-
treatment of the tailings, are things which one might
reasonably expect shareholders would like information
about. But they don’t ; they had their meeting, and
opened not their mouths. In their own vague way, the
directors announce that the half-year’s development
work has exposed better ore at 500 ft. than at 300 ft. and
400 ft., which is good ; also that, though the bad gold-ore
deal prevented the payment of one of the usual quarterly
divs. last half, there is a likelihood of three divs. this half
to make up for it. Whether this alleged likelihood is
well-founded or not cannot be said, because there isn’t
anything to show what the loss was on the gold-ore deal
or how much profit the co. would have made if it had
stuck to silver-lead mining. If the shareholders get the
extra div., they’ll get it. If they don’t, they don’t. And
that’s all about it.
• * * •
Block 10 shareholders, who get more of the in-
formation that the Block 14 ditto don’t, have also had a
rather less satisfactory half-year. Some figures
Ore treated. Concentrates. Profit.
Tons. Tons. £
September, ’9B 64,212 .. 12,417 .. 40,209
March, ’99 .. 68,216 .. 12,507 .. 60,723
September, ’99 77,185 .. 12,680 .. 57,481
March, 1900 .. 69,183 .. 12,317 .. 46,752
So the falling-off has not been serious. In fact, it has not
been in all respects a falling-off at all; thus there has
been a better yield of concentrates per ton of ore, and the
metal value of the concentrates has also been maintained.
is!?!? 081 '’ 1011 ' S -i ust t-his ■ ore averages 15'Hoz. silver,
lo 16 per cent, of lead, and 20 - 5 per cent, zinc per ton. It
takes 5 tons 12cwt. of ore to make a ton of concentrates,
and these latter are worth 33650 z. silver, 65(54 percent,
lead, and 7'23 per cent, zinc per ton. That is, the eo. gets
out 39-55 per cent, of the silver and 72'31 per cent, of the
lead. The zinc may be passed over because, generally
speaking, no attempt is}-et made to save it—the object is
to get rid of it. The 69,183 tons of ore treated last six
m u- n u 8 ma<^e tons of tailings ; and this material,
which is at present the waste stuff, assays 9’370z. silver,
443 percent, lead, and 20-68 per cent, zinc per ton. To
reduce the quantity of zinc in the concentrates, and to
T^,? ome more the metals out of the tailings, is Broken
Hill s present problem.
* * • *
Block 10 announces that its contract miners
average 9s. 9Jd. a shift—while they are at work, of course.
i n^!> a^e l uan tit.V of ore broken by a miner in a shift is
1-093 tons. This co. had at the end of its last half-year
(March 31) a surplus of liquid assets over liabilities
amounting to £89,996 ; of this £50,000 was a reserve fund,
invested in Vic. 3 per cent. Govt, stock.
* * • •
Junction North, which was lately said to be on
the improve, has had a relapse; its lode at 850 ft. has
changed its course, and instead of going diagonally
through the lease, is making a bee-line for the North.


OVERCOATS FOR THE WINTER SEASON
1 PALMERSTON OVERCOATS—
-42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
V/. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Vicuna, Satin Facings and Fore-parts,
63,s
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
Single-Breasted.
BLUE AND FAWN .BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
BLUE AND FAWN MELTON CLOTH
52s 6d
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d
42s
CLERICAL BLACIt' WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in TWEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s 6d
D. 3. BLUE NAP, 50s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS,
with DEEP CAPE,
aasy Scotch Twe eds, 30s, 355, 50s, 55s
New
Smart
Shapes
PADDOCK COATS-
-56 to 58 inches in Length.
FAWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 58s 6d, 65s
FAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVERT
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 54 to 56 inches in
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d.
COVERT COATS-
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 6d
Fawn Beaver, 45s
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES—
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth Facings, 40s
Black Vicuna, with Satin Facings, 47s 6d, 63s
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
Orient Clothiers, George & Barrack Streets, SYDNEY.
H
■ nas*
SMILE THAT WILL
. PLEASE ,ou
is the result when Portraits are taken by one of
'Tf
HARRINGTONS
CAMERAS
Upwards of 100 different styles in stock.
POPULAR CAMERAS at 55., 12s. 6d„ 215., 255., 305., £2 2s.
£2 10s. to £5 ss.
HICH-CRADE INSTRUMENTS at all prices up to £5O.
Note.
No. 5 FLAT FOLDING KODAK
(Size of Picture, 7x5 inches.
Fitted with Coerz Double Anastigmat Lens, Iris
Diaphragm, Time and Instantaneous Shutter
working between the Lenses. Compact and
elegant. ... Price, £l9.
& Co. Ltd.,
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and York Streets)
Brancnes or Agencies in every colony.
SOCIETY
Such appointments as those of the sons
of Premier Lyne, Colonial Secretary See,
and Darley, C.J., to commissions in N.S.w!
Lancers, constitute an abuse which should be
once and for all squelched by the Legisla-
ture. These first commissions should in every
case be given to the sergeants of the corps,
aS .] possible in the order of seniority,
and the sooner politicians are deprived by statute
of the power of doing otherwise, the better it will
be for he service. “ Promotion from the ranks ”
must be the watchword of the Australian army,
b ortunately, we have as yet no alleged aristocracy
here to grovel to. The man who can rise from the
ranks is the best man. “I made my marshals
out of mud,” said Napoleon.
In the Imperial service, the “ranker” has a
good enough time while he remains single. When
he marries, his life is a “ hell-upon-earth,” for
“ the other cats ” point at his wife and say, “No
class—she married a ranker.” We must get ahead
of this kind of savagery in Australia by 4 seeing that
every man rises from the ranks.
Captain Phillip was the only N.S.W. Gover-
nor untroubled with clerical precedence questions.
He allowed Rev. Richard Johnston to dodder
along as he pleased with a weak sort of Moravian
Church of Englandism, and flogged anyone who
attempted lo teach any other creed. But when he
left, the seels lifted up their heads. First, various
religions w ■ e tolerated, next the heads of these
religions claimed social recognition, next som<
claimed equal recognition and others primary re
cognition, and so oil, until the other day the
''•esbyterians and Wesleyans fell foul of Gov.
-champ because their heads did not receivo
the same cards as the E.C. and R.C. heads.
bodis GO J-i 1 , BeaUChamp s ¥ ccumbs to these new
fron the f i r?, f P*f entahvesabsented themselves
trom the Bnthday levee because cards of entree
wewdemed them—wh„, about thehoM o/X?
• , buccessi ': e Governors have labored in-
some of U th P OVer i th t- dlfficulties of this question,
I*, eni adopting temporary stratagems to
1)10,1 no more honorable term than “dodge” can
be applied, but without valuable result. The only
be n r ? Wll l settle the question
tu . k? who WI . U : lf he keeps up the fool prac-
tice of asking mawkish crowds to his house, make
no distinction whatever between a red-stockinged
Cardinal with an absurd hat, an aproned Primate,
or a monkey-shaved “nonconformist.” He’ll sav
terms aU come ~ aild all exactly on the same
Point Piper Road is to have its name
changed at the whim of one of Sydney’s un-
speakably small-minded and toadying suburban
councils to “Jersey Road. Its present name
certainly isn t pretty, but it has some historic
interest; and, if a change is necessary, surely
some better substitute could be found than the
name of a bird of passage who dropped in easu-
ally to •govern” N.S.W. until he got tired of
Sydney has about ten Jersey streets, roads
and terraces already.
In other cities, when the military fall
out with the citizens and beat the latter with
then' belts, the soldiers are refused leave and are
confined to barracks. Were this rule followed
in Sydney the street-war would soon end.
* • • *
It had been hoped that the plague in
Sydney was dying out; but six new cases on 2nd
June from a wide metropolitan area, show
that the need of precaution is as urgent as ever.
1 here is a great and costly scare at Sydney’s
sea ode suburb, Manly, where one of the big hotels
has been quarantined. The plague looks likely to
be the most ruinous misfortune which has eve’
struck Australia ; and if it is not stamped out th
ruin will affect every soul in the community soono
or later. Pity that all the war-wasted cash air
‘ ithusiasm was not spent in fighting plague.
Despite the fact that the plague still con-
tinues in Sydney, very few citizens consent to
inoculation. On some days those who present
themselves don’t number a dozen. One reason
may lie that the operation takes place at the
I own Hall, and people fear that the dirt, and
“language” of the place may got into the'
systems.
LOVE’S YOUNG DREAM. — A MAORILAND IDYLL.
Ke (f ervcnlly" I Cannot marry you now, dearest/ We must wait-wait-he true to me,
SHE (despairingly): “ Yes, my oivnest; but it seems so long.”
HE : "fear not, my daling, in a year I get my old age pension I will return I swear, and
claim you."
HE KNEW.
PHFER (to Nrst applicant): “ Were you
married while on earth?"
F. A.: “I was — twice."
St. PETER : “ Walk in—you deserve it." (To
second applicant): “ And you?"
[?]A.: Sinule all my life, your Holiness."
Peter: “ Then you’ve had your good time.
What the devil do you Rant here?" (Slaves
the door viciously.)
A Bendigo shopkeeper
has lost all his romantic faith
in the block arts. A middlC-
aged gipsy lady (one of the
tribe of nuisances camped at
Eaglehawk) sauntered into
this guileless citizen’s place of
business with a proposal to
tell his fortune. Me didn’t
want to know his fortune, but
he was willing for the glib
female to show him her me-
thod of making water boil in
a tumbler. 1 laving procured
a tumbler of water, he anx-
iously watched the brown
sorceress. She put a cloth
over the top of the tumbler,
and asked for sundry pieces of
silver to “cross” the magic
cloth. The shopkeeper tod
the cloth with 235. in all, but
the water didn’t boil. Then
the lady gathered the cash
into her vast pocket and
wished her client good-bye
and good-luck. Also, she told
him he was a Good Man.
Remarkable fact that the dupe
dared to publish his foolish-
ness by giving the woman into
custody.
* » »
“ G. 8.” : Recently met
a man I hadn’t seen for 30
years. On crutches, badly-
scarred face, nose broken.
Told me his story. Got mar-
ried ; and after two years,
wife bolted with another fel-
low, leaving a child behind.
My friend tried to cut his
throat, but a blunt razor and
impertinent interference frus-
trated the effort. Resolved
to live for child’s sake. Child
died of typhoid. Took to
drink, ana went to the dogs.
Pulled together and made a
fresh start, but got broken up
in a railway smash, and was
months in hospital. Got £5OO
damages. Bought a farm and
went in for dairying, but pleuro soon finished that
up. Cleared out with £lOO, and went up country.
Got on the burst at Hay, and tried to throw him-
self into a river, but fell into a boat and broke his
leg and three ribs. Hospital once more. Dis-
charged, came down to Melbourne. Fell foul of a
Carlton “push”; got half-murdered, and had
just come out of hospital when I met him. And
some people say there’s no such thing as hard
luck !
* * * *
“If you don’t make new friends, you will
have none,”
At a small Anglican
church near Sydney a chris-
tening ceremony had recent-
ly been just about com-
pleted when a female mem-
ber of the congregation ad-
vanced to the font and
drank from a basin some of
the water which the minis-
ter had been using to
baptise the child. There
was a general titter,
whereupon the lady
looked round and audi-
bly remarked, “It was
holy water, at any rate.”
• *
“ Hen. F.” : Went
recently to view St.
Kilda (Melb.) men’s
swimming-bath. Found
open piles, men stark
naked, and a circle of
about 200 women and
girls (not more than five
males among them all)
camped all round —all
with their eyes the other
way when we looked.
Wtus told that, on the
other hand, the man
who goes within a long
way of the women’s
berths is jugged tns’an-
ter. Why this sex privi-
lege? *
While a Bingara
Chinaman was getting
married lately parties broke
into his hut and ate the
wedding-cake. John philo-
sophically remarked : “ Nex’
time, me eat’m eakoe before
get’m mallied.”
• * •
James Murphy, the Grafton youth whom
Justice G. B, Simpson sentenced to death at
Central Criminal Court, Sydney, last week for
the murder of another youth, Cyrus M'Farlane,
is but 17 years of age—which caused the Judge
to shod pitying remarks. But the death-aenteno-
mg of youths has been an early and frequent
practice in N.S.W. The first execution in
Botany Bay, 112 years ago, was that of James
Barrett, a boy of 17, and the roll of juveniles
executed runs down to the Mount Rennie holo-
caust. Murphy was recommended to mercy on
account of his youth, and his life will probably
be spared.
* * * •
Dear Bulbetw.— Let ino emphatically
contradict your correspondent's statement (8.,
2()/o/ 00) that during the past summer there wore
50 typhoid patients in Narrabri Hospital at one
time. During the past summer there were never
more than 10 cases of typhoid in the hospital at
one time. I have examined the hospital books
over the matter,—H. V. Mumfokd, Treas. and
memb. committee.
• • • •
“J.A.C.” : The humors of Sydney “sani-
tary inspection.” 1 was thrice present when the
same house was visited. The first visit was by
municipally-appointed aldermen’s nominees, who,
as the hour was but 9 a.m., kindly said they would
call again, “whip, the rooms were fixcd-n/> a bit.”
The two other “ inspections ” (by tiie police) were
equally farcical The bath-room, for instance,
was never visited.
When a young
Swedish sailor who
had fallen from aloft
was being admitted
to the Walker Con-
valescent Home,
Sydney, the other
day, the matron in-
quired what was the
matter. “I’ve got,”
said the poor mari-
ner, “a lame foot,
a stiff knee, a frac-
tured thigh, a dislo-
cated hip, a smashed
elbow, a twisted
shoulder blade —and
a broken heart! ”
* *
Scene: A Rock-
hampton police-
court. Witness,
after having had the
oath administered,
begins turning over
the leaves of the
Bible in a gingerly
fashion. Bidden at
last to kiss the book,
he replied, “All
right—when I get a
clean place!”
Query : Is an oath
binding because a
man has kissed the
particular page
containing the
story of Lot and '
his daughters?
* *
Rate-payer—
Rat-payer.
OUTSIDE THE TIVOLI.


HARDY BROS.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney.
WATCHMAKERS,
COLD and SILVER
SMITHS, and
OPTICIANS.
Illustrated
Catalogue sent
FREE "ES
on application.
New Goods . .
BY
. . Every Mail
3
as
'sT'-
mm,
-•?
9S
LARGE STOCK of LADIES’ SILVER BELTS in Cherul and other Designs. As illustrated, 78s.
Others from 68s. to 90s.
Bracing!
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
Condy’s Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The effect is magical.
BEWARE OF COLONIAL IMITATIONS.
INSIST ON BUYING " CONDY S FLUID.
The following name and address should be
at foot of label
CONOY <ft MITCHELL, 05. GOSWELL ROAD. LONDON, ENGLAND
Jos. Vardon, elected for Central District
at recent S.A. Leg. Council elections, is the
printer of the leading Tory organ, whilst Kirk-
patrick, the other member, is a director of the
Labor paper, and worked years ago under the
man who is now his colleague.
Arthur Griffith (Fellow Aust. Instit.
Patent Agents, and Member Patent Law Assoc.,
Washington, U.S.A.), 169 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Patents secured and Trade Marks registered
throughout, the world. Tel. 2898.*
The Acetylene Gas Company of Austra-
lasia Ltd., is to be congratulated on its success
at the Royal Agricultural Show, having secured no
less than twenty-five first prizes for its exhibits,
consisting of automatic, non-automatic and port-
able generators, also buggy, miner’s, stevedore’s,
bandsmen’s, firemen’s, bicycle, table, hand and
other lamps for acetylene gas. Ordinary carnage-
lamps converted into acetylene lamps; correspond-
ence invited on all outdoor and indoor lighting.
HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons-
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
“A NIGHTMARE ON THE PLAGUE-GERMS QUESTION.”
“At the Indian Famine Meeting, in Sydney Town Hall, a suggestion was
made that ladies should make attacks upon the population with collection-
boxes, and the Mayor intimated that the suggestion had in it the germ or ex-
cellence.” —Daily paper.
The end-of-the-week prowpect of the Boer
war petering out started queries as to what will
be done with the surplus (financial authorities say
there is a substantial surplus on present face-
showings) thousands contributed to N.S.W. war-
fund. Some contributors of large sums urge a
pro-rata return to the donors, while others favor
endowments of one kind or another. The Soudan
“Patriotic” Fund, which came to about £27,000,
spent only 2s. in the £, and made a refund of 18s.
in the £ to the donors. Jimmy Tyson got back
£lBOO, and others were proportionally recouped.
Many, however, paid the returned money over to
charities or objects of military enthusiasm. Tyson
handed his £lBOO to the Naval Home at Church
Hill, Sydney.
* * • •
At Singleton (N.S.W.), the other day, a
solicitor, at the Small Debts Court, made applica-
tion for a non-suit at the proper time —after plain-
tiff’s case had closed. The Bench retired to the
magistrates’-room to consider, and smin. after-
wards returned and dumbfounded the court by
announcing a verdict for plaintiff. And amongst
the beaks was a P.M. ! Defendant swallowed the
pill without a murmur, in that the verdict was for
but a fourth of the amount which plaintiff had
sworn to! The most disappointed man in the
court was plaintiff, although defendant had had
an order made against him without having a
chance to be heard !
* * * »
To gratify the vanity of the pompous
H. V. Venn, the W.A. Premier appointed
him president of a Paris Exhibition Com-
mission, and gave him carte blanche. Up to
date over £30,000 has been spent, or rather
thrown away, as the work of collecting exhibits
was entrusted to officials, not one of whom had
ever seen a bigger exhibition than the awful Cool-
gardie show. Result is that the W.A. court is in
an inextricable mess, as even the Govt, paper has
had to admit. Old Jules Joubert, who was
ignored by the Forrest Govt, throughout, smiles
with grim satisfaction. By the way, the veteran
showman is now living in Fremantle, and carries
his age remarkably well —he will be 76 this July.
* * * •
An ideal place for bank-clerks is Mudgee
(N.S.W.). April 25 was a public holiday there on
account of the local races; May 2 was ditto for
the Bligh races ; May 9 for the Rylestone races.
Rylestone is not quite 40 miles away. Then there
was May 23 for trie relief of Mafeking, and May
24 was Queen’s Birthday.
“Scotty”
again on dog-
killing :
Two years ago
I attended the
sale o£ lost dogs
on Yarra bank,
next door to Mel-
bourne morgue.
I could only do
with two dogs,
and bought
them, ss. each,
the lowest price
accepted, but
one which serves
as a registry.
There was a fine
Irish terrier put
up —no bid. I
told the inspec-
tor, who was
auctioneer, that
if he let me have
the dog I would
guarantee to
shift him to
N.S.W. at once.
He was inexor-
able, and I kick
myself for not
bidding the
crown. I be-
lieve the way of
killing them
there is beite
than the leth.
chamber, and u.
is about one-
tenth of the cost.
The dogs are put
in a heavy iron
box, the lid
closed, a catch
let go, and down
it sinks into 8 or
10ft. of water.
No howls, no-
thing visible but
a few bubbles,
and that only
for lmin. 30sec.
by my Water-
bury. Then a
windlass hauls
up the cage, a
side opens, and a
corporation dray
is the hearse.
All dogs that are
evidently value-
less or diseased
are thus treated
on arrival, the
others are sold
once a fortnight,
notice and des-
cription at the
Town Hall, right
on the pave-
ment. The mode
of “ snallling ” i 3
a running noose
at the bud of a
rod—rough and
ready, especially
rough, but fairly
merciful.
Extract
from “ letter
from the
front” pub-
lished in N.S.
Wales country
paper :
We are, of
course, under
Captain
(name mention-
ed), whom we all
look upon as an ass.
In time these letters reach the metropolitan
dailies, where such pearls of military criticism are
carefully cut out for the correspondent s sake.
* • * *
“ G. 8.” : The Mafeking exhibition of
veterans at Melbourne was a frost. The ancients
who had fought for their country 50 years
ago hardly drew a cheer. “’E fought m the
Crimea ! ” said one of the crowd, pointing to a
mummy in the coach. “ Then why ain’t edead .
was the unsympathetic answer. Why, indeed .
To “lag superfluous on the stage” naturally ex-
cites the ire of the young and lusty mummers.
• » * *
The feature of butcher “ Bill ” Buttel’s
funeral was the ponies and carriage which
Mr. Buttel always used following next
the hearse, in charge of an employe of
28 years ’ standing. The ponies, a pair formerly
driven by Lady Carington, are understood to
have been a gift from Lord Carington when
leaving N.S.W. as a mark of appreciation of the
manner in which “Butcher Bill” attended to
the appetites of Government House folk.
ROBBED OF THEIR TRUMPETS; OR,
MELBOURNE ON MAFEKING DAY.
A recent Bulletin par. anent red, white
and blue has raised something like consternation
in Melb. Jingo circles, and has led to much hunt-
ing-up of authorities. Result seems to be that
red, white and blue are utterly unknown as
British colors. A reference to the diagrams in
Webster’s Dictionary and in the Encyc. Brit.
fails to reveal them, whereas the former plainly
gives red, white and blue arranged horizontally
as the Dutch ensign, and arranged vertically as
the French (tricolor). The popularity of songs
about the red, white and blue arose, it would
seem, at the time of the Crimean war, where, of
course, the French and the British were fighting
side by side against the Russians. The songs got
so popular that an erroneous impression worked
its wav into the average English brain that
R.W. and B. were the British colors. It really
seems too amusing to be true —that the howling
Jingoes of the last few months have been, wildly
saturnalious over either the French or the Dutch
flags. A possible explanation might be found in
the fact that, before ’Ol, the flag-oifieers (admirals)
of the navy were divided into three classes—
the red, blue and white. But, in ’64, this dis-
tinction was abolished, and, since then, the white
ensign has been the one in ordinary use, the red
and the blue being reserved for extraordinary
occasions. On the whole, therefore, the Jingoes
have been following the wrong funeral.
HIS VIEW OF IT.
Beauty: “ When people see me so nicely dressed they're hound to think what
a lot of money you're making."
The Beast : “ More likely they think what a lot you cost me."
“Via ” : Be insecticide (“ Ver,” 26/5/’00).
Try compound essence of cinnamon (bought
from a reliable chemist). Sprinkle it into your
garments before putting them on, also into your
boots, and you will soon be lonely.
A riot at a wedding is un-
usual in N.S.W. A settlement
known as Mt. Vincent, near
Maitland, managed to work up
a successful one, t’other day. A
large table heavily laden with
presents, such as pounds of tea,
rice, tins of jam, &c., got its
accumulation augmented by an
unmentionable gift at the hands
of a new arrival on the scene.
He called several friends to
enjoy the joke, when up came
a relative of the bride’s. The
latter negatived all idea of the
action being funny in his eyes by
smashing the article to smither-
eens on the floor, and immediately
afterwards hitting on the jaw
the man who had brought it.
Then the row began, and when
it ceased the casualty list was
large. At the police-court two
accused were called upon to pay
fines, costs, and doctor’s fees
amounting to £26.
Maoriland Govt, proposes to
keep one telegraph-office in each chief
town open day and night. A reform much needed
in Australia.
Noteworthy that, of the N.S.W. soldiers
recently returned invalided from S’Africa, only
three —leaving out a case or two of broken bones
—were wounded. Enteric fever, rheumatism,
dysentery, &c.', accounted for all the rest. Glory 1
• * * *
When the confusion was at its height; in
Bourke-street, Melbourne, on the night officially
set apart for the celebration of the relief of
Mafeking, the crowd rushed an unhappy Chow
just in front of Cole’s. John, suspecting that
lie was to be offered as a sacrifice before the
great god Jingo, howled, whilst the push stripped
him of his trousers, and turned him loose, semi-
nude and utterly ashamed. Then the poor Pagan
was hustled up and down and gu.yed mercilessly,
and for a minute or two civilised Melbourne
revelled in the spectacle of a trouserless Chow
racing madly in front of a howling crowd. John
dashed along Elizabeth-street, and found cover in
Little Bourke, thanking all his gods for his
miserable life, Not a few of the “fair” sex took
a hand in this delectable outrage.
• • * *
“The Boer is often represented as a
manly foe, but does a manly foe pick the pocket
of a slain enemy ? ” — Age query. No, David ; he
picks out his dead enemy’s teeth and cut? off his
whiskers and sends them home to Victoria as
trophios. And then they are put into a gilt frame
and shown at a big public meeting as a curio.
The socia 1
purists of
Christchurch
(M. L.) lately
asked Justice
Minister M‘-
Gowan to see
about an alter-
ation in the
Aot whereby a
woman “in
trouble,” in-
stead of being
precluded from
instituting
court proceed-
ings against the
putative father
of her superflu-
ous mite until
after its birth,
could take ac-
tion on becom-
ing awaro of
her condition.
[This is already
the law in S.
Australia. ] The
astonished M‘-
Gowan diplo-
matically said
that it was ques-
tionable whe-
ther it would
be advisable to
have such a
liability hang-
ing over an in-
dividual for an
indefinite per-
iod. Hevaguely
said, however,
that he “ would
see about it.”
The idea of or-
dering a man
to provide for a
handful (per-
haps not his
own)six months
ahead seemed to
greatly amuse
the Minister.
By the way,
present scribe
knew in N.Q.
a very smart
Scotch sugar-
planter who,
having provid-
ed for a (white)
woman by
whom he “de-
sired to do the
fair thing,”
found on the
babe’s arrival that it was a little half-Kanaka.
• * * *
“ S.S.” : In Adelaide the crowd wrecked
the shop of a grocer who kept open on Mafeking
celebration day; in Melbourne' suburbs open
shops of various kinds provoked expressions of
hostility in the shape of bricks ; but in both cities
all the pubs were awake and doing a roaring trade
and it never occurred to anyone to heave a rock
through a bar window. An innocent paragraphist
wants to know why this was thus ?
* * * *
The N.S.W. civil servants think of pre-
senting an illuminated address to President
Kruger, in acknowledgment of his kindness in
procuring so many holidays for them. In addi-
tion to those they have already had, they ex-
pect at least half-a-dozen more, including
holidays on the cessation of hostilities, on the
conclusion of peace, and on the re-naming of
the two newly-acquired provinces ; not to mention
the departure of further “Contingents,” should
matters henceforth not go quite as smoothly as
expected.


[Forecast for ao lodefipite Period.]
Froip MARK FOY’S OBSERVATORY,
OXFORD STREET.
B<isiQ*£s “Hoe aod Clear” generally, tboCigb
“Stornjy” at certain tinjeS of tbe year.
Tbc present indication points to disturbance
“AtitOrnn FaSbiopS.”
Such Queensland papers as re-published a
paragraph concerning The Bulletin recently
printed in N.S.W. Worker, and duly withdrawn
and apologised for in that paper, will kindly now
reprint the Worker’s apology. Otherwise The
Bulletin will be compelled to send them a some-
what more formal invitation to repent their error.
Out of the 12 new appointees to N.S.W.
Leg. Council but three—Messrs. Reginald Black,
Langwell and Slattery—have had previous politi-
cal experience. Mr. Black, as a keen man of
figures and with the knack of popularising them,
will be a distinct accession to the ability of the
House. By-the-way, the organised Laborists
assert that Mr. Fred. Flowers is the only recog-
nised Laborist of the three alleged workmen’s
representatives in the just-appointed batch.
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLICH STREET, BYDNEY.
IN tHi
All Drapers Everywhere.
6L086 TEAS have w ° E^uaL
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, Jane 5, 1900.
My Dear Myee.—
“Pinafore”—and Brownlow, and Kenningham,
and all the rest of the popular C.O. Co. drew an
immense house to Her Majesty’s on Saturday;
the comfortable sort of house a manager likes,
with half the people standing. Quite a rejuvenated
d.c. In the V ,R. box a party of pretty
girls included Evelyn Martheze in black, with a
blue fillet in her hair, and Miss Wade Brown, and
Miss Winifred Austin, also in black. Mrs. Rennie
was in pink ; Mrs. J. C. Williamson in high-
necked and low-sleeved white. Every woman’s
head flowered till it was roses, roses all the way.
But do you like a long drab face—what Dickens
ealls a face in a tablespoon —to top its grey hair
with roses ? To a sensitive mind tbe sight recalls
that soulful canvas, that we all don’t buy, depict-
ing a skull with roses growing out of it.
Carrie Moore’s white satin frock is the one bold
bit of dressing. I less than admired her first
costume, a shortish cream frock, and big turned-
up hat, which seemed to be spelling Josephine
A-r-r-i-e-t. The white satin atoned for much. It
was Empire, long and flowing, with chiffon sashes
floating from the chest, and a novel slashing-up,
and letting-in of frilly chiffon over the left ankle.
Hair dressed high, with a shaky white aigrette
that had to be clung to in the dance. By the way,
to danoe in this flowing robe wasn’t easy.
Carrie gathered the tail up carefully, and let it
drop again several times before things were right.
Onee properly fixed, and the tucked (not frilled,
that s the latest) white petticoat showing, she can-
canned with Laurie and Brownlow so dashingly
that five recalls didn’t seem to satisfy the house.
I do hope Carrie Moore will not smash her health
by over-work. There are some terrible examples
of other clever little Australiennes to ponder over.
Dorothy Vane, as Little Buttercup, looks dark
and lost in a green poke-bonnet and black curls ;
so lost that you find yourself forgetting all about
her. Brownlow, as Captain Corcoran, took his
hot welcome with the same old damaging smile,
but showed a patch or two of cotton between the
velvet of his voice. Bathurst suffered from over-
done-up eyes. Little Stella Tracey’s Midshipmite
m blue and brass I wanted for my mantelpiece,
only that her genius for gesture would have upset
£ Ul ' ea - When the little voice squeaks
and flags as it does sadly sometimes —study the
play of that olever child’s hands. Like the lady
at the palmist’s, there is a future in her paw.
“Pinafore,” being short, we watched Biograph
pictures for half-an-hour. They were nearly all
warlike, wonderfully lifelike, and the only thing
wanting was a little audible swearing, and a little
wet “bluggy.” “A Skirmish with the Boers”
was almost good enough to gratify all the poor
little men whose wives wouldn’t let them go gor-
We also saw the Queen in Dublin. Was it
the Biograph whizzing? Or does Her Majesty
really bob, and bob, and bob without even stop-
ping long enough to let you see she is going to bob
again ?
The pictures remind me that a Sydney baby has
just been baptised “ Mafeking ’’—with all its life
before it.
Moreover the A.J.C. races on Saturday trotted
out a horse called Baden-Powell, but there wasn’t
patriotism enough among the other gee-gees to let
him win in a walk. Can you tell me where lies
the compliment in sharing names with a horse
that doesn’t win ?
Mrs Brough and Emma Temple watched
Saturday’s sport in twin black suits with white
vests and sailor hats. Mrs. Lovell—the Mel-
bourne girl who married the Leading Juvenile
last year’—was in a dark-blue, tailor-made, blue
toque, and white feather boa. Facially, Mrs.
Lovell might easily be mistaken for Grace Noble.
H you looked long enough you found the
whole of the Brough Co. taking a day out before
their departure for Brisbane. Which leaves Sydney
mourning, but otherwise the lawn was lonely and
unremarkable.
Edith Berry, after playing a succession of slaveys,
has got into an upper role—private secretary to
Nance O’Neil. People expecting an autograph
letter from Nance’s own little fist (noticeably
tiny for her huge proportions), have been crushed
with a note signed large and square by Nance’s
retainer.
In the green-room, the other day, I had a chat
with Miss O’Neil. She was doing Magda, and
came in holding her handkerchief to her cheek.
In the storm; and stress of her great emotions she
clenched her teeth so hard that a side-tooth broke,
and Magda added molar agony to her other mis-
fortunes., The coloured maid ran in and out with
remedies. Did you ever read “ Barbara Dering ? ”
It is a stoiw about a big, lovely American heroine,
wuose hothnilk baths and vivid hair were made
such a poem of by Amelie Rives. Nance and
her coloured Jenny bring Barbara and her black
TOud vividly before one. The actress’ skin is a
white gleam, and her pale hair shines delicately.
She wore the silk neglige of turquoise blue over
Chantilly lace, and made a slight change by
having violets in her hair. * Her hands were full
of violets, and, as they say in Bow Bells, looked
perfectly lovely. Conversationally, she doesn’t
shine. Conscious of this, perhaps, she never goes
anywhere, shuns society, and hasn’t been at a
single function—private or otherwise—since she
advented into Sydney.
A mild sensation emanates from our Premier’s
wife, who quietly refuses to be “ my-ladied.” All
her friends are requested to call her Mrs. Lyne.
Also, with marvellous courage, she alludes to
William John as plain “Mr.” A unique case of
declined, and by the woman.
A very different class of sensation agitates our
Advanoed Women. An Advanced Lady took an
Advanced Petition round an Advanced Woman’s
meeting some time ago—in Maoriland—to be
signed. Afterwards she tore off the names of
people that looked “ common ” —Mrs. Jones, Mrs.
Brown, Mrs. Smith. And now— not unnaturally,
you must confess —Mrs. Jones, Mrs. Brown and
Mrs. Smith have decided to stop Advancing—
down that sort of road, anyway.
By-the-way, I heard a woman remark the other
day, “ When I can get my dresses from Paris I
shall go in for Suffrage.” There’s a lot in that.
I’m waiting for that myself.
Miss Spence, from Adelaide, helped at a
Suffrage Meeting in Sydney last Monday. The
platform was decorated with Miss Rose Scott and
various Labor Ministers, and no better argument
could be found for the Cause than the speechifying
of the men v. the women at that meeting. Chairman
Began spoke; members O’Sullivan and McGowen
meandered, and sometimes shouted, and some-
times roared ; and member Thomas boggled into
an extraordinary bye-way about the father of the
Premier of N.S. W.
The women were a distinct improvement. Miss
Spence, a white-haired old lady, wearing a quiet
black bonnet, black silk cape and skirt, brightened
up her remarks with a twinkling eye and a little
bit of Scotch in her voice. To my mind, she
appeared neither as an orator nor an advanced
thinker, but then perhaps it was not the time for
anything of that sort, and considering the audience
simple sentiment was the most appropriate,
Simple sentiment, therefore, Miss Spence gave
them. Sweet-faced Rose Scott caused the man in
the gallery to titter over her careful enunciation
of Sir William Lyne, K-C-M-G, but the earnest-
ness and charm of this speaker are certainly
N.S.W.’s trump cards in the game of Suffrage.
“Justice” was often referred to at that meet-
ipg- Let me be' just. Walt Whitman says,
“ Each man for himself, and every woman for
herself is the byeword of immortality.” So let
mo put my own case, and be just to me. I went
to that meeting wanting to be convinced. If Suf-
frage is going to help this unfortunate old world
along, I am eager for Suffrage to be accomplished.
lam simply looking, for it. I was longing to be
convinced that the elite of women were equal to
the elite of men, as rulers and law-makers. But
the elite of men stayed away, so there was no
chance of comparison. I heard—from Mr. Alfred
Allen—that Miss Rose Scott was equal to, or
better than, the larrikin leaning against the post
outside. Do you think I wanted to be told that ?
That Queen victoria proved what women could
do as law-makers. How much Lex est rex, rex non
est lex was naturally forced upon my considera-
tion. That —(from Mrs. Young of 8. A. —in green
tailor-made) —one’s husband can think one a very
good woman even if one does vote. That—(from
Miss Golding)—the mind of man is unknowable
to man, and how much more is the mind of
woman unknowable ! Putting it all together, a
beginner, like myself, was just puzzled, and came
away as much beginner as ever.
Once a thin, quiet, weird-eyed old man near the
front, rose, and held up his arm patiently. I did
so want to know what that man wanted, but the
speeches went on, and at last he sat down
patiently and stood up no more. Perhaps he
wanted to know, you know ; like myself. Another
dash of color was lent by a lady-speaker who
paused. In the pause I distinctly heard a well-
known M.P. breathe half a sentence, not from
notes, but looking straight in front of himself as
he did so. The lady-speaker jumped at the sen-
tence, and went straight on to the end of her
speech. Curious, was it not ?
Invitations to the Evening Party at Govt.
House came out last week, and I am wondering if
a certain pathetic query in a Sunday paper is
apropos. “Ruby” writes that her arms are “a
bright red color, and covered with long black
hairs ! ” She wants to wear low sleeves. What
is she to do ? Poor Ruby ! I should think one
could only recommend a cage.
Mafeking finally relieved Sydney at the Ass.
Ground last Wednesday, when I don’t know how
many thousand school-children promenaded and
masqueraded, and marched and sang and shouted,
and wore themselves and their teachers out with
excitement. The affair was a huge success,
smiled on by the Governor, Ladies Mary Lygon
and Susan Gilmour —a bright-faced likeness of
Lady Mary, Mayoress Harris and 30,000 others.
The only cross on the celebration was not intended
for a subtle sympathetic link with Mafeking,
although it might have been taken that way—by
people who had dined. Hunger beset teachers
and children, and the preparations for feeding
them were not as comprehensive as they might
have been, and mixing with the crowds of little
ones returning at dusk one might have heard
many pitiful complaints, fully endorsed by weary
teachers and mothers taking home the celebrators.
Elsie Hall’s concert last week was chiefly
remarkable for the fact that the pianiste wore red,
and entertained twenty wounded sojers with
Chopin’s “ March Funebre. ” It didn’t occur to
Elsie till ten minutes before “Funebre” was due
that she might be opening old wounds, as it were.
She went through, but her nervousness crept into
her playing not a little.
Another concert was Miss Alice Hollander’s,
her second, given for folks who couldn’t get in to
the first. No. 2 was uncrowded. The young
contralto owns a telling organ, but it is much
harder to be a young contralto than a young
soprano, don’t you think ? A soprano can tra-la-la
things over, but contralto songs demand such a
flow of soul to give meaning to the bellow, that a
girl of seventeen is always just a little tame.
It wasn’t at this concert, but another crowded
one near it, that a dog sneaked up to the front
row and got violently trodden on. He set up a
howl, and the people at the back mistook the
sound for the fiddling, and clapped enthusiasti-
cally. Rather hard on musical instincts, that sort
of thing !
The Dog Show proper was opened by His Ex.
and aide Harris last Thursday. The opening was
brief, and after a hurried rush alongthe canines, the
vice-regal party disappeared. Mayoress Harris
and a few others took tea in the tea-room. The
party included a society bride who was contacted to
quarantine lately, and who described the tea-table
down there so vividly that we could all see the
pound of butter on a plate, jam in tins, and
broken whisky bottle full of dead flowers. It i$
not malapropos to mention plague and dogs toge-
ther, as tne Melbourne dogs all stayed away this
year on account of Sydney bubonics. Conse-
quently the show was smaller than usual, but there
were plenty of dogs to lose your heart to —if you
prefer the genuine article.
Here is an S.M. Herald advt. :
A LADY of extensive means is eager to Adopt a
Child of either sex. The baby must be born
between June and the end of August next, the mother
must be tall, dark, and of Irish extraction. Open one
week. —Mother, Herald office.
The booking of the little one to arrive, and the
conditions as to mother’s height, complexion, and
nationality, seem to imply a desired resemblance
to someone else, and give the impression that the
advt. is the foundation of a London Journal
romance in real life.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The Japs, have been greatly to the fore lately.
Poor little men ! they hide a lot of their time
’cause patriots will carry them on their shoulders.
Some of the officers, with blood blue as the sky,
I’m told, and a thorough knowledge of English,
went nearly mad when frenzied fat-heads besought
them saying, ‘ You let me cally you, me gibbit
sick-a-penny ! ’
“ One pocket-hero was enquiring from door to
door, in Collins - street, t’other day, for the
‘Princess Ida Club.’ At last, he came to a tea-
room, where the nice girls in charge took him in
custody, and told him * men ’ weren’t allowed at
the classic haunt where he fain would be. He
laid his hand on his sword and looked fierce,
but they coaxed him to stay to tea and cream
SufFs, and no doubt Mariana, of the ‘Princess Ida
lub,’still listens longingly for his approaching
trot-trot.
) “Jap. crows sang a war-song at the Exhibition
t’other night. Exactly like a corroboree chant, it
brightened things a bit. Before that the audience
spent its time investigating outside rows, just as
at a recent Town Hall sing-song. To the Exhi-
bition concert the Hi-Yei’s professional funny
man came early and drew weird music from a
horn. He put a Melb. newspaper (upside-down)
on the floor, and affocted to read music from its
pages as he played. Then he fixed it on the top-
mast, so to speak, and strained his eyes aloft. He
was a pretty little person, and he and his mates
trot round town hand-in-hand so guilelessly that
one wants to buy them chocolates, and say ‘ God
bless the innocents ! ’
“ Western District eligibles—some of them are
very eligible indeed—are one by one submitting
their necks to the yoke. The latest engagement
is that of the wealthy Mr. Manifold, whose
beautiful home lies a few miles out of Camper-
down. The tastes of the bride prospective are the
opposite of horsey, a fact which suggests that the
affections of the up-to-date sporting man are not
always captured by the up-to-date young sports-
woman.
“ The London policeman, ’tis said, is the guide,
philosopher and friend of mankind. So far, our
own boys of the baton-brigade, though right
enough, are not too sweet to live. T’other day,
when those wedding carriages (one of the hand-
some Bayles, of Toorak, had married a pretty
daughter of Dr. Gray, of Collins-st.) couldn’t get
past, the beauteous best man with his halo of 'fair
curls, lovely grey suit, tricolor in button-hole and
palpably tight boots, dismounted and begged a
constable’s advice. Despite this vision, plus
glimpses of palpitating bride, blushing bridegroom
and maids in misty white-and-azure, there was
nothing of the ‘By my word the Bonnie Bird in
danger shall not tarry r spirit in Blue Coat’s cold
reply.
The new Mrs. Bayles is one of the charming
Gray sisters, another of whom married a nephew of
the late Salmon Wilson, while a third is the wife
of a local barrister. Some time back the bride of
to-day, her sisters and cousins launched into busi-
ness on their own as society milliners, and their
firm still goes strong.
“Pretty nurses and other flirtatious types of
femininity enjoyed themselves while the Mafeking
riots raged. Ministering angels in crisp caps and
pinnies were in fascinating force on conspicuous
balconies and received ovations, notably from
“ proceshing ” medical students, who further took
innocent glee in flaunting human bones and squirt-
ing onlookers in the eye. 1 How many have you
got in the tank at present, Slasher?’ shouted a
bystander. ‘ Upwards of seventy ! ’ yelled young
Sawbones in reply. What worse could befall a
poor human husk, once the tenement of love,
grief and self-sacrifice, than to wobble in a pickle-
tub at the mercy of these callous Sangrados ?
“ A Geisha picnic happened out Heidelberg
way on Queen’s Birthday, and went off joyously
till night came, the dew darkened the earth, and
sitting out in the moonlight was rendered a rheu-
matic affair. At length, when last train had
streamed away to Melbourne, a great dread seized
the drivers of the picnic-drags, and they refused
very respectfully to take their tender young
charges home through the impenetrable fog.
There were female shrieks, arguments, inquiries,
exhortations, but at length the party resigned
itself to a night of ghost-stories around the big log
fires. At seven a.m. the drivers harnessed up,
and took the picnickers home to their distracted
relatives. Probably some of the more youthful
Geishas are still doing penance for the misad-
venture, which gave a chill to many maternal
souls.
“ Prof. Marshall-Hall capitulated so far to the
f races on the occasion of the students’ concert last
'uesday night as to sport a dainty button-hole,
probably presented by one of his adoring flock.
During the influx of a mob of swallow-tails and
chiffons after the first number, the swarthy genius
beat his familiar tattoo on the pulpit-rail. Catch-
ing sight of a few fair fiddlers giggling, he smiled
blackly himself, and changed the movement to tne
alleyro appassionato till the last shining shirt-front
and bit of chiffon had shuffled hastily into place.
The students of the Conservatorium are a brow-
beaten, hungry-eyed, earnestly-endeavoring col-
lection, plain of face and figure, indifferent to
dress, shutting their eyes to all but their art and
their master. Miss Ethel Bergin was the one
snappy frocker and soulful singer of the crowd.
She has dimples and a soul—a valuable combina-
tion.
“ A gay green-red-and-white flag waves on the
cards just issued by the versatile dowager of
‘ Cliveden ’ for an At Home, on June 12, when the
Dante Society is to be entertained. The thought-
ful hostess has had English and Italian cards
printed for the occasion, and gives the foreign
element the compliment of an invitation in the
tuneful tongue.
“S’rupert Clarke is back again in Melbourne,
but the violet-eyed wife of the Vic. baronet is ex-
tending her long stay in Europe.
“ Mrs. Kate Fraser, the lady who shot her hus-
band by accident, as a jury put it, made applica-
tion last week for a Melbourne hotel license. The
police offered a feeble resistance to her claim, on
the strength of an allegation that she had once
brought a revolver into play in N.S.W. or there-
abouts, but Mrs. F. emphatically denied connec-
tion with any firearm, save the one that sent a
bullet, by accident, into Dr. Fraser’s brain.
Police having nothing further to say on this
matter, there was no legal reason why Mrs.
Fraser should be prohibited from serving her
country with drinks. Lawyer Gillott incidentally
stated that his fair client had obtained a ‘ protec-
tion order ’ under the Marriage Act, so there was
no fear of her much-damaged husband coming to
live on the licensed premises.
“ At the Royal the ‘ Ladder of Life ’ still keeps
its end up, thanks to its fund of humor in connec-
tion with Highlanders’ legs. Eugenie Duggan,
as a hunted Nihilist, sports an artistic blend of
blue and purple. This sounds conspicuous in the
wearer’s risky position, but of course even a con-
spirator on trial for her life understands that to
look nice is her wisest course—always providing
that her judges are mere men. When woman
gets her rights and mounts the Bonch, she-culprits
will smart every time unless they’re dowdy, flat-
chested and frumpish. Miss Duggan’s voice
tones-down wonderfully. Nowadays it doesn’t
drive hearers to repent of their sins by calling-up
ideas of the “ Awful Trump of Doom.’’
“ In the ‘ Professor’s Love Story,’ Arnold as a
middle-aged Scotch scientist, quite winsome
enough to account for his popularity with petti-
coats, is a male edition of Miss Eloise Juno.
Melbourne ’Varsity and affiliated institutions,
by the way, rejoice in a pair of Scawtch bachelor
professors, neither of them, ‘ ower young to marry
yet.’ One of these unappropriated gems, like
Arnold in the play, is blessed with a guardian
sister. They also resemble Barrie’s hero in their
attraction for the sex, especially widows. Our
widower-professors, too, have grown to rather like
the aspect of a few weeper bonnets in their lec-
ture-rooms.
“ Dot Frederic, as the fair-haired little secre-
tary who tangles book-worn Goodwillie in her
harmless toils, blooms, to begin with, in a frock,
blue as her eyes, with natty out-door cape to
match. In the wheat field she completes the un-
doing of the simple scholar by dint of white
muslin frock and rustic hat decked with poppies,
cornflowers, and wheat-ears. The Professor, sad
to say, looks donkeyfied when he grows skittishly
sentimental and plays ‘ peek-a-boo ’ with his Lucy
among the sheaves. True to life, nevertheless.
When a staid Scotch by terian hereabouts married
his second wife the other day, and took her
honeymooning to a mountain hotel, he "cooed
every morning at breakfast, ‘ Hatty, tak’ a
patty !” His employes refuse to believe this
anecdote of their dour chief, but it’s true.
“A snug audience welcomed Barrie’s ‘Profes-
sor’ to Melbourne. Lady Madden’s nieces, the
Rowan sisters, were there, one in white with
gloomy tips in her hair, t’other in black with
scarlet geraniums nestling behind her ear. These
young ladies, like their cousins, are blessed with
shoulders of the whitest and a share of the Stephen
good looks. Bridesmaids, connected with the
smart St. Kilda Gibson-Currie wedding, were also
on view, while Kenningham and a lady occupied a
box.
x ours affectionately,
GOUKI-GOULL.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
Fox* the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling ewid soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLAND’S
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
Lord Bacon Said —
“Soldiers in peace are like chimneys in summer.”
The kidneys are the human chimney, from which
poisonous gases escape if the kidneys are not filled
up, imflamed, and impaired. Fortunately we do
not always have war in which to use our soldiers,
but a war is continually waging against the kidneys
They are fighting for us night and day ; trying to
carry out the poisons as fast as they accumulate.
Consequently, they must be given prompt
assistance at their very first call for it. Thousands
have found Warner’s Safe Cure promptly restore
the kidneys to a healthy condition ; in fact, now
Warner’s Safe Cure is known as “The Great
Kidney Remedy.” If your back feels heavy or
aches, if there are chills and lassitude, loss of flesh,
indigestion, failure of eyesight, pallor, swelling of
eyelids or the body, you may know that the
kidneys are calling for assistance.*
Dr. M. MACKENZIE’S
THROAT LOZENGES
Are being Imitated.
Be sure that the address on the Label
is Leadenhall-st., London.
Sole Agent for
Australasia :
C. E. Newman
King-St., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Grand Master A. J. Peacock (Vic.) will be
39 and Ex-Premier Braddon (Tas.) will be 71 on
Monday June 11.
Sporting men Wallace and Wilson raced
each other into eternity, and the ex-owner of
champion Carbine won by half-a-day.
Premier Forrest’s sudden climb-down over
Federation was, it is said, prompted by a burning
desire to become the next occupant of Govt.
House, Perth.
Cape Premier Schreiner is married to the
sister of F. W. Reitz, formerly President of
the Orange Free State, and now State Secretary
to the Transvaal.
Mark Lemon, son of the well-known Lon-
don Punch editor and friend of Charles Dickens,
is now a clerk in the office of Nesbit, Q. 0., m
Adelaide. He was once a guardsman.
Mrs. Kate Fraser, heroine of the St.
Hilda shooting sensation, has taken out a license
for a pub. in Queen-street, Melbourne. Ihe
wonder is that the lady did not take to the boards
instead of the bar. She should have happened m
melodrama.
An Australian parent, proud of her
relationship to the reliever of Ladysmith, named
her son (who arrived most opportunely) after the
tardily-victorious general. But she forgot the
significance of her married name, and the
youngster staggers under the name Redvers
Puller Shute.
Postmaster-General Crick is the only
member of the present New South Wales Minis-
try who has not entered his name on Government
House visiting book. For 30 years of his political
life Parkes declined to enter his name there,
though while a Minister he visited Government
House on official business.
William Bibby, who so successfully
developed the splendid property of the Australian
Raub gold-mining co., Singapore, died recently,
aged 63. He had for over 40 years been a miner
and came to Australia when 21. Before taking
over the Raub management he was at Croydon,
Q. As a mining-organiser Bibby was a man in a
thousand.
THE LATE W. R. WILSON.
From a speech by W.A. Premier Forrest
on 19th May :
In the recent election campaign some of the candidates
had taken special pains to deny him. W lien Peter was
asked if he knew the Saviour he replied, “ I know not the
Man.” So it was with some of the aspirants to Parlia-
mentary honors —they knew not the man.
In same speech the Coolgarrlie Water-Works were
described as a “ God-like scheme ! ”
RESPECT—OR INDIFFERENCE.
MRS O’R EGAN: "Sure I don't know phwat can
huv come over me mahn. He hasn’t so much
as shtruck me this two week. He must be in
tow wiu another woman.”
The ex-Queen of Hanover is a year older
than Queen Victoria. Monarchy seems to be the
healthiest occupation in the world for a woman.
The ex-Empress of the French had only 17 years
of it, but at the age of 74 she is still feeling the
good effects.
“F.”: Wrong to say that Bertram Mac-
kennal had no honor in his own country. Say,
rather, no honor from his own countrymen, who
had no considerable market for his art. Wasn’t it
in Melbourne that Sarah Bernhardt raved about
the young man’s genius ?
Hon. A. J. Gould, M.L.C., is entitled to
three N.S.W. State railway-passes. One is for
life for long service in the Assembly, one as a
member of the Upper House, and one as a mem-
ber of Great Cobar Copper syndicate, which pays
the railways £30,000 a year in freights.
A prominent Cornstalk, returned from a
S’Africa trip, says he has an unbounded admira-
tion for Tommy Atkins and the British Artillery,
which seems to be absolute perfection. The
officers, however (again excepting the artillery
and engineers), are, for the most part, a set of
vapid asses, and utterly devoid of consideration
for their men.
Should J. P. Abbott resign the Speaker-
ship of N.S.W. Assembly—he says he doesn’t
mean to—the coveted chair will go—judging by a
careful counting of noses during last week—to F. B.
Suttor. Mr. Suttor held Ministerial office 23
years ago, and has had a quarter of a century’s
Parliamentary experience. He is a N.S. VV. native,
and 01 years of age.
The cabled intimation that Fowell-Buxton,
the unutterably dreary bore who figureheaded S. A.
for three years, has denounced Kingston for his
attack on Way, C.J., will surprise no one.
During the brewer-evangelist’s last year of office
he and Kingston (then Premier) were hardly on
speaking terms. The reason of the estrangement
is another story—a story of petticoats.
Editor Bulletin. —I have myself on
several occasions seen the Gladesville patient,
Cress well, when before the Royal Commission,
and I know that he is most anxious to be set at
liberty. He will not, he says, answer certain
questions while in the Asylum. He is not a
lunatic although to a certain extent “ soft,” and
some of the doctors think he would improve out of
detention. —I. B. C. H.
Australia’s old friend, Pepper, the “ghost”
showman of yore, was responsible for Matthew
Arnold’s repudiation of the title of Professor,
when he took the Chair of Literature at Oxford.
It was the time when “Professor” Pepper’s
Ghost flourished as an entertainment for children
(and parents) at London Polytechnic, and
the scholar said—“ Professor Pepper—Professor
Arnold ! No, thank you ! ”
Lieut. J. C. M‘Kenna, in a letter dated
Mafeking, March 26, published in a Melb. paper,
says :
Still beleaguered and happy. When we are to be re-
lieved goodness knows. I don’t want to be relieved ; I
never had a jollier time in my life.
Which reads curiously, in view of what we have
read about the dreadful distress of the garrisons
n the three besieged S’African towns.
The interest taken by half-a-dozen mem-
bers in J. P. Abbott’s prospective resignation of
N.S.W. Speakership is more than pathetic. Need-
less to say over a score of members are prepared
to accept the office, but half-a-dozen stand ready
to demand it. One of these latter indirectly
eulogises his fitness by impressing that the Speaker
should be a man of large independent means and
with capacity to revive the traditional hospitalities
of the position.
Nathan Young, alleged nephewof themany-
wifed Brigham, has turned up in the Old Men’s
Home, at Parramatta, after nearly 50 years’ gold-
fossicking in various parts of Australia. Nathan
was present when the mob murdered prophet Joe
Smith in Carthage. He afterwards shared in the
war between North and South and, without know-
ing it, entitled himself to a pension of £3 a month.
This pension he now, at the age of 71, goes to the
States to recover.
Every now and then the cable-liar tells us
that another brother of ex-President Steyn has
been captured, or shot, or something, until the
size of the Steyn family becomes as big a puzzle as
the identity of the particular Botha who falls into
the hands of the British at irregular intervals.
But both names are as common among the Boers
as are Brown and Robinson in England ; a list of
the first draft of prisoners to St. Helena contained
20 Steyns and 18 Bothas.
This war may yet, even in the hour of
triumph, prove the downfall of Cecil Rhodes. It
has inspired a national desire for the man’s past
history, and his enemies are rising to the occasion
by publishing pamphlets containing extracts from
his speeches in the days when he prated glibly
about “eliminating the Imperial factor from South
African politics.” That was when the great Cecil
wanted a free hand to enslave and apprentice and
compound the natives of the North.
Editor Howard Willoughby, of the Akgus,
thus replies to critics who have said to him that
the tone of the paper has not improved since the
days of “used to was“l don’t edit
the paper to please the Melbourne
Club, but to suit the suburban grocer.
The approval of superior persons is
gratifying, but it is the penny of
the average man that pays'. The
of my policy is its success.”
Hence the scareheads, the booming of
popular movements, the nursing of
the prejudices of the householder with
the cast-iron ornamentation on his
verandah, the flattering of the small
farmer, and—the increase of the
Argus circulation by thousands and
the feverish vexation of David Svme.
’Tis said that Willoughby has erected
over his bed the portrait of a sleek grocer,
aproned and side - whiskered, witli a bronze
aureole (the edge of a penny) round his head,
serving a mall girl at a counter with half-a-
pound of brown sugar. He says his prayers
to his apotheosised grocers.
The expression, “Journeyman Judge,’’
to effectively used by Kingston, Q.C., lately
in England as to have apparently caused the
Times .to reconsider its approval of the tem-
porary tenure for members of the pro-
posed Imperial Council of Appeal, ap-
pears to have been first used by
Purves, Q.C., at an indignation
meeting of the Vic. bar called to
protest against the appointment of
Wrenfordsley (since C.J. of Westralia) as
acting-Judge. Wrenfordsley was then carpet-
bagging it in a judicial sense about all the pro-
vinces. He took the phrase in very good part;
in fact, at a Trades Hall Council affair some time
after lie justified his claim to speak by the fact
that he was a duly-qualified “ journeyman Judge.”
Melbourne Akg us, mentioning the fact
that the late Donald Wallace was a member of
two separate Australian Parliaments—those of
Queensland and Vic. —claims it as “a unique dis-
tinction.” No such thing. Dr. Nicholson was
Speaker in N.S.W. Assembly and afterwards
Speaker in Q. Assembly. John Douglas, now at
Thursday Island, was M.L.A. of N.S.W., and
afterwards M.L.A. and Premier in Q. Arthur
Hodgson sat in the Parliaments of N.S.W. and
Q. ; John Hurley held a seat in the Parliaments
of both these provinces, and many others might
be cited to similar effect.
“F.” : Knew Ben Bridge, the horse-
stealer, in the Gulf before ho broke gaol at Burke-
town. He was the most daring horseman I ever
saw. he was one of the kindest men to
dumb animals. Of course he was up North under
an assumed name ; and when the police identified
him, he made a desperate attempt to escape by
swimming the Gregory, but was eventually
caught. He said afterwards that he had given up
horse-stealing, and that if the police had only left
him alone he would have been all right. He had
been on the station six months and was living very
quietly when arrested. He was taken to Burke-
town, and once more escaped by firing the lock-
up. Most people were rather sorry to hear of his
re-capture.
John Meagher, one of the recently ap-
pointed Cornstalk Ms. L.C., once opposed Frank
Suttor for Bathurst, and was beaten. He was (and
is) popular, but-is not a platform orator. In his open-
ing speech Suttor anticipated that he would be at a
disadvantage with an orator of Mr. Meagher’s
calibre. When his turn came Meagher disavowed
oratory, and to illustrate his meaning related an
anecdote. A priest happened to meet a boy, and
enauired if he said his prayers. The boy promptly
replied that “ he didnT, but that his brother was
a divil at them.” “ And,” continued the candi-
date, “it’s my brother that’s the divil at oratory.”
The late A. H. Jacob, Chairman of Com-
mittees of N.S.W. Leg. Council, was on one occa-
sion reported to have been killed by a fall from his
horse. As the Council was about to adjourn out
of respect for the dead legislator’s memory, Mr.
Jacob stalked in to his accustomed seat. His
biography had meanwhile been extensively pub-
lished. The late W. H. Suttor, of Bathurst, also
had the honor of an ante-mortem biography, his
family receiving many letters and wires of con-
dolence. Another prominent man on the Hunter
had a S.M. Herald column given him in the
nature of a biography while he was hale and
hearty. He demanded and obtained £lO from the
Herald people for expenses involved in answering
wires ana generally contradicting the obit.
“ Tangata-mata ” : The future Premier of
Maoriland is not hard to pick. Big Mackenzie,
therugged, blundering, but able Minister of Lands,
has been lying at his home in the South Island for
weeks past, and it is feared he will never again
take office. Seddon has also been burning the
candle at both ends. The old strength that used
to enable him to strap himself to the box-seat of
a coach and sleep in that position for hours as he
bumped over a rough road, and yet be ready for
midnight deputations (whilst his cursing, sleepy
secretaries could hardly stand), is gone, tie &nd
Mackenzie promise to be listed with the rest of
M.L. political martyrs that have succumbed in
harness—Atkinson, Ballance and many others.
Meanwhile the whole burden and heat is falling
upon Joseph Ward, the resuscitated one, and he
holds up the whole log well. He is just now
Colonial Secretary, Postmaster-General, acting-
Premier, Minister of Railways, and a host of other
things besides. He has become immensely popular
with all classes, and Seddon affectionately alludes
to him as ‘ My boy, the coming Premier.” Ward
is undoubtedly the strong man of the Seddon
party, and six months hence will see him on top.
Premier Seddon’s illness is the natural
result of overdoing it. The working machine that
was wont to rouse up his private secretary at 2.30
a.m. to start work, and leave him worn out and
go off cheerily on a long railway journey with two
fresh secretaries to cope with the rush, has got
weak at the bearings. For years his life has been
nothing but a whirling succession of tremendous
bursts of graft and banquets. He roared and
raged through Parliament, carrying all before him
like a mighty cyclone ; while awav in the recesses
of the big departmental building he did the work
of two absent Ministers as well as bis own, and
then fought a big election and pulverised more
thoroughly than ever the plutocratic Tones who
reckoned that the Reaction must be due. Then
came the plague-scare, and King Dick hurried
north to superintend the precautionary measures
that were being slowly wrangled over. When he
arrived the thing began to move, and the people
who objected to being put to trouble and expense
to cope with a disease which had not appeared
were suddenly squelched and trampled underfoot.
And now the giant has had three paralytic attacks
that have been repulsed, but show distinctly that
he is worn out, and that in a little while Pre-
mier Seddon will be added to the number of strong
men that Maoriland has ruthlessly used up in
shaping her destiny as the leading democratic
community of the world.
Adye Douglas was 85 on May 31. Sat
down with Henry Parkes in ’6l to “ dream ’’about
federal Australia. “ Practical ” politicians called
it a dream for over 20 years after. Douglas has
a big chance to see it a reality.
Strange that some of the obituary notices
of Donald Wallace forgot to mention the Mel-
bourne Cup victory which caused him to become
the owner of Australia’s immortal horse. It
was in ’BB that Mentor won the Cup for genial
Donald, beating the big up-country horse Tradi-
tion. At the same meeting Carbine, t en fresh
from Maoriland, had been jockeyed out of the
Derby by a short head, and when Carbine and Tra-
dition were presently offered for sale Donald
Wallace and his jockey, Mick O’Brien, were of
different minds about the business prospects of
the two cracks. Mick, having a great opinion of
Mentor, reckoned that Tradition, who had run a
close race in the Cup, would be a good invest-
ment, so he formed a syndicate of three to buy
the big ’un. Tradition fetched 3050 guineas at
auction, arid proved to be no good whatever.
Donald Wallace paid 3000 guineas of his Mentor
winnings for Carbine, and won more than
10 times that amount in stakes alone with
the matchless galloping machine. He didn’t lay
himself out for big handicap coups, he simply let
the horse go for big stakes, handicap or otherwise,
and the horse rarely failed to beat the field,
whereas a tricky owner would probably have con-
verted the same generous goer into a rogue by
running him “ stiff.” It was a good day for pun-
ters when Mentor put the Melb. Cup stake to the
credit of the man who subsequently bought Car-
bine. Mentor was the last to leave the saddling*
paddock. Donald Wallace and bis beautiful
young wife laughed at Mick O’Brien as he told
them to consider the race all over, but the san-
guine jockey said again, “ This is the happiest day
of your lives.” And he was a true prophet. Mrs.
Wallace died before next Cup-day came round,
and when Carbine won the £lO,OOO stakes in 00,
with more than lOst. on his back, poor Mick
O’Brien was too far gone in consumption to be
there.
THE LATE DONALD WALLACE.
What has become of the great Mr. Winston
Churchill? But a few short months ago we had
him every morning for breakfast in the cable —his
exploits, his marvellous escapes, his daring, his
opinions, his idea of what the Generals ought to
do, &c. And now he seems to have been suddenly
turned off at the meter in the full flush of his
management of the S’African war. AVhy is this ?
Can it be jealousy on Roberts’ part ? or was he
cut off from this end—by a combination of Aus-
tralian editors who had grown weary of the
youth’s exasperating monopoly of the military
limelight ?


Wolfe’s Schnapps
The NATIONAL DRINK of AUSTRALASIA.
It possesses TONIC properties that healthfully stimulate without
exciting.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
WATSON’S WHISK Y.
Aboriginalities.
“Lar. They handle strychnine care*
lessly in West Queensland. Have often seen the
“dog-stiffeners” start out on their rounds with
baits for the dingoes—in a leather wallet which
also held the man’s tucker for the day (wrapped in
paper if the hut-cook had time, if not, rolled in a
handkerchief and pitched in alongside the baits).
Given a hot day, melting grease and a soluble
poison in same bag, and things are liable to get
“a bit thick.” One old “stiffener” was once
found by station hands lying on the ground and
twitching like a dog with a bait inside nim. They
gave him a mouthful of tobacco-water, tied his
feet together with a saddle-strap and hoisted him
up to the limb of a brigalow ; then they twisted
his body round and round till he vomited ; and in
a couple of days the patient was little the worse.
A couple of months later, however, same man was
found stiff and stark at the edge of a billabong to
which he had crawled for a drink ; he had tom the
ground up all round him in his agony. They gave
what poor Paddy had left of his last lunch to a
dog they wanted to kill—and i'„ was dead in
15 min.
* • * *
“A. 0.”: For the information of “R.W.S.”
(B. 12/5/’00): Take a solid junk of deal, or any soft,
dry wood, and shape a groove on one side of it
about 7in. long. Place junk in a firm position,
and, with a stick of hard, dry wood, endeavor to
deepen that groove in the quickest time on record.
Writer has obtained fire by this method in under
smin. By rubbing two sticks together you would
probably get results when you would be too old to
appreciate them.
• * • *
“X.” : Re making fire with sticks (B.
12/5/’00). The whole seoret lies in the choice of
sticks. A blackfellow will sometimes have to
hunt fax and wide to find exactly suitable pieoes,
and, without them, he will not make an attempt
which he knows will fail. All L have seen chose
two pieces of hardwood —one partially rotted and
the other sound—and in a few minutes, by rapidly
twirling the sound stick in a hole in the decayed
one, heat and smoke were produced in the fine
THE RULE OF THE ROAD.
Constable: “ When yez ride up strate ye must kape to the left av yez; whin yez come back agen
yez kape to the left jusht the same—d’ye moind phuat Oi say ?”
Fair Cyclist: “ Well, then, which is the right side of the road?”
Constable : Whoi, the left av it, of coorse — wasn’t Oi telling yez /”
disintegrated particles of the latter. Even then
some considerable knack is needed to fan up the
smouldering dust into flame.
• * * *
“Wat”: When there was a missionary-
station for abori B i„e s .tier's Island, Hervey
island for a change): “Our fadder which art in
heaben ! Budgery fellow me; you gib it bit o’
bacca.” It was always evident to mf the blacks
had not the faintest idea of what the missionaries
were trying to teach them.
3 ° %
„ . *
“K.S. :Be animal chivalry—or, rather,
affection. What about the brush turkey, which,
having laid her eggs in the mound and covered
them up, troubles no more about them and wouldn’t
know her own chicks if she met them ? Fortun-
ately for the youngsters, they can get their own
living as soon as hatched, and can run like the
wind from danger. I have found as many as 100
eggs in one nest, and, as one bird can’t have laid
all these, there must have been an arrangement
between the hens to lay in a common nest.
• * • *
Dear Bulletin, —“ Synd’s ” assertion (8.,
26/5/’00) that “the N.S. Wales cockie sends
his youngsters to school to do the 70 —or
even 140—days for the year straight off,”
is pure bunkum. If the cockie were to send
his youngsters for the 140 €ays “straight
off ” and then keep them at home, he would still
be liable for the second half-year ; and, as for the
70 days assertion—in writers school (all farmers’
youngsters) the enrolment for quarter ending
March was 24, average attendance 16'3. Present
quarter, enrolment 27, average will be about 18.
According to “Synd,” average for March would
have been 24, and for current quarter 27. Yet
every pupil attended at least two days in every
week. —Dominie.
• • • *
“ Tell ” : A big iguana used daily to
steal eggs from my hens’ nest. Killed it at last
and on opening it found inside two unbroken eggs.
Another time killed a big carpet-snake near
nest of brooding hen and found in him three eggs
which had been purloined from the nest. These
were put back and in due time hatched out with
the rest. Those three chicks have early entered
on a “ career of adventure ” !
* * • •
“Cecil F.” : Re the hatching of reptilian
eggs (B. 5/5/’OO and 26/5/’00). From Borneo I once
sent to London 120 eggs from the Bahalla bird ■
nest caves, supposed to be the produce of the
edible-nest-building swallow. But upon arrival
the packet was found to contain about 50 young
lizards, some of which were still alive. As em-
bryo swallows were found in some of the unbroken
eggs, I could only conclude that through laziness
the “ boy” who had gathered the eggs for me had
made up the required number with lizards’ eggs.
Turtle and crocodile eggs, by the way, in tropical
countries need no artificial heat to cause vivifiea-
tion ; in fact, croc.’s eggs taken from the ovaries
of the parent have been successfully hatched by
me. ,
* 9 • *
“J.G.'’: Re the lyre-bird’s mound: The
heap is composed of earth and vegetable substances
which “heat” in decomposing and also foster the
growth of worms and grubs. The male bird, when
hungry, scatters the earth and feeds, occasionally
Rowing a worm to hisi mate ; but the mound i's
“HO”- “ W I ” IQ/fi/WU
1 1 ’ ' * V 3
P oughvyomen are common, but the single-furrow
plough 18 never USed out back ‘ . fl A ur , d ! P ou Sh-
wom.en f re - ev f en Wl .f the hgh imple-
ment, much less trying to guide a double or
“treble” furrow. Also, as to single-furrow
ploughs, where is the small farmer or selector —
whether starving or otherwise—who cannot pro-
duce the “scratcher” disputed? True, the old
single-furrow is becoming scarcer, but is not by
any means yet extinct. Can’t see how the sketch
referred to was “misleading.” Has “W.J.”ever
seen three horses attached to, and working, a
“ single furrow ” ?
“ Vril.” : Re teetotal swaggies. I
met one once near Bogantungan (C.Q.),
but I grant he was a freak (of nature.
Scandinavian by nationality, Wander-
ing Jew by nature —for 27 years he had
“padded.” His hair, about 18in. long,
was carefully tied up with a piece of
blue ribbon, and his grey beard, reach-
ing almost to waist, was cleanly kept.
Foot-gear : cypress-pine sandals, se-
cured by greenhide latchet-strings.
The Cats-kill mountains silhouetted on
my brain. “Are you Rip Van Win-
kle?’ I said. “Xo, I vas Henrik
Bjomsen, and vas you able to gif me
a leedle bit of tea ? ”
• • • *
They were shearing on Tullaba-
room “station,” and only had half-an-
hour’s work in the morning to finish up
some stragglers. “ Cut ’em out, bhoys,”
said the boss, “before I come down
from th’ station in the marnin’ ” (sta-
tion homestead consists of nine sheets
of gal. iron, three on end for each side
and three flat on top for roof). Boss
duly arrived in the morning, and
started to count-out. “Maloney,
twinty-thrae, an’ all th’ hocks cut ! ”
Then he got on the board, shook his
fist and jumped on his hat. “Be th’
Holy Frost, there’ll be no more o’ tliim
blashted flyin’ starts on this es-tate.”
* * • *
“ J.A.C. ” : Re that baccy-eating
ram. In Townsville (Q.), there is a
billy-goat, always to be found near a
certain public-house bar, which gets
bleatless drunk, regularly, every day.
“ Vril " : At Raglan (Q.), an enterprising
young 7ft. alligator had grabbed a sow on the
bank of the creek, when a big boar charged
down the bank, and, striking the alligator,
rolled with him into the water, emerging
promptly therefrom, however, in safety. A few
days afterwards the’gator was shot, and found to
have a gash bin. long beneath the forearm.
• * • *
• Myall ” : In answer to “ Xerxes ”
(8., 12/5/’00): Gilgai is tho name given t°
a hole, or collection of holes (found in the
brigalow scrubs more especially). They are
filled with water in a wet season, and will
hold for a considerable time. They are not
caused by any animal, and are often sur-
rounded by a thick ring of brigalows. They
are sometimes called “ melon-holes.” Also,
to “ Wil.” (8., 12/5/’00). 1 have seen black
cockatoos, and loss frequently white ones,
“barking” the limbs of box and white-
gum. Again, to “Stalky” (8., 12/5/’00).
The “porcup ne” lays eggs, which it hatches
in a temporary pouch. It has no teats, but
an area of the breast becomes glandular and
serves the same purpose. The pouches
only exist in the breeding-season.
* * * »
“ Yangan ” : Re ability of turtles to
return themselves (“Lyndhurst,” B. 5/5/’00).
Given time and suitable ground and any
turtle will do so, not by “rocking” but by
flicking away the sand as it spins round
on its back, thus gradually forming a gutter
all round, and into this the turtle will tip at
such an angle that it will be able to lever
itself right-way-up again. The operation
requires many hours to complete, but I have
seen it accomplished more than once when
hunting for turtle-eggs on islands off Borneo.
“Xerxes”: / e fish swallowing fish
(B. 12/5/’00), I once set a small hook baited
with worm in Murrumbidgee, and next
morning had a 121 b. cod on. Found that a
small bream had taken the worm and had
been swallowed head-first by the cod,
which the back-spines of bream had then
hooked. I can swear to this, but, of course,
every old “whaler’’has caught the “nest
of fishes”—varying in number from three to
ten. according to the appearance of the
auditor—one inside the other, and ending
with a final surrounding of about lHOlb.
of cod. All of which is possible.
“ Alpar ” : While we were
drafting sheep “Jaeky” (darkie)
picked up a £1 note in one of the
yards, and somebody spotted him
and told the boss. Boss fearing
“Jaeky” would be off to town,
and not wanting to lose his services*
called the black up “Jaeky,”
lie said, “you bin pickem up one
pound. That pellar belonga me.”
“Was him ole man (dirty) pound,
or young man (clean) pound ? ”
asked Jaeky, and the boss, naturally
supposing the note would be soiled,
said : “ Ole man, Jaeky !” “ Vella
(very)man?’ asked Jaeky. “Yes,”
said the 8., “vella.” Then Jaeky
put his hand into his moles, and
pulled out a brand-new note ! There
was a very drunk aboriginal in
town next day.
“YVilgar”: A gipsy gang re-
cently visited this (Vic.) town and
camped in the drain of the local reser-
voir. Lovely ! Used to go round ask-
ing to have a glass of water brought, and while the
housewife would be getting it would pocket any-
thing portable. Then they would want a couple
of shillings placed on the table each side of the
glass. More running away for purses, and more
snapping-up of trifles. When the purse would be
forthcoming, they would jabber some more, and
eventually depart with a goodly spoil. One local
bank-manager said that a £l7 bag of silver had
been handed in by some of these beauties.
PEOPLE WE PUT ON THE LAND.
Wife: “I'm going to pay a few calls, John
Henry. I want you to keep the kitchen-fire
going ; and, if the butcher calls, take a leg of
mutton. Keep baby’s bottle full, and get him
to sleep at four. If old Mrs. Brown comes,
be nice to her and make some tea, but if
young Mrs. Brown comes you musn’t be at
home—do you hear / Get your own meals
properly; and you ought in between times to
plough at least two acres //”
If certain statements contained in reports
in the Vic. Police Department anent the Kelly
' gang are to be believed, that crowd narrowly
escaped making a political landmark in Aus-
tralian history. These reports indicated the
existence of such a widespread state of disaffection
in N.E. Victoria owing to what was called the
“ remand-ring” as applied to persons “guilty ”of
being Kelly sympathisers, that the Kellys had
determined to take advantage of it for their own
purposes. They had resolved, it was said, after
having upset the special train containing the
police from Melbourne, to make a cut across
country from Gienrowan to Bonalla, destroying
bridges and telegraph lines en route, and there to
have proclaimed N.E. Vic. a republic with
Benalla as capital. This move was stopped by
the failure of the effort to destroy the train, owing
to a miscalculation of the time at which it was to
arrive. But for this hitch, it is asserted,
nothing could have averted the railway catastro-
phe as a prelude to the Presidency of Edward
Kelly, Esq., supported by nine men out of every
ten in the disaffected district.
» * * •
Dear Bulletin.— lie “ T.G.F.’s ” inquiry
(8., ID/5/’OO) about the “rnulcurry.” I had the
luck to witness one in North Queensland a few
years ago, and will, if desired, furnish privately
to any ethnological enquirer a description, which
would bo totally unprintable.—G. Alexander,
P. 0., Hamilton (Vic.).
“ Malle ” : He T.C.F. (Bulletin 19/5/’00).
The ganggung is not brown but grey; in other
respects it answers description given. Has about
tlie most raucous note of any of the parrot tribe.
They are common in Southern coastal ranges and
are reputed to be splendid talkers. Have shot
many on Upper Murray for specimens.
MAFEKINQ RELIEVED.-TOO AMBIIWUa.
DEAR OLD LADY: "Aren’t you proud of bein'
British on a great day like this is?”
SNA KEY: “O, sorlright, but -I’d- rather be one
of them Jap. sailor-blokes, en get carried
round all day.”


The
“Fx & R” WATCH.
THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY WATCH OF THE AGE.
25/6.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
Jewellers by appointment to His Excellency Earl Beauchamp, K.C.M.Q.
23 Huuter atreet (only), SYDNEY.
THE movements are on the Lever principle
TH EY have Breqnet. oveicoil balance spring*.
TH Y are jewelkd in to holes.
THEY have compensated and adjusted
balances.
THEY have jewel ruby rollers.
THEY are dus. proof and WATERTIGHT.
THE eases SCREW together.
THEY are specially made to stand rough
riding and knocking about, and go with
v i eat accuracy. $
THEY are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept
in order (breakages excepted), for two
years.
THEY are 25/6 each, in oxidised metal O.F\
cases ; and 42/- in solid Silver o. F. cases.
THEY are made in every style of case.
When you treat a friend do not offer him
anything counterfeit. Helidon Spa has many
imitators, but none possess the valuable properties
which have won for it the public’s approbation.*
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
He had been “doing-in his bit ” at the
pub. when the township went off its head over the
relief of Mafeking, and next morning he inquired
dubiously of the first man ho met if there had been
a lot of bolls ringing the night before. “Oh, yes
—lots!” lie was told. “Any guns and crackers
going off?” “Yes, plenty.” “ Any bands play-
ing?” “Yes, celebrating relief of Mafeking, you
know.” He drew a sigh of relief. “Then I
hadn't got ’em again, after all 1 ”
HENRY LAWSON; photo, of a quick sketch in oils by John Longstaff.
The famous old Maori priest, Rangitahau,
who conducted the ceremonial over the recent
opening of the carved house at Rotorua (M.L.j,
has since died, and the day after his decease his
old comrade, Te Hiinopo, also died, after but a
few hours’ illness. This, as predicted 50 years
ago (according to the natives), completes the
seven victims doomed on account of some law of
tapu. said to cover the carved house.
“Myall” :
emu’s speed (B.
12/5/’00). The aver-
age emu, in a good
season, can run as
fast as an average
horse can gallop,
though, during
drought, they are
easily run down.
They can last much
longer, on the aver-
age, than a horse,
but, if galloped on
to suddenly, they
become confused
and do not seem
able to do their
best.
“ Xerxes ” : The
emu’s speed de-
pends on circum-
stances. With a
strong bird, in good
condition, and a
start of. about a
quarter-mile, you
want a good horse
to catch him, and
the chase will be
lengthy.: But, gal-
lop quickly on to a
mob, so as to take
them by surprise,
and yell at them,
and they’re done—
can’t run a bit.
As for kangaroo-
jumps, I have
measured one over
the head of a fallen
tree (which the ’roo
did not touch),
35ft. long and 9ft.
high, but I think
this was a supreme
effort.
The M‘Gooey
is infuriated :
Dear Bulletin.
The sententious state-
ment made by “ Puy-
yaka” in 8., 5/6/’OO,
that “ the death-ad-
der is ... . the only
viviparous Australian
snake, all others lay-
ing eggs,” is untrue.
Several venomous
Australian snakes
bring forth their young alive ; and if readers of anti-
quated cyelopindias don’t know this all snake authorities
(to. Probably every country school-boy in Australia
knows that during the breeding season living young, Sin.
or 9in. long, can always be found in the egg-vessels of red-
bellied black snakes, tiger snakes, and several black
s lakes of the genus Iloploccphalus, to which the tiger
snake belongs. If the snakes just mentioned had never
given birth to young while in captivi'; mt they nave
done so on
several occa-
sions the
fact could be
abundantly
proved by
dissection and
deductive
reasoning.
Because, for-
sooth, the
death - adder
is the only
Austral ian
snake classed
among the
V i p e rid o',
“ P uyyaka”
jumps to the
conclti sioii
that all other
Australian
snakes must
be oviparous!
This is cocka-
too - parrot
logic with a
v e n g e a nee.
The words,
“black snake”
‘or “ brown
snake,” con-
vey no defin-
ite meaning,
as the vast
majority of
our snakes are
either black
or brown.
Theoretically,
the tiger-
snake is dis-
tinctly band-
ed, but a
brown - band-
ed snake is
not always a
tiger - snake ;
and the cop-
pery - brown
snake of
B r a i d w ood
and Rockley,
N. S. W., al-
ways confi-
dently refer-
red to locally
as “the brown
snake,” isn’t
the Brown
Snake (D.
superettiosa )
at all, but is
the Tiger
Snake (/i.
Curtus). Color
is precisely as
useful in de.
termining the genus or species of a snake ;.s the color of
Mick Gilrooney’s cart-horse is in determining the exact
state of President Kruger’s appetite, “ Puyyaka tells
U 8 young snakes “ seek safety in the parental
throat.” Do they, now? But how strange that 12 years
ago, when I discovered and publicly announced this fact,
every Tom Noddy who could use a pen flatly contradicted
me. Is “ Puyyaka ” stealing my thunder, and where did
he get this information if not from my publications ?
AT THE AGRICULTURAL SHOW.
SMALL BOY : “ I say, father, this must be General Butter! ”
WING FAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fg
ALONE.
ANSERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
O.P. : Summed up: Australia’s present attitude
to the Empire is crawl. But guess we’ll stand some day—
and after that we’ll walk... .J.H.11. : “ llow long, O Hea-
ven, how long?” Five verses, O Heaven, five verses—all
shrieking and all damned.... E.D.S. : Ode to “Damascus’’
sent there via Jericho... .5.11. D. : “And —puny reason
reels—O for more light 1 ” More basket is what we want.
A Common S. : You say “ it’s an ill bird that files its
own nest.” True : we have never heard of any bird doing
such a thing. You pose as an nltra-Jingo ;do please be
loyal to “ the Queen’s English” Pax : Lax fax Wil :
“ When my woman’s sacred nudeness rests supinely in his
arms.” Hm !.'... Eileen : Written by a 16-year-old school-
girl.” And looks like it Uncle: If that’s your best,
send along Aunt’s A woman : Please keep on being a
woman, but do stop sermonising E.J.N. : The essence
of Hare’s system for “ the representation of minorities ” is
one-country-one-electorate. Applied to small Australian
constituencies there are a dozen ways of counting votes—
your own, and Spence’s, and Johnston’s, and Byrnes’s, &c.
No one is more “ accurate” than another in liare’s view,
since the minority still goes unrepresented, however you
count votes. Ami the way we explained is as good as any.
A.R. (White Cliffs): Drowned baby declined
A.P.0.: That politician was born in N S.W. and had
roamed little. He only wandered in his mind Walter
S. : Don’t you really think there are enough papers in
Australia printing what you are pleased to call “ the
truth about the war ? ” Further The Bulletin was never
an “honest” paper—as you define honesty. It was
always a paper which would rather be hit in the eye with
a long-dead cat than blindly follow in the swim and
mouth the chorus of the Jingo choir Von K.: You say
a woman can only have one kind of Past—the conven-
tional kind. Why ? Her past might include forgery,
bank robbery, gambling frauds, embezzlement, counter-
feit coining, etc. The plain dreary baby isn’t her only
chance to go astray Gobung : Too precipitous
D.P.B. (Liverpool): “ Captain Russell, M.H.R., Hastings,
Hawke’s Bay, Maoriland,” will find the man you want
W.M.F. : Little more than the flat statement at great
length that a tree fell on a man. And trees have fallen
ana men have failed to get out of the road in time since
Genesis Lex : (1) The Professor was wholly or almost
wholly a fraud. (2) Believe it is principally a matter of
acquired skill. But why do you call mesmerism an
unnatural power. It is as natural as the power to lift
jib. of butter A.O. : “Does The Bulletin pay for
poetry?” It pays for what it prints, but what do you
call poetry ? Bulletin never knew any bard worth a rap
who didn’t call his productions “ verse.” The man who
says he writes “ poetry ” is on a level with the potentate
who when writing his name on an envelops addressed to
himself calls himself J. Smith, “Esquire.” J.B.C. :
Your last word is “ Ressurrection.” And our last word is
Annihilation. .0. (Fiji): Pleasing infantilities smothered..
C. 0.8. : That is not the question. Premier Lyne says the
Cape cable is shelved so far as N.S.W. is concerned. Well,
will he push on the Pacific cable? Sarx: But the
woman-writers who most hopelessly err as to the work-
ings of the mind-masculine are precisely those who are
themselves of androgynous type, because, while the sub-
masculine part of them invalidates their instinctive judg-
ment of the other sex, the feminine element invalidates
their analogical estimate... One of the Contingent: Your
charge against the man makes a first-class libel, yet you
don’t offer to sign your real name to it, so that the
aggrieved party can go against you—instead of against us
—for damages. You see, we could not possibly give up
your name without your consent, and you evidently don’t
mean to be shot at The Baby ; Reads like a bit of the
“ Bad Boy’s Diary ” in a brutal frame of mind
Jimmie Pannikin : The bad woman who repents
on seeing a fat infant is done to death
A.O. : The event in question was a result of The Bul-
LEnN’srecentstrictureson BenallaShire Council’s brazenly-
illegal action in spending £5 of the shire’s money upon a
hoodlum telegram to Lord Roberts. The shot told so
well that the Council didn't venture to dip into the shire’s
pocket for the cost of the subsequently-sent Baden-
Powell wire L.J.M. (Vic.) : “The Sheep 5.,” wooden
as a ninepin F.C.J. : Please do “ boil itdown.” After
writing it once, see how much you can leave out. We
can always effectively omit half ..E.P.S. : Bulletin
docs not encourage sectarian rows, no matter how much
cheap Readable copy is thrown at it. This paper pays tor
political, social, literary, and artistic contributions. It
docs not care for the job of stirring up the dregs of old-
world feuds Manager N. Mt. Farrell : Type-writing
illegible. We arc all hunting just now, not for faint
M. hut for a new pair of eyes VVandero : Until
Denison’s time, the Governor of N.S.W. was known
as “ the Governor-General," though he had absolutely no
control over the other provinces Gunner : Have
looked it up, and find that so far from none of the generals
who fought with the allies at Waterloo being over 80, as
alleged by Stead, in the Hritish army alone Picton was 88,
Alton 51, Kempt 51, Vandeleur 52, Colqnhoun Grant 61.
The French generals were all younger B.: In a word,
N. Govt, should admit no unnecessary delay in pro-
viding Dr. Tidswell with a suitable bacteriological reserve
—if riot Goat Island in the harbor, then some equally
accessible spot IT. M. G. : Thanks; will use
Baby: Much humor; may trim and use Arte-
sian : That question was fully discussed in Bulletin
some time back. The appearance is not very uncommon.
. ...W.M.F. : It’s well enough known that a greyhound
can’t “live” with a fairly speedy horse on a clear
road; though “ across-country ” the dog will score
....Pelican: The Queensland reptile is no ’gator
—but a true crocodile T.J.M, : Not a bad
idea, but it would require practical re-casting....
Chips: Scraps, shreds, fragments... B.C.F. (Melb.) :
“ The sea waves glint in phosphorescent light.” Probably
Yarra sewage W.H.D. : Considering.... Eller : Emu-
oil may act oh the muscles, but neither it nor any other
oil will “soften bone.” No; the marsupials are not
ruminants,-.. .Nikan : That tank-incident was illustrated
in The Bulletin some time ago... .M.E.P. : Too crude
and awkward... .P.P. : Weak and wooden treatment of a
theme with powerful possibilities Bong Un : All right;
might happen to anybody... .St. 0.8., “'Esq.”: The
lady’s acting is very far indeed from “ super,” and your
claim on behalf of your “countrymen ” makes us suspect
that you are not Australian. Never knew an Australian
deliberately to label himself “Esq.,” anyhow... .E.E. :
Too foreign and uninteresting... .J.S.W. : Dry hones of
pathos... .F.W.H. : Will print S & S....Bushie: Melo-
dious twaddle.... A.E.C. : Not without merit, hut far too
long for it... .Cerise : Chiefly long words misused.... J. ;
Possibly in a different form... .Stud : Secret-crimes yarn
makes good enough reading, hut you overstate the case ;
and, as regards a projected rising, are saying more than
you know... .Shamrock : A good jibe. But-all men are
our own kindred... .Comic: They' would be useless....
M.A. : Gladstone in 1887 stated in the Commons that
during the previous half-century 1.225,000 persons had
died of famine in Ireland, 3,568,000 had been evicted and
4,185,000 had emigrated.... P.A. : When war broke out,
the Rand was producing nearly nine millions sterling
worth of gold per annum, which, as Sydney D.T. inad-
vertently remarks “is truly a prize worth struggling
f0r.”.... A.L.O. : Amounts to just this: If the Sydney
town-clerk is of real use, he should get £lOOO a year at
least: if he is no good he should be shunted. Mayors
being usually sententious fools there is all the more
need for the town-clerk being an able man... .Cull : Not
very strong.... K. A. W. : But the fact is carefully kept
dark (it was accidentally blurted out in the Jingo Aus-
tralian Star) that when the vote was carried against
Holman at E. W.valong “ quite half those present re-
frained from voting.” Which simply means that 50 per
cent, of the meeting feared to show its hand lest it should
lose its billet S.L. : Proves nothing about “ the much-
desired amalgamation of the two faiths.” Has always
been in the Anglican rubric Cecil F. : Not necessary
to be continually correcting local usage. As long as the
Queenslander calls the crocodile a “ ’gator,” a ’gator it is—
for him H.M. and Eller: The “gang-gang” will
now have to “gangoot.” E.J.H.D. : An almost iden-
tical snake-and-egg yarn appeared in Tins Bulletin months
ago Imperialist (M.L.) : You evidently don’t read The
Bulletin, which isn’t taking, and never will take, any Im-
perialism N.J.11. : You might publish the doggerel
yourself fordingo-bait. .Veldt: Not up.. .MarieS.: Down...
Cull : A pretty little conventional yarn about the
Drunkard’s Home. Nicely written, but not enough meat
on it. . .Bob the Reefer : “Mates” is rather ordinary
melodrama. With a more original ending it would go
we11....P. T. B. : Two lines of “Loneliness” herewith
on spec. :
He cries ! Wealth is not mine, and yet around
Unceasingly men pass with flash and lordly air.
“Flash and lordly air” is interesting, anyhow.... Fact
(Narandera) : Have planted and watered the baby-inci-
dent in hopes it may grow.. ..John C. : “ Fever King”
is a purely mechanical item, and miles behind your other
work.


THE LAND OF PROMISE—CHINA!
°f GM* lillll'll I
I c -' > (to lo^ Sf>»;sicr):--A
wmi boat ropjjANT china^
At the annual convention of tne Victorian Auxiliary of The London Missionry Society, Mrs. Halley referred in a mournful fashion to the fact that the lady missionaries who went to China had
developed a great tendency towards marriage. “With one honorable exception.” Mrs. Halley remarked, "the Ladies don’t seem to be able to resist the marrying tendency. In eleven years fivo
ladies have been sent out from this auxiliary, and of these four hare married. Some have married the missionaries of other societies. Others have married merchants. Even the fifth is now about
to be married.”


At Mosman’s Bay a large and insani-
tary area of between 8 and 10 acres is
being formed into a recreation ground.
This will be known as “ Reid Park.”
i Overheard on the Mosman ferry.
V Resident : “ I’ll bet. you what you
\ like it will be known as the Yesno
\ Pabk to the end of time ! ”
A COMPULSORY TUB..
«« At a meeting of the City Cbunpil Alderman Hughes
wished to know if there was any
bye-law in existence by which
citizens could be compelled to
have a bathroom attached to
their houses. The Mayor re-
plied that there was not, but
probably something would be;
done in the matter.” '
At the last meeting of N.S.W.
(Society it was sug-
\trested that a cage should
be provided for youth-
ful offenders who on
Sundaysdestroyed
the flower-beds_ _
and interfered with the
pea-fowls.
Why not put tbstp in a
cage already occupied by
Other specimens of the
same species 1
Police (to
unwilling alder-
man) : “ No,' bein’ a
ftldherman doesn’t aximpt
ye. Ive no othet coorse but
to infoorce the law. In vou
gel ” ■ *
TJIE. ALCOH OLID A YS.
From a sketch by a survivor of the.
Mafeflng festivities.
Law-Abiding Citizen: “I.used to look forward to my morning tub
until they made it compulsory, and now I loathe it as I do the income-tax! ”
. NO DANGER TO THAT SORT.
\ Beit and Co. : “ S’elp me, here he is at last. I suppose it’s
safe for me to get/ down now.”
“ The Boer Treasury is commandeering £200,000
worth of gold a month from the
mines.”—News item.
“ Johannesburg has been
captured by the
British.”—
Daily
paper.
'Mrs. "Haggles : “ Why, what in the world have you been doing to
the children f ” ; ■>
Ragglks : “ Only just painting their legs, with tar to keep the bubonic fleas
off ! ”
New artillery practice, as adopted by opposing forces
in the war now raging between the Military and the
Engine-street Larrikins in Sydney streets.
CARTOONLETS.


' J
/
S
SAUNDERS
817 CEORCES T
SYDNEY
815
£=2
M
/
e=y
_ ls A. SAUNDERS.
Reliable LEVERS. “ The Challenge," I6e; Un-
rivalled, 20s. ; Pure Silver, 355. (All guaranteed.)
A SA S IAUMTjL
New Model WAtcf'mrj, j plate, Chronometer
Balance, Jewelled. 16s 6d ; Silver, 85s ; Gold.
£2 16s. Thee? Prices are Specially Reduced.
A. SAUNDERS.
8 'ECIAL MADE ROTHERHAM LEVERS.
Full Cap, £3 10s : Extra Jewelled Chronometer
Balance, £4 10s ; Keyless Full Cap, £5.
Send for 1900 List. All Guaranteed.
A. SAl.\i/icAokkt).
Ladies’ WaterL»ury Watch, Keyless,
ISs 6d ; Pure Silver, 30s : Gold, £2 16s.
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Keyless Waltham, J-plate, Patent Cases,
£4 4s ; 14c. gold, £6 5s ; Extra Quality, £7 10s,
£10; 18c. Gold, £l2 10s. Solid Silver, £2 10s,
£3, £4, £6. We give a Guarantee Certificate.
Solid vjo.d Guam (Single or Uounle) £2 lus>,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £6. 16c. Solid Gold,
£5 10s, £O, £6 lus, £7, £B, £lO. Pure
Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Bend for Price Illustrated Book.
Gold 2 Birds, Chain and Heart. Full Size
10s, small 8s (id.
Gold Brooch, 6s fid. Special value.
A. SAI’NDKRS.
London Levers 255, Pure Silver £2 ss. Hunting
Oases, £2 10s, £B. Written (guarantee.
Send for Price List.
_fl_a
dtei
A. SAUNDERS. '
New Gold 8-Bar Pearl Set and Red Stone Scroll
Ofls.
Any Name or Initial Kree.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra strong, 10a
15c. Gold 16s ; 18c. Gold 20s. Silver 3s 6d.
Gold Good Luck and Bird Brooch, 10s Cd
hf
A. SAUNDERS.
Qold Wish Bone and Pearl and Turquou*
Bee, 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 35a.
Si
Gold 8-Bar and Red Stone Brooch, ISa.
Very N'^at.
2£.
FRONT STUDS. 9c. Gold, 8s 6d and 10s.;
8 Front, 15c. Gold, 12s 6d and 15a.
Send for List.
A. SAUNDERS.
16c. Gold New Secret Name Brooch, S Diamonds.
£3; Diamond and i Rubies, £•> 10s ; Cheaper
Style, 265. Any Name FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered 15c. Gold Key. Heart & Ivy Brooch,
35s ; 18c. Gold, JB2 6s. The Very t'^utesi.
A. 6AUNDERS.
Registered 9c. Gold Amethyst Brooch,
17s 6d ; 16c. Gold, 80s ; 18c. Gold, 86s.
Out Latest Motto Brooch.
15c. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies, with
Ivy Leaves, 265. Very Cheap.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and
Heart Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
15c. Gold Wish Bone Forget-me-not
Brooch, 15s. Special Value.
A. SAUNDERS,
ew Gold Link, 20s; 15c. Ooli
S&». Silver, 4s.
Ciola Uearl<fc Duiuliell Links,,
12a 8d ; 16c., 26s ; Silver, 3s (ki
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style Gold Links, Extra
Strong and Heavy, 22s (Id ; 16c.
Solid Gold, £2 2s. Silver, 4s 6d.
A Strong Reliable Link.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Shield & Dumbell Links,
9c. Gold, 21s ; 15c. Gold, 35a.
Silver, 4s 6d.
a. Saunders.
Solid Gold Links, 18s 6d, 20s,
265, 355, £2, £2 10s.
Monogram, 2s 6d Extra.
CHARM.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget
Brooch, t()8 6d. o~r
9Wn Registered
Design.
CHARM.
Gold Wish Bone
and Heart or
Horseshoe, is.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Charm Envelope
with Twopenny
Stamp, 12s 6d.
Name Free.
• A. SAbNDERS.
Registered Gold Good Wish Brooch,
18s 6d ; 18c. Gold, 255. Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
latest Gold 1900 Pearl & Diamond Brooch, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, 7 Opals, 14 Pearls, 85s.
Bracelets to Match, £2 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird Chain and Heart Brooch, 7s 6d.
Special Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Butterfly Brooch, Pearls, Red or
Blue Stones, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDER&
Registered Erin-Go-Bragh B ooch, 17s 6d
15c. I old, 80b , 18c. Gold, 355.
A SAUNDERS.
New Gold Century Brooch, 158.
A. SAUNDERS.
IN. Gold 2-Bar Pure Diamond Brooch, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band, Opal,
17s 6d ; 16c. Gold, 30s ;
180. Gold, £2.
Send for Size Card.
A. SA UN DICKS.
18 c- Gold, 3 Pure Di*.
J?onds, 2 Opal Hearts,
10s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 6 Opals,
J-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 8 Sapphires,
Rubies or Opals, 4 Dia-
monds, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £5.
A. SAUNDERa
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
monds, and 2 Rubies or
Sapphires, Buckle,
£2 10s.
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
mond Band, £2, £2los,
£3 ; 15c. Gold, 80s.
18c. Solid Gold, Extra
Strong' and Heavy, one
or three Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £6.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Solid Gold Chain
Rings, 15s, 20s, 30s, £2.
Price to Quality of Gold.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Gold 2-Bird 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s : Pearl Set Bird. 22s 6d :
A. SAUNDERS.
Ivy Leaf Gold Mizpah Brooch, 12* 6d
Silver, 4s Od.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Keyless, 265, 30s, £2,
£2 10s £3
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £6.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone Heart and Arrow, with
Red Stone, 12s 6d.
Our Newest Gold Bird and Bell, 6s 6d
Amethyst, 7s 6d.
CHARM.
Gold, Amethyst,
and Pearls, 16s 6d;
16c. Gold, 21*.
A SAUNDERS
Gold Charm, tOs.
Vary Latest,
A. SAUNDERS.
OHAR.M. Gold, with
Enamelled Poet
Office, 108.
A.SAUNDERS
CHARM, New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Latest Gold Rose,
Shamrock & Thistle, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Old English
Coin, Gold Mounted,
10s.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15c., 308, 355;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, I’ure Double-cut
Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, ±'6 6s, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Special Reduced
Id Trilby Rings,
fid ; with Ame-
yst, 7s 8d ; with-
out Chain, 8s Od.
Gold Bell and Chains,
is 6d 3a 6d 2s 6a.
gh
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain Snap Padlock,
265, 80s, 355, £2 6s, £3;
16c., £2 108, £B, £4,
£4 IQs, £6, £6, £lO.
10s. Extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
a. Saunders.
Iland-ma.ie Weddinp Rings and Keener, a.
Solid Gold, fi* (id, ?r «d, log ea.’h
15s : extra heavy, i6s ;
heasj, due. aug. i-M. Seudloi , | % ' extr ‘ 1
A. SAUNDERS.
New Sword and Australian Enamelled Flag- Brooch, 20s
Ours is the Australian Flag.
Call and See our Jewellery Exnibition—A Special Easter Shew or Send for our 1900 Complete illustrated Book
- ■■ - -■ = free anywhere.^~
A. SAUNDERS,
Leading Art Jeweller,
815 $ 817 George St.,
NEARLY
OPPOSITE
RAILWAY
STATION,
’fiaupfiS


An Irish gentleman advertises in S. .
fJgBAT.n agony column:
ANTED, the Address of PAT FITZGERALD,
W Son of MICHAEL FITZGERALD, of Rock
Lodge, Longhill West.co. Limerick, Ireland (Mother s
name was Margaret O’Sullivan). Anyone communi-
cating the same to THOMAS O’CONNOR, Rai way
Hotel, Mangalore, Victoria, if alive or dead, will e
thankfully received. Important interests involved
by relatives.
An old Melbourne identity died the other
day, when Mr. Hamil Kerr went over. He and
his brother Robert arrived in Victoria in ’46, and
started business as grocers in Collins-street,
between Swanston and Elizabeth-streets, in which
street at the same time (keeping a greengrocer’s
shop) was William Nicholson,_ “ father of the
ballot ” and Premier of Victoria in 1559. Fashion-
able Gollins-street would now turn up its nose at
cabbages and cauliflowers being sold upon the
Block.
fgh
fg
hfg
h
fgh
fg
hfg
hf
gh
fg
THE
PLUM
hfg
Price—SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6<1.; or with Ivor}'
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Ouse, 21s. ;or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR EOR TWO TEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRA.IG & A.ITKEN, 630 ST.,
S. FREEMAN SONS Ll^
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
' TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNTARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
SS!ToRS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
BAILEYS
Under Kqyal Patronage.
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH KEfiSIfMTOfi,
LOHDoriSJiy.
THE NEW LOUNGE.
hf
ghf
One of the FINEST examples
of modern OAK CARVING extant
Self-contained Suites .
Public Rooms opening on to
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN
LONDON.
This is the Latest Type I
GRAMOPHONE
or
ZONOPHONE!
Price, £7.
gh
TALES! SINGS!
PLAYS ALL
Instrumental Music!
In fact, it is a CONCERT in your own Home.
Nothing' to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
S 3" Also on Sale—Phonographs and Graphophonesj
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £so—a fortune for a smart
man ; 2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each —Bargain.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOTI
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowo Street (120 Pitt-street), Sydney (Only),
nearly opposite G.P.O.
[Carriage Paid.) W. J. N. OummhaW, Manager.
BUILD A TERRACE
OF FINE HOUSES
WITH THE MONEY
THAT TUB
National
Cash Register
... will ...
Save and Make for You
in a Few Years.
You don’t understand why?
Well, you have only to investigate
To see how to accumulate 1
d
FACT! STICK TO IT. IT’S MONEY!
PRICES ON APPLICATION to
national Cash Register Co.,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
By Steele Ruder.”
. . THE . .
BEST FOOT
FOREMOST
Is an old saying: frequently heard at
home, but how many people have a
“best foot” which they care to put
forward? Character is often revealed
by the shape or condition of a shoe.
Now you can always distinguish the
“HERZ” shoe, because its wearer is
never ashamed of it. One has a feeling
of being “well-dressed” if the “HERZ”
shoe is part of our outfit. The reason is
not far to seek
PERFECT SHAPE,
which is never lost in wear.
BEST LEATHER.
The Finest Quality that can be
procured.
ABSOLUTE EASE
and comfort in all weathers.
UVWVAA/
Ask for and get
The “ HERZ ” Shoes.
HUNTER’S SELL THEM.
BEWARE
OF
IMITATIONS.
SEE
'HAT TEIIE SIG-ETATTJBE-
LEA & PERRINS’
IS ON EVERY BOTTLE.
SAUCE
Ae-ents—VIRGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.
!ailenburgs Foods.
PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing: digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
* w birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ AHenburys”
The “ AHenburys ”
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months ot Ule.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ Allenburys” Malted Food no. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW'S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that—“No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Alien & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Crimwade & Co.
MELBOURNE.
Agents-E. RICH & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
KfcMP’s Patent LiqCiid.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Cut;
u Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
3 i acb) lEteca, and Blue. 3a Qd per gall. Melto. and Sydney; 3a Qcl i?®r S a.H. Bristol**®


GEO. ROE
WHISKEY
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk ftTMPrf
Mattalassk and other Unshuinkablk ShikTc,
aie highly recommended.
33/- per llalj-dozen, /vee In/ pout throuyhout
A iistrirtiu.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNT: ASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q’land
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
I S PAT It ON A G
.. 0n...
fir. Fra ok Senior,
Of 24G George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-ltegal OJiemist.
Avoid Indigestion. Eat
GRABMUMA
Avoid Plague? Drink
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
Be Cheerful? Drink
BILLY TEA
The LUXURY of the TIMES. QUITE UP-TO-DATE
KHAKI BLEND TEA.
Indispensible ! USED by all Loyalists !
THE BUSHMAN CONTINGENT CANTEEN
Of ALL Good Grocers and Sensible Storekeepers.
X
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRAPLCV # CO.,
./'lit* nxtuve timl Bine Avt si. actio new# f
Auction Booms, 324 Scorj) Surest, Zjlxt9j h
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, (Pa-scare, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Biadley, assisted by a competent staff.
, ‘ S tf j 's licit! iff //if* Auction ItoouiH.
Cash Advanced on Goods for (Jnreserved Sale,
Valuations an<l [nveniories carefully prepared.
\\ALt’Eit LiuADi.KV & C0.,324 George-st
POLITICAL
POINTS
Delegate Dickson is on the horns of a
hideous dilemma. If that bauble doesn’t soon
materialise, his candid friends will murmur things,
and if it does, what about his candid enemies !
Said that John See will be nominated for
the Federal Parliament, Brother Sam for the
State Parliament seat of Grafton, and Brother
Dave for the State Parliament seat of the Clarence l
Ihe British Independent Labor-party’s
strenuous opposition to the Transvaal war is in
striking contrast to the truckling and time-serving
attitude of the Australian Labor-parties. It’s the
difference between backbone and belly.
1 he rush of IST.SAY. Labor members and
Radical members generally into the profession of
Law is a striking commentary on the sustained
antagonism of both these parties to allowing law-
yers to become numerically strong in Parliament.
M llwraith s transcontinental railway
scheme is small beer to the present contemplated
niching per private-railway land-grants, of the
best of the glorious mineral lands of the Northern
province. Ihe Philp Govt, now throws off the
mask with a vengeance.
“A Member ” : How military enthusiasm
is manufactured. I have just asked the only mes-
senger whom I found at one of the Sydney
Govt. Departments where the other messengers
were. “ Oh, they have all been sent out to give
the troops off the Moravian a “ oheer ! ”
Q. Premier Philp's assertion that “ it had
been abundantly proved that private enterprise
oould work mining railways hotter than the
Government,” was made in the land of the Char-
ters lowers and Mt. Morgan railways—-two of the
best-paying mining State railways on the face of
the globe.
“ Ancient ” . - lie N.S. VV. Minister Crick’s
alleged desire for the portfolio of Lands. Always
understood he could have had the post from the
start, but, as he commands the best Lands practice
m the profession, to hold the position would com-
Eel him to refuse all cases connected with the
iand Courts.-
The secretary of the London branch of the
W.A. Goldfields league prophesies that blood will
yet be spilt in Westralia if Bigjohn Forrest
persists in refusing the gold-mining towns their
fair share of representation. And more im-
probable things than that have been spilt on even
smaller provocation.
HIS OPINION.
“ Now, honestly! Do
you think a picture
like that should have
been hung ?”
“I do not. I think it should have been shot!”
An extended advt. signed “J. W. Holli-
man” notifies that N.S.W. Public Service Board
will in July next hold a competitive examination of
candidates (male) for employment. Pay : £39 per
annum for the first year. Then says the advt. :
“Persons already employed in the general division
of the Public Service will be admitted to the
examinations, provided their age does not exceed
30 years.” Thirty years—£39 per annum ! Where
is O’Sullivan’s minimum wage ?
Writes There may be only 300,
or even only 30, members of N.S.W. Licensed
V ictuallers’ Association, but then the brewers and
W. and S. merchants vote for their bond-slaves,
the tied houses. The number of members in the
L.\ .A. looks as if there were only that many free
houses in the province.
\ abien Solomon, who was Premier of
S.A. for a week, last Dec., has again been made
leader of the Assembly Opposition. Parliament
meets about the middle of this month, and, in all
probability, there will be a no-confidence motion
fired at the Holder Govt, within a week or two of
the beginning of business.
Perth Morning Herald, of which Alick
Forrest is chief shareholder and chairman, yells
for a reduction of food-duties and abolition of the
stock-tax, which in Groperland runs up to 30s. for
every beast imported. As Brer Alick is boss of
the meat-ring, which has sent the price of beef to
Is. per lb., the attitude of the Herald is effron-
tery personified.
N.S.W. Labor-party should avoid the
Upper House’ till the members thereof are
paid for their services. How can a carpenter or
plasterer make an honest living and hold a useful
place in that Chamber ? Or else the people who
support the Labor Party should subscribe £3OO
a-year to save the Labor M.L.C. from the tempta-
tion of selling himself soul and body.
According to the recent decision of
N.S.W. Supreme Court in the long-contested
-National Guard case, the volunteer corps, which
are armed, clothed, and drilled at the public
expense, belong nevertheless to their amateur
commanding officers—such people as George
Republican Dibbs and J. C. Neild —as absolutely
as if said C.O.’s paid and maintained them.
The Secretary of Sydney Slock Exchange
calls upon the united Australian Govts, to cable
Chamberlain and have Pretoria re-named “ Vic-
toria,. Thinks it would be “happy and signifi-
cant,” also that it would “ please the Empire.” It
would also be most brilliantly original. But why
not call it New Jerusalem, or Cohenstadt, or
Wernherburg, or Nabothvillo? The truth is
mighty.
Ihe final results of S.A. Leg. Cpuucil
elections show that, taking the four districts, the
total Tory majority was about 2800 votes in a poll
of about 25,000. In the Southern, Central, and
Northern districts 1601 more votes would have
put in six supporters of Household Suffrage
instead of three, and so would have carried the
Bill. In the Central and Northern districts 480
votes more would have returned four supporters
instead of two.
One probable opponent of consistently-
Radical Jack Murray at next Vie. elections is a
personage noted for the ease with which lie turns
on the tap of earnestness in any available cause or
for any profitable adventure. A pro-Boer himself
before the Murray treason, hid indignation at the
latter’s “disloyalty” swung him gracefully to
ardent Imperialism at the very moment when a
hopeful vacancy yawned invitingly at Warrnam-
bool. His election speeches should be models of
apologetics, as they will no doubt be admirable
exercises in the mathematics of earnestness.
There was a deal of soreness in
official circles over the annexation of
the Fijis, which did not reach the public
ear at tho time. Commodore Good-
enough and Mr. Layard were appointed
by the Gladstone Govt., in ’73,-to pro-
ceed to Fiji as Commissioners to inquire
into and report on the state bf affairs
there. They were anxious to secure
the annexation of the country, and both
of them looked for the Governorship of
the new province. Goodenough worked
hard for it, and Layard, not the most
prudent of men, said openly that he was
promised the position before he left
England. Owing to the action of J. B.
Thurston, Chief-Secretary in King
Thakombau’s Govt.—who was persist-
ently ignored by Goodenough the
Commissioners were only able to obtain
an offer of cession which was so
hampered by conditions that the
British Govt, was certain to refuse.
When the report reached England,
Beaconsfield had superseded Gladstone;
and Hercules Robinson was deputed to
go to Fiji and fix up matters. The
two Commissioners were greatly
incensed. Goodenough wrote a strong
remonstrance to the Imperial author-
ities, and Layard threatened, like an
ordinary English paterfamilias, to send
a letter to the Times. Robinson
squared Thurston in one act by meet-
ing his views as to employment, and
obtained an unconditional surrender of
the group. Thurston was made Colonial-
Secretary of the Crown colony, and as
he was the only member of Thak.’s
Govt, who did not lose by the change
of sovereignty, he was sent to Coventry
by his former colleagues. He was an
able man, and an untiring worker, with a thorough
grasp of the political and financial possibilities of
the country. But for his assistance the first Gover-
nor, Sir Arthur Gordon, would have been lost.
In course of time the old animosities died out, and
Thurston became a highly popular Governor.
When Kingston put the question of S.A.
Council amendment to the people at large by
referendum, his reform scheme was approved by
49,000 voters (10,000 majority). But when the
Leg. Councillors, at their own little election, asked
their own little constituency of property-voters if
it was quite satisfied with the arrangement,
whereby it had all the Council voting power to
itself, 16,000 (about 3000 majority) voters
rose up and said the present arrange-
ment suited them very well. The majority
for reform was as large as the whole anti-reform
vote ! And the local Tory Critic calls this “the
clear and emphatic verdict of the PEOPLE”
against reform. Ye gods !
A SPION-KOP-PER.
Perhaps the two most unexpected of the
nominees to N.B.W. Leg. Council are Messrs.
Alex. Ross and W. M. Robson. Both owe their
elevation to services rendered to Premier Lyne
and Attorney-General Wise in their respective
constituencies of the Hume and Ashfield. Espe-
pecially the latter, for both of Wise’s narrow vic-
tories over his opponent, Bavister, were in no
small measure due to the energy and influence of
his chairman, Mr. Robson.
N.S.W. Chief Secretary See, at the in-
stance of the Labor - party, contemplates the
appointment of a young and efficient Inspector of
Scaffolding. Yet it was a Ministry comprising
both Lyne and See that appointed the last In-
spector of Scaffolding, and the person selected
was Mr. Luscombe, the then secretary of
the Protection Union. Luscombe was an aged
(about 70) and infirm ex-M.L.A., and his appoint-
ment was received with such derision that it was
soon cancelled.
The Lyne Govt.’s appointment of 12 new
men—mostly nobodies—to N.S.W. Leg. Council
brings that Chamber up to 79 members. But
the country is on the eve, if old promises pre-
vail, of having both Upper and Lower House
numerically cut down, on account of so many
important political matters passing over to
the Federation. Few, except party politicians,
felt a crying need for any accessions at the present
time. There will only be so many the more to kill
a month or two hence.
David Forrest’s new electorate of Ashbur-
ton (W.A.) nominally contains 42 electors, but the
number of resident electors is about four or five.
The rest are absentees with propertv-votes. The
plural property-vote is a great factor in W.A.—
Alick Forrest is a voter in 34 different electorates.
David didn’t go up to his constituency to be
returned because there was nobody there. He
just stayed in Perth and : was elected unopposed.
No one has ever been opposed in Ashburton since
it was a constituency.
“ JFor the lirst time in our history,” cries
a frantic Sydney Telegraph Jingo
correspondent, “ the blood of
Australians has been let in, we
believe, a noble cause. ’’ Which is
a lie, and a slander on the dead.
Australian blood was spilt in the
noble cause of Freedom at Eureka
Stockade at Ballarat many years
ago. There were neither gaudy
uniforms nor pay nor titles nor
promotion to be gained there—
the men of Eureka Stockade
fought for Freedom only, The
latter-day crawler may do his best
to ignore that episode, and the
latter-day Jingo liar may try to
drop it out of history, but Aus-
tralia’s first attempt at war was
a far grander event than anything
done by the contingents that went to
, aid an army of 220,000 in downing an
irregular and ill-trained force of 35,000.
Vic. P.M.G. Watt, when tackled on
the statement that telegraph operators, at
£2OO a year, who went to Africa in khaki, have
been replaced by cheaper men, could only say
that these temporary substitutes at £7B a year
will soon give way to minimum-wage operators at
£oo a year. The recent cry of “ sweating ”in the
Govt, telegraph service would be all the louder if
the public knew that “ messengers ” at 12s. a
week do the work of operators in small coun-
try offices. A messenger enters the
Civil Service as a boy of 16, say,
and increases in wisdom and
stature for years without getting
anywhere near a pound a
week. Some of the “ mes-
senger” telegraphists in
the Vic. Postal Dept,
are weary, grey -
haired boys with a
wife and family
apiece to help them
dissipate their
woekly thirty - five
“ bob ”
“ Way-ed
and found
wanton”:
S. J. Way,
S.A. Chief -
Justice, i n
his Federal-
ist capacity.
In one of Q. Agri-
cultural - Minister Chata-
way’s recent letters to his
paper, Mackay Mkkcury, his
own name crops up something
like 101 times in connection with
groat movements for the public good.
And yet in Brisbane not one man in
5000 knows Chataway by sight, and not one in
a hundred ever even heard of him except in connec-
tion with his —er —administration of the Repur-
chase of Lands Act.
David Storey, the soft-goods member for
Randwick, delivered a denunciation of the Lyne
Ministry one day last week, during which he
received the moral support of Henry Clarke, the
venerable member for Bega. The latter, who
has been a supporter of the Protectionist party
for years, was keenly disappointed at being
passed over when Premier Lyne formed his
Ministry. It is to be hoped that he has a
better reason than this for becoming a subscriber
to the Storey brand of politics.
The M'Lean-Shiels Govt, hopes to get out
of its difficulties after Parliament has re-assembled
by asking for a dissolution, to enable it to appeal
to the country on the question of the immediate
introduction of an old-age pension scheme. It is
admitted that the money is to come from the
general or customs revenue, and before the plan
can be put into operation the customs revenue
will be transferred to the Federal Govt. It is
clear, therefore, that the proposal is a mere sham,
to bolster up a tottering administration.
As a measure of the inadequacy ol the
news received by Australians per cable, not ono
word has been wired out about the army-contrac-
scandals, the dismissal of certain contractors for
dishonesty (through which poor Tommy Atkins
has had to suffer), their reappearance under fresh
names, and the futile efforts of British Ms.P. to
secure their prosecution by the War-office. As a
specimen of the incompetency of the War-office,
take Under-Secretary Powell Williams’ ex-
planation of how they could not trace one “croak"
contractor who had got back under another name.
“ As to Ross,” he explained, in effect, “the diffi-
culty in tra ing him arose in this way. We were
after him for coal, as a matter of fact he was in
under forage, where we never expected to find
him.” Even the gentlemen who supplied whole
regiments with none but left boots remain un-
punished.


It’S a Fact that
THE
i
(Patented
‘VICTOR”
PIANO
in Australasia.)
Over
1300
PIANOS
Sold in
1899.
EASY
TERMS
IF YOU
WISH.
Is the
BEST, CHEAPEST, and
MOST RELIABLE
PIANO
of its class in Australia.
Get
our
Catalogue
The “Victors” can be bought only at
PALING’S
We are
The Leading House for
PIANOS • ORGANS • MUSIC &
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
VIOLINS • CORNETS
BANJOS • MANDOLINS
GUITARS • FLUTES
ACCORDEONS • MOUTN ORGANS, &C-, &C-
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd., 338 George-street, Sydney.
Brisbane Newcastle.
gh
A SLUGGISH LIVER
IS a Living D«atb-
VITADATIO
WILL CURE YOU.
FIVE YEARS’ SUFFERING CURED
BY VITADATIO.
FEELS SPLENDID.
Shepparton, July 31,1899.
Mr. S. A. PALMER (Vitadatio).
Dear Sir.—l have verv great pleasure in certifying to
the MERITS of your VITADATIO. I have suffered for the
past five years, off and on, from JAUNDICE, ENLARGE-
MENT OF THE LIVER, and an INTERNAL GROVVTH
of some kind, which the doctors did not seem to
stand, and all the medicine I took before VITADATIO
had no more effect upon me than so miicli water. My
husband and son induced me to try your VITADAiIO,
and after the second week I had been taking it a quantity
of blood and lumps of stuff, which looked like pieces of
liver, came away. I now feel splendid ;am able to get
about and do my work. . .
I am an old resident of Shepparton, and all my neign-
bors can tell you how bad I was. .
I EARNESTLY RECOMMEND your VITADATIO to
anyone suffering as I did. . „
Yours gratefully,
O. CURREY.
Witness to signature: W. F. FORD, J.P.
I hereby certify to the correctness of the above testi-
monial.—D. 11. K. M‘GUINESS, Wangaratta.
VITADATIO DID MORE THAN ALL
OTHER REMEDIES.
Launceston, July 20, 1894.
Mr. W. WEBBER.
Dear Sir.—For some time past I have had periodical
attacks of a complaint originating from a disordered state
of the liver, and have tried various remedies, but found
nothing to do me so much good as VITADATIO. I was
requested to give it a trial, and, having done so, can only
advise others who suffer from kidney and liver diseases to
also give it a trial.—Your respectfully, NEWEY
Seedsman, Central Charles-street.
The Price of this Medicine is
Large Size, os (id / Small Size, 3s (id.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s 6d.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
IarASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
geuiare
of
Imitations
R’irst in 1888.
wmm
&
Foremost ever since.
The . .
Simplicity
of . •
Handling
un io,p Tyres
makes them popular with all cyclists, and their Durability
makes them the Cheapest.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12 Months.
TTi® Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of A List. Ltd.
Melhourne. Sydney. Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
df
are
only
genuine
when
the
Cover
and
Tube
are
embossed
with
this
ghd
ggp Trade Mark.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
S>S>
&
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3KT.S.-W.
ji.co.,i;td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLEREAGH ST., *7 A
SYDNEY '
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
4* Assurance Society
Limited. •. . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
CROWLEY,
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Manager.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street (facing Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations, j
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager,
Ocean
A ccident
mid
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
(Fidelity Guarantees; lOmp. Ijiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Mkkks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiby, L. A. J kssop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
file Baik of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Oharker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up • ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
--THE-
Colonial Mutual !Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Robbrts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,201,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Polities Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office ;
419 & 421 CORBINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. tM.soo.noo 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4’ool .. £3,196,353 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornlev, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry. Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
hottfloit Office: 1 Itishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNIiY - 273 GEORGE STREET'.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Ilaymarket, Gosford with agency at VVyong), New-
i;.. -1 with Branches throughout Victoria, Soutli
Au-iralia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
JWR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES,
j 2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
warrnambool
Leura, Saturday, June 9, 1 p.ra.
Buninyong, Tu'es., June 12, 5 D.m.
Tyrian, Sat., June 16, 1 p.m. ‘
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., June 12, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyongr, Tues., June 12, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDAUKRG
Peregrine, Sat., June 9, 12 Noon.
Burwah, Tues., June 12, 5 p in.
Leura, Saturday, June 16, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE 1
MACKAY '
TOWNSVILLE J
Peregrine, Sat., June 9, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, June 16, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Carpo
.booked throuirh.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb* Trustees, €*€c<itorS,
AND
Con?paoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED IS7B.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £160,000 0 0
CAM PAL PAID-UP f»0,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £160,000 0 0
Amount, ut Credit of Estates, Trusts,
ami Clients, 81st December, 1899 ... i'0,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors: F. U. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FKEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager, j
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand ent .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Oovi rument .. .. 600,000
Amount, of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital
£3,000,000
(fusenslaßd gating jjompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYEItS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites
etc. For tariff, ap ly to CEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Mclbourrie Office,s2 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS
A'd'ershot, Queensland.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Enrol 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 6,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Tiiomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cotter, Esq.
Richard Bonnie, Esq.
The lion. Charles K. Mackbllar, M.L.O.
Hon. Henry Norm and MacLacrin, M. L.C.
Auditors :
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uthbr, Esq.
London Office-Old Bro.id Street.
With Brandies in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the Uni ed States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its PistOmeis dividends of public companies, and interest
on de entures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britaui ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
no es and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
ban ing bus'ness.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2 i, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. HIJdSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Business Announcements.
Season—l9oo.^>
HAVING made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Ta loring Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Lady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming Mail boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €n)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioi).
Shipping
TN€ AB€RPC€N LIH€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows :
Name of Steamer.
Commander.
MORAVIAN ... A. Simpson
AUSTRALASIAN .T. F. Spalding..
SALAMIS ... A. H. Douglas
Tons
Regr
4650
3700
4650
Leave
Sydney
at 3 p.m.
June 15
July 13
August 3
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dal yet y and Company, Ltd.,
_ AGENTS, O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
l) N
GLAND
VIA AMERICA
by the
American A Australian Line
(A. & A. LINH>
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
ana Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and Sail Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Steamer. Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at 1 p.m.
Leave
Auckland,
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
J 1 "™ ..I 3158 July 4 July 0 July 27
\ml l L i USA ”i 1,168 AllgUßt 1 August 6 August 24
■' l ' NA ~] 4000 August 21) Sept • i
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
1 assengera oan break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, >Snn Francisco, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Passengers hooked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
, Information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of . rt'V, U ‘ Equitable Httildings, George Street,
next G. 1.0 Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 16 Currie Street
Adelaide ; 1U.8.N. Co., Brisbane.
“N. D. L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,063
Passengers.
! bNGI'.RS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (trio
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo.
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCIIEK LLOYD.
g ST ®®M E JER, DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKL & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
icfirnf Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSUEANOE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
Brandt Bros.’ Rapid
HEATER.
For GAS, KFIIOSFXF, or UOOD.
Bam
a
m
UKfc
fgh
df
ghd
fgh
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
Express Passenger Service
—TO AND FROM —
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
RSPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
June 8.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
June 16.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
June 8.
liest tC* Cheapest lioute to Goldfields .
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company and \V. Howard Smith and Sons, subject to
conditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL POUTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON- Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 8 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, Ann EIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weeklv.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
P««*eiif/er ,4 ee.otntnodu.tlnn, A ttentin nee unit
Cuisine tinrlvtilled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, Philo & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.K.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching' at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. ITns Commander.
Leave Sydney.
EASTERN
AIRLIE ...
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIE
EASTERN
... 3600 Winthrop Ellis
... 2000 St. John George
.. 3000 P. T. Reims 1
... 25110 W. G. M'Arthur
... 8600 Winthrop Ellis
June
July
August
September
September
16
12
4
I
22
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ffl‘|luiraith,f!)‘|;acliarn&go.
PROP. LID.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn Ss Co. Propr eta j Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—l 67 Colhns-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombav, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Lpon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every stance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company's Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent


90 King-st., Sydney
(Our Only Australian Address).
OUR LATEST PATRIOTIC BROOCH.
A
Solid Gold Sword, with Red, White and Blue Enamel
Union Jack Flag, 203.
Gold Union Jack Scarf Pins and Pendants, 9s each.
Unique Parisian Pearl and Turquoise Brooch,
set Silver Gilt. Special Value, 5s 6d.
gna
Solid Gold, with raised Bird and Forget-Me-
Not, or with any Name, 10s 6d.
SrSf
Solid Gold Brooch. Plain, ss.
With any Name or Motto, 5s 6d.
fp '
ipitti
m
Gold Two-Bar Pearl Brooch.
9c., 10s Gd ; 15c., 17s 6d.
i
Solid Gold Motto Brooch, 11s Gd.
Also, same style in Souvenir, Regard,
Good Luck, and Mizpah.
S 3
VO,
a?
Solid Gold and Re xl Amethyst, 8s 6d
•. AS,
New Gold Bird Brooch, Bs.
500 other Patterns.
New Gold Bar Brooch, set with real
Amethyst. Special Value, 12s Gd.
--assp
&
OUR LATEST PATRIOTIC
NOVELTIES.
A REALISATION OF RUDYARD KIPLING’S
“ Beggar ”
“A Gentleman in Kharki from down South.”
Solid Gold Sword Pin Chain,
Garnet or Amethyst Heart,
14s 6d.
A
L
L
G
O
O
D
S
F
O
R
W
A
R
D
E
D
P
O
s
T
F
R
E
E
SOLDIERS
OF
THE QUEEN.
SOLID GOLD
Mounted
CHARM.
Containing a
Lovely Photo
of
Major-General
BADEN-
POWELL
(the Hero of
Mafeking)
and another
Famous
General.
6s and 7s 6d
each.
H! s
“5s
This Lovely
STATUETTE
(6in. high)
and
WAR
PENDANT
for .
<2:3.
POST FREE.
SONS
OF
THE EMPIRE.
The
BAPEN-
POWELL
RELIEF OF
MAFEIvING
MEDAL
(size of 2s piece)
with a
Beautiful
UNION JACK
Ribbon Bow.
2s each.
Photo Pendants
of
Lord Roberts,
Kitchener,
French,
Baden-Powell,
and all
other Generals.
2s each.
A WORK OF ART IN FINE IVORY CHINA
And a Double Glass Photo Pendant.
one side Major-General BADEN-POWELL (the Hero of Mafeking).
And on the other one of the famous Generals.
90 King-st,, Sydney
(Our Only Australian Address).
Set with 19 Parisian Pearls or Turquoise, or
assorted Pearls and Turquoise.
liA'fESl NOVELIY
SWOR.D
V Brooch
1
A
L
L
G
O
0
D
S
F
O
R
W
A
R
I)
E
D
P
O
s
T
F
R
E
E
REB°
Gold-plated
on
Solid Silver,
and
Beautifully
Finished.
15c., 1 Diamond and 2 Rubies or Sapphires, 425.
Thousands of other Patterns.
Gold Crescent Brooch.
Set with lovely Pearls or Pearls and Turquoise,
27s (id ; smaller size, 17s (Jd.
Solid Gold Two-lleart and Lover’s Knot Brooch,
set with 1 Diamond and Ruby, 15s.
2 Lovely Pearl-set Gold Birds, 17s Od.
Solid Gold Sword Pin
and Bell, 14s Gd.
Silver Gilt, set with Turquoise, 4s.
No
Solid Gold, with any Name o,
and Raised Wishbone,
Bell or Heart and Chain, 10s Od.
—THE—
ABSENT-MINDED
BEGGAR.
df
Solid Gold Curb Brooch, 4s.
With Heart, ss.
Our New Wild Boar’s Tusk
Brooch.
With Chain and Bell
Pendant.
Silver-mounted,
5s 6d.
Gold-mounted,
14S.
Send for our Illustrated
Slips of Novelties.
8 Lucky Bells, Chain, and Bamboo,
10s Gd.
cap
New Gold Cross Brooch, with Raised
Mizpah and Bird, 11s Gd.
Latest Novelty Gold Brooch, set with Rubies
and Diamonds, 21s.
Solid Gold
Patriotic
Brooch,
with
Infantry
or
Gordon
Highlander
Charm.
17s 6d each.
Gold Charm,
Infantry
or Gordon
Highlander, ss.
With
Pin and Chain,
8s 6d.
2 Gold Bars, set with 2 Diamonds, 17s 6d.
wtfmN
AJtfMMMr
«TC H
Ok? t ONE FROM %
2 ft N'OST'HIEIR •
J
m
PM
Solid Gold Cross, Miz]>ah, and Ivy, 11s 6d.
6 Different Patterns.
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society,
VI CE-PRXjSIDEN ts
The Hon. Sir THOMAS MoILWRAITH, LL.D., K.C.M.G., M.L.A., Queensland.
Sir SAMUEL DAVENPORT, LL.D., K.C.M.G., South Australia.
The Hon. JOHN DOUGLAS, C.M.G., Queensland.
DIRECTORS :
The Hon. WILLTAM ALPIN M.L.C., Queensland.
ERNEST BAGALLAY, Esq., J.P., London.
J. A. BAM, Cape Colony.
The Hon. J. F. BURNS, New. South Wales.
EDWARD HENRY BUTLER, Tasmania.
The Hon. A. M. CAMPBELL, Natal.
Lieut.-General The Hon. Sir ANDREW CLARKE, R.E., G.C.M.G., C. 8., C.1.E., London.
Sir SAMUEL DAVENPORT, LL.D., K.C.M.G., South Australia.
C. C. DE VILLIERS, Cape Colony.
The Hon. ALFRED DOBSON, Q.C., Solicitor-General, Tasmania.
Lieut.-Colonel GEORGE FERGUSON, South Australia.
SEYMOUR THORNE GEORGE, New Zealand.
BENJAMIN WESLEY GREENACRE, M.L.A., Natal.
J. B. HARCOURT, New Zealand.
HENRY HENTY, Victoria.
The Hon. Sir ROBERT G. W. HERBERT, G.C.8., London.
The Hon. ROBERT JAMESON, M.L.C., Natal.
General Manager: LESLIE J. PARK, A.I.A.
Assistant General Manager : A. F. CROMBIE.
The Hon. J. F. LEVIEN, M.P., Victoria.
The Hon. Sib JAMES G. LEE STEERE, K.C.M.G., Speaker of the Legislative Assembly,
Western Australia.
The Hon. WILLIAM THORLEY LOTON, M.L.C., Western Australia.
H. BYRON MOORE, Victoria.
Dr. EDWARD E. MORRIS, Melbourne University, Victoria.
The Hon. GEORGE McLEAN, M.L.C., New Zealand.
The Hon. ALBERT NORTON, M.L.C., Queensland.
The Hon. Sir JAMES PREN DERG AST, New Zealand.
The Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C., New South Wales.
The Hon. Sir GEORGE SHENTON, Kt., President of the Legislative Council, Western
Australia.
BRUCE SMITH, New South Wales.
LUDWIG WIENER, Cape Colony.
HERBERT WILMAN, Cape Colony.
The Hon. WALTER HORATIO WILSON, M.L.C., C.M.G., Queensland.
The Hon. AGAR WYNNE, M.L.C., Victoria.
Actuary: JAMES PULLAR, F.F.A.
Consulting Actuary: ROBERT THOMSON, F.I.A.
PROGRESS of the SOCIETY : 1873—1899,
FUNDS.
Date.
31st March, 1875
31st March, 1880
31st March, 1885
31st December, 1890
31st December, 1895 .
31st December, 1899
NEW BUSINESS.
Amount. Period.
£2,864
£103,551
£471,353 13 years ended 31st March, 1877
£1 196,414 12f years ended 31st December, 1899
£1,923,835
£2,385,266
Sum Assured.
... £10,421,671
... £15,053,037
Total New Business since Commencement of Society exceeds
Twenty-Five Millions Sterling (£25,474,708),
Being an Average of about a MILLION
for each Year of its existence.
Claims Paid immediately on Proof of Death and Title.
Policies kept in force out of surrender value so long as there is sufficient to pay One Quarterly Premium.
The Society is established throughout on the Federal Principle and thus secures for its Members the Widest Scope
for Remunerative Investment.
Chief Office for New South Wales: -|O5 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
A.. ROSS Ji ILJLER, Resident Secretary,


BUYERS of road Bicycles- find better service and
greater value in the EASY RUNNING
MASSEY - HARRIS than in any other Bicycle.
What we say they’ll do they do do.
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters— Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
T J M'BRIDE, General Manager for Australasia,
MELBOURNE.
F. L. BISHOP, Manager for New South Wales,
SYDNEY.
Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
lOfUiCQza CoOgl).
IDEAL TYRES
' Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY, ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
tj a i m n RICHMOND, VICTORIA;
ideal lyre Coy., andchristchurch,n.z.
%ed ftird 'Cyeles are %ight«*
Because they re built right. It is as reasonable to expect your local plumber to manufacture a hish-
grade watch, as to turn out a high-grade bicycle with a set of fittings which can be purchased for a few
shillings.
Each workman in the Bed Bird factory is an expert in one part only, and his work is superviseJ
by a corps of 85 inspectors.
There are many reasons for Bed Bird Excellence.
Manufactured, Sold
and Guaranteed by
Cfoe 6oold Bicycle Co., Ctd.
Factories:—
Brantford, Canada.
Hgents—everywhere.
: <nwoNVHQ vviftvivwjsny
64 King-st., Sydney, Head 0, -ice in Australia
261 Coluns-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st., Wellington, N.Z.
PRICES:
£lO, £l5, £2O, and £3O.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Metal—Maid of Kent nag Duke of Kent, winner
of Exeter Stakes (6 fur.) at A.J.C. June meeting (Rand-
wick) on Saturday, ran fourth to his stable-mate, Dandy,
in recent Royal Stakes, and as more than one “trier”
rarely comes from same quarter, observant punters
singled out the Duke as a “ good thing.” Books and
public made him a hot favorite when betting opened, but
as the proper people didn’t appear to be coming with
their “ bit,” he receded to an outside figure. By-and-by
after being nibbled at quietly, Duke of Kent was rushed,
and he left the paddock—branded the best of good things
- —at threes. So it turned out, for, despite interference
that seemed to render his efforts hopeless, he shot forth
near the finish and won handsomely from Yellow and
Black (owned by those who had Merlo'olas) and the crack
country performer, Myosotis, as named. Owner of Duke
of Kent—" A. Stanley,” a big punter whose ill-luck on the
turf is frequently commented on—got him for 200 gs.
quite recently, and netted a good deal more than that
sum on Saturday.
» * * •
In Saturday’s Steeple at Randwick, the winner
(Brokerage—by the Broker—Hermitage), with list, up,
won all the way from such good cattle as Minister for
Lands Hassall’s Crusado (11.0) and H. L. Mackellar’s
Taipo (10.10). Brokerage took his jumps like a true
hunter, never making the semblance of a mistake at any
time, and stamped himself as far and away the best
’chaser Sydney has seen for many a day. The new course
at Randwick is catching on in great style—particularly
the hill at the back, which, lends a true cross-country
appearance to the whole thing.
» • * *
Backers of the Deemster (Hurdles) and Cre-
mona (Ellesmere Stakes) at Randwick, Saturday, were
lucky in having to collect. Donald—property of Lands
Minister Ilassall—should have won former event. He
often jumped slovenly, lost several lengths at the mile-
post through mulling, blundered again at the 6-fur., and
was then only a head behind when passing the judge. In
Ellesmere Stakes, Dandy’s rider kept in the rear until the
last half-mile, and then it was a big struggle through the
crowd. Kelso’s top-notcher—humping top weight (9.5)
showed himself equal to the occasion until he struck
Cremona, when a neck-and-neck battle resulted in the
latter’s favor by a long head. Dandy’s effort evoked
admiration from every man jack on the course.
» » * •
“Guido ” : Glaring instances of “flesh of one,
fowl of another,” were shown at two recent meetings at
Randwick. Tatt.’s Club stewards challenged the running
of Fairy Prince in Winter Stakes—and failed to notice the
indifferent exhibition of Oarberra, who finished nowhere
in same race, after easily winning Rosehill May Handicap
previous Saturday. S.T.C. stewards questioned Royal
King’s running in Novice Handicap, but overlooked the
§oor display in T.O. Handicap of Alice Mostyn, who five
ays previously won Tatt.’s Welter Handicap; and the
erratic running of Crosslake, who finished last in Tatt.’s
Welter, ran nowhere in T.O. Handicap, and two days
later was second in Birthday Cup. As a further illustra-
tion of how clubs bestow their favors, Alix’s running may
be cited. She easily won Rosehill Stewards’ Mile, and
ran nowhere a week later in Tatt.’s Mile Welter, but only
five days afterwards easily won T.O. Handicap. In ques-
tioning Royal King’s running, which writer believes was
fair and square, another is added to the many instances
of an owner, who is. not in the inner circle, being made
the victim of a pretentious effort to check suspicious
things.
» • * •
Not generally known that Cast Iron’s first win-
ning bracket was gained in a hack-race at Quirindi,
N.S.W. He is only a 14’2, and full brother to Plain
Bill 11., who has won numerous races in northern N.S.W.,
and half-brother to the great galloway sprinter, Luther,
now racing in Vic. Another item of interest is that Cast
Iron is trained by Jim Smith, who won A.J.O. Metrop.
and Summer Cup on Secundus and The Gem respectively.
• • * *
“Punter”; Gush in various papers re A.J.C.’s
action with regard to tote and double shops driving
leviathan bookie Oxenham out of the country sickens one.
If A.J.O. succeeded in wiping these parasites out alto-
gether that body would deserve a monument as high as
Kosciusko. Backers have no hope with them—they have
so many “ stiff ’uns ”in the bag. One Sydney city shop
seems to have got the grip of three or four big stables and
rarely dabbles in “ scrouchers.” Writer has seen long
odds offered against at the shop referred to when another
Ikey, not in the know, would cramp the prices or ask for
odds himself. It’s always the thing to call at this place
before going out to the course, as one gets a good line by
the figures on the board. Other shops operate more or
less similarly, but not so extensively.
» * * *
Paul Pry’s victory in Adelaide Birthday Cup
stamps him as a great horse—he carried 10.5 home in a
mud-heap. It is a great pity such a fine animal is a
gelding. Although the books would not lay more than
10’s, he paid £l4 14s. on the tote.
* * • •
Evidently the Adelaide people were altogether
wrong in their estimate of Gungadin’s chance for last
V.R.O. Derby. T’other day, in the Birthday Cup, when
the colt was sandwiched between Paul Pry and La Cara-
bine, they were giving him 351 b. and 181 b. respectively.
Had the race been 100yds. longer La Carabine would have
beaten the other two handsomelv.
* * * •
A.R.C. Cup meeting ended at Victoria Park
(Adelaide) Saturday. Attendance was big and £13,516 15s.
(£1305 15s. less than same day last year) went through
machine. Cup (If miles) produced a most exciting
finish. La Carabine (9.7 up) displayed marvellous
stamina. Catching Gunga-Din (who looked like winning
easily) near the post, as if shot from a catapult, the Car-
bine—Oratava mare snatched the race out of the fire.
Time (3.6£) evidences that the pace was sound from end
to end. La Carabine was made a hot pot. Tote showed
£2549 invested ; dividend, £ll6s.
* • * *
S.A. Birthday meeting furnished another big
tote div. of £6O odd. Against the winner, Trapper, the
books only offered 20’s. An anti-tote movement will
never succeed in S.A.
* * * *
The trotting rule re declaration of overweight
appears to have fallen into desuetude in M.L., but a
couple of recent happenings will tend to make those con-
cerned more careful. It has been customary for jocks—
some of them jumbos—to get on the scale, show that they
weigh over (say) 10st., and then hop off without declaring
how much they are over the required weight. Thus, a
14st. man could ride or drive a nag that “ wasn’t having
any ” although apparently doing its best; while later on
with a 10 stoner as pilot he could make a race of it.
Four stone makes a mighty difference. Verily, there is
no end to horse-rogueries.
* * * *
The death of ,W. R. Wilson is in one sense not
such a great loss to the turf as some horse-
reporters would make out. Of late years
punters got but little encouragement to lay
odds on hot favorites from the St. Albans stable,
nor did any of Wilson’s best horses win big races, year
after year, like the old-time cracks. Strathmore, Zalinski,
Havoc, Carnage, Wallace, Aurum, Bobadil—not one of
them became a popular identity. They had bad tempers,
bad habits, bad feet or bad luck, or something, and their
reigns Were short. Wallace is remembered as a brilliant
and always trustworthy 3-year-old, but he didn’t train-
on. In the matter of running good horses when they
were not fit or couldn’t stay the distance, Mr. Wilson com-
pared unfavorably with such owners as the late James
White. All the same, he was a sport who desired to
maintain a fair average respect for himself, and as a
breeder in particular he deserved better fortune than he
got.
6 * » * •
The ruling passion of Horsetralia. As the
Moravian, with the mounted eontingenters, made fast to
Melb. wharf, the first pressman aboard was rushed by a
dozen of the soldiers. “Here you are," they cried,
“ come and see Bill. Bill, here’s a newspaper-man—he’ll
tell you.” And what did the bed-ridden Bill want to
know—what w'as the first question on returning to his
Fatherland 1 Bill wanted to know “ Who won the Sydney
Cup?”
* • » «
Cabled that Pi ince of Wales’ Diamond Jubilee
got away with English Derby. Same nag appropriated
Newmarket Stakes and Two Thousand Guineas earlier in
the season. “Tummy” also annexed Liverpool Grand
National a few weeks back, thus establishing a record ;
no owner ever before credited himself with all those events.
Latest makes two Derbies the Prince has secured with
full brothers; Persimmon, who won in ’9(l, being the
other. Both are by St. Simon from Perdita. This is un-
equalled in the history of the 'Ome turf.
* * * •
Said that Prince of Wales’ Ambush IT. (winner
of recent Grand National) was once sold for £4O, but bad
hocks scared the buyer who would have none of him.
Ambush 11. did not show in a race till he was 4yrs. old.
Told that Ambush’s dam was given in exchange for a cow.
To cap the whole thing properly we should hear that
Ambush’s sire went to the man game enough to buy a
halter to lead him home.
• • * •
The Prince of Walos is getting too much luck
with his racehorses of late. It may lure him on to
attempt the beautiful game of “breaking the ring,” and
that’s the time when the luck changes apd the plunger is
sorely tempted to sacrifice a few scruples. Providence,
having a due regard for the Chosen, is invariably rough
on all who meditate the destruction of Ikey Mo.
» * * *
Said that The Grafter was on sale for 2000
guineas up to the time of his victorious running in the
City and Suburban. Which looks as though Brewer, any-
how, didn’t feel very confident of the Mein. Clip winner's
success. As a matter of fact, the public 'fancied the Aus-
tralian horse on the strength of his speedy performance
in the Cambridgeshire last October. Oxenham’s Syerla
finished about five lengths only behind his stable com-
panion.
* • * *
“Cornstalk”: lie whilom Melb. Cup winner
The Grafter’s success in recent English City amt Suburban
Handicap, for which another Australian nag (Sverla), from
same stable, and owned by “ Oxy,” was made favorite.
Files by mail indicate that there were “ructions” over
the matter —at least, that is the word used by London
Sportsman, which professes not to understand the affair,
and states that the backing of Syerla was past its com-
prehension, for, “if the clever section thought Syerla
superior. to The Grafter at the weights, it could only be a
reason for backing neither, as on no form that he has ever
shown could Syerla be made out a winner.” The more
information we have the more puzzling does the whole
thing become. Those immediately connected assert that
The Grafter was devoid of condition, and carried little or
no stable-money ; yet he started second favorite in one of
the biggest English events, and erstwhile cash-bookmaker
“ Bob " Sutton netted £20,000, while Joe Thompson alone
laid £lO,OOO against. Oxenham’s money went on Syerla—
a fact which is causing Australian sports to anticipate
some interesting developments when the leviathan pen-
ciller has time to look round him “ down under.”
* * # *
Donald Wallace had a Carbine story of his own.
He was riding down to the course one day in a railway
carriage full of young fellows who looked like suburban
clerks. There had been much talk of Carbine’s “sore
toe,” and one of the youths was saying : “ He ain’t fit.
He can’t do it —Wallace himself ain’t got a cent on him.”
Others doubted. They thought “ Old Jack ” might come
out all right. “ Look here,” said the first, “ I lay any-
one 10 to Ihe don’t do it to-day. There you are —10 to
1.” Wallace, who joked rarely and with difficulty, said :
“ I’ll take that in pounds.” “No fear,” said the plunger,
“in shillin’s.” The bet was booked with great formality,
Wallace posing as “ Mr. Smith,” and when the race was
run and Carbine had won, Donald found himself con-
fronted by the youth of the railway carriage, who slipped
a half sovereign into his hand, saying : “ Here’s yer half
jim, Mr. Wallace. I put my last shirt button on Carbine
when I see you had confidence in him.” Donald grinned
meekly, but fobbed the half sov.
» » * *
“Jab.”: Sydney fight-followers were again,
last week, treated to the spectacle of a pug. refusing to
go on with his contract because the “ gate ” didn’t reach
“ swelled head ” anticipations, and hundreds had to go
home disgusted. Similar happening occurred at same
place recently. Wonder how long those who keep the
game going will stand this ? Principals in latest instance
were Dawson and “ The Poet.” Latter was eager, - but
Dawson didn’t take to it. Cribb undertook to fill the gap
with an eight-rounds spar, but he can’t spar—fighting is
his game—so the show was a sorry one.
* * * •
“Nulla”: Aboriginal pugs, are rare birds.
“ Warrigal,” now fighting in Sydney novice-tourneys, is
as game as they make ’em, but not big enough. A good
’un in his day (Mungia Hippi) died suddenly at Wirra-
billa (N.S.W.) recently. He was born at Gundablown
Station (N.S.W.) nearly 50 years ago, and spread his life
over the Barwon, Collarendabri, Mogil-Mogil, Mungindi,
and Moree, droving and on sheep-stations. Mungia was
a tip-top sample—Oft. high and powerfully built, ap ideal
athlete to look at. None of his race and very few whites
ever licked him with the “ mauleys.” Mungia’s record
and experiences would form capital reading if they could
be got hold of.
• » • *
Writer saw Peter Jackson in town t’other day,
and had a chat with him anent pugs, and other things
Yankee. Peter isn’t gone on the country, and says few
of its first-flight fighters would have been considered top-
notchers here in the early part of last decade. Most
matches are “ arranged,” and unless a man will let himself
be “ used” ’Murkan managers don’t want him. The
“oulddart” element finds most favor with followers of
THE DUNLOP TYRE CO.'S TURN-OUT AT MELBOURNE ON tSrd MAY.
bruising struggles, and the more “ Irish " a pug. has in
his blood the more chances he gets—as instance Peter
Maher, who has been licked a dozen times, perhaps, and
is still allowed to hang on to the front rank, A colored
man has a hard row to hoe, no matter how circumspect
or inclined to knuckle under he may be. Talking of
that peculiar development known to the cognoscenti as
the “ cauliflower-car,” and brought about by frequent
bashes in the shape of swings (right and left) on the aural
organ, writer mentioned that it was strange the big black
escaped unscathed in this way. Peter smiled broadly
am! said somehow or other they couldn’t land on his head
anywhere, and only once did his face stop one, and that
on the forehead. “ The bingey was my weak point, they
said,” continued Peter, “ and most of them met disaster
trying to reach there.”
» • ♦ *
“ Q.” : Been wading through bust mail’s Yankee
papers. The U.S. bruising champions are full of modesty.
World-champion Jeffries : “ As soon as 1 attach Corbett’s
scalp to my belt 1 will make a match with M’Coy.” M'Coy
gets back : “ I will gladly meet Jeffries ten days after his
fight wit h Corbett, ami will make him regret the meeting
throughout the rest of bis life.” Corbett: “ M’Coy shows
his fine judgment in selecting me as a winner over .Jeff-
ries ” (M'Coy hod tipped Corbett). “ lie knows a clever
quick Ilian in good condition can boat a big, slow truck-
horse like Jeffries." Later Sharkey was matched with
M'Coy and mouthed this : “ He is in great luck to have
the match with me at all. He got out of his last battle
alive, but hasn’t done much fighting since. He will do a
great deal less when I get through with him.” Uncle
Sam’s scrapper does throw bouquets at himself.
Following up lii.s successes ovor Anderson a few
weeks ago, old man Mick Dooley shut Bill Doherty up in
eight rounds at Fremantle (W. A.) the other day. ' Fight
is referred to as the fiercest seen in the West for years
Day previously Doherty and Felix were matched in
Sydney to meet July 1(1 for the pug supremacy of Aus-
tralia and £lOO aside, which was to be increased to £l5O
if Doherty went under -a happening his backer (Steve
Bledsoe, of Kalgoorlie) considered remote. Each side put
up £4O forfeit. Looks as if the Doherty party will back
down unless they know a bit more than shows on the
surface.
* * # *
Pigeon-shooting match at Botany (Sydney) last
week between O. Massey (Yass), champion of N.S.W.,
and A. \\. Eales (Duekentield) for £5O a side, created a
lot of interest. Conditions, 100 birds each) 30yds. rise.
Kales won with 92 to 89. Eales was very deadly with the
first barrel throughout, and, though only a yenmgster
(comparatively), toed the mark like a veteran. All the
birds were good. Eales- killed 32 straight off without a
miss. Winner’s achievement is full of merit; he never
engaged in a big match before, hut has always been a
consistently brilliant performer from 32£vds. ' He went
into the contest brimful of confidence, anil didn’t weaken
onee. Previously Massey had won the N.S.W. supremacy
from a Dig field; beat “Ohud” Gorrick at Yass, then
settled Neeld, of Wyalong (“ Lockslev ”), grassing 96 out
of 100, and afterwards easily accounted for W. Best in a
“ double-rise” match with first-class birds. The styles of
Eales and Massey were widely different. Eales would go
to the mark, get a sight, sweep round the traps, and
cry “pull” firmly. Atasse.v held the barrel up above his
head, and, bringing it down to sight, would give the
signal without further move.
* • * .
In Sydney, last week, champion billiard-player
Fred Weiss gave S. Woods 900 in 1500 and had things all
his own way. He knocked up breaks of 223, 82, 74, 157,
and 55, besides several thirties and forties ; his average
(at close of play) for each lift-up of the cue was 36.73.
Woods’ performance fell far short of his reputation ; his
best was 34. At close of first night’s play scores stood :
Weiss (with an unfinished 74), 750 ; Woods, 1015. Second
evening Weiss again shaped brilliantly, compiling runs of
102, 82, 76, 63, 60, and 59. Average was 33. Weiss won
with 245 to spare. Woods wasn’t in it at any stage.
••* ‘ •
Thirteenth inter-’varsity eight-oar event on the
Parramatta (Sydney), Saturday, proved a soft snap for
Sydney, which won by 20 lengths irr hollow fashion. Only
other crew racing was Adelaide. Plague scared Melb. off
for the first time in the history of the race. In first
100yds. Adelaides met with a mishap which lost them a
few lengths, hut made no difference in the result. Form
offthe winners—though they had the game to themselves
all the way—was nothing to boast about. Of 13 races
rowed Sydney ’Varsity has 7 to its credit, Melb. 4, and
Adelaide 2. Sydney and Melb. have each been repre-
sented 11 times, and Adelaide 9.
Fourth round of Sydney senior-grade local foot-
ball competitions played Saturday drew big crowds every-
where. 3000 looked on at N. Sydney-University match
on Agricultural Society’s Grounds, which was close-
latter won by a goal and a try to a goal from the field.
Eastern suburbs squelched Balmain by one point only and
Western suburbs beat S. Sydney at Parrama«a Dya
penalty-goal to nil. Glebe went under to >ewtown Dy
5 points to nil. These results have placed _
ultimate winners in a hopeless fix, as all pre\ ious y
beaten teams went under.
* * * *
West Torrens and N. Adelaide, two of last year’s
weakest teams, are now level for top in S. A. foot Dai ■
The other day, the former beat S. Adelaide by s f' en
to one. All this has been brought about by the electo-
rate system.
The Sydney daily papers are fighting hard the re-
action that is setting in in favor of free speech and
in favor of the able and candid W. A. Holman as
a concomitant, and carefully suppress all favorable
mention of that politician. As an instance, the
incident at Miss Spence’s Effective-A oting meet-
ing of Wednesday, last week. The ballot-papers,
with the 13 names, were given out to the audience,
when a fat, important-looking personage arose and
protested against Holman’s name being allowed
to remain on the list, in view of his “disgraceful
anti-war utterances. The fat gentleman was,^ how-
ever, promptly put down with cries of “He s
worth 10 of you ! ” &c., and, when the poll was
taken, Holman was found to be at the top, beating
Barton, Reid, and the rest of the bunch, and
was, moreover, the only man elected on the “first
choice” with a “quota.” S.M. Herald reported
the meeting at length, simply mentioning that
Holman was one of the eleoted, and not mention-
ing Fatman. The Telegraph gave even more
space to the meeting, but altogether ignored the
election rather than report that Holman headed
the poll. The meeting, by the way, took place on
the evening of the day when the papers reported
the no-confidence vote at S. Wyalong against
Holman. At that meeting there were barely 180
present, of whom but 70 or 80 voted ; but nobody
cognisant of who represents the Telegraph and
E. News at Wyalong was surprised at the sort of
report which appearod in those papers. Another
gross instance of journalistic suppression was the
manner in which the S.M. Herald (whose reporter
seems to have been the only pressman present)
burked Gov. Beauchamp’s remarks concerning
The Bulletin at last meeting of Sydney Univer-
sity Debating Society.
It is Breakfast Time.
“Don’t want any.” “It’s time to go to work.”
“Leave me alone.”
There you are, limp as a
rag, lying in bed, when
there’s good, cold cash
waiting for you at your
work. But your head is
heavy, your eyelids are
lead. Your tongue tastes
bad, and you don’t (pare.
It’s liver liver liver.
And stomach —stomach—
stomach. You don’t know
it, but it’s so. There is
just one remedy that will
put vim in you, by giving you clean bowels, a
healthy stomach, a lively liver, and blood that is
rich and red, and don’t stagnate. It is Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. They put an appetite
in your stomach, a move to your
bowels, life in your liver, and the
thing that builds bone, flesh and
nerve in your blood. They will
make you sleep at night, wake in the
morning, eat your meals, and work
with pleasure. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills get at the
cause; they start at
the foundation of the
disease; they cure
when other remedies
fail. “For the past
six or seven years I
have suffered from that awful complaint, arising
from the liver,” writes Mrs. A. C. Cufley, of Rich-
mond (Vic.), “and always had that weary, run-
down feeling, and my complexion was sallow. I
would get up in the morning more tired than
when I went to bed. Besides this weakness I had
nasty pains in the head, also a disordered stomach.
There were also times when I had to take to my
bed, and lost all energy in my household duties.
I tried many remedies, but they did not do me
good. A friend of mine, and also my daughter,
advised me to try Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills,
which I did, and I have received great benefit
from their use. lam free from pain and that
run-down feeling ; my liver is right, and I feel as
well as I did before that terrible complaint
fastened upon me.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a perfect blood purifier, and a positive
cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipation,
headaches, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and
for female ailments. Sold by chemists and store-
keepers, Is. per bottle, or six bottles Gs. 6d.
Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.
(Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Packed in amber bottles, and the full name blown
thereon.
■ ♦
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
Sydney plague-figures look very insignifi-
cant when we read that in Calcutta, during the
last week in April, there were 267 deaths from
plague, and 285 fresh cases !


V
A “ SPANKING
Good . . •
Tobacco!
t
Be sure
you ask for it
IT BEATS THEM ALL.
_l3
The JEWELLERY COMPANY
187 Pitt-street, Sydney
(directly opposite Civil Service Stores).
187 Pitt-street, Sydney
latest war souvenirs.
NSW. Lancers’ Brooch, with Enamel Flags.
IN SOLID GOLD. Price 18/6.
r=r
GOLD Lee-Metford Cartridge Brooches. Price 11/6.
1000
Different Gold War Souvenirs
Choose from at 137 Pitt Street.
MAFEKING’S HERO
Hit
Baden-Powell
Gold Pendants. Price 7/6.
GOLD Lee Metford Cartridge
Charms or Gold Pins. Price 5/6.
N.S.W. Lancers’ GOLD Hat
Charm. Price 3/-.
With Gold Chains and Pins
attached, Price 8/6.
For more Than One Hundred genre
3&M
SOAP
has maintained its supremacy in the face of the whole
world’s competition. Such a record could not he
achieved without cause. Temporary successes are com-
paratively easy, but for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man who has once tried Pears Soap in the foim of a
Shaving Stick wants no other, he takes it with him .on all
his journeys. The woman who travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
“ matchless for the complexion.”
Balmain (Sydney) municipal council has
decided to revert tt> the old plan
household refuse only once a week. This woul in t
matter much if Balmain were and the
Balmainiacs prevented from mm ng vn t\ HS .
cleaner neighbors. Still, as th - , Sdnev
largest and most thickly-populated of the by miev
outskirts, and ba, already ®n.nb»,ed d» quoda of
•nlamie-cases there here occurs a typical oppm
5y for the Health Board to enforce its
mithority-not upon a few individuals, but upon a
community of many thousands—especially as it is
reasonably to be supposed that the system which
3t 9 die dirt-boxes neglects also every other
sanitary precaution which costs money.
Samuel Beecher, cousin of Henry Ward
Beecher, has had three wives in the past year,
His first wife died inside that period, after 50
years of matrimony. He married another, who
died in a few weeks. Being “unable to endure
the loneliness,” he has taken a third.
Blunders at peace-manoeuvres are over-
looked in the British army, and carelessness in
the performance of field duties treated as a venial
offence, whereas a German officer, who, owing to
a social entertainment, was a little late at
autumn manoeuvres, was at once removed from his
command, and afterwards placed on the retired
list.
A Sunday ball was held at Mafeking in
February, says London Times. After that, who
can wonder the Boers were—-beaten.
Sydney tvphoid cases for first quarter
1898, 339 ; 1899, 306 ; 1900, 533. Increase due to
individual filth and municipal fatigue.
More Q. “ commissions ! ” More traps to
catch votes ! More bones to greedy dogs ! More
Bribes to political underlings ! More scandal!
More jobbery ! In a word, more Queensland.
“ We will have a good cheque in the end,
if we go on as we have been going lately. We are
allowed £1 for (commandeering) oxen and Is. per
head for sheep,” writes N.S.W. Bugler Daly from
S’Africa.
When Roberts began his move the French
colonel Villebois Mareuil, (since killed) sent word
to Cronje that he was in danger of being
surrounded, and the reply of the Boer commander
was, “Tell the foreigner that whilst he was still
in his mother’s womb I was a fighting-man.”
Sydney D.T.’s Melbourne correspondent:
Chairman Fitzgibbon, and the majority of those con-
nected with the Melb. Metrop. Board of Works, are loyal
to the verge of ridiculousness, as witness the chairman s
cables of congratulation in the name of Victoria. Strange
to say, no mention has been made of any replies. Perhaps
the Queen has mislaid hers, if it ever reached her.
John King Lethbridge, who died at St.
Mary’s (N.S.W.) recently, was a son of the
youngest daughter of Capt. Philip Gidley Ling,
second Governor of N.S.W. He was born in
Nepean district in ’32, and held the positions of
coroner and returning officer in the Nepean for
almost 40 years. Amongst his coronary duties
were the inquests in connection with Butler s
victims.
Writes Mr. Marshall Lyle :
I see it again printed that I agitated for the release of
the notorious negro convict, W. King, now awaiting trial.
I never did anything of the sort for reasons I cannot state
now, but maybe able to explain later on. I have, how-
ever, agitated a good deal tor the detention of dangerous
criminals, which is a very different thing to releasing
them When I read these oft-repeated misstatements I
feel something like Herbert Spencer when people refer to
him as “ a distinguished Socialist.’
N.S.W. Govt, has cabled Chamberlain
asking him to expedite the Pacific cable. "I he
sooner the better. Two cables are better than
one. _ an d perhaps when the news comes
through America 6ur cables will no longer
be composed exclusively by a duke and a
footman. Even a cowboy’s cable would be an
agreeable change. Between the dukes yarn and
the cowboy’s yarn, Australia would have a chance
of getting at the truth occasionally without wait-
ing for the mail.
“Banjo ” Paterson and Frank Wilkinson
are the only first-rank Australian war correspon-
dents who bid fair to last out the campaign.
Lambie and Spooner are dead, and MacDonald
and Reay have been invalided home. In the case
of Lambie, no insurance was effected before he
left, and the Age, Telegraph and Advertiser
had to make up £lOOO out of their own pockets.
The fund raised by his comrades to perpetuate his
memory amounts to £2lO, most of the sum having
been subscribed in Melbourne.
Bv the death of W. R. Wilson, Australia
loses”one of its straightest sportsmen. There was
no “ waiting for a slice of the sweep about him.
A few years ago, an employe at tjie Australia
Hotel drew one of his horses in a big consulta-
tion,” and approached Mr. Wilson with an oner of
so much to nothing. “ No,” said the horse-owner,
“I don’t do that sort of thing. 11l try to win,
but am afraid I’ve got no chance this time, J. 11
lay you £5O to nothing about it, and will be very
glad to have to pay you.”
That rev. Jingo, the somewhat chamele-
onic George Walters, got a surprise the other night
in his own church when he had Miss Spence, of
effective-voting fame, to preach for him in the big
Oddfellows’ Temple to a crowded audience. though
Mr Walters had denounced War—war m the
&bsU<*ot-u. the past, he has failed to denounce
tins particular war, his judgment in the matter
having possibly been disturbed by the overwhelm-
ing Jingo howl around him. .Miss Spence had
been so busy with her own particular fad that no
one had managed to gather whether she knew
there was a war in progress or not; and anyhow
her subject, “ Soul and Body,” was a pretty safe-
looking and far-away kind of theme. But the
gallant old lady—having somehow worked round
to the power of mere words for evil—instanced
the recently much bandied-about Suzerainty.
“For that word,” she said, “our nation has
dipped its hands in blood; is embarked on a
costly and cruel war over matters that might
easily and satisfactorily have been settled by arbi-
tration ! ” Amidst the storm of applause which
this observation evoked Miss Spence smiled
blandlv all round while the flabbergasted Walters
remonstrated feebly with, “ Hush !—hush .—this
is a church /” It was mighty convenient, just
then, to remember that the hall m which dances
are held to rake in the shekels is also by way of
being a “ sacred edifice.”
Melbourne Herald item :
The question of the alleged absence of loyalty on the
art of three employees of the Melbourne and Metropoli-
an Board of Works will he discussed at next Tuesday s
leetinc of the Board. The matter will be brought up by
report of the Officers and Servants’ Committee, which
eads as follows “ Having been informed that m the
emonstration of loyalty which employees of the Board
sked leave and were permitted, to make in the Hoard
Loom, at the Board’s last meeting, in rejoicing at the
elief of Mafeking, three employees—one naturalised and
wo alien—occupying one room refused the request of
heir fellows to take part. And having called the mdivi-
luals and heard their explanations, which confirmed the
nformation given, the committee deems such conduct
insvmpathctic with and disrespectful to this British
onimunitv, in which the employees in question have
,een accorded equal favor with British people : and re-
ommends that they be requested to resign their ernploy-
uent within a week fropi this date, or otherwise that
heir services be dispensed with.”
n view of which, will the crawlsome Board please
nsert in its form of agreement with its employes
bat their duties include rejoicing to order? For
f it engaged them only to do certain work, with
be tacit understanding that they will give satis-
action if they do it well, and then sacks them for
not performing certain duties that it never told
bom to do ( i.c. , for not “rejoicing”) it is playing
i prettv mean game. And having thus placed it
m record that no such thing as freedom of thought
Mid (speech exists *in Victoria (men don’t get
sacked in England for following the views of John
Morh-v and Sir Edward Clarke) except so far
as Fftzddbbon’s Board of Bigotry and Stinks can t
prevenCit existing, will Fitzgibbon and his Board
cease*' bragging m future about that alleged
freedom? Presumably the Board would have
sacked three Britishers in like manner if they
didn’t “ rejoice it surely couldn’t make fish of
one and fowl of another. And then it would have
gassed as joyously as ever about how thought is
free and speech is free in all the British dominions,
and how the flag, &c., &c., and the glorious palla-
dium of Liberty, &c., and the inestimable boon
of See., Slc ., &c.
Cutcliffe Hyne, in “ Captain Rettle,^
didn’t overdraw the horrors of the “ cattle-boat.
The Anerley, Newcastle (N.S.W.) to Durban,
with 303 head, had, through ‘the recent heavy
weather, lost 180 by the time she got to Jervis
Bay.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
’ The war sentiment of S’Africa is every-
where in an inextricable tangle. Previous to the
Duke of Norfolk’s arrival as an Imperial Yeoman
at Capetown, a meeting of local Catholics was held
to arrange a “ hearty welcome ” to him as head of
the English R.C.’s. The Boers, by their desecra-
tion of the R.C. altars at Dundee, had done their
best to incline the hearts of the Duke’s co-religion-
ists towards him, nevertheless Dr. Colgan, a
leading priest, made a strong pro-Boer protest
against any honoring of the noble amateur soldier,
and finally he (Colgan) left the hall with twenty
or more sympathisers.
That good Democrat, Sangster, Vic.
M.L.A. for Port Melbourne, met with a brutish
reception t’other night from the Jingoes. Al-
though Sangster always opposed the sending of
Australian contingents.to S’Africa, he neverthe-
less wanted, at the meeting, to express his glad-
ness that Mafeking had been relieved. He was
howled down, however, and it was proposed that
he be fired out and jumped upon as a pro-Boer.
But the audience eagerly swallowed Purves
fustian, and there was apparently nobody present
to remind that orator that it isn’t so long since he
went in for “ cutting the painter ’ that holds our
cockle-shell to the old barge on the other side of
the globe 1
To prevent Bubonic Plague wear Metzler’s
“ Protective Anklets,” a certain protective against
the access of vermin and disease germs from the
ground. They are worn by several members of the
medical profession, including doctors of the staff of
the Board of Health, and are worn also by mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Police Force on duty m the
plague-infected quarters of Sydney. Obtainable
from all first-class chemists or from Head Office
of the Proprietary, 14 Castlereagli-street, Sydney.
The Royal Hotel, Queen-street. Melb., of
which the celebrated Mrs. Fraser has become
licensee, was the scene of a revolver accident the
other dav. An ass (and a journalistic ass at that)
during the Mafeking drunk enterod the hotel and
pointed a pistol at the barmaid. Barmaid ducked.
Ass pulled the trigger, and the bullet went
through the panelling. Ass nearly fainted. Had
thought the “gun” was uncharged. A narrow
squeak for a “tragedy,” and not without sugges-
tiveness under present conditions.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Lai go
bottles Is. everywhere.*
It is a nice, gratifying sensation to be
filled with racial pride and glory so long as it
doesn’t happen too often. But you want to be
filled with the cheerful, energising glow of honest
good health, induced by wholesome, scientifically-
cooked food, all the time. Hence the necessity
for every busy citizen and toiler to whom health is
the most profitable and precious investment to
secure a Primus Chief Stove from M Lean Bros,
and Rigg. Costs only Is. to Is. 3d per week for
oil or gas and dispenses a wealth of happiness to
the consumer. Send for catalogue or call and see
the stoves working. M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg,
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne ; George-street, Syd-
ney ; Murray-street, Perth.*
“Gunner” on the Mafeking business
All this vaporing about Mafeking and Baden-Powell
makes me tired. I don’t dispute B.P. s merit; but his
exploit isn’t for a moment to be compared with many
other defences of isolated posts by small scratch-garnsons.
Take the case of the Lucknow Residency in 57. the
garrison consisted only of a few miscellaneous
civil and military, with some detachments of faithful
sepovs, and a little contingent of European invalids. Ihe
besiegers, who were able to approach within a furlong,
under cover of buildings and walled gardens, had plenty
of trained gunners, besides sappers and miners,
who pushed forward the attack underground as well.
The first relieving force under Havelock and Outram,
after fighting its way through the pity of Lucknow, was
shut up with the original garrison m the Residency, and
would have perished therewith if it had not been in turn
relieved by Sir Colin Campbell (with whom was Roberts,
who in “ 41 Years in India,” has described the many days
of tremendous fighting necessary to force a way to the
Residency). It would be interesting, by-the-way, to know
what “ Bobs’ ” really thinks of the Mafeking business and
Baden-Powell’s somewhat patronising comparison between
the march of the relieving force and that of Roberts to
Kandahar.
Mr. ROB€RT BYRNE
HAS AGAIN RESUMED BUSINESS AS
Land and Estate Agent,
AT HIS OLD ADDRESS,
333 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Next to Commercial Bank.
“A TRIP TO THE RACES.”
(Human Races).
“IMPERIAL” Bicycles for 1900 just landed,
fitted with Westwood steel rims and Dunlop tyres.
A [rents wanted where not already represented in
Australasia. Write for catalogue. Buy your bicycle
from the factory at factory prices.
A few Second-hand Machines fitted with new tyres and in
good order, all of well-known makes. A post-card will
bring vou a list. “Duck” brakes and carriers will fit
any bicycle. Oil and Gasoline Engines for launches,
electric lighting, pumping, cordial factories, pnnting and
general power, from lh.p. tosoh.p. • •
J. F. McDermott and Company,
Sole General Agents in Aus. for “ IMPERIAL ” Bicycles.
Central Depot—37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
!i{ jit Hi ji iii if j iii or?
.i in m nnn
;iiiiih jiiin.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is ... .
“Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Proprietor - ■ GEO. W. ELLIS.


LIVER AILMENTS YERSUS KIDNEY DISEASE.
The Most Popular Mistake in the World.
BACKACHE Does Not Mean Kidney Trouble
IT MEANS a SLUGGISH LIVER.
Don’t Blame your Kidneys for your Liver’s Transgressions.
The Case of
>iRS. EMILY GATELY.
( Reported for the “ Advocate.”)
Leaving Rockdale and the ocean front,
And mounting the risinggiound, hack from the
the traveller passes through Rexley, and
ollowing tl)e ridge along the Stoney Creek
load, he comes to open ground of green
;e vet turf ranged with gracious trees. This
ittle beauty spot is well named “Alston
tark, and it was here that our reporter
ound the cottage of Mr. Gately, stone-
mason Mrs Gately was at home, surrounded
, ! * ,el ' * ine family of sturdy children,
Audm answer to enquiry, kindly consented
to relate the details of her time of sull'er-
ng, and tlie manner of her speedy relief and
recovery “,l can assure you 1 was very
nul indued. It was at a time when I had a
peat deal .of extra work to do, and was
nneh worried m many ways ; besides, I had
iad ndlitenga, and never got reall v well of it.
was told that the influenza had left a lun«'
weakness, and by advice I painted the
hollows in my shoulders, where I used to
ndfer extreme pain, with iodine. This
treatment was very painful, and, so far as I
could tell, did me no good at all. And be-
-•nles the chest pains I had other distressing
symptoms that, coining quickly one after the
niude my life unendurable.”
“ V\ id j oil-toll me how you were affected?”
asked the reporter.
“ My kidneys were in a bad state, fori
nd agonising pains across the loins, and
f ere was a dud pain under the shouHcrs.
(!o re Mrs. Gately m Ices the same mistakes
as many other suileiei's from liver 00111-
plaint. The liver has many functions to
pei .o; m, and when uHiicted the kidneys are
disturbed in sympathy. The water becomes
not and discoloured, and every sufferer
jumps to the conclusion he has kiduey
riseuse. Nothin!' of the sort. Kidney
disease has very little means of showing its
presence, and a man may beaftlicted for veara
and never know it. Backache, headache
painsin the arms, chest, loins, back, shoulders’
&c are invariably due to liver complaint, not
kidney disease, lo treat the kidneys is abso-
lutely useless ; curetheliverandthesupposed
kidney symptoms cease.-ED.) It seemed as
though a heavy weight was on my chest
giving me a stilled feeling, and lower down
1 had a pain in the side under the ribs that
prevented me sleeping, or lying down, except
on one side of my bodj'. My sight was a great
trouble to me, for neuralgia pains spread
over my head and forehead and settled at
the back of my eyes. I made sure I was
going blind. I could not endure strong
light it actually pained me, and I fixed up
curtains when I could about the house to
keep ioout. My rest was troubled at night
and hour after hour I l«y in bed unable to
c'oy my eyes. At times my breathing was
anected, and it pained, me to draw a long
bieath. I became that weak and low I
could not put one leg before the other, or
raise my hands above my head My body
vnis in a constant tremble, for X know that
rny nervous system was quite run down,
affecting < ven my mind, so that I was
melancholy and fearful, often for no cause at
all. My appetite became very poor, and
what I did eat did no good ; I seemed to be
losing the taste for food. And there is one
curious thing with me—l could never drink
plain water, it makes me sick, so that in the
hot weather I was always running to the
teapot, making tea six or seven times a day.
And I have thought often enough that
taking so much tea must be bad; the
difficulty is to find another drink that will
take its place. When I got very bad I told
my husband I should have to lie up, I was
so utterly wearied out with pain and weak-
ness. ”
“Well, did you lie up, Mrs. Gately?”
“No i as it happened, about that time
a man came.this way distributing the books
that teil of Clements Tonic and the wonder-
ful cutes it has done. One of my children
picked up one these books and brought it
home, and I was quite surprised when I
came to read the tesi.imonials to find cases
mentioned just like my own. It was as
though I had written them myself, describ-
ing all my paitis and distressing s) mptorns
just as I suffered. That made me think that
Clements Tonic must he the medicine for my
care, and would surely cure mo as it had
others. So I told my husband that when he
c.iwio home from town again he was to
b ing me a bottle.”
• And were your hopes justified 1 ” asked
the report< r.
“Yea; that first bottle did me a. great
deal of good. Clements Tonic will go to
every part and nene of your body, and
repair whatever is wrong. I know this is so,
for it has cured me. I continued with
Clements Tonic, and the result wasjust whatl
had read about as happening in other cases.
All my many troubles yielded ami melted
away before Clements Tonic ; the pains in
my loins, chest, and head, the neuralgia
nains in mv forehead and eyes diminished
till I felt them no more. My appetitt
returned, and I was always anxious for meal
time to ccme round. And it was Clements
Tonic that did all this for me, for I took no
other remedy. It quickly brought me back
my old health and strength, and I was able
to work again.”
“ Have you any ob jection to your experi-
ence being made public ?”
“No,” said Mrs. (lately, '• you are very
welcome to mate it known in any way you
think best; perhaps what I say will guide
others, as what o. hers said guided me and
they may find relief, even win n at the las<
extremity, by taking Clements Tonic.”
STATUTORY DKCUARATION.
I, Kmii.y Gati i.v, of 8.-xl y, near Roekdule
m die.C Iny of New South « a'es, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that. I havo carefully read th
annexed document., consisting of four folios and
consecutively numbered from one to four, and that
it c iiuains and is a line amt faithful account of my
lllm hh mi l eurel.y Olomenis 'l onio, and also contains
my full permission to pul. i.sh the same in any way :
and 1 make this Holenm iltdaia ion vo untnrily, and
without receiving any piymeiii, conscientiou-ly be
lieviiii the same to he true, mid l.v \ iriue of the pro-
visions of an Act made and j a»se ' In the niinti \ eiu
of the rein of her p eseut Majesty, Intituled “An
Aot. for the more effectual .aboiilion of Oaths and
Atlirui dions taken and m.nie In the various Depart-
ments of the <.nvermi|pnt of New south "ales, and
to substitute Decimations in lieu ther ot, and f ir the
supple s. n of voluuuty and extra judicial Oath,
and Affidavits/'
-
C^-
Declared at Hurstville, this 22ml dav of June
one thousand eight hundred and . meu-nhe. lief me.
me. HUGH Pa'Jtat'u J f
1P3F2.0 DTJCE
SELLING
brokers.
Electricity
Body
into Your
You Sleep !
Dr. CLARKSON’S ELECTRIC BELT
WILL fill your nerves with Electricity
every night while you sleep,
and take
Dr. CLARKSON’S
RE-INVI6ORATOR
during the day, and in ten days you will
feel the dawn of new life in every organ
of your body. All the nerves will he
charged with renewed energy, and your
heart will beat stronger with the gladness
of youthful vigor. To men who are
Nervous, failing in Vitality, Sleepless,
Despondent, Losing Memory, Wasting
the Vigor of Manhood, Dyspeptic, Weak
in Stomach and Kidneys; who notice a
general collapse of all Vital parts; to
such men Electricity and the Re-In-
vigorator as I apply, it will bring happi-
ness and health. Its effect on Weak
Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Its touch is Magnetic.
■ tin
■'■■.-■■ ■: , vrwy>
hi
/,_■ .■
: •>%=
K
SK
O
XtO
*
S&i
■".V*
—•
-V-
T-'.V
pll
M 9
IMii
m
mm
'»!'.Vv
{fufilWV*
Wv~
S
T 1 h ILLS the blood with the fire of
1 youth, and gives new vim and
confidence. While it is on the body,
the nerves teem with vitalising warmth,
and "within a few weeks the full vigor
of manhood is restored.
W ELECTRIC
BOPy BELT
has been brought to the highest state
of peilection by twenty years’ study
and experiment. It is unlike any of
the old-style belts, and is warranted to
be stronger than any other body appli-
ance made. It is guaranteed for one
year without any expense for renewals
or repairs.
PRICE : ELECTRIC BELT, 10/-.
Re-in vigorator, 7/6 Bottle; 3 Bottles £1
s* Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
If you are Sick or Weak, try my New Method at once. It will save you years of misery and many Doctor’s bills.
me send you my Pamphlet full of Truth for Men who Want to be Strong.
Call if you Can.
If not, let
Call or
Apply :
hd
CUT
RATE
Gut-Hate Price List Post Free on Application.
Corner ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
low to Prevent the BUBONIC PLAQUE and other Fevers.
fth
ALP ALINE
Vitality Pills
are the niosfc Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency,. Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long' standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
iifeaaßlood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely' free from Mercury'.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALP ALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Wane of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
dse
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
ry
IMPORTANT.
th
ADVK€ FREE.
ser
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for t ouglis, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of neadache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6 J . Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo >derfnl for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for pteventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders -Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms hath in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to tuke. Boxes, Is;
posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunion' l . Bottles, Is;
Alfaline Extornal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affeotions ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Hassmussen’sHead Office 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE: 160 Q,ueen-st (near Creek-st.) # ADELAIDE: 154 Rundle-st.(nr.York H’tel) t PERTH,W. A.: Hay-st. (next Royal Theatre)
MELBOURNE: 150 Bourke-st, (Opp. East. Markets) jf N.Z., WELLINGTON: 91 Lamb ton Quay \|| KALGOORLIE: Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s)
gs
dfg
sd
The self-contained Kitchener lately eulo-
gised the deceased war-correspondent, G. W,
Steevens, in most flattering terms. Probably a
return for the Kitchener laudations in Steevens’
account of the Khartoum campaign—-wherein the
Sirdar is exalted almost to the heavens. Kitchener
won’t eulogise Winston Churchill overmuch should
the latter cut his stick to some celestial kopje.
The great ambition of a certain kind of
(mostly unmarried) woman is to be tied up of
otherwise handled and pawed by a man, and ir
that can’t be arranged the next best thing is to
say she was so handled or pawed or tied up. As
an instance, a Maoriland family came home re-
cently in the early morning to find the girl who
had been left in charge with a handkerchief fas-
tened over her mouth, and herself secured to the
bed-post with her hands behind her. She alleged
that a man had done it, but on cross-examination
she admitted that by vast ingenuity she had con-
trived a way of apparently fastening her own
hands behind her back, and had got up the little
show herself. How long she had been there it was
impossible to say, but as she didn’t know exactly
when the family would return it seems quite pro-
bable that she had been standing wearily on
her two feet for hours, with a gag in her
mouth and her shoulders aching, and her
body moored to a cold bedstead, waiting to be
discovered in that romantic position. Marriage is
a desirable state because it consists in being
owned by a man. And if the romantic maiden
can’t be permanently owned by a man, it is at
least something to go on with if she can so far
attract the attention of one as to lead him to tie
her to a bedstead. It shows that she isn’t utterly
forgotten and overlooked by the other sex. It
suggests that, though he was in too great a hurry
to propose marriage in the usual way, yet he
wanted to know where to find her again when he
came back with more leisure on his hands and
honorable intentions in his eye. It
jealousy ; he fastened her to the bedstead to pre-
vent her going out and showing her charms to
other admirers. Also, it seems to include a grati-
fying sense of proprietorship or wish for proprie-
torship, and a desire to gaze on her face
at his leisure and drink in her loveli-
ness. At all events, whatever fee'ing it
expresses, it does not express indifference. No
man ever broke into a strange house and tied a
piece of brown paper to the bedstead, for the suffi-
cient reason that man is quite indifferent to brown
paper. He might wander past it every day for
years and never once know it was there. And
that is probably the whole reason and explanation
why a healthy young woman goes to great pains
to rope herself to a cold iron bed on a cold night,
and gets cramps and frozen feet waiting to be
found there with her undigested handkerchief in
her mouth.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian eems.*
“G.A.” : A lady neighbor of mine has,
in 3 “ tries,” presented the partner of her sorrows
with seven olive-branches —twins twice and then
triplets. Is this a record ?
fgs
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
dfg
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
BEFBESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
sdf
gs
IMPORTANT A.KT2SroXJ]XrCB]M[E3XrX !
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
dfg
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELIC OUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure a .d wholesome Jelly in a few
miuutes, without strain Jg or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves iu the
following flavours Lemon, Orange. Vanilla.
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors:-GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco. Perth,W.A.46B,King St.,Melbourne


D?MACKENZIE’S
fIRSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society.
S, Harvey, Ltd.,
London, S.E.
m
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees arc swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medic»tadvice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advisefl'to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, I/ljd. per b >x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purcli -rs should
look for the registered trade mark of the Gras pper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
1900. ANNUAL OPERA SEASON. 1900.
The Williamson Opera Company presenting for a limited
number of nights,
XX.IVC.S. Pinafore,
Accorded a Most Hearty Welcome.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PT PRICES—6s., Bs., 25., and Is.
-pH EATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
ASTOUNDING, ASTONISHING ACHIEVEMENTS.
BLAND HOLT'S
Fascinatingly-Vivid Melodrama,
WOMAN AND WINE.
WOMAN AND WINE.
Popular Prices, Bs,, 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Criterion theatre, sydney.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampirr.
TRIUMPH COMPLETE and CONVINCING of
Alfred Pati>pier Corppafyy.
LAST NIGHTS of
New Version of East Lynne.
SATURDAY NIGHT, “BRITON AND BOER,”
and Re-appearance of ALFRED DAM PIER.
Supported by the Full Strength of the Company.
1C K ARDS’ TIVOLI TH EATRE, BYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. SIR. Harrt Rickards
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
A PERFECT FURORE NIGHTLY ACCORDED
DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN.
PAUL MARTINETTI and His Company.
BILLY MoOLAIN and MADAM CORDELIA,
TIIE GREAT RUSSIAN NKWSKY FAMILY.
JAS. BAIN. ARTHUR CRANE. ALMA GRAY.
And all our Great Company.
BIJOU TH EATRE, M ELBOURNE. ~~
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
INSTANTANEOUS and EMPHATIC SUCCESS of the
THE THREE HAYTORS.
Great Ludwig Amann
Mr. TOD CALLAWAY, LITTLE FANNY POWERS,
CHAS. SEEL, Miss MAUD NEEDHAM, DORA
TAYLOR,and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
H EATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
7TH WEEK I
LAST NIGHTS OF
* THE LAPPER OF LIFE *
Or, Gordons to the Front.
In preparation a new nautical sensational drama by
Herbert Leonard,
ON ACTIVE SERVICE.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’ MELBOURNE.
CHARLES ARKTOLD
And His English Comedy Company.
EVERY EVENING
“The Professor’s Love Story,”
by the famous novelist, Mr. J. M. Barrie, as performed at
the Garrick Theatre, London.
Charles Arnold as PROFESSOR GOODWILLIE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
H_ ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
(Late Alexandra).
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
Enthusiastic Reception of the Brilliant Young American
Tragedienne, NANCE O’NEIL, in Suderman’s
Masterpiece,
“ 3VE A & XZ> -A..”
Every Evening at 8.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 6s ; Stalls and Family Circle,
3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees, Messrs. H. G. L. Wyld and C. H. Freedman.
Every Afternoon at 3, and Evening at 8.
vj Two Hours in South Africa with
the Troops, by Biograph. 1%
Direct from the Palace Theatre, London.
SEVEN MILES OF FILMS.
GENUINE WAR PICTURES TAKEN ON THE SPOT.
Afternoon, doors open 2.30, commence at 3.
Evening, doors open at 7.30, commence at 8.
C. H. FREEDMAN, Business Manager.
-jpOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, JUNE 9, at 3 O’Clock,
Orchestra.
(5C Instrumentalists).
Principal Violin Mil. GEORGE WESTON.
CONDUCTOR HERR BENNO SCHEREK.
POPULAR PROGRAMME, POPULAR PRICES:
3s. 2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
-|-OWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, 7th ; SATURDAY, 9th ; and WEDNES-
DAY, 13th JUNE,
Inauguration of the Australasian Tour of
Donald IVTacdonald,
The Australian War Correspondent.
“ The English can Conquer Everything but DEATH."
Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Glen’s.
EDWIN GEACH.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM.
WANTED some LIVE CROCODILES, over
15ft. in length. State Price, delivered alive,
and in g<y~i condition to
J. E. SHERRARD,
Secretary.
EXTRAORDINARY NEWS
You can buy WINTER OVERCOATS FOR ONE
GUINEA at
HORDERN’S ™ PITT STREET,
which will defy any competitor to approach any
way near the value. Sum up the following, and
if it agrees with your ideas of Fashion and Value,
come in and see them, or send us money-value
for it, and we will forward for ONE GUINEA,
NO EXTRA FOR CARRIAGE, to any town in
N.S.W.
CHESTERFIELD CUINEA OVERCOATS,
loose back, made in one piece, xo seams down
back, two long vents or openings at bottom of
back to give freedom to the wearer when walking
or stepping up, fly fronts, stitched-on velvet
collar, showing cloth edge. The coats are also
lined with fine Italian Cloth, sleeves lined with
strong striped silkette, pockets have flaps, out-
side breast-pocket, also inside breast-pocket and
ticket-pocket. Colors : Browns, Navys and
Fawns. These are TAILOR-MADE COATS, and
cut to the very latest style. The above descrip-
tion will give you some idea of the excellence of
OUR GUINEA OVERCOATS. Still, we would
like to show vou them, so kindl v come in and see
them, as NO BETTER VALUE IS POSSIBLE.
If you cannot call in, please write.
Do not forget to mention WHAT SIZE YOU
REQUIRE when ordering.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
Federal
Clothiers,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Milling Maciiinery.
r T'ENDERS are invited up to June 15, 1900, for the pur-
chase of a lot of Mininir Plant and Machinery on
property of “ New South Wales Gold Fields Ltd.,” situ-
ated at Swamp Oak and Niangala, about 40 miles from
Tamworth. Plant consists of two (2) five-head Stamper
Batteries, Winding Engine (double) 10 x 15, also double six-
inch Otis Air Compressor (Ingersoll-Seargcant), Rook Prills,
Octagon Steel, IJ, 1, and i inches, Tangve and Knowles
Sinking Pumps, Cyanide Plant, Saw Mill Plant, Multi-
tubular Boiler, 30 H.P. Loco. Boiler, Vertical Boilers,
Trucks, Rails, Stores, Tools, Buildings, &c.
Inventory and Conditions of Purchase may be seen at
the mine or at the office of
JOHN HOWELL,
Mutual Life of N. York Building,
Martin Place, Sydney.
Jf
CLASSICAL
and School MUSIC.
20,000
WORKS TO SELECT FROM.
. .ALLAN & CO. .
Collins St.
MELBOURNE.
The Australian Music Books.
ONE SHILLING EACH.
Containing Songs, Duets,
Piano Solos, Violin Solos, etc.
ALLAN a CO.
COLLina •!<
V'
m I
m
ALLAN 4. CO.
will send you
MUSIC and PIANO
CATALOGUES
POST FREE I
ALLAN and CO.,
Collins Street, Melbourne,
D.S .MAI R
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2 6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
"DEST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 Geof-ge-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. f3&~ Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684- George Street, Sydney.
6s 6d A Watch & Chain for 6s 6d
sdf
V/\7E sold 4700 in
v ' 1899. To ever}'
purchaser of one of
our 2s 6d “Burmese"
Silver Chains (either
Ladies’ or Gent’s) we
will present, on pay-
ment of 4s extra,
an OPEN-FACE
FULL-DAY KEY-
LESS WATCH which
we guarantee a per-
fect timekeeper.
There are no con-
' ditions or guessing about this watch. We send the watch
and chain registered (any colony) on receipt of postal note
for 6s 6d and 6d for postage. We make this extraordinary
offer merely to circulate our price-list and a. ve tise the
quality of our goods. Watch and chain sent on approval;
if returned within 14 days, money refunded.
H. POTIER & CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney.
“ VYTOL^
.The most marvellous physical regenerator ever
discovered. A broken-down system quickly re-
juvenated. VYTOL is a nerve and blood-builder
and restorative of almost magic power, quick and
permanently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim.
energy, strength and vigor of youth. Price per
packet, posted, 7/6. Obtainable at Rocks, Tomt-
sttt & Co., Druggist, 292 Flinders-st., Melbourne.
At Poverty Point.
“ The Ladder of Life ” introduces three Cockney Hee-
landers at the storming of Dargai Heights. Seemingly
there are cockneys in kilts. A soger from South Africa,
interviewed by a Melb. Argus man last week, said, “ I
ain’t a mister ; I’m a blooming Tommy. Corporal Fuller,
of the 2nd Battalion Gordon Highlanders, -that’s who I
am. After fighting both at Chitral and Dargai, I sailed
from India with the first- battalion of the regiment, and
got up to the front in time for Elands Laagte.” The
braw Fuller incidentally mentioned “ a blessed little
bugler ” who was with the Australians at Enslin. and who
used to sing a certain song, whereupon a bystander
remarked that the blessed bugler must have been his
son. He identified bis offspring by the ditty in question.
“ I dessay,” said Corporal F. “ Well, next time you see
your son tell him to learn a new song. I got sick of
'earing it every night.”
The Dailv Mail report of Melba’s divorce supplies
sundry anecdotes and fictions which speak well for the
business ability of the ex-Melbournienne. She was only
19 when she first sang in public, and at 21 (! 1!) she left
Australia —she says, Her first appearance in grand opera
' happened when she was 23, ye gods ! One day when she
had been practising her part at her hotel in New York
she was approached by a strange lady, who said, “ Ma-
dame, I think you would be touched to hear what my
little boy said just how. He is lying in bed, getting over
an illness, and when you began to sing he lifted his tiny
forefinger and whispered, “ Hist, mummy ! Birdie ! ’’
Melba tells a very truthful-looking yarn of her interview
with the King and Queen of Sweden at the palace in
Stockholm The King had a decoration for her, and
wanted a pin to fasten the ribbon to her dress. Melba
promptly offered a pin, but his Majesty hesitated to take
it lest it might “ mar their friendship.” Then a happy
thought occurred to his royal mind. He took the pin,
saying, “ I will break the evil spell with a kiss, and we
will be friends always.” What chances these kings do
get 1
“M.E.”: Went to “Oliver Twist,” and returned a
sadder man. I want to be made wiser, and therefore I
ask, why, in the name of all that is hideous and beastly,
produce such a horror ? Why pander to the public’s love
of blood—the public, whose blood-lust has of late been so
glutted? How a woman like Nance O'Neil, who aspires
to the classic roles, can appear, and apparently revel in,
such a nightmare passes my understanding. The play is
one blot of blood. We all know what it is to buy a pot of
Aspinall’s enamel—how we simply must enamel every
available subject in the house. Nance O’Neil and co. have
evidently been investing in a ton or so of red paint, and
once they begin they paint the town red. All the people in
“ Oliver ” had a daub of red about them—and as for
Nancy 1 Talk of realism—this was realism with a venge-
ance. And if you have such filthy realism on the stage,
why not be realistic right through ? Bill Sikes blows out
the candle, and kicks Nancy’s face out of all human
resemblance, in the dark. Then why, in the name of
blood, after Nancy has dragged herself round the room in
the half-light, and thoroughly thrilled the horror-loving
public, why should the lights suddenly flare and reveal
the face, one inass of blood, or red paint, the eyes staring,
and that one bloody hand sticking out from the sheet?
Why couldn’t Nancy die decently in the next room ? ’Tie
a pity Nance doesn’t more often wear dark hair. It suits
her, and she was very suggestive of Maud Jeffries. And,
what a shame that that voice of hers should be used for
London-slum vernacular 1
“ Romeo ” Bellew is not aspiring to become a mining
expert. It is said that he is to manage for Musgrove ana
Co., at Melb. Princess.
A barber, in Auckland (M.L.), said to G. P. Oarey,
“ I’m going to see a famous new play, the ‘ Second Mrs.
Langtry.’ ”
“ Skull ” : The night after their arrival in Melb., a few
of the Australians invalided home from S’Africa appeared
at the Bijou, crowded in alongside the orchestra, in full
view of the whole house, and they competed for the
admiration of the audience, even more eagerly than the
people on the stage. The management drew attention to
them, although they had already paraded their sore toes
with immense effect ; the various performers drew
attention to them; after which they drew attention to
themselves, a civilian in their company rising up between
the turns with a speech about “ Heroes from the war,
ladies and gentlemen,” and “ Brave fellows who have bled
for their country,” but the storm of applause cut him off.
It was a very pretty and modest exhibition. The returned-
hero theatre-party is a most tasteful show.
“ Malle ” : Alleged facts lately given of dramatic trial of
Walter Montgomery, on a charge of murdering one W.
Shakespeare, are somewhat warped. The trial was in
Melbourne, not Sydney, and Dailey was Judge, not coun-
sel, and his mimicry of the mannerisms of a prominent
Yic. jurist convulsed the party. When Montgomery was
found guilty, and was asked if he had anything to say why
sentence should not be passed, he replied, “Nothing, ex-
cept that you are a set of hideous wretches.” Then
Dailey assumed great solemnity, and, before passing
sentence, said that no fulsome flattery on the part of the
prisoner should weigh with him.
Beauteous Mrs. Maesmore Morris is playing a lady Jour-
nalist in “ The Man of Forty,” at George Alexander’s
theatre. Her experience in Melbourne ( and Sydney)
must have givpn the much-paragraphed blonde a fair in-
sight into penwoman methods, anyhow. One notice
says : “ Mrs. Maesmore Morris looked smart and self-
reliant as the journalist, and gave her lines with point
and clearness.”
A pleasing incident happened at the opening of the
re-chriStened Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, on Saturday
night, the 19th, the night on which Melbourne went mad
about Mafeking. There was an atmosphere of used
whisky in the house, and the audience was rabid in its
patriotism. It signalised the occasion by singing many
Jingo songs and much National Anthem. When Pro-
vidence was being incited to save the Queen, a gaudy
soldier at the back of the balustrade, seizing his oppor-
tunity, leaned forward, and banged a stranger heavily on
the head. “ Why don’ you shtan’ up when we shing
‘ Gor sha Queen ’?” he demanded. “I am standing, you
idiot 1 ” answered the victim. He was a dwarf, with a
man’s body and infantile legs.
Re Daudet’s “ Sapho,” for producing which, on N.Y.
stage, our bold buxom little friend Olga Nethersole has
got into hot water, the author’s son, Leon Daudet,
quaintly says “Among literary people it is looked upon
as milk and water, the Sandford and Merton of French
novels. There is not a bourgeois in France who would
object to his wife or his son reading it; I don’t say his
daughter.” Milk and water that is confessed unfit for the
daughter of a house must be queer stuff. Leon must
mean rum-and-milk.
The statement that Mrs. Patrick Campbell was married
at the age of 17 reminds one that every fashionable actress
who admits to having been married for some years was a
girl of 17 when she tripped lightly to the altar.
Hermann Vezin, who married the old-time Australian
actress, Mrs. Charles Young, celebrated his stage jubilee
t’other day with a big benefit in London. Vezin at his
prime was a great, but always a cold actor, noted for
incisive elocution and dramatic intelligence rather than
force, and a couple of inches too short for heroic parts.
“ Hermes ” : “ Magda ” may not be a great play, but it
is certainly a remarkable one. And the most remarkable
bits are not the ones which have been most spoken of.
F'rinstance, the much-quoted passage where Nance de-
claims that we must sin to rise superior to our sins is very
vague and general after $ll, but the attention of John
Norton, as public censor of morals, is drawn to that win-
some, definite incitement to impropriety in the passage
where Nance asks her charming and conventional sister
if she never took her lover out into the glorious solitude,
and lay upon h'; breast, and forget everythin?. Now, an
engaged Miss is not supposed to lie upon her fiance’s
chest. She may pillow her golden head upon it, or let
her tears trickle over it, or hide her face in it, or use it
occasionally as a lean-to, but to subside upon it entirely
is taking an undue liberty.
Edna May, the original Belle of Xew York, was, at
latest dates, seeking a divorce from her husband, Frederick
Titus. One witness for petitioner testified that Titus and
the co-respondent (Miss Ward) were wont to hold one
another’s hands “ in a pointed manner,” and to “ sleep
with their heads on each other’s shoulders in the cars.”
Mrs. Bernard Beere was lately married again to a Mr.
Olivier, but the event “ will not interfere with her
acceptance of professional engagements,” she says.
J.S.: Re my former remarks about the dreary length
of present-day dramatic presentations : In Act I. of
“The Tyranny of Tears,” 35 minutes are spent merely
in explaining that Parbury is a scribbler with a female
secretary, and a wife who cries for her own way ; and the
other three acts in proportion. “T. ofT.” would be a
good 25 or 30min. curtain-raiser if a lawn-mower were
run over it, the 15min. waits cut out, and some 2.40-gait
actors engaged under a penalty of £1 per minute over-
time. The play is in itself good enough. So is Walker’s
whisky ; but if you put a bottle of said whisky into a cask
of water you'd have some -trouble in getting mellow on
the mixture. Look on the thing as a story, and take,
say, one of Dorrington’s short yarns and spread it over
four pp. of Bulletin'. Even then it wouldn’t take more
than a couple of hours to read, and wouldn’t cost two or
three shillings either for the perusal.
Argus critique of “ Pirates of Penzance ” Melbourne
revival—“ Mr. Gilbert is a passable-enough librettist.”
Why this jealousy ? Has one of the Argus young men
written an opera?
“ Pirates of Penzance ” humor is little understood now-
adays, seemingly. Men who call themselves intelligent
can see no joke in the idea of a triumphant lawless crew
collapsing suddenly when called upon in the Queen’s
name to lay down their arms. Also, the famous poster-
posturing of the Pirate King is regarded by the average
awful person as being “ absurdly overdone.” Perhaps it
has already lost its original meaning (“ P. of P." is 20 years
old) for the younger playgoers in London, where onetime
every small-boy’s ambition was to apply paint to a picture
—printed, price one penny—of the Pirate King, with one
foot on a barrel and a black flag over one shoulder,
exactly as represented in Gilbert’s opera. Anyway, those
absurd old “ penny plain, twopence colored ’’ prints have
not been seen in Australian shop-windows since Lord-
knows-when.
The Acetylene Miners’ Lamps, introduced by
the Acetylene Gas Co. of Australia, Ltd., have proved a
great success and are now largely used in the mines
throughout the colony. The company has lately been
rushed with orders for lighting up gold-mining dredges
owing to the many advantages offered by the light for
that purpose. It would be well for mine and dredge
owners to ascertain full information as to cost, etc., from
the Head Office of the Company, 30 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
The N.D.L. Atlantic liner Kaiser Wilhelm
der Grosse has topped the world’s marine speed-
record with an average, for 22 runs across the
Atlantic, of a shade under 22 knots (25| miles) per
hour. The fastest run of the 22 was (outwards)
6d. 17h. 27m.; and the biggest day’s run of the 22
trips was 569 miles.
What should be done in the vexed matter
of Sydney tram-fares. Same fare—cash or tickets;
but don’t worry the unhappy conductors to give
change for cash fares. If a man wants change,
make him buy tickets.
A letter received in N.S.W from Bloem-
fontein states that there are nearly 3000 cases of
enteric fever in the town, and that so many are
dying that they have to be buried in trenches,
instead of ordinary graves. The “ penny-plain ”
side of war is as deadly as the “twopenny-
coloured.”
Holman’s latest meeting at Wyalong, at
which the Jingoes prevailed in a way, means little
locally, in that the result was partly brought
about by the most outrageous terrorism, of a kind
that if used at an election would put a man in
gaol—and will; if used. Men may vote publicly
to suit their employers, but the ballot-box is
another thing.
“ PRESIDENT KRUGER PRAYS AND WEEPS.
Vain tears ! for Heaven will not rue
The British-Jewish slaughter,
Since Kruger’s God is Jewish too
And blood is thicker’n water.
To that large class which shaves itself,
and usually does the work badly, the Abbot Razor
is a heaven-sent implement. No Razor ever in-
vented will save some people from cutting them-
selves in 16 places, but a weapon made of the
finest steel, with an edge that is as sharp as any-
thing in this world can be, at least reduces this
danger to a minimum. And the Abbot Razor,
sold by Messrs. Mammatt and Sons of 93 York-
street, Sydney, is the weapon in question.*
N. Z. Loan and M. A. Go. Ltd. report for
week ended June 2nd that the catalogue of marsupial
skins was a record one. The co. topped the market with
42id. for grey kangaroos, 66d. for reds, 33£d. for
wallaroos, and 22d. for extra heavy scrub wallabies.
’Possum skins are not up to standard this winter, but the
co. got there with 12s. 3d. per dozen for greys, and 11s.
3d. for reds. As indicated in last week’s reporl, hides
continue to slump—again from Jd. to id. per lb. London
reports rather large decline, which will probably cause a
further decline here. Some quotations : Q’land factory
hides, heavy 6Jd. to s£d., medium sd. to 6Jd, light sd.
to 5Jd. Choice butcher, heavy 4id. to 4Jd, medium 4Jd.
to 4|d., light 4d. to4£d; sloppy and indifferently cured
Jd. below these values. Tallow still gravitates down-
wards. At last week’s London sale only 10 casks sold out
of 600 offered. Prospects indifferent. Owing to certain
restrictions imposed on Australian produce in some
foreign ports, buyers of horns, bones, &c., are not
enthusiastic. Glue-pieces and sinews; though not much
sought after, have not slid, down —still the tendency is
not upward. Wheat is far from uproarious ; but Friday's
demand for sheepskins was keen. Bright, sound-pelted,
half-growths showed a slight jump, but as a whole
the market was only just firm. Skins: Full-wool
merinos, 7Jd. to 7Jd., and occasionally Bd. ; half-growths
s|d. to 6f. ; shorts and pelts, 4d. to 4|d. ; fine cross-breds,
fnll-wool, 4Jd. to sld. ; coarse cross-breds, 4d. to 4}d.
Heavy, earthy, or otherwise inferior skins, from id. to Jd.
per lb. less.
The disinfecting brigade went fishing lately
in Sydney’s Beautiful Harbor to see if it wanted
cleaning as badly as some other ihe
harvest of the sea was nine pigs, 168 dogs, 27 pups,
98 goats, 87 fowls, 640 rats, one monkey, and 27
pieces of meat, all very extra-dead. And yet,
among all the beautiful poems about the treasures
of the sea, and the sheen of the coral caves, and
the pearls that are down below, there isn t one
single allusion to the drowned goat or the 168
dogs. Poetry is a beautiful but inaccurate su b -
stance cut up into short lengths that try to sound
alike at the far end.
Robson, M.L.A. for Geraldton, W.A.,
being new to Parliamentary life, had the nerve to
tell a big meeting the other day that the greatest
blot on W.A. was its corrupt Govt. Premier
Forrest threatens vengeance, but, so far, Robson
has neither withdrawn nor apologised. Briefly,
Robson drew attention to the presence in the
Assembly of several men, all Forrest supporters,
who had gone through the court and who had no
visible means of support, either before or since.
As for specific charges, Robson avers that he has
a shipload of them, and will fire them into the
Govt, on an early date.


Medical.
ECZEMA OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., the
Prince of Wales’ Botanist.
Cures this terrible itchin.C complaint. Kot a
Grease. Does not Stain the Linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 46; post, 4/10.
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
Chemists, or direct from the
COT.ONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J.E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melbourne
FISHER & CO.’S
FAMOUS
NATARA.
A SPEEDY CURE
j For Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
Bronchitis &c,, &c.
Is. 6(1. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co., Hoffnung
and Co., Eeldheim, Gotthelf and Co., and from
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Washington H.
Soul and Co., Pattinson and Co., and from the
PHARMACY,
337 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
Sent per Post, 6d. extra.
Is. Gd. and 2s. 6d. per Bottle.
ICure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAt PROFESSION.
H.C. R00T, 28, Endslelgh Gdns.,LONDON.
HEALTH AND -STRENGTH
® I may be secured without inconvenience or attention
on the part of the person taking Dr. HOPE’S LIFE
SYRUP (liquid or pill form). Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day to day. Are you a Sufferer from had health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated l
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
The Life Syrup Will Cure You^
Price JO/- and !iOI~ ; Course 40/-
A treatise oh the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis-
orders are cured, and in many cases by diet alone, posted
six stamps. Address : —HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145
Oollins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O, Box 405 Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM ADLT &CO S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Business Announcements.
gsd
fg
fringes,
(Isturat Curly, tram tjb'eadk,
PLAITS and TAILS,
KHn. lone fM. all real hair.
CUTTINOS A COM BLN<M
voiced up, V® P er or
W« are tiuj cheapettio At
trails lor all Hair Work. '
Send Color of Hair. r
W. H. Wgz«ll;
110 WruAau Street.
eoroer ©! Palmer-street,
P SYDNEY.
Cable Train will stop at Door.
sdf
Send «tamp?i for full Price v
tm*L* ttaatieo’gi'V* *Cwjnt«y<*<*l*>
Bubonic Plague
&
REGISTERED.
Can be Prevented
By Using:
ECKERSLEY’S
jl)entholine.
All Chemists.
Large Size 2/6 ; Small 1/-
Wholesale from
Australian
Co.
The Life of the System.
.A NOVELTY IN SAUCE,
(TRADE MARK)
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE
SAUCE
The Basis of which is « MONTSERRAT ” LIME=FRUIT JUICE.
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is found, forms a most convenient basis for Sauce, and we invite
a trial. It has been pronounced by connoisseurs to be the Best Sauce before the Public.
It is also half the price of first-class Sauces.
TOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery, writes so far back as 1617, in a treatise on Scurvy:
11 1 ,jare not write how good a sauce it (Lime-Juice) is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the bhips
waste it in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER SAUCE.
iLGrSJVTS a
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros,, Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.; E. Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE-D. Cohen & Co.
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
gsd
fg
Cures While
You Sleep
Whooping Gough, Asthma, Group, Catarrh, Golds.
is; i 'gsn&ttSSST* 1 '
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.,
Plough Court,
Lombard Street,
London.
■FO
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi tuo Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
iDINNEFORDf
I MAGNESIA,
MAG MUSK
Sold Throughout the Wona.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
SPARKLING
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared with this
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Agents: BLAKcY & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 413 George Street, Sydney.
9
4
lIIIIUM
mi
f 4
ELECTRICITY,
If you are tired o'. STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading 3urgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Doss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
’-they impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortabje, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
atta ehments. .. - 8 8 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
fPhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Priee, 60. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
STUART& GO.
* PROPRIETARY limited.
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op.,Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
J 0
0
Our Suit to order at 42*.
is marvellous value, made
from all-wool Tweeds. Vi-
cunas. or Serges, fast colors
is perfect fitting and beau-
tifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order
from any class of material,
£3 3s. To measure, capital
Trousers, very good pat-
terns, 12*. fitl.
Dress Suits, to mea-ure.
£5. Clerical Suits, to mea-
sure, £l.
Ridng Breeches, 255.
Riding Habit*. 4c.
We supply readv-roade
Jlen’s Capital Tweed Suita
215., 255.
Famous Ballarat Serge
1 ; u its, Indigo dye, 255.
I,one Chesterfield Coats
all colors. 3<)s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers. ss. Ild.
All-wool Blue and Black
Vicuna Coats and Vests,
19s fid.
Tweed Overcoats. 21s.
Waterproof Coats, full
capes. Ins. 9d. Undressed
White Shirts, linen fronts
and cuffs. 2s. fid., 3s. fid.
fis.fid.. ss. fid.
Honvy Warm Travelling
Rugs Ills fid.. Ills. 9d.
All-wool Crimean Shirts,
ss. fid., 7«. fid. Travelling
Trunks, Bags In great
variety. Soft Alpine Hats,
4s. fid., all colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. 6d.
Caps, la.
Merino Undershirts or
Cants Is. 9d.
Neckties, Til shapes and colors. Is. White shirt, to measure.
Gents’ Splendid Balmoral Boots, Gs. 9d..
We Uko to write lettors. so don t be afraid to a k for any
Information. Our hook. •• The Philosophy of Dress, and
Battorns of all kinds and self-measuremont forma posted free
Write for them.
LADIES !
—Naturally Curly Fritures, 4s 6d
to 30a each. English llairTails, from f>« fld to i'3 3a eaoh.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything: you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Loungre Hairdressing: Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales . . ,
Harbors’ Supply Ifouse
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
Publications.
SKIN DISEASES
. . AND . .
Their Treatment.
ACNE, ECZEMA, PSORIASIS, &c.,
By Dr. ALFRED NEALE (M.D., M.8.C.M., Ed.),
Late Physician to Manchester Skin Hospital.
*EY : TURNER and HENDERSON, l’os'
SYDNEY
Post 1/1.
Books. Books. Books.
"POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £6 for £1 6s. The
-t Tinmo Phvsician. £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for 42 IBs. Webster’s Largo Dictionary, 1898 edition,
43 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
p W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh streec, Sidney.
SEND FOK A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
it
I Ij. XL. XT s X XX A. X E D
TTTITH numerous anatomical
*' colored I'latcs and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the Brand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
AiiUress, PltlVAiE, Box 462, Q.1'.0., SYDNEY.
a
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
sdf
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET °BOOKs!
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers’ Encyclopaedia w ll supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. Toucan, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time y u
meet until you two are one. Valuable chanters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, ami many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
lettersand FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bitsin prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps. 2d. extra),
will bring yon the book by mail, post free, ami iiicMentnlly
happiness with one you love. Anolo-Ambkiosn ITibi.ishino
to.. Commercial Chambers, Sydney. N.S.W. Mention this
paper when writing
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been awarded 100 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases- especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester.


Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Coughs!
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearnp.—Dear Sir, —I air writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with Cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.” —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
* HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very had coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, anil re-
commend it to anyone requiring a inedicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to inv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ YourS gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.'*
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
"Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night's rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much cased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain’and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“ Yours very truly,
“M.' MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HEE DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“As for myself; thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
hail an attack of Bronchitis in November, but llearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk feeling quite strong.
“ I musta.sk you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-'
nigiit at a time always, and after that for months 1 was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her'cough was so bad she
never had a night's rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday 1
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
herto try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not.
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but. I am happy to sa.v that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.’’
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from whioh I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every oilier treatment had failed. Fol' a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to lied
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and 1 steadily improved as I continued the treatment,’
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. ,T. Anderson, of Oak Park, Chnrleville,
Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to.try Henrne's
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 16 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
gsdf
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARVE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
4 DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic
a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
Minerva Tonic
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
Minerva Tonic
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
Minerva Tonic
is also approved by che British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
Minerva Tonic
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
||re you Too Stout?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealled) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALINC REMEDY CO., 34
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
near SYDNEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
.
MAKERS OF
“S. Co of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW AREA”
..BRAND OP..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
r chasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVEE L IAD and COPPEHORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all int imation regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia Ltd niPTn -w a m „
* ■’ ix.o. vv. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.’’
London Medical Record.
Food r*
Infants
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious/^ 1
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
the aged.


«w
ns
FOR
!usness
Cure a Case of 17 Years Standing.
Dvsnensia is a bad enough complaint to suffer from, but when the patient suffers from nervous debility it makes the complaint still worse.
The disorders known as nervous dyspepsia. Professional men, students and other brain workers get this complaint most frequently. Dyspepsia
In manv'cases is toth blood and nervous derangements. In other words, the blood of the dyspeptic being impure and the nervous
msufficient a complicated form of the disease exists. Mr. George Selly, of Ann-street, Kookwood was a sufferer from nervous dyspepsia
for 17 years and Bile Beans effected a thorough cure. He says: “I am 43 years old, and have been a sufferer from nervous debility and nidiges
t?on for l 7 vears Many were £doctorslConsulted, and many were the bottles of medicine I took but without avail The sick headaches I
suffered from the fulness after eating, and the pains in the back and side were almost unbearable. I often felt drowsy and ray sleep was broken
and mv spirit’s were depressed After ordinary exercise I would get tired and occasionally I had pains in the loins. At times I had a pressure or
sharp pain in the top of the head, and all this misery was accompanied with bilious attacks. I was induced to try Bile Beans, which effected a
thorough curs- lam pleased to recommend them to my friends in Rookwood, where I have lived for 20 jears.
BILE BEANS and What They Are For.
Bilp Beans for Biliousness are one of the safest and surest purgative medicines on the market. They are unlike most laxative remedies
because thev act directly on the bile ducts, causing the liver to secrete and cast increased quantities of this fluid into the bowels, thus flushing the
because they f "L . wnll id a drain Defective bile secretion causes various ailments, such as Headache, Biliousness, Costiveness, I lies,
same out as a Stream of water Indigestion Dizziness, Buzzing in the Head, Fulness after Eating, &c., &c. A Bile Bean taken now and
after ellecte. Price. Is. ljd. per large Bor. Bile
service in Nervous Disorder., Loss-of Appetite, Debihtc, Shortness of Breath, Blotches on the Skin, Insomnia, and
TroublS Sleep. They act quickly in restoring females to health, and for a general apanent and tonic remedy they are almost unequalled.
Women and Marriage.
HINTS FOR CHOOSING A WIFE.
It is not always the prettiest women that
are the most popular with the sterner sex.
You will often find that one of the plainest
girls, if she be good-natured, light-hearted,
and witty, will be most sought after by tha
men. When it comes to marriage, a careful
man takes pains that the woman of his
choice is healthy and robust; he considers
it a duty he owes to himself and posterity,
that his companion in life should be as
nearly perfect, from a physical standpoint,
as possible. Many a man’s life has been
ruined by marriage with a frail and delicate
woman. It is these sort of matches that
find marriage a failure. Not that the
woman is so much to blame, as in many
cases she does not know of a remedy for her
ills. A woman who is run-down, nervous or
irritable, is not a helpmeet to a man in any
way. If she suffers in this way, sooner or
later she will be taken with fainting-spells,
dizziness, and backaches, aebompanied by a
heavy, crowded feeling in the abdomen.
There is no need to suffer with any of these
ailments when Bile Beans are close at hand.
They act gently (as all medicine for women
should), and are, therefore, to be recom-
mended. Bile Beans put the liver in a per-
fect condition and prevent the ducts con-
necting the various digestive organs from
becoming stopped up. In this way they
prevent biliousness. When a cure, however,
is required, they cause the liver to secrete
increased quantities of this fluid, and thus
flush the whole digestive system and carry
off all waste matter from the system, clear-
ing off at the same time all surplus bile.
Once tried (they are only per large
box), they will be found beneficial, and their
use continued the system will be toned
up, the appetite return, the circulation
improve, and general health restored. A
healthy woman is always interesting; she
is happy, and her spirits are contagious.
Good health and good nature are insepar-
able ; secure the first by using Bile Beans
for Biliousness and the latter will take care
of itself.
The Shepherd.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Adam Muir was an unfortunate. Life had mis-
used him—after he had misused life ; but he did
not dwell on that point whereas he never ceased
to blaspheme Life for the ironical manner in which
she had returned evil for evil. Poverty, hard-
living, and coarse food were bad enough, but tie
was inured to these, and yet he smouldered with a
sullen hate against the vast fates that had played
such scurvy tricks with Adam Muir, Gentleman.
Muir was born to riches and reared in luxury.
He could never get away from the conviction that
wealth and pleasure were his natural rights, as
toil, and hunger, and suffering were the ordained
inheritance and belongings of the children of the
poor. He had the contempt of a rich man s son
for arithmetic, and never counted the cost. Adam
awoke one morning to find himself a bankrupt; it
was curieus, but not very disturbing—he was a
gentleman, lie had always been rich, money came
to him by some natural process well understood by
the good God. There was a temporary stoppage
or a trifling miscarriage. All would come right.
Presently Adam Muir was friendless, homeless,
and hungry ,; then he bestirred himself, and ad-
dressed Providence somewhat after this fashion :
“ Come, I say, this is carrying the thing too
far, don’t you know ! ”
Expostulations were useless, and here we have
Adam Muir, at 45, a “hatter” in a bark-hut in
desolate Australia. Many of his boon companions
had gone to the dogs meanwhile Adam went to
the sneep. A shepherd’s calling is a most suitable
one for a man with a grievance; it affords such
spacious opportunities of revolving the situation.
A shepherd can be on his back by the hour, with
all his choice sorrows gathered about him, revelling
luxuriously in his distresses. The sheep, too, is a
very fit companion for such a man ; it is a fatuous
brute with a morbid outlook, and jet with a cer-
tain power of impressing its individuality on its
keeper. The old shepherd is always something of
a sheep. Lambs have a healthier influence, but
there came a time when Adam Muir positively re-
fused to have anything to do with lambs. They
disturbed his ideas with their imbecile frisking
and false, frivolous views of life.
“Lambs are so damn unsympathetic,” said
Adam. He would rather go hungry than shep-
herd them.
The few people with whom he came in contact
at Waddy had always considered the shepherd a
bit queer; his antipathy to lambs was gratefully
accepted as another development of an amusing
eccentricity. Muir shepherded flocks on the
great sweep of common land to the north and
west of the township, sometimes tending the
sheep from one sale-day to another only—some-
times keeping a mob on the grass for several
weeks. His hut was just within the bush-line,
and his nearest neighbor was German Jim, a
veteran fossickor living a quarter of a mile deeper
in the bush and near the creek, where he was
always busy over his “tom” and cradle. But
Adam made no friends ; he maintained an aris-
tocratic reserve, arguing that it would not be well
to be mixed up with the tag-rag and bob-tail when
Fate wearied of the sport and restored him to the
privileges that were his by some process of Divine
right.
After 17 years of poverty the shepherd clung to
the belief that his present condition in a manner
represented a reversal of a natural law. He felt
like a man barred from his lawful heritage by
fraud, and schemed, and planned, and plotted to
get back to halls of light and luxurious living.
His plots were all pantomimes, gorgeous hut
impossible.
It was German Jim who suggested murder as
an easy accessible means to the end.
The fossicker had a great reputation as a miser
in Waddy. It is hard to escape such a reputation
in a bush township if you are poor enough and
industrious enough. One day Adam came
suddenly and unexpectedly on the German as the
latter was panning off the sand from his slides in
the “tom,” which was full of water. The fossicker
swore a guttural oath or two, and threw a shovel-
ful of tailings into the dish. The action was
secret, suspicious—it hinted that he was working
rich dirt and dreaded discovery. Adam’s
imagination took fire at once. He was quite
ignorant of mining, and preposterous visions of
hoarded gold flashed upon him ; but he was cun-
ning, and pretended to have noticed nothing.
“ Doing pretty well, Jimmy ? ” he asked.
“ Go to der teffel ? ” answered Jimmy sullenly.
For a week Adam Muir lay on his back, dream-
ing dreams, and arranging the details of a capital
crime, and every hour the golden store of the
miserable old man in the creek grew and spread
till it rivalled the mines of Solomon in its glory.
He prowled about the German’s hut after dark, and
one night, peering through a crack in the wall,
saw Jimmy hurriedly and anxiously burying some-
thing in a hole at the foot of his bunk. Adam
stole away and next day, in his dreams, he spent
the fossicker’s savings in Sybaritish living.
At noon, impelled by curiosity, he stole to
German Jim’s cradle whilst Jim was at crib, and
was pawing about in the ripples when the fossicker
descended upon him in a fury, and almost beat the
life out of him with a pick-handle. Muir went
back to his flock, and comforted himself with
reverie. He did not complain of his bruises ; the
pain he endured did not even make him angry ; it
gave a new zest to tfib devilishly clever murder he
was perfecting. That was all. The thought of
killing old Jimmy had never given him any com-
punction whatever: he relished it now. What
other object could there be in showering riches on
a man like German Jim? Why else should he
have gathered and hoarded them? Why else
should he have been created at all ?
The shepherd feared nothing, ho thought of the
law as something hazy and a-far off, but his mur-
der was to be a masterpiece of crime. He dwelt
lovingly on the details of it, and, looking up,
found the large, incurious eyes of an old ewe fixed
upon him. A revulsion of feeling swept over him,
he trembled and stared into its dull eyes; then
sprang to his feet, and chased her away with stone
and blasphemy. . . .
“The cursed, prying, peering, inquisitive
sheep ! ” he said
After that he was careful not to excite the sus-
picion of the brutes.
One pleasant moonlight night, German Joe,
answering an imperious knock at his door, found
Adam Muir standing there with his old single-
barrelled gun under his arm.
“I’ve called to see if you’ll oome rabbitting
with me, Jim,” said Adam.
There was no light in the hut saving that thrown
by a handful of fire in the big chimney, but it was
strong enough to show Muir that the fossicker’s
face was drawn and grey, and his eyes distended
with' a horrible fear.
“ What! ”he said, surprisedly—“ you expected
it ? ”
He raised the gun instantly,and fired. Jim
remained for a moment erect in the attitude of a
man thinking, then fell suddenly, heavily, upon
his face.
Muir closed the door, placed his gun in a comer,
and went carefully to work to unearth the trea-
sure. He searched assiduously for two hours;
dug up the floor, burrowed everywhere in the
walls, the roof, the chimney, the bunk, and the
pillows. Not an inch of space was left unsearched,
and at the end of the two hours he had gained
German Jim’s treasure for his pains—a chamois
leather bag containing a pinch of very fine gold,
less than an ounce, also a greasy pound note, a
half-crown, and seven coppers—found in the hay
mattress.
The shepherd returned to his own hut, quite
cool, and with a clear mind. Evidently the fos-
sicker had hidden his wealth somewhere outside ;
he would wait till the body was removed and
curiosity was abated, and then he would search
again, and would find the treasure as a matter of
course. *
He went out with his sheep in the morning as
usual, but when he returned to his hut at twelve
to boil his billy he was followed by a policeman
and two miners from Waddy. The policeman
snipped handcuffs upon his wrists, and said :
“ I arrest you for the murder of Herman Seigel,
alias German Jim.”
Adam Muir was amazed. “It must be the
sheep,” he murmured. He was thinking of the
old ewe that spied upon him.
The policeman took a small piece of paper from
his pocket, and smoothed it out carefully on the
table. Then he seized Adam’s hat, turned down
the leather lining, and pulled out the long strip
of folded paper Muir had inserted to make the
hat fit. The policeman straightened this beside
the other, and the prisoner recognised the small
greasy piece burnt about the edges as the scrap
e used to wad his gun. There was no other
paper handy at the time, and he tore this from
the padding in his hat.
The officer compared the two. “It fits, you
see,” he said.
EDWARD DYSON
An Australian Woman Journalist in
America.
Dear Bulletin. —Miss Darchy, from the staff of Sydney
Daily Telegraph, has been lecturing in San Francisco on
matters pertaining to Australia and the Australians.
Unfortunately California is too absolutely self-centred to
take a marked interest in anything that does not redound
to its own glory. Especially are affairs pertaining to
Britain and its colonies at a discount just now, conse-
quently Miss Darchy’s excellent lectures, illustrated by
admirable views, only attracted those who had a personal
interest in Australia. But, on the other hand, the lec-
turess has been extensively and flatteringly interviewed
in the leading papers. The press of S.F. is always on the
look-out for novelties, more especially novelties of the
feminine gender ; and the opportunity of inspecting a
lady journalist fresh from another continent, and of
gathering her impressions of female journalism as under-
stood in America, was not to bo lost.
Poor Miss Darchy’s first impressions were unenviable.
She caine from a land where the female journalist is ex-
pected to be a lady, or, at any rate, to “ behave as sich.”
She arrived in a land where the female journalist is not
expected to be a woman ; where she is supposed to throw
aside refinement and delicacy ; to subordinate truth to
fakeism ; to tear aside the veil which shrouds privacy ; to
probe hearts, analyse motives, undermine reputations,
wring confessions from criminals, flirt with murderers,
and generally comport herself like a wolf in sheep’s cloth-
ing for the benefit of a morbid public. That she does not
invariably do these things is greatly to her credit and dis-
advantage, the successful journalist being she who casts
aside conscience. Small wonder if Miss Susie Darchy
gave a little shiver of dismay when the status of her pro-
fession in America first dawned upon her. And the shiver
was noted and commented on. But the lady is wise in
her generation ; she contented herself with pronouncing
her American sister “ wonderful,” which is an agreeable
adjective to be variously interpreted. So the American
sister accepted her graciously, patted her on the back,
and expressed a patronising surprise at the narrow groove
in which Australia’s women run. But she was kindly en-
couraging, and Miss Darchy and her views are now tour-
ing the State, aided by divers complimentary press-
notices.
To what lengths female journalism will go in this land
has just been exemplified in a manner which will set
scandal-mongers’ tongues wagging for many a month to
come. One of the fraternity has distinguished herself by
a malicious piece of literature of which even “Ouida”
and “Marie Corelli” might be proud, and which no man
would have dared to pen. The sketch appears in the
Smart Set, a N.Y. publication which aims at showing-up
social foibles ; the writer, who disdains nom de guerre, is
Miriam Michelson, a notable San Francisco presswoman ;
the subject, Alice Rix, formerly the clever, flashy “ star ”
writer on the Examiner, but now posing sedately in re-
putable Philadelphia. Now Alice Rix’s Californian
career held divers matrimonial incidents which do not
count for much in this state of multiform marriage, but
which certainly w'ould not contribute to her social success
in proper Philadelphia. To be sure, Miss Michelson does
not say she is writing down the Rix ; certainly not ; she
calls this “ new woman ” and her son, Malda and Percy,
with varying surnames ; but here her little fiction ends.
Every objectionable incident in the unfortunate victim’s
career is carefully annotated with suitable comments ;
every foible, every flaw, every evil motive is held up to
contempt; all the steps in her matrimonial path indi-
cated with unblushing veracity, every insult that an un-
bridled woman’s pen can command is heaped upon
mother and son. The portrait is a pitiless photograph,
carefully touched up so as to show all the wrinkles and
cosmetics ; the likeness is so brutally true that none can
mistake it; yet with fiendish ingenuity the painter has
omitted to give the lights and shades, the subtleties of
emotion, which would have lent it a saving grace. It is
at once the cruelest and the most disgraceful “ human
document” ever traced by a female pen, yet it is but the
logical outcome of the training which America gives its
women journalists.
If privacy is to be ignored, if the microscope and the
scalpel are to come into play, if it be a woman’s business
to discover other people’s business and display it to a
curious world, there is evidently no reason why she
should not vivisect and analyse such of her friends and
acquaintance as come under her ban. Only, the results
may be a little too far-reaching to be pleasant. S.F. is a
city of glass-houses where stone-throwing is a dangerous
occupation. Alice Rix is not the only female journalist
who has been down (picer-street; and if the public is to
be flooded by reminiscences from kindly friends under
guise of fiction we shall see the old S.F. days of the duel,
and the shooting that is no duel, revived. Only this time
the antagonists will all wear petticoats.
However, California’s women are not all soiling their
neighbors’ reputation. Some of them arc busy over good
works, for which future generations may arise to call them
blessed. The American woman does not limit her ener-
gies to philanthropy and charitable chatter; she keeps
er eye on the beauties of the land which has reared her,
and preserves them from the utilitarian touch of man.
The big Sequoia trees, the redwoods which are the pride
of California and the admiration of the tourist, had been
felled by the commercial axe save for the exertions of the
women of the California Club, who moved heaven and
earth, and Washington into the bargain, to preserve the
pride of the forest. One youthful member of the club
was peculiarly clear and succinct when appealing for her
verdant proteges. “Itis a great deal worse than killing
a man,” quoth she ; “ to fell one of those trees would be
worse than killing many men. For one of them takes
centuries to grow, and in that time one gets, oh, dear 1
so many men." (N.B. —The lady is not married.) That
same man-despising club is now turning its attention to
Telegraph Hill, the most characteristic and picturesque
site in the city, on which the contractor has his levelling
eye and hand. But the contractor will not win his way,
for the California clubbists have marked him and doomed
him, and in this land the women “ have it.”
San Francisco.
A. R. RONE-SOLER.


Five Reasons for Using
ANGIER’S
Petroleum Emulsion
Instead of Cod - Liver Oil.
FIRST
- - -
Agreeable to Palate aijd Storpacb-
Tew can take Cod-Liver Oil for any length of time without disturbing the
digestive functions. ANGIER’S PETROLEUM EMULSION, on the
other hand, is pleasant to take, does not repeat or cause nausea, and agrees
with the most delicate stomach, aiding digestion instead of disturbing it.
Bland, soothing, creamy, it can be taken plain or in water, milk, wine,
.chocolate, or in almost any pleasant liquid.
SECOND
Promotes Appetite, Aids PigeStioQ.
/'ATvGIER’S PETROLEUM EMULSION soothes and disinfects the
I alimentary tract and keeps the digestive organs in a healthy condition to
f perforin their functions naturally. Appetite is healthfully stimulated, and
“< the whole process of digestion, assimilation, and nutrition is greatly
I improved, ft is this property of the Emulsion in aiding digestion and
promoting healthy assimilation of ordinary every-day food that makes it
V.SO superior to Cod-Liver Oil in cases whore the digestive organs are weak.
THIRD
. . .
Sootbcs Tbroat & LGi)gS, Cares CoGgbS.
'Besides in promoting nutrition, ANGIER’S PETROLEUM
JIiMULBION has a marked soothing and healing effect upon the mucous
mombrano of the lungs and air passages. It relieves the most obstinate
cough, and heals any inflamed or catarrhal condition of the throat and
lungs. We have had hundreds of reports from all parts of the kingdom
its remarkable power to relieve and cure troublesome ooughs.
FOURTH - -
Especially Good for Delicate Children
PE I ROLEUM EMULSION looks and tastes like cream.
Children like it, and take it readily when they cannot be induced to take
Cod-Liver Oil. For those who suffer from lack of nutrition, who are
pinched in appearanoe and puny in development, it is iust what is needed.
Their food agrees with them better, and is perfectly digested. They eat
better, digest better, sleep better, and gain in weight, color, and general
health. Medical men report particularly good results from its use in
scrofula, swollen glands, rickets, marasmus, and all wasting and bowel
FIFTH
Corrects Stonjacb aijd Bowel Disorders.
r ANGIER’y PETROLEUM EMULSION is antiseptio, soothing, and
healing, and is, therefore, especially adapted to the treatment of stomach
and bowel disorders of a catarrhal, fermentative, ulcerative, and tuber-
cular nature. It soothes and disinfects the entire alimentary tract, check-
J fermentation, cleansing away foul mucous, and neutralising the effects
of poisonous products in the bowels. The medical profession prescribe
Angler’s Petroleum Emulsion for Chronic Dyspepsia, Chronic Diarrhoea
and Dysentery, Gastric and Intestinal Catarrh and Ulcers, Tabes
Mesenterica, &c. It has cured many long-standing cases of Chronio
after other remedies had failed.
Prescribed by the Medical Profession
In United States since 1881
In Great 1892
In Australasia since-1898
ENGLISH TESTIMONIALS.
Stomach Ulcer. I Instead of Cod-Liver Oil.
43 Bute-street, Liverpool.
Gentlemen, —I was taken ill in November, 1896,
with an ulcerated stomach, and Was under four
eminent doctors up to May, 1897* During March
and April I had four relapses, and was given up,
and told that I could not live more than six
weeks. I had always fancied your Emulsion
would do me good, and when the doctors could do
no more for me I got a bottle, and felt the benefit
of it the first few days, and all food I was taking
agreed with me. I continued to take it up to
September, 1897, and have not felt any pain since
or been troubled with my stomach in any way.
My case is very well known all about here, and
the vicar and curate from our church say if ever a
man was brought from death’s door I was.
(Signed) JAMES BAMBER.
Influenza—Bronchitis-
-71 Elliot-street, Anderston, Glasgow.
Dear Sirs, —About two years ago I had a severe
attack of influenza, which developed into inflam-
matory bronchitis, and confined me to my bed for
eight weeks. The doctor attended me every day,
but his medicine did me no good until he put me
on your Petroleum Emulsion, when I began to
improve at once. Besides my chest trouble, I had
gastric catarrh, with which I have <been troubled
for years, and your Emulsion did me a lot of good
in this respect. It has a soothing effect in the
stomach and bowels, and I felt very much better
after taking it. My appetite was better, and my
food digested better. I take your Emulsion now
whenever my stomach troubles me, and it soon
puts me right again.
(Signed) Mrs. MARY HALL.
Franche-road, Glenfield-road, Leicester.
Dear Sirs, —I am writing to thank you for the
sample bottle of your Emulsion. My doctor
vvished me to take it for a time instead of cod-
liver oil, and I cannot help writing to tell you how
much better I feel in every way. I am now on
the second bottle, and am gradually gaining
weight. My appetite is much better, and I have
no indigestion pains and no pains between the
shoulders. It has also done my rheumatism good.
I have recommended it to many others, and they
also say how much better they are feeling since
taking it.
(Signed) C. GODDARD.
Chronic Diarrhoea.
23, Thornhill-terrace, Thornbury, Bradford.
Dear Sir,—l wish to state that I have been suf-
fering from Chronic Diarrhoea for the last 10
years or more, and have been under three doctors
and once in the hospital, but got no relief until
taking your Petroleum Emulsion. When com-
mencing to take the above, I was completely
broken-down both in health and strength. I have
now had seven bottles of the Emulsion, and I am
glad to say that it has completely cured me of my
diarrhoea.
(Signed) A.. E. GODFREY.
Bronchitis.
High Court-lane, Leeds.
Gentlemen, —I have been taking your Emulsion
for some time, and have derived much benefit
from its use. lam subject to Bronchial Attacks
on getting the least cold, and the Emulsion has
certainly done me much good in that respect, and
has also strengthened my system. From the first
dose I felt benefit, for my appetite was improved,
my food digested better, and I slept better.
(Signed) J. R. THOMPSON.
A FREE SAMPLE BOTTLE
On receipt of 4d. for postage. Mention The Bulletin.
CA TJTION
Ours is the Original Petroleum Emulsion. It is made with a special oil
obtained from particular wells, and carefully purified by our own process.
Imitations made with ordinary petroleum do not have the same effect. Simply asking for Petroleum
Emulsion will not do. You should ask for
ANGIER’S PETROLEUM EMULSION.
AND BE SURE THAT YOU GET IT.
Of all Chemists and Drug Stores - - 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
The Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
Head Office: 32 Snow Hill, London, England.
If the Bushiand be thy Mother!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If the Bushland be thy mother, brother mine,
She will often cast a shadow on thy shine;
She will salt thy blood with bitterness to please a
wanton whim,
She will dash thy cup of gladness when it bubbles
at the brim.
If the Bushland be thy mother, brother mine,
There shall lurk a laughing devil in thy wine ;
He shall stir the soul within thee when the West
is waxing dim,
He shall mock the world around thee with a cynic
humor grim.
If the Bushland be thy mother, brother mine,
She will bronze thee, chin to forehead, for a sign ;
She will tie thy tongue, my brother, so thy speech
be rendered slow,
And the words of love shall fail thee though thy
bosom be aglow.
If the Bushland be thy mother, brother mine,
1 hou wilt find, beneath her merriment malign,
How her heart is full of tenderness for children
that she bore ;
Thou wilt find beneath her railing she is sweetness
at the core.
If the Bushland be thy mother, brother mine,
She will lap thee in her solitude divine ;
She will call her wanderer homeward when the
ways are wild and bare,
She will hush thee in her bosom till thou find a
solace there !
Q.
P. LUFTIG
Her Boy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She had married her husband from pity, and
thereafter continued to pay a good round price for
indulging this expensive sentiment. Fortune does
not always favour the brave. In this oase, she
seemed to think that an unwarrantable liberty
had been taken, and accordingly showed no
quarter. The woman paid.
The man had a University degree which ill-
health rendered useless to him, but he was able to
soliloquize over his misfortunes in three languages
while his wife earned the bread by mere muscle.
People said it was a dreadful shame to see him
marry so much beneath him. She was young and
strong when she grafted this parasitic life on her
own, and hope came easy. It was not easy after-
wards. She had only her muscles, and muscles
count for so little. She washed, ironed, and
scrubbed from dawn till dark at 4/- a day for six
days in the week. On Sunday she turned out her
own house, and attended to the arrears of washing,
cooking, and mending that had accumulated in her
absence. «
Still she never lost heart. As for her husband,
the worst that could be said about him was that
he accepted his position with equanimity. In her
early anti-nuptial days she had dreamed of a
holiday—just one day away from tubs and blue,
box-irons and starch, but this vague and delightful
vision faded into obscurity after the birth of her
boy. Practical people would, of course, regard this
as her second great mistake, but her hardest day
would never wrest such an acknowledgment from
her.
It seemed that now she began to live indeed.
Her husband was still the tender care of her life
but her boy was life itself. When she recovered
her strength, she found that Life spared her none
of the penalty. She had worked well before. She
worked almost superhumanly now. Her clients
showed their appreciation of her by recommending
her to others—never by paying her better. Her
reward for working well was working more.
Sometimes dawn found her standing amidst a
ghostly array of shirts hung by their sleeves over
a clothes-horse. But this was poor policy, as it
frequently entailed a day in bed with neuralgia.
Presently Nature showed her sense of injury by
bringing along the neuralgia without this excuse,
and constantly recurring physical pain ranged
itself among the facts of life. But she always had
her boy. Even when his natural childish screams
of healthy rage tried her overtaxed nerves to the
last point of endurance, she never lost her sense of
pride and joy in him.
She called him Arnold Eugene. Sometimes in his
play he overturned a shirt or two on the floor that
had such a slender chance of being swept. She
then pretended to smack him, but covered him
with kisses instead, and did the shirts over again.
From these demonstrations Arnold Eugene
gathered that tipping shirts over was a game that
was as suitable for his mother as himself.
As he grew older his requirements became more
extensive. Unfortunately the household purse
was not proportionately elastic. At length she
was obliged to admit that her earnings were
sufficient only for rent and food. The clothes for
the household were supplied from the cast-off
garments of her more charitable employers, and
re-adjusted to the family requirements when
husband and son slept. Through all this she
hugged the consolation of how it would end
some day, some golden day when her boy would
b 3 a man , a real man with arms that could work
for her. Through the steam of the wash-tub she
conjured up visions of his pouring his earnings
into her lap, and kissing her poor toil-worn hands
i ito rest. Rest! What a rest she would have
then ! She smiled luxuriously at the thought, as
she rubbed away.
But Arnold seemed to have inherited ill-luck.
He left school at 14, and drifted in and out of
various meagre situations. At 18 he was earning
15/- a week in a boot shop, and was to his mother’s
eyes the ideal of manly beauty. As a matter of
fact he was sft. 7i,n. and weedy, with elaborately-
curled black fringe and a smear of incipient
moustache. On Sunday he wore a hat with a gay
cord and tassel, and high-heeled boots. His
fascinations filled his mother with as fearful a joy
as though he had been a daughter. He did not
place her in any easy chair and pour silver into
her lap, but in what time he could spare from his
fringe and evening “ stroles ” (as he spelt it in his
notes), he was tolerably kind to her. so she was
still proud and happy, till she found one of the
a fore-mentioned notes in the pocket of a waistcoat
she was washing.
Dear flow, come for astrole this evening.—Yours truely,
. mold.
S he was anxious, but comforted herself with the
thought that there could be nothing in it. He
was so young. It transpired, however, that there
was a good deal m it.
The fatal attractions of Arnold Eugene had been
his undoing. \\ hen he mumbled his confession to
Ins mother—she had heard it first from the neigh-
bours—with sullen averted face, she sat mute as a
stone, ihe silence was intolerable to the young
man. He lifted his head defiantly. Then she
broke out: Arnold—my Arnold! ” and burst into a
passion of weeping. The commonness of it, after
these years of waiting !
j W made an impatient movement, and she
dried her eyes.
_ , Omy boy ! ” she said “it is not all your fault,
its because you’re so ’andsome, and things is
made easy for you. We’ll make it all right yet.”
then she proceeded to make it “all right”
Her boy would never be her support. That dream
was relinquished, hut he was her boy still, and no
woman should have the right to reproach him.
lhe girl was about as helpless, childish, and
generally rudimentary a specimen of the working
as could well be found. She had very
little idea in life beyond twisting up her colourless
tlaxen hair with wisps of newspaper—except
taking the wisps out again and smiling under the
thatch at the wearer of the high-heeled boots.
\ V i.,, , was a PProached on the subject by
Arnold s mother, (her own was indifferent) she
blandly acquiesced in everything. So the burden
or it all fell upon the woman who cared. She
hurried home from work to interview the clergy-
man, and finally, personally escorted the youthful
couple to the altar. Sho then provided them with
a ticket each for Westralia, where she managed
to secure a place for the boy. She gave the girl
the best part of her own scanty wardrobe, packed
the luggage for both and went to the wharf to see
them off. When the final moment came, the
agony of separation, which activity had kept
in the background, overcame her. She flung her
arms round him and choked for breath.
Arnold Eugene tipped his hat back from his
forehead. He wondered whether he would be
very sick on board. “ Good-bye, mother,” hesaid.
j"- n d Oh, mother ! ” —She lifted her head eagerly.
”ho could say what her heart hoped in that
second ? His eyes were roving absently.
“Yes, my boy.”—
He looked down at her condescendingly.
... Y °u won’t forget to keep up my insurance,
will you ? ” *
CECIL. WARREN.
Murphy Reminiscent.
[FOIR THE BULLETIN.]
“Now, how old would you tako me to be ? ” said
Paddy, tho old fencer.
“Anything,” I said, “between fifty and
eighty.”
“Well, lam just a few years younger than
George Thornton— Hon. George ho is now ; and I
might have been the Hon. Patrick, or Sir Patrick,
had I had my head built that way, and looked
after myself a bit.”
“George and I used to go hunting for five-
corners out Surry Hills way, and many a time
we’ve been ‘stuck up’—not by bushrangers, but
by great hulking fellows who were too lazy to
hunt for themselves. They used to clean us out
every time.” “No! I never could fight, but I
was a grand runner .”
“ It was I who found the couple that was buried
alive one night at the ‘Sand Hills,’ but that was
long before your time. It was a little dog of hers
that led me to the spot. Tho pair were sitting
beneath a bank of sand when it gave way and their
skeletons were found still in close embrace. My
dad had a big butcher’s shop, and used to supply
pretty well all the ships. I got as good an educa-
tion as could be got then, but it wasn’t compulsory
or free either.”
“No ! I didn’t go to Cape’s school. Why did
you think that ?”
“Yes! I knew Daniel Deniehy, and Dan
O Connor too.”
<l Poor Deniehy was an absent-minded chap—
always had a book in his hand. We lived up
William-street then, and I often used to see
‘Danny,’ but never played with him. Nobody
ever did, because he didn’t play. He always had
a book in his hand—even when he was on a
message for his mother, and he always had his face
right up against it.- He always went right past
the particular shop he wanted, and sometimes had
to walk a mile back. We kids used to wait for
him with a rope across the track, and trip him up
It didn’t rile him a bit. He’d just scramble for
his book and run on again with his face up against
it —must have been short-sighted. Clever ! well,
I can’t say, but he always was reading. Do you
know, I’m sometimes sorry for tripping the poor
fellow ! Yes ! I remember Phil. McCarroll the
butcher too. I used to write all the poetry for his
advertisements, but I haven’t done much at the
game since ; although, mind you, I believe I’m a
born poet.
“How did I become a bushman? Well, I
believe I started up Parramatta way chopping
down Geebung trees and ‘Hellfires.’ I always
wanted to be chopping at something, and I’ve
since had more than I wanted many a time.
George Washington and • Gladstone were great
choppers too. All great men are ! How long
since I’ve been to Sydney! Well, yesterday
thirty-eight years age I left it for Campbelltown
and haven’t seen it since—only in a picture. It
don’t know me, and I don’t know it. Besides, I
only know its big men, and I don’t suppose they’d
care to have the likes o’ me poking around with
them—not after ‘em mind.”'
“ Yes ; mine’s rum ? ”
YARRUM.
On its bill-heads Sydney Star sets down
its circulation at 42,199 daily. One of the direc-
tors being N.S.W. Colonial-Secretary See, it
couldn’t be expected that the paper would tell a
lie for the sake of a single copy.
As pointed out by a Sydney journey-
man baker in the press, the masters’ objection to
the appl.cation of the 8-hour system to the baking
trade is that they have been too long accustomed
to see their men toil from 12 to 16 hours out of
the 24. It is just as possible to adjust the
baking trade to the 8-hour limit as it is any other.
The president of Melb. Eight Hours’
Association made some wise fatherly remarks at
the annual Pioneers’ Dinner the other night. He
“warned the workers against allowing the time to
be cut up. Men could not start the day on a
snack, work four hours, and then get a meal and
be healthy. Had heard it said on last Eight
Hours’ Day—“ These men don’t look as strong
and robust as on previous processions. It was
the outcome of cutting the time which did not
allow the men to do justice to themselves or to
their employers.” Good old President! Man is
what he eats, but he is also how he eats.


A Living Sketetaw
Changed into a Healthy and
Ottl in sores. £ r ' .
Ayer’s
m
. ■
&
*4
<&
mm
A
' Mrs Emily Air, of Murray Park, Adelaide, So. Australia, very kindly sends
us a photograph of herself and family, which we reproduce above, accompanying
the same with the following testimonial:
“The trying hot weather of our summer has a very debilitating effect upon
•hildren. They run down in health, become drowsy, lose appetite, and break
out in sores on the face and head.
“I have invariably found Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a perfect remedy for this condi-
tion. It purifies the blood, restores the appetite, and tones up the whole system.
4 ‘One of my children only twelve month old was transformed from almost a
skeleton into a healthy and robust child simply by giving it small doses of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla.”
Do you wonder, then, that people call it
“ The World’s Greatest Family Medicine”?
It is the greatest family medicine the world ever knew, good for all ages and
ftH conditions. When you take it you get more benefit from your food, your
blood becomes richer, your nerves are made stronger, and the whole system be-
comes filled with new life and vigor.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
A Great Medicine for Weak Children.
Take Ayer's Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other.
FOR
24 Years
Owbridge’S Lung Tonic
*
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs,
WHEtf YOU ASK FOE
a
©
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever be without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
w. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottie*, *ll*. lid.. ii*. B d., 4a5&d.,
and 11*., by all Colonial Chernia**.
Storks, X Patent lUdiciae Vendors.
Wholesale of Vll Londoa «d
Colonial House*.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
FOR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills,. Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Costiveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECHAM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to compleU health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. Uiese
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Meaiemem
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, EMLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9i<4, Is lid, and ‘As 9d each.
g
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
medical common sense.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chronios. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, & thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, hut about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to Innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a 'bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the iinformation em-
braced in its covers. , . , ,
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete nnabndged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. Cd.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dit. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Bkai'ty’s Skcrkts. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist j post free Is. The
Art ok Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One's Self, Is 6d posted. 0100 Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 8s Cd.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post 1b 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets ok Anciknt and Modern Macho. Is M post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40illu8. Is Cd posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
W RITBR, Is Cd.
Iron Nf.d Kelly and lII* Gang (only true history).
Is Cd posted.
Edith O’Gorman's Content Life Unteilbd, Is Cd post.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Ja«. Coates), Is Cd posted.
Chevasne’s Advice to a. Mother, Si fid posted.
Wonderful Budget Sono Boor, over 300 latest soups,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posyd.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is Cd posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1* Cd posted.
NOTE —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
bv him are still obtainable as before. Want of spaoe prevents mentioning any in partieu-
iLstt
SIR ROBERT BEAR, I 6 Park Street, SYPNEY
sdf
gsd
fg
m
SSSS
nMfl M
INVALUABLE TO
l SINGERS & SPEAKERS
m
m
sdf
m
BONNINGTON’S
MOSS
will CURE That Hacking Cough
That Troublesome Cold
i That Annoying Influenza
BONNINGTON’S PILLS.
REMEDY for BILE, INDIGESTION
DISORDERED LIVER.


Tlie Brush Electrical
Engineering Co, Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
X> ID . ,
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
3S Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
ITH proper treatment all Diseases can be
CURED
but not all patients, and this depends entirely on
the condition of the digestive organs, which, if in
perfect order, will be the means of producing rich,
pure blood. Then you can laugh at disease. But
it in an imperfect state they cannot perform their
duties, and impure, weak blood is the result.
Mence the origin of innumerable diseases. In
treatment, the main object should be to remove
the cause—not the result, that will leave of its
own accord. Some men are specialists in all
diseases, and can cure anything and everything,
but the undersigned only professes to cure Two
Diseases, viz., INDIGESTION and RHEUMA-
-1 IoM ; and in this city there are abundant proofs
in the persons of commercial and prominent
gentlemen who were affected in the very
worst forms. My method is—One Remedy
FOR
One Disease, and during my long experience I hare met
these diseases—resulting in Constipation, Spinal Troubles
Contracted Muscles, Stiff Joints, Asthma, Chronic and
Acute Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Gout, Neuralgia
Liver and Kidney Troubles, etc.-not only in persons
walking about, but on their hacks and in their beds.
btifT from head to foot, locked fast, immovable and dia-
figured, with but one desire, viz., that they may die
These are the cases that I have grappled with, and have
cured with the Remedies which I will send to any part
of the globe on receipt of
ONE POUND!
with full particulars. The digestive organs are made
healthy, the stomach, liver and kidneys thoroughly
cleansed, then the food makes rich blood, and disease
takes not only a back seat, but clears out altogether
ARTHUR MALCOLM, Specialist,
169 Grafton-st., Woollaiira, Sydney, N.S.W.
RTHINGTON
IS THE ORIGINAL .. , ,
PLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK*
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
gs
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
€E>fss©©
wx
?©HE JJbBOT
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ tjhle BLOCK:/’
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
J. & J. MAX FIELD, PnopUß., SHEFFIELD.
60
TEARS DTEING
FOR THE LADIES. *
W. O. &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANER?,
40 If OK li ST It 101>M', SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post irum a I. the colonies /irom/dly
attended to.
ROBERTS’
G-eorge and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
dfg
sdf
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • • •
gs
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
dfg
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
SOLE LICENSEES FOE, THE MANUFACTUEE AND SALE OF
THE ROPP STRAIGHT LINE FURNACE
A.3\rj3
Wethey Multiple Deck Furnace with Cooling Hearth
FOR
Roasting,
Chlorinating,
AND
Desulphurising Ores.
sdf
HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL ENGINES AND BOILERS of all sizes, ROCKBREAKERS ROLLS PUL-
VERISERS, CONCENTRATORS, HOISTING ENGINES, HORSE WHIMS, PUMPS of all kinds WATER
WHEELS, PULSOMETERS, BLOWERS AND EXHAUST PANS, COMPRESSORS, ROCK DRILLS ORE CARS
SKIPS AND BUCKETS, ELECTRO-COPPER PLATES, SHAFTING AND PULLEYS BELTING AND OILS
PUS¥iPS
as
Single & Duplex,
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping
purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
We Have Stood the Test
—AND—
Waltlier’a Saddlery
LEADS IN QUALITY AND PRICE.
gsd
WE
TRADE
TO
MAKE
MONEY
No. 1 Stockman’s
Made on strong tree, with
plated bars, plated over head
and round cautle and double
gullet plate, hogskin seat,
fitted with stirrup leathers
and split-leather girths.
BY BIG
TURNOVER
AND
SMALL
PROFITS.
£2 17s, 6d.
Delivered Freight Free to any port or railway station in N.S.W., if cash
is sent with order, or 5 per cent, discount allowed to anv of the adjoiirintr
colonies. CUT OUT THIS ADVERTISEMENT, and we wifi S
21 per cent. Special Bonus.
C. H. WALTHER & CO.,
24a HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Send for our Illustrated Price List
The Best in Australia.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these errand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
OECOND-HAND
AND
TVTEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
BUY PROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
■fcl Saved is equivalent
to £b Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing; of the HOME of b*i
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georc- *t. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDSET
Telephone 1023.
