

S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY
fghg
Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
IS. <sr. WATKIRTS & CO ,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
- —for—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
fgh
Sawing m Wood-Working Machinery
VERTICAL and HORIZONTAL BARES MILLS HOLD THE WORLD’S RECORD.
fgh
The Most Up-to-Hate Machines for
J all Purposes.
Mend for Price& and Particulars.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM' > oi,k'S GEORGE HOT EL, opposites
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Laigest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9a per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
THORNE’S
That’s AIIS
SANDEKAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
obta inab l e at al l hotels an u LICENS EJD (1 ROcE 11 s
I
HOBAFtT.
fgh
gp
m
nn
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2/6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
REST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. 113?“ Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684- George Street, Sydney.
oo
*ra Try If
. J‘ro-
ducer.
ap lllarine !
osted (undercover)
any part of Austra-
lia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. (id.
Sole Agents :
The Result.
jji, 680-682 George- st.. Sydney
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WOKST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address— MAHNO REMEDY CO.,
#8 .Kllgnibet b-st re«t., SY ONE Y.
fgh
OMIEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leaamg lieit oi Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively bjr theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUOOWICT Sc son, ltd.,
TETork, Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
/RICE la. ... per Post Is. 3d.
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
m
How Do! May I send you
» my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDBADE,
201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
fgh
HIGHLAN
fgh
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and 00., 249 GEORGE ST,, SYDNEY.
THE O-HH-A-T . . .
CASCADE ALE
IS HEBE TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH
HONOR FOR AN AUSTRALIAN PRODUCT.
Joshua’s BOOMERANG BRANDY
The following Cable appeared in the local papers of July 1(5:
“ LONDON, July 14.—Messrs. Joshua Bros., of Melbourne, Have been appointed
by Royal Warrant to supply their Boomerang: Brandy to the households of the
Queen, the Prince of 1 Wales, and the Duke of York.”
fgh
To every purchaser of
one of our famous 4s.
(id. Paraguayan 14ct.
GOLD CHAINS (either
Gent.’s or Lady’s) we
will present,. on Pay-
ment of 6s. extra, the
RAILWAY WATCH,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
a JEWELLED, FULL-
DAY, PERFECT
HEVER MOVEMENT,
SHORT WIND WATCH
wound and hands set
from stem, strong and
w
ss
reliable, same as used on thfe railways of Great Britain
W e guarantee entire satisfaction. We make this extra-
ordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE LIST, and to
make ourselves talked about. The Watch and Chain is
sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of 10s. 6d. and 6d
for postage. H. POTIER & CO., 53 Royal Arcade, Sydney!
PHOTOS
From Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and -
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss; 10s, 20*
Money Order or Cheque.
ENGLISII or FRENCH BOOKS.
R. 6ENN€RT,
890 Faubourg, St. Martin, Paris,France
“The Last of Six” .
tales of the Austral Tropics. Bv
Lrnest I avenc. Paper covers, 141 pp. •6d
post free. ’
The Bulletin
VoJ 21. -xS ! o. 1075. j
, r Saturday, September 22, 11JOO.
Pepsterecl at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Hewsn&oer.


SYDNEY COPYING AGENCY
104 Woolloomocloo-St., Sydney.
QABEF.I'I .(*Y-TY F’Kl> COPIES made of rare and urn-
published Books in public and .private libraries.
Students’ information, literary extracts, etc., ip two days,
Price according- to work,
Any-Book or Magazine procured at Sydney price*.
The
The Golden Shanty :
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers.' Paper
. covers, Is. 3d. ; Cloth boards, 2s. 4d. post
free. •
Tales of the Convict System:
By “ Price Warung.” Paper covers, 19S
pp. ; 6d. : , -post free.
The Last of Six :
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp. ; 6d. post
free.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Witt H. Ogit vte. Third Edition. Silk
cloth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp,, 4s. 6d.,
post. free. -%* A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J, Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea.
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *.,* The best book, of
Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“ Steele Rudd ”), With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. *** “Thejolliest
- book yet printed in Australia.”
flSsTSupplied direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any,
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amounts stated.
Soje Wholesale Agents :
Edwards, Duxlop & Ct>., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
* or
OOUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS
(REGISTERED):
885
m
-g Msa yg-T^gg
mk
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and '
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
The Education of “A.G.T.”
"IVTOW there is space a,nd time for the educa-
IXI tion of “A. G.T.”— and of others inci-
dentally. “A.G.T.” arose on July 21 to
question a statement made July 7, and was
led gently along the path of pure reason. Some-
how he has slipped off ; e.g. — ,
Re imagination in painting. - You say (July 21) :
Imagination, in a high and special sense, must create
images in the mind.
Not quite : it was better expressed—thus—
“ Imagination is the faculty of forming mental images ;
but, in the high and special sense, the images must be
created by the mind, not merely reflected from a physical
object.” (*)
There is a certain difference. The complaint pro-
ceeds —
Physical objects reflected on the mind are not created
by the mind.
Therefore physical objects cannot be imaginative.
This syllogism
One moment. It. is not a syllogism; unless
“ imaginative” means “imagination, in a high and
speoial sense ’’—which it does not. Therefore, as
expressed, it goes in the category of four-term no-
syllogisms. Evidently “A.G.T.” thinks obscurely,
expresses loosely, and argues falsely. Presum-
ably this is the syllogism he wishes to con-
struct —
To imagine, in the high and special sense, is to create
images in the mind.
But mentally to reflect images of physical objects is not
to create images.
Therefore mentally to reflect images of physical objects
is nob to imagine, in the high and special sense.
And this syllogism does not state the thought one
whit more clearly than it was stated in the quoted
dictum (*) above. Continue, “A.G.T.” —
is compounded of your definition and
your argument. I am not sure of your terms. -I pre-
sume by “ images ” (in painting) you must mean form of
some sort, and by “ physical objects” things that can be
seen or touched (may I point out that you speak of
“ images ” and “ imagined ” (“ inner spirit ‘ imagined’ ”)
—two very different things.
This education is a toilsome business. Origin-
ally “A,G.T.” wanted to know what “imagina-
tion ” is—“ What do you mean by imagination ? ”
he asked. Well, “imagination ” was defined as
“ the faculty of forming mental images.” Now,
he wants to know what \ “ images ” are. Well,
you can’t get definition past the limits of lan-
guage. “ Mentol images” are mental likenesses,
mental pictures. (And “ What are ‘mental pic-
tures ’ ? ”)
As we are talking about painting, for which
eyes are necessary, “things that can be seen”
will do ava definition of physical objects.” (The
original argument stressed tiie difference between
“physical” and “psychical,” “objects” and
“ ideas as was perfectly plain).
We did speak of (1) “images ; ” (2) of “ inner
spirit imagined.” These may conceivably be two
very different.things : nobody said they were not.
(Why should we be called upon thus to reiterate
the obvious ?)
If this, is your position it means that any picture having
in it faces, figures, trees, land, water, material, imple-
ments, furniture, etc., cannot be imaginative. That is
manifestly false.
What is “manifestly false” is “ A.G.T.’s” con-
ception of a syllogism.
It implies, too, that every time a painter tackles an
imaginative subject he must create new images, and
further, it makes, no difference between Fancy and
Grotesquerie.
Oh ! Oh !
It means that you have left the artist atmosphere,
light, color ; c{>lor without “images ” is as language with-
out the power of speech—you might as well ask him to
paint the scent of a rose or the sound of a bell. The
artist might evade you by the Incongruous—the mutila-
tion of two physical objects—(putting a woman’s head on
the body of a vulture) pose as a person with Imagination
with a leaning to Decoration. (He often does.)
“It means” ? But what does “A.G.T.”
mean? ,
Now every Art imposes certain technical conditions,
and Form is one of the things an artist studies all his art-
life. Everything he has to express has to he said in some
form, and his Imagination or any other quality he can get
into his work, is subservient to the demands of Form.
That is debateable ; but we will nob debate it.
One argument at a time is enough.
Lambert gets form and something else, and I am still of
opinion that a man who can paint the picture of a woman
with a spul in her face, as Longstaff has in “ A Lady in
Black,” paints such a picture as much with imagination
as with bhish and pigment.—A.G.T.
That is intelligible, and it brings the argument
back to the question of imagination—what it is,
and how it is exercised. So, once more . . .
: *. *
First class in Art, stand up and repeat your
catechism ~ '
Q. What is Art?—A.'The foroible xnanifesta-
GABRIELE D’ANNUNZIO.
Drawn from a recent photograph.
tion of emotion, externally interpreted by arrange-
ments of line, form, or colour, or by series of
rhythmie gestures, sounds, or words.
Q. What are the chief kinds .of Art ?— A.
Sculpture, painting, the dance, music, poetry.
Q. Into what two classes are these kinds of Art
commonly divided ? — A. Into idealistic and real-
istic.
Q. What is the difference between these classes ?
— A. Idealistic Art is more concerned with the
representation of ideas—abstract conceptions ;
realistic with the portrayal of .objects—visible,
appearances, concrete facts.
Q. Gan you explain with relation to painting ?
A. A" painter’s “ forcible emotion ” comes in his
vision of the universe. His mind reacts in the first
Elace to the impressions of form and colour which
is eye receives by the agency of light. If he con-
tent himself with making visible these direct im-
pressions he remains essentially a realistic painter.
Q. And as to the idealistic painter ? A. The
idealistic painter .does this and something more.
He is not satisfied with rendering visible a single
impression of external objects. He makes a
mental synthesis of such impressions; derives
from them an idea; and endeavours to render
visible his idea.
Q. Which is the greater kind of art ?— A. From
a human standpoint the idealistic kind is clearly
greater, since it involves a more complex mental
process, requiring a higher mental faculty.
Q. Is then the idealistic painter always superior
to the realistic painter?— A. Not necessarily,
since it is his measure of achievement which is
the measure of his art. The work of an inferior
painter employing a superior process may easily
be less great than the work of a superior painter
employing an inferior process—just as a good
workman with inferior tools may produce better
work than a bad workman with superior tools.
Q. Is there between idealism and realism as clear
a distinction in practice as there is in theory ?
— A. No; in practice these kinds of Art are
merged. But in a realistic painting the subject
has always greater prominence; in ah idealistic
painting the painter.
Q. Can you give an illustration 1 A. Yes; in
the relations of different kinds of pictorial repre-
sentations. Photography is the lowest form of
realistic art, since the photographer adds little or
nothing of his humanity. A photograph is
usually good or bad in proportion as the photo-
grapher has given more or less of himself —
lias chosen his subject and the conditions
under which he pictures it. And it is
beeause the amount of himself which he can give
is limited, that photography is a limited kind of
Art. The realistic artist comes next, in the scale.
His art also is valuable in proportion as he can
make it human by the transference of his own
personality to the canvas ; but he is bound by the
necessity of more or less accurately representing
his subject. The idealistic artist ranks highest
because his subject is only valuable as embody-
ing his idea, and he has thus more scope to convey
all the “ forcible emotion ” which he is capable of
feeling. Since the emotion resides essentially in
the painter, and not in the subject of his painting,
it is plain that the more he can subordinate to his
emotion the form and colour which are necessary
to convey his emotion, the greater, other
things being equal, will be his Art. If
ah artist could convey his emotion to his audience
without any material vehicle whatever, that
transference would be the highest conceivable
form of Art. But since he must materially em-
body his emotion in order to make it visible, then
the highest Art is that which is calculated to pro-
duce the greatest possible emotion with the least
possible admixture of the material elements of
emotion.
Q. What do you know of symbolism in Art ?
A. The symbolist is an idealist chafed by his
fetters. He aims to portray the pure idea, un-
mixed with baser matter; and sometimes he
escapes so far from material form and colour (or
language, or melody) that his idea becomes in-
visible to all but himself.
Q. What do you know of impressionism in
Art?— A. The impressionist is a realist chafed by
his photographic fettejs. He aims to portray the
pure emotion, unmixed with baser matter; and
sometimes he escapes so far from visible scene
and subject (or words, or ears) that his
emotion becomes invisible to all but himself.
That will do for to-day. First class in Art, dis-
miss ! ' v /
*-• * ' *
Reverting to former phraseology, for “ideal-
istic ” read “ imaginative ’’—though the for-
mer has perhaps a more definite conno-
tation. It should now be clear what was
meant by saying that the imaginative artist
creates images in his mind; the realist
reflects them from his environment. Imagination
is a faculty of the human brain ; portraiture a
power of the human-eye. Neither the imaginative
artist nor the realistic can dispense with physical
objects in making their impressions visible; but
the imaginative artist is not so closely tethered to
the object; Some imaginative faculty (in the
ordinary meaning of the words) goes to the making
of the best realistic paintings ; but to imaginative
paintings goes more. And, returningto the original
ground of controversy, it is re-affirmed (now, per-
haps, more intelligibly) that G-. W. Lambert’s work
up to the present is dearly in the realistic
kind of paintings, and not in the imaginative
kind—both essentially as regards the theory, and
practically in the common acceptation of the
terms “realistic ” and “imaginative.”
And if there had been no text there would have
been no sermon. Even “ A.G-.Tr” has his uses—
praise the Lord ! All on this side may join in the
myology—
-1 Some ha’e mens and ha’e no sense ;
Some ha’ena mens that want it;
But we ha’e mens and we ha’e sense,
And so the Lord be thankit.
- ———
An article in July Quarterly Review considers
Gabriele d’Annunzio, the Italian poet and novel-
ist who takes foremost rank at the present day.
The writer says:
He has done great things; if to have attained the secret
of style, and to give back the enchantments of landscape,
were all, he would deserve to rank with the masters.
Amid the chaos of journalism, with its piebald jargon,
its vulgarities of thought and tone, he has fulfilled his
own message, which declares that “ the word is life and
perfection.” Submitting to what seems a law of human
growth, he takes the prose which is on men’s lips, since
they will hot endure rhyme or formal poetry, and refines,
adomS, deepens it, until it astonishes, yet charms, as if it
were the style of gods. He breaks in pieces the artificial
Italian, showy but unmeaning, a pedant’s exercise,
which has made it impossible almost to write a living
book in that language since the seventeenth century, as
ifanzoni bore witness and every student will acknow-
' ledge. . .
But instead of merely resuscitating the antique forms,
becoming a sccentistu or a trecentista, the man throws
himself boldly on the current of his inspiration, he
snatches from painters their palette with its rainbow;
from mystics their incomparable metaphors, imagery,
fire of spiritual emotions; from musicians their minors
and chromatics ; from every art something, provided it
be individual, not a fancy hung out on the void, hut a
fact huming as in the spectrum with its peculiar flame.
In the “ grey flood of Democracy ” —by which lie means
the marsh-level that covers old institutions, yet sees no
imperial Venice rising above it with palaces and towers
language remains, for those who will handle it like line
gold, an inheritance beyond the assaults of barbarism.
And language, the creative Word, shaping itself into
drama, into ideal forms, will, as D’Annunzio lie ieves, call
to its aid the plastic arts, sculpture, painting, architec-
ture, and some larger music-even than we know ; making,
let us say, a swan-like end, should the -inner barbarians
prove too strong for it. . . .
D’Annunzio is, at last, neither Romantic nor. Decadent;
he is one born out of du9 time, meant to he the com-
panion of princes in the age of Leo X, a hero of the Re-
naissance who must employ his pen where the sword or
the pencil would be more to his liking. One gift lie calls
his own—the “inviolate style,” whieji frames all his
thoughts “ lucid or terrible ” in words of immortal comeli-
ness. It has brought him European fame j it may herald
the dawn of a new Italian literature.
ALFRED TENNYSON READING “MADD.”
From a drawing by D. G. Rossetti.
I). G. Rossetti’s poems are little read in Aus-
tralia : his scanty prose is read less, yet it is worth
reading. His brief comments on painters of his
day Still hold interest : his romantic sketches
interest more by their personality of style and
atmosphere than by intrinsic literary value.
Rossetti wrote an individual prose, quietly melo-
dious, not unlike that which W. B. Yeats prac-
tises to-day ; but with a sharper note m it, The
tone of the first, sentence in Rossetti’s “ Hand and
Soul” - '
Before any knowledge of painting was brought to
Florence, there were already painters in Lucca, and Pisa,
and Arezzo, who feared God and loved the art—
could be paralleled in many sentences from “ The
Secret Rose.” In strong distinction from his
poems, Rossetti’s prose is rarely rhetorical —so
rarely that one thinks he deliberately set a gulf
between the manners of this and that: The com-
mentary on Blake’s paintings and poems, which
is at this day most valuable of his prose pieces, is
less carefully composed than the stories are, yet
gives a similar impression of lucid thought easily
clothed in words. And these are some of
Rossetti’s fragmentary notes and ideas to which
one desires to give further currency—
-1866. —Thinking in what order Move colours, found the
following r
1. -Pure light warm green.
2. Deep gold-colour. •
3. Certain tints of grey.
4. Shadowy or steel blue.
5. Brown, with crimson tinge.
6. Scarlet.
. Other colours (comparatively) only loveable according
to the relations in which they are placed.
Picture and poem beat 1 the same relation to each other
as beauty does in man and woman- the point of meeting
where, the two are most identical is the supreme perfec-
tion.
Poetry should seem to the hearer to have been always*
present to his thought, but never before heard.
The deepest trait of nature, in fiction will appear as if
nothing but fact could have given it birth, and will yet
show that consummate art is its true source-
Paris. Ndsbit’s new paper, (not newspaper) con-
tinues its mission of setting the world right (.“I
rap sin best,” declares his anagram). And “in
the Morning sow thy seed ” is Scripture, but Nes-
bit is just as pleased to sow' the other fellow’s.
Without a word of acknowledgment he appro-
Eriates Poe’s “To Helen”; addresses it “To
ita ” ; and offers it “To My Sweethearts ” with
other verses bad enough to be his own.
Several correspondents supply unkind remarks
about The outpost, which turns out to be another
echo of The Bulletin, first heard in Melbourne
four or five months kgo. But the paper isn’t big
enough to hit back at. Let’s rather nope it may
continue to pay pen- and picture-people “ the best
rates in Australia” till its doomsday. And if it
lives well, we would be all the livelier for two
Bulletins, or half-a-dozen, in full (the appropriate
word) blast. Good for the contributors, the
journals, and the country.
The not too-gay 'correspondent
J.K.M. alleges that the anecdote of Irishman and Jew
(30/6/’0) is paraphrased from Tom Paine ; and wants a
reference to a translation of •* Marshal Biron’s ‘ Dream of
Conquest.’”,'. . ~ Investigator : Why not ask them your-
self? . . . Embryo : No use trying to get specialist's books
in Australia. The local bookseller imports what he thinks
will sell, and will not risk £5 a year beyond the selling-
rut. Write direct to Williams and Norgate, Cerent
Garden, London.
Edwin Markham’s “Mail with the Hoe” verses
turn out to have beep imitated from some which
Cora E.. Chase, an obscure Californian writer, pub-
lished in 1893 in The Californian Illustrated
Mupttziue tinder the same title, to illustrate the
same picture. Markham Was then a subscriber and
contributor to the magazine. Miss Chase’s first
verse runs : .
THE MAN WITH THE HOE.
O. peasant, delving 1 in the stubborn soil,
What solace has this Mother Earth for thee?
Oainiiig thy bread through years of bitter toil,
Contented, like the cattle, just “ to be! ”
The patience of the yoked ox is thine—
What childlike patience in thy wondering eyes 1
Oh,,do. they, ever note the daisy’s shine,
Or turn they ever to the' vaulted skies ?
11% '.—sic transit. . ,
Cliurton Collins’ edition of Tennyson’s
early poems shows ( onoe more how T. im-
proved his -work as lie matured his art.
Consider an alteration in “A Dream of
Fair Women - ‘
What nights wfe had in .Egypt! I could hit
His humours while j cross’d him. O the life
I led him, and the dalliance and the strife !
■ changed to
We drank the Libyan Sun to sleep, and lit
Lamps which outbum’d Canopus. 0 my Hf#
In Egypt! 0 the dalliance and the wit,
The..flattery and. the strife ! -
Or the old stanza in “ The MillerV
Daughter
How dear to me in youth, my love,
Was everything about the mill
.The black and silent pool above,
The pool beneath it never still.
And the new stanza — *
l loved the brimming wave that swam
Throngh quiet'shadows round .the mill,
The sleepy pool above the dam,
The pool beneath it never still.®
Herein is another buttress for the argu-
ment that. Tennyson was essentially a poet
of art and artifice, not of fiery inspiration.
THE BOOKEELLOW.


gh
(Size, when closed, 3i inches).
Write for W. JNO. BAKER’S Free Illustrated, Designs
... of Cutlery . . .
W. JNO. BAKER’S No. 211 FINE QUALITY and FINISH, Stag Handle, 3-Blade
with Bolster Ends, as illustrated, 4/6 each, Post Free any Colony.
W. JNO. BAKER, Cutler, 3 Hunter Street, Sydney.
POCKET
KNIVES
ASTORAL
INANCE
SSOC’N HaTD.
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS
—(SELLING ONLY)—
LOWEST CHARGES. HIGHEST RETURNS.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
SY DUE Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
1 9d
J
till
vo
vVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING <
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by i
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-i
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, -Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands. (
THEY WILL CURE YOU.,
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 i
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0 |
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 330 |
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0 |
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and <
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, j
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to — j
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney |
fgh
PLAIN HOM€ TALK
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, bub about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the'imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-to-Datb Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
. NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
The Jolliest Book of the Year
“ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Mort+Co
LIMITED.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming: Wool Season :
2 3
o
o
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT WOOLGROWERS
“ New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :
COMMISSION f per Cent. .
WARN HOUSING- (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charge will be ... ... ... ... ... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of agara-aPia,! Slcina Held Weefcly.
VINOLIA WAR FUND
AMOUNTS TO
REPRESENTING NEARLY
5,000,000 HA’PENNIES!
id. sent on every tablet sold.
m
eRS ' *° l
e*
th»nM
<i\w
witn
d**-~
**c
7K
10,
filin'
the
jied ®*
roP rl
„ •••■
»<»”*• "**
jo»" yoC
&
m
Vinolia Soap is specially prepared for Sensitive Skins.
1803
s ao<i
sfloo
1/7 Sfio7
tg*
C B B
Guaranteed noT lo or burp.
aviaa
vaao>
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our « Can’t B Beat » Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling Daily.
piick simmons
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Car© GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Demonstration H.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
Oct. 1.
shares in above.
Caulfield C. October 20.
100,000 Subscribers at A,
To TATTERS ALL*
Please allot me . shares in the above.
Name, ■
Address ———-
4S • x
Caulfield C. (SPECIAL).
100,000 Subaoribora at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot mo. shares In above.
Kamo - ■ -
JZ • »
Address.
Melbourne 0. November 6.
100,000 Bubaorlbera at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
t
Address
Melbourne C.
November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at &
To TATTERSAUk
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
t
s
Melbourne C. (special.)
100,000 Subscriber* at 5.
To TATTERS ALE*,
Please allot me.
Name
.shares in the above.
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tattersall,” care Q-eo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
Bgst Prices.
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
~O u ° s '
A^ p
f°*
i\V^
Vl* 1
Just a Cough
This is its story :
At first, a slight cough.
At last, a hemorrhage.
At first, easy to cure.
At last, extremely difficult.
eitcrra
Pectoral
quickly conquers your hack-
ing cough. There is no doubt
about the cure now.
For over half a century
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
been curing colds and coughs
and preventing consumption.
Put up in large and small bottles.
A cure is hastened by plac-
ing over the chest one of
Dr. Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral Plasters.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Crpbrocatioi?
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Kheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints ir. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S CipbrocatioQ-
Australia!) ProVidcpt Society.
MONEY TO liEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and O.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS oombined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
Head Office : 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HMWugfV.
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sb.,
SYDNEY.
03iT Send for a
Catalogue.
fgh
FOR THE
&OKO
i«P
g m$tMA
TRADE MARK
BEGiS i ERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
KOKO
HAIR
«yc\>
E DWARDS’
LL
ura
THE
U^UJ
THE GREAT HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
The Finest Dress ng, Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
Has the distinguished honour of being used in almost every Royal
Palace throughout the World.
fgh
Monsieur Philosophow is commanded by
HER MAJESTY
THE QUEEN OF GREECE
to forward cheque for the six bottles of
“ Harlene ” duly received.
H.R.Hi Princess Marie of Greece wishes six bottles of Edwards’
“ Harlene” for the Hair sent immediately.
Crown Prince's Palace, Athens, Greece.
H, R.H. PRINCESS MARIE OF GREECE writes : Messrs. Edwards’
Preparation, “ Harlene ” for the Hair, has given entire satisfaction.
H.R.H. The DUKE OF SPARTA
“ Harlene *’ for the Hair sent by express parcel post.
Palace of Prince Royal, A thens.
requires six bottles of Edwards’
H.R.H. PRINCESS HOHENLOHE,
of “ Harlene ” for the Hair by return.
Esterhazy Uteza,3o , Buda-Pest.
writes : Please send me three bottles
H.R.H. PRINCE GEORGE of GREECE
Canea, Crete.
■ (High Commissioner of Crete)
writes: Please to forward three bottles of “ Harlene ’’ for the Hair at once.
l/.j 3/6» and (3 times z/6 size), 4/6 per Bottle, everywhere.
]re you Too Stout ?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALINC REMEDY CO., 38
Ellzabeth-street, Sydney.
FAG-SIMILE OF
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL
Cjii
Lo 9-y" 1 '■&, CksLA,
'He, / ??&.
/U?
Wax £> 9 H^suvu)
hujUfrz, o ukx
f lo
iuXM &\
—' T_ o
Eradicates Scurf and Dandr ff, Prevents Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and Its
unique Testimonials prove it to be undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the Hair.
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, Cool, 4 Invigorating, i a 6 & 4/6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Stores Ac. THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO., LTD., 16, Bevis Marks, LONDON, ENG.
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MEL BOURN E-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light. Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
Hollow Ground
Jl*'
fgh
fgh
gh
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADE 6
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON. W
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Outward Bound.
Black night! and the head-lights waking,
To watch where the steamers stray ;
Still drowsy, they're blinking, shaking
The stupor of noon aivay.
Disabled for all time coming,
I haven't the heart to fight.
Full speed I with the boilers humming,
Fm going to sea to-night.
A cripple at six-and-twenty,
I’m stranded ashore for good—
From Hull to the Bay of Plenty
They’re straining the steel and wood.
To-night how the surf is sobbing !
Thank God I can hear the sea,
And steamers that pass by throbbing :
How sweet are these sounds to me !
Who watched, with my young blood flooding
And swelling in heart and brain,
The tracks that the brown screws, thudding,
Cut out with an oily stain.
I know them—the little coaster,
The liner, the square-bowed tramp ;
I’m neither a liar nor boaster —
I know by their pistons’ stamp
In-shore, where the rocks just clear them,
The spray on their dripping sides;
I cannot see, but I hear them
Go out on the rippling tides.
Due east, where the stars are paling,
Their ponderous engines go —
To North and to South they’re sailing,
And humming a song I know.
Black hull and a salt-rimmed funnel,
A collier passes now,
The seas on her low-set gun’ale
And smashing across her bow ;
Huge well-decks, for’ard and after,
That gape like the jaws of doom—
Yet hark to the rattling laughter
That comes from the engine-room
Where glistening rods, click-c aching,
Rip high with a rush and jar ;
Then sink with the cross-leads racking
And straining each guiding-bar.
Green hull and a funnel crimson,
And growling an ocean-song,
Clean run where she sweeps and swims on
The tide as she soars along.
Flush deck amidships and for’ard
And stretching unbroken aft,
A passenger-boat steers Nor’ard,
Oh, hark to her lilting shaft!
The thrill of her hull’s resistance,
The trip of her tail-rods true,
Die down in the voiceless distance
As ever the good songs do.
From Hull to the Brisbane spooning,
From here to the Gate of Gold,
I’ve heard the eccentrics crooning
A song that is never old ;
From Perth to the Horn a-thrashing
I’ve listened o’ nights to hear
The tune that the steel was clashing
So solemn and slow and clear ;
From Leith to the port of Aden
From Sydney to Pechi-li
They chant to the lone mermaiden
The song that they sing to me.
Big, little, well-found and crazy
Are putting to sea to-night;
But is it the night is hazy ?
Or is it the ships are white
That race for the Heads and offing,
So close that I hear the sound
Of screws as they flounder, coughing,
In haste to be outward bound ?
To North and to East and South’ard
And never a one for me—
I call, but my cry is smothered
Out there by the noisy sea.
But out of the harbor’s twilight
Hard driven, comes one ship more ;
Soft lights in her ports and skylights
And funnel and bows a-roar ;
White foam where her inad propeller
Is cursing her steam’s demand . . .
Oh ! somebody call and tell her
To wait for a paid-off hand
Who, crippled at life’s beginning,
Still longs for the sounding steel
That’s driving her, hot and spinning,
With never a jump or squeal.
They’ve rung her astern ! She slackens ;
See there how her big blades spoon !
She’s stopping ! Her dark hull blackens
The path to the rising moon.
Half blinded, men called me ‘ ‘ dreamer,
A cripple, they shunned me, so
I’ll go to sea in the steamer
That carried me, years ago.
From ocean to ocean thrashing
When, waking, I used to hear
The tune that the steel was crashing
So solemn and slow and clear.
Full moon ! and the hood-tide swimming
On pebble and stone and sand,
White mists of the Night are dimming
The lights and the loom of land.
A cripple for all time coming,
I haven't the pluck to fight.
Full speed 1 with the transom strumming
A tune that I love. Good-night!
M.li.
QUILP N.
G. R. Dibbs’ proposal that every person
who becomes a civil servant should also become
a volunteer has, after protracted consideration by
the Lyne Ministry, been rejected.


THE
PLUM
fgh
Price—SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d.; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires srindinjf. yy£<
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CR.A.IGr & A.ITKEKT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDKTBY.
The Australian UJidouis’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
rpHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special .Policies granting— . . . . .
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income ... ... exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus. ] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
fgh
FEDERAL mitt HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMER, AND
CENTRE OF CITY.
Every Modern Convenience
Electric Light in Every Room
Sanitary Arrangements Perfect
Home Comforts
Suites for Families.
ROOMS ALL SIZES, ALL PRICES.
For Cards of Tariff write to . .
H, Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
WOOLGROWERS! you
have created our reputa-
tion and name ; and for
30 YEARS we have never failed to honor your confidence. We ask you to honor us
by supporting us, WHO, OF YOUR MAKING, are
The Largest All-Round Brokers in New South Wales.
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L T ?
Financiers; Wool, Hides, Tallow, Skins, and General Produce Brokers.
bftEFULLYATTHE BRAND."
TO
.BB
isteredlrad&Mar^
II II n-r
n
fgh
I
V
s=a
I
a Man from Manly
Relates the following: experience:
Our Home was built nearly four years ago upon a rock, out of which water is oozing at all times
of the year, and while the foundations below the P & B Damp Course are always wet, the
walls above are always dry. As the foundation over which the Dampcourse was laid is l£" wider than
the wall, that portion which projected was covered with cement. In one place this cement has been
accidentally removed, thus exposing the Dampcourse, which shows no signs of deterioration whatever.
"Pl’lg FOWI Houses as as a P° rt * on °* t ' ie home proper, was roofed with R& B Ruberoid
Roofing, nearly four years since, and appears perfectly good now, in fact,
during the recent heavy rains and gales, when 68 miles an hour were recorded by Mr. Russell, and
during which our Tile Roof was quite inadequate to keep out the storm, our P & <8 Ruberoid Roof
was perfectly watertight. This roof cost less, and is cooler than the iron roof over the scullery.
W/q Always ICOGP a ot R& B Ruberoid about the place for general use. it is such a handy
material to handle, my wife can handle it as well as she can a piece of carpet.
The Ruberoid gets a bit dark after a while, so we have painted it with R & B Red Ideal
Paint, to match the tiles in colour. We are now using it as a Ceiling under the iron roof of the
scullery, which makes the room much cooler.
Piß RUBEROID COSTS LESS THAN GALVANISED IRON.
E. RICH * COMPANY L
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
EXCLUSIVELY SQUATTERS’ SUPPLY
MERCHANTS.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office , Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vor. 21.-No. 1075.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1900.
Pbiob 6d.
THE EISHWIVES-OR THE QUARREL AT THE CROSS-ROADS.
See controversy in daily press, provoked by Archbishop Redwood’s Cathedral-dedication sermon. Meantime, “ the heathen in hia blindness ” etc


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians. 9 ’
Printed and Published by William Maolkod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to TJre Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with ptotage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that toe
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Cordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, S/A Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 32 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of Iffil. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage—lid. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1900.
A. Policy for the Commonwealth-
Paying off the Federal Debt, and
Other Matters.
When the Commonwealth Government has
taken over and consolidated the State debts
it has two courses to choose from. It may
bo honest or it may be dishonest. So far,
the States have been shamefully and dis-
gracefully dishonest. In their dealings with
the loan funds the policy of the best of them
would have disgraced a three-card sharp
or a wheel-of-fortune man. Within the
last 40 years there is hardly an Austra-
lasian Minister who, for the harm he has
done to posterity in this one matter,
doesn’t deserve to be hanged—personally if
possible, in effigy if the personal proceeding
is not possible. The short and simple creed
of the average Australian Minister has been
to make things easy for himself and his con-
temporaries by the ruin of his and their
children; to avoid taxation in the
present by selling the public estate
and treating the proceeds as revenue, and
to avoid it again by paying ordinary current
expenses out of loans and leaving the repay-
ment of these loans to posterity, thus
diminishing the inheritance of future genera-
tions on one hand and heaping up their
burdens on the other. It has been a policy
of unmanly cowai’dice as,well as of unmanly
dishonesty. Worst of all, the policy of Aus-
tralia’s politicians has, in the last 40 years, so
corrupted the public conscience that it is
almost impossible to arouse the community
to a knowledge that there is anything wrong
about their remarkable doings. Further, it
lias so undermined the courage, manliness,
and self-reliance of the nation that any pro-
posal to the effect that Australia should pay
its ordinary expenses out of ordinary taxa-
tion, as many far poorer nations do, is
invariably met with the piteous whine that
this great, rich country “can’t afford it.”
If Australia is ever going to reform in this
matter it can’t do better tha'n make a begin-
ning with the inauguration of the Common-
wealth.
• * m *
Roughly speaking, the six federating
States have among them a public debt (fixed
and floating) of about £200,000,000. Of
this sum, to begin with, about £36,000,000
has been spent on public works, or alleged
works, which yield no return, which are
never expected to yield any return, and
which are really matters of ordinary expen-
diture and should be charged against ordinary
revenue. A large amount has gone in immi-
gration, something in State aid to religion
(preachers’ salaries and the like), in ammu-
nition, education, mining and agricultural
subsidies, in salaries, street and road repairs
and the like. Even the State aid to religion
has been cheerfully described as a “ per-
manent and reproductive work.” A vast
amount has gone in repurchase of land for
various purposes ; that is to say, the State
sold the land and used the proceeds as
revenue, and then bought the land back
with loan-moneys. Then, in addition to
this,, nearly £10,000,000 of the fixed and
floating debt has been openly and un-
ashamedly put into revenue to make
good deficiencies which arose because
the Australian (even after using the
proceeds of land sales . as revenue, and
charging an enormous amount of his ordi-
nary daily expenses to loans) hadn’t grit
enough to pay the remainder of his out-
gings out of ordinary taxes. About another
£12,000,000 of borrowed money has been
surreptitiously used, not for works of any
kind, productive or unproductive, but for
the purpose of paying interest. Fully five
times out of six these States have floated
their loans at a lower rate of interest than
their credit was good for ; consequently they
had to float them at a discount. And that
discount was simply part of the interest
permanently added to the public debt.
When a State whose credit was only good
enough to enable it to borrow at £3 10s. per
cent., floated a 3 per cent, loan at £93 and
thereby created a liability of £1,000,000 in
return for £930,000 cash, the interest pay-
able on the money actually received was
£3 4s. 6d. per cent., and the £70,000 added
to the debt for which there was no cash
received represented the other ss. 6d. per
cent, interest. Which meant that that part
of the interest was paid out of the borrowed
money because the country was too tired to
face its full responsibilities.
• * * •
And even in the matter of the moderate
proportion of the loans which were spent on
reproductive public works, the Great Aus-
tralian Loan Fraud asserted itself. In every
honestly-conducted mercantile business, de-
preciation and wear and tear are charged to
revenue. The Australian States never did
this. When they borrowed money for
wharves, bridges, telegraph-wires and posts,
buildings, &c., they never supplied out of
revenue a sufficient sum to cover the loss
that must needs arise through old age and
the mere passage of time. When the old
wooden wharf that was built out of loan-
money wore out, a new one was built, also
out of loan-money, and another new one
when that wore out, and so on. The old
unpaid-for telegraph-posts, and the old nn-
paid-for iron telegraph-wires, were simi-
larly replaced. The unpaid-for obsolete
wooden bridge was replaced by an unpaid-
for iron one. The unpaid-for steam-tram
is giving place to an unpaid-for electric-
tram, and the new strong unpaid-for loco-
motive is taking the place of the old, weak,
obsolete unpaid-for locomotive that has gone
to the scrap-heap. So the Great Loan
Fraud may come under five heads, includ-
ing the money that was borrowed for unpro-
ductive works ; the money that was bor-
rowed to eke out the revenue ; the money
that was borrowed to pay interest with over
and above that used to eke out the revenue ;
the money that was borrowed to pay for
works reproductive in their day but now
either greatly depreciated through age, or
as dead and gone as Claudius Caesar ;
and the money borrowed to buy back land
which had been previously sold and the pro-
ceeds used as revenue. For when the State
sells land at £1 an acre and treats the £1 as
revenue, and then buys it back at £3 or £5
or more an acre, for however reproductive a
purpose, the least the revenue can honestly
do is to disgorge that original £l. The six
States of the Commonwealth owe among
them £200,000,000, and of that sum fully
£80,000,000 is pure swindle—a stupendous
monument to the cowardice and incapacity
of Australia’s legislators, and, worse still,
of its people.
* * * *
The Bulletin does not propose that the
Commonwealth Government, when it takes
over the State debts, should make any attempt,
by levying extra taxation for the purpose, to
pay off the results of this monumental fraud.
It doesn’t propose to advocate impossibili-
ties, or even violent improbabilities. The
two axioms—that Australia is, in proportion
to population, about the richest country in
the world, and that it is at the same time
too miserably poor to stand any additional
taxation—have taken too deep root in the
Australian mind. It merely proposes that
every penny of the amount saved by the con-
version of the existing State debts into a
cheaper uniform Federal stock shall be set
apart as a sinking-fund for the reduction of
the debt, and for its final extinction. It
proposes that, as each separate State loan or
portion of a loan is converted into Federal
stock, the total amount that was payable in
interest thereon in 1900—the last year of
separate State control—shall be made a per-
manent charge on the Federal revenue.
That when the whole of the State debts are
taken over and converted into Federal
stock the whole of the interest that
was payable on these debts in 1900
shall be made a permanent charge on the
Federal revenue. And that the charge shall
remain until, through the saving effected in
interest, the whole of the State debts, as
they were on 31st December, 1900, are paid
off—whereupon a load of some £8,000,000 a
year will be suddenly lifted off this country,
and railway-fares can be reduced nearly one-
half, and the millenium will set in. Also
that the debt which is owing outside Aus-
tralia shall be paid off first, not a penny of
the locally-owned stock being redeemed till
the English debt is liquidated.
* * * *
This isn’t proposing very much ; The
Bulletin would propose a great deal more
if it saw the remotest hope of any larger
proposition being favorably considered. It
is simply suggested here that a sharp line
be drawn underneath the present debt—the
Old Federal Debt it may be called—and that
a systematic attempt be made to clear it off,
whatever happens to the New Federal Debt
(presumably the Commonwealth will
promptly start a New Federal Debt) later
on. It isn’t proposed to levy a single
penny of extra taxation to liquidate the
debt—this paper reckons it knows its
countrymen better than that but
only to . apply the savings made by
future conversion processes to paying off
the loans. By this method the present
£200,000,000 of debt won’t cost a penny more
than it does now ; it will continue to cost
the same amount, and that is all. It will be
all paid off without a fraction of extra taxa-
tion or an ounce of extra effort. The old
pauper plea that “the country can’t afford
it ” is barred out in this case ; the fact that
the country has afforded it in 1900 is suf-
ficient evidence to the contrary. In adopt-
ing this policy Australia will be closely fol-
lowing an old established British precedent,
and surely, at this time of Jingo enthusiasm,
when Australia follows so many bad British
precedents, it can’t object to follow one good
one. Especially in N.S.W., where it is so
persistently preached that Revenue Tariff-
ism must be right because it is British,
surely no one will be found to deny that a
systematic policy of paying off the public
debt must be right when Britain follows it.
The annual British vote for the service of the
public debt has for many years (with the
single exception of the war year 1900-1901)
included a large sum to go in reduction
of the principal of the debt. It has
frequently been suggested that it is absurd
to pay off old debts with one hand while
incurring new ones with the other, and that
when Australia has finished borrowing for
public works it will be time enough to start
liquidating. If Britain had adopted that
idea the decrease of £200,000,000 which has
been effected in its liabilities would never
have been even attempted. No country
knows when it has finished borrowing.
* * * •
And as regards future loans—what may be
called the New Federal Debt, supposing
there must be such a thing— The Bulletin
desires to offer four propositions : (1) That
no money be borrowed save for directly
reproductive purposes ; (2) that all loans
have a currency of so many years (not more
than 25 if possible), and be thereafter repay-
able at the option of the Commonwealth
only—this will save the constant expense of
renewal; (3) that every new loan shall
have attached to it a sinking fund of
at least £1 per cent, to accumulate at
compound interest for its extinction ; and
(4) that every new loan shall be floated in
Australia, even if, on some rare occasion, the
money costs 10s. or more per cent, above the
English rate, and that the interest on these
securities be subject to income-tax and to a
crushing absentee-tax—this latter to prevent
wholesale exportation. Allowing for the
saving in cost of flotation in London, in
British stamp duty, in cost of management,
in income tax on the interest (interest paid
in Britain being free of Australian income-
tax), and the saving of the cost of remitting
the interest to England twice a year, and
the principal when the loan is repaid, it is
an economical proceeding to pay a far higher
rate on Australian loans than on English
ones. An English loan of £1,000,000 at 3
percent, takes, in 50 years, £1,500,000 out
of this country in interest alone,' and pro-
bably another £lOO,OOO in discounts and
miscellaneous expenses, and when the loan
money is repaid £1,600,000 of good Austra-
lian money has totally departed out of Aus-
tralia. A £1,000,000 loan floated in this
country at 3% per cent, would cost practically
nothing in expenses, and £1,750,000 (less
income-tax) in interest. So the difference
may be summed up in this question : Is it
cheaper for £1,600,000 to go out of the coun-
try, or for £1,750,000 to remain in it ? Is a
country richer for losing £l6 or for re-
taining £l7 10s. ?
* * * *
As regards the plea that Australia hasn’t
enough money to subscribe its own loans,
that is too puerile to stand investigation.
It is the finance of the infant school or the
kindergarten. The amount which a country
can lend to its Government, provided the
Government spends the money in the coun-
try and thus puts it in circulation again, has
no relation at all to the amount of money in
the country. The actual money in Great
Britain in the days of the great Napoleonic
wars is estimated by the best statistical
authorities to have been about £23,000,000,
and out of that Britain lent its Government
in 24 years £601,000,000 (nominal) —in other
words, even allowing for the fact that the
loans were issued at a great loss, it lent
every penny it possessed 15 or 20 times over.
In 1890 all the gold and silver in the world
was estimated at 2450 million pounds’ worth,
and out of this the world had lent to its various
national Governments alone 6160 millions,
to say nothing of thousands of millions lent
to provincial and city governments, to banks
in the shape of deposits, and to other people
and institutions. The people of the Seven
Provinces of Australasia lent three or four
millions to their State and municipal govern-
ments last year, and their stock of coin,
instead of diminishing, increased by
£4,000,000. They own only £25,000,000
in cash, yet they have lent out of that
£102,000,000 to their banks alone in de-
posits. Australasia, with £25,000,000 of cash,
could lend its governments £300,000,000 in
30 years (£10,000,000 a year) or even much
more, provided the money was spent on
public works in the country. And it could do
this without diminishing the stock of money,
or seriously reducing the amount of money
available for private enterprise. In fact,
it would enormously increase the amount
available for private enterprise ; instead of
there being £24,000,000 of coin in the
country there would be, at the end of 30
years, the same £24,000,000 in coin, and
£300,000,000 in liquid and negotiable
State securities, making £324,000,000, and
also £300,000,000 worth of remunera-
tive public works. The Bulletin isn’t
suggesting anything incredible or unusual
when it proposes that all Australian loans,
Federal, State, or municipal, should be
floated locally. If Australia had lent to
its Governments the entire £200,000,000
which they so foolishly borrowed in Eng-
land it -would have done nothing more re-
markable than Britain did when it lent all
its visible cash to its Government 20 times
over in 24 years—and still had the cash at
the end of that time.
Bogus-Patriotism and Beal Sweating.
“An Australian-born Doctor ” to The Bulletin :
A.N.A., as most people know, stands for the Australian
Natives’ Association. Started in Victoria, it is establish-
ing- branches in the neighboring States, and inviting all
Australians to join for the furtherance of Patriotism and
the love of Fatherland. So far as can be seen, the A.N. A.
is the very last organisation which is entitled to flourish
in the light of those principles—it has merely degraded
noble watchwords to cheap and nasty uses. The A.N.A.
in Victoria has been the tool of the petty parish politician;
its meetings have degenerated into lodge-caucuses where
wily men use “ Patriotism ” for self-aggrandisement and
the wreaking of personal grudges. Even the occasional
flag-waving and recitation of Gordon’s poems which con-
stitute the Association’s only honest utterance of national
spirit are a mere tickling-of-ears of the groundlings.
* * * *
Lately, however, the Association has developed its most
vital characteristic—the medical benefit-clause of its rules
—and aspires, in virtue of its “ Australian Nationality,”
to head the list of the lodges and benefit societies which
sweat the Australian medical profession. And every well-
to-do man who swallows its bait, and gets cheap medical
attendance under the title of patriotic union, thereby
becomes a soulless sweater and disgraces his name of
Australian.
• * * •
The A.N.A. in Victoria has cried out that the worker
should not be cheated of his just reward ; and it is using
the power and popularity so obtained to further cut down
the miserable fees of its doctors. While insisting upon an
eight-hours working day for workers in general, with a
due proportion of holidays and adequate pay, the A.N.A.
works its unlucky medico all round the clock, week in
and week out, at a rate which can only be called a sweat-
ing rate—though the medico is often as good an Aus
tralian native as the fatted A.N.A. President himself.
Section 2 of the A.N.A. General Laws runs as follows :
“ The objects of the association shall be to raise a fund
by voluntary subscriptions of and levies upon its mem-
bers i. To provide surgical and medical aid and medi-
cine to benefit members, their wives, and unmarried
daughters under twenty (20) years of age, and unmarried
sons under sixteen (16) years of age; and, in certain cases,
to honorary members, and to the widows and widowed
mothers of benefit members, and to the sisters under
twenty (20) years of age, and brothers under sixteen (16)
years of any unmarried benefit member who may be sup-
porting a widowed mother and such sisters and brothers,
or whose widowed mother may be deceased, and who con-
tinues to support such sisters and brothers.”
* * * *
Taking a general average, each benefit member repre-
sents between three and four persons. These include
children and old people, the classes which make the
greatest call on a doctor’s time (the average single man
does not belong to a lodge unless he is obliged) ; and the
doctor may be called out at any hour of the day or night
on the request of the member. A limit (usually
of three miles) is fixed within which he can make
no charge for mileage ; and outside of this, he is
bound down to a mere fraction of the usual moderate
rates—condition of roads, or even absence of roads, not
being considered. Patients who are able to do so are ex-
pected to attend at the doctor’s surgery, but this is left
to their own discretion and the national tired feeling.
For all this—attendance on three people (taking the lowest
average) during all hours of the day and night, within a
radius of three miles—the generous anti-sweating A.N.A.
offers an average annual reward of thirteen shillings and
sixpence ; or, roughly, one penny per patient per week.
It is small wonder that the N.S.W. Brit. Med. Association
has resolved that this is “ prejudicial to the interests of
the Medical Profession.”
* * * *
Were this system established for the benefit of the poor
there would probably be no objection made ; but now
comes the worst part of the story. Desirous of gathering
all the influence it can, the A.N.A. deliberately touts for
well-to-do members, and encourages them to freely use
their medical privileges. It does not actually
reject the poor, for whom the benefit system
was constituted ; but it prefers the “ better classes ”
The game is worked in this fashion. The local doctor or
doctors of some country town are approached and terror-
ised into consenting to act for the proposed lodge—pos-
sibly by covert threats that another medical man will be
imported. A house-to-house canvass is nodf made over
the district—the advantages of cheap medical attendance
being the main adjunct used. When the requisite num-
ber of members has been secured, a heavily-gilt general
secretary and president are imported to open the branch
Then—and not before—the list is presented to the doctor
who, finding that most of his well-off private patients
have become club-members, realises at last the true in-
wardness of the glorious A.N.A. The poor people
whom he would gladly attend at club - rates (and
whom he so often attends gratis) are not worried
by the canvasser. They will, many of them, come
in of their own accord, and at any rate they aren’t
of much importance to the Association. As a re-
sult of this system, there are now’ few country towns
in Victoria where one does not find the lawyer the bank
managers, the publicans, and the other well to-do
residents in receipt of cheap medical attendance—if thev
are lucky enough to be eligible for the A.N.A. J
* * * *
Naturally, the medical profession has kicked And
now some A.N.A. members arise to state that neither


they nor their wives nor their children, nor the stranger
within their gates (who is probably an honorary member)
• have ever troubled the doctor during a membership of
any number of years. Set these off against the person
with eight children, and a wife who believes in getting
the value of the old man’s money. Or the A.N.A. will
state, perhaps, that doctors are glad enough to take
lodges. Very likely ; the proverbial half-loaf ; but they
always give them up at the first possible opportunity. Or
the A.N.A. holds that lodges are useful to a young
medico that he may learn his work. It is a charming
light in which to show one’s self the Australian
“patriot” offering his wife and children as subjects for
experiment to a man in whom he admits he has no con-
fidence ! Or, the A.N.A. will argue that lodges bring
popularity and private practice—a poor argument when
the very constitution of the lodge makes possible private
patients able to get for a few shillings the attendance that
would otherwise.cost them a few pounds. All these pleas
fail before the hard thirteen-and-sixpenny fact.
* * * *
The absolute lack of unity, the petty professional
jealousies, and the utter want of esprit de corps amongst
the majority of general practitioners have been largely re-
sponsible for the ease with which the A.N.S. A. —the Aus-
tralian Natives’Sweating Association —lias been enabled
to prey upon them. The public doesn’t care ; it has a,
vague idea that the doctor makes a lot too much out of it
already, and it prefers to join a lodge in order to save its
money for the Cup and the national thirst. As a class,
medical men are absolutely blind to those of their own
interests which do not immediately affect the present.
Only some sharp penalty such as the N.S.W. Medical
Association threatens —professional and social ostracism,
or, in flagrant cases, removal from the Medical Register—
will avail with the more needy and less scrupulous mem-
bers of the profession. Pressure is being brought to bear
on the British General Medical Council, and before long
the battle will be in full swing. It will be a bitter fight,
for the A.N.S. A. influence in Victoria is almost as great as
Tammasy’s in New York; and the doctors fight with a
rope around their necks.
■ * * •
And the solution ? The solution is to make lodges in
general and the A.N.S. A. in particular debar from medical
benefits all persons with an income of more than £2OO
yearly. Then the spectacle of a mine-owner with an
annual income of £3OOO exacting attendance from an
over-worked lodge-doctor (for himself and a large family)
in return for a yearly sum that would not keep the
medico’s boots mended, will be seen no longer. In the
meantine, any Australian who believes that the name of
his country is not a thing to be degraded by being used as
a means of killing the life and spirit of a hard-worked
professional class—may be relied upon to give the
A.N.S.A. canvasser a piece of an honest man’s mind.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Queensland’s Boodle Railways.
Queensland Premier Philp, and the press organs
which uphold his end of the Boodle cause, barrack
with weary persistence for the half-dozen syndi-
cate railways which are now being log-rolled in
the North, those beautiful railways which are to
be allowed to charge 50 per cent, higher rates than
the State charges —a rate that is- just the same
burden on the people as if the State borrowed the
money at 81 per cent. They say it is necessary to
go into the ’BJ per cent, private swindle because
the State can’t borrow the money (the State has
just borrowed a lot of money at about £3 125.,
and could probably get millions at 4 per cent.).
Apart from the borrowing question, will Queens-
land have a look at this proposition? It is
a very simple one, and easy of comprehen-
sion. The province is rather poor just now
and wants wealth—assets—valuable property
of any kind—to make things better. _ Sup-
pose the Philp Government raised £500,000
a year by extra taxation and waded in at
railway construction with the money, making the •
rails and rolling stock locally, and utilising the
local labor. In six years it would have added
£3,000,000 worth of railways to the State’s assets.
It would have paid £3,000,000 in wages locally,
which would have given a tremendous lift to the
industrial activity of Queensland and saved much
charitable expenditure. Queensland would still
have the original £500,000 cash ; it would have
changed hands frequently, but the money would
not have left the country; the community would
have every penny of it, and it would be as avail-
able for private enterprise after passing through
the Government’s hands six times in six successive
years as it was before. The difference would be
'that, whereas at the beginning of the six years,
Queensland had £500,000 in cash, at the end of
that period the province would have at least
£3,500,000 (£500,000 cash and £3,000,000 worth of
railways); to say nothing of a possible £1,000,000
or so in increased land values created by the rail-
ways ; and it would have helped its people by pay-
ing £3,000,000 in wages &c. It would have done all
this out the original £500,000. It would also have
acquired a big permanent revenue from the
earnings of these railways with no corres-
ponding outlay for interest; and it would have
furnished much permanent employment by open-
ing up the country. The fact that Queensland is
poor is just the reason why it should levy more
taxation, and apply it in this fashion in order to
make itself rich. Twenty years of this policy
would enrich Queensland with £10,000,000 worth
of new assets (all made out of £500,000), and the
poorer Queensland is the more it wants these assets.
And if, instead, Queensland floated £10,000,000
in 3J per cent. English loans with a 40 years’
currency it would commit itself to pay £14,000,000
in interest for its £10,000,000 of assets, and
instead of being ten millions richer it would, even
if it paid off the loans at the end of 40 years, be
four millions poorer — i.e., it would have paid
away the whole value of the new railways and
four millions more in interest. The ill-luck of
Australia is that it is full of thick-headed Trea-
surers who can’t see a small thing like this.
♦
How the Landowner kept Faith.
Vert grievous is the pathos of the Melbourne
papers when the landowning class is called upon
to keep faith with the public, and for once to
honorably fulfill its engagements. In Victoria,
prior to 1861, it was the custom to issue land-
grants with a clause specifying that, if the State
at any future time wanted any of the land in-
cluded in the grant, for the making of roads, rail-
ways or canals, the required ground must be sur-
rendered by the grantee without compensation.
Of course, the buyer got his land more cheaply
on account of this drawback ; no one would give so
much for property any part of which might be
resumed without compensation, as he would for
fie same property without that disadvantage.
The community paid for the privilege of gratis
resumption for railway purposes by letting its pro-
perty go at a lower price. But up till now the con-
ditions of these old deeds have never been enforced.
The landowning class whose titles dated back before
Ml cheerfully diddled the community by making
it pay for all land wanted for railway purposes.
So far as these grants were concerned the land re-
sumed was the nation’s property already, but the
owners had no compunction about defrauding
their fellow-countrymen, and making them pay
for their own property. They didn’t even
mind making them pay 10 times the value.
But the other day there was trouble in a small
way. The proposed Warburton railway involves
the resumption of land valued by the railway
officials at £7200, and the local inhabitants formed
a Trust and put up the money. Then the un-
speakable aggregate property-owner demanded
£ 50,000 . This utterly conscienceless grab
moved the Trust to remind the owners that
their lands were held under the old variety of
grant ; that by the terms of the agreement the
land required for railway purposes was the people’s
already, and that they had no legal claim to Id.
of compensation. Then the Age and the Akgus
both rose to denounce the people who asked the
landowning class to keep to the terms of its bond
as thieves and swindlers. This is the Age
(11/9/ 00):
By taking advantage of a trifling legal quibble, the
Board of Land and Works, in its railway jurisdiction, has
sought to acquire lands for the purposes of the Warburton
railway without granting the owners the slightest com-
pensation, and has accordingly blundered into an iniqui-
tous violation of public policy. . . . Although some 3000
miles of railways have been built by the State, this is the
first time that such an un-British procedure as forcibly
wresting private property from the hands of its owners
without compensation has been followed.
Nothing is said, be it- observed, about the fact
that nobody proposes to wrest private property
from its owners. Whatever land is required for
railway-building purposes is the State’s property
by the terms of the deed, and it is simply proposed
that the State should refuse to be swindled out
of its rights. The “un-British procedure” consists
in requesting these landholders to stick to their bar-
gain. The Warburton Trust was certainly moder-
ate enough in the matter. It was willing to pay
these owners fair value for the ground which they
were legally pledged to surrender gratis, and it was
only when it found itself confronted by an
outrageous attempt at extortion that it endea-
vored to hold them to the letter of their bargain.
Meanwhile, the M'Shiels Government has risen
to condemn the Trust for trying to enforce the
law, and to support the un-English crowd which
is repudiating the agreement it made with the
State. Should it be decided at this late
hour that the old system is unworkable, then
the upright course is to legally abolish the
gratis-resumption clause in the old grants, and
make the holders of these grants pay fair com-
pensation for the improvement thus effected in
their titles. The removal of a condition under
which an indefinite amount of land may be re-
sumed without compensation is an immense
addition to the value of a property, and the con-
dition itself is a most valuable right belonging to
the community at large. A Government which
hands over valuable popular rights to a small class
without making that class pay fair value for them
is a plain, ordinary thief, taking Peter’s property
away that it may be generous to Paul. The fact
that the Melbourne dailies are shocked at the idea
of the State demanding its rights doesn’t neces-
sarily amount to much. All three daily paper
proprietaries are landholders in the affected dis-
trict, and, presumably, their own land titles con-
tain the reservation which they denounce so
sorrowfully.
♦
Quack Doctors.
A Medical Bill, at present drifting around in the
tangled wilderness of Queensland Parliament, pro-
poses to shut down like a box-lid on the unquali-
fied practitioner, and wipe him out altogether. It
isn’t suggested that he should merely be pro-
hibited from calling himself a doctor, but that he
should be prohibited from existing at all, and
utterly blotted out. There is much to be said for
the proposition. The qualified practitioner is
sometimes an incapable fool, but the very worst
of him must know a good deal about his trade, or
he couldn’t have passed his examinations. The
unqualified man may sometimes know a good deal,
but, as a rule, the best of him remains unqualified
because he doesn’t know enough to be even the
worst kind of a qualified man. All the same, the
unqualified man is sometimes better than no-
body at all —though very often he is worse
than nobody, and kills his patients faster than
they would have died if let alone. But, on
the strength of the fact that he is some-
times better than nobody, a section of the press
denounces the Medical Bill in the alleged interests
of very far back residents, and asks if it is humane,
in places where there is no doctor, to prevent the
bush quack doing his best, or to prohibit the
chemist, who probably knows a little of medicine,
from prescribing. This looks plausible on the sur-
face, but there isn’t much underneath it. A place
that can support a chemist generally has a doctor ;
also there is no reason why a new order of com-
Dined doctor and chemist should not exist. As
for the quack who isn’t a chemist, he eats and
drinks as much and wears as many boots as the
qualified man, so a place which can’t support a
doctor can’t support a quack either. Where there
is a quack and no qualified doctor the reason is
generally that the place can’t support both of
them, and the quack got there first; if he was
shifted a qualified man would take his place. As
for the very poor and unpopulous places where
there is neither doctor nor quack nor chemist,
and a little precarious botching) at the human
frame is done by the storekeeper or blacksmith,
they are merely a proof that the State has failed
in its duty. Even in the poorest and emptiest
regions the State sees that appliances for arrest-
ing, imprisoning, and hanging the public are not
wanting. It is equally essential to see that appli-
ances for curing them are not wanting. In every
settled district the State should see that a doctor
is supplied, and where the population is below a
certain figure—the figure which careful inquiry
shows to be the minimum that can support a
medical man—a sober, capable medico should be
supplied and subsidised in proportion to the
deficiency in population. It is as essential to
have a doctor to so many square miles, in order
that no single inhabitant shall be absolutely out
of reach of medical aid, as to have a policeman, so
that no inhabitant shall be wholly denied the
privilege of imprisonment. And it is quite as
cheap to preserve the existing population in this
way as to import new population under an assisted -
immigration policy—cheaper, perhaps, when the
saving in tombstones and grave-digging is con-
sidered.
♦— ■
A Specimen of Splendid Impudence.
Sundry Victorian boomsters have formed them-
selves into a syndicate to exploit Melbourne for
pretty well all it is worth. They call themselves
the Victoria Electric Light, Heat and Power
Distributing Corporation and propose to develop
certain deposits of brown coal at Altona Bay and
convert the heat thereof into electricity. With
this they propose to supply all Melbourne and
suburbs with heat, light and power for the
running of railways, trams, factories, lifts,
mangles, sewing machines and so forth. They
issued a gorgeous prospectus —got up regardless of
cost —setting forth in extravagant language the
beauties of their proposal; and then invited 11 of
the innermost municipal councils to consider the
same and to sign an agreement giving this awful
syndicate a monopoly—not only against other
competitors but against the councils themselves —
of the right to supply electric power in their
districts (existing concessions and rights being of
course conserved), for a term of 30 years, with the
option of renewal for another 30. In return for
this magnificent gift, worjjh several millions, these
modest individuals offer—absolutely nothing !
They had not even the grace to propose to supply,
say, a few town halls with light gratis, or even to
turn the mayor’s mangle for nothing. As a speci-
men of frozen effrontery the proposal is magnifi-
cent. So far, the sturdy electric light joint-
stock mendicant appears to have spent not
one penny of its own money, save on the
gaudy prospectus. It puts up no deposit,
nor lias it given any guarantee of possessing a
fraction of the required capital. The shindykit
numbers 13, and includes Pursey Chirnside,
architect Pitt, M.L.C., the perennial Butters,
Everard Browne, and other disinterested and
philanthropic individuals. The agreement laid
before the councils provides that Parliamentary
sanction must be obtained inside two years, and
that the works must bo completed within the two
subsequent years. Which is such a tremendous
contract as to arouse the suspicion that the “cor-
poration’s” sole object is to float its concessions in
London and then calmly stand from under,
leaving the customary debenture-people and
other second robbers and baby-holders to wail
piteously about the hardness of their lot and the
gross breach of faith on the part of Melbourne’s
municipalities ; also to demand that they shall be
bought out at their own figure. On its face it
looked such an impudent grab that democratic
Richmond and Collingwood councillors wanted to
throw it forthwith on the corporation tip, but
some of the nearer municipalities—Williamstown,
Eootscray, and N. Melb.—dallied with the pro-
posal. The result is that each of the eleven
Las now appointed a delegate to go into
the matter with the syndicate’s representative.
The incredibly foolish system of dividing a second-
rate city like Melbourne into about 20 munici-
palities under about 20 councils (Glasgow, with
twice the population, gets on quite well with one)
is largely the reason why awful dodges like this
are perpetually in the air. No one council can
put up gasworks to supply all Melbourne, and it
wouldn’t pay to put up 20 gasworks owned by as
many councils—so municipal lighting is practi-
cally impossible, and the private gas co., which
can cover any number of municipalities, gets the
job. No one council can fix up an electric light,
heat and power system to cover the whole Vic.
metropolis, and it would be difficult and costly to
fix up 20 of them, each council owning one; so the
suave and cat-like syndicate, which can cover the
whole ground if it can only work the necessary
oracle, gets a diance to come in. When will
some .strong Government make a beginning of
real municipal reform by calling on the people to
elect a convention for the drafting of a municipal
constitution for Greater Melbourne, and letting
the people accept or reject that constitution after-
wards by popular vote ? While Australia’s cities
are cut up in from 8 to 40 municipalities apiece no
great municipal work can be done for want of any
central authority to do it, and the ancient and
fish-like syndicate grabs the great municipal
undertakings—gas supply, electric supply, hy-
draulic power supply, trams, and the like —one
by one.
4
Municipal Music.
Mayor M'Eaoharn lias raised a musical question
by providing a course of six concerts “for the
masses” at Melbourne Town Hall, in the hope
that his experiment will “ ultimately lead to the
formation of a city band, and the giving of regular
indoor and outdoor performances throughout the
year, according to the seasons.” All six concerts
are run at the promoter’s expense, but at three of
them an entrance fee of 3d. and 6d. is charged for
the benefit of a local hospital. The other three are
open invitation entertainments and the attendance
of the masses has thus far been “most encouraging,”
as regards numbers. There is, however, no per-
ceptible difference between the rush for the
concert that is offered gratis, and the fight for
admission when front seats cost sixpence. Also
the average financial status of the mass appears to
be about the same in each case. Hence the
trouble. A recent meeting of men interested in
what may be called the development of the concert
trade came to the conclusion that Mayor
M'Eaoharn’s experiment is not calculated to
benefit the long-haired fraternity of music
makers. It is not creating any new taste
among people who don’t usually attend
popular concerts. The audiences at these
free, or threepenny, gatherings are the same old
general public who can always afford to pay their
way to any entertainment which takes their fancy.
The artists —the singers are the chief attraction —
get a reasonable fee, but the fact that they are
being heard on less than reasonable terms must
tend to weaken public demand for their warble
at ordinary concert rates of admission. Therefore
the cheap municipal show, under present con-
ditions, discourages private competition and
injures the cause of music, say many men who live
by supplying the article. Two ways of meeting
the objection will suggest themselves to the
moderately musical mind. If the Mayor’s con-
certs are intended for such as want them but can’t
afford to pay even the price of a Shilling Pop.,
they should be open to ticket-holders only, the
distribution of tickets being left to responsible
persons in touch with the hands of factories, work-
rooms, and other places where toil is heavy and
wages light. The free concert which employs
labour without diminishing the possibilities of
trade is a desirable thing, as far as it goes. The
free concert that encourages a moderately musical
taste among the multitude of well-to-do pbilis-
tines whose notion of the beautiful in melody is
bounded by “ Annie Laurie ” at one end, and
“Say Au Revoir ” at the other would be a much
better thing. Mayor Mac. did not think very
seriously over the matter before he gave his order
for six experimental concerts to the Town Clerk.
Otherwise he might have made up his mind to
subsidise the capital Saturday afternoon orchestra
which Benno Scherer conducted at the Town
Hall last winter, and again this winter until the
scheme died for want of nourishment. What the
musical profession needs is a wider public appre-
ciation of such high-class work as pedants affect
to despise for its melodiousness and barbarians
avoid on account of its respectability. And this
could easily be obtained by inviting the unedu-
cated to come and hear it gratis, for a few weeks,
or months. The M'Eacharn experiment is neither
a boon to the poorest citizens, nor an assistance to
the cause of music.
-4.
Brisbane Street declares that there has been a
great re-awakening in Queensland on the subject
of syndicate railways, and people now realise
that if MTlwraith’s land-grant syndicate policy
had been adopted “ Queensland would be further
advanced in material prosperity than she is to-
day.” Let’s see. MTu wraith proposed that
1200 or 1500 acres should be granted for every mile
of line built; where the land beside the railway
was inferior the swindle-cat to have the privilege
of selecting elsewhere instead, land with a front-
age to navigable rivers included if the promoters
preferred it; half of all the townships established
within 15 miles of the railway to belong to the
railway co. ; the State to pay half the survey fees
of the co.’s townships; all the land at the railway
terminus to belong to the co. ; three islands to be
thrown in as a present to the co. ; the Govern-
ment to sell no land near the railway line for
10 years, so as to create an artificial scarcity
and force up the value of the co.’s grant ; the
co.’s land to pay no local taxation ; all materials
used in railway construction to come in
free of duty; the State to pay half the cost of
importing laborers (nigger, Cnow or otherwise,
presumably) to build the lines; the State to pay
half the cost of bringing in the laborers’ families ;
and finally the Government to buy the line when
completed at 25 per cent, above its cost, i.e., the
State, after giving the land and all these privi-
leges, to pay £1,250,000 for a line which cost the
swindle-cat only £1,000,000 and which the State
itself could probably have built for £750,000.
Also it was demanded that as each 50-mile section
was finished the State should take it over and
work it, handing surplus earnings to the co. And
there are said to be people in Queensland with
memories so short that they grieve because this
incredible fraud fell through.
The Lyne Government’s Municipalities Amend
ment Bill is, The Bulletin is pleased to note, a
larger, better, and more statesmanlike patch than
usual on the scant garment of N.S.W. municipal
government. It is only a patch, but it is a reallv
good and useful one—by far the best that the
State has seen for a very long time. It gives
increased powers for the creation of new munici-
palities. It greatly enlarges the rating powers;
at present the highest rate which a council can
legally charge is insufficient, in most cases, to
keep the municipality solvent. Under its
provisions a council may levy rates as at
present, or it may base them, if it prefers,
on unimproved land values. Also, it may ac-
quire or establish gasworks, electric lighting plant,
markets, cattle saleyards, &c. Most important of
all, the Bill gives power to compulsorily resume
land for the purpose of widening and enlarging
streets, and for other improvements. It creates a
system of State audit of municipal accounts, and
it gives the State power to guarantee the loans of
solvent municipalities, which will enable them to
borrow at a much cheaper rate than before. Also
it contains a number of minor improvements and
amendments. As already mentioned, it is only a
patch, but if the measure can be carried in its en-
tirety it will be a very large and healthy improve-
ment on the existing order, or disorder, of things.
The official estimate that there are 3000 unem-
ployed men in and immediately around Sydney
aroused the local Telegraph to explain last week,
in a feverish leading article, that Freetrade bad
nothing at all to do with it
The more efficient the relief work system the more
powerfully it will act in attracting men from abroad to
participate in its benefits. Thus, while we diminish the
number of local unemployed, their places are immediately
taken by others, just as water finds its level.
This is pathetic. In the last 12 months N.S.W.-
only gained 2250 people by excess of immigration,
so that can’t account for the 3000 adult male unem-
ployed in Sydney alone. The unemployed in
N.S.W. would account for all the adult male
immigration for the last three or four years. The
Telegraph has always claimed hitherto that this
immigration arose through the beneficent effects
of Freetrade. It now shows, or tries to show,
that it was all owing to relief works done with
borrowed money, and that it wasn’t Freetrade
that attracted population. And thereby it finds
itself on top of a high fence with a dog waiting for
it on each side as it comes down. It isn’t nice to
say that Freetrade attracted the people who came
to N.S.W. in the last three years, and then proved
a delusion and left them all to starve on arrival.
And it can’t well say that Freetrade alone would
have sent people out of N.S.W., and that they
were only attracted by the doling out of loan
■ money in pauper relief. So it says both things in
an ineffective sort of way.
The grossly offensive charges against Protes-
tantism, supposed to have been made by R.C.
Archbishop Redwood in his recent Sydney St.
Mary’s Cathedral dedication-sermon, were not, it
now turns out, actually voiced on that occasion,
though they figured in the MS. of the address as
printed by S.M. Herald and the two local
Catholic organs. But The Bulletin, while giving
this injudicious prelate whatever credit is due for
the common decency of not insulting to their
faces the Church’s invited guests—including the
Governor of the State-—doesn’t see that the
case is made much better by the fact that
through the press Dr. Redwood has thus
still more widely promulgated his accusations.
Printed or spoken, his observations amounted
to a gross insult to all those liberal-
minded Protestants who, while regarding with
disgust the scurrilous attacks of vulgar Protestant
bigots upon Romanism, have the right to expect
from a man in Dr. Redwood’s position—if not the
condescension of an apologist—at least the courtesy
of a gentleman. But the small degree in which a
man’s official utterances may represent his real
self is curiously exemplified in the fact that Dr.
Redwood is no stern, hard, sour fanatic, but a
most genial and lovable man, belonging to a typi-
cally English sporting family, also represented in
Maoriland by his jovial, ruddy-faced brother,
“ Harry ” —the Father of the local Turf. And un-
fortunately it is not to the aforesaid rabid levellers
of vile charges at the R.C. Church that Dr.
Redwood’s unhappy observations will give most
pain. The insult will come hardest home to those
Protestants who, while readily recognising the
R.C. Church’s loftiness of ideal and sincerity of
purpose, may reasonably claim reciprocal con-
sideration for themselves.
Sydney Telegraph strikes a very solid truth :
The Miners’ Accident Relief Bill, which passed its third
reading in the N.S.W. Assembly last night, is one of those
legislative efforts that go either too far or not nearly far
enough. What is proposed is a system of State-aided
accident assurance for miners, or, rather, for a section of
the men employed in mining, which, according to the
best authorities, will not include more than one-half of
the total number. In any mine employing not less than
twenty men, provision is made for the establishment of a
fund based on contributions from the workers, the
employers, and the State; the men contributing
half and each of the others a quarter each. Two pounds
a year per man are to be raised in this way, which sum is
calculated to yield 425. 6d. a week to men while incapaci-
tated by-accidenc, Bs. a week to the widows of men who
are killed, and 2s. 6d. ■ for each child up to the age of 14.
The totai cost of this scheme to the State is estimated at
£20,000 per annum. That is the amount which it will
cost the taxpayer to provide a svstem of accident assur-
ance for about half the working miners of N.S.W.
Thus the miner who works in pits employing less
than 20 men gets no accident assurance, and as a
taxpayer he has to help pay for the man who
works in mines where there are 20 or more em-
ployes. Nothing but a compulsory State Acci-
dent Insurance scheme for all workers will fill the
bill. It is difficult to apply the principle of the
Accident Relief Bill to tlie precarious little mines
which employ three or four men, and are constantly
opening and shutting. Yet the man in a small
mine is quite as liable to accidents as the one in a


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
•
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D ARCY-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
Gr. G-. McCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managers for Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C- CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
THE
Sulphide Corporation
** LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, y Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought
. . . ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted, for Targe Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A. E. SAVAGE, GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Manager. Agents for Australia.
NOTICE
THERE have been several Melbourne enquiries
for framed copies of Alf. Vincent’s double-
page picture, “On the Melbourne Block, 1899,”
published in The: Bulletin of Dec. 16th last.
The etching, specially printed on 4-sheet card-
board and suitably mounted and framed, can now
be ordered from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch
(Melb.) and The Bulletin Office, Sydney. Each
etching bears the artist’s signature, and the price
is Half-a-Guinea, to cover the cost of framing
“A representative number of colonial
officers and men will visit England as the guests
of the State with the earliest batch of men of the
returning army. Her Majesty the Queen has
intimated that she hopes to inspect the contin-
gents and present them with regimental colors
commemorative of the distinguished part which
they have borne in the South African campaign.”
Chamberlain is indeed playing the game for all it
is worth.
HEUDON SPA WATER
NATURAL
MINERAL WAT E R
W
m
big mine, and when he is lying in bed with a
broken leg, and getting no relief, and being taxed
all the time for the protection of his fellow-miner
in the big pit—well, where does he come in !
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Gondoliers.”
Royal “New Babylon.”
Palace “ What Happened to Jones ” and
“ An Empty Stocking.”
Criterion . “ Dri nk. ”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Centenary Hall “Banjo” Paterson’s War Lec-
tures.
Rbdfbrn Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
Queen’s Hall Museum of Anatomy.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Christian.”
Theatre Royal John F. Sheridan and Co.
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Unless Time has laid corroding fingers on
J. C. Williamson’s arrangements, and the muta-
bility of things in general has struck that gentle-
man where he least expected it, and knocked him
out, “ lolanthe” will be a thing of the past before
this number is placed in the none-too-clean hand
of a discriminating public. At time of writing
“Pinafore” was announced to heave on the face
of the uneasy deep for four performances only—
two on Wednesday and one each on Thursday and
Friday. Thereafter the opera of the two kings
who did their own washing-up is expected to fill
in a week, and on Saturday, 29th September,
Miss Nance O’Neil re-appears at Her Majesty’s
(the Sydney one) in “ Ingomar.” This play only
erupts very occasionally; the writer’s last
recollections of it concern Billolloway as the
hairy barbarian with the long sword and
the big knees and feet, and the ever-
green tree on his head, and Essie Jenyns as
Parthenia with the sandalled feet and
the long night-dress, and her ancient Greek hair
a-hanging down her back. Ingomar ought to
tower above Parthenia to some extent—there
would be no merit in her scorn of his threats if she
could knock him backwards into the middle of
Gaul with one hand ; and there are few men who
can tower above Nance O’Neil to any great ex-
tent, unless they stand on a hat-box, and
there were no hat-boxes in Gaul at that
time; so a certain amount of interest attaches to
the new production. Meanwhile “Gondoliers”
is still with us, and “Gondoliers” is a really
beautiful opera, of which it is impossible to grow
weary. Also the luckless outburst of the holy
father who preached on that recent memorable
occasion at St. Mary’s ought to
be a good advt. for Gilbert’s
opera, seeing that the whole plot
turns on the stealing of the only
son of a Primitive Methodist
king by a Catholic persecutor,
and the mixing-up of that son
by a Catholic gondolier. A Pro-
testant would have kept his
head clear enough to prevent
the son getting mixed. The
Bulletin proposes that on the
first night of the “Gondoliers”
all good Protestants roll up, and
cheer when the Primitive Me-
thodist king is mentioned, and
put down the Grand Inquisitor
with a strong, able-bodied hiss.
There are now two thea-
tres each named “Her Majes-
ty’s”—one in Sydney and one in
Melb. The name is awkward,
and as difficult to pronounce
under certain circumstances as
“ truly rural.” Also, Her
Majesty’s, the Royal, the Prin-
cess, the Royal Standard, and,
on top of all, the Queen’s Hall,
where the bones are, are all dull
and stupid variants of one dull
and barren idea. Therefore,
The Bulletin puts it to Wil-
liamson that the man who gets
there first, and calls his theatre
the Commonwealth, has a great
chance and a great advertise-
ment before him. J. Cassius W.
threw away the chance once
when he was rechristemng the
Melb. Aleck, and made the
grievous mistake of plastering
on its front the old, worn-out
chestnut of H.M. If he throws
it away again some dusty little
hencoop, where lost barn-stor-
mers come semi-occasionally and
play “East Lynne” by kero-
sene glimmer, will jump the
name, and J. C. Williamson will
be left lamenting.
** * *
The various Happenings
of J ones are progressing at
Sydney Palace in view of as large audiences
as that pretty little house can hold. The
exact reason of the hold which this frivolous
person has got on the public is difficult to define,
but the hold itself is beyond all question. Prob-
ably the all-round excellence of the Arnold co. is
mostly responsible. There are twenty places
where one serious and painstaking actor or actress
could so effectually show the emptiness of Jones
that the house would contain nothing next week
but 3s. 6d. and a hollow echo, but the Arnold
combination dances lightly over all these weak
spots and nothing breaks. In fact, no one can
see that there are weak spots unless he goes home
sober on a wet night, and thinks the story out in
cold-blood by candle-light front of an empty
grate, while a soaked dog is lamenting on the
verandah.
*# * #
The days of Bland Holt’s latest Tank
drama at Sydney Royal are going to be few in the
land, unlike the circumstance mentioned in the
fifth commandment, and the great _ spectacular
drama of “New Babylon” is due on Saturday.
The Bulletin’s representative confesses to abso-
lute forgetfulness as to what “New Babylon” is
about, but he believes he heard somewhere that it
is great and gorgeous. After seeing new dramas
constantly for 14 years they begin to get mixed in
his head, and, beyond a general conviction that
the Lost Document or the will must ultimately be
found in the kitchen sink or on the roof, and that
the hero will be honorably acquitted in the middle
of the road by a policeman, acting on "his own
authority, he knows less about them than when he
started.
** * *
“ Banjo ” Paterson, the Man from Orange
River, is to give the first of a series of war lectures
at Sydney Centenary Hall to-morrow (Friday)
night, under the management of the world-wide
Smythe. The “Banjo” should have a much
better tale to tell than even the successful Donald
Macdonald, for he saw the campaign practically
all through, while Macdonald came away early.
Also he viewed it in the open, and went from one
battlefield to another, while Macdonald was
cooped up in Ladysmith, and saw little except a
rifle-barrel looking out of Joubert’s entrenchments
and the bit of horse-meat that was served out for
dinner. Paterson was the only Australian war-
correspondent, and one of the very few war-corres-
Eondents of any country, who may be said to
ave made a careful inspection of the whole
Anglo-Boer coolness, and he should be by 1000
miles the best Boer war authority in Australia—
also the most interesting.
* * He *
“Drink” still keeps above ground at
Sydney Criterion, and if a little more vigour was
displayed it would probably keep above ground
longer than it is otherwise likely to do. An
impression is growing on the public that the two
ladies throw less water at each other every night,
and the fight wherein Miss Dampier batters Miss
Watts-Phillips lacked energy from the first. If
the parts were reversed, and Miss Watts-Phillips
spanked Miss Dampier—who is a robust lady and
could stand without injury all the realistic spank-
ing that little Miss Phillips could inflict —the
effect might be better. And if the ladies went for
each other with a full bucket each, and aimed
high, regardless of their front hair, instead of
“ BANJO ” PATERSON, who starts lecturing on the
S’ African war at Centenary Hall, Sydney, on Friday,
September 21.
Photo, by Johnstone, O’Shannessy & Co., Melb.
firing at each other’s skirts, the scene would be
vastly more impressive. Writer, being only a
man, doesn’t know much about these things, but
he presumes there is nothing to prevent the com-
batants having some spare hair in their dressing-
rooms to put on for the next act.
** * *
The show with the bones and the unusual
diseases in it continues on the enlightening tenor
of its way at the Queen’s Hall, Sydney. Also,
apropos of bones, it is announced that one Cheok
Hong Cheong will stir up the dry skeleton of con-
troversy by lecturing at Sydney Town Hall to-
morrow (Friday) on the Valley of the Yang-tse.
ARCHBISHOP REDWOOD, of Wellington
(M.L.), who has got into trouble by not
using a blue pencil.
Present writer intends to cultivate a crowded
absence, unless the lecture is enlivened with songs
by Sun Johnson, which might induce him to
change his mind. To hear a man he doesn’t know
lecturing re a hollow place a long way off is not
his idea of revelry.
** * *
Fitzgeralds’ Circus, which was only glanced
at last week, is too large an affair to be fully con-
sidered at one visit. It is difficult to say which
item gets the best hold on the public, but a good
many votes would be cast for Rosie Aquinaldo,
the lady who stands on her teeth and sits on her
own head in a picturesquely creepy manner.
Rosie is said to be a Cuban, though she doesn’t
look like it, but there is no doubt of the fact that
she is one of the most wonderful contortionists
ever seen in this infected continent. It is hardly
fair to compare her with Ferry the Frog, the per-
formances being so utterly dissimilar, and each
seems to be about perfect in her and his own par-
ticular curl and twist. The waltz by the seven
white horses is a thing that stirs the Australian
soul to its profoundest depths. Rosie Aquinaldo
supplies the creeps, Guillaume the fun, and the
Dunbar trio the thrills of the show. Two of the
Dunbars fly through the air and are caught by the
third while hanging and swinging by his heels.
He swings them back to their respective trapezes,
and when the first thrills are over one realises
what nice judgment those three people must have.
Half a second too soon or too late and they would
pass just out of reach, for the catcher is swinging
and the catchee is shooting. Altogether, Fitz’s
Circus is a most diversified show.
## * *
There is little in the way of novelty at
Rickards’ since last week. The Clarence Sisters
give a skipping-rope dance, one Clarence Sister
fetting temporarily entangled ; while the Human
'rog—who is alleged to do without food for ten
hours before performing, and looks as if he ab-
stained the whole twenty-four—casts a large and
ourang-outang-like shadow on the landscape
behind the marsh, so that the audience really gets
two performances for its money. Miss Nit a
Clarke-Leete has a song on someone or something
which is as true as the lily, the veracity of that
flower being evidently above the common. Baby
Parkes has been reduced to one song of late, and
when one wonders why she has not made a very
great success one also wonders whether it is be-
cause she is just rather too much the grown-up
woman in miniature. The encore nuisance has
greatly abated in the Theatre of the Unholy
Curtain. You can now breathe a little more
heavily than usual in the back row without the
song-and-dance man taking it for a great and
spontaneous approbation, and starting all over
again.
** * *
The Holy Brotherhood of the Gethsemane,
whose ’taters could have done with a drop more
rain, continue to mortify the flesh in an intermit-
tent snowstorm at Her Majesty’s (Melb.). Also
the naughty girl visitors to the Corinthian Club
will be sorry all next week that the big, bony man
in the long, black coat didn’t choke Lord Bob,
and Eloise Juno will intimidate the populace with
her ’brella for another six nights. Melbourne
means to make the best of “ The Christian.” It
is an unconvincing, snuflle-bustious show in its
main incidents. The slow music and the red fire
that lightens the cuddle of the erring apostle are
meretricious business effects, but it is a full-sized
entertainment, and the competition down town is
not too keen.
* * • •
Probably a stronger Storm and Glory
would improve the appearance of “The Chris-
tian ” as a play. The small parts are worked for
all they are worth, and the characters in the
second row of interest get fair treatment. Cecil
Ward, as the moderately moral Drake, is accept-
able. Anyhow, Drake earns some applause from
a virtuous pit by deciding to miss his chance with
the red-haired lady when she tells him to go. He
goes, and then apostle John reigns in his stead,
which proves that it is better to be madly jealous
than mildly moral. Harry Hill’s sketch of Lord
Bob is the brightest thing he has achieved thus
far; George Majeroni gives them a lean and
righteous-looking Brother Paul, with no family
likeness to sister Polly ; and W. F. Grant is a nice
clean old Father of the Monkery. Will Whit-
burn would be a more amusing Father, because he
would treat the Gethsemaneans to a song, and tell
funny stories to the orchestra conductor, but
Grant is a success all the same.
** * *
Tyrone Power’s recovery from influenza
makes very little difference to his John Storm.
He looks the character, except for his theatrical
blacking about the eyes, but he gives it no sort of
attractiveness. The large, wet, creaky voice which
suited Svengali is not an advantage in this case.
His pains and passions are lacking in variety and
detail. Once or twice he grows impressive—as a
rule he is respectably dull. Miss Crane, who can’t
very well be monotonous, seeing that she wears four
different dresses during the evening and changes
her mind about 10 times, is otherwise a greater
disappointment than Mr. Power. Her voice, like
his, was well placed in the previous play, for
its strange hollowness and tendency to emphasise
the wrong word seemed natural to Trilby. Trilby
was understood to be stone-deaf. Glory Quayle is
an alleged nightingale, yet she talks out of tune.
Miss Crane’s conception of the character is not
heroic ; she bustles the emotional lines when they
ought to go slow, and her method of playing the
arch coquette is pretty much the method of
Minnie Palmer and Katie Putnam, actresses
whose artificial pertness had no charm for Aus-
tralians in general. But the face and figure of
Miss Crane make up for a lot of shortcomings,
and the effect of the red light on her lingering
kiss is All Right.
** * *
Money—hard, grimy money—was turned
away from Melbourne Royal on Saturday, owing
to the return of the chirpy little man in petticoats.
“A Trip to Chicago,” which presents John F.
Sheridan as the same old Widow under a new
name, was first staged at the Royal in a slightly
different shape. Sheridan those times was
Bridget O’Brien, Esq., if the present scribe
remembers rightly, whereas now he is Johanna
Murphy. Or perhaps he was Bridget, Esq., in
another of his Widow shows and was always Mrs.
Murphy when he got to Chicago. Anyhow, the
Widow Sheridan, who travels with a footman
and a cork-legged major in tow, and strikes terror
into her daughter’s husband, and tramples on the
family pride of that young man’s mamma from
Boston, is a memory of the past, revised and
brought up to date. If he (Sheridan) seems a
shade or two wittier and more genial than she
(the Widow) ever was before, it is because he
grows upon one’s taste, or she has added new
tricks of humor to her personality. “A Trip to
Chicago” has nothing but Sheridan to save it
from scorn. The moss of many years lies thick
upon its thoughts. There are yards of dialogue
unredeemed by a joke to be spoken in the places
where Bridget doesn’t appear. The variety busi-
ness, which starts after 10 o’clock, is not .up to
the best traditions of “Fun on the Bristol.”
Take Widow Murphy, nee O’Brien, from the sum
total, and the balance would amount to nothing
worth mentioning.
«* * m
At the Bijou an artistic first-part scene,
with a view of Paris in the background, is helping
things along, and the very small child, who is said
to be a boy rather than a toy, dances a rather
astounding hornpipe amidst the new splendor.
Harry Shine patters as before, likewise Whitburn.
Also Tod Callaway tods and the Rangers range,
and the Biograph and the Pattersons are doing
their best, and the people who made their first
appearance last Monday were too late for a men-
tion in this issue. In a business way of speaking,
the Rickards management is keeping its Mel-
bourne end up—not too much up, but up enough.
** * *
Rickards is still doing well at Adelaide
Tivoli. For the first weeks Amann carried the
whole thing through with a bang. Afterwards it
became a case of a man singing and dancing, and
then a girl singing and dancing, after which one
of each, or several of one, contribute a dance and
song. -The fact that one of them was named Irene
Franklin has made some difference latterly, but
the coming of the Martinettis was looked forward
to to make things really move again.


'Ware
Imitators ...
WE have obtained injunctions against,
also apologies from, manufacturers
who imitated ZETZ SPA WATER and
now ask the public to beware of counterfeits,
and see that they get ZETZ.
ZETZ is none of your imported concoc-
tions, but a pure and unsophisticated Natural
Water. We are ONLY BOTTLERS of
ZETZ SPA which comes straight from our
Natural Springs at Baltimore, near Dubbo,
N.S.W., AND ARE NOT Aerated or Spa
Water Manufacturers.
Zetz Spa Proprietary
tfebaceea
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAYY AND WAR OFFICE.
(NT
“ THE FINEST • -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros, & Co,, Ltd., Liverpool, Agents; M, Butty & Co., Sydney, 1
The Austral Otis Engineering Co. have just
completed a concentrating test on the Wilfley Table in-
stalled at their South Melbourne works of a parcel of
crushed ore representing the second product from the
concentrating Mill at the Conrad Mine, owned by Mr. J.
Howell, which hitherto has all been stacked on the mine
waiting the advent of a machine that would profitably
treat it without re-crushing. The result of the Wilfley
test is a high-grade concentrate, and tailing waste show-
ing very little values, and the Otis Co. have despatched
the tables for erection on the mine.*
* * * «
The Uralla Gold Dredging Co., which has some
three miles of the Rocky River near Uralla, is to com-
mence operations with two double engine direct driven
dredging pumps of new design manufactured by the
Morris Machine Works of New York. The agents for
Australia are Parke and Lacy Co., Ltd.
* * * *
Insurance Press, July Ist, 1899:, “The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society has had another
season of prosperity and has increased its business and
bettered its financial condition to a considerable extent.*
* * * *
Associateds have been up to 80s. in London and
83s. in Adelaide, representing a value of considerably
over two millions. Then they fell back to 765. Likely
that at least another 100,000 shares have been oversold at
between 70s. and 80s. The present price is unwarranted
by any development, or prospect of one, but there is no
chance of the Associated shares coming down to their real
value while the mine is only a counter in a high gambling
game. It was so with Bayley’s five years ago. The truth
comes home at last, and so sure as the Associated mine
fails to find other div.-paying ore-bodies, its shares must
fall to a fraction of their present price. Northern Asso-
ciateds have been up to 61s. 6d. —a rise of 15s. in a fort-
night—-and are back to 58s. This, too, is unwarranted.
The developments during the last month have not been
so good as they were before ; the ore has gone very fiat
in the winze, which is regarded as a bad sign. But, as in
many other instances, the market seems to have nothing
to do with the mine.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38°/.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 81
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney ; 68 Currie-st Adel. ; V Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NZ. ;
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent
pure), Blasting Powder, Caustic Soda, Mining
Requisites, Candles, etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Minister Drake has a Life Assurance Bill before
Queensland Parliament, whereby he proposes to safe-
guard the policy-holder by making life assurance institu-
tions which do business in Queensland deposit £IO,OOO
with the Treasury. This is the only kind of protection
which the law of any Australasian State offers to policy-
holders, and it is no protection at all. If size was the one
criterion, and an office with more than £IO,OOO was
necessarily solvent, and an office with less than £IO,OOO
was necessarily insolvent, the idea would be good enough.
But an office may have £BOO,OOO and be hopelessly rotten
because its liabilities are £2,000,000, while another may
have £BOOO and have liabilities of only £7OOO, and therefore
be about the most safe and prosperous office in Australasia.
Of course the £IO,OOO is a guarantee that, if a smash
comes, the policy-holders will get something ; it is suffi-
cient, for instance, to guarantee the A.M.P.’s Queensland
policy-holders almost a halfpenny in the £—which is very
comforting indeed. The deposit system really answers
only one purpose. It encourages the establishment of
proprietary life offices (which exist, not so much for the
benefit of the policy-holders as to make big dividends for
the shareholders); for the proprietary office starts with a
paid-up capital out of which it can put up the deposit.
And it practically makes the establishment of mutual
life societies (which exist for the sole benefit of the policy-
holders) impossible, for at their commencement they have
no funds wherewith to put up the deposit. Maoriland has
the deposit system, and it also possesses the most awful
life office in Australasia ; the deposit idea didn’t
make the least difficulty in the way of establishing the
dreadful Provident and Industrial. It would put not the
least difficulty in the way of the 1.0. F. of Canada. It
would allow any cronk European or American concern
that had a little money to do business here with im-
punity. But if the £IO,OOO deposit system had been in
force for the last 60 years all over Australasia, there
would never have been any A.M.P. Society, or National
Mutual, or Widows’ Fund, or Mutual Life Association.
They all started on the mutual principle, with no fund
out of which the deposit could have been paid. There
isn’t one of the weak little proprietary offices now haunt-
ing this country that the deposit would have stopped;
but it would have squashed in its infancy every office that
Australia is really proud of.
The deposit idea is the lazy and incapable
Ministry’s substitute for a rigid State audit and State
valuation. These would close up the. rotten assurance
concern with £500,000 of funds and £1,000,000 of liabili-
ties, while the sound one with £9OOO funds and only
£BOOO liabilities would be encouraged. It is soundness,
not size, that is wanted.
» » » *
It is reported, just as this issue goes to press,
that Premier Lyne has got his Old Age Pension Bill
drafted—which is good news. But the first feature which
strikes the eye is the announcement that the old man
with no assets is to get 10s. a week and the old woman ss.
That may be good enough if they are husband and wife,
but surely no sane Government would propose that the
single old woman should get only half as much as the
single old man. She can’t get a house any more cheaply
than he, and she wants two boots just as he does, and
she eats just about as much. If the report is correct this
is one feature of the case which requires severe repression.
* • * *
Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works asked
the local public for a loan of £350,000 at 3J per cent, last
Monday, and it was enthusiastically offered £1,112,820.
It gets the money at within a fraction of par. The loan is
cheaper than the best which the Board ever floated
in London, and its brilliant success should be another
hard knock to the crowd which says that Australia can’t
find the money to subscribe its own loans locally, or can’t
find it cheaply enough. No doubt London could find the
money more cheaply than Australia —but it hasn’t enough
faith in this country to do it. Incidentally, this loan
should also be another heavy blow to the dreadful
Queensland Boodle Government which complains (be-
cause its last London loan was less successful than was
expected) that it is necessary to hand over railway con-
struction to syndicates. Surely Queensland’s credit
should be as good in Melbourne as that of the Fitzgibbon
Board!
The S.M. Herald, by the way, still moans that
by local borrowing, money “is being taken from the
banks and from capitalists who otherwise would use and
circulate it, possibly at a lower rate of interest.” The
S.M.H. has never yet managed to assimilate the simple
truth that local borrowing, when the money is spent in
the country, doesn’t “take the money from the banks at
all,” therefore it is quite as available to be circulated by
banks and capitalists after it has passed through the
State's hands as it was before. Yet the fact that, after all
the local borrowing of the last 12 months, there is about
£4,000,000 more coin in the banks than there was a year
ago might have pounded this into even its
dull intelligence. The Herald is still the same unin-
formed organ as it was a year back, when it actually pub-
lished a leader to prove that 1899 years made 19 com-
plete centuries !
* * * *
Answer to “Medicus” : Your friend is a long
way out. The two great reasons why The Bulletin
objects to the A.M.P.’s extension to England are that it
will lead to a greater mortality (which means more out-
goings) and a smaller interest rate (which means less in-
come). Both of these must mean diminution of bonuses.
Writer has no mortality figures immediately available,
but here are the rates of interest earned on their average
funds by the Colonial Mutual, the A.M.P., and the Maori-
land State Life Department. The Colonial Mutual spread
itself to England, South Africa, and other parts of the
British Empire a good many years ago, and is the only
Australian office that has been long in that business.
The A.M.P. has confined itself hitherto to Australasia.
The M.L. State Department has done business in one
province of Australasia only. The Colonial Mutual had
already been in the extension business for some time
before 1892:—
Interest earned per cent.
Colonial Mutual. A.M.P. "
1891 .. £5 14 10 £5 19 4 £5 8 3
1899 .. 3 19 4 4 11 10 4 11 0
The Colonial Mutual, with its extension policy and its
large English business, shows a drop of £1 15s. 6d. per
cent, in its interest rate since 1891; the A.M.P., which
does business in Australasia only, shows a drop of only
£1 7s. 6d. ; the Maoriland State Department, which does
business in a single province, shows a drop of only 17s. 3d.
per cent. The Colonial Mutual, in 1891, earned 6s. 7d.
per cent, more than the Maoriland State Department; it
now earns 11s. Bd. per cent. less. And there is no cor-
responding advantage for the world-wide office in the way
of expenses. On total income these were in 1899 as fol-
lows :
Colonial Mutual. A.M.P. “igSfnSf
£lB ss. sd. £9 9s. Od. £l4 3s. Od.
A large office should be cheaper to manage than a small
one; therefore, the A.M.P. can’t fairly compare with the
two others. But the Colonial Mutual and the Maoriland
State Department are almost of a size, and the superior
cheapness of the office which didn’t extend is remarkable.
* * * »
“X.Y.Z.” : Letter overlooked. Reckon that
your bank-shares are all safe. Colonial preference shares,
we think, are worth holding. Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia preference are good enough, we should say, at
present price. Deposits of Queensland National Bank are
reasonably good ; so, on present appearances, are deposits
of the Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank (Melbourne)
at about 16s. ; also inscribed deposits of the E.S. and A.
Bank.
* * • *
The latest quoted sales of the Australian Joint
Stock Bank’s 3.) per cent, inscribed stock deposits were at
9s. 6d. in the £. This is the lowest quotation for the
deposits of any live bank of issue in Australasia.
» * • *
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania publishes a
greatly improved balance-sheet for the half-year to the
31st August, 1900. Going back to the time when this
institution may be said to have touched bottom in a
profit-earning sense its proceedings have been as follows :
Total reserves at n . ~ , ~ .
June, 1895 ..£190,332 .. Dividends, Dividend-
Profits. iax ’ ® c ’
December, 1895 .. 3,700 .. 5 per cent. = £3,712
June, 1896.. .. 4,201 ..5 „ = 3,766
December, 1896 .. 3,832 ..5 „ = 3,714
August, 1897 .. 4,969 ..5 „ = 4,952
February, 1898 .. 4,463 ..5 „ = 3,715
Written off properties 1,000
August, 1898 .. 4,823 5 per cent. = 3,714
Written off properties 1,000
February, 1899 .. 4,885 .. 5 per cent. = 3,714
Written off properties 1,000
August, 1899 .. 6,519 .. 6 per cent. = 4,457
Written off properties 91,000
February, 1900 .. 6,611 .. 6 per cent. = 4,457
Written off properties 1,500
August, 1900 .. 6,827 .. 7 per cent. = 5,200
Written off properties 1,500
Reserves at 31/8/’OO.. 101,761
£240,162 £240,162
The half-year’s profits are at the rate of £5 13s. per cent,
per xnnum on the shareholders’ funds (capital £141,492
and reserve fund £100,000).
* • • •
There is room for some hard thinking in spots
about the Commercial Bank of Tasmania’s balance-sheet,
prosperous as it undoubtedly looks. - The undivided pro-
fit balance at June, 1895, was £332 ; it is now £1761, so
the co. hasn’t made much progress at replacing the
£90,000 which it wrote off reserves in 1899. Another
point is this : Each half-year’s profits includes, as is usual,
“ amounts recovered from debts previously written off as
bad.” The total of these is not stated. At ordinary
times this is quite correct; if a bank writes off £IOOO for
bad debts out of current earnings, it is perfectly right, if
£2OO or any other sum is afterwards recovered, to put it
into current earnings. But when a bank writes off
£90,000 of bad debts out of reserve fund, and uses sums
afterwards recovered therefrom to pay dividends with,
it is to that extent paying dividends out of reserve fund.
Such sums should be put back in the reserve, and the
Commercial of Tasmania hasn’t been putting anything
into reserve of late. Again, when a bank writes off a
large sum out of reserves or capital for bad debts, its
profits generally increase in a surprising manner imme-
diately after. This is quite understandable. A bank’s
average earnings (including a hundred or two recovered
from the £IOOO or so which may be ordinarily written
off for bad and doubtful debts out of earnings) may be,
say, £BOOO a year. But if it writes off £90,0000 or more of
bad and dubious debts at one swoop out of reserves or
capital, it may quite easily recover £4OOO of these next
year, and thereby swell its apparent profits to £12,000. It
would be interesting to know how much of the increase
in the Commercial of Tasmania’s earnings since it did its
big writing - off are due to an increase in the
amount recovered from bad debts—those debts which
were provided for out of the reserve-fund. As already
mentioned, when an institution starts rebuilding its re-
serve after a big writing down this is of little importance;
the amount put back into reserve may be held to fairly
equal the amount indirectly taken out of it and put into
earnings. But when it starts to dissipate the increased
profits in extra dividends, as the Commercial of Tas-
mania is doing, the case is different.
The Commercial of Tasmania shows a substan-
tial increase in deposits and note circulation, and in its
reserve of cash and Government securities, as compared
with the figures of a year ago, and it has still a very solid
reserve (£100,000) as compared with the size of its capital
and of its business. But whether the increase of the
dividend to 7 per cent, is justifiable at the present time is
very doubtful.
■ * • •
The various troubles of the Economic Per-
manent Building Society (Melb.) in recent years :
Loss through
Loss on Property sales
ordinary below book Total
business. value. Loss.
June, 1896 .. £29 £746 £775
„ 1897 .. 135 1493 1628
„ 1898 .. 78 848 926
Profit.
„ 1899 .. 136 145 9
„ 1900 .. 79 956 877
£27 £4IBB £4215
Reserves have dropped from £4786, in 1895, to £IO2O
(£449 of forfeited capital was added to reserves in 1897).
The present situation is this :
Liabilities. Assets.
Capital .. .. £42,640 Properties, at book
Reserves .. .. 1,020 value .. .. £57,235
Bank Overdraft .. 11,334 Loans on Mortgage 7,058
Deposits .. .. 8,804 Sundries .. .. 146
M. M. Board of
Works .. .. 641
£64,439 £64,439
Judging by the losses on property sold, it seems pro-
bable that, if the Economic realised at present values, it
wouldn’t save more than £20,C00 of its capital—perhaps
not so much. At the same time its immediate
troubles appear to arise chiefly out of the heavy interest
payable on its liabilities. Its deposits appear to carry 4
per cent, interest; its huge bank overdraft about 6j per
cent. ; and its liability to the Board of Works for sewering
its properties, 5 per cent. The total interest bill last
year was £1075. If the shareholders would convert their
fully-paid £5 shares into £7 10s. shares, and pay up the
balance, so as to enable the society to clear off all its debts,
they would get 4 per cent, dividends on the additional
capital, and still leave a profit of £250 a year, which would
go a good way towards writing off loss on property, and thus
save the directors from having to sacrifice the assets in a
very weak market. But it would take a great deal of
explanation to make the average shareholder comprehend
a simple and beneficial arrangement like this. Still,
during times of cheap money like the present, it should
surely be possible to temporarily raise £11,334 at much
less than the rate which the Economic is paying on its
overdraft.
• • * *
A whole lot of institutions, mostly Victorian,
which went down in the troubled financial waters about
’92 or ’93, are coming to the surface again and resuming
active business. One promising sample is the Standard
Mutual Building Society of Melb. This institution sus-
pended in 1891, and in 1893 it agreed to pay
the absurdly high rate of 5 per cent, to de-
positors. It reconstructed in 1895 on the under-
standing that interest on deposits should be reduced to
2j per cent., and that the principal should be repaid by
half-yearly instalments as money became available. Like
most other institutions the Standard was then hampered
by a great mass of foreclosed property which had griev-
ously depreciated in value and was practically unsaleable.
Its record since the reconstruction has been as follows :
Profit Loss through
on Depreciation Total
ordinary of Loss,
business. Property.
July, 1895 .. .. £lsl .. £1,187 .. £1,036
January, 1896 .. 290 .. 1,039 .. 749
July, 1896 .. .. 475 .. 2,962 .. 2,487
January, 1897 .. 447 .. 896 .. 449
July, 1897 .. .. 885 .. 1,711 .. 826
January, 1898 .. 476 .. 1,190 .. 714
July, 1898 .. .. 657 .. 2,250 .. 1,593
Apparent
Profit on Profit.
Property.
January, 1899 .. 726 .. 177 .. 903
Loss on
Property.
July, 1899 .. .. 1,011 .. 692 .. 319
January, 1900 .. 739 .. 74 665
July, 1900 .. .. 1,270 .. 660 .. 610
Profit .. £7,127 Loss £12,484 Loss £5,357
The Standard Mutual Building Society’s reserves at
January, 1895, were £19,088. They got down to £11,234
at July, 1898. Then a steady improvement set in, and
they now amount to £13,731. The Standard has always
managed to pay deposit interest and working expenses
out of earnings and still show a profit, and it has reduced
its deposit liabilities from £85,031 at January, 1895, to
£41,159. Its properties are all unencumbered and it hae
a cash balance of £3517. It is now arranged to write off
about £49,000, being half the capital, in order to reduce
the book value of the foreclosed properties to bedrock ; to
give the depositors 4 per cent, instead of the present 2£
per cent. ; to fix the remainder of their deposits for
five years, and to start doing new business again. The
society is undoubtedly solvent and the proposals seem
fair enough, save for one clause which should be included
in all such arrangements though it is mostly left out. It
should be distinctly specified that when any of the
properties are sold at more than their written-down value
the balance, being really part of the lost capital recovered,
shall not be treated as profit but shall be put to reserve
fund. This is a most essential point.
* * * *
Northern Steamship Cos. (Maoriland) reports a
profit of £3657 for the year ended 31st March, 1900. A 7
per cent, dividend absorbs £3189, leaving £468. The
affairs of the N.S.S. 00. now stand as follows :
Liabilities.
Capital .. .. £60,325
Insurance and other
Reserves.. .. 38,225
Debts .. .. 33,712
£132,262
Assets.
Ships, less deprecia-
tion .. ..£117,432
Buildings, Stores,
Cash, &c 14,830
£132^262
How much depreciation has been written off the co.’s
fleet doesn’t appear, but the reserves are pretty solid for
a concern of this size.
* * * *
The Albert Building Society (Melbourne), though
it has paid no dividends for a long while, is an institution
that has struck better fortune than most of its kind.
Every year, even in the worst times, it has shown some
kind of a credit balance. After deducting losses on pro-
perties sold, the net profits have been as follows :
Profit. Profit.
July, 1892 .. £2324 July, 1897 .. £135
„ 1893 .. 1134 „ 1898 .. 90
„ 1894 .. 114 „ 1899 .. 223
„ 1895 .. 262 „ 1900 .. 332
„ 1896 .. 114
This year’s profit, though it is the largest since 1894, is
only equal to about 10s. lid. per cent, per annum on the
paid-up capital of £60,639, so though the Albert is paying
its way (not a very usual thing with, building societies
just now) the prospect of immediate dividends is hardly
worth mentioning, and if the society realised at pre-
sent values it would be fortunate if it rescued
half its capital out of the downfall. But against
£78,000 worth of property the entire liability to
depositors and mortgagees is only £7770, and this is being
steadily reduced. There are nominal reserves of £9857 to
cover depreciation before it will be necessary to trench on
capital. And as the institution is able to pay its way
with a margin over, and to reduce its liabilities at the
same time, and has a decent bank balance of over £I7OO,
it doesn’t require to sacrifice its properties in a weak
market, but can wait for the improvement which must
come sooner or later. It looks as if the Albert-might,
with patience, perform the rare feat of getting through
the depression with its capital intact, and become a very
profitable investment again.
* * * *
Deniliquin and Moama Railway Cos., which was
for many years a 5 per cent, proposition, has not been
doing quite so well of late. It runs a short line on a plain
which has been of late a very dry and barren plain, indeed,
and there has been little freight, and the local inhabitant
has been too poor in recent years to travel very much.
Hence some of these results :
Profits. Dividends.
June 30, 1898 £387 4 per cent. = £2,000
December 31, 1898 .. .. 3,335 4 per cent. = 2,000
June 30, 1899 14 Nil
December 31, 1899 .. .. -2,999 Nil
June 30,1900 682 4 per cent. = 2,000
£7,417 £6,000
The undivided profit balance has increased by £1417 in
the years—from £19,327 to £20,744, and the total re-
serves are £35,078. This isn’t so very bad for a small
railway with a capital of only £IOO,OOO.
* * " *
The Mutual Store (Limited), Melbourne:
Losses, &c.,
Profit, written off. Dividend.
January, 1895 £1,973 £2,000 £2 4s 5d p. c. £1,250
July, 1895 2,173 2,450 3 6 8 „ 1,875
January, 1896 1,990 „ ~ 1,875
July, 1896 2,244 2,767 „ „ 1,875
January, 1897 1,448 1,400 2 4 6 „ 1,250
July, 1897 1,332 „ „ 1,250
Januarv, 1898 2,557 3 6 8 „ 1,875
July, 1898 3,221 2,150 „ „ 1,875
January, 1899 2,210 200 ~ „ 1,875
July, 1899 1,275 2,000 2 4 5 „ 1,250
January, 1900 1,688 „ „ 1,250
July, 1900 1,967 3 6 8 „ 1,875
£24,078 £12,967 £19,375
The total reserves of the Mutual Store at July, 1894,
were £15,108. They are now reduced to £6844. The
sums written off consist mainly of depreciation, bad
debts and shortages in the accounts. The bank overdraft
at July, 1894, was £69,416. It was £57,269 at January,
1898. It is now £64,713, so it has grown £7OOO worse in
the last 2J years. Apparently it costs 6 per cent, in
interest, which is a heavy burden. If the Mutual Store’s
lands and buildings, put down at a book value of £110,559,
were worth that amount, it ought to be possible to con-
vert the overdraft into a 4 per cent, mortgage and save
£I2OO a year interest, but the property which has a book
value of £110,559, and which hasn’t been written down
since the boom days, has usually an immediate selling
value of about £55,000. Probably on present values half
the £112,500 of capital is lost. On present appearances
the Mutual Store should certainly nob pay away more
than £1250 half-yearly in dividends for the next 12 or 20
years. It is the only visible way of clearing off its over-
drafts and getting funds to do any necessary writing-
down of property values.
* * • *
S.A. Govt., avowedly with the object of still
more securely tethering the B.H. Prop.’s smelting in-
dustry to the province, undertakes to support the co.’s
bill for the construction of a line from the Iron Monarch
flux mine to the nearest port; but it will insist on several
conditions, among them that the mining co. shall under-
take never to dispose of the tramway to either another
co. or anybody else. The co. itself round-aboutly pro-
mises to so arrange matters at the flux quarries that men
who have become lead-poisoned at the smelting furnaces
—there are scores of them —may work off the effects while
making a living at ironstone-raising. Between one thing
and another the bill will go through—and the province,
having just bought up the last of the private railway lines
within its borders, will soon have another.
* * * *
Gibraltar-Consolidated, N.S.W. Last return
known in Australia, 1240 tons, 6270 z. Total with con-
centrates and tailings, 8560 z. ; estimated mining costs
£2350. Capital, £300,000 in £1 shares. Buyers in London,
6d. ; sellers, Is. Scrip was once over £2.
* » * *
Gallymont, N.S.W., another Anglo-Australian
£300,000 float. Shares in London—buyers, 15d. ; sellers,
2s. 6d. They were once at par. A terrible disappoint-
ment from the jump. Mine now worked on tribute, and
most of its elaborate machinery going to Mt. Boppy,
Cobar district, where the writer is reliably told there is
something like a mine, in which this co. is largely in-
terested. Otherwise, its shares would probably be about
15d. a dozen.
* * * »
Hillgrove Proprietary, N.S.W.—A London co.
that took over several blocks adjoining Baker’s Creek
mine, and must have spent £20,000 to pick up Smith’s
reef of that co. on the boundary. It was struck last Fri-
day, and is reported to be sin. thick, showing gold right
through. The co. deserves this reward. The people
of Hillgrove are “ jubilant” on account of the strike, and
some men there, no doubt, have visions of “ cat floats ” in
the hub of Oatland.
• * * *
Sunlight G.M., N.S.W., about a year ago, was
crushing a lot of stone, but no div. was in sight. Now
The Bulletin is told divs. are soon to be paid. For long
the profits earned have been expended in development.
The shaft has been deepened, low levels opened out,
battery (40 head) made equal to new, and stamps and
boxes turned out and new ones put in ; electric power
laid on to mine and battery instead of steam, at a great
saving of cost; and the co. has a considerable amount in
cash, in concentrates, and in gold on plates. If so, the
Sunlight has pulled through its troubles.
* » * *
B.H. Junction’s reconstruction scheme is
through ; 98 per cent, of the new-issue shares were taken
by present shareholders, and there were many applica-
tions for more. The co.’s old-standing debt-burden has
been shaken off, a start has been made to get down after
other suspected runs of ore (including what the Junction
North has been workingat 850 ft.), and the necessary plant
for re-treating the secondary mill-products is in hand.
Even without these new works, however, the mine busi-
ness has been mending, and a profit of a few hundreds
weekly has lately been made.
* - * * *
In a long list of Maoriland mines on London
stock-list only two shows stand out as good—Waihi, £lO,
representing a value of over 3 millions, and divs. show
that it was worth it; Waitekauri, £2 155., representing a
value of half-a-million.
* * * *
Westralian market. — Some mysterious rises and
falls have taken place during the week. Ivanhoes have
been up to £ll Bs. and back to £lO 12s. There is an
extraordinary rumor as to how this mine is keeping up
its gold production. Lake Views have been over £l4 and
back to £l3 10s. The latest from London is that they are
going to see £2o—not on account of the mine, but of the
engineering of the mighty Whitaker Wright, who having,
’tis said, made half a million of money in squeezing
“ bears ” in the Le Roi No. 2 deal, is going to use the
money in trying to squeeze Lake View “bears.” As far
as if is possible to learn, the mine is very sick in the
deepest level. The approximate value of last month’s
return was £20,000, and the admitted expenditure was
nearly £17,000. No div. declared for some months, and
no hope of any on these returns. The Diehl process will
shortly be at work, but it must not be forgotten that the
co. is now treating 3000 tons of sulphide a month, which
is only averaging a little over an ounce. Yet the mine
has a valuation of nearly 3J millions—much greater than
that of the Boulder, whose return is double and expenses
much less, and whose dividends are regular and shares
without market fluctuation. There is a far greater cer-
tainty of Lake Views falling to £lO than possibility of
their going to £2O.
(Continued on page 19.)


OVERCOATS FOR THE WINTER SEASON
PALMERSTON OVERCOATS—
-42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
W. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Vicuna, Satin Facings and Fore-parts,
63s
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
Single-Breasted.
BLUE AND FAWN BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
BLUE AND FAWN MELTON CLOTH,
52s 6d
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d,
42s
CLERICAL BLACK WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in TWEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s 6d
D.B BLUE NAP, 50s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS,
with DEEP CAPE,
Fan j eotoh Tweeds, 30s, 355, 50s, 55s
New
Smart
Shapes
PADDOCK COATS-
-56 to 58 inches in Length.
PAWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 58s 6d, 65s
PAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVERT
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 54 to 56 inches in
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d.
COVERT COATS-
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 6d
Fawn Beaver, 45s
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES—
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth Facings, 40s
Black Vicuna, with Satin Facings, 47s 6d, 63s
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONEST& COMPANY.
Orient Clothiers, George & Barrack Streets, SYDNEY.
the original
JOHN JAMESON WHISKEY
ESTABLISHED 1780.
Trade Mark.
John Jameson & Son are not Blenders of Whiskey, but Distillers of one
quality of spirit, viz., the finest old still whiskey that can be produced
—the only difference between the grades being that of AGE.
In order that customers may feel assured of genuineness, attention is
requested to our Special Export Label, and to our Name and Trade Mark
on Corks, Capsules, and Cover; also to Age Mark.
Agents—J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney.
SOCIETY
One “ Theodore Cook ” writes from Lon-
don to the Australian press generally, asking Aus-
tralia to contribute to a monument (to be erected
in London, where Australians can’t see it) to the
memory of the soldiers who fell in S’Africa. This
paper yields to no one in its love of monuments,
but it likes them to be not too far away. It pro-
poses as an amendment that Sydney should get up
a huge fund wherewith to make Georgo-street a
straight thoroughfare 120 feet wide, and that it
should be called Contingent-street. Victoria
might build its Mildura railway, and Tasmania
its Great Western, and Maoriland its Northern
Trunk line, and Queensland its Cloncurry railway
by patriotic public subscription, and each of them
might be called the Contingent Railway. Adel-
aide wants a Contingent Electric Tramway system
badly, and Perth a Contingent Drainage system.
Let us be wildly patriotic—and practical. Use-
lessness and remoteness are not absolutely neces-
sary qualities of a monument.
* * * *
Gov.-General Hopetoun will arrive in
Australia laden with grease (writes a Bulletin
correspondent from London). The “ Royal Order
of the Southern Cross,” upon which Queen Vic-
toria is said to be very sweet, is understood to be
a suggestion of his. Probably the Order will be
officially promulgated in time for Hopetoun to
throw a few of the new decorations about when he
opens the Federal ball in Sydney. Canada is to
have an order to itself—that of the Maple-Leaf—
which, out of compliment to theFrench-Canadians,
will be worn in the button-hole, after the manner
of the Legion of Honour in France. Perhaps
Maoriland will, in time, be given the Order of the
Moa. You will all have to wear decorations
somehow or other, for it is known that the Queen
has been annoyed on occasions when it has been
reported to her that colonial men have refused
knighthood. George Dibbs fell an easy prey to
the wily Knutsford’sgun, but others have proved
obdurate, and “ we don’t like it.”
* * * *
Beauchamp’s flight from Sydney before
Hopetoun arrives saves a repetition of depressed
gubernatorial dignity. Gov. Denison, about 50
years ago, wasn’t quick enough to get out of the
Tasmanian House before his successor arrived,
and indecorous bungling was the consequence.
Denison, his wife and a houseful of children had
to stow themselves away for several days in a
Hobart pub. Boats were not then so frequent in
their running as now. Denison took pub. life
philosophically enough (he was a man with two or
three engineering hobbies) but Lady Denison
chafed angrily. The fall from vice-queen to plain
dweller in a hash-house got on her nerves.
,* * * *
Gov. Beauchamp’s hasty departure has
spoilt one contemplated little job, anyway—the
job of purchasing somebody’s house and grounds,
at a high figure, as a second gubernatorial resi-
dence—to be thrown on the State’s hands in three
months.
« * * *
Chamberlain has written (through Lord
Tennyson) to Premier Holder plainly informing
him that if the salary attached to the S.A.
Governorship is cut down the province must be
prepared to have an official sent out to fill the
position who will be instructed that he need not
spend locally any more than his vice-regal income.
Holder retorts that there is no necessity to do
that at present.
* * * *
Q. police are chuckling over the failure of
the N.S.W. men to capture the Governors!
When the Q. peelers failed miserably at Gatton
the Southerners poked heaps of borak.
* * » *
From a N.S.W. country letter :
The troopers in search of the Breelong blacks up this
way can do nothing- without orders from head-quarters.
Dispatches are going and coming hourly. It is also oom-
monly asserted that most of the police are not trying to
capture the blacks, but simply putting in the time. Fine
weather and extra pay—it is a glorious outing for them !
A widow named Swain, 10 miles from here, was told that
two constables would be stationed in her house next
night for protection. She left a comfortable supper for
them, and went to a neighbor’s for the night, but instead
of the police the Governors came along, ate the supper,
smashed up everything breakable in the house, and went
off with a week’s tucker. When Mrs. Swain returned and
saw what had happened she sent her son to inform the
police, who, instead of immediately dispatching a couple
of men, got fooling round, insisting that he (the son)
should make a declaration. The majority of the troopers
are all right, but the men in charge have mistaken their
avocation. They should be soft-goods clerks.
* * * *
Story from the Breelong - blacks - scare
country. In the small hours of morning a spoony
couple were on the way home from a ball. Two
horsemen rode past, and one returned to ask the
time. Adonis struck a match to see, but in the
glare he noticed that the inquirer was a black-
fellow. He darted off with a whoop, and left a
hysterical girl screaming on the road. The con-
stable and the black-tracker saw her home. The
engagement is now off.
* * * *
“ ’Orris ” Tozer can tell ’em yet, as witness
this contribution of his to immigration literature :
Comparatively (in Brisbane) immorality is conspicuous
by its absence. I never remember having seen one in-
stance of a woman publicly offering herself for immoral
purposes.
THE LAST WILD GAT.
THE PRIEST (with a booh in his hand, but not looking at it): “And, Patrick, the streets are
of shining gold”
THE DYING MINER: “ Pardon, yer ririrence, but are ye rading from a prospictus or from th ’
report av the Warden? ”
When Archbishop Redwood was under-
stood to have told three Governors, a Chief Justice
and some hundreds of more or less influential
Protestants that the founders of their particular
brand of belief were mostly hogs, disinterested
outsiders were inclined to give hirfti credit as an
outspoken fanatic who heaved manners overboard
where what he considered the Terewth was con-
cerned. He was regarded with the good-humored,
contemptuous admiration that clean-living infidels
feel for the stern, dirty, austere old prophets, who
aforetime strode down from some mountain height
and, in the name of the Most High, cursed kings
to their faces on their thrones and amidst their
guards with a curse that is still the admiration of
all fighting-men. But when the Archbishop re-
ceived the reporter and suavely explained that he
had composed his sermon for Catholics only and
then, finding himself in the presence of wealthy
and titled Protestants, he had decided to truckle
to them by suppressing the Truth, and that the
unpleasant things, though they happened to be
left in the printed copies which he supplied to the
Press, weren’t spoken at all, he fell beneath con-
tempt. Instead of being a courageous bigot, he
gises as the bigot without courage—the Bigot who
acked Down. Give us a fanatic before a time-
server any day.
This expurgated-sermon business is cer-
tainly the most unfortunate religio-social event
that has happened in Australia since the shooting
of the Duke of Edinburgh. And it is such a gra-
tuitous piece of folly, too. As the offensive pas-
sages were not worth saying, they were surely not
worth printing. The rancour they have stirred
up is not being lessened by the flippant tone
assumed concerning them by Cardinal Moran.
It is only such occurrences as these that
enable a white man to form some sort of idea as
to the strife stirred up by foreign missionaries
among the otherwise peaceful inhabitants of
China.
Printed proof copies of Archbishop Red-
wood’s much-criticised sermon were handed to the
reporters a few minutes before it was delivered.
The portions that were not spoken, in considera-
tion of the mixed assemblage, were not blue-
pencilled, and the pressmen, on receiving their
copies, confidently went out and had a quiet smoke.
The Archbishop, possibly, took it for granted that
the scribes would remain within earshot, and
would sub-edit the printed matter to fit in with
what he actually did say. As delivered, the dis-
course—a most excellent one—hurt nobody’s
feelings.
Ed. Bulletin. Redwood’s
tardy explanation that he did not actually deliver
the scathing and bitter words so much objected to
in his Cathedral address, but only (whether
deliberately or through mere carelessness) passed
them off as an integral part of his original sermon,
for circulation far and wide, makes his action more
unwise and inexcusable than ever. By making it
appear that distinguished Protestants sat unmoved
during a ferocious and uncalled-for attack on their
Church, the Archbishop did a cruel wrong to the
Church’s guests, which wrong be further accen-
tuated by allowing a whole week to pass before the
denial that the attack was delivered was given to
the Press. — Anglicanus.
* * * •
Item from the evidence in the inquiry as
to the management,of Stoker Orphanage (Maori-
land), supervised by certain hard-flogging Marist
brothers:
Since the surprise visits (by a Govt, official) the socks
they (the orphans) wore had been changed once a week.
Previously they were worn till thrown away.
Despite all the sects already in existence there is
room for one more—the Clean Church. No person
to be qualified for membership unless she or he
has a daily bath and puts on spotless underclothing
at least twice a week. Members with soiled
collars to be censured. Applicants for member-
ship to have their clothing and houses inspected,
and two cobwebs in the house to disqualify.
Applicant’s dogs to be microscopically examined,
and more than six fleas on one dog to disqualify.
Applicant’s back-yard to be viewed over the fence
by discreet deacons at various times during his or
her probation, and one bashed kerosene-tin in the
corner to disqualify. All applicant’s drains to be
smelt by the Church. If applicant is a female, the
heels of her stockings to be kept under observa-
tion for a month or so before admission. There is
a great opening for the Clean Church in every
country.
JIGGITY JANE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jiggitty-Jane, you can’t keep still,
Mend your morals you never will—
Round the corner and down the street
Off you strut on your nightly beat—
Hair re-gilded and boots of tan—
Vulture-eyed for a kind young man—
Looking into each window-pane,
Jiggitty-Jiggitty-Jiggitty- Jane !
Jiggitty Jane, when you were young,
Slim of figure and quick of tongue,
Maiden-dreams of a marriage-ring
Made you blush in the early Spring.
Now the Beak at the charge-sheet know 3
The blush is only upon your nose.
“ Twelve convictions, and drunk again ! ”
Jiggitty-Jiggitty-Jiggitty-Jane !
Jiggitty-Jane, you rose to fame;
All the Provinces knew your name.
Queen of Pleasure and hard to please,
Most of your lovers were M.L.C’s.
The giddy toy of a Millionaire
With house and trap and a clinking pair.
Now your home is the wide Domain,
J iggitty-Jiggitty-J iggitty-J ane !
Jiggitty-Jane, you’re worn and old.
All your lovers proved false and cold.
Down the levels you slowly ran
Prom the millionaire to the stoker-man.
Yester-morn in the dewy light
You whispered low to a swaggie tight
“Kiss me quicker, and come again.”
O Jiggitty-Jiggitty-Jiggitty- Jane! !!
Jiggitty-Jane, you’re fifty-four,
Knocking there at the Army door.
Not a lover, and not a pal
Helped you into the Hospital.
A contract-undertaker chap
Shoved you into the coffin-trap,
Rattled you out of this world of pain,
Jiggitty-Jiggitty-Jiggitty-Jane!
Q.
WM. WATTLE.


Don’t be put ofi
with worthless
imitations of
SUNLIGHT
SOAP.
SoreTbroat
“You cannot do better than
gargle with ‘Condy’s Fluid.’ ”
Sir Morell Mackenzie, M.D.
(The Eminent Throat Specialist)
Gargle
with
Condy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL, London, England,
are the only Makers.
‘ ‘ Con dvs Fluid *» can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitation.
Our petition
RTYR
To our Customers means more than at first appears. It en-
sures every one of them the benefit of our Half-Century’s
experience in
Accurately Fitting Feet,
and sends them away thoroughly pleased with their purchase.
You would go away pleased it von were to call and buy a new
pair of CALLAGHAN BOOTS or SHOES.
Ladies’ Tan Shoes, 12/6, 13/9, 14/6
Ladies’ Vici-Kid Shoes, 11/6, 12/9, 15/6
Gent’s Tan Lace Boots, 19/6, 22/6, 26/-
Gcnt’s Calf Lace Boots, 16/6, 18/6, 21/-
CALLAGHAN AND SON,
395 Grorge-street, Sydney.
Nearly a dozen officials, Parliamentary
and other, are now in Sydney as a select commit-
tee from Victoria to inquire into the N.S.W.
method of lighting railway-carriages. This is a
rapidly-growing sc'ieme for holidaying at the pub-
lic expense. Gad about commissions of this sort
are almost invariably put-up jobs, engineered by
one or two departmental officials who pine for a
cheap trip. A couple of s fillings passed through
the twopenny postbag would, as a rule, elicit more
complete information than is acquired by any of
these peripatetic committees.
* * * *
There are upwards of 100 actions for
damages, taken or pending, against N.S.W. Rail-
way Commissioners in consequence of accidents
with Sydney electric tram. In the actions which
have been already tried, the juries have shown
strong sympathy with complainants, even when
complainants were clearly at fault. It is felt
that the Commissioners .won't pay out of their
own pocket; and the corporate purse is
everybody’s and nobody’s property. So when
a woman, for example, starts to leave the tram
by one door, changes her mind and goes to
the door at the other end of the car, then reverts
to her original intention, goes back, gets off when
the tram is’moving, and falls, —the jury is apt to
commiserate her broken bones or her “shock,”
and forget that she herself is solely responsible,
for the accident. In any large community there
are thousands of mentally-feeble' persons with
just wits enough to plod along in the rut they are
used to. Modern life is too complex for their
weak brains ; and every fresh complexity is apt to
kill them off by scores. They may be used to the
old elements of the ’bus, and the cab, and the
steam tram ; but the electric tram is a new element
which they simply cannot adjust themselves to.
So they fall off it, or over it, or under it; and the
community is called upon to pay for the education
of their feeble wits.
For keeping her shop open (someone
caught her selling a few vegetables) last Sunday
week, a woman in one of the Sydney suburbs was
•fined 10s. andnosts. Simultaneously at St. Mary’s
Cathedral was held the dedication pageant, at
which an admission fee of £l, 10s. and ss. was
openly demanded Presuming that the R.C.
dignitaries would not flout the law, and so acted
within it, this Sunday-observance law seems a
curious thing. It costs the Consolidated Revenue
£lOOO a year extra for the Zoological Society,
because that body is not permitted to charge for
admission on the Sabbath, and must open its gates
free to the public. And the ordinary obtuse person
can’t see the justice of allowing a charge of £1 to
gaze on the Cardinal in the Cathedral, when it is
illegal to pay 3d. to see the flamingo in the Zoo.
* * * *
Curious that Adelaide, where women are
so much to the fore, should hitherto have been so
barren of women doctors. The first to get seri-
ously into general practice has just put up her
plate.
* * * *
The absolute-identification young lady
was in evidence at St. Kilda (Vic.) court last
week. She succeeded in picking out as her
dastardly railway-carriage assailant from a num-
ber of others a young man who was conclusively
proved to have been present at a concert miles
away when the assault was taking place. The
case broke down, but, as usual, nothing further
happened to the young lady.
* • * *
“Some women are as great fools as they
are liars, but as destitute of sense as they are of
shame.” Thus J udge a’Beckett to a respondent
in Melb. Divorce Court the other day. That
A MUSICAL ITEM.
HER: “Are you very fond of music, Mr. Chummy? ” HIM: “Oh! exceedingly so—of good music.”
HER: “ Is that why you never play yourself?”
damsel, a girl of 20, had, six months after marri-
ao-e returned to the co-respondent—with whom
she had previously been keeping house, which fact
was amply proved by her own letters, and by her
father’s and sister’s evidence. Yet she had the
‘ ‘ front ” to put in an affidavit denying the miscon-
duct and even to propose reiterating her denials
from the witness-box. Lovely woman mostly will
stick to her fairy-tale in the face of evidence that
would condemn the angel Gabriel. “ This case,”
went on the Judge, “shows the extent to which
women dare swear falsely against positive evi-
dence. They are utterly destitute of shame,
remorse, or any feeling of regret at the wrong they
had done.” Judge a’Beckett’s words should be
printed on the indictment of every man charged
with criminal assault; but, as usual, there was no
talk of docking the woman for perjury.
A prominent civil servant lately astonished
the Minister of his Department by strolling into
the office and observing that he was about to take
a month’s leave of absence to visit his harem.
“What!” yelled the Minister, “your harem!”
“ Yes,” replied the subordinate, “ I’ve got 300 of
them there—but it’s too many, though,” he added,
stroking his beard, “ far too many. But I’ll tell
you what f’ll do—l’ll give you 50 of the nicest
girls, if you like.” The Head stared at the man,*
saw he was in earnest, and then, scribbling a few
words, despatched a messenger to the Govt.
Medical Officer, who soon arrived. Then a second
medical man was called in. “ He’s in ecstatics
now, poor fellow,” said one of the experts—“in
three weeks there will be a reaction, and in three
months he will be dead. ”
* * * •
When burly Butler, the partner of Soft-
goods Sargood, was being champagned by his
Melbourne friends, the other day, little Zeal the
Leg. Council President, referred to him as “ one
of the merchant princes who have done so much
to provide employment and develop commerce.”
How these “representative” capitalists love to
paint one another as philanthropic creators of
labor, wages, and ‘ ‘ general prosperity ” ! A busi-
ness expands in a natural way to the profit and
glory of the middle men who have exercised a
very ordinary ability in conducting it, and lo ! the
middlemen are said to have enriched the land of
their customers.
* * « *
The flaring cross-headings and minutely
gloatful details of a recent Gippsland sweetheart-
murder in the Melb. daily press are very con-
ceivably responsible for the Yan Yean shooting
case. There are many people in every community
who are on the “ touch-and-go ” line in the matter
of mentality and self-control, and hypnotism is
not confined to the music-hall.
* * * *
Sydney Daily Telegraph is coining up to
date. A new job-line heading is introduced ;
paragraphs are written in sketchy style; and
leaders with real brains in them appear in nearly
every issue.
• * * *
The horse-reporter expatiates on a tough
and enduring sensation :
Up-to-date none of the nominators for the Breelong
Aboriginal Oup of 400 sovs. have shown much form :
Civilian, Trooper, Inspector, Squatter, Selector, Tracker,
and Bloodhound alike seem only half-fit, and painfully
wanting in pace and dash. This is the more noticeable
as every now and then there have been wired to head-
quarters glowing accounts of good work which after-
results have not justified. Looking for a good gallop, we
have been disappointed, though the stake seems good
enough for most of ’em to be downright triers. The back-
block touts are to a man on Half-caste and Governor, a
pair of brothers. apparently of the Gaulus and Grafter
order.
* * * *
A sign of reaction is noticeable in the
arrest of an eccentric Melbournian, who persisted
in singing “Sons of the Sea” in the Victoria
Coffee Palace, the other night, and could not be
silenced by the united efforts of directors,
managers, boots and boarders in various stages of
undress. A few weeks ago the boarders and the
management would have poured, whisky over the
visitor, and would have hailed him as a true-born
Briton, while the man who dared to give such a
vocalist into custody would have been lynched on
the spot. Indeed, it is doubtful whether any
policeman could have been found to lock up a man
on such a charge. The Jingoism of Australia is
waning. * • *
Melbourne’s latest tragedy is a sordid
story. The youth in the case —he was but 19—
being urged by his sweetheart’s younger sister to
marry the girl he had courted far too long, refused
on the ground that he would disgrace her by doing
so, as he expected to be shortly fined for playing
pitch-and-toss. The small absurdity of the excuse
angered the girl, and she struck him over the head
with her gingham. This public insult so rank
that a day later he bought a revolver, rode 0
miles out to where the youngster was at service,
and, taking her out for a walk, shot her dead
afterwards mortally wounding himself. For lack
of adequate cause this tragedy is almost unique,
• * * *
The death of the woman J ohnston at
Fitzroy, Vic., the other day sets one moralising on
the luck some men have in escaping the gallows,
Johnston’s “bloke” had left her a few hours
earlier with a strange man in the house ; when he
IN MAORILAND.
1ST. MAN: “ Well, Pat —still doing nothing?”
2ND MAN : “ Nothing! Why, man, Pm putting in time to qualify
for an ould age pension!”
returned she was lying dead, with her head
amongst the fragments of an earthenware jar.
First thoughts of the police were of murder, and
the strange man was in eager demand. But about
here someone recalled the O’Neil ease, in which it
was proved that the victim was killed in exactly
the same way—through falling with a teapot in
her hand, and having her spinal cord severed by a
sharp fragment. The woman’s husband in the
O’Neill business was on nodding terms with the
hangman till Dr. Neild found a fragment of the
teapot wedged in her spine, and demonstrated
beyond a doubt that the woman had not been
beaten to death by the bloodstained weapon pro-
duced by the police. In Australia everyone should
thank God at least once a year on finding himself
still unhanged.
* * * *
He that swingeing attack on Mr, Randall
Carey, president of Sydney D.T. Co. in Sydney
Truth. It’s just this way. Since John Norton
obtained from N.S.W. Full Court the ruling that
either party to a libel-suit is entitled to have his
case heard by a jury of 12, the local law of libel
has practically been abrogated in John Norton’s
favor. For John never attacks anybody who has
not some sort of a sore heel, and when getting a libel
verdict means in the last resort a majority of nine
to three, it is rarely indeed that John can’t find
one-third of the jury hang out in his favor.
Apropos , the persistent antagonism of some Judges
to the jury system received a check the other
night, when in N.S.W. Assembly, Attorney-
General Wise discreetly abandoned several clauses
of the Supreme Court Procedure Bill, which
aimed directly, or indirectly, at juries. T’was
stated that the Bill had the full favor of the
Judges. The jury system has no more indefatig-
able advocate than John Norton. He has the
scent of a bloodhound for anything savoring of an
attack upon the “bulwark of our national liber-
ties”—and of Norton’s private liberty. Judge-
verdicts would long ago have made mincemeat
of the gentle John.
* * * *
Chief Justice Madden, in a recent Mel-
bourne divorce-case, gave another of his astound-
ing readings of the meaning of the British lan-
guage :
There was evidence that the respondent behaved
brutally towards his wife, but the acts alleged—
the acts included throwing the lady downstairs,
seizing her by the throat, pulling her hair, and
striking her on the lips—
that the acts alleged—
Now draw a long breath and take hold of some-
thing solid—
did not constitute Cruelty within the meaning of the
Act.
It would really appear that Chief-Justice Madden
has become so demoralised by attending prize-
fights in his youth that he has decided not to let
anything constitute cruelty within the meaning of
the Act.
* * * »
The abrupt disappearance of the N.S.W.
Fire Brigades Bill on a technical point, and the
angry statement of Chief Secretary See that it
can go to the devil, or words to that effect, is a
great blow to certain persons. Like the majority
of the Lyne Govt, measures the Bill provided for
a nice billet or two. Three Commissionerships
were proposed under it, and the Minister in-
tended raising the number to four.
The reason that
the hundreds of con-
sumptive patients in
Liverpool (N.S.W.)
Asylum for the Des-
titute are practically
imprisoned in the in-
stitution is that the
residents of Liver-
pool township object
to scores of phthisi-
cal cases in all stages
of the disease roam?
ing through their
streets, and so
spreading infection
in the town. The
asylum is situated in
the centre of Liver-
pool, almost in the
railway-station yard,
and its limited area
is taxed to the ut-
most. The buildings
themselves are out of
date; they were
built for military
purposes when the
centurv was in its
teens But while
Parliament House
wants a bowling-
green, and Sydney
its Art Gallery and
Museum, and Syd-
ney University a
£70,000 library, the
unfortunate paupers
in the old barracks
must wait. The disa-
bility under which
these poor people la-
bor is no fault of the
Medical Superinten-
dent. He pointed
it out when the leave
to inmates was
stopped, but was
powerless against the
clamor of the Liver-
pool Council and
residents.
« •
The establish -
ment provided for by
the will of the late
R. T. Hall, of Syd-
ney, for the open-air
treatment of phthi-
sis, will be open, it appears, only to patients who
are at the same time “indigent, moral, and edu-
cated.” Mr. Hall himself (a N.S.W. Treasury
official) suffered many years from phthisis, but
reached a reasonably old age for all that. He
was a very gentle and benevolent man and had
a crowd of pensioners. His mining luck was re-
markable.
The master of the Brighton (Port Jackson
Co. ferry-steamer), who has had his certificate sus-
pended over a collision with the collier Brunner, had,
it transpired, been on duty for over 17 hours right
off prior to the accident, and it was stated inN.S. W.
Leg. Assembly, by Mr. E. M. Clark, M.L.A.,
that one ferry company in Sydney worked its men
100 hours a week. The crews employed by another
co. worked often 104 hours, and never less than 65
hours, a week. Another co.’s hours were 78, and
others from 65 to 70 per week. In Newcastle one
line of ferries worked its men 110 hours, another
105 hours, and a third 81 hours ; while on the
steam-tugs men were sometimes kept at work for
no less than 12!) hours in one week. And it
would appear that ’bus-drivers and railway-guards
and signalmen are in like unhappy case.
SALT AND PEPPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Who salted the stone
That came from the mine
No. 1 atGlenfine?
All the late buyers groan,
As they vainly repine
“ Who salted that stone ? ”
Who salted the stone
From the mine at Glenfine,
And enjoyed such a loan
Of the market, as shown
By the price ? Quite alone
Did he work, or combine
With a mate at Glenfine ?
Who peppered the stock,
Like a “ book ” in the know
When a nag doesn’t “ go,”
And dealt it a knock
Which was almost a blow?
Who peppered the stock ?
Who peppered the stock,
Like a “ book” in the know,
Ere new tests of the rock
Gave the public a shock?
’Midst a share-selling flock
It were easy to show
Who were most in the know.
And what shall be done
When the truth cometh out
(Sans a shadow of doubt)
With the three, two, or one
Whom the whisper’s about ?
Then, what shall be done ?
Let the Public be “ done,”
Let the jugginses shout,
For their clamour is fun
To the son of a gun
Who is scoffing the bun.
Let the jugginses pout
When the truth cometh out.


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK ROY’S success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’B.
If you asked City Friends to get your -wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing !
Write to
MARK FOy, SYDNEY.
Same prices and attention as If you bought amongst the dally crowds at the counters.
Art is the expression of feeling—the
better the feeling the better the art. A poem
may be cunningly phrased or a tragic speech cor-
rectly declaimed, but lacking feeling the achieve-
ment is more artificial than artistic. The fine
feeling displayed in the curved poetry of the P.D.
Corset, as its subtle and silent song proclaimeth
the beauty of the female form, proclaims its own
high position in the realm of art : —and in the mind
of beauty. *
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
ONINNfnJ
f
rtvriH o^ -
5 MACHINES
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
' machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
af
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St-. Brisbane.
GLOBE TCfIS *”» w °
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
„ _ ~ Sydney, . IS, 1900.
My Dear Myek.—
I had a chat with “ Banjo ” Paterson, the other
day. Naturally there was one subject above all
others I would have liked to hear him discourse,
on. But it was just the one subject on which
“Banjo” was aggravatingly dumb—obstinately
and persistently dumb. “I will talk of anything
else you like, but not of .” And I don’t even
feel at liberty to fill up the blank. I must leave
it to your imagination.
This popular young man—quite a society demi-
god, at present—smarts his lectures at the Cen-
tenary Hall on Friday. R. S. Smythe engineers,
him, so all’s well that way. For a change,
“Banjo” wears the regulation hammer-claw in-
stead of the Norfolk jacket, kharki, and felt hat,
sacred to war-correspondents.
“It was grand to get back to Australia. Every-
body here looks so clean, so alert.” Apropos ,
“Banjo” arrived in Sydney on Tuesday, Metrop.’
Day, when men were certainly looking alert, and'
women were destined to be admired. Speaking
of Kipling, “Banjo” uses the term “lovable.”
Lovable? “Yes, indeed, that’s quite the right
word. Sincere, straightforward, kindly, and genial
—otherwise, lovable.” Also, there’s a mention
of a new book from “Banjo’s ” pen ; a sort of comic
history, or rather, lighter side, of the Boer War.
Out in Africa he found “The Man from Snowy
River ” his best friend. General Archibald Hun-
ter had nothing else to read for a long time, and,
reading that, he and “Banjo” foregathered
fraternally. _ The occurrence that seems to have
left a deep impression on our poet’s mind was a,
certain dinner, when officers rode horses up and
down stairs, and everyone was perfectly sober,
yet everyone contrived to give the impression that
it is possible to become as frantically intoxicated
on a happy turn in the tide of war as on any Baccha-
nalian berry.
The R.C. Church is having a gay time just now.
It held a Congress the other day, at which the
Bible in Schools was hardly mentioned, the Con-
gress being too busy enticing coin from the un-
believer. Of late the Church has been cursed in a
mild, lovable fashion by its own children, because
the pews of St. Mary’s Cathedral were, on a recent
Sunday, let out for from ss. to £1 to curious Pro-
testants (Gov. Beauchamp included) to the ex-
clusion of numerous true disciples who could not
spare half as much from the rint.
The Congress concert, held on the 11th in
Sydney Town Hall, will likely prove a financial
success. The hall was filled long Before 8 o’clock,
and half-crown ticket-holders banged in at shilling
doors, while the humbler seekers after Is. worth
of enjoyment mingled with the kid-gloved who
had gone in for 4s. fid. worth, and were with diffi-
culty disentangled from their illustrious com-
panions. At the back, where there was an in-
sufficiency of chairs, a number of the shilling
people got up into the embrasures and made bas-
reliefs of themselves. Also somebody fainted.
The programme was churchy and classically
sorrowful. Miss Boland sang “ Abide With Me’’
to the sadder of its two tunes, and the other items
dealt mostly with the angels and similar foreign
matters. The applause following Miss Kate
Rooney’s effusion was longer than the song itself,
and Miss Boland brought a flavour of the earthly
into the programme with her rendering of. the
“ Minstrel Boy,” though he also became an angel
eventually. There were alleged to be a thousand
children on the platform. The voices did not
sound like a thousand, and as a noise production
they were a failure, but as a musical exhibition
they did very well. The children remained on
the platform all the evening, and in their white
dresses, and shoulder knots, and sashes of the
green that looks blue at night, they resembled a
large white cloud with bits of azure sky and
numerous cherubic heads breaking through."
Miss Burdekin’s wedding came off last Wednes-
day at St. James’ Church, by printed invitation
only. By the way, I hear, on no sort of authority
at all, that relatives of both matrimonial sides
stood out in the street and looked on. But inside
there was a highly swagger gathering. Society
was all there, frocked in dresses that had been
seen on the lawn before. The church was decor-
ated rather simply with white flowers, and the
wedding was quiet, by special desire of the
widowed mother, Mrs. Burdekin. But all the
same the police had to keep back the crowd in the
street outside the church.
Nobody can imagine Mrs. Burdekin as the
grandmother she really is. Her slim, graceful
figure was frocked in a flowing black net, heavily
appliqued in black chine silk, a black toque, pale
mauve gloves, and a big bouquet of mauve-tinted
flowers, tied with lavender strings. Grandmother
or not, she is still the smartest, prettiest woman
left to society since Blue Tickets drew such awful
dividing lines between what is and what only
seems to be.
Another widow at the Burdekin wedding who
attracted a lot of attention was Mrs. Mitchell.
It was her first public appearance since her widow-
hood. She looked rosy after her long stay in the
country and was as exquisitely frocked as ever in
filmy black, lavishly scattered with big jet pail-
lettes, a big black-plumed hat, pearl ear-rings and
necklet, and a new way of hairdressing that
Sydney craned at.
As far as one could see under the hat, the new
style is parted at one side. It has struck me for
some time that Sydney has been badly in want of
a leader. Since “Mrs. Willie” abdicated that
position Sydney has never ventured to alternate
its topknot with any more original style of dress-
ing, in spite of the bald—or otherwise —fact that
everyone is deadly sick of having that teapot-
handle on the brain.
Another well-frocked guest was Mrs. Geoffrey
Fairfax, in violet viole, tucked, and let in with
Cluny lace, and topped with a light hydrangea
hat. The four bridesmaids were all in white, with
big white hats; and the bride, a fair, round child-
faced girl of 19, looked just the sweetest little
wax-doll imaginable.
By. the way, one high official wedding-gift was
identical with another made at a recent big
wedding. It was a set of cameo buttons. Can it
be that as her Gracious is to the Paisley shawl, so
is his Ex. to half-a-dozen buttons ?
Which reminds me that I saw one of these
■shawls the other day. A young Sydney man’s
baby has one for its very own—gift of a godmother
who was something to a maid of honour to her Gra-
cious. The shawl is fine, grandmotherly, white wool,
with a dark blue border —in case you imagine a
red table-cover pattern, speckled with intoxicated
whirligigs.
On dit, about a Society mixed marriage, which
came off in a Catholic Church recently, that the
bridegroom’s father fled right out of Australia to
avoid the ceremony in a stained edifice among the
little images. Anyway, the wedding was kept
very quiet when it might, legitimately, have been
such a blaze.
The wedding that everybody is simmering over
now is that of Miss Harris with Doctor Carty
Salmon, fixed for Oct. 3rd. Miss Harris has been
as popular as her mother—which is saying a lot—
all through the present Mayoral regime. She is a
dark, pretty girl, with friendly unaffected
manner. Her wedding is going to be made the
occasion of a big ball at the Town Hall on the
night of the third.
Apropos of Archbishop Redwood’s burning
sermon, I hear that one of the three Govs.
one of the three, but I won’t say
which who ought to have been so mortally
wounded by the Archbishop’s utterances if they
had been uttered, described his feelings at hearing
those awful words hurled against his tympanum
as well-nigh too anguished to be endured in a
sitting position.
After that, people who have been rather inclined
to under-rate all vice-regal imagination may find
a high tribute to that elusive quality in the vivid
way that Gov. described his sufferings at hearing
words he never heard. Truly, the sacred and the
ludicrous are pathetically akin.
The Three Thousand people, who sat out that
opening of St. Mary’s sermon, had a queer quarter
of a week afterwards. On Monday they Were
confronted with an agitated stream of comment.
“ Did you ever hear anything so awful- as Arch-
bishop’s Redwood’s sermon?” (only instead of
awful read in other words that would look intem-
perate in a sober letter like this). The Three
Thousand who had been there and listened looked
stupefied. They had heard the sermon, but they
hadn’t heard this. The utterances of the Arch-
bishop were repeated to them. They looked
dazed. Speaking for myself, I knew that if ever
I listened to anything in my life I listened to that
sermon; for I sat right under the preacher’s trucu-
lent little eye, and a prickly conscience in-
duced me to believe that the eye was
specially hooked on mine, and yet I
never heard those words. To find them
reported verbatim was a nightmare not to be de-
scribed. It was like a new Restoration to find
that the Archbishop had never said ’em at all.
Only written them. And given them to a re-
porter.
The things that we say, and the things
that we write, and the things that we think—well,
Te Deum that they don’t often get mixed up in
this uncomfortable way.
I am sure that you will agree with me that not
the least sorrowful part of the affair was the way
those good, noble Three Thousand souls took off
their self-respect, and put on sackcloth, and per-
suaded themselves, mournfully, that they must
have been asleep in church.
At Mrs. J. T. Toohey’s big garden party last
Monday Archbishop Redwood came in for a lot of
inspection. Seen close, the Agitator looks far
more like a country parson with a big family than
a red-hot Roman ecclesiastic. His wide beard
and worried eye are not a bit suggestive of a
typical “ Your Grace.” Chatting with him, one
learned that he attributed this storm to his over-
courtesy in giving the Herald a full report of his
sermon instead of letting it give its own report.
Over this garden party some people demon-
strated loudly that the monopoly of bad taste had
not deserted them altogether. They made the
burning Redwood a personal matter. They
stayed at home. The Admiral, for instance, vetoed
all brass buttons from going. But Mrs. Toohey
received her hundreds of guests with her usual
gracious smile, and the “Innisfail” grounds saw
crowds of men, women, priests, and archbishops
eating strawberries and cream as though there
was no such thing as a ferment in the world.
At Tuesday’s A. J.C., Society received a severe
shock at the insouciance of a certain titled Sport.
I won’t go into details—better not. He doesn’t
belong to Sydney, but Sydney doesn’t like it all
the same.
Dorothy Vane and her brand-new bridegroom
made their first appearance in public at Saturday’s
A. J.C. The little bride was frocked in a crushed
peach-colored voile, a black satin corselet belt and
a big black-feathered hat. In answer to the usual
rush of solicitous inquiries from dear friends about
returning to the stage again some day “ Won’t
you ? ” Dolly protested more fervently than ever,
“Never !”
Mrs. Beresford Brodey must be congratulated
on her effective way of introducing her new waltz
—“Valse Royal,” Nicholson and Co. She took
Nicholson’s musical salon, invited crowds of
people, had a supper and champagne, and an
orchestra to play her waltz, and sent everybody
home in a high, good temper. I was not able to
go myself, so you will know I am speaking with-
out prejudice when I tell you that the “Valse
Royal ” is a bright thing and worth getting.
Brisbane’s loyal devotion to Lady Lamington
sometimes shows itself in very peculiar ways.
Lady Lamington is really a nice young woman,
unaffected and kind-hearted, and so unsophisti-
cated that she does not see when she is being
made a tool of. Lately she has got into the
clutches of the Brisbane Technical College, which
lives and has its being on the continuous advertis-
ing of a pushing official. So we have been treated
to the interesting information that “at a recent
examination on a course of lectures on ‘Home
Nursing,’ Lady Lamington came out second!”
As the questions in the examination on the feeble
lectures were such as might have been answered
by an intelligent child of two, it does not imply
that there was much mental strain on the part of
vice-regality.
That recalls what I heard a nurse say once.
She had been nursing at Govt. House, and voiced
her enthusiasm loudly: “Such a relief to get a
patient like Lady Blank. She doesn’t know any-
thing about her inside / ”
“Kleptomania,” I am told, is now rife at
various Brisbane shops. One very well-known
dame had to disgorge an umbrella-full of uncon-
sidered trifles at a very big sale. Those drapers
now employ a policeman at 10s. per day, and it
pays them, for the kleps’ take the hint.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Which Frenchman was it who said that the
male Anglo-Saxon race had a mania for coveting
its wife’s sister ? The chronic conjugal weakness
or is it wnconjugal ?—seems to be developing
apace in Australia, which is nowadays the Para-
dise— or is it the Sheol?—of the One that He
ought to have married. Bertie Gordon, the
Yan-Yean tragedian, didn’t even wait to lead
sister_ Mary Normoyle to the altar before dis-
covering that his heart’s desire was sister Rose,
and as circumstances had compelled him to pro-
pose for Mary he met the difficulty by committing
what the foreman of the inquest jury called a
‘dualcrime.’ That is to say, Bertie murdered
R,ose, to save her from anybody else, and slew
himself. Let us hope that the surviving spinster
is better off than she might have been had the
family tan vie gone further.
“ There has been a bit of fuss among Anglican
folk about the appointment of curate E. S. Hughes
to the post of vicar of St. Peters, E. Melb. Hughes
is a Ritualist, and the Evangelicals made a dead
set at him, but he got the billet notwithstanding.
Hughes is the tallest parson in Melbourne. He
reaches to much over six feet. He used to play a
fine game at football, and still looks capable. He
carries a great thick club with a knotted handle
when he takes nis walks abroad—probably to
protect him from designing females, as he is a
bachelor. He is likewise suspected of Radical
opinions, and is quite a live, strong, popular
fellow, who smokes, drinks, and plays games like
a human being. It is of him that the story is told
that, being ill once, four brother curates visited
him, and the five played penny nap on his bed.
Suddenly Bishop Goe poked his head in at the
door, and seeing what was going on, tactfully re-
tired saying ‘ Ah, a little prayer-meeting, I see—
I’ll wait outside till you’ve finished.’
“ Some curious developments seem to have been
incidental to the St. Peter’s election. Members
of congregation formed themselves into a corps of
Intercessionist Churchmen, bound to pray in the
church all day, from sunrise to sunset, for the ap-
pointment of a ‘ Catholic minded pastor.’ They
kept this up for 14 days, and the day before the
nomination praying proceeded for 24 hours at a
stretch. No refreshments were provided, and one
girl is said to have fainted from exhaustion,
through having to pray overtime, owing to the
relief-party not coming to time.
“ Mr. Hughes (who, by the way, goes chanting
hymns about the street, with a torclilight proces-
sion of surpliced followers) is a nephew of Janet
Lady Clarke. His brother, Major Hughes, has
just been made Mayor of St. Kilda. so that the
Clarke coterie is very much in evidence now, even
if you don’t reckon in S’Rupert’s luck at Rand-
wick.
“ Since the refining influence of the pretty type-
writer has been withdrawn (through marriage) the
office of the popular Mr. ‘ Jim ’ Moloney, M.L. A.,
has been anything but a temple of harmony. On
his return from his honeymoon Jim and his
managing clerk, Wiggins, said rude things to one
another, and from high words came to blows,
Wiggins being knocked out in the second round.
After llsec. Wiggins attacked his employer
with a lump of quartz from Glenfine No. 1, but
failed to score, and had recourse to the office pen-
knife, with which he settled the M.L.A. in
the third round. Mr. Maloney is now suffering a
recovery, and Mr. Wiggins is meditating over
legal and illegal points, such as penknives, in
prison. Why a friendship of 17 years should have
terminated so abruptly is a wonder on all sides.
“ On Sept. 10 the Metrop. Liedertafel gave one
of its meritorious but depressing concerts. Not
only is there a skeleton in the cupboard—viz.,
Marshall Hall as conductor of the rival society—
but the greybeards in its own choir wear slowly
but surely away and its programme is usually sad-
dened by the obituary notice of some staunch old
member. Young singers seem more drawn to the
opposition shop.
“At the concert Janet Lady Clarke, looking
quite young and blooming in spite of pure white
marabout trimmings, occupied one of the seats of
the mighty with Surgeon Fitzgerald’s bright-faced,
clever daughters not far off.
Among the performers, stout, dark Miss Mary
Conly, in be-sequined black, sang feelingly and
responded to a true-blue recall. Next day but
one (Sept. 12th) the singer was married at the
Australian Church and is now Mrs. John Jarrett.
Old-maid warblers seem rare as blue carnations.
Miss Conly came originally from the country, and
while climbing the path to metropolitan popu-
larity and profit worked hard as vocalist in a
suburban church choir.
Pianiste Una Bourne, in her pale gold curls and
faint-blue frock, looked ethereal, but sounded
rather hard and unsympathetic—a bit of a har-
monious blacksmith. Singer Gregor Wood, whose
contribution to a down-hearted programme was
“the Sailor’s Grave,” annexed a moustache while
at ’Ome, thereby parting with his once cherished
resemblance to Gov. Hopetoun. The latter, ’tis
said, looks a shade “older in the tooth” than of
yore.
“ In Melbourne, Nance O’Neil was indeed chary
of letting anyone catch a free glimpse of her.
Does the cute Yankee believe the old doctrine,
‘familiarity breeds contempt’? Anyhow, she
always employed the same cabman, and even he
only caught sight of a cloaked, veiled figure.
When Nance went to get ‘ tried on ’
for the Fedora dresses, proceedings were
conducted with the utmost secresy in a
specially-fitted-up room and in the presence
of the operator only. Later, the customer wanted
some more garments of a less pretentious nature,
and the modiste-in-chief prepared to depart,
meaning to send in an under-study. The flutterer,
however, refused to allow another pair of eyes to
light upon her, and Madame had to com-
plete the contract herself. Sojourning at Menzies’
Hotel, Nance always had her face in her muff
when she met fellow-boarders on the stairs, which
ostentatious terror so upset nervous encounterers
that they spent half their time, so they say, dodg-
ing the Stage Sensitive Plant. And yet at Ade-
laide Nance is actually dining out.
“ The Cafe-chantant at the Children’s Hospital
bazaar is lovely to look at but a dull, proper sort
of place. If anyone whispers or a spoon tinkles
while M’sieu’ Boffard, with velvet trouser-panels
and moire coat-revers, warbles of ‘Ze bleshes on
Marie’s sheek,’ the Naice houris, with Alsatian
bows atop, eye the rioter austerely. T’other
night Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis’ elocution pupils took
the boards. One of them, Miss Rix, a fine, hand-
some girl, has got off all sorts of pretty looks and
ways quite pat, but somehow she’s a sort of hollow
mould exactly like her teacher, only without Mrs.
Lewis’ inside. I believe Australians are such
good mimics that they won’t shine as actresses.
All these girls reproduce their models with madden-
ing monotony. In the Cafe, Mrs. Geo. Chirnside
trots round selling Melba’s autograph portraits,
contributed to the bazaar by the Original through
‘ dear Lord Richard.’ One brought £4O. In an-
other, one may still take 2d. chances. The Duke
of York raised £l7. On letter-carriers’ night, at
the Bazaar, one gathered that postmen are not
expert lady-killers. Had to dance with one another,
’cause girls weren’t taking any, and two men
would wrestle for the possession of ‘ a mother of
six,’ the only she-partner available.
“ The Cafe Chantant people, who really repre-
sent the cream of Society, remained at their tea-
tables and posts last week, denying themselves
the usual Sydney race-spree. A swagger dame
declared she had never so immolated herself on
the altar of Charity before.
“That delightfully uncommonplace man, Mr.
Byron Moore, has made another interesting con-
tribution to the Children’s Hospital Fund. The
demand for his fairy-story of the Converted Imp
induced him to publish a booklet of ‘l2 double
chants,’ composed by himself, and he is present-
ing 2000 copies thereof to the Hospital Com-
mittee. Cautious persons who like to try their
chants before they buy (the price is 12 a shilling
or one penny per double) can sample them at St.
Paul’s Cathedral, where they are now in use. By
the way, the V.R.C. Club s secretary s devotional
music issues from Allan and Co.
“ When this is printed, Miss Yance, daughter
of the Anglican Dean, will be married (ceremony at
Cathedral, Sept. 18th) to young Mr. Ramsden, of
Hew. All the Dean’s daughters are pretty and
coquettish, and his sons enjoy a sort of parochial
reputation for practical jokes. Before Dean Yance
attained his present eminence, he was rector of
Hew, with the result that his children have pretty
well licked clean the Hew platter of eligibles.
“ There are feebler compositions on the market
than ‘Violet’s Waltz,’ a danceable little piece, by
Gladys M. Ure, just published by Beckett,
Collins-street. The pretty composer, whose photo,
adorns the wrapper, is the daughter of the Vio.
Operatic Society’s conductor, and her age is
stated at ‘ only 15.’
“The Findon Harriers’ Hunt Club meeting,
fixed for Saturday, 22nd inst., promises to be
c[uite as toney as usual this year. Several fours-
m-hand will make an imposing procession from
Government House to the course, with the
Maddens to the fore. And the Ladies’ Bracelet
Stakes, which is worth a £lOO bauble to the woman
who nominates the winner (Mrs. George Moir was
the lucky one last year), will bring forth a gold-
mounted riding whip for the jockey. S’Rupert
Clarke provides the whip and will make the pre-
sentation.
"V ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL.


SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
Largest and Best Company in the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The Reports of the State Insurance Departments show that the Mutual Life of New York
had, on December 31, 1899,
Larger Total Assets
A Greater Gain in Assets during the Year
A Larger Total Income and
Larger Amount paid to Policyholders
than any other Company.
ASSETS, at end of 1899, £61,980,398.
Policies include Insurance, Investment, and Trusteeship, as required. Write for particulars, giving
name, address and date of birth, to “The Manager,”at any of the undermentioned Branch Offices.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Br anch Offices :
SYDNEY— ‘Company’s Building, Martin Place.
MELBOURNE—2B9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE —210 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—73 King William Street.
PERTH— St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART —93 Macquarie Street.
The old difficulty of insuring valuables against
fire and burglars has come up again. It is, however
becoming an acknowledged fact that it is impossible to
arrange a satisfactory insurance. The Sydney Safe De-
posit has overcome the difficulty by offering to secure to
insurers the articles themselves in their fire and burglar
proof vaults, and thus, by the payment of a comparatively
small premium in the way of rent, avoiding all possibility
of loss. The system is most interesting, and the manage-
ment invite a call for inspection. The Safe Deposit is
situated at the hack of Paling’s, off George-street.*
HATS. HATS. HATS.
Mountcastle & Quaitis
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise tne
trade. All the newest shapes htted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ The oldest comic paper in Australia ” is
now edited by a Sunday-school teacher.
Treasurer Shiels is the most unpopular of
all Vie. politicians with the reporters. He prac-
tises unnecessary secrecy, and has the manners
of the Great Mogul.
Private Kruyger, the Westralian who was
reported “recommended for the Victoria Cross,”
has got on to the lecture platform, beginning in
Kalgoorlie Theatre Royal.
Marconi, the wireless-telegraph man, has
now an assistant in Australia, displaying the prac-
tical working and advantage of the process. He
has begun his demonstrations at Adelaide.
If the feminine newspaper’s presentation
to Baden-Powell does not quickly take place many
subscribers will be asking their money back. The
gas is literally squirting out of the Powell balloon.
David Syme has again taken a leaf out of
the Abgus, and now runs a daily “ Personalities”
column in the Age. The Akgus column deals
mainly with the dead and dying, and is locally
known as “The Sick-List.”
Affirmed positively, and denied as strongly
(though the negative is difficult to prove), that
Boer General De Wet was a Charterhouse boy.
If true, he nicely balances Baden-Powell, who
certainly did study at the great school.
Isaiah Reginald Cohen, who seeks to
enter the House of Representatives for a Sydney
constituency, is identical with the author of that
famous novel, “How Will it End?” the first
edition of which opens with the amazing intima-
tion that “ The scene of iny novel lays in Sydney.”
“Banjo” Patterson, when in Melbourne,
said that General Hutton gave his staff a very bad
time. He was always on the go, and gave nobody
any rest. He broke down nearly all his officers,
and, says “the Banjo,” as one after another went
under their ailments became known by the name
of “ Curlyitis ” —Hutton being curly.
Paris Nesbit, Q.C., when not bringing
hopeless lawsuits on his own account, is conduct-
ing other people’s cases, and generally winning
them. It is possibly a symptom of his excitable
nature that he constantly takes snuff in court, this
being the only nerve-tonic allowed there. The
Lord Chief-Justice of England, just dead, was
addicted to the same old-fashioned habit.
“ Billy ” Lambie, the Age man killed in
the S’African war, was the scribe to whom the late
Dorothy Vane—at least, the Vane is late though
the Dorothy isn’t —confided her intention of life-
long celibacy. Lambie was too old a pressman to
take the protestations of the fair Dolly seriously,
but he knew good copy when he saw it, and
rpshed half-a-column into next day’s Age.
South Australia has put up another re-
cord : Of its leading lawyers who have taken silk
three—Kingston, Symon, and Nesbit—are on the
democratic side in politics ; in fact, now that the
brainy and courageous J. H. Symon has seen the
light, they are on the radical side. And only
John Downer is on the other. But of the minor
Q.C.’s Tories claim two out of three, leaving Gor-
don only to the Liberals.
that Walter Hely-Hutchison will
shortly be made a peer for having been Governor
of Natal during the war. This fortunate person-
age learned the business of a Governor in Sydney
under Hercules Robinson, from ’72 to ’75. His
HE WASN’T TAKING ANY.
PAT: “ Ye didn’t shtop long at the party lasht
noight, Mick!”
MICK : “ Whoi shud I? Divil a thing there was
to dhrink hut beer — an’ that teas all gone !”
mentor taught him to make use of the press in his
upward career; and the young man began by con-
tributing letters to London D.T., in which deli-
cate compliments were paid to Hercules.
Wm. Robinson, in 1864 M.L.A. for North
Melbourne in Vic. Parliament, has petitioned the
House to grant him better fare than he is now re-
ceiving at the Benevolent Asylum, of which he is
an inmate. Mr. Robinson states he occupies a
sheetless bed in a crowded ward, his diet, morning
and evening, being dry bread and tea only. As
the unfortunate gentleman arrived in 1853, surely
the Old Colonists’ Association should do some-
thing for him !
“G. 8.” ; Bulletin par. (Sept. 8) states
that John Pascoe Fawkner’s father was “a
V.D.L. first-fleeter.” So he was, but not in the
sense evidently implied by the writer. He was a
soldier, and afterwards a pensioner. I remember
the old bird well. Always had his hair powdered,
and wore a queue, knee-breeches, stockings and
buckled shoes. A wonderful old swell, he moved
through the Hobart streets like a steel engraving
in an old 18th century magazine.
Charles Gavan Duffy delighted in sticking
gins into his friends. When travelling with Tom
arlyle in a coach in Ireland in ’47, a young bride
and her husband sat opposite to them in a coach.
The Sage of Chelsea talked as was his wont.
During the stop for dinner the lady asked Duffy,
“Who is that conceited old fool who won’t let
anyone else get in a word edgeways?” Duffy
repeated this to Carlyle. It made Thomas very
sad, and Duffy chuckled fit to choke himself for
the rest of the day.
Mortimer Franklyn, the man who, years
ago, practically ruined one of the Hentys by
dragging him into the proprietorship of the long-
defuncffFEDEEAL Australian and Melb. World,
is dead. He passed out in London, where he had
long been a successful life-assurance drummer. As
a canvasser, Franklyn was “gilt-edged.” He was
a man of more or less mystery, and was believed
to have originally hailed from America. Some of
his enemies circumstantially declared that he had
been a barber.
“ Lex ” : Concerning an able man whose
portion has not been limelight but shadow :
Few men have left a more silently powerful impress on
Vic. legislature than the unassuming and acute Parlia-
mentary draughtsman, Oarlile. Few realise how, quite
apart from technique, a draftsman’s personality, narrow
minded or the reverse, affects for ill or good the legal
future of a statute. The draftsman is, of course, the
scapegoat of muddling member and flippant journalist,
but one has to calculate the cubic content of the men-
tality of many of those whose names head bills, before
one realises how really few are the imperfections of a man
like Garble, who has to use their incoherencies and lick
them into shape.
Prof. Ernest Haeckel, of Jena University,
author of “ The Pedigree of Man,” “ The Missing
Link,” and numerous other books about our
ancestors, has lately been in Java on a scientific
mission, and is now in Melbourne, where lie will
make a stay before returning to Europe. Haeckel
is an eminent free-thinker, and one of his best
books was the work which the late Dr. Aveling
did into English for Mrs. Besant’s “Library of
Science and Free Thought” years ago. He is
likely to have more than a private welcome in
Melbourne.
Father Plunkett, who died last week in
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Sydney, was a few years
ago regarded as the next Lord Fingall, his brother
being old and childless and in bad health. Father
Plunkett was himself well over 60, but speculation
was rife as to whether he would return to England
and take over the barony. The gilt has been off
the title for many years but it commands a seat in
the Lords and might be nursed back to affluence.
Just, however, as these probabilities were becom-
ing interesting the sickly elder- brother was an-
nounced father of an heir. Father Plunkett held
a commission in the army before joining the
priesthood.
“Vril”: Re Donald Coutts Gordon (8.,
8/9/’00). I know Centralia well, and I never heard
of D.C.G. in connection with Mt. Morgan.
“Sandy” Gordon was the lord of the golden,
rocky, grass-tree ridge, now known as Mt. Mor-
gan ; and he was certainly married, for I remem-
ber, in Mt. Morgan township, in ’9l or’92, hearing
the outspoken disgust of Frank Lincoln (who was
giving performances in the town) at the scurviness
of the wealthy co. in allowing Mrs. Gordon (Sandy’s
widow) to earn her bread by laundrying for the
co.’s employes. As late as ’99, one of Sandy’s
sisters was hotel-keeping 2 miles out of M.M.
township.
The construction of Mt. Alexander rail-
way (Vic.) in the late Fifties and early Sixties
put two men on their feet and en-
abled them to play a prominent part
in political life —the late Thomas
M‘llwraith (Q.) and W. A. Zeal. The
latter is now a knight and President of
Vic. Leg. Council. The pair were
supervising engineers for contiguous
sections of the line. At the death of
J. V. A. Bruce, of the firm of con-
tractors which built the 120-mile
railway for £26,000 a mile with the
aid of the banks, Zeal was made
his chief executor. In the litiga-
tion which ensued over vast claims
for extras the leading executor was
greatly helped in bringing matters
to a successful issue by obtaining
a seat in Vic. Leg. Assembly.
About the same time M‘llwraith
was beaten in a contest for Bendigo.
The Bank of Victoria, with Henry
Miller chairman of directors, and
the Colonial Bank, with John
O’Shanassy in a like position, got
good pickings out of the contract.
O’Shanassy was also the Premier who projected
the railway.
The gay Paris Nesbit uses his new paper
for frankly printing this kind of thing. Extract:
To Paris From Vera.
O thou most lordly Knight!
Methinks ’twere worth a thousand deaths, the fires of hell
itself,
To stand in proud surrender ’neath thine eyes’ quick-
leaping flame,
To hear thy voice with worship-laden words oppressed,
To feel thy kiss—ah ! love ! with reeling brain
I seek the haven of thine arms,
Dizzied with utmost pain of bliss and passion’s mystic
law.
Vera.
Will Vera send me her full name and address? Of
course, in confidence.
Of course !
STUDIOS
FOR
ENLARGEMENTS
Kingston talks enticingly of his social
experiences in England. Once he paraded at a
big function between the Countess of Warwick
and the Duchess of Sutherland —two of the love-
liest women among the nobility. Another time
he sat between Lord Salisbury and Lord Hope-
toun talking familiarly of Australian democracy.
Yet again he had as right and left-hand com-
panions the. late Lord Chief Justice Russell and
Bishop Creighton of London—to whom he quoted
Bulletin verse. He thinks great things of Cham-
berlain, Kimberley, and Carrington, but was not
at all impressed with Rosebery, who disguises his
genius, if he possesses any.
H.G. ” ; to The Bulletin :
The correspondent who recently accused Father Dunn
of the honor of assisting in Peter Lalor’s escape, probably
confused him with Father Smythe, one of the diggers’
most powerful allies during the stormy days of ’oi. It
was the grossly-unjust treatment meted out to. Father
Smythe’s groom that was one of the prominent causes of
the Eureka fight. After the fight, Lalor, under cover
of darkness, dragged his way to the hut of a friendly
settler, who hid him despite the £2OO reward, and finally
conveyed him to the residence of Father S., just in time
to avoid the troopers who arrived to search the hut. At
Smythe’s house, Lalor’s wounded arm was amputated,
and on convalescence he was carted in a covered waggon
to Miss Dunn’s house in Geelong. On the road, which
was dotted every half-mile with reward notices, Lalor had
several narrow escapes. One of two swaggies who
recognised him a few miles out of Geelong told his mate
he was going for the £2OO, but the mate, sympathising
with Lalor, promptly made his companion drunk and
kept him in that condition till the diggers’ leader was safe
in Geelong.
Twenty-five years ago F. B. Suttor, now
at loggerheads with N.S.W. Leg. Council, won
liis first Parliamentary seat. For eight years he
devoutly followed Parkes, going in and out of
office with the old manoeuvrer. Soon after he
embraced Jennings. Then he linked with Dibbs.
Soon after this he visited Europe and brought
back a brand of the most robust Protection. Mr.
Suttor is 61 years of age, and is son of William
Henry Suttor,. a member of N.S.W. first Respon-
sible Parliament and of the Leg. Council that
preceded it. He devotes nearly as much time to
the breeding of sheep as to politics. He has held
Ministerial office under Parkes, Jennings, Dibbs
and Lyne. The present Ministry would have
liked to give him the Speakership, but found it
inconvenient or impossible. So (the thing is no
secret) they promised him the reversion of the
Council Presidentship.
A short while before the late Prof.
Pearson joined the literary staff of Melb.
Age, proprietor David Syme had it in
contemplation to make a sufficiently
liberal offer to the late Chief-Justice
Higinbotham (then at the bar)
to induce him to exchange his
practice for the Age editor-
ship. The offer was not made,
and in any case it could not
have come to anything, be-
cause Higinbotham would have
stipulated for untrammelled
control, and David would
not grant that even to the
Archangel Gabriel.
Speakers of Vic. Leg. As-
sembly, past and present,
number eight, five of whom
still live, the defunct being
Francis Murphy, Peter Lalor,
and Charles M‘Mahon. Mur-
phy (whose father, John
Murphy, was keeper of Cork
County gaol) began his Aus-
tralian career as a N.S.W.
road-super, his district
being Goulburn. He served
as Speaker 14 years and 2
months. Charles M‘Mahon
served (i years and 48 days.
C. G. Duffy (a pensioner)
had 2 years, 8 months and
17 days of office. Peter
Lalor (who nevei made
money) had 7 years, 2
months and 1 week. M.
H. Davies (who boomed
much money) had 4
years, 2 months and 25
days. Tom Bent (whose
money, if any, came
from market-gardening)
had 2 years and 4
months less 5 days.
Graham Berry (who
never saved money)
had nearly 3 years of
office, and F. C.
Mason who came in
October, 1897, still
holds office. Five
of the occupants
of the office were
bebaubled as
knights. Lalor
and Bent re-
fused the
cheap frill of
K.C.M.G.-ship
while Mason’s
turn hasn’t come
yet.
The magnificent
scale on which Barnum-
Powell advertises is indi-
cated by last week’s cable
stating that the Boers had
captured a cart containing 2000
acknowledgments of congratulations
sent him re Mafeking.
Robert Sellar, the old Yic. identity, who
lately died at Melbourne, seized several passing
chances with both hands, but missed one of his
best and greatest. He and his partner (Premier)
James M‘Culloch owned Mt. Gipps sheep-station,
in far-west N.S.W., what time Broken Hill was
discovered on it. Neither Sellar norM'Culloch
would have anything to do with the mining
gamble ; but their manager, George M‘Culloch,
specked enough to send him home to a well-gilded
retirement in England. Curiously enough, not
one of the owners of the three big holdings on
which the Barrier field is spread made anything
out of the discoveries, while men on stations just
outside—Bowes Kelly, Brodribb, Harvey Patter-
son, and others—minted millions.
Apropos the recent death' of Robert
Sellar, of M‘Culloch, Sellar and Co. M‘Culloch,
as the world knows, was identical with the old-
time Vic. Premier, and the firm, it was alleged,
made a big haul by knowing that the protectionist
tariff of ’66 was going to be introduced by its
head. Edward Langton taxed M‘Culloch with
this in the Leg. Assembly several years after-
wards, but the proofs submitted were, fairly or
unfairly, held by a docile majority to be
unconvincing. The late J. G. Francis, importer
and Minister of Customs in the McCul-
loch Govt., also, it was averred, reaped a harvest
by knowing that the protectionist tariff was
coming, and that if the Bill to give it effect was
thrown out by the Upper House it would be
tacked to the Appropriation Bill—all of which
happened.
Wanted, a Public Defender ! Writes
“ Burjragorang ” from up North :
Queensland barrister , whose death in Brisbane
Hospital about six months ago was referred to at the time
in Tub Bulletin, though in his latter days a pauper and
totally neglected by the profession, received one of the
largest funerals ever seen in Brisbane. In March, ’9B, at
the Criminal sittings of Brisbane Supreme Court, I was
present when he appeared to defend a boy charged with a
capital offence upon a dumb girl of 9, and the man’s ap-
pearance at the counsel table paralysed me. He wore a
dirty cotton shirt with the two first neck-buttons missing ;
a pair of God-forgotten pants, fastened in front with two
safety-pins; odd boots, very dilapidated, and fastened
with twine; a gray wig, minus one tail, and an unclean and
ragged gown. His nose was one mass of large watery
pimples, and his blue eyes were fiery and bloodshot. His
“ cross-examination ” was a piteous absurdity, and several
times he was courteously called to order by Judge Beal.
The man’s address to the jury was a mere incoherence to
which the Crown Prosecutor made no reply, and which
the Judge ignored when summing up. The jury said
“ Guilty ” without leaving the box, and poor shuffled
out into the nearest pub. Two other cases I heard him
“ defend,” and both resulted in convictions. Think what
chance an impecunious prisoner can have when he is pro-
secuted by an able lawyer whose case has been worked up
by police, detectives, Crown Law Office, and plenty of
Treasury money, and he is “ defended” like this !


MACONOCHIE’S
PACK EACH YEAR MORE
FISH THAN ALL OTHER
BRITISH FISH PRESERVERS
COMBINED.
FrcSb Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Herrings iO Tornato Satire
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s, per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
This Hotel has popularised hotel-living in Australia.
During our enervating summer, the cool and ele-
gant drawing rooms, the charmingly - arranged
dining room, the readiness and perfection of the
attendance, and the splendid appointments of the
Hotel throughout, prove a boon and blessing to
visitors. The Hotel is so loftily-built and situated
that residents sleep in a distinct atmosphere—a cool
light air, entirely free from the dust and impurity
of the city.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
Solemn slab from a Pearson’s Weekly
(London) original story :
At Sydney, whilst waiting for the English boat, they
had made the acquaintance of Clement White. Seated
on the hotel verandah after dinner and looking out on
the glorious bay, he had bent across Mrs. Featherston-
haugh with a sudden “ Excuse me ” to kill a snake which
had found shelter in the folds of her dress.
This sort of thing is quite common in new-chum
circles. The sort of man who, when the remit-
tances ease off, wears a loud check suit and a cap
of ditto all round the clock, often sees snakes in
ladies’ laps. Also he sees ’em in his own lap,
even at the most fashionable hotels.
* * * *
“ Cecil P.” : A friend of mine recently
sent by rail in N.S.W. a live sheep to a chum
living but a few stations away—carriage payable
on delivery. Recipient duly took delivery of the
“mutton,” but protested against the high charge
for carria-ge. Later on he received this letter in
explanation :
Sir,—ad it bin ded i wood ave chargd it has meet but
been alife with coller an chane i axcess it like eny other
dog.
Yours obedent servent
Stashun marster.
And the Public Service Board holds competitive
examinations!
* * » *
A few figures to show what brains and
irrigation can do in the Australian inlands.
W. O. Mitting, in 1895, had four acres of vines 20
miles from the head-water at Mildura. First
year he got £l5 13s. fid. for his crop ; by ’9B it had
reached £B2; last year each acre returned £l7l.
And on account of his distance back there is water
in.Mitting’s channels only three times a year.
Mitting is a groom tw trade ; here is a record of a
lord —Deramore. He has 62 acres under vines at
Renmark; last year they gave 80 tons of raisins,
worth £35 a ton.
* * * *
Some years ago a * ‘ creamy ” named
M‘Dougall killed a white man on Wellingrove
(Q.) and when he saw the police coming deliber-
THE WEST IS FULL OF INFORMATION.
JACKAROO (on high post, after many questions): “If I were to attwact
his attention from your gaze what would he the result?”
LASSO TED : “His blanky head would come off.”
JACKAROO : "By George, that would he dweadful!”
ately shot himself. (By the way, suppose the
Breelong niggers, when cornered, do the same,
how would the reward go ?) This M‘Dougall was
the reputed son of a squatter, and his wife, still
alive, is the reputed daughter of another squatter
who got a handle before he died. M’Dougall’s
mother was a full nigger named Maryanne and
was queen of Bonshaw. Perhaps it was this com-
bination of “blue” and royal blood that gave
M‘Dougall pluck enough to kill himself.
* * * *
Letter written by a N.S.W. boy of nine to
Sir Red vers Buller :
Dear genral,
How does South Africa Agree with you. I want to
know when the war will be over, will you write over to
me when it will end as I have a brother their. Also his
name is Corporal B . If you know him he belongs to
the Second continget. I hope you get thoru with your
men and how is Badon Powell and Lord Roberts -and all
the British Leaders and yourself. I hope you will write
and tell me the news and are you going to fight the china-
men, I hope you dont or Bobs. Is your name general as
I have wrote it and will you give this letter to Bobs to
read and get it from him again. If you see Corporal B
tell him we are all well. I look in the war headings in
the paper every day to see the news. It must be cold
over in South Africa. I hope you will kill Kruger soon,
and hope peace will be Declared. The»e is a terrble war
in China now. We have 9 children with my Brother in
the war. Our people are going to give Baden-Powell two
charges and I think they ought to give you one to for
your hard graft. I am 9 years old and lam going to
ville School and lam going to college after. I think
I have told you everything and I hope you come back
safely yours truly
* * * ♦
It is common talk in the country that old
bulls, played-out at station and other studs and
trucked to town, are bought by contractors who
supply Govt, asylums. The worker’s final lot :
bull beef and a pauper’s grave.
* * * *
A Federal meeting, near Malcolm (W.A.),
was made unanimous by the prompt action of the-
chairman. The only opposition came from an
ebrious person, who wanted to move amend-
ments and things ; and, becoming annoyed at the
chairman’s firmness, referred to him as a person
of much blankiness ; whereupon the Chair arose
and smote the interrupter on the jaw and, re-
suming his seat, said : “ The amendment is with-
drawn, and we will now vote on the motion.”
* * • *
Apropos of what recently happened at
Singleton, N.S.W., to the “lively” corpse which
cheated coioner and jury of their fees. Some
years ago a Chinaman was supposed to have died
at Clunes, Vic., and when everything was ready
for the funeral, the cataleptic Chow came round
and lost no time getting to work in his garden.
The undertaker called for his fee, but John
refused to pay for the coffin, which he had already
begun to use as a pig-trough.
Beautiful country Queensland is just now.
In Aramac they are getting up salt-junk from
Rockhampton and paying 7|d. a lb. for it. Glad to
get it too.
* » * »
“ Dixie ” upon bloodhounds :
Re use of bloodhounds as criminal-trackers. My expe-
rience in Southern States of U.S.A., both in breeding
bloodhounds and in using them to “ track,” is that, no
matter how pure the breed, a bloodhound is useless for
following up criminals unless he has been trained to that
sort of thing from puppyhood. Also, a hound that has
been trained to follow the scent of colored persons only is
comparatively useless after whites. On the place where I
gained my experience we kept hounds for both kinds of
“ game.” It is quite a mistake to think that a blood-
hound will, without training, run the trail of a human
being merely upon being allowed to smell some article of
apparel recently worn by the fugitive. There may be ex-
ceptions to the rule, but 1 have not come across one. In
fact, to make a hound thus useful means a lot of trouble ;
and even then, a highly-trained “man-hunter” is not
nearly as ferocious as is supposed. I remember once
being with a party tracking up a desperate nigger-con-
vict and murderer. The bloodhound was a splendid
tracker (it was through canebrakes), and used to follow
the scent a long way ahead of us. Then We could hear
him bay, and presently he would come back to us. The
nigger used to wait until the dog came up to him, and
then (as we found out afterwards) would pat him on the
head. The dog would then, after going a little way with
the fugitive, return to us. At last, an experienced mem-
ber of the party slit the muzzle of the hound with a knife,
so that the dog got the taste of blood. The nigger didn’t
pat him on the head next time, but took to a tree pretty
sudden.
“Cecil P.” :
Some years ago there
was, near Lachlan
(N.S.W.), asix-legged
sheep. Two of the
legs grew from the
shoulders and the
extra feet were af-
fected by footrot,
though they never
touched the ground.
Seems to prove that
the rot is a disease of
the system.
* * *
“ Fancy Free ” :
Maoriland Factory
Act permits men em-
ployed in sawmills,
etc., to work only 48
hours per week.
Accidents have to be
reported to factory-
inspector, and the
safeguards to the
worker are many.
The Act is strictly
enforced in towns;
in the country, it is
unknown, and 64
hours’ work per week
is the average. The
old cry: “Young
man, go into the
country ! ” And work
longer hours, take
greater risks and less
pay ! Factory-hands
don’t seem to hang
well enough together to form a union.
* * * •
“Trotter” on coaching in W. Queens-
land :
Trekked recently by coach from Longreach to Winton,
125 miles. The big, heavy coach was laden with parcels,
boxes, mails, horse-feed, &c., with passengers to fill up
the corners. We left Longreach at 6 a.m. and struck a
miserable shanty at 11 for dinner and change horses —a
20 miles run—and 24 miles further on we again changed
horses. At 5 p.m. we stopped for two hours at an “ idle
hut” to await the coach from Winton, and when it
arrived we exchanged horses, taking back those of the
other coach—poor brutes !—that had already done their
20 miles. We took five hours to cover that 20 miles—Bo
miles in 18 hours. At 7 o’clock next morning we started
again, arriving at our destination at 3 p.m. I was an
“ inside,” and as the bottom of the coach and under the
seats was occupied by bags of corn, you had either to rest
your chin on your knees or put your feet in your oppo-
site’s lap. Fancy sitting thus for 15 hours, gazing at a
barren wilderness strewn with decaying carcases of sheep,
cattle, horses, and marsupials. Charge for all this joy-
only 40s.
* * * *
“Trotter ” : Recently made a round of the
numerous Townsville (N.Q.) hotels, and in no
instance did I find a white man or woman em-
ployed in the kitchen. Sometimes Chows, and
sometimes Japs. ; the grooms or knock-about men
being mostly also Japs. Kanakas on sugar-plan-
tations, Chows and Japs, as cooks, &c., blacks
and Chows on stations, Chows as gardeners,
storekeepers, laundry-keepers, and contractors.
Australia for the Australians !
* * * •
“Winding Engine”: Considering the
habitual recklessness of men engaged in shaft-
sinking, it is marvellous that accidents are not
more numerous. I have many a time pulled 500 ft.
to the surface (at full speed), standing on the edge
of an empty bucket, a man who, instead of having
given the proper signal, “Man on—heave up
steady,” had knocked “Heave up; mullock.”
Some men actually pride themselves upon their
ability to ride a bucket travelling at lightning-
speed. Then, again, there is the brand of fool
who is in such a hurry to get his mullock out of
the way that he heaps the bucket up in the cen-
tre, with the result that if the travelling load
bumps the sides of the shaft or catches under a
piece of timber, down goes a shower of broken
rock.
* * * *
“T.G.F.”: Apropos a recent discussion.
Have never known a horse to vomit, but have
seen an expiring horse occupy his last moments
in taking a good tuck-in of chaff.”
“ Rex ” :
Re the notion
that much hat
wearing con-
duces to bald-
ness, Austra-
lian bush-
residents
(who mostly
wear their
hats from sun-
rise to sunset)
are hairier
“on top”—
age for age—
than city resi-
dents. Can
anyone eluci-
date ?
* *
At a recent
bush wedding
the bride, in
order that her
dress might
not be soiled,
gathered the
foot of it
round her
waist, left the
bridegroom to
settle ac-
counts with
the parson,
and joined her
friends. In-
stead of going
round by the
gate, all the
ladies climb-
BELOW THE BELT.
MISTRESS (to dismissed servant): “I cannot give you a character, Bridget.”
SERVANT: “ No! Don’t s’pose ye can spare any, mum.”
ed over athree-railed fence, exhibiting much
lingerie in doing so, and began to wade along the
muddy road towards home. When the bride-
groom left the church, he calmly filled his pipe,
lighted it, and, hands in pockets, leisurely fol-
lowed with the men folk.
* * * *
The usual Hayseed had made his appear-
ance in Melbourne, “ down for the show.” He
was a long, angular man looking like a hard-case
who had received religion late in life and found it
disagreeing with him. He was from far-out, and
was particular in exacting assurances that the
coffee-palace was run on strictly Rechabite prin-
ciples before engaging his rooms. He had been
visiting friends in the suburbs on the first evening,
and reached the house late. Presently he was
heard roaring down the stairs for the “ Lan’lord,”
and the wrathful manager went up to him with
warlike intentions. ‘ ‘ Didn’t you tell me this
was a respectable teetotal house ? ” thundered
Hayseed. “ I did,” said the manager ; “and it is
—much too respectable to allow you to raise such
an unholy row at this hour.” “Now,” said the
bucolic, impressively, “you can’t fool me”—here
he pointed sternly to the rows of boots before the
bedroom-doors. “You have the face to tell me
this is a teetotal place, an’ not a blessed man on
this floor dares to sleep in the same room with his
boots ! ”
* * * *
Advt. displayed in a bush township 40
miles from Sydney :
“W L , Hairdresser, &e., &c. Hair cut,
shaving! Corn cutting done. Saws sharpened. Axes
ground. N.B.—No moisture on feet when come for corn
cutting. Pots and pans mended, &c.”
* * * *
At a Nor’ West Australian station, up
Roebourne way, a white man recently had a row
with a blackfellow and received a bite on the chin,
whereupon in return he bit the black’s nose clean
off ! The white cannibal got two months “ hard.”
* * * *
In Victoria the lyre-bird
is absolutely “protected,” and
unless a similar course is taken
in N.S.W. the menura will soon
be extinct in the j rovince. In
Sydney, the other day, a man
was selling “lyre’’-tails by the
score, at 4s. each.
* * •
“Rex”: Curious that
during the recent Hawkesbury
flood not a wild duck or other
water-bird was seen; whereas,
during the ’67 flood, and several
other minor “risings,” the
Hawkesbury was thronged with
wild-fowl. And not long since (in
dry weather) ducks abounded
—when they weren’t needed.
A Mount M‘Donald bul-
locky has a team of 6 polled bul-
locks—black leaders, named
Cronje and Kruger, red pin
bullocks Sankey and Moody, and
brindled polers Butler and
Deeming.
Foreman of jury giving verdict at a recent
inquest on a N.S.W. bakblox suicide : “ We find,
yer Worship, that the death of the said corpse were
due to natural causes, inflicted by his own hand
whilst in the ‘ horrors ’ —to wit, a razor.” Solemn
fact.
• *
“Wat Tell ” : I hadn't “got ’em again ”
when I saw more than 200 ’possums up one tree.
In a paddock in which the recently-cut wheat-
crop was in stooks there stood a solitary yellow
box-tree, and coming across this paddock
with a mate, one morning about 1 o’clock,
we heard ’possums scampering from every direc-
tion towards the tree. It was bright moonlight,
and out of curiosity we stopped and counted—and
there were 203 ’possums in that tree.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, — Be stockwhip artists
(“5.5.,” B. 4/7/’00): Knew a man in N.W. Tas.
who could stand facing a dead wall, his toes within
3in. of it, and crack a 12ft. whip all round his
head, and back and front of him without shifting
ground. Sounds easy, but try it, ye show stock-
men. He could flick a feather from behind each
ear, and another from between his teeth, with the
fluff of the lash in three turns of his wrist; or toss
two raw spuds in the air ana halve ’em before
they fell, with a lightning left and right. An
18ft. thong was a plaything to him in either hand,
and when he got properly going after a refractory
beast it sounded like a chinkie festival, and you
couldn’t distinguish the circus for bull’s wool.
Peel an apple ? Why, he’d skin an old-man rhi-
noceros in 15 minutes and never damage the hide.
He was sft.-nothing, weighed 16st., and still lives.
—C.H.R.
♦ * * *
“W.H.”: In my youthful days on a
Tas. sheep-station a groom had broken a filly to
such a degree of docility that she would follow
him like a dog and allowed no one else to approach
her. One Sunday the groom was wanted on some
urgency to ride to the township, and donning a
black suit and bell-topper went to the paddock
gate and whistled for the filly, but at sight of him
m his unwonted rig she stopped, turned, and tore
round the enclosure at a terrific pace. The man,
thinking to pacify her, entered the paddock;
whereupon she jumped a four-rail er into alane. At
top of lane, between two buildings, was a closed
gate, and for this she raced at Cup speed. I was
behind one of the gate-posts, awaiting a steeple
act, but it was a circus “turn” instead, for the
filly-went clean through the gate without scratch-
ing top or bottom bar —leaving a hole as clean as a
hoop—and ran into the stockyard, the gate of
which was closed on her. Then, without hesita-
tion, she rushed the 7ft. fence, and, her chest
catching the top-rail, she performed another circus
act into the road beyond. Then, after clearing
numerous other fences and wrecking several gates,
she was run down by half-a-dozen stockriders at
nightfall. Next morning she was found dead in
her box, and a post-mortem revealed liver-disease.
Liver, aggravated by bell-topper. No wonder
some humans are restive at times !
* * * *
“Rufus” : Re burrs' (“A.P.R., 8.,
8., 4/8/’00). None of the burr-family are “in it”
with St. .John’s wort, a weed growing in
Bright district, Vic., where it has ruined thou-
sands of acres, and is fast spreading in the Ovens.
Said to have been introduced by a “herbalist.”
Stands the severest droughts and flourishes in any
kind of soil. Stock will not eat it unless forced
by want of other feed, and then they soon develop
a serious skin-disease. Any means of eradication ?
OBSERVATION.
LILY: “ Luy me, murder! Wot a rummy sort,
of way these ’ere toffs DO dress”


The Acetylene Miners’ Lamps, introduced by
the Acetylene Gas Co. of Australia, Ltd., have proved a
great success and are now largely used in the mines
throughout the colony. The company has lately been
rushed with orders for lighting up gold-mining dredges
owing to the many advantages offered by the light for
that purpose. It would be well for mine and dredge
owners to ascertain full information as to cost, etc., from
the Head Office of the Company, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
THE
“Fx & R”
Saucer '
attachment
Supplies a long-felt want,
as it does away with the
necessity of poising a plate
mm nm
as well as a Cup and Saucer at Afternoon Teas. * AII Fashionable London Uses Them.
They are made of White Metal, Triple-plated, and differ in Design and Size.
They will last a lifetime, and are 5/6, 6/6 and 7/6 each.
FAIRFAX
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
LONDON GASH PRICES.
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Miss Edith Swords.
INCIDENTS OF HER LIFE.
In a recent interview with Miss Swords, a
contemporary gives particulars of interesting
incidents of her life. Her experiences are so
unique that we reprint them.
Miss Edith Swords (says the writer) is a pre-
possessing young lady, 24 years < f age, and most
modestly detailed her experiences.
“I did not think” said Miss Swords, when
told of the reporter’s purpose “that such great
interest would be taken in my narrative. How-
ever, it has the virtue of being true in every par-
ticular. For the last two years I have suffered
from anaemia, debility, and dyspepsia. At night
the internal pain was so intense that I could not
sleep, and each morning on rising I felt fearfully
dizzy, the floor seemed to go up and down ; vio-
lent headaches attacked me, my face was pale and
bloodless, my lips blue, and I was always worn
out even when I had not exerted myself. A doc-
tor said I was suffering from ansemia and genera)
debility. Medicines and pills were prescribed,
but without benefit. Then I tried many useless
advertised medicines, after which my cousin in-
duced me to commence Dr. Williams’ pink pills.
The first box wonderfully improved me, and four
boxes completely cured me. The indigestion,
giddiness, headaches, and listlessness, have all dis-
appeared. I sleep soundly, and feel stronger and
more active than ever. A good appetite and
improved complexion are further evidences of my
cure. ”
There is a vicious circle in disease, for ansemia
leads to indigestion (as in Miss Swords’ case), and
many other ills. If we can feed and enrich the
blood for which Dr. Williams’ pink pills are famed,
we check the ansemia, obtain the full benefit from
our food, and cure indigestion, sluggish liver
biliousness, debility, nervous ailments—like St’.
Yitus’ dance, neuralgia, and paralysis. Only the
pills must be genuine, bearing the full name—Dr.
Williams’ pink pills for pale people—in red on the
white outide wrapper. Sold by all chemists and
storekeepers, and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and nine per box,
six boxes fifteen and three, post free. Miss Swords
resides at 92 Addison Road, Marrickville.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE.
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE w ° ol -
- Marking
The Perfect Sheep-Marker- BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
“ Mulga ” ; Has this veritable “Bobby
Rand ” yarn seen print ? Same old sundowner-
same old request. “ Right, my man,” said Bobby,
“ get the horse and dray in the morning and take
those gates’’—pointing to them —“up the river
road and hang them on posts on the boundary
fence. Swaggy harnessed up and started off after
breakfast. He travelled till dinner-time but could
not find anywhere to hang gates, and, suspecting
he’d been “had,” he chucked them in the river.
Returning about dusk he met Bobby, who asked,
“Well, my man, did you hang those gates?”
“ No,” says swaggy ; “ I drowned ’em.”
THAT ANTELOPE.
(Bill and Tom from up-country visit the Zoo.
BILL: "My word, Tom, if the goats up our way
’ad necks like ’im wire-fences ’ud be no good.”
“ Hayseed ” : A farm-hand of mine is
singularly deficient in imagination. He says he
does not care for fiction, but that he can occasion-
ally get through a novel by beginning at the last
chapter and reading on to the first. He usually
preserves his weekly journal with that end in
view. A hint for persons who read stories as
Scotchmen joke—“ wi deeficulty.”
“Xerxes” : “ W.K.A.” (8., 14/7/’00) is
a bit wrong. lam not living on the game, and
yet can skin a ’possum in less than Bmin. and
within smin. of its death, and will guarantee the
skin is not damaged. Some people skin a ’possum
with maul and wedges.
HOW THE OTHER HALF LIVES; OR, MISSIONARY WORK IN THE FAR NORTH.
The last bit of blubber had been swallowed and washed down with the last drop of train-oil,
and there was nothing in the larder but an inch of candle to stand between a family of seven
(including the dog) and starvation. Providentially at this crisis the missionary looked in to see
if he could be of any use .He lasted till the walrus-season came round again.
An admirable disciplinary note runs
through the letters of Australian contingenters.
Writes a certain private to a northern paper :
Before we could reach the railway line we had to go
through an ordinary (not barbed) fence. I got through
with the rest and immediately lay down behind whatever
cover I could get. Major is a corpulent man and
somehow he got jammed in the fence. He got very
excited and we heard him crying out : “My God—my
God 1 I’ll be shot.” I don’t know how he got out, but
none of our fellows went to his assistance.
It is by no means evident that that private
and his comrades would not have been rather
tickled if the portly Major had been shot.
The last of the male black Tasmani-
ans died at Hobart Hospital in ’7l. A local
medico, desiring to preserve the head as
a curio, replaced it by that of a Scotch
shepherd whose body was lyingin the dead-
house. The theft was discovered, but not
the missing cranium, and the black corpse
was buried with a white head. When the
clergyman reading the funeral-service
came to the phrase “our dear brother,”
several persons called out “Which?”
One popular rumor says that the black’s
skull is now doing duty as a tobacco-jar.
The other day at Cobram a Vic-
torian farmer, out on horseback with a
double-barrelled gun,' fired at a crow. His
horse was frightened at the report, bolted
and fell. The fall discharged the second
barrel which killed the horse, and as it
died it rolled over and badly hurt the
farmer. The crow is also dead. It isn’t
every man who brings down himself, a
horse and a crow with two shots.
* * • *
Some 40 miles from Norman ton was
found dead recently by the roadside the
manager of Chats wood station. A match-
box lay near the body with the inscription :
“Jam; I think, poison; awful pains;
fear I am dying. Love to dear neither
and to all dear ones.—S. D. Clarke.” Not
all the tragedies of this sad world happen
on veldt and kloof and kopje.
It fairly broke up old Maoriland
gum-diggers recently to see Massey-Wat-
son (of “Bull-dog” and “Highland cos-
tume ” fame) on his way to the gumfields.
“ Matilda ’ neatly rolled in an expensive
carriage-rug, shiny new billy, pointed
boots, tan gaiters, Club straw hat, and
over all an umbrella, around the rim of
which dangled 7 pairs of socks, washed at
the last creek before entering the town-
ship.
• * * *
“ Moke ” : Can any reader tell me
whether the cruel practice of physicking
horses througli the nostrils is common in
Australia. The administration, I under-
stand, is supposed to be thus rendered
easier.
• * • *
There is an alleged goldfield in N.S.W.
called the “Jawbone Neild ” diggings.
FAIRLY WON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Simon White rode in to Waddy from his hut at Ninety
Mile
To the house of Widow Anson every Sunday, fine or rain,
In his newest riding-breeches and a coat of city style,
With a blossom in his button-hole, a bashful sort of smile,
And a bosom full of sentiment he couldn’t well explain.
Mrs. Anson’s cheek was rosy ; Mrs. Anson’s eye was blue ;
And her waist was round and supple, just the measure of
an arm ;
But her daughter’s eyes were brighter, and her cheeks
were rosy, too,
And her hair was golden-brown with little lightnings
darting through, ’
And her lightest glance filled Simon with an exquisite
alarm.
It was thought he wanted Mary, but he never made it
known,
And when Sim. was slyly married at the house the other
day
All the men of Waddy gathered, and their sympathy was
shown
As the tins were wildly rattled, and the bullock-horns
were blown,
And they bore the blushing bridegroom to the bar across
the way.
There the toast was “ Sim. and Mary.” “ Stop ! ” the
bushman softly said.
“ I am married to the widow.” Wonder seized each
mother’s son.
“ See, I didn’t make pertiokler love,” Sim pensively re-
plied,
“ An’ they couldn’t tell which one of ’em I wanted for my
bride,
So they settled it at euchre, an’ ’twas Mrs. Anson won.”
“ But ’twas Mary you were mashed on ! What objection
did you make ? ”
“Yes, ’twas Mary,” Simon answered, “an’ I tried to
wriggle through— »
Read the rules, an’ wrote to papers in the hope o’ some
mistake.
All in vain, the answer always was, ‘ The widow lifts the
stake.’
So I put it to you fairly, mates— what could a feller do ? ”
E.D.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will he taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Mary F. : It grieves us to murder the inno-
cents, Mary F. ; we like to murder a large, blaring,
blathering person who dumps down his “ poem ” with a
bang. Some of these days we’d like to print one issue
full of rejected contributions —all the tender weaklings,
all the misshapen things hard-written by horny hands,
all the failures of the people who feel and can’t
express their feeling. When that day comes,
Mary F., yours shall be poem 1., column I.
.... William B. : Refer you to the series of articles now
appearing in Bulletin in which is outlined this paper’s
idea of a policy for the Commonwealth... . Barnacle : Why
not learn to condense ? Do you take us for a filling-in con-
tract ? J.B. : But the English Tippling Act, under
which N.S.W. defendants have recently sheltered them-
selves, is not an absolute protection withal. The tippler
must take something with his whisky, and English Courts
have decided that the publican may charge for lemonade,
soda-water, or common water up to any amount....
J.W.M. : You could lick us with the pick, but your pen is
weak....M.S. (Melb.): Ideas all right; verse all
wrong. ..Annis B. : Such a steep yarn that
we fell off it three times.... Will S. : Only a
man with a weak chin looking dreamily across a plain
and talking about the old homestead. And this country
is so full of plains and homesteads, and almost every
plain has a weak-chinned man looking across it... .Anti-
Cuponic Plague : We recognise your fist, so your attempt
to boom your own business under pretence of being a
disinterested outsider falls like a leaden elephant... .A.
Cameron : (1) When we said that N.Q. lines “ about pay
their way ” we knew that some give a very big profit.
But lumping them together they just about pay interest
and working expenses. (2) It would be a good thing for
Victoria to elect a convention by one-man-one-vote and
let it draft a complete new State Constitution (reforming
the House of 48 Rich Landlords among other things). But
its reformed Constitution couldn’t become law without
the consent of the 48 Rich Landlords, so you bump
against the same dead wall once more... .C.A.S. : “An
unsullied rustic gem ” named “Muriel Vaughan.” It is
too much L.E.A. : Don’t care for condensed “East
Lynne.” L.E.H. : You say your hero had “ broken all
the Commandments except the seventh,” so he
had been a murderer, perjurer, and worshipper of
graven images. Yet, when he is thinking’ of run-
ning away with the girl he is worried about
his “social position”—a murderer’s social position!....
E. P.M. : The N.S.W. Treason Felony Act, among other
things, decreed punishment for demining to stand and
drink the Queen’s health when asked. It went through
N.S.W. Assembly' in a half-mad fit. The Assembly' passed
it by 44 votes to 2, and the Council unanimously ; and yet
in a few years the originators of the Act endeavoured to
repudiate the shame of its authorship. The Bulletin
always thinks of the Treason Felony Act, and the Soudan
farce, and the Mount Rennie savagery, and such things,
when it hears the populace shrieking in its evanescent
delirium Theo. A. Cook (London): Bulletin isn’t
taking any' “ Imperial Memorial ” of the S’African war,
and it isn’t at all impressed by the list of princes, dukes,
lords, bishops, and bounders submitted Juncus :
They' hung the rum-keg to the rafters, to keep it out of
the old girl’s way during their absence ; and she, finding
a rifle, shot a hole in said keg, caught the falling rum in
a vessel, and got duly “paralytic.” All in 42 words—as
against your 500 ! Besides, it was all printed here years
ago J.B. : There are already'far more than enough
barristers. If an exam, in general culture excludes
some, the community probably loses little. Any-
how, |the kind of man built to succeed at the Bar
can’t be kept back by' a little thing like that
C.P. : Will print “ Shouting”... .A.O. : The Mt. Morgan
machinery is officially valued at £466,715.. . .R.F.T. :
Send along what y'ou like —subject to approval.... Pan :
To hand; will consider W.M.F. : Snake-yarn only a
bad variant upon “ Malle’s ” recent perjury.... Rex : Non-
sense ; the plain, ordinary constable is now efficiently
regulating Sydney street-traffic with less “ frill ” than did
the be-braided transit officer... .O.H.L. : Petty hyper-
criticism. Accredited colloquial usage distinguishes
between “ animals ” and “ birds,” and it is perfectly good
English—though not logically correct—to speak of “ dis-
turbing the night-hours”... H.S.R. : But men don’t dig
their own graves when going to be shot E.A. : You
should write all names very clearly. There is no context
to a name.... Vril: White paper, hlack ink and larger
writing, please S.T.S. : Remember receiving sketch,
but not letter.... J.A.S. : Looks good ; considering....
W. 8.: Peking doggerel received C.R.K. : Because, at
short range, a shot-gun is 20 times as sure and deadly as
a rifle Cro : The long-haired subject of Melb. Municipal
Music has been treated with all due solemnity A.
D. : Mail us addressed envelope and we’ll recommend
you to a skilled and honest specialist.... J.C.G. : Hope-
less commonplace... .Jan : Main incident would make a
story, if better handled.. . .F.T. : “ Our opinion ”is that
they are very bad verses Q. : Both repulsive... .Sir
John : Please don’t scribble so dreadfullv.. . .Norman C. :
No literary value whatever M.B. : Goodbye ” has a
flavor of true pathos, but is otherwise hardly effective
enough.. . X. : Some truth-to-life in it, but too fragmen-
tary and formless.... Glenira : It has one merit —there
isn’t much of it....M.E.A. : You haven’t the sign of a
gift... .C.M.H. : “Phase” lacks interest Judas:
“ Palmer ”is human and brightly handled. Considering.
. ...G.Q. : Incident spun out too far ; though you spin
we 11.... Roughrider : Some incidental freshness in “No
Mercy ” doesn’t justify space for stale yarn.. . .Ben Sun :
Pithless fluency in “ Spirit ”... Quilp N. : “ Roses ” not
quite force enough.... I’alara : A good deal of logic, but
not quite logic enough. ..Gilbert B. : Point old; verse
bad.. . Inquirer : Thanks, but we don’t favor that sort of
alleged humor.... A.P. : The Britisher boasts that he
doesn’t know when he is beaten, and that’s the way with
the Boer.. ..Pan : “ Ride ” annotated and returned....
Grant H. : Considering “ Beers” S.G. (Quam.): Letter
posted.. Waste Paper : Keep calm ; wet your head ; get
a drink ready; don’t get excited, now; steady !
we might, really print it! There, it’s over now
Jimmy’s Mother : Nicely written, but lacks strength and
novelty.... Kodak : “ Efficacy of Prayer” rather point-
less l’.A. : Will print “How do ?”.... Hubert M. :
Ditto “ Ides.”.. . .Ne’er-do-well : “ Who-is-he ” not recog-
nisable in Bulletin Office R.O. : No value Author
of “ Docile Dairy Cows ” : Send to editor N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Gazette, ... R.N.C.: Stick your stamps on your
copy, and don’t write separate notes A. G. T. :
More inspiration in one smudge on our blotter... .Louie :
You’ll find “ Daddy ” somewhere near the doorstep—
hardly as far as the drain L.C.C.: Humor rather thin
and strained... .Ivan M.L. : Far too bulky J.C.L. :
No, she was not related to him.... Dingo - Take our advice
and buy nothing. They are a very shady 10t.... “ Mollie
P.” enquires whether it is legal in N.S.W. to charge
admission to a church on Sunday. It is not legal, but it
is often done.. .. W.A. : A very ordinary lamentation....
S. Partridge: “Tarpeia” may do. “Where Fancy
Dwells ” sounds like a hazy opium dream.... A. GU i, arr .
Don’t care for mere dog biography or biographical dog:
.... “As the Crow Flies ” : Futile to cavil on strictly
ornithological grounds at a universally-accepted expres-
sion ... .P. 0.0. :If you had to get through as many thou-
sands of letters as come to The Bulletin office you
wouldn’t have time to write 6-page fcp. epistles all about
nothing... .Sphinx : Nemesis isn’t a sufficiently imposing
retribution Pseudo: Commonplace murder Yar-
rum : If that dog did anything really new we wouldn’t
mind giving him the space, but the mere fact that he was
an embittered bull-pup who bit a bishop isn’t sufficient.
S.G. : “Judge of Character” under consideration.
....Darkie: We could have a more interesting dream
than that standing up T.H.M. : Rather a weak thrill.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
B. Bisset : Submitted to artist Weavel: Thanks,
but don’t quite see how to illustrate it Lucy W. H. :
Good artistic feeling in your drawing, but you must study.
Also, the attached legend is pointless... .Ino : Sorry all
are mere verbal quips, unsuitable for illustration....
Harry J. W. : Amusing enough, but it would, after all,
be emphasising an indecency Wess J. : Your “ rough”
sketch is indeed rough. Just think of seeing such a
thing in print!... .Unavailable: M. Smith (M.L.), R.
Glynn, H.R.S.D., M’Gregor.


THE RETURN OF RIP.
“ Mr. James Munro is returning to public life.” MELE PAPER.
GEORGE TURNER : “Lean on me, dear old friend, and I’ll get you back in time for the Federal elections."
RIP TAN MUNRO : “'Federal ’ ‘Federal!’ I seem to remember that word!”


WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH OUR BOYS 1
Lord Skidmore : “ I see these beastly Aus-
tralians propose to have home-grown Gov’nahs
for their provinces, instead of the real Simon Puah blue blood of the Empiah.”
The Earl of Eggcroft : “ The deuce !
Why, before long there will be no careeah
open to the Nobility except in the police?
force of South Africa.”
%Co^
AL .
L
Ly ne QovERNn ENT I
A SPECIALTY.
WANTED—A NEW BRAND OF EXPERT.
“ A recent decision in the Supreme Court in an early closing
case supported the position taken up by the department ad-
ministering the Act with reference to the necessity for partitions
in ‘mixed ’ shops, where it was desired to carry on business hr
one line of trade to the laterliours allowed, in the case of shops
on the schedule. It was thought by many shopkeepers that the
decision in what is known as the ‘ chemist’s shop case ’ had the
effect of weakening these requirements with regard to partitions.”
“A large number of police, trackers, and civilians again got on the
tracks the outlaws yesterday, and endeavored to surround them.”
From a casual onlooker’s standpoint it would seem to be easier and
pleasanter to surround the “ tracks ” of the outlaws than the outlaws
.themselves.
WANTED TO DO \\\\
BUSINESS. \m
Proprietor of
“Mixed Shop: \
“ Sorry can’t give
you 3 penn’orth of
cigarettes, sonny, be-
cause I’ve just closed
the tobacco depart-
ment according to the
Act, but if you’ll just
slip round behind the
v screen I’ll give you a dean
Eac shave.” >
COMPULSORY BATHIN&
AS IT WILL BE.
Here is a recent by-law
passed-by the Sydney City Council (! !! !) Baths are made compulsory adjiincts of houses.
The owner of any premises in the city, wherein any person shall for the time being reside,
and in which no sufficient bath accommodation is provided, shall, within two months from
receipt of a notice in writing from the inspector of nuisances requiring him so to do, cause
such premises to be
provided with bath
accommodation pro-
perly connected with
the metropolitan
water supply and
sewerage system,
and sufficient - and
suitable for the
number of persons
for the time being
residing therein.”
“•Press interviews ” with O. H. Reid are frequent of late.
Reporter : “ You admit, then, that the Lyne Govern-
ment has its faults, and is, in ma ty respects, an inferior
Government to its predecessor ? ”
While paying a careful and proper respect to the opinions of hifT offioers regarding works, he 1
always reserved to himself the right to say to them : ‘ Weil, Mr. So-and-So, you are entitled to your
opinion, out 1 am also entitled to mine.’ . . If a Minister believes that certain works should be
earned out, he would be lacking in his nerve and public duty if he did not in such cases act on his own
sufficient authority. And the same with regard to the Railway Commissioners. ... If they agree
with me, it is all right, and I respect them. And if they are against me, it is also all right. The
wo . r 5 "T* 1 a “ fc h© same. I am satisfied it is to the benefit of the state that it should be carried
out. —The O’Sullivan, at Cronulla.
Minister of Works O’Sullivan, of N.S.W., complains
of the scarcity of statues to our great men living and
dead. Here is a design for one which should be erected
at once—if possible, before our Napoleon of roads and
bridges meets with his Waterloo.
CARTOONLETS.


Handsome $ Useful Wedding Presents.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cake BASKET, chased, ISs 6d ; plain, 15s od.
Other styles, 20s, 265, 30s, £2, and £2 10s.
We guarantee the quality.
Send for illustration.
SOp^
CSJO:,
V:-
ms,
m
~ „ lAvr _ A. oaUNDERS.
ENT'S FRIEND,” Letter Book, Pure Solid Silver-
mounted, 15s, 20a, 255. A Useful Present,
Ruby JAM, 12s 6d and 15s 6d, Pure Silver-
plated. Guaranteed Quality
Send for Price Book
LADIES’ ERIEND.
°ure Silver-mounted, 18s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral BISCUIT, first-class,
. 20s, 22b 6d, 255.
LADIES’ FRIEND,
Silver-m@unt«d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak Biscuit, pure Silw
plated Mounts, Its 6d a
Fluted Bands, 20sa
Shield only, 12s 6da
FLOWER STANDS.
IBs 6d pair.
Other styles, 10s, 12s 6d, 20*.
Pure Silver-plated
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Metal Silver-plated BUTTER,
25s ; similar, very neat and pretty, ’
20s, 22s 6d.
Pure Silver Manicure SET, First-class
20s ; smaller, 12s 6d.
TEAPOTS.—Pure Silver-plated, First-class, 80s.
Other styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 265. Send for Book of Patterns.
Pure Silver-Mounted PUBSES, 16s, 20s.
Cheep Styles, 6e, 7s 6d, 10s.
4%
COFFEE POT.
Pure Solid Silver PENCILS (Cedar), 3s 6d and 4s 6d.
Old Plate Made Equal to New.
Estimates Given. • Send Your Address.
p
4 o’ckck TEA SET, with Covers, Gilt insi pure Silver-plated.
20 Tears’ Guaranteed.
£2 los, worth £4 4s. Other stales, ~58, £2, £3, £4.
Ladies! K 'T
KINDLY CALL AND
SEE OUR DISPLAY.
S P ™ e ,. silv ® r BRUSHES and COMBS, in Silk Case,
«2155. Special Value. Send for Illustration
TEAPOT.
SUGAR, with Cover.
MILK, with Cover.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Electro Silver-plated TEA and OOFFEE £5 6s
Other styles, £4 4s, £6 6s 6d, £8 Bs, £lO 10s. Send for List. '
ENTREE DISHES, 4 Pieces, Pure Silver-plated, £2 17s 6d
Others charge you £4 4s. TRY A. SAUNDERS.'
2 Butter KNIVES, Pearl Handle, 15s 6d. Cheaper style,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d. Send for List.
CRUETS—4-bottle Square Bottles, 21s.
Similar, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUETS, 30s, 355, £2. Cheap,
20s, 255. Pure Silver-plated.
Call and See our D'splayed Showrooms.
An Up-to-JJate Show.
We Replate Old Silverware Equal to New.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pare Silver-plated COAL
SCUTTLE, 16s 6d, 20s, 255.
FLOWER STANDS.
Latest Style, 21s pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER, as above, 15s 6d ; Large
Size, 20s. Guaranteed Quality.
Pure Silver-plated BUTTER, 8s 6d.
Special Value.
Silver-plated SERVIETTE RINGS, 3s 6d.
Pure Silver, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
Ruby Glass SALTS and SPOON, 10s 6d pair.
Other styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 o'clock TEA SPOONS and TONGS, 12a 6d
Other Styles, 15s, 20s, 255.
Bixxans, without Case, ss, 7s 6d, 10s half-dozer
Pure Solid Silver, in Silk Case, 25s ;
With Tongs, 30s and 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 6 Bottle Design,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK, 10s 6d. Other Styles,
8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s. Pure f Uvcr-plated.
Guaranteed Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hot Water Tea KETTLE, 355;
Embossed, £2. Others charge
£2 10s and £3 for same article.
We Guarantee the Quality.
. , A - SAUNDERS.—Spoons and Forks—Solid Nickel Silver Table Spoons or Forks
4s half-dozen ; Dessert, 3s ; Tea, Is 6d. Pure Silver-plate (on Hard White Metal)
Table Spoons and Forks, 12s half-dozen ; Dessert, 10s ; Tea, 5s 6d. These are Guar-
anteed to give every satisfaction. Dinner and Dessert Knives, 4s 6d and 9s 6d half-
dozen, the very best Sheffield Steel. TRY THEM.
A. SAUNDERS. —Butter KNIVES, pure Silver-plated, 2s, 3s, 4s:
Handle, 3s 6d ; Extra Mounted, 6s 6d.
Jam SPOONS, same price. Two in Case, 7s 6d and 10s.
iEfJSSKS
A. SAUNDEKS.—Pure Silver FEUIT KNIFE, ss, 7s 6d, 10s.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, Large Size, 32a 6d.
Cheaper Style, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller $ Silversmith,
815 George Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station,
Sydney
-A- BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.


ROWLANDS
MAGASSAR OIL
for the hair.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
* « * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete 00., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * ■
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* « * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,"
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* * * »
Urinaiy troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* • * *
How the Westralian timber trade has developed I
In 1893 the exports were valued at £33,888; last year
they reached £553,198. The present Westralian Conser-
vator of Forests holds, in opposition to the late Ednie
Brown, that the proposed extensive tree-planting on the
goldfield would almost certainly result in a costly failure.
1
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
sg
It is announced that the N.S.W. railway system
made a loss for the year to 30th June, 1900, after paying
interest and working expenses, of £6135, as compared
with a profit of £71,912 for previous years. But as a
matter of fact there was no profit for the previous year,
but a loss, as shown by the Auditor-General’s accounts,
of £14,107. So this year the loss will probably be about
£92,000. It isn’t much, but all the same that annual dis-
agreement between the railway authorities and the
Auditor-General grows a trifle ridiculous. By the way,
how many people realise that very nearly half the cost of
every railway ticket they buy goes to pay interest on bor-
rowed money ? If Australia had set itself resolutely to
build its railways out of revenue, which could easily have
been done if the grand old men of this country had had
any grit in their political composition, or if Australia got
to work now and paid off its railway debt, there is no
earthly reason why fares should not be cut down one-
half.
* * * *
The promised N.S.W. State Land Bank, it is
reported, is to be a close copy of the Victorian one
originated by plain George Turner. Undoubtedly
Turner’s is the most successful of the three State Land
Banks of Australia, the one difficulty being that its 3 per
cent, bonds are too low in price to attract the general
public, and the fact that they are not fixed for a
lengthened term of years, but are liable to redemption at
any time, also makes them unpopular. So the Savings
Bank supplies most of the money. Lyne, it is understood,
intends also to rely on the Savings Bank funds to a great
extent, but if he proposes to offer bonds to the public the
price should be fixed at 3J per cent. The joke of asking
the Australian public to lend money at rates which the
British public wouldn’t look at is getting played out.
* * * *
A certain Australian Taxation Department has
an original method of inquiring into citizens’ incomes.
When it is suspected that farmer Brown is too modest
about his annual balance-sheet an official goes out anony-
mously and interviews Brown, and pours liquors into him,
takes him home intoxicated, and calls him a “ jolly goo’
feller.” Brown gets confidential, and answers all in-
quiries about his crops and his sheep and cattle. A month
later a revised income-tax assessment happens along, and
Brown is surprised to find how much the Department
knows about his affairs. It is stated that a good official
can make numerous inquiries at once, and although he
frequently has to take a whole township home, can keep
all the respective confessions in his head. However, a
Boyal Commission has been inquiring into the matter,
and the W.G.T.U. is demanding that this immoral De-
partment shall cease shouting drinks for the community.
The M.L. Public Trust Office—when are the
Australian States to have each a public trust office ?—talks
of erecting new offices to cope with its increased work.
Besides its ordinary trust business, the Dept, administers
large blocks of native lands for the native owners. When
new offices are built, strong-room accommodation is to be
supplied to the general public for “ safe custody ” pur-
poses.
We ought not to talk about the Boers’ cruel taxing
of the mining industry after the experience in the British
Straits Settlements! In the latter colony, in the first
four months of the year, the tin-export duty amounted
to 2,247,025 dollars. By the way, despite the big rise in
the value of tin, it is shown that the Malayan export has
increased less than 10 per cent.
* * * *
There is more discontent at Broken Hill over
Sunday mine-work, which, after being eased off as the
result of an agitation 18 months ago, has increased again,
partly in consequence of the rapid extension of the ore-
dressing mills, and partly because the high price for lead
is inducing managers to rush out the metal. The Govt,
is to be asked to do something legislatively. At the same
time the department might properly inquire whether it is
not becoming rather common for men to be called on to
put in two shifts consecutively—l 6 hours on end. The
practice seems to be commonest among engine drivers —
the very men with whom it can be least safely tried.
Dear Bulletin. —Be the Broken Hill Water
Supply’s annual enormous losses through evaporation
(Bulletin, 18/8/’00), of what use is Minister O’Sullivan s
Umberumberka scheme ? When full his reservoir is com-
puted to hold only 690,000,000ga15., and cost to construct,
£150,000. Seeing the small quantity it will conserve,
and taking into consideration the enormous evaporation
(the two schemes being similar), is it worth while to spend
so much to impound so small a quantity of water, as in
case of drought it would be dry 18 months at least before
Stephen’s Creek ? If another water-supply is necessary
why nob cancel the rights (if any exist) of the Yanco
Glen crowd and have water conserved worth the money
expended ?—Wapstraw.
• * • *
Wentworth Mines, N.S.W., decided to sell the
assets of the co. to the D’Arcy Wentworth Cos., of which
Frank Gardner is chairman. The shareholders of the
Aladdin’s Lamp Cos. are also considering .the question of
amalgamation with the new enterprise. Seems that Gar-
dner never loses faith in these pocket-mines, for they are
nothing else. At one time they were rich and the market
inflated enough to well line his pockets. A few weeks
ago some rich ore was found at 1000 ft. in the D’Arcy
mine, probably a very small bonanza or we should have
heard more about it. Gardner also controls the des-
tinies of the British Westralian Syndicate which floated
one big mine, the Boulder Perseverance, and quite a
number of small ones, names not worth mentioning. Its
latest flotation, the Windsor Consolidated Gold Mines,
was got together and reported on by Zeb. Lane. It has
also taken a strong hand in the development of the Collie
coal-fields, and recently it took the ground floor of anew
building in London for which, rumor says, it is paying
£4500 a year rental. Colossal as is this co.’s cheek, it
ought to be ashamed of the latter operation.
• • • *
A remarkable fact is that English railway cos.
have contracted for coal supplies from U.S. The first
consignment of 4000 tons was to leave Newport News for
London in Aug., by steamer specially chartered at 10s.,
and even at this figure the coal can be landed in London
at a rate much lower than is now asked for S. Wales and
Northern coal. Worthy also of note that at present Car-
diff coal is selling in Hongkong at 645., so, for the next
few months, the Australian article should have ready sale
in that port at something a little over half that figure.
* * * *
“Producer” writes from Inverell (N.S.W.):
“ Pleased to see you taking action in the right direction
re the establishment of national purchasing, smelting and
refining works in the State. If the existing system is
carried on much longer it will be the means of closing up
a large number of small mines owned by working men,
who are using their utmost endeavor to make a living,
but who will soon be out of the running by the present
system of squeezing. Say a small party mine 8 tons
weekly, which they send to any of the big purchasing
smelting co.s, their returns are about as under (account-
sales can be produced in support). The first deduction is
as for copper.
About 1 j per cent, of the assay-value, about .. £1 2 6
Smelting-charges 2 0 0
2/6 per unit realisation-charges on a basis of,
say, 12 per cent, ore 1 10 0
Sampling and assay .. .. . 2 6
£4 15 0
Then come costs of carriage, freight, mining, &c. So you
can imagine what sort of chance the miner has of making
a living and opening up the country. And you know
that it is not the capitalist who does open up the country,
although he invariably reaps the benefit. N. S.W.hasavery
expensive Department of Mines, but if a miner wants any
information as to where he can sell his products to get a
fair value none is to be had, nor can any assistance be
obtained. Again, the managers of big English co’s. can
at all times get unlimited exemptions from labor-condi-
tions, as for instance the Inverell Diamond Fields leases
at Boggy Camp and Bingara, whereas any working miner
who may want an exemption can very rarely to obtain it.
* * * *
The Tasmania gold-mine has now yielded
492,5020 z. from 414,685 tons crushed, total value £1,799,597,
and paid in dividends £724,071155.; also £25,000 has been
placed at fixed deposit as reserve.
* * * *
Some sanguine persons, who have spent time in
the district, assert that, if low-grade propositions
ever come to be considered in Westralia, some of the
abandoned shows about the defunct Gen. Gordon will be
heard of again. A number of dry-blowers have eked out
an existence for years past, and some of the reefs—the
Mt. Eba, for instance—do contain a little gold. Even the
awful G.G. itself cleaned up for 16dwt. per ton, after
that protracted crushing, a couple of years ago, when
they did manage to get less than 50 tons through in Lord
knows how many weeks.
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grim wade and Cos., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
The Uniform Curse.
Australia is supplying the uniforms in abun-
dance just now, and a Bulletin correspondent
furnishes the curse:
The frantic rush to form volunteer corps at Flyblow
Flat and Jackass Swamp appears to have subsided to
some extent, but the trouble is only dormant, and unless
advantage is taken of its present tired condition to jump
on it hard, we shall have the foolishness all over again.
The average man has advanced very little since the time
when his remote ancestor sat up a tree and dropped rocks
on the casual passer-by, and there is a chord in him
somewhere which only needs touching to make him throw'
off his thin veneer of civilisation like a worn-out sock
and romp around like bis said unclothed progenitor.
Extraordinary also is the attraction of even the most
tawdry decoration. Let a butcher but tie a few ribbons
on a string of sausages in his window, and sundry idiots of
both sexes will stand and stare those alleged articles of diet
out of countenance. That a day will come when Australia
will have to fight; for her existence is so certain as not to be
worth argument—that day comes to every, country ;
therefore it is necessary for Australians to be familiar
with guns. Unfortunately, however, the practice
of dressing up a number of able-bodied citizens in
gorgeous millinery' is likely' to land this country in a lot
of trouble. No sooner did the S’African unpleasantness
arise than our hitherto undistinguished local warriors,
with sanguinary desires fostered by' their clothes, and
possibly with an eye to the limelight, volunteered for the
fray. Then, at the rhythmic beat of trained feet, and the
piercing bray' of brass, and the loud thud on the skin of
the defunct goat, the whole population were as so many
lunatics. The fat and hitherto staid citizen threw up his
respectable hat and jumped on it when it came down
though sometimes it lodged on the roof of the Equitable
Insurance building and remained there. Excitable
females of every age from 14 to 70 grabbed promiscuously
at the uniformed mob and sobbed out their hysteria
thereon. The ordinary tw'eed-coated male creature
could no longer capture even a casual caress from his
hitherto best girl, and after drowming his woes in beer
instead of chasing their author with a waddy, he too fell
on said author’s khaki-covered bosom and swore to be a
brother to him. This state of things will become
a grave national danger, and the w r ay to block it
out is this : Let the Federal Government employ a num-
ber of competent instructors, provide rifles and
ammunition, abolish all volunteers, and enact that
all males between 16 and 50 shall fire a stated
number of rounds at a target per month. That on cer-
tain days they shall attend drills in a twelve-and-sixpenny
brown slop suit and cheap brown felt nat, and that no
other uniform or gewgaw shall be allowed. For be it re-
membered the beauty of the uniform is only good in
time of peace. After a few weeks hard campaigning the
soldier looks no better than if he had started out dressed
as a Domain dosser. Therefore in any strictly practical
army the only essential is that the clothes shall present
sufficient similarity to enable the soldier when in action
to recognise his own comrade. His twelve-and-sixpenny
slop suit and four-and-sixpenny felt hat require to be all
the same color. Beyond that the whole business
is only good for dazzling the eye of the domestic Bibdy,
and Australia can’t afford to keep up an army for the
gratification of the domestic Biddy.
♦
There is a law in N.S.W. against trading on the
Day of Rust —the same one which Sunday
Brunker of the God-fearing Minstry tried to
enforce for one consecutive half-week. No Gov-
ernment dare enforce it and no Government has
courage to repeal it. Because it isn’t enforced
many people keep open against their will; the
six-day banana-seller finds that on Sunday his
customers resort to the seven-day banana-seller,
and then they get in the habit of dealing with him
regularly, and the six-day man’s business goes to
pieces. Because it isn’t repealed and can be used
at any time the policeman finds it a handy means
of venting his private spites, and the individual
snuffler finds it useful for purposes of occasional
persecution. If some rich and business-like
infidels would form a society, and every Monday
morning lay about 2000 informations against all
the people who were open the previous Sunday,
and keep the police-courts blocked all the week
with Sunday-banana cases, and make them sit far
into the night to clear off arrears, then the Gov-
ernment would have to decide sooner or later
between repeal and enforcement. In the
absence of some such action it can totter between
two alternatives indefinitely. An attempt was
recently made to extract an opinion out of
Premier Lyne, but that long and hazy gentleman,
being boiled down and strained off, only yielded
about a spoonful of indecisive-looking mental jelly.
He said he was against prosecutions for Sunday-
trading. He didn’t say whether he approved or
disapproved of the conduct of certain private
pietists who have been prosecuting “on their
own.” He was shocked at the inhumanity of
Meagher, M.L.A., who asked him to have the
law rigidly enforced. He was grieved at the
laxity of Norton, M.L.A., who hinted at repeal-
ing the law, and he declined to tell Norton,
M.L.A., whether he thought it a good law or not.
Then Lyne, M.L.A., subsided into a thick mist.
Premier Lyne has already despatched many
cables Chamberlain wards indicating his pained
feeling at the prospect of N.S.W. Boer-Baiters
settling down on S’African farms. If he turns
the records back to an early day of the business
he will find that on this probability being sug-
gested to him he jauntily remarked that it would
not surprise him if some of the “ young fellows ”
married Boer widows and annexed the farms of
the departed. Everything looked rosy in the
Jingo flush of the time. The present pained feel-
ing is the logical aftermath. But- what is the use
of these expensive cables ? Even though Cham-
berlain sympathise, private companies may not.
Just as they despoil the Boers of their lands they
will, for dividends, despoil N.S.W. of its vigorous
young men —unless otherwise bigger dividends be
procurable. And how can anything Lyne may
do prevent it ? Parliament will certainly not
allow him to insist that the men shall be brought
back to Sydney for their discharge. He disturbed
the nest and sent the birds flying, and now if they
will not wing back voluntarily the most decent
thing he can do is to nurse his pained feeling in
private.
Premier Fhilp among the doctrinaires: “An
expanding Customs revenue is a sure index of the
prosperous condition of a community ! ” If this
dictum be true, then it is an excellent thing to im-
port all your goods (as far as possible) and manu-
facture non,. It would also be a public benefit
(according to Philp) if the Q. Government would
stop patronising the Brisbane and Maryborough
foundries with orders for locomotives and rolling-
stock, and import its railway material and
machinery from America, Britain, and Germany.
Further, the Q. public in place of dealing with the
Brisbane boot and furniture factories would do far
better to deal directly with —say Norwich,
Shanghai, and Japan. What is more (according
to the Q- Premier) if Australia should become
self-supporting in the matter of manufactures as
in the matter of raw produce, then this circum-
stance, instead of bringing a glow of gratification
to the national heart, should land us at once in the
deepest despondency, inasmuch as the Customs
revenues would be pitifully insignificant. In
¥lain Eitglish, Philp’s proposition amounts to this :
t is a good thing to import your goods no matter
whence, and no matter whether you have to borroV
the money to pay for them, because you can lev) -
duties on them; and the worst calamity that could
possibly befall a country would be the making
itself independent of imports. . . . Such is the
Wisdom that guides Queensland’s destinies.
One courageous
and intelligent
man in N.S.W.
Parliament
could, at the pre-
sent juncture,
inaugurate a new
national party.
The House just
now consists of
hangers-on. A
member with
courage and in-
telligence tosay:
“N.S.W. has to
continue its in-
dividual State
existence under
the Federation,
and for that pur-
pose must have
its own mem-
bers, not the
occasional loan
of the fag-end of
some Federal
mem b ers,”
would bring
down the Govt,
on its knees. If
he added that
the number of
members in the
local Assembly
should be de-
creased and the
fj pper House
abolished, he
would, in the
first instance, be
begged by the
Ministry and
about 100 mem-
bers to hold the
subject back till
after next gene-
ral election ; but
if he resolutely
said No, the
Ministry would
throw its arms
about him and protest that that was just what it
thought all along. Neither Ministers nor mem-
bers would dare face the country as opponents of
such a programme if there was a really strong
man behind the programme.
“ Alone among the nations, Japan has
openly rejoiced and congratulated Great Britain
upon her successes in South Africa.” — Melb.
Argus leading article.
Printed in the Jingo papers that Mme.
Alice Bron, a Belgian lady who “was one of the
first of her countrywomen to espouse the Boers’
cause,” has returned to Belgium, and is going to
write a book. But it is going to be an indictment,
not of England, but of the Boers. “I .went to
the Transvaal,” she says, “ full of enthusiasm for
the people. I returned disillusionised, crushed,
broken. The Boers possess all the vices and are
slaves to every form of corruption. They are
thieves, liars, and utterly immoral. _ They are
without the merest elements of patriotism, and
each individual only fights for his own farm,”
Also, she says, “ bribery reigns supreme, Exemp-
tion from military service may be purchased for
the price of a horse or an ox. It is only amongst
children of 15 or old men of 60 that one meets with
any sentiments of generosity. The women, how-
ever, are worth more than the men.” Very dif-
ferent are her opinions of the English.. “ They
are,” she says, “full of tact and delicacy, and
very grateful to those who attend to them when
they are wounded.” Madame Bron declares that
in her book will be given facts concerning the
rascality of the Boer soldiers and their infamous
treatment of the nurses.
MISS CLARE WALFORD, pupil of Signor c it
Beaupuis, a young Australian Pianiste who
gives her first recital on 26th September,
at the Y.M.C.A. Hall, Sydney.
Photo, by Eden, Sydney.
THE PRIZE GROUP (“ ALLAN’S”) AT MELBOURNE
POSTER-BALL.
Photo, by Falk, Melb.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
Geo. Roe# Co.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
fSgsrggsMEl
mmm
GrO TO HELL-
IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, prioe-
lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk &TRIPE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
D?MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
"55
For a
Charming
Complexion.
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society
S. Harvey, Ltd.
London Bdge, S.E
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CC>.
f urniture and Fine Art Auctioneers, ’
Auction Rooms, 324 Georga Street, Sydnej^
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Action Sales in fche City or Country, conducted by
Mr - Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
23? Sales Held at the Auction Rooms
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale,
aluations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-s't
POLITICAL
POINTS
_ E x " Premier Kingston will have an easy
victory in Central district of S.A. Leg. Council
election to-day (Sept. 22), if the Democrats have
not grown so cocksure as to neglect voting.
The Westralian Labor party has run its
first direct candidate—against Boulder Brookman
and some other gilded persons—for the metro-
politan seat in the Legislative Council. Brook-
man was out of the country, but his money won
easily.
‘‘As to the despatch of troops to South
Africa, if you want a real * yes-no ’ specimen
compare N.S.W. Works Minister O’Sullivan as
the British patriot with the same gentleman in
his capacity of editor of the Sydney Freeman’s
JOURNAL. —(jr. H. REID.
Tremendous capital was made out of Bar-
ton’s £l5OO expenses as Federal Delegate. Now
niAi? 1 ? 1108 dreary Dickson, of Q., got
fclOlb for expenses, besides his salary as Chief
Secretary, £546 13s. 4d„ or £62 13s. 4d. ahead of
what was paid to Barton.
“An ode to Australian nationhood.”
Crreat Scott! What a flood of drivel but waits to
be tapped! And shouldn’t the celebration of
Australia s nationhood be postponed until it has
been forgotten how we helped to rob another
people of its hardly-won nationhood ?
The stupendous batch of syndicate rail-
ways Philp is trying to force througli Queensland
parliament makes a Labor A 1 .1.. A's life a misery
unto him. What between his pledged platform
on one side, and the hungry constituent on the
other, all the reflex motion is departing from his
Knees.
There is plenty room for a real Radical
party m N.S.W. Parliament. The Laborists are
m some respects as Tory as the Calico Jimmies,
ihe other night, a motion on the paper had for its
object the stopping of “ deadheads ” on the rail-
ways, and members of Assembly, fearing to vote
against it, practically conspired to block its
coming on. Finding this impossible in the
°r d ! wa y> they sneaked one after another out
of the Chamber till the Speaker had to announce
no quorum.
Why is Premier Lyne so intensely anxious
to make the N.S.W. State Governorship
sovery rich a sinecure? The senior State
of the Canadian Dominion, with nearly
thrice N.S.W.’s population, pays its
local figurehead £2OOO a year. Lyne
"ants to give the cornstalk ornament
£5OOO !! ! What does he think of his
own chance of the billet ? Or is it
intended that Chief Justice Darley
should have it, and if so, who
wants the C.J.’s present billet so
1 adly ? If there is any billet which
should have £5OOO a year attached
it is the Premiership—the billet of
the man who runs the country, not
that of the man who only wears
pretty clothes and shakes the damp,
vulgar hand of the public at recep-
tions.
Apropos the loud demand in
Victoria for “proportional voting”
at the coming Federal elections:
With the present clumsy system
of voting it is quite possible for the
great democratic Vic. majority to
sweep the polls, for the Federal elec-
tions will be based on manhood suff-
rage. The object of proportional vot-
ing is to give the Tory minority its fair
share of representation, which is quite
just in the abstract. But in the pro-
vinces where the Tory party is strong
there is no corresponding movement so as
to give the Democratic minority its fair
share of representation. The movement
is altogether one-sided. Therefore why
not leave things as they are till the Federal
Parliament establishes a uniform voting sys-
tem for all the Commonwealth ?
They still call S. Australia “ the
wheat province,” though it yields, a greater
value of both copper and wool. Last year the
figures per head of population were—Wool,
83s. 3fd. (a big jump, thanks to the active wool
market early in the season); copper, 235. Bfd. ;
wheat, 235. 3fd. Wine is an advancing-item ; it
has reached 4s. 3id. per head. At the end of last
vintage the province’s total stock was 3,521,637
gallons.
Tom Curran, M P., the gilded Sydney ex-
Boniface, having attended a Queen’s garden party
and thereby offended the Irish party in the
Commons, is said to be about to resign his seat
and return to Sydney, “with a view to entering
the Commonwealth Parliament.” How in-
genuous !
The thrust prophetic :
First the love of gain, and then the lust of Empire—
these have been the principles of British colonisation and
the source of innumerable evils.
This is from John Dunmore Lang’s “Freedom
and Independence for the Golden Lands of
Australia ” (1852). This passage was a paraphrase
from the Roman historian Sallust on “Catiline.”
The cabled announcement that Hsu-tung
and Yung-lu have been appointed by the Empress
Dowager to act with Li Hung Chang as peace
negotiators seems to need explanation, seeing that
on Aug. 22 we were told that Hsu-tung had been
beheaded, and that Yung-lu had started to serve
a life sentence.
At Melb. annual Freetrade dinner, on 6th
inst., Murray Smith, M.L.A. (Vic.), who retires
from political life next month, spoke in doleful
strain of the results of his services to the cause.
He made Freetrade a religion instead of a policy,
and could not see that what was good for one
country was not of necessity beneficial to another.
When the whole 14 retiring Yic. M.L.O.’s
were returned without a contest, the other day,
the Abgus called it “ going to the country.” Not
one went near the country. A Yic. M.L.C. goes
out of the door of the House when his term
expires and comes in again a second later amid
cheers as a re-elected man who has been to the
country.
The elaborate provisions for deducting
from the wages of an “ unemployed ” who may be
sent by N.S.W. Govt, to work in the country the
price of his railway journey read absurd alongside
the provisions under which a host of deadheads,
labelled “distinguished,” “privileged,” or what
not, may gad about on the railways from year’s
end to year’s end.
J. H. Syrnon, Adelaide Q.C., for years
the local Conservatives’ Daniel, shocks his old
friends still further by orating at the Trades Hall
and putting this : “ Can any sensible man truly say
that a shilling or two of weekly rental makes the
difference between a person fit to vote for the
Legislature and one not fit ? ” '-This apropos of the
tinkering with the Leg. Council franchise.
Swinburne, the Conservative candidate
brought out to run for Murray Smith’s Hawthorne
seat (the Argus’. white-headed boy being about to
retire from politics) supports Factory legislation,
Woman’s Suffrage, and Council reform. The old
Murray Smith crowd is supporting him, and the
Argus smiles approval. When a Tory candidate
has caught up so far as this, it is time for the
Liberals to hustle.
Kingston is opposed for the S.A. Leg.
Council vacancy in Central district by J. L.
Parsons, who will get the solid Tory vote. Par-
sons was erstwhile the orator of S.A. Parliament,
but he has never been a success since his defeat for
the Northern Territory. Kingston makes House-
hold Suffrage lus battle-cry, and “declines to
pledge himself ” as to whether he will allow
I ederal temptations to turn him from provincial
politics.
There is no “Opposition” in N.S.W.
Leg. Council, strictly so-called ; there “none are
for a party, and all are for the State.” But the
division lists of the last few weeks show that all
the recognised pillars of the Council are agin the
Government. The Tory clique—Pilcher, Want,
M'Laurin, Heydon, Dangar, and others—can
ha „rdly be expected to be wildly enthusiastic over
a Cabinet which admittedly owes its existence to
the grace of the Labor party.
IN “PUSH ” SOCIETY.
"'Ullo! Bin speakin ’ out of yer turn again,
Brophy?"
Mirrool ” : Nut generally known that at
the smoke social, given by the farmers, at the end
of the recent conference in Sydney, much diffi-
culty was experienced in getting a proposer for the
toast of “The Ministry.” Reasons: Minister
Hassall s unpopularity amongst small landholders ;
and the painful squandering upon foreign wars
of money much needed for constructing roads and
railways through the country. Jingoism is not a
strong element amongst the rural population.
Tasmania s Assembly resolved to stand
firm in demanding One-Man-One-Vote at its own
elections, and the House of Landlords decided
not to adhere to the patch it had put on the Con-
THE PATH OF FAME.
“ Oh, here's Mrs. Ditchwater's picture in the
paper !”
My! What's she been cured of?"
stitution Bill restoring- the property-vote. There
has been so little real fight m the island’s polities
that its House of Property is bloated and out of
training', and if the Assembly was a vigorously
progressive body it might do a lot of things before
\its JVL Ij. C. s got their muscle up for a “ mill.”
No one man can for long bear the strain
of representing the Govt, in N.S.W. Leg. Council
when that chamber happens to be bellicose. Mr.
buttor, the present Govt, representative, has come
to the end of his tether, and Mr. Hughes nearly
collapsed during the period the Reid administra-
tion was pleased to profess Federation. If the
Gyne Govt makes an appointment as additional
member of Cabinet, without portfolio, in the
Upper House, it is understood that the post will
be given to R. E. O’Connor, Q.C.
A Maoriland M.H.R. :
• 'v. 1 * 6 ? aus ® afc , if ? sue in S’Africa is supposed to be “ equal
rights for all whites.” But we, who are supposed to be
the most zealous exponents of that ideal, are the people
who crush with coarse vituperation a man who dares to
speak his mind ; it is we who compel foreigners to pay four
times as much as British subjects for licenses to delve
after kauri gum, and who prevent the landing on our
shores of honest foreigners unless they have enough of
the world s goods to keep them for three months !
The Austrian gum-digger is Maoriland’s Uit-
lander, and Maoriland is busy trying its hardest
to squash him by special taxation and otherwise.
The S.A. Govt, has introduced its Bill for
the creation of a popularly-elected Convention to
draft a new State constitution, suitable to the
altered conditions under Federation. This was
one of Kingston’s ideas, and it is one of the
reasons why this paper regards Kingston as the
best practical democrat in Australian politics, and
the one man really qualified for the Federal
Premiership. Kingston has proved himself (1) a
democrat, (2) a democrat with brains, (3) a demo-
crat all the time. And there is no other front-rank
Australian politician of whom all these things can
DO S9/IQ.
Proposed to publicly recognise ex-Premier
i 6K V S to the Federation cause. But
which Reid ? There is a trinity. Is it the leader
“Ouse which bludgeoned the first Bill with
the 80,000 minimum; or the “yes-no” who
stumped the country honestly explaining the
defects of that Bill —said honesty being con-
ciusively proved by his voting for it; or the high-
minded Federalist who, having adroitly manoeuvred
himself into the centre of the limelight, enthused
over the amended Bill ? Which Reid—No-Yes or
Yes-No or Nes-Yo? You can’t embrace all of
them in one testimonial.
Reported that the Two-headed Govt, is
going to make Reform of Vie. Leg. Council its
chief plank at the coming election. It couldn’t
propose a better idea ; in fact that is the only idea
worth considering in Victoria just now. But to
propose Council reform is easy, and to get the
Assembly s constituents to accept the idea is
easier. What Victoria wants to hear about is the
lwo-headed Government’s scheme for inducing or
compelling the Council to pass the Reform Bill
A fighting democrat like Kingston would find
the necessary scheme somewhere, but all that
will probably happen is that Shiels will make a
longer speech than usual.
Q - P rer bi el, Philp gets into a terrible wax
over the opposition to his private-railway bills,
Ihe other day he hysterically asserted that if the
bills were not passed he would resign, and the
judicious Courier promptly suppressed his
SEf 60 * 1 - .Whereupon the Telegraph printed it.
Ihen Philp confusedly asserted that he never said
any such thing Or that if he did he didn’t mean it
—and so on. The unfortunate Q. Govt, has prac-
tmaily one item in its policy, viz, private railways
and that one item seems to be beyond its digestive
capacities. It is an open secret that many of the
Govt, supporters are very lukewarm in their
adhesion to the syndicate-line policy, and the
Oppositionists are strenuous and united The 0
Ministry will do well to remember that'two other
f “. syndicate schemes—the transcontinental
M Bwraith and the gridiron proposals under
the Coalition had to be abandoned.
Tasmania’s Upper
House—so called because
it is on its uppers, in a
mental sense rejected
the proposal to reduce the
State Governor’s salary,
under Federation, from
£3500 to £3OOO, being
moved thereto largely
by the appeal of Davies,
M.L.C., who implored
the Council not to disturb
the good relations exist-
ing between Tasmania
and the Mother-country.
Whether Davies actually
thought the Mother-coun-
try was so degradingly
mercenary that its friend-
ship would be lost over a
matter of £5OO, or whether
he is a sound but unscru-
pulous Democrat who
wanted to heave a gross
insult at England and
didn’t care how he
did it, is difficult to
guess. At all events
his remark is one of
the roughest things
that has been said
about England for a
Ions? time.
S. A. fatmers
never pay their
debts to the State,
and now certain
Royal Commission-
ers are urging that the
land and income tax shall be altered by giving
special concessions to agriculturists. Which is
explained by the fact that owing to an ingenious
division of the province into districts, farmers can
return an absolute majority of members of S.A.
Parliament, although numerically they are not
one-third of the electors.
N.S.W.. Ministers Hassall and O’Sullivan
.should take to the ring and thrash out their anta-
gonistic ideas of constitutional duty. O’S., in about
200 items of public works, boasts of having over-
ridden the reports of his departmental officers.
“As Minister I will exercise my own judgment,”
is his canon. Hassall when charged with malad-
ministration of land exchanges, slammed the-
departmental reports on the table of the Assembly
and vociferated : “If lam not to follow my de-
partmental officers, who am 1 to follow ? ”
Minister See was riled at losing N.S.W.
Fire Brigades Bill on the point that it said one
thing while the Harbor Trust Bill, also before the
House, said another. But in visiting his temper
on the Opposition, who showed him the blunder,
he abused the wrong party. Those in fault are
the Parliamentary draftsman and his staff. Car-,
ruthers, Dick, and other M’s.P. were clearly
within their rights in objecting to a bill, no
matter how good, which violated the rules of Par-
liamentary procedure. And in declining to go
further with the measure by re-introducing it in a
coherent form, Minister See only made himself
look foolish.
G. Republican Dibbs has been cursing the
Reid Govt, because it didn’t allow the Sydney
Harbour Collieries -to sink a shaft and heap up
foul coal-dust on one of the beauty-spots of the
harbour, but made them do it in an obscure but
equally convenient spot in Balmain. He calls
this “dragging the honor and faith of N.S.W. in
the dirt.” Dibbs is actually proud of being the
soulless Hun who proposed putting a coal-mine
conspicuously on top of Paradise, when it would
answer equally well elsewhere ; and he is foolish
enough to. remind the public that he was that
Hun, and that it was his political enemy wt><"> had
the wisdom to prevent this sacrilege.
G. H. Reid, speaking recently at Gran-
ville (N.S.W.), complained that the Lyne Govt,
did not move in the matter of the Plague till
driven to action by a round-robin, signed by its
supporters, whereas, while he was in power he
passed an Act that, had it been enforced (Reid
himself never enforced it), would have enabled
the Health Dept, to step in and compel those
bussex-street people to clear away their filth.
Yet, a little while ago, Reid was furiously con-
demning the Lyne Govt, for being in such a hurry
and not waiting to consult Parliament ere it
moved in the matter of cleansing the city. Same
ol • j es '-N° ! Reid has now had three Plague
attitudes. When the panic began, he was a terri-
fied little fat gent., cursing the Lyne Govt, for its
ineptitude in not moving faster. When the panic
subsided, he got his second wind, and wanted the
Lyne Govt, ejected for being too fast altogether—
so fast that it hadn’t time to be legal. And now
when the warm weather is returning, and the
blowfly is again on the window-pane, and the
Plague is crawling down the Queensland coast
once more, Reid is again angry because the Lvne
Govt, wasn’t fast enough.
THE REAL HERO.
The municipal council of Moama recently-
carried the following resolution :—“That the
gratification of this council be expressed for the
successful carrying through of the Commonwealth
Bill, and that the Hon. E. Barton and Mr. J. M.
Chanter, M.L. A., be congratulated on same being
completed.”
Who first conceived the Federal plan,
And fought for it like any Spartan ?
All know that Chanter was the man—
Why drag in Barton ?
Who, when the patriot fire grew low,
Blew into flame each dying ember?
Thank Heav’n, that famous man we know—
Moama’s member !
When Barton, with a joyous laugh,
Of our new banner was the planter,
Who was the fly upon the staff ?
Why—J. M. Chanter !


The Bulletin lately bewailed what seemed
to be the imminent passing-away of that com-
fortable and favorite nostelry, the York Hotel,
Adelaide. Mr. Roennfeldt, host of the York,
now writes that his widely-known caravansary
is not at all likely to close this side of 1910 ; con-
cerning any later period he can make no promise.
The demand for Zetz Spa Water, which is
compared to the celebrated Victory (Celestius)
Water, although more agreeable in taste, is in-
creasing. Dr. Helens and Will A. Dixon certify
to its quality by analysis being rich in bicarbonate
of sodium and potassium, also lithia; highly
charged with natural carbonic acid gas. Anyone
desiring a pure natural water should try the
beneficial effect of Zetz Spa.
One of the most striking and effective
advertisements at recent Poster Ball in Sydney
was that of “Derby” tobacco, represented by
Messrs. J. F. Roche, Chas. Franklin, jnr., Ellis
Levy and J. E. Willersdorff, of Messrs. J. Kron-
heimer & Co., the agents of the brand. The
quartette was costumed as “old English Beef-
eaters,” with the legend “Smoke Derby Tobacco”
strikingly displayed from head to foot, and was a
really solid portrayal of a solid article.*
The “ Numurkah ('V ic.) Tragedy ” is rather
a throw-in for Parson Gladstone, of Nathalia.
Two young men came to blows over the question
of a lady partner for the next waltz, and one young
man got fatally injured in falling through a win-
dow-pane. _ Which clearly proves, from Rev. G.’s
point of view, that dancing is a devilishly dan-
gerous amusement. It inflames the passions and
leads to occasional destruction.
N.S.W. Public Service still chuckles over
the dilemma in which Govt. Architect Vernon
finds himself over his award in the competition
for designs for Brisbane hospital, when he un-
wittingly gave first prize to a subordinate on his
own office staff. As recently mentioned, the
Govt. Architect had just previously certified to
the Public Service Board that there was not in the
dept, an officer capable of assuming an office now
vacant at £3OO a year. The Govt. Architect
announced to the Board that, as it was imperative
that a smart man be obtained at once, they had
better advertise in England for him. The fact
that six to nine months must elapse before the im-
ported genius could possibly reach these benighted
shores was evidently no reason against taking
this step. The point in the affair that annoys the
service—more especially the professional division
—so much was the certificate that no one therein
under the £3OO mark was capable of taking up the
work. The statement was practically a black
mark against them, and they consider the award
of the £4OO prize in an open contest as a complete
vindication. The winner is in receipt of onlv
£2OO a year.
We thought that we had come to the end
of tire innumerable photos and pictures of Roberts
and Kitchener that have flooded the market, but
the American Tobacco Co. of N.S.W. Ltd.,
announce that they will give an art portrait in
bas-relief of Roberts or Kitchener to anyone send-
ing them 50 empty Cameo cigarette boxes. The
photos are remarkably good, and well worth
keeping.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
Major Spencer-Browne (a Q. contingent
officer) in Brisbane Courier (re Boers)
I never want to meet kinder, more hospitable and more
comfortable people. True, some of them are poor and
ignorant; but the general run of them live comfortably
rear their families well and with fair education. They are
the reverse of what we have been taught to consider them.
It will be a happy day for Australia when our pastorai
country is settled by as fine a class of people.
That phrase, “the reverse of what we have been
taught to consider them,” contains a damning
indictment against the Courier itself and kindred
journals.
VITADATIO
The Great Blood Purifier.
A Stricture of 25 Years’ Standing,
Fistula, and Rupture.
INEFFECTUALLY TREATED IN LONDON AND
SYDNEY HOSPITALS.
Cured by Vitadatio- Investigate this Case*
52 Goodhope-street, Paddington,
„ „ , , Sydney, April 6, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER,
Vitadatio Institute, 184 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Dear Sir, —It affords me the greatest pleasure to testify
to the wonderful curative properties of Webber’s Vita-
datio, for which you are the sole Australasian distributor.
For 25 years I suffered with STRICTURE. At last I had
to go into a Sydney hospital. Underwent an operation
but derived no benefit. Shortly after leaving the hospital
a fistula formed, which also caused me great pain. Dur-
ing a gale at sea I had the misfortune to become
RUPTURED on BOTH SIDES. Returning to Sydney, I
again entered the hospital, and remained there for five
(5) months, undergoing another painful operation, from
which I derived no benefit. In this state I determined to
try VITADATIO. The third bottle began to make itself
felt, and I took nine bottles with me to sea. My friends
never expected to see me again alive, but to-day I am in
better health than I have been for the past 25 years, and
have increased in weight from 9st. 61b. to over 13st. This
is entirely due to Webber’s Vitadatio, and it cannot be
too widely published. lam well known in Sj'dney, and
you are at liberty to publish this for the benefit of others.
In conclusion, my friends in Vancouver were so astonished
at my recovery that they have ordered me to obtain a
supply from you for them.—Yours truly
(Signed) GEO. BUTCHER.
Mr. Butcher will be glad to answer any questions
relative to his case at the above address.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s 6d; Small Size, 3s 3d.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s 3d.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
*yASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
ROW’S EMBROCATION
Testimonial from “A” Battery, R.A.A.
EDW. ROW, Esq., Sydney. Dpmgton, South Africa, 10th Augurt, 1900.
Dear Sir.—Your Embrocation, which you presented “ A ” Battery, E.A.A., with on.leaving Sydney for South
Africa, came in very useful on board ship. I continually used it for swollen legs, and found it excellent in
reducing the swelling ; and also while travelling through the country it was very useful indeed, both for sores on
horses and the men. It is also a splendid cure for sprains. A lot of our men have used it for that cause with
instant relief. We have still one bottle left, and
IT IS TREASURED LIKE GOLD.
Thanking you for your gift, I remain, yours truly,
(Sg.) M. ROSS, SERGEANT FARRIER, “A ’’ BATTERY,
no ir i ~, . , ~ , . ROYAL AUSTRALIAN ARTILLERY.
P.B. —You can make use of this letter whatever way you like.—M.R.
THIS UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIAL FROM Me. SERGEANT-FARRIER ROSS ONLY REPEATS THE
EXPERIENCES OF MANY THOUSANDS WHO HAVE BENEFITED BY USING
ROW’S EMBROCATION
SOLE PROPRIETORS: EDW. ROW and CO.
ASK FOR
LEA & PERRINS’
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE.
Agents—'VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & 00., Sydney.
RECORD ORDER for TYPEWRITERS
121
.. YOSTS
This order has just been given by
Her Majesty’s Government for
Yost Typewriters, after the famous
machine had been thoroughly
tested alongside other makes.
ie
&
m
This is the Clearest Proof of the Sterling 1 Value of the Yost Typewriter.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
114 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane: Webster & Co. ; Adelaide: Reeves & Co.; Launceston : Hedley Button.
tsr Agents also for the NEW CENTURY and DENSMORE .
MERCHANTS!
EEAD
“ I may say that the Register is giving
me every satisfaction, and the system of dis-
counts on cash purchases is much appreciated
by my customers, cash sales having increased
materially since using the Register.”
T. PARKIN, Storekeeper, Corowa, N.S.W.
MARK
“ I have had the Cash Register for nearly
twelve months, and am pleased with it. It
fulfils every expectation I had regarding it.”
PAUL WILKINSON, Chemist,
, . Maryborough, Vic.
LEAEJST
** We are pleased to inform you that the
two National Cash Registers are doing their
work splendidly. They are most accurate,
and the more we use them the better we like
them. We feel quite sure their merits have
only to be known to insure their adoption by
every up-to-date business man.”
CAMPBELL BROS. & CO., Butchers,
Toowoomba, Q.
... INWARDLY DIGEST 1
M
E
Be UP-TO-DATE, or you will
GO BEHIND.
Write for particulars and Price List (from
£5 up) of the
NATIONAL
Cash Register
TO
HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE:
335 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
W. A. LINCHAM, General Manager.
STOP VIBRATION
BY RIDING
DUN|OP T*RES
BISWARKjfjr IMITA I lONS.
[ DuniqpTyreT
EXPERIENCED
CYCLISTS
The Best
Tyres
ĥsh
sg
9
Know that it is not the miles that are travelled, but the vibration
that fatigues. Stop the vibration, and you lessen the work of pro-
pelling your machine fully 30 per cent.
for absorbing vibration— and consequently the fastest and most
comfortable— are
Duniqp Tyres
the material
used in their construction placing them far in advance of all other
tyres for Road and Track Riding.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
ISO CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z


The audacity of lovely woman. In a
recent London law case it transpired that a 60-
year-old wife had, for financial reasons, gone
through a pretence of adding a unit to the popula-
tion. As there was a matter of £lO,OOO hanging
to the existence of her alleged infant the wonder
was that she didn t strengthen her reversionary
interest by having twins.
According to Melbourne Tocsin it has
been discovered at this late hour that many
Victorian laud-titles contain the reservation that
whatever lands the State requires for road, canal
and railway purposes must be surrendered without
compensation . It would he interesting to find out
if this proviso extends all over the province and
if so, how many millions Victoria may have fooled
away m compensation by not discovering it earlier
A striking instance of the fearsome calibre
of ex-Democrat Glassey’s mind was supplied by
his principal argument against the Callide con-
cessions. Glassey actually argued that the opening
up of such coal-measures as those of Callide would
be a bad business, because it would tend to bring
down the price of coal, and so in the long run
iower the rate of wages. This allegedly sane
politician wants to lock up the unopened mineral
resources of Australia to all futurity.
■ woman who changed her mind last
happened in a South Island (Maoriland) town.
Apparently it wasn’t malice in her case, or a de-
sire for revenge, or anything else save stage-fright.
She got on very well with the marriage-service
until the critical point was reached, and then she
suddenly burst into tears, cried out “No” in a
shrill voice, and ran for her life. Loving friends
who happened to be between her and the door
were upset promiscuously. The bride only wanted
to be alone, and she got away out of the township,
and hid herself behind a fence, and filled in the
rest of the day with hysterics.
S.M. Herald is plainly opposed to the
local appointment of State Governors
It is recognised that when the Governor-General is
sworn in the office of State Governor will be shorn of
much of its importance. . . . there are some people who
think that the office of State Governor should be kept
open for local men as a reward for high public services.
On the other hand, marly people say that if local men are
appointed local prejudices and jealousies will he created,
and thus detract from the dignity of the office. In N S W
political circles many members of'both Houses are strongly
opposed to the idea of the appointment of local men as
btate Governors, as they strongly uphold the maintenance
of the connection which at present exists between the
P ol ,°, n y al j <l the Brifc ish Crown. In addition to that they
hold that each Governor who returns to England becomes
an earnest advocate of the aims and aspirations of the
colony, and is, therefore, a valuable advocate.
Sydney Daily Telegraph takes the opposite
view:—
There is ostensibly no reason at all why the practice of
sending men from England to fill the position of State
Governor should be continued under Federation while
several may be cited to the contrary We do not
want the vice-regal offices in these colonies made a happy
hunting-ground for aristocratic pickers-up of unconsidered
trifles mthe way of State sinecures. Much better that
the State Governorship should be the honest prize of
Australian public men who earn it in the service of the
State, and for whom the present guerdon is usually
nothing better than a meaningless title.
By the way, the head of the house of Fairfax has
“a meaningless title.”
Si
LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD 18 STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
FDGFG
(/dtfltti
FDGFD
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
BTOGDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders
Lane, Melbourne, & 422, George St., Sydney.
1 A BEAUTIFUL fabric.
1 I ME
Louis’ Velveteen.
******* ** <A <A «>* 0\ I»\ *\ o\ ✓«.
NOTE WELL! -Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-O-LH-S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
E4/y
MEMORY,
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
ft' Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
42 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
TESTIMONIALS.
Mr. W. LAKE, Student, Hobart—“ By its aid I can
now do with ease and certainty that which was almost
impossible. I find it a WONDERFUL HELP in learning
languages.”
Mr. A. H. Brown, Constitution Hill, Tas.—“ History
with its dates was always my dread in exams., but by
your system I have gained 92 per cent, of the possible in
it. I also used it in geography, Latin, &c., with equally
good results. It is easily learned, and cannot be for-
gotten.”
Rev. W. E. BROMILOW, New Britain.—“ It has greatly
strengthened my natural memory. By it I learnt the
almanac for the year in about two minutes, and can give
instantly the day of any date, and vice versa. Its use
must be of great assistance to students.”
1.0. F
L.B.C
.Or DER
Registered under the “Companies
Act, 3890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S.A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, ever £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £838,581.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKIIA, M.D., J.P.
Supreme Chief Ranger.
INDEPENDENT ORDER » FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 5% Vic. and 59 Vic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The 1.0. P. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, but also for Disability and Old Age Pension
All Premium paying in the 1.0. P. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability.
EXAMPLES:
.£lOO Policy.
/Age 18 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
/Monthly Ppemium Is. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd. 2s. lid. 3s. 6d. 4s. 4d. 6s. Id.
Policies for .£lOO, £2OO, £4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
Office
J.
f
foe South Australia :
H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. IVIcNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St>, Melbourne.
Office for New South Wales :
W, G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 George St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus , with full Table of Pates , <&c., ow A.pplicatiou.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
TI3[B FAMOUS REMJEJDY FOR.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST ™—*--* 9
HAS
Those who have taken this medicin
MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful mdlm3d?atoreiiS wh® 6 ' f ™ l f 1 * >n “ of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength AC'Sjit leithev _°" *• Chest it as invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. -
“I" b r en 6XISt Wkore “ Cou S hs " have been Properly treated with this medicine,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
It is most com-
XT . , - ...... ■ , , , f Consumption has
JNo house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
OP COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. ” ’’ ’ "
Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
(Lake
(LIMITED),
IHawarra)
“ear SYDUEY
SMELTERS
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
W
'
PfeSf \
.
SlSilSlillSß
MAKERS OP
“ S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchase™ of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID IOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGRELMEN Tof ASSAYS
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd.,
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food m
INFANTS
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Go., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
AMD
the aged.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN !
AWAY FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALISI,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSIXIUSSeiI)
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 68., 128., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimple l and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts —Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal aud
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the salue time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE: 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
MELBO UIiNE : 150 Bourke-street (opp. Eastern Markets).
ADELAIDE : 151 Bundle-street (near York Hotel),
wz. WELLINGTON : 91 Lambton Quay.
I’E Ill'll: Hay-street (opposite Wiedenbach’s).
KALGOORLIE ; Hannan-street (next Lindell’s).
BOULDER CITY : Fiesse-street.
FREMANTLE ; Henry-street.
If Rumor isn’t incurably perverse, it will
be just as well for members of N.S.W. Assembly
to turn a frequent eye on the Govt, and its
honorary Lord Howe Island magistrate. lhe
bond only gives that ex-politician travelling ex-
penses, but members should, from month to
month, ask how much these come to.
“L.” to The Bulletin
The prevalent neglect in sending-children to the N.S.W.
country schools could be remedied if the local
acted up to instructions. When “ truant-officers were
abolished the police were supposed to take up the work
of dealing with defaulters by obtaining information from
the teacher and by visiting the defaulting parents. The
teacher, however, in order to live on good terms with the
residents has to overlook a lot and avoid, as far as pos-
sible, doing what is popularly considered the department s
“ dirty work.” It is foolish, anyhow, for the officers of
the Dept, to say that the compulsory clause of the Edu-
cation Act does not give power to grapple with the e\ il,
so long as the power it does give is so seldom applied.
The P.I. Act certainly empowers School Boards to report
defaulters, but as the members of these are general y
local business men they don’t “see” it. Why should
they make enemies and lose trade that pays for the sake
of doing a duty that doesn’t pay T ?
Thus H. C. Shelley, war-correspondenfc of
Westminister Gazette :
I have reached England again with only one desire
about South Africa, and that is that I may never see it
again. Out of the 200,000 British soldiers in South
Africa, I opine that more than ninety per cent, will turn
their backs on the country with the same desire. In-
deed, it is safe to affirm that the bulk of those men will
harbor for manv years such a loathing for the country as
would almost make the bribery of them into silence a
desirable speculation, on the part of any who may be in-
terested in attracting British settlers thither. What a
nightmare of desolation fills the mind when it recalls the
memory of that 600 miles railway ride from Capetown to
Modder River ! It is one long-drawn panorama of utterly
barren country. Wide expanses of arid land, dotted
sparsely with little wisps of the stunted Karoo bush, blink
in the glare of a merciless sun. Men, or signs of their
existence, may assail the sight once or twice in 100 miles,
but the chances are against even such widely-separated
breaks in the monotony of your journey. You might be
travelling in a world of the dead, through the vacant
mountains and over the dried ocean beds of the moon.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEO
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion V If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are .swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I ( AN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
•ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/1 jd. per b.»x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents •. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green laLel on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Medical.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
vzv
MEDICATOK.
/CATARRH is inflammation of the
' lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smeli, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Catarrb C6rc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been awarded 100 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases- especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by CrRIMAULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Dr. Boxwell’s PILLS.
AT ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Druggists,
292 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Medical.
OR. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, saya:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forma
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
vz
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
vzv
r Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
/ Proprietor:- STEPHEN GREEN,
S 2lO Lambeth Kd., London, S.B.
/ Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
/ Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
/ should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering EUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mrs. WALSH E’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
IT'HESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, 6s. 6d.
per box. Write to A. C. Co., 539 Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says : “Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
inventor of Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Eegs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
use Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
for all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. lid. and 2S. od. each of all Drug-
stores. 0
Sole Makers.” BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPort, England.
fflD
DEAF
ma FDGFD
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
r to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.


~ THE RECORD of the past makes
- HARRIS the Bicycle of the future.
Our fifty-three years of experience and fair
dealing is the guarantee.
Factories—Toronto, Oiinad*. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Aeenei ß » S?^7 Melbou l ne ' By * ne y- Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almoßt everywhere Art Catalogue posted tree on application.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 385 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
SYDNEY
Evidence From a Family.
MOTHER AND SON SPEAK.
Mrs. S. Gardiner, of 70 Green-street, Rich-
mond, Victoria, writes :—“ For many years I have
Buffered from biliousness, sick headache and
morning nausea, and for which complaints I have
tried many patent remedies, and had doctors’
advice, but all to no purpose, as nothing I took
appeared to do me any permanent good. About
nine months ago I saw Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills advertised, and doubtfully gave them a trial.
After the first doses the nausea fled, and the head-
aches disappeared ; after taking one bottle and a
half I felt quite well again. I may also state that
my son, aged eighteen, who has suffered since
childhood from urinary troubles, has been taking
the. Pills, and he has derived more benefit from
their use than from any other remedy he has tried.
He was operated. upon at one of our public
hospitals, but left it as bad as when he entered ;
he intends to persevere with Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, and if they do not cure him per-
manently nothing else will.” Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills stand alone as a perfect blood purifier,
and positively cure biliousness, indigestion, head-
aches, sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, and blotches. Price, Is. l|d. per
bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole proprietors,
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian
Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. They are packed
in amber bottles, and full name blown thereon.*
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO.,
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
RICHMOND, VICTORIA;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
IT’S AIN OLD GAME
to give the boys free rides to holloa for your donkey. Some cycle dealers still follow this idea.
WE SELL BED BIRD BICYCLES
to those who race, as well as to the easier-going riders.
laqfj 6 nnH fhprp’fif records, but we hold all the selling records in Austra-
AT A FAIR PRTnF y THE BBST BICYCLE ON THE MARKET
bicyde for a I™° BEAUTYB CHARIOT! the Ladies’ RED BIRD! is the only correct
Branches:
Swanston-street, Melbourne, Vio.
Rundle-street, Adelaide, S.A.
Edward-street, Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Goold Bicycle Co.,
64 King* Street, Sydney-
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A.J.C. Spring Meeting at Rand wick ended on
Saturday. The weather was excellent, and the attend-
ance reached 11,000. Nothing marred matters ; the only
fall the big jumping race produced was a harmless one.
All winning nags were backed, some at long odds ; hence
Mo, though perhaps finishing something ahead, didn’t get
enough in most instances to clear him over the week.
High weight Hancidap (6 fur.) started the show. Myoso-
tis went out at fours, and Plain Tom a point longer.
Mark Foy’s Ireland’s Eye was next—lo’s being taken
often. Backers punted freely, coming at about a dozen
others. Northern district Lennox—Herda gelding An-
dorra (12 to 1 against) got going first, and was never
headed, winning comfortably by a length, with Wootton’s
Scientist second, and first favourite (Myosotis) third.
Time (1.15) was fast. Members’ Handicap, for 3-year-olds
exclusively, went to Bengonia (10 to 1), who did well
among 2-year-olds last season. Ike Earnshaw’s Lyddite
was only a head behind, with Tom Payten’s Lord Rudolph
a neck further away. ’Twas an exciting finish. All three
fought out every inch from the distance. Favourite (2 to
1. against) Patronage had no hope, and couldn’t get
nearer than fourth, eight yards from Rudolph. Writer
thinks Australian Colors might have won but for being
turned t’other way at start, and losing any number of
lengths thereby; even then he decreased the gap con-
siderably. Bulletin readers should watch this colt in
Melb. during next few months.
* * * *
Second Steeplechase (3 miles) proved unevent-
ful. Field was poor in numbers and quality. Favorite—
The Toff (2 to 1 against)—cantered home at finish
100yds. in front of Quondong, who showed a dozen yards •
between himself and A.G. Victorian mare, Belle, fol-
lowed her luck up ; in first Steeple (Metrop. day) she hit
the jump hard and dislodged her rider. Saturday she
baulked a little over a mile from home (when leading and
looking all over a winner) and ran off. Irish Boy came a
cropper at the last fence a few lengths behind ultimate
winner. “Bill” Forrester’s Carbine—Hera six-year-old
nag, War God (at 10 to 1) scored his maiden win in Waver-
ley Handicap (If miles), and got it easily by five lengths
in 3min. 3Jsec.—just the fraction behind the best Australian
time for the distance. War God has always been expected
to do something like this, but though capable enough he
could never be caught in the humor. He is in both Oup3,
and will have to carry 71b. penalty for Saturday’s perform-
ance. Johansen was favorite at 7 to 2 and dubbed a
“ moral ” by those behind him, but finished a long way in
the rear. Alix (7 to 1), second, and Nevermore (10 to 1),
third, carried plenty money. S’Rupert Clarke’s Paul Pry
annexed Randwick Plate (2i miles) by eight lengths from
Tarquin. Barbarossa twice ran right across the course at
the turn, losing several lengths each time and completely
upsetting whatever chance he had. Time, 4min. 43sec.
Ranfurly (same owner as Paul Pry), with 9.4 up and
W. Powell in saddle, started a hot favorite (6 to 2
against) for Final Handicap (1J miles) and finished first
—three lengths ahead of Sam Fielder’s big disappoint-
ment, St. Clare, who was one-and-a-half lengths in front
of Bombshell. Time, 2min. lOsec.
* * * •
Victoria’s small team made a big impression at
A.J.C. meeting. N.S.W. w.f.a. reps, were not in it with
the visitors, who also secured a good share of handicaps.
Malster’s win of Derby, Ranfurly’s win of two handicaps,
and Paul Pry’s four victories give Vic. trainer Scobie a
big lift. Sagacity—one of Metrop-day winners—is in
same stable as Lancaster who got home previous Satur-
day. Hautboy (first in two events), though trained in
Sydney, belongs to a Victorian ; thus about half the pro-
gramme went to nags owned down South. Randwick
trainers had a bad time, bar Lamond, who prepared
Reviver (winner of Metrop.), and Duggan who looks after
Johansen. N.S.W. winners Oberon, Loch Olievedon,
Centurion, Andorra, Bengonia, The Toff and War God
were trained away from Randwick.
* * * *
Despite the fact that S’Rupert’s horses got away
with six big races at A.J.C. Spring meeting, the Vic.
baronet was only a good second when cheques were given
out. Mt. Morganaire Hall (per medium of Reviver’s un-
expected triumph in Metrop.) secured the greatest haul
(£2144) ; S’Rupert’s winnings totted up £2114. Alto-
gether, Victorian owners scooped £5742 of the £13,162
given away. Westralia gets £375 through Tarquin. Out
of his winnings Mr. Hall (who really ought to spell his
name with a “ u”), has given £lOOO to found a cot (the
‘ Reviver ”) in Sydney Children’s Hospital.
• • * •
Mount Morgan Hall’s win of the Metrop. with
Reviver was only in keeping with the millionaire’s past
phenomenal luck. If the race were run a hundred times
Reviver would probably not again win once, as there were
horses locked up in the bunch which, with a fair run,
would have smothered him.
* * • •
At least one horse which started in the Metrop.
was in so crippled a condition that writer heard a
prominent trainer express fears of a fall and a big acci-
dent. The question comes in, how far the committee
would be responsible for allowing a crippled horse to start
amongst 30 runners, in the event of his falling and being
the cause of a fatality.
* * * *
The field (30) for this year’s Sydney Metrop.
was the biggest on record. Previous bests were 27, m
Cravat’s and Cremona’s years, and 25 in ’92, when distance
was brought down from 2 to 1£ miles.
* * * •
Tarquin’s finish in last furlong of Metrop
when he got inside three-quarters of a length from the
winner was a revelation. Just how good this NeckersgaF
—Tarpeia nag is nobody can possibly gauge from his
A.J.C. meeting form.
• * * *
“Bill” Long’s tip for Metrop., Cyanide or
Prince Carbine. One finished third and other 30th. His
Caulfield prophecy, Mora or The Chief, may be one or two
better.
* • * •
One of the biggest surprises of A. J.C. meeting
was War God’s success on Saturday in Waverley Hep.
He previously started in over 30 races, and run through
three seasons without scoring once—though placed ten
times, and fourth In each of two Melb. Cups. His win
was little or no good to anyone bar Mo, whose exultant
screech started when War God headed the field and never
ceased till the “ weight ” flag was flown.
• * * *
After their recent performances at Randwick,
Cyanide, Malster, Hautboy, Lancaster and War-God must
all be considered to have a good “ look-in ” for the Caul-
field or the Melb. Cup—whichever they may start for.
Dandy, Mora, and The Chief may also prove dangerous *
the latter will probably ere long perform much better
than he did when Mora beat him for second money on
Thursday last. At this meeting he showed neither bril-
liancy nor dash in any of his races.
* * * »
Ampiers “godfather” evidently knew more
about horses than electricity. Ampere (an electrical
measurement) was no doubt suggested by the dam’s name
Electric Light.
* • * *
Backers of Ampier were not the only unwilling*
winners at A.J.C. meeting. On Metrop. Day, ’tis said, a
sporting member of N.S.W. Ministry had a commission
for Myosotis, and, through a misunderstanding, backed
it to win £4OOO instead of £2OOO ; subsequently he tried
to lay off the difference, but could only get rid of £3OO
He was therefore left with £l7OO, which he had the
gratification of banking next day, plus or minus the
results of other investments.
* » • *
Night before recent A.J.C. Epsom Handicap a
Sydney sport was standing outside the Criterion upon the
Dam ,P l ,® r ” in g'as-M design is prominent.
Suddenly lights on letter “D” disappeared and “am-
pier stood forth. Sport straightway went and secured
the top of the market; he is a backer of “ offices ” hence-
torch.
Millers Racing Chboniole shows no reason
why Hautboy should have been a hot pot for A.J.O.
Derby with Malster in the race. Malster started only five
times last season. In the Debutant Stakes at Caulfield,
when the Ballarat youngster wasn’t nearly fit, he ran un-
placed. So did Hautboy. Five months later, at V.R.O.
autumn meeting, Malster reappeared and won two races
easily, beating Haulette and Finland, after the latter had
downed Hautboy at even weights. Next month, at Rand-
wick, Malster concluded his 2-year-old career with a
couple of “ seconds” to Haulette and Hautesse. In the
one case he was giving 121b5., in the other 231bs. to the
winner. Hautboy showed his best “ form ” last year,
before Malster was ripe. On their respective records since
Ist March the Derby betting might very well have been in
favor of the Victorian horse, as against Tom Payten’s un-
certain gee-gee.
* * * •
Victorian jock. W. Powell topped the list at
A.J.O. meeting—riding 6 winners. F. Kuhn was up on 4
and R. Lewis brought 3 home.
* * * #
Several of the runners at the late A. J.C. meeting
received stiff jorums of whisky before starting, War God
being given nearly three-fourths of a bottle—with the
result that, for once, he ran up to private form and lost
his “ maiden "-certificate. Memo, for teetotallers.
• * • •
Rarely is Mo got at so completely as on Thurs-
day, last week, at Rand wick. Craven Plate came on just
after lunch. Books were anxious to rake in as much as
possible before backers went away to feed, and as some
one put a big lump on Tarquin, they concluded he was a
sure starter. Heaps at 6 and sto 4 and evens were laid
against Paul Pry and snapped up by somebody who evi-
dently knew something. Suddenly Tarquin’s and Dandy’s
numbers disappeared from the frame. Mo was paralysed
for a moment or two, but when he pulled himself toge-
ther certain people caught a hot time as far as “ lang-
widge ” could provide it; then bookie asked 6 to 2 and
3to 1 “ on.” The race was only a common every-day
exercise canter for the favorite, who simply did what he
liked with the rest of the field. Of course the big money
placed on Tarquin had to be refunded. That little inci-
dent won’t be forgotten for many a day by those who
“ fell in."
* * * *
“ Spare-me-days : ” It makes one’s heart bleed
to think of the terrible day the books had last Thursday,
when five races were won at Randwick by absolute
favorites and the sixth by well-backed Johansen. And to
crown matters, a gang of counterfeiters were swindling
the lambs with bogus tickets. Cruel 1
* * * *
A nice game was played on “books” on first
three days of recent A.J.O. meet. Several Mo’s found
themselves paying wagers over twice—especially when
betting on w.f.a. events—and couldn’t fathom the swin-
dle. Eventually one sized it up and put the “d’s” on
the scent, with the result that arrests were effected and
part of the money recovered. Modus was for one operator
to stand behind a particular Mo. who did good biz and
watch wagers entered. Another stood in front, and when
—for instance—someone came along and laid £2O to £lO
(cash) on Paul Pry—getting, say, ticket No. 801, man at
back looking over the book would quickly give man in
front the ‘ ‘ office,"and latter would receive 20s. to 10s. “on,”
receiving ticket No. 804 ; then they’d adjourn to the
lavatory, rub the 4 off and (having necessary type and ink
complete) substitute 1; pencil mark indicating shillings
would be erased, and £ inserted. Immediately race was over
genuine owner of the £3O might go and have a drink on
the strength of his luck, or might not rush straight away
to collect; anyhow, he wouldn’t be on the spot as quickly
as the sharper, who’d present the ticket while crowd was
squeezing to collect, and, number and amount being
correct, would get away with the spoil. Real winner
comes along later, and as there was no disputing his
genuineness, Mo could only smile and pay up. Thing was
worked extensively and cleverly until some of those con-
cerned were caught red-handed in the lavatory (with
type, ink and other necessaries), rubbing numerals off
tickets obtained for impending race. Only events such
as those which Paul Pry, Hautboy, or Ranfurly won (as near
certainties as can be) were availed of. Writer has a hazy
recollection that something similar occurred in Melbourne
eight years ago.
* » * *
The dodge by which Mo was swindled at A. J.C.
meeting may have been suggested by the same thing
worked in ’Frisco recently. One big firm lost “ thou-
sands of dollars” while others were “very hard hit.”
Three of the gang were arrested, but hadn’t been dealt
with when mail left.
* * * *
“Punter” : The fact that the late Alf. Joseph
left £72,000 brings to mind the much-interviewed pen-
ciller’s stereotyped information to pressmen after big
events that “ a lot of money was taken out of the ring.”
Most Mo’s who die poor are reduced to that condition
through bad mining or other specs., rattling the box,
“busted” banks, and too often figuring as backers
instead of sticking to their own game. Writer wouldn’t
mind wagering that he could put his hand on a group of
the leather-lunged any time this week who could each
foot a cheque for five figures.
• • • *
The ill-luck of the Turanville stud, recently
commented on, has further extended to the loss of
the brood-mare Persephone, which in her time pro-
duced some real gallopers.
• * • £
About the best nag in Westralia just now
appears to be 6-yr. old Jay Rye (by Jacinth—Romany
Rye). With 8.5 up he lately won the Goldfields L.V. Cup
(1 mile), worth 150 sovs., and same day (carrying 9.5)
gathered in 100 sovs. per medium of Farewell Handicap
(7 fur.). Public were on him heavily each time. Jack
Rye was a hack once, and is said to have humped his
owner(awelterweight)from Guildford toFremantle(W.A.)
and back, and on occasions did general service—parti-
cularly as one of a tandem team. Owner Towton got him
for 20 guineas, and had him on stud duty for a couple of
years when he was not utilised for show purposes, at
which game he scored well in prizes. A thousand would
barely buy him now.
» * * *
Details of “ Havilah ’’.(N.S.W.) White’s action
in scratching Lochiel mare Old Clo’ from Liverpool Cup
on the eve of that event—she being then first favorite-
are to hand. Proceeding smacks of “ Bill ” Long’s “ I’ll
do as I like with my own,” but there are extenuating
circs. H. 0. did what any sensible man similarly situated
would have done. He had Skopos in same race) and that
nag had demonstrated his capacity for humping big
burdens by running third to Diamond Jubilee and
Chevening, in Eclipse Stakes, at Sandown, not a month
before. When punters began to come at Old Clo’, Mr.
White warned them, and gave good reasons, but these
were unheeded. Result, however, bore out the correct-
ness of his view, for the other string (Skopos) won. The
virtuous indignation of some sections of the ’Ome press
would be amusing if it wasn’t so ridiculous. London
Sportsman authority defends Mr. White’s action, and
urges that ’twas the proper thing to do. After the “ Cup,’*-
the owner of winner sent fizz to press-room, but “ fourth
estate ” (though not quite to a man) weren’t having any.
Hymettus and Dewey both won Coongy Handi-
cap prior to their victories in Caulfield Cup. The Handi-
cap is 1 m. 3 fur., run at Sandown Park on 10th Oct.
Given a good field, it is worth while noting for public
form. History does sometimes repeat itself.
Our old friend, Merloolas, is getting along cre-
ditably in India. Last month he won Colombo Cup, a
mile race, as well as a 6-furlongs’ flutter. In another
event Merloolas ran second to the Australian bred Gnullo,
after beating him for the Cup aforesaid.
* • * *
Crack Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) hounds of year—
Braddon’s Blot and Booty—were both beaten in big stake
of Sanger testimonial meeting at Belmore (Sydney) on
Friday. Booty was unlucky in a bad slip that gave
Bathurst dog Ladas 6 lengths start after poor game,
which he quickly caught and killed, giving t’other no
chance. Winner of this and Braddon’s Blot contested
deciding course. Race to “puss” was the keenest seen
for a long time. Braddon’s Blot got there first —barely
half-a-length to the good—and seemed to pile up points,
but Ladas received the prize. Crowd didn’t like the
decision and boohooed ; which reminds that judging in
both N.S.W. and Vic. hasn’t been up to the mark this
season, glaring mistakes being frequent. Bad judging
atop of the little games some owners have been up to will
soon break the back of the boom.
* * • •
Fight between two coal-skinned middleweights
—ancient Starlight and coming “Ike” Stewart
—at Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney), Monday night, drew a
crowd so tightly packed that it fairly sweltered. As a
boxing match the thing was decidedly “off,” though
willing and determined enough. It was a case of Greek
meeting Greek ; each apparently wanted to tear the
other’s heart out —they fought so viciously. There was
no clean hitting—all through they’d shape up, rush,
clinch, wrestle, tug, shove and bore till a fat, sweating,
panting referee would force them asunder. The two
bruisers cuddled and squeezed each other and tried to
stuff dirty gloves down each other’s throats till the affair
palled upon one. Starlight’s 25 years’ experience stood
to him and kept his end up slightly for perhaps three-
quarters of an hour, but he got limper and limper every
round after the twelfth, and was in a sorry plight before
the end came. Ike didn’t seem much better. Stewart
got the verdict at the end of the 20th round, whereupon
Star, struck an Ajax-defying-the-lightning attitude and
began talking in a manner decidedly uncomplimentary to
the management and the opposing side. Then trouble
began—everybody seemed to be fighting everybody else
as writer frantically squeezed his way out through the
tiers of benches and into the night.
* * * »
“Old Timer”: Starlight-Stewart affair, Mon-
day night, was a floundering, sickening scramble—
twasn’t a fight at any stage. Two very black men very
spitefully tried to get as near dismembering each other
as the referee would let them—they didn’t trouble about
rul es- Starlight evidently had only one hand (the right),
and though t’other chap owned two he never thought of
doing much else with them than hug his friend’s neck,
body, or arms. Writersaw Star., at Larry Foley’s White
Horse gymnasium (years ago), make a fairly close fight
with such men as Jim Hall, and put up a good spar with
Fitzsimmons. Starlight has been round the world since,
and stayed in London a year or two, but isn’t, by long
chalks, the man he was. Fraternising with blue blood in
the N.S.C. seems to have had as bad an effect upon Star,
as upon most Australian pugs; or is it that load of years he
carries ? Star, says he’s 50, but writer won’t have it, as
few black men really know their ages, and this one doesn’t
look more than 40,
* * * *
So-called mill at Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney),
Saturday, 'tween “Monty” Andrews and “Jummer”
Farrell (picturesque monnikers !) was anything- but a
match—’twas a burlesque. Farrell proved a punching-bag
for Andrews, who got all over his man, but couldn’t hit
hard enough to dint butter. Still, the frequent smacks,
together with the fact that —for one in no condition—
Farrell was compelled to jig round smartly, told their
lx^h roun( * saw powerless to straigh ten-up,
and his opponent (whom a one-time Sydney authority
boomed as a prospective second Griffo) powerless to
etraighten-out the limp and feeble mass in front of him ;
so the referee stopped the one-man show and gave the
palm to Andrews. Sydney has been getting a big dose of
this sort of thing for a long time, and the question is how
long Sydney means to stand it. Bruising bouts are only
attractive when judgment is exhibited in arranging them.
Black Pluto (now in Melb.) and Sydney
‘Rocks” erstwhile newsboy “Cocker” Tweedie are
matched for Oct. 5, at Gaiety A.C. (Sydney). Pluto has
just come back after a not too profitable trip through
Munca and England. If the little darkey could be turned
out anything like he used to be in those impromptu dust-
ups with Griffo, Tweedie would be in trouble earlv, but
Pluto (writer thinks) has got past that, hence it may be a
good fight.
* * » •
Cabled that Towns has, since beating Wray,
challenged the world—Canuck Gaudaur preferred—for
£5OO a side. Towns has little hope of bringing on the
wily Jake, and he can only secure world’s premiership
through present holder’s default.
* * * •
“ Old Timer ” : Always thought Towns would
put Wray down if ever they met. Latter was too fond of
talking. When he went to England with bookie Beales
and whilom champ. Stanbury, everybody round about
where he stayed heard from Wray that he was a world-
heater. Morning or two after arriving ’Ome, Wray saw
the English champion punter at his game on the river,
and, when told who he was, said : “ That cove a cham-
pion ! Why, it’d only be an exercise spin for me to lick
• ” And this in face of the fact that a crack punter
(besides other qualifications) must have an intimate
knowledge of the holes and hills of the bottom he is
working on. Wray, when in N.S.W.—performing on
Shoalhaven or George’s River—had a big reputation, but
somehow could never quite reach private form when
called upon. Though Australians have often rowed for the
supremacy, of Britain—and won it—latest instance was
first wherein both claimants were Australians. Course
was from Putney Bridge to near Ship Inn (about 4£ miles).
Towns is only about 30, and consequently should keep in
the game for several years yet.
* * * *
N.S.W. sculler Towns stands a good chance of
becoming absolute owner of the valuable Sportsman
Challenge Cup. He has already won it twice, and only
needs to do so again during next 12 months to bring it
back to Australia. Trickett, Searle and Stanbury were
previous holders of the emblem. Beach didn’t row for it,
though .’twould have been a sure thing for him, as when
he was in England Perkins held the trophy.
* * * •
For Vic. 10-mile cross-country supremacy on
Caulfield racecourse last Saturday, G. Blake (Melb.
Harriers) finished first in 61min. 27|sec. He ran third
last year but has much improved since.
* * * „
North Adelaide, by defeating South on Sep. 8,
secured Adelaide football premiership. Last year the
Norths were bottom, and their reversal of positions is
entirely due to the electorate system. For five years
gate-money grew less every season, but this year shows
almost a 50 per cent, increase on 1899. Electorate
conditions now apply to cricket, football and lacrosse in
the city of churches.
* • * »
Understood that Bob Walne, who suffered from
eye-trouble before he returned to his native Queensland,
is now himself again, and will be biking against “ all
the champions ” in a month or two.
* » * •
Country week is to be abandoned by N.S.W.
Cricket Association. . In lieu thereof a team from one of
the country districts is to be brought week by week to
play against the city team having the bye in the pennant
competition.. Sydney Association pays all travelling
exes., and if the innovation will only unearth a new
bowler will cheerfully foot the bill.
Sydney first-grade cricket is to be confined to
?5 vel J, c^u^s ' ® ou kh Sydney and E. Sydney are now one—
the Sydney Club; while Balmain and Leichhardt have
also amalgamated. The ultimate destination of several
of the crack players is still doubtful, but most of the
seven will have a powerful side.
• » * •
Some remarkable instances of the long life of
pneumatic tyres are occasionally brought to light, but
we doubt if the following record has ever been beaten.
A Melb. cyclist hamed Thos. King, flagmaster at the
Melbourne Exhibition Building, bought a machine fitted
with Dunlop Tyres from T. D. Scott (this was before the
now deceased firm of Scott and Morton came into exist-
ence) in October 1894. The machine and tyres have been
in continual use since that date —a period of six years—
the wearing surface of the Dunlop covers being in a re-
markable state of preservation after covering some
20,000 miles. As the rider weighs list, and the machine
scales some 421 b., some idea can be formed as to the wear-
ing qualities of first-class Para rubber.
* » * *
Joe Darling writes Adelaide friends that it is
quite likely cricket will see him no more after Christmas.
He visits S.A. in October, and a big effort is to be made
to secure his services in the inter-State matches with Vic.
and N.S.W. Joe has grown a beard, and is frequently in
the saddle from morn till night.
* * » »
“H.S.”: Everybody knows that a crack
howler, even if he can’t bat at all, is more valuable to his
side than the crack bat who can bowl only a little. But
the ideal team would be composed of Trumbles and
Nobles with a good batsman-wicketkeeper thrown in.
• * * *
Ranji was 28 last Monday. Five years ago he
hit up his initial 100 in first-flight cricket and now he has
no less than 41 such performances against his name.
» * * *
Ranji (in Sussex-Middlesex match) hit up 202
thus making himself the only bat who had scored over
200 runs four times during one season.
* * * • 1
About 300 Sydney and suburban bowlers
mustered at Association annual meeting last week.
’Twas announced that an Australasian team representative
of N.S.W., Vic., Q., S.A., and M.L., would go ’Ome next
April to meet Scotch and English teams. A resolution
affirming the desirableness of playing two inter-State
matches with Vic. each year was carried and the sugges-
tion that a general Australian carnival might be arranged
(with S.A., Q., V., and N.S.W. participating) found
general favor.
* * * *
Champion Australian, Percy Cavill, was matched
to swim a series of five races with “ Murican ” premier
M‘Ousker, Aug. 25. Percy’s first practice effort at Revere
Beach (Boston) nearly proved disastrous. Temperature
north of Cape Cod on ocean front is rarely above 60. Big
crowds went to see Cavill at work and were near wit-
nessing his death, for he got so badly chilled that but for.
the application of hot-water bags and stimulants there’d
have been no chance of the match taking place.
( Continued"on page 27.)
MISS JESSIE KING, the English Contralto,
who, with Herr Volmar, gives a Concert at
Sydney Centenary Hall, on Thursday, Sep-
tember 27.


AFTER BREAKFAST,
AFTER DINNER
AFTER TEA,
9
H
Get out
your
Tobacco,
and enjoy that
Luxury,
m
a GOOD SMOKE
10
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.
iK
U
msm
187 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Telephon* $490.
SILVER NOVELTIES.
SILVER-MOUNTED
(Cabinet Size)
PHOTO FRAMES.
Price, 12/6,15/-, etc.
Paris Panel Size.
27/6 to 50/-
Handsomely
Chased
SILVER-MOUNTED
CARRIAGE
CLOCK.
Price, £2 6s.
Others from 40s.
s
to
m
An Expensive Doctor.
Few people grumble at paying an increased
price for a specialist in cases of serious compli-
cated diseases. A scientist who has made a
special study of one class of diseases for years,
aided by a large and practical experience in all
its phases and stages, rightly commands a higher
fee when his services are demanded than a general
practitioner, and the same applies to a remedy.
When our dear ones lie dangerously ill with
kidney disease we do not dream of choosing
a medicine on account of its cheapness. We
naturally choose the remedy which carries some
guaranteeof efficacy, amedicine which our acquaint-
ances and friends have tried and found curative.
Warner’s Safe Cure is the most expensive medicine
on the market. It cannot be made cheaply and
be Warner’s Safe Cure. But no sane person
would think of substituting a cheaper remedy,
for its value in kidney diseases is guaranteed by
twenty-one (21) years of success, and in these
serious diseases one cannot afford to experiment.
Cheap doctors and cheap medicines are on a parity.
Accept no substitute when your kidneys are weak,
ailing or diseased. Insist .on the genuine War-
ner’s Safe Cure, which is a scientific preparation,
and its therapeutic value is acknowledged by
physicians, the profession, and the masses all
over the world.*
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. reports
that since previous announcement of 7th inst. the wheat
market has been exceedingly dull, and the air is full of
disappointment. Holders are objurgating because Sep-
tember has failed to bring a rise in values which would
make good the frosts of the earlier months of the year.
They reckoned on that rise, and it never came. Millers
and shippers are growling because the low figure obtain-
able for the manufactured article locally and the high
freights demanded by the shipping companies take all the
margin and make extensive operations unprofitable, and
render it impossible for them to offer more than 2s. 9ld.
for prime milling samples ; 2s. Bd. to 2s. B£d. for good ;
2s. 3d. to 2s. 6d. for pinched and chickwheat. The larger
extent of country under crop and the indications of a
huge harvest give considerable hopes of a big export trade
during the coming season.*
n* noi j; iir lji i *inir urs
i! ifinfirmr-i
ifU l ! i.i 1 11 iin
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS
rpo
CYCLISTS AND CYCLE REPAIRMEN . .
ID®" Y OU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINES !
“ ,M r , ’ ER , IAL ” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rims and
Dunlops.
“ IMPERIAL ” Special Racers with same fittings.
American 1900 Model Component Sets, complete with
fu ery j ", ttm £> all ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze can build a bicycle
of these sets.
“ MORROW ” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Back Pedal
.Brake saves the rider 40 per cent.
Write for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
aoeuio 8 ’ Novelties and Second-hand Wheels. GOOD
wanted where not at present represented. Marine
Oil Engines and Launches—particulars and designs. A
post-card will bring you all information of our lines.
J. F. MoDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Hannan’s Brownhill. —£6 15s. drop despite
exaggerated reports and highly encouraging circulars
issued by directors. The Cos. has a playful habit of telling
its shareholders “ nice ” things about the mine but never
allowing them to go down to see for themselves. “In
view of the large body of high-grade sulphide ore now
available they have entered into a contract with Hannan s
Star to lease its sulphide plant for the purpose of treating
Brownhill’s sulphide ore.” Men who work in the mine,
and therefore ought to know, say the sulphides are limited
and prospects poor in the deeper workings and the fact
of the co. putting up a 50 ton a day sulphide mill only,
gives confirmation to this statement. Some day, prob-
ably in the dim future, shareholders will know what the
London and Hamburg Gold Recovery Cos. is to receive in
B.H. shares—it is always in shares—for the erec-
tion of this mill and the patent rights of
the Diehl process, and the disclosure will be
the usual staggerer. The Bulletin suggests a prize com-
petition to find out who has had the most of the Brown-
hill gold (in shares, of course), the London and Hamburg*
Gold Recovery 00. from putting up plant, or shareholders
from working the mine ; and if this is found too easy to
answer, Bewick Moreing and Co.’s relative connection
with both companies might be set out for careful and
exact definition. The appalling prices (always in shares)
paid, too, for wild-cat blocks —“ True Blue,” ‘ Princess
Louise,” “ Jubilee,” to wit—is another interesting pro-
blem which is likely to be worked out after the people
who have benefited and lost most by it are very dead.
* • * •
Great Boulders have not participated in the big
rise and small fall of the week except to the extent of a
modest 9d. The first month’s gold-production from the
new sulphide plant is what the manager anticipated it
would be months ago—2o4B tons for 30800z5., an average
of and this may be depended upon for long to
come. The cyanide treatment of sands and the battery
treatment of oxidised ores brought the total month’s pro-
duction up to 10,3450z5., which may he regarded as about
the average month’s output for the future.
* * * *
Perseverance, £l2, and they have been within a
few shillings one way or the other of it for some weeks.
The best recent development of the whole field should be
credited to this mine, which is opening up remarkably
well in the deeper levels. The sulphide plant has
just started, hut it is not yet running to its fullest
capacity—26o tons. Believed to have been some trouble
with the settlers, owing to the difficulty of getting
the settled material re-agitated. Writer thinks this part
of the sulphide plant will have to be abandoned and that
filter-pressing will take the place of decantation.
* * * *
Ivanhoe. 6364 tons; 84090 z. Writer was
wrong in assuming that the production of this mine
would fall very heavily. He was either wrongly informed,
or the developments have been much better, or the co. has
more up its sleeve in the way of gold reserves in tailings,
slimes, plates, zinc solutions, &c., &c. The fact is never-
theless clear that the oxidised reserves in the mine are
not sufficient to maintain this output, and a considerable
falling off must take place before it is possible to erect
any sulphide plant to bring it up by working in the sul-
phide zone. The market has strengthened, but the
market in this and the Lake View mine has nothing to do
with the value of either. It is controlled by a crowd who
stick at nothing when they have a “ bear squeeze ” in
view, and in time it will no doubt be known how much of
other people’s money they have used and lost for their
own purposes. * , »
Hainault, Hannan’s: “ The richest stone ever
seen in the mine has just been broken from the face in
the south drive in the 400 ft. level.” How often this yarn
from the Hainault ? It is about the richest patch-mine
on the camp. Unfortunately for the Hainault, it is just
outside the accursed break, and everything in the mine is
very much broken in consequence. It has had lots of
rich strikes, but not one of them lasted. There are some
mines in the Kalgoorlie district that are rich one day and
poor the next, but these don’t come up to the will-o’-the-
wisp character of the Hainault, which has been known to
be rich at 9 o’clock and poor at 10.
* * * *
Hannan’s Block 45. Another find announced a
few days ago, and ’tis said, “ the payable ore has gone
underfoot.” It has a way of doing this in this block,
where the first discovery of telluride was made. It is
outside the Golden Belt, and therefore, apparently, has
no hope of striking anything but an occasional bunch of
ore.
• * » *
Kalgurli, Hannan’s.—August return, 1010 tons,
15700 z. Another rich find reported in the 640 ft. level.
“ The last lot broken down shows a face really bristling
with tellurides. It is impossible, of course, to give any-
thing like the average value, but it is safe to say that any
portion of the present face will go over 20oz. This is re-
garded as the richest discovery in the history of the mine.”
Alas ! the market is unmoved. It has had too many
yarns of this sort about numerous mines, and the fact has
been well digested that the Kalgurli has a habit of being
rich one day and poor the next. “ ‘ My face is my fortune,
sir,’ she said.” It is a wonderfully rich piece of ground
for about 300 ft. in length on the surface, where for 100 ft.
in depth the oxidised boulders are of great width. Un-
fortunately, the ore narrows with depth, and is only rich
here and there. It is doubtful whether the sulphide zone
in the mine will average an ounce to the ton. Strange
how the telegraph-hummers to the East evade the ques-
tion of averages and stick to the yabber of “ the face
shows rich tellurides.” The mine has been crushing six
months, and has so far maintained an average of l£oz.
per ton. It has done this by taking most of the ore from
the upper levels, and so sure as it is a fairly good mine
the average must come down as soon as it has to depend
upon ore from the lower levels, these exaggerated rich
discoveries notwithstanding.
• * * *
South Kalgurli, 1530 tons, 1532oz.—Maintaining
the usual average, made up by oxidised and sulphides.
Unlike its neighbor, the Kalgurli, the oxidised ore in this
mine is much poorer than the sulphide, but it is on a dis-
tinct line of country, and is quite different in character.
Its ore bodies are smaller, but the lodes are more defined.
This mine, too, is reported to be looking remarkably
well. The installation of the Reicken process for dealing
with sulphide is nearly complete, hut the market is silent.
Shares have fallen considerably during the last two
months. Too many crushings without a div., and the
S.K. can only occasionally pay a little one with loz. rock.
* * •* *
. Robertson gold-mines, W.A. —£25,000 working
capital exhausted, and now that shareholders have to
face a reconstruction scheme in London the chairman re-
signs on the plea that he has not the requisite technical
knowledge or time to attend to the business of the co.
But the gentleman makes no allusion to the fact that it
has taken him years to find out his own ignorance. The
mine started five years ago with a few good crushings.
Battery has since been largely employed in crushing
alluvial for White Feather diggers, the profits from which
have gone in fruitless efforts to find pay-ore in the mine.
* * * «
The sale of the Tasmania mine for £480,000, or
£8 a share to J. Bull, is imminent. One hardly khowi
in which respect to admire the Tasmania most-fonts
gold or for its water. m ,
Glenfine No. 1 salting.-Ballarat has beaten its
own record in cronkness if the of Melb Stock
Exphamre members are verified, fancy Baliar
change offering £IOO reward for the diction < >f pr°b *
one of its own members, for putting Glenfine No. Is uf
from 9s. to 21s. ! Isn’t this sort of thingofqmtecom
mon occurrence ? Take a case happening °n the day the
reward was offered-that of South Star ? n °t he
show. The Argus of Aug. 27, shows this to have been
worked during the previous six months at a loss of £SOOO,
that two calls of Is. each are required to meet indebted
ness, and £4CO per month to meet expenses, yet on tihe
day of this hue and cry, shares rushed from 9s. t 0
on what also appears to be an equally fictaious
This “ righteous indignation of Ballarat and Melbourn
Exchanges should find practical expression m purchasing
an illuminated copy of the Ten Commandments for the
doors of each Exchange.
f ♦ *
"*Melb. Age last week gave further wings to a
rumor of a month ago that unusual legal proceedings, y
way of direct petition to the Queen, were about to be
taken re a valuable mining lease illegally granted y
ex-Minister of Mines over the head of the nght
claimant. It is said that the highest °PJ monß
the proposed petitioners, and that £200,000 d a mag
to be claimed if the M’Lean Govt doesn t satisfactor y
compromise. It is also said that the form of
is one which has not been employed since the time oi
George IV. Startling revelations of the possible mix
relationships of Ministers of different departments in their
public and private capacities in Australia are hint
« * * *
Concerning the printed allegation as to the ex-
pert’s report on the North Chillagoe Co.’s property having
been unwarrantably altered for prospectus purposes, it W
wired from an authoritative quarter in Brisbane that,
“Notwithstanding stupid, unnecessary alterations in
Dunstan’s report on the North Chillagoe mines by
persons not yet identified, Mines Department here does
not budge from original opinion that th e *? r °uP P
perties undoubtedly bears most favorable comparison
with any other group of properties in Chillagoe district.
Courier publishes verbatim certified report, which
this out/’ **
The Maoriland iron-founders have managed
to retain the duty upon dredging machin-
ery. Meanwhile the dredging-senp slump continues.
Hartley and Riley have for the last six months averaged
over 200 oz. weekly, yet shares have steadily fallen from
£l3 to £7. Cause, no money for investment and every-
body up to their eyes in other claims. The Manuhenka,
anew dredge started below Alexandria on the Molyne >
for first week obtained 120 oz. whilst opening out.
* * * *
The dredging boom has got to the Malay Penin-
sula, where “ English capitalists” are preparing to work
for tin that way. There seems a shortage of miners m
the Straits, too—miners the world over have never been
in such general demand for 25 years at least—-and that
is very awkward for the syndicator and inas-
much as the notice has been issued that persons will
not be permitted to acquire new rights unless the labor
force at their disposal is sufficient to enable them to
comply with the requirements of the law re the new laud
as well as with regard to that already held.’ A notable
idea.
The most interesting gentleman heard of
for quite a long while is the negro looter slain at
Galveston, Texas, the other day with 23 fingers of
dead persons in his pocket, with rings attached.
Cabled that Great Britain is going to
“ proclaim peace ” in the Transvaal, and that
unless the Boers stop fighting they are to be
treated as “rebels” and outlawed, allee same the
two N.S.W. aboriginal murderers. In a word,
they are to be shot down without quarter, like
dingoes or brigands, for the crime of not knowing
when they are beaten. Verily, Kruger was right
when he said that the cost of subjugating his
country would “ stagger humanity.” The pretext
for the outlawry business is, that Kruger having
left the Transvaal (after appointing and leaving
behind him a deputy), the Boers still in arms are
mere guerrillas, who cannot claim the privileges of
civilised warfare.
Almost certainly some thousands of
pounds will be muddled away when Lord Hope-
toun lands as Governor-General —£15,000 is men-
tioned ; and apparently the expenditure is to be
entrusted to the ordinary chuckleheaded com-
mittee of “ prominent persons ” whose only idea
of decorative festivity is extravagance and
guzzling. From one point of view there’s
no need to spend money at all as this
population already gets quite enough circus.
Fireworks and flags won’t bring home the mean-
ing of Australian unity to a single soul who can’t
comprehend it without them. But if the money
is going to be spent whether or no, it might as
well be spent with some regard to aesthetic effect.
The crude decorations which heralded the depar-
ture of African contingents were a torture to
anybody with taste. And the under-secre-
taries and their handy-men, who are usually
entrusted with money to burn, know no
better. If Premier Lvne has really determined
to spend much money in announcing the
Commonwealth’s arrival, Parliament should
first of all be asked to vote the sum, and no more
should be spent on any pretence. Then the
greater part of it should be handed over to people
with some brains and taste—say a committee of
artists and architects, as has been suggested ; and
the decorative and illuminative side of the cele-
bration should be left entirely in their hands. In
that way, if we waste money, we’ll get some re-
turn for it.
The champion cow (an imported Jersey)
at Melb. Agricultural Show yielded in 24 hours
over 321 b. milk, and 21b. 3foz. butter.
War coincidences ! Abrahams, N.S.W.
M. 1., killed in action at Abraham’s Kraal. Clive
Flint (familiarly known as “ Cliff ”) shot at Cliff
Kraal.
A Brisbane beak lately sentenced a fero-
cious ruffian eight years old to 10s. fine or three
days’ gaol for the theft of various pieces of an old
stove, valued at 2d. This Solon should exchange
cards with Judge Baking-powder Gibson.
According to a return furnished to Sydney
City Council, the number of vacant houses in 8
divisions of the city has decreased from 1298 in
1897 to 651 in 1900. At present only 37 houses are
empty in Gipps ward but no mention is made of
Lang, the other “plague-stricken” ward, which
includes Sussex-street and the Darling Harbor
wharves.
Alf. Joseph, after all the turf talk about
his enormous wealth, “ cut up ” for no more than
£72,000, including a considerable sum for personal
belongings which would have gone cheap had Alf.
been reduced to the necessity of selling off to meet
his liabilities. The estate was divided among his
relatives, no other sort of Jewish charities being
remembered in the will. Now that the late
“King of the Ring” is revealed at his true finan-
cial strength, the Australian public will perhaps
be spared any fyrther fairy tales in the daily press
concerning the amount of money that the blessed
ring stands to Jose in the event of certain happen-
ings. Bookmakers hereabouts, or anywhere for
that matter, are not mines of wealth. Many of
them live extravagantly whilst growing steadily
richer, because their big business yields them a 50
per cent, or more profit on the annual turnover,
after paying top prices (i. e., odds) to those
“knowing birds ” who get such a great advantage
over the ordinary punting public. But Ikey Mo
is not a millionaire who risks his capital in com-
petition with his customers. He’s just a tote who
pays with other people’s money, and keeps far too
much of it in his bag at the end of the season.
At Poverty Point.
In “The Orphan Heiress,” just removed from the stage
at Melb. Royal, the heroine is offered the option of wed-
ding the villain on the spot or being chewed by the circus
tiger. Of course she scorns the villain, and loudly
declares her preference for “ the embrace of that! poor
beast,” meaning the tiger. There are a lot of men in the
play-making business who ought to be dealing in sausage-
skins.
The tall and beautiful contralto, Marie Van de Veer
Green, a favorite singer at Sydney concerts ten years ago,
is on her way back to Sydney with her husband, who is a
partner in a New York ship-chandlery firm. Since she
was here Mrs. Green has visited America and been twice
to S’Africa ; but she has mostly resided in London.
It must be 40 years since the Sisters Gougenheim (a
harmless corruption of Geoghagan) were the rage at the
old Melb. Princess’s, where Micawber Fawcett was
manager. There were two, Adelaide and Joey, utterly
unlike. Joey was the favorite, her most effective comedy
•character being the heroine in “ The Irish Heiress.” But
she was equally successful in several burlesques, and was
personally and artistically one of the most popular of all
the favorites of the old days. One of the dramatic
critics was so infatuated with Joey that to propitiate her
he turned Roman Catholic, and he was so enthusiastic a
convert that too much kneeling (a most unusual position
for a newspaper-man) brought on an affection of the knee-
joints. R. S. Smythe was theatrical critic of one of the
Melbourne dailies at the time, but he says he is not the
man referred to. Last week, in Sydney, Joey Gougen-
heim, who, when a girl, was the toast of the fathers of
the middle-aged Australians of to-day, died, leaving a
grown-up family and many sorrowing friends. She long
ago married Mr. Marmaduke Constable, a scion of the
notable Edinburgh publishing-house, who for years was a
merchant in Sydney, and who pre-deceased her by about
two years.
Dear B.—Touching “Player’s” assertion that Ibsen
“ has made an addition to European literature that has
had a big influence on contemporary letters.” Where are
the proofs ? The same thing is said of many writers
whose eccentricity creates for them a few vociferous
admirers. It is these few barrackers who cry, when a
sane play of the morbid type is produced, “There’s the
influence of Ibsen 1 ” as though he were the inventor of
morbidity. One hears “ Mrs. Tanqueray ” spoken of as
owing something to Ibsen, because it was written not
long after the first appearance of “The Doll’s House”
(then 40 years old) in London. But “ Mrs. Tanqueray,”
to my way of thinking, was a distinctly Pineroian master-
piece, and just the play that had been expected of one
who made his first mark as a dramatist with “ The Money
Spinner,” in which the heroine appeared as a card-sharper
winning money from an old sweetheart in order to furnish
her husband with the means to cover his embezzlements.
“ The influence of Ibsen ”is a cant cry. I say that for the
sake of argument. Now let “Player” produce—or,
rather, suggest—evidence of the cranky playwright’s big
influence on contemporary letters. —F.
" S.S.” : “ Anti-Gammon,” talking of Hedda Gabler
(P.P. Sept. 1), finds gratuitous indecency in the hints as
to the heroine’s condition, at which old women in the
audience snigger meaningly, and, having declared the
hints uncalled for and unnecessary to the story, concludes
with fat complacency that Ibsen is striving for cheap
realism, and is really the dirty old man dull commentators
have called him for 12 years or more. The indelicacy is
all on the part of the old women who sniggered, and it is
permitted to suspect “ Anti-Gammon ” of being one of
these. It is highly probable that Ibsen intended Hedda’s
“ condition ” to be in some measure responsible for her
strange actions. The character is inherent, and the dis-
position to devilment “ belongs,” but all old women should
know that young wives are often prone to monkey tricks,
and will be victims to strange whims at times, and we
may understand that the action of Hedda’s tragedy is
hastened by the heroine’s state. The allusions are serious
and clean, and only that curious type of mind familiar in
sick boys and morbid and withered females could find
anything in them to titter over. You’d hardly gather
from “ Anti-Gammon ” that Assessor Brack’s suggestion
is merely an allusion to the need of “ a really stimulating
experience ” as a antidote to the horrible boredom with
which Hedda is afflicted.
A lot of money is being dropped by speculative theatri-
cal showmen at Paris Exhibition. Said that one popular
artist who secured a “ pitch ” in the ground and risked a
small fortune in his entertainment, took only 42 francs
for two performances on July 14, one of the hottest days
of the season.
The death is announced in London of Mrs. Creswick,
widow of the eminent tragedian who visited Australia
years ago. The deceased lady was well-known in Sydney
as wife of Dr. Belinfante, medico and barrister, who was
drowned near Mudgee, and in whose memory the bridge
at the spot where he lost his life is named. Mrs. Belinfante
kept a fashionable boarding-house in O’Oonnell-street,
Sydney, where the tragedian lived.
The crv of a primitive people in a primitive land. Wes-
tern Archjs (Kalgoorlie, W.A.) protests against dogs being
allowed to climb on the stage or platform during enter-
tainments. And what wonder ? Even the long-suffering
Williamson would object if strange pups wandered up on
the stage in the throne scene of “ Rose of Persia,” and
attempted to scratch themselves on the Sultan.
Maud Williamson’s dramatisation of Marie Corelli’s
“ Barabbas ” should pay its way handsomely, even if it
proves to be only a passable show. The mere name of
the drama is a fine advt. As a notorious robber old friend
Barabbas is several times larger for billing purposes than
Jack Sheppard. .
Miss Gillies Brown, who plays small parts with the
Brough Co. and plays them very well, is a daughter of
the late Gavin G. Brown, the “ father of Melb. Stock
Exchange.”
“A.”: Two of the funniest cinematographe pictures
showing at London Alhambra : Old chap receives plate of
sandwiches, and forthwith devours them, apparently
with great relish. Bill presented—no money—a row.
Then, to settle matters, the “ picture ” is reversed, and,
one by one, the sandwiches come up from below, bites
are put into them, and when the last has been neatly
packed on the plate, the waiter comes along backwards
and takes them away. He returns and takes away the
order. T’other is a high dive reversed. A great splash,
and the diver shoots straight out of the water, feet
first, and does a graceful curve on to the foot-board,
00 feet above.
Miss Hetty Holroyd, who left Sydney with Rev. Charles
Clark three months since, will be back in Sydney in a few
days. “ The best and youngest soprano in Australia,” as
she was advertised by the Much Travelled, was enthusi-
astically received in the West.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes -
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
cS
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3xr.s,'W.
Rant deßiete |. Co., [ti
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
CASTLEK.EAGH ST., *7Q.
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City .Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With goo Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liability.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Directors : W. M'Millan, A. W. Meeks, Sydney ; L. A.
Jessop, Adelaide.
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M‘Farlane ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - IGS Pitt Street, Sydney.
Di rectors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. 0. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,601 assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to I’oticyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 St 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4 ’OOl .. £3,196,353 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling,' M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M‘Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORG JE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
WICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
* DEBENTURES.
The SAYINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on MONDAY, sth NOVEMBER, for MORTGAGE
BONDS, bearing interest at THREE per cent. Tender
forms and conditions supplied at all SAVINGS BANKS
in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The |ank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
Shipping*
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE"*
GEELONG
PORTLAND h
WARRNAMBOOL J
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 22, 1 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, Sept. 29,1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyongr, Tues., Oct. 2, 6 p.m.
ALBANY
PREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., Oct. 2, 5 p.ra.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 22, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tues., Sept. 25, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 29, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 22, 2 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 29, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices- Mutual Life k Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Trustees, CxccCitorS,
AND
Ag?OCy Con?papy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £l5O 000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000 000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government ' .. 500 000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500|000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
LiUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
J * Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap ]y to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Business Announcements.
zv
fringes,
Natural Cur];, from 8/8 eaeSi.
PLAITS and TAILS,
?oln. long, 6/8, all real ha!*,
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
* lilted up, S/6 per 02.
W« are tbe cheapestlo
iroJla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigzefl,
110 William Street,
■•oroer of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram wiU stop at Door..
Send stampß for full Price LI*V '
Pratppt attontion'givcn to Country Oifm
zv
AMUSEMENT for OLD and TO UNO.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
X
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.)
ladies’ Tailoring
—SPRING—
NEW SELF SHADES
IN
Meltons, Venetians & Sergerettes.
LATEST DESIGNS
IN
Fancy Worsteds and Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming: Mailboat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz.:—
MEDIO, 12,000 tons, to sail 10th October.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
AFRIC, PERSIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
I'INGLAND VIA
by the
AMERICA
I
American A Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
ouwo a, v aii j£tuio until uocu, ana iciuoon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Slenm Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, Genge Sireet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street.
Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N.D.L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, Southamp-
ton, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Ade-
Commander. .“Faney
Steamer.
Tons
laide,
1 p.m
2 p.m
♦WILLEHAD
KARESRUHE
*KONIGIN LUISE
♦BARBAROSS A ..
*G. KURFURST
4761
5057
10566
10769
13200
H. Mayer ... Sep. 22 Sept. 29
C. Oesselmann Oct. 20 Oct. 27
O. Volger ... Nov. 17 Nov. 24
F. Mentz .. Dec. 15 Dec. 22
I 1901 | 1901
W. Reimkasten Jan. 12 Jan. 19
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS. '
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
“““ •vsuiwnjr iiuoivitttci t'CIJ oIA W CCIYO.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney, General Agents.
NORD-DEUTSCIIER LLOYD *
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MININQ, INSIJBANOE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Be>t
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
'^LINCOLN,STUART&ro.
PWOPRIETA ItT LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
g E'
r
Our Suit to order at 435. is
marvellous value: made from
all-wool Tweeds,Vicunas, or fast
color Serges ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class e f material. £3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, very
good patterns 13s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure, £5.
Clerical Suits, to measure, £5,
Biding Breaches, 355.
Biding Habits, Ac,
We supply ready, made. Men's
capital Tweed Suits. 31s. & 35a.
I Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye,3ss.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette Suits, 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests. 19s (id.
Men's Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, I9s. fid. White Drill
?* cs .and Trousers. 10s. (id.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 13s (id
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs!
bs. 9d, White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d„ 4s 9d., ss. (id.
Travelling Trunks, Bags and
Bugs in great variety.
Men's White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs. 3s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. (id.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. (jd.
Soit Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d„ all
colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. 6<l. Caps, Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants.
Is. 9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
White Shirts to measure. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots.
6s. 9d., 9s. 6d.
We like to write letters; so don't be afraid to ask for anv
information. Our book, “ The Philosophy of Dress.” and
patterns of all kinds and seif-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Silk cloth, sills
marker, 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(I/I M ITEI>).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FSPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinjja, Friday, Sep-
tember 21. Transhipping
at Melbourne.
S.S. Marloo, Sat., Sept. 22,
Without Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
Townsville
And Ports North to Cairns
•S.S. WiUTCfro, Friday,
September 21.
a,V e ' Sf !!" ,l rh <'«!><-xt Itoute to Goldfields.
firs? °Pnrr P w Uge tlC M t u al ' e alter the
nrst Port between Melbourne and Ca ins with the
it e nT er F°or Ad?r V, S ' N - W ' fl ™' h and
bons. For Adelaide and VV.A. ail tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Go. only. Sul je?t to con-
ditions to be ascertained on applbat ion
G. S. YUILL & CO.; LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A- U. S. N. C,
’oy Ltd
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASS ENG Eli. LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weeldv
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay!
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
?vnwlv ILLE LOOAL PORTS - Weekly.
IvnSrl AND ROCKHAMPTON Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BLRKETOVVN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Islan I,
and Norinanton.
IvnMvv NE> \ CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
1 ( ortmghtly.
I‘assen ( /er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchange J after the
Melbourne and Caii ns with t ne steamers
f.wA d( ' ald i'r S ' Company and W. PI. Smith and Sons,
k" Jl e ?^ to conditions to be ascertained on application.
loi Adelaide arid W. Australia all tickets are inter-
o 6 V^ T th the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO, Ltd., Agents, 111 Bridge-
stieet, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports/
o. COMPANY’
be T d h e% R aXu?s f o,S‘ows Sh i P 8 ° f the Company wiil
F °R MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
louehing at the usual Intermediate Ports.
~ r „ encamns now Cull Ul/ rTPlllMllrlP
PASSAGE MO*NEY TO LONDON- Single, • y.g> , o £7O.
o . Rdf 0 , Ditto Return, 05 to 110.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial ports
are available for Return b,v Orient and Messagcries Mari-
times Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to Mr. EDWARD TRELAW vY, SuperintendentTn Aus
tralnuExclTange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets.
Huddart, parfter § Co’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, 11011,1 irr,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
For MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Commander. iLeave Sydney.
Steamer.
Tns
EASTERN
AIRLIE ...
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIE
3600 Winthrop Ellis
2500 St. John George
3000 P. T. Helms
2500 W. G. M'Arthur
September 22
. October 18
November 10
December 6
The above steamers were specially buiit for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience
including Electric Light and Kilbonin’s Patent Refri-’
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and GO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
dniuiraitli, H)‘gacharnS go.
PROP. LID.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND *
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
ofcock Kates and Freight Quota! apply
MMwraith, M‘Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & GO. LTD.,
„ ~ ~ Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAI DE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
uvkj iycci tu .Duiii uiiy, muia, unina,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


Important Notice. —Piles. — Mr. Frank
Buckhurst Chemist, of Mutual Store Buildings,
Elinders-street, Melbourne, has now a stock of the
famous “Cannalin” remedies for Piles. Copies
of the pamphlet by Albert Sharp, “Piles and
How to Cure them,” sent free on application, or
from the head depbt, 257 Georg«-street, Sydney.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, ’ the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Two out of the five members of the Com-
mission appointed to enquire into Burdett-Coutts’
charges rc the treatment of sick and wounded in
S’Africa are in the pay of the War Office—the very
department criticised—and the Commission has no
power either to compel evidence or to protect
witnesses. What a shameless mummery !
Taken 111 In The Street.
On the 26th of January, 1898, a young lady,
passing through Burton Street, in Darlinghurst,
was suddenly taken ill. Fortunately, she was
seen by the people of a house nearby, who con-
dueted her within doors, administered a stimu-
lant, and cared for her untill she was able to go
home.
This you may say, was hardly an incident
worth putting in print. That depends on what
it signified. To a besieged and starving garrison
the sound of a distant bugle is a matter to make
the heart jump.
On arriving at her house, we are sorry to say,- 1
the young lady had a second seizure, and a doctor
was at once called in.
No, it was not the nerves, or a rush of blood to
the head ; the symptoms pointed to a thoroughly
disordered state of indigestion ; ulcerated
stomach, probably. So spoke the medical man,
after a careful diagnosis.
Such being the doctor’s opinion, he prescribed
all the lines suggested by the facts. The sequel
proved him right, albeit his treatment had but
little beneficial effect. For this he is not .to be
blamed, as there are few diseased conditions more
difficult to correct than the one he met with in
this instance. Many physicians decline to touch
such cases —sending the sufferers to hospitals.
In a letter dated August 20th, 1899, the young
lady describes the events alluded to here, and
informs ps as to the final result.
“ It was early in 1897,” she says, “ that my
health, previously good, began to fail. In spite of
all we could do, I got worse, and in the middle of
that year my state was dreadful. Not only was
my appetite wholly destroyed, I abhorred the
very si'iht of food. From the most savoury and
attractive meals that could be put on the table I
turned away in disgust. .
“ That this was unnatural and alarming, of
course, I realised ; but what could be done ?
Hardly a day passed without my suffering agony
with a twisting, griping, gnawing feeling in the
stomach.
“ The pleasure and comfort went out ot my file
as completely as the sparkle vanishes from a lake
on a cloudy day.
“At length I acted on■ my mother’s urgent
and repeated advice, and began the use Mother
Seigel’s Syrup. She said it had wrought a won-
derful cure on her ; and why should it not on me ?
So I said yes, and went for it. Before I had
taken four bottles the trouble passed away, and I
have been a strong, healthy girl ever since—
and that is now eighteen months,” Maud
McGuinness, 158, Burton Street, Darlinghurst,
Sydney, N.S.W.*
For more Than One Hundred years
SOAP
has maintained its supremacy in the face of the whole
world’s competition. Such a record could not he
achieved without cause. Temporary successes are com-
paratively easy, hut for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man who has once tried Pears Soap m the foim of a
Shaving Stick wanks no other, he takes it with him on all
his journeys. The woman wTio travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
“ matchless for the complexion.”
Business Announcements.
hhhhhhhhh hhiihh hhhhhhhhhhh
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
II
H
H
H
H
H
II
H
H
H
H
H
II
H
H
H
H
H
TA [J OKING.
Spring & Summer Suitings.
VOUB Hand, my Lad. Write for
1 HATTE’S SPRING and SUMMER
TWEEDS and COATINGS.
You will like them. Your Sweetheart
will like them.
Real Good Suits, with extra Pair of
Trousers, Indigo, Twill, Serge, and
Tweeds, £2 2s. .
A Real Clinker Hand-Made Suit, Fancy
Worsted, Vicunas, Serges, and Serge-
rettes, £2 10s.
Best Hand-Made Suit, No Equal in Aus-
tralia, £3 3s.
Our Made to Measure Trousers, Indigo,
Serges, Tweed, and Sergerette, 98 6d.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS and SELF-
MEASUREMENTS
C. Gr. 3EX ATT E,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
II
H
H
II
H
H
H
H
H
H
Tl
II
H
HHHHHHHHHHHHIIH HIIH HHHHHHHH
Publications.
LADIES—
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
BooksT Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for il. Chambers
Encyclopedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, 4.7 10s.
for t'2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, li-93 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australia n Bush ranging.
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. (id. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this payer.
R. W. SKINNER SECOND HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh streec, Sydney.
FOREXGrM STAMPS.
[WESTERN
zv
a
AiSUilMi*
nhUklilMiri
pHEAP SETS.—24 Cuba, Is 6d ;
40 Japan, Is 6d ; 11 Canada,
6d; 16 Heligoland, Is ; 8 Bosnia,
6d ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ; 12 India Tele-
graphs, 6d ; 3 Victoria Queen on
Throne, 7s ; 8 Egypt, 6d : 11 Por-
tugal, 6d ;10 Bulgaria, 6d; Gibbons
Price Catalogue of Postage Stamps,
part 1., 2s 3d. Stamps purchased.
B^
rtalogues of Albums, Packets, etc., gratis. CHARLES
. DONNE, 346 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
z
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
BOOKLET
Of RARE
BOOKS.
LLUSTRATED
IT.T.XJST Tfc A- TED
v
V\7ITH numerous anatomical
>V colored plates aud engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Kverv man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by wnorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on rece.pt of 2d.
(stamps) foi postage.
I/I /Km '
Address,
PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
TRICOLOR
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
d their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers : Turner and fiend. rson , S 1 1> A 7 li, 1.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
To love is to wish to possess. You can—the knowledge im-
parted by tide boolc unlocks the gate and you bare only to
step In. It considers tbe whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable counters also about
dress personal appearance, cure for bash fulness, and many
other things heretofore secret-. Reproductions of curious love
letters, amt FI FTEEN HUNDRED tit bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 'is. 6d. (stamps 2d. extra) will
bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally hap-
piness with one you love. Angi.o-Ahkr-can 1 e iimsiiixoCo.,
Waterloo Chambers, 458 Geovge-st., Sydney, N.b.W. Mention
t ■N nxper when writing.
Medical.
“ COMMON SEASH EAR DRUM.”
fTHEB
DEAF
|HEAB>
(COMPLETE LY restore ihe
Hearing ami relieve sing-
ing, roaring. and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited afler trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J.' CHALMERS,
S'?!) Collins Street, Melbourne
V
Is a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. VytoS acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
nergy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6
VO. Co., 539 Eh'zabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
STOPS C OLD
This Well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Safe and pleasant for children.
H
AY MAN’S
BALSAM
“ I use a good deal, giving it to servants
' and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had Whi oping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
’ greatest relief.”—B. M. D., The Elms,
June, 1898. Faringdon.
, AGENTS—Elliott • Hoffnung ; Duerdin;
A. Drug Co.; Felton ; Fan]ding; Falk.
CURES COUGH
he Hidden Tide:
A Selection of Verses by Rooeric Quinn..
No. I. of The Bulletin Booklets. Pam-
phlet Bvo., Is. 9d., post free. Out of Print.
Two large-paper copies remain, 11s., post
free.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“Rex”: Re the present attempt to revive
pedestrianism at Botany, Sydney. In the halcyon days of
local sprinting, it was a usual thing for a runner of repute
to be “kept” by an enterprising punter. One runner
who was staying up the line had three men contributing
(each unknown to the other) £2 apiece towards his train-
ing expenses and for the “ exclusive ” privilege of know'
ing when he was a “ trier.” Living thus in clover, the
strider didn’t even take the trouble to train, and things
went on like this for about two months, when, one day,
the “ kept-one ” spied two of his “ keepers ” coming up to
see him, and told his landlord to say he was in bed with
neuralgia. His supporters duly called one after the other
and each left a message for the neuralgic one to take care
of himself, “ because it is about time to put up a win.”
Happening to foregather in the train returning to Sydney,
the pair of backers got comparing notes, and each
promised to tell the other when his man was “ trying” !
«My man is sick at present, though,” said one, “ but I’ll
tell you when he’s better.” “My man is sick, also—bad
with neuralgia,” said the other. “Neuralgia!” echoed
No. 1; “ what’s your man’s name ? ” The name was given
and the ped. promptly lost those two subscribers ; though,
even then, he had the third to fall back on.
* « » *
Dear Bulletin. —Can any of your readers
parallel the following remarkable card-occurrence ?. Dur-
ing a game of whist, recently played here, my partner, in
cutting for trumps, cut the ace of spades, and, when the
deal came round again, he cut the ace of hearts ; next
time the ace of clubs, and the fourth time the ace of dia-
monds.— J.W.C., Charleville, Q.
* * * •
“Investigator”: Knew the late Alf. Joseph
towards the end of the 60’s. He looked then a big, beard-
less overgrown boy, and was engaged as clerk by a
Jewish clothing-factory firm (S. Solcberg and Son),
in Little Collins-street. Have heard that he was the son
of a slop-seller, who had a shop in Bourke-street
—afterwards in Bussell-street—Melbourne.
* * * *
S.A.’ owners, and there are very few of them,
are agitating for an increase of stake-money during the
coming season, complaining that the clubs are spending
their tote-profits in racecourse improvements rather than
in fostering the sport. S.A. has always been deplorably
short of wealthy owners, although local breeders easily
hold their own in producing high quality stock.
Told of a well-known Sydney Hibernian pug.
that, when matched lately against a Vic. rough ’un with
a, penchant for fouling, he went to the referee and said :
“ Luk here, they tell me yu’re goin’ to referee this foight
to-night. If y’a're, doan’t, fur God’s sake, shtop him from
foulin’ me. If he comes that game Oi’ll knock a hole as big
as a sewer-poipe thro’ him. It’ll jist be roightinto me ’and
—thim’s the sort of chaps that soot me down to the
ground. Now, do what I tell yer, will yez ?” There was
no fight because the “ gate” didn’t supply the i. 40 pro-
mised, and the promoter offered considerably less ; but
they’re matched * *
“M”: Much as a writer would like to meet
that Brisbane bookie who lays even money against anyone
naming seven starters in Melb. Oup, he would much
rather meet the men who take such wagers—there should
be money to be made out of them. But such men don’t
exist, neither does the alleged bookmaker. Any man
with a fair circle of sporting acquaintances could make a
nice profit each year by laying even money against the
naming of one starter in the Cup race. Of course he
would have to start when the entries came out and could
lay each horse only once. Billiardist John Boberts might
be able to say something on this subject, as, writer
believes, on one of his previous Australian trips he tried
the idea “ for fun ” and got well “ over round.”
* * . *
“H.C.” : Was watching a game of draw-poker
the other night. Five players with a full pack. China-
man enters, looks on for a while, and then makes
the sixth at the table. His first three hands were as
follows:—lst, came in on a pair of jacks, bought three
cards and made his hand up to four jacks ; 2nd, came in
on a pair of tens and bought two more— four tens ; 3rd,
came in on three jacks and bought the fourth—three
hands of four cards each. Eecord ? Now, what were
the odds against such a.thing happening ? Chow’s luck 1
* * * *
Ed. Bulletin. —Few of the tote-maniacs who
whoop so loudly in The Bulletin have practical know-
ledge of both book and tote. The totalisator is valuable
only for the general public and as a safeguard against
monopoly by odds-layers, but it is the bookmaker who
makes betting—and therefore racing—possible for men
who do bet. Writer has read a good deal in B. sporting
columns about the ordinary know-nothing race-goer, who
likes a bit of sport, and the two hawks who work together
to pluck him —the know-all punter and the bookie. But
the half-sovs. and sovs. of the mug wouldn’t pay Ikey for
his risk. It is the “ scores ” and “ fifties ”of the punters,
who all think they know something, that fill Ikey’s bag
and provide the diamonds and wine when an outsider
rolls home.—E. & O.E.
* * # *
Ed. Bulletin.—About time some relief was
afforded Brisbane race-goers in direction of totalisator
percentage and fractions. The Govt, tax is 2.1 per cent.,
and this is added to the 10 per cent, formerly deducted by
the racing clubs, so that at present an investor has to pay
£1 for the privilege of buying eight £1 tickets from the
machine. Fractions less than one shilling are not paid,
but are collared by the clubs. Thus : supposing the div.
on a favorite to work out £2 2s. llfd., the odd lljd. on
every winning ticket is arbitrarily held by the club which
runs the tote. 'At Albion Park, which races about 60
days a year, tote tickets are 55.; when first and second
favorites are successful (and they get home consistently)
the total deductions for the day—percentage and fractions
-—often average between 17 per cent, and 19 per cent, per
race. —Crook.
* * * »
Died in his 64th year, Richard Daft, the
“crack” batsman of the time when W. G. Grace was
young and nimble. Originally a yeoman farmer in a
small way of landowning, Daft played for Nottingham-
shire as an “ Esq.” But he soon saw the folly of
sacrificing financial interests on the altar of amateurism,
and so he threw in his lot with the pros., and started a
bat and ball factory, and Bichard Daft, Esq., became
plain B. Daft, and as one of the Players of England plain
B. Daft had more honour in his own county and country
than the Gentlemen who took him for their model of
style in batting. Daft, by the way, was one of the few
professional sporting Bichards who never get popularly
known as Dick.
* • • *
Fitzsimmons' reported retirement recalls that
he’s close on 39 now— i.e. , 13 years older than Jeffries
(present world’s champion), 10 years senior to Sailor Shar-
key (whom he licked in short order recently) and Akron-
giant Buhlin (who went down before the M.L. freak a
month or so ago), and four years in front of “ Pompa-
dour ” Jim Corbett. Speaking without having gone into
the thing very minutely, the lathy, freckled-faced fighter
has been through 345 engagements, and always shaped up
in the neighborhood of 11.4 —sometimes lbs. under and
occasionally lbs. over. Fitz. was amateur premier of
Maoriland nearly 20 years ago. *
“Dan,” of Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus, has among
his performing nags “Teddy” Keys’ erstwhile reliable
Cadet, who pulled punters through many a, struggle over
both flat and jumps ; also 0.P., a one-time inmate of the
late Bill Kelso’s stables. Another good ’un with a
hurdle record, Sunburst, who achieved much distinction
in Q., completes a notable trio. Writer isn’t surprised at
nags finishing up in circus rings. Before most of them
quit the turf they’re fit enough for anything wanted on
sawdust. Have seen some pulled so often at one particu-
lar spot that even when the money was on thick they d
always instinctively ease off there.
* * * *
S. Loates heads the English winning jockeys
list with 62 wins, 70 seconds, and 56 thirds in 348 mounts.
Sit-on-his-neck Sloan is far down with 43 wins, 39 seconds,
85 thirds in 196 mounts, although his average is better.
* * * *
‘Yarrum” : Strange that Sydney pigeon-
flyers don’t advertise for their lost birds ! There are
dozens of valuable “ strays” in this (South Coast)district.
Was shown one the other day worth, at least, £lO. It
was branded under the wing, and had a silver ring on its
leg, but the finder, having no idea of the bird s value, had
contemplated “ puttin’ ’im in the pot.”
Smith was staying for a few days at a farm on
the swampy Mitta Mitta in N.E. Victoria. Ducks were
plentiful, but, alas ! it was close season. Smith’s holiday
included a Sunday, and it happened that a mob of ducks
came that day to a waterhole, convenient as to cover, and
close at hand. Desire overcoming scruples, Smith seized
a gun and crept on his prey 7, determined to risk it and
doubly break the law. Unnoticed, he got within range,
raised his gun, drew a bead —and determined, after all,
that it is a man’s duty to obey the law ; so he returned
mournfully empty-handed. His host later on told the
story to others as a “good thing,” which indue time
came to the ears of the local “perlice,” who promptly
served a summons, and, using the host as witness, secured
a conviction against Smith for “ carrying firearms on the
Sabbath ” —to the tune of £2. Smith says he’ll fire next
time—and hang principle.
* * * *
“ Jim Crow ” : The goriest football match writer
ever witnessed was contested t’other day by Korumburra
and Jumbunna, at the latter place, for the S. Gippsland
Premiership. The teams were mostly coal-miners, and
the spectators “ pals from underneath,” whose eloquence
left nothing to be desired. From start to finish it was
all slinging, rabbiting and stoush, the play ers going down
like ninepins immediately they got possession of the ball.
Whisky was served out at intervals, and at the :nish the
umpire was glad to escape with only his eye in a sling'.
* * * *
Hard Case : “ How did you get out last Satur-
day, Irish ? Bowled, eh ? ” Irish (new chum cricketer):
“No.” H.C. : “Caught?” I. : “No.” H.C. : “Stumped?”
I. : “Wrong again.” H.C. : “How then?” I. : “That
was it! The divil a one of ’em could tell, so they put it
in the scoring-book h.o. w.—how ! ”
* * * *
The prayer of the righteous English cricket
disciple for new bowling talent wherewith to smite the
Australians hip and stumps has certainly not been
answered this season. J. Gunn and Wass, the much-
talked-about Nottingham trundlers, are nothing remark-
able. Surrey has even now no one better than Tom
Richardson, whose best day was long ago. Rhodes, Hirst
and Haigh, who did most of the work for Yorkshire, the
champion county, are old opponents of the Australians,
and the thought of any of them coming along with the
next visiting team is not terrible. The Essex man,
Young, gave some promise of growing into an artist, but
that rather meteoric ex-mariner appears to have lost his
novelty without gaining any skill. The English bowlers
have been such a mediocre lot for the past few years that
a couple of really smart young ’uns may be looked for in
1901. They usually come in pairs over there, and the
intervals between arrivals are apt to be long. The pre-
sent interval has already been very long.
* * * *
They say that Arthur Shrewsbury on a slow
wicket is still an unrivalled batsman as a batsmaq. All
the same he’s a most uninteresting person to watch. The
correctness of his play wearies one. #
Long-distance cyclist Hale finished his task of
covering 100 miles a day (bar Sundays) for one year about
the end of Aug., and did better than necessary: In the
313 days 32,496 miles were covered. Object was to lower
the year’s record (32,479 miles) credited to Yankee wheel-
man George.
The great demand for M.L. coal for naval
and other purposes has almost created a local coal-
famine, and the coal co’s (mostly absentee-owned)
have piled on the prices for local consumption.
The democratic Maorilander is up in arms, and
Premier Seddon now proposes that all mines
leased from Govt, shall be forced either to keep
up a certain output sufficient always for local
supplies, at reasonable rates, or give up possession.
The idea is in strict conformity with the rights of
Property. When a landlord (the people) finds a
tenant (the mine-owner) using his property in a
way that tends to the impoverishment and incon-
venience of said landlord, it is quite natural that
he should eject that tenant. Any private landlord
would.


Dear Bulletin.— Re that Sydney D.T.
yam (quoted B. 15/9/’00) about the purse-
“ dipper ” leaving a valuable diamond ring in the
lady’s pocket. Some months ago I read of pre-
cisely the same thing happening in a London ’bus.
There appears to be something more in this than
mere coincidence.— Suspicious.
It may not be generally known that
Messrs. Edw. Row & Co. donated about £2O
worth of their well-known embrocation to the
various contingents, and they value the unsolicited
testimonial (which we publish in another column)
because Mr. Ross is a total stranger to them.*
A man committed for trial in a Sydney
court last week for stealing and conspiracy asked
the Bench to allow him a change of socks every
four days. The Bench : “Detective Blank will
see to that.” The accused: “No, he won’t.
Detective Blank never changes his. ”
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
In Russell-street, Melbourne, the other
morning, a raven-maned lady attired only in a
pair of boots and an abbreviated night-gown
astonished the business-wending lieges by
desoanting on the annoyance she received from the
superabundance of electricity in the atmosphere.
The arresting constable classed the lady as
“insulting behaviour,” but she turned out to be
merely jim-jams.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
The recent dragging out of the Wilkie
divorce case ought to warn Williamson and Mus-
grove (if they need any warning) not to take their
little difference into a Melb. law court for discus-
sion. But, presumably, those two old-stagers will
come to terms between themselves when they
meet. It is understood that a sum of £25,000 is at
present “locked up in the bank,” pending an
amicable settlement of the late “ Firm’s ” partner-
ship affairs; and, on behalf of the great Austra-
lian public, which likes to see good money put
into good theatrical shows, The Bulletin im-
plores Williamson and Musgrove to keep that
£25,000 away from the greedy paw and maw of
the law.
Many Sydney shopkeepers got a “facer ”
the other morning when they found the fronts of
their establishments stripped of everything in the
way of notice-board or advt.-sign that in any way
encroached upon the footpath. The clearance, it
was at first asserted, had been made by order of
the City Council; and the denial by the municipal
authorities of any knowledge of the matter does
not seem to have been at all freely accepted by the
aggrieved persons, who have in some instances had
£l5-worth of external window-blinds torn-down.
Most of the missing fittings have been found on a
Corporation-tip, but the mystery as to who
ordered their removal remains.
“Gunner” to The Bulletin :
A very curious thing was Adjutant-Gen. Mackenzie’s
“ explanation ” to N.S.W. Military Inquiry Committee, of
the “ system ”of appointing contingent officers. First a
list of (say) 20 names was prepared for submission to the
General to fill (say) 10 vacancies. And this list (preparer
unknown) was sent on to some other unknown (or at all
events unnamed) person, who in a week sent in his re-
port. As regarded the first Bush Contingent; “Many of
those selected were not bushmen ; it was" very difficult to
get men combining all the qualifications desired.” Thus
the alleged qualification of the corps was largely non-
existent. Again, “In the selection of officers, the com-
manding-officers’ views should have great weight,” said
the Adjutant-General. Well, why didn’t they allow Com-
manding-Officer Airey’s views as much Weight as Com-
manding-Officer Mackay’s, instead of allowing Mr. Daily
Telegraph Chairman Carey to select, or help select, Col.
Airey’s officers ? Also, does Mr. Mackenzie mean for a
moment to imply that the views of the commanding-
officer of a British regiment have any weight in the selec-
tion of his subordinates?
Ex-Premier Reid in Melbourne :
Every duty that appeared in the tariff not for revenue
purposes was a fraud. What was to be done, then ? Why
let every gentleman in Victoria who has enjoyed any
beneficial interest under Protection get ready for that
spasm of courage which every boy and every puppy
should be equal to when thrown in the water—to swim
for himself.
So G. H. Reid, who, when Premier of N.S.W.,
left heavy protective duties on sugar, beer, fruit,
tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, biscuits, confectionery,
jams, jellies, molasses, treacle and wine, was
either a hypocrite who didn’t believe in his own
Freetrade doctrine, or he was the wrong kind of
puppy. Reid got half into the water, and then
the haste with which he came out when he felt the
cold, invigorating fluid on his tail, was pathetic.
YORK HOTEL
ADELAIDE.
B. B. ROENNFELDT.
Missing Friends.
|y| RS. G. FREEMAN, of Thornborough, Queens-
land, wants address of JAMES AUGUSTUS PARKER,
formerly Assayer at Thornborough.
‘RANK FITZSIMONS.
If this should meet his eye, please write home.
Mother anxious for news.
Photography
Up to Date
KODAK Photography
is the simplest Photography.
KODAK
Cameras re-
quire no dark room for changing
the films.
KODAK
at prices to su
16s. to £7 15s.
Cameras are
sold at prices to suit all purses.
Illustrated Price List (A) Post Free.
. KODAK, Limited,
“THE BLOCK,”
284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at London, Paris, Berlin, Brussels, Vienna,
St. Petersburg, Moscow. Rochester, N.Y.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10h3. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
ip
OLD
So V SUNBX4g^%Fi NG *1
€p\c HAptD' m%£> s
V \Nv &C..&e.c
y~n
P *»ET
ORS ,
Legal .Notice.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
- 1 - WALES.—In Equity.
In the Matter of the Companies Act
And
In the Matter of THE WARRATTA GOLD-MINING
COMPANY.—In Liquidation.
TENDERS are hereby invited and will be received up
to noon on THURSDAY, the 15th day of November next,
for the purchase of the undermentioned Assets herein,
viz.:—
1. Four Gold-mining Leases, situated near Mil-
parinka, Parish of Warratta, County of Tongo-
woko (Albert Mining District), and numbered
115, 159, 160, and 161 respectively, having a
total area of 36J acres.
2. Plant, consisting of two Boilers, one twenty-
horse-power Engine, together with Winding
Gear, Pumping Plant, Twelve-head Stamper
Battery, Manager's Office, complete Cyanide
Plant, with Roasting and Muffle Furnaces and
necessary appliances for assaying, &c.
Tenders for above lots may be made jointly or sepa-
rately.
The above Leases are on what is known as the Witta-
breena Reef, and there are some seventeen shafts on the
property averaging about 85ft. each in depth, the main
shaft being about 225 ft. deep. There is also a good dam
on the property.
Further particulars can be obtained, and inventories of
plants, tools, &c., and conditions of sale, can be inspected
at my office, and also at the following places, viz.:—
Broken Hill, Messrs. J. Soutar and Co., auctioneers;
Bourke, Messrs. Nancarrow, Bartlett, and Co., auc-
tioneers ; Melbourne, Messrs. Gordon and Gotch.
A deposit of 10 per cent, must accompany each tender
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Terms cash.
LANCELOT T. LLOYD,
Official Liquidator.
182 Phillip-street, Sydney,
6th September, 1900.
__ Government Notices.
Postal and Electric Telegraph Dept.,
General Post Office,
Sydney, 10th September, 1900.
fTIENDERS are invited for the performance, from the Ist
- 1 - January next, of a large number of Mail Services
throughout the Colony, and will be received at the Gene-
ral Post Office up to noon on Monday, the 15th October
next. Tenders must be addressed to the Deputy Post-
master-General, Sydney, and endorsed “ Tender for Con-
veyance of Mails.” For full particulars see Government
Gazette, a file of which is kept at every Post Office in the
Colony.
7a 18
W. P. CRICK.
GOOD HAIR FOR
ALL !
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Haa gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and (riving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., 6s. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
ii®" For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
* HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
SST For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
|_| ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart
THE CRANE-POWER COMPANY.
THIRD WEEK of the TRIUMPHANT PRODUCTION,
The Oliriatian.
A Carefully and Specially Prepared Oast of 33 Speaking
Characters.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
HE A.A.A. MILITARY CAMP AND RED
CROSS BAZAAR,
Under Distinguished Patronage, will be opened
in the
Town Hall, Sydney, Sept. 25.
SEASON TICKETS, to admit to Opening Cere-
mony, and for the Continuance of the
SINGLE TICKETS, Is. Children, Half-price.
OPENING CEREMONY, 2s. 6d.
Among the Attractions will be the following
competitions:—
1. Junior Pianoforte Playing, under 14 years of
age; Sight Reading. Judge, Miss Elsie
Hall (Silver Cup).
2. Writing Competition—Post Card.
3. Home-made Confectionery (best collection),
10s.
4. Home-made Cakes (best collection), 10s.
5. Ladies’ Spray, 10s. 6d.
6. Hat Trimming Competition (Gentlemen
only), 10s.
7. Best Dressed Doll (All Comers), £1 Is.
8. A. A. A. Badge worked in silk, Gold Ring.
All entries will close on the morning of 25th September.
Competition to become the property of the Bazaar
and Sold.
pindon Harriers’ Hunt Club
V RA.CE
To be held on the
Moonee Valley Racecourse
(VICTORIA),
Saturday, September 22, 1900.
Trial Hunters’ Steeplechase.—Amateur riders.
Epping; Hurdle Raco.
Bolinda Vale Bracelet Stakes.—Horsea to run
in Ladies’ Names and Colors.
Findon Harriers’ Cup.— Amateur riders. Gold
whip to rider of winner.
Bouth Yan Yean Handicap.
Craig-ieburn Steeplechase.
Woodstock Jumpers’ Flat Race.
7 race s 7 races
515 SOVS. IN STAKES A3T 4 JUMPING EVENTS
First Race at 1.60.
R. M. OUTHBERTSON,
Secretary.
Publishers’ Notices.
SONGS * MUSIC
•
TWO NUMBERS
.. OP ..
ALLAN’S ..
Australian
Music
I
Books
m
n-
WORTH YOUR HAVING.
Mach, or Posted
112
Ho. s.—Fourteen Popular
Songs.
Little Nell .. .. Linley
Rocked in the Cradle of
the Deep.
A Hundred Fathoms Deep
Shattuck
Barney, Take Me Home
Again
Home, Sweet Home Bishop
On the Banks of Allan
Water
In Happy Moments
Wallace
Terence’s Farewell to Kath-
leen
My Pretty Jane Bishop
What Will You Do, Love ?
Lover
Rose Softly Blooming
Spohr
The Death of Nelson
Braham
Rule Britannia Arne
God Save the Queen Bull
No. 6.—Favorite Piano-
forte Pieces.
The Banjo .. GottschaUe
The Shepherd’s Evening
Song Blake
Air Louis XIII. Ghys
The Harmonious Black-
smith Handel
The Shepherd Boy Wilson
Schlummerlied Schumann
Si Oiseau J’6tais Henselt
Marche Funfcbre Chopin
Scherzo Brillant
Wollenhaupt
Nos. 7 and 8 will appear
in “ Bulletin ” next week.
Obtainable at all Muyicsellers throughout Australia
or direct from, the Publishers,
ALLAN & CO. 276 Sc 278 Collins-st.,
Proprietary Ltd. Melbourne.
JUST OUT, FOURTH EDITION. ~
Price ss. 6d„ Posted.
Drover's Guide
by P. R. GORDON,
Chief Inspector of Stock and Brands,
Queensland.
With New Stock Route Maps of
Queensland and New South Wales.
HifATSON, FERGUSON & CO., Brisbane.
And all Booksellers.
AA
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXX X xxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxx
XXXXXXXXXXXXX X xxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxx
Wbo’S yotir Hatter ?
You will certainly favor us with an Order
when you receive a Copy of our
Illustrated
Just Issued.
fiat pamphlet
If you send us your Name and Address we will
forward you a copy, also the Latest Portrait of
Generals Roberts, Buller and Kitchener — FREE.
Write for One !
HORDERN BROTHERS,
DIRECT IMPORTERS.
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-Bt., Sydney.
AA
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
.XX
,xx
XX
XX
[XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxx
Amusements.
QENTENARY HALL, BYDNEY.
Commencing Friday, Sept. 21st.
THE MAN FROM ORANGE RIVER.
FOUR ILLUSTRATED LECTURES
BY
“BANJO” PATERSON
neuter’s Representative,
and Special Correspondent of the
Stdnbt Morning Herald and the Argus.
THE ONLY AUSTRALIAN WAR CORRESPONDENT
who witnessed nearly
ALL THE GREAT EVENTS OF THE CAMPAIGN.
The Lecture Entertainments will include :
1. Australians in Action; or, How We Learnt
Soldiering.
2. The Tartan, the Shamrock and Tommy
Atkins; or, Our Imperial Brothers in Arms.
8- The Ever Victorious Bobs and his Fighting
Generals.
4. Subject to be announced in Daily Papers.
Communications from Country Towns desirous of hear-
ing the Author of “The Man from Snowy River,” the
most Adventurous of War Correspondents, to be addressed
to the Manager,
R. S. SMYTHE, “ Palings,” George-st., Sydney.
ITZGERALD BRO.’S CIRCUS, MENAGERIE
AND NEW CONTINENTAL COMPANY.
A GREAT and GLORIOUS SUCCESS. Patronised
nightly by thousands of delighted amusement seekers.
Location : BENEVOLENT SOCIETY’S GROUNDS.
(Opp. Redfern Railway Station).
The DUNBAR TRIO, MDLLE. RHODESIA, the
JANDASOHEVSKY FAMILY, SISTERS WINGATE,
ROSE AQUINALDO, THE CINNEZALLAS, KARL
BROTHERS, MDLLE, KATIE AND MDLLE. MAR-
GARETTA, GUILLAUME AND AUGUSTE, &c., &c.
The Greatest Combination of Arenic Talent Ever Seen
in Australia.
Matinees: WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
The Splendid Band of 20 Performers, under the con-
ductorship of Herr Von der Mehden.
PRICES : 45., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
T. MORRIS, Agent. F. JONES, Press Rep.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
1900. ANNUAL OPERA SEASON. 1900.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 22,
The LAST SIX NIGHTS OF THE SEASON,
Revival of Gilbert and Sullivan’s ever popular Opera,
'l'll© Grondoliera.
Plan, Nicholson’s. IST* PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
-|“ HE AT RE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of BLAND HOLT’S
Convincing and Realistic Melodrama,
HOW LONDON LIVES.
SATURDAY EVENING SEPTEMBER 22,
NEW BABYLON.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Sivy’s.
RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampler.
ALFRED DAM PIER.
AND THE POPULAR COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING EXCEPT FRIDAYS,
“ DRINK.”
SHAKESPEARE FRIDAY, MACBETH.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY NIGHT, MATINEE SATURDAY.
CHARLES ARNOLD
and his
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in George H. Broadhurst’s Enormously Successful Farce
Comedy,
What Happened to Jones.
PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
L. J. LOHR, Manager.
QENTENARY HALL, YORK-ST., SYDNEY.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27,
In the presence of His Excellency, EARL BEAUCHAMP,
Vocal and Instrumental Recital,
MIBS JESSIE KING,
The Great English Contralto.
HERR GERARD VOLLMAR.
The Celebrated Violoncellist.
6f1., Bs., 2s. Plan at Paling’s.
J. EDWARD SYKES, Manager.
ICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
A Real Hearty Australian Welcome Greeted
THE THREE HAYTORS.
in their original “ Me, Too, Charlie.” Great Reception
of FERRY, THE HUMAN FROG.
Last Night but Three of England’s Burlesque Queen,
BILLEE BARLOW.
OLAF SCHRADER, Billy M’Clain, M. Cordelia, Walker
and May, and all our Great Double Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Gigantic and Enthusiastic Success of
PAUL’S ANIMATOCRAPHE.
THE PATTERSON BROS.,
America’s Wonderful Horizontal Bar Performers.
Mr. HARRY SHINE, Mr. TOD CALLAWAY Miss
JESSIE WILLIAMS, Mr. WILL WHITBURN, Roy
Cashin, Alma Gray, Dora Taylor, E. Brinkman, Bob Bell,
and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
-THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE. ~'
■ Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING, JOHN F. SHERIDAN and GRAOIE
WHITEFORD in the Musical-Farcical Comedy,
A. Trip to Chicago.
Bright Scenes, Catchy Music, Ludicrous Situations, Song
and Dance. A Wealth of Splendor.
PrioM— Bs., 25., Is. od., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.


Nervousness and General Debility.
Suffered enough to break
any Constitution.
Another Thorough Restoration.
The Case of
MRB. FRANCES STARR.
(by a special.)
Our representative called upon Mrs.
''ranees Starr, of 206 Victoria Street North,
Darlinghurst, for the purpose of ascertaining
die particulars concerning her recovery from
a distressing attack of nervousness and
general debility, and upon explaining the
nature of his errand was cordially invited to
take a seat.
“To what cause do you assign the com-
mencement of your suffering ? ” enquired the
reporter.
“ Well, I must tell you that some years
ago I contracted an internal complaint which
caused me to undergo medical treatment,
and the pain I endured at that time was
enough to break down any woman’s con-
stitution for life. When the doctors had
done all they could for me I was too weak
to do anything, and as I have always been
used to doing plenty of work you may guess
how low-spirited I felt. My nerves were
quite shattered, and the simplest thing
would cause me to tremble most violently.
It is impossible for me to describe the head-
aches I used to have, and they probably
seemed all the more painful because I could
scarcely ever get to sleep, and whenever I
did manage to snatch an hour’s doze it was
of such a restless description that I did not
feel any benefit from it. I would wake up
with a start, and my nerves would shake all
over my body. A feeling of abject depression
was always upon me, for I commenced to
despair of ever getting well and strong
again. When in these despondent moods I
was frequently seized with hysterics, and
would sit and cry for hours. My face was
thin and as white as a ghost’s, and my lips
were dry and bloodless. Whenever I at-
tempted to walk about a sensation of giddi-
ness would come upon me, and I had great
difficulty in saving myself from falling. To
make matters worse, I was everlastingly
catching colds—through being so weak, I
suppose —and so I had to wrap myself in
flannels ; but that did not prevent me catch-
ing them all the same. My constitution
was that weak and exhausted, and there
appeared so little hope of recovery, that I
lost interest in life.”
“Your nerves must have been greatly
anstrung ? ”
“ That is no name for it. They were in a
state of collapse; for the slightest noise of
an unusual kind would cause a feeling of
terror to run through me, and I did not like
being left by myself. The sound of children’s
voices was a source of annoyance to me, and
I was nearly always in an irritable mood.
My greatest trouble, 1 believe, was an entire
absence of appetite, because I knew that if
I could persuade myself to eat a little there
was yet a chance of becoming stronger.
But it rarely occurred that I could touch
any food, and, as a consequence, I became as
thin as a skeleton.”
“Were you receiving medical advice all
this time ? ”
“Oh, yes ; but it did not improve my
condition in the least. I was thoroughly
prostrated for weeks, and unable to attend
to my business, although I took all the
medicines and pills that the doctors pre-
scribed—all to no purpose. Nothing they
ordered me did the slightest good. I was
becoming weaker and more nervous every
day through my inability to eat and sleep,
and would spend my time picturing a miser-
able future for myself. The physic I used
to take according to my dootor’s instruc-
tions had but one effect—that of making me
feel sick, and increasing the misery of my
feelings after each dose. My condition was
about as hopeless as it is possible to imagine,
and I felt quite sure that I would never be
able to go about my work like I used to in
the days of my health and strength, which
appeared to have vanished for ever. Friends
would call and sympathise with me, and
advise me not to take any more of my
doctor’s medicines, but to try something
else. I did not follow their recommendations
for a long time, as I thought the medical
man who was attending me ought to know
the best remedies for my case. But at last
my patience would hold out no longer, and
I began taking mixtures that I saw adver-
tised, and gave them a fair trial ; but they
did me more harm than good. My hopes
were altogether shattered. There seemed
to be nothing for it now but to drag out an
existence of misery, as everything I had
taken failed to cure me. But lam thankful
to say that a lady living opposite, who had
a delicate daughter, happened to hear of my
condition and paid me a visit. The good
soul told me that her daughter had been a
similar sufferer to myself, and the same
medicine that had cured her would cure me.
‘lf you only take Clements Tonic I’m sure
it will restore your health,’ my friend said.
I naturally felt very doubtful about it, after
all the stuff I had taken before. I thought
I was incurable. But, at all events, I bought
a bottle of Clements Tonic, and by the time
it was finished my health had greatly im-
proved. My nerves were much steadier,
and the sleep that came to me, and which I
needed so much, relieved the dreadful head-'
aches from which I used to suffer so terribly.
My appetite was at once regained, and my
friends were delighted with my steady pro-
fress. I took five bottles altogether, and
uring that time I grew stronger and
brighter every day. The nervousness dis-
appeared, and I speedily became as healthy
and happy as you see me now. I never
experience headaches, and my meals are
always a pleasure to me. I can go through
a good day’s work without feeling any ill
effects, and am so grateful to Clements
Tonic for my complete recovery that you
can publish my case in any form you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Frances Starr, of 206 Victoria Street North,
Darlinghurst, Sydney, in the Colony of New South
Wales, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting of
four folios and consecutively numbered from one to
four, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic,
and also contains my full permission to publish in
any way my statements—which I give voluntarily,
without receiving any payment; and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act
made and passed in the ninth year of the reign of
her present Majesty, intituled “An Act for the more
effeotual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken
and made in the various Departments of the Govern-
ment of New South Wales, and to substitute" Declara-
tions in lieu thereof, and for the suppression of
voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits."
r
Declared at Sydney, this 27th day of July, on®
thousand nine hundred, before me,
FREDERICK PENNY, J.P.
FURNITURE, CARPETS, BEDSTEADS
AND BEDDING.
A. Hall & Co.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, covered in Rich
Tapestry and Silk Plush Borders—Couch,
2 Armchairs, and 4 Small Carved Chairs,
4 Guineas. o
A. Hall & Co.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Color—Wardrobe,
dress compartment, enclosed by bevel plate-
glass door; Duchesse Dressing Table to
correspond, Marble-top Washstand, 2 Chairs,
and Towel Rail. £6 15s.
A. Hall & Co.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, Very Strong—
-6 Padded-back Chairs, Pair Easy Chairs, and
Couch, all Spring-seated. £5 15s.
A. Hall & Co.
FULL-SIZED HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Extended Footrail and Brass-mounted ; Best
Kapok Mattress, Bolster, and 2 Pillows,
Triple Wire Mattress.
£4 15s. complete.
A. HALL & COMPANY,
561, 563, 565 & 567 George-street, Sydney.
Hall’s New Catalogue, 72 Pages, 500 Illustrations, Posted Free.
Country Orders Packed Free.
Open all day Saturday until 9 p.m. Close 1 p.m. Wednesday.
Leave Tram at Liverpool-stree or Hall’s.
LADIES !
mr Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
111 BtOCk. . |■■a m mm m m
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales • • • \
J3 arbors’ Supply House I
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
‘DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
SS‘ THIS m THE LATEST TYPE!
GRAMOPHONE-or
ZONOPHONE!
zv
BARGAINS!
(Join Slot Graphophone £c
Same as formerly, £l6. **
Gem Phonograph, 30/-
RECORDS, 2/6 REDUCTION FOR QUANTITY.
Everything Reduced. Try l
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Itowe Street, Sydney (Only),
(near G.P.0.)
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEI:'Y COMPBXITIOIV.
WTISThiS ie ran^s °/ SPIRITS.
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England,
BEWARE OB' SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARJ POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Eruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure aud wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining- or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves iu the
following flavours Lemon, Orauge,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors : —GOOOALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco, Perth, W. A.&6B,King St.,Melbourne
Business Announcements
Are probably aware of the
fact—although many peo-
ple obviously never give it a thought—
that there is a strong and intimate affinity
between your feet and the state of your
health. This remark is not made in any
personal manner, but simply with a view
to drawing your attention to the necessity
of exercising care in the choice of foot-
wear. Poor shoes do not keep out damp,
and many a fatal illness has had its
origin in wet feet.
COMMON-SENSE URCES
You to dispense with cheap and ill-made
shoes. They are positively dearer in the
end, and, for your health’s sake, should be
avoided.
The ‘ HERZ ’ Shoe
Is the shoe you ought to wear, because it
is as near perfection as a shoe can be.
LEATHER. The finest quality pro-
curable.
SHAPE . . Elegant and permanent.
PRICE . . Just right for high-class
goods.
You
Sold by HUNTER’S everywhere
USB
SPOONEE’S
z
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL. CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Medical
55 YEARS PROVEN EFFICACY.
'
m
:
©
>VS r uolrr
\m
yy
O
53
..iriiijlilil
sa
aa
c/
Ta*£
i
of all Chemists
[throughout Great Britain a the Colonies
wumCatharticum Pills purc!/%tobi«,
““ COACUUNE
Transparent Cement for all Broken Articles
r aouT v
PILLS.
F °R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.


STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S
RELIABLE TIMEKEEPERS.
8. D. & Oo.’s Special Value in Waltham Lever Watches,
has best-finished movement, enamel dial, gold hands, heavy
hunting Hall-marked silver cases, and is recommended as
Reliable Timekeeper. £3.
S. D. & Oo.’s Ladies’ Silver English
Lever Watches. Has fine-finished
'im capped jewelled movement, En-
ved Silver Cases, £3 10s.
S. D. & Co.’s 18-ct. Gold Keyless “ Prin-
cess ” Watch has finely-finished
jewelled movement, strong-, solid 18-ct.
Gold Engraved Cases, perfect keyless
action, £5 10s.; Half-Hunting,. £6 ; open
face, £4 10s.; also in Silver Half-Hunting
or Full-Hunting Cases, £2 10s.; open face,
£2. Warranted for 2 years.
9SS s :
§
m
m !
SB
S. D. & Oo.’s “ Excelsior ” Keyless English
Lever is unsurpassed by any watch. It is compact,
convenient and reliable, dust and damp-proof, has
best }-plate movement, full jewelled in rubies ; real
chronometer balance, heavy Hall-marked Silver Cases,
each guaranteed for 5 years, £6 10s. ; in heavy 18-ct.
Gold Cases, £22 ; open face, £lB 10s.; also made Key-
wind Hunting, in massive Silver Cases, at £5. Strongly
recommended. Silver Keyless Hunting Rotherham
English Levers, £6 10s.
Beware of Imitations
S. D. & Co. s “Derby” Double Chronograph gives an
instantaneous record of any event in minutes and seconds ; the
movement is |-plate lever, jewelled in rubies, fine chronometer
expansion balance, Brequet spring. In Solid Silver Cases, open
face, £6 10s.; Hunting, £7 10s. ; in 18-ct. Gold Cases, open face,
£2O; Hunting, £22.
S. D. & Co.’s Gent.’s Gold Keyless Hunting
Lever Watch has fine-quality J-plate lever
movement, jewelled in rubies, chronometer ex-
pansion balance, perfect keyless winding, strong
18-ct. Gold Cases, £l5 10s.; in open face, £l4 1 Os. ;
size smaller, £l2 10s.; in Hunting Cases, Solid
Silver, £2 10s.
D. & Co.’s “ Cclipse ” Watches iiuest quality }-plate
full-capped, dust-proof movements, jewelled in 8 holes. Extra
heavy sterling silver cases, and are perfect timekeepers. The best
watches at the price ever sold. In Hunting Cases, £2 ; Crystal
Front, £1 10s.
The “Triumph” Watch, for Gentlemen or
Youths, is a Gigantic Triumph over any other low-
priced watch already in the market. Polished
Nickel, keyless, short wind, 18s. 6d.
S. D. & Co.’s English Hunting Lever Watches contain special patented improve-
ments, ensuring durability, timekeeping, and freedom from accident in wear. The movements
are full-capped, dust-proof, jewelled in rubies, and the cases are Strong Sterling Silver, Hall-
marked, £3 10s. Warranted for 3 years. Special quality, with chronometer expansion
balance, and 3 pairs extra jewels, £4 10s.
Rotherham English Lever, Hunting Silver Key-wind, £4 10s.
S. D. & Co.’s Lady’s Gold Keyless Wal-
tham Lever Watch, with best
finished f-plate movement, patent safety
barrel, expansion balance, jewelled, strong-
solid Gold Engraved Hunting Cases, per-
fect keyless action, sunk seconds, and
enamelled dial, £6105., exceptional value ;
Silver Cases, £3 55.; open face, £3.
S. D. & Co.'s JJ..U..0 .o-rt. lucid Key-
less 1-pla.te Levers, in beautifully
engraved or plain cases, fine full-jewelled
movements, chronometer balance, and'all
latest improvements, are thoroughly re-
commended. Each watch warranted for
6 years. Open face, £lO 10s.; Hunting,
£l2 10s.
S. D. & Co.’s Lady’s “Eclipse” Sil-
ver Watch has finest quality f-plate
movement. jewelled in 8 holes, beauti-
fully Engraved Case, elegant tinted opal
dial, a perfect timekeeper, £1 10s. ; in
Hunting Cases, £2. Warranted for 2
years.
S. D. & Co.’s Ladies’Magnificent 18-ct.Gold’
Keyless “Nonpariel” Watches are
truly a speciality amongst specialities,
much recommended to ladies who desire
a unique, compact and elegant inexpen-
sive Gold Watch. The entire watch is
most exquisitely finished, fine full
jewelled movement, 18-carat Gold Strong
Cases, perfect keyless action, convenient
and reliable. Hunting Cases, £7 10s. ;
open face, £6 10s. Warranted for 3 years.
■
m
ESS*
:
S. D. & Oo.’s Gent.’s Keyless Waltham Lever
Watch, finest quality f plate movement, fitted
with patent safety barrel, expansion balance,
Brequet spring, heavy Government Hall-marked
Silver Hunting Cases, £3 ; in 10-ct. Gold Cases,
£9 10s.; 14-ct. Gold Cases, £lllos. ; 18-ct. Gold
Cases, £l6 10s.
Any of the Watches illustrated above will be sent, seeurely packed and Post Free, on receipt of remittance.
412 George Street and Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
BYDNEY. MELBOURNE. PERTH. AUCKLAND. WELLINGTON. LONDON.


LIVER TORPOR
USNE
B
EXACT SIZE
OFTHEBOTXLE
KUTNOW’S
improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
€
l
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap
4 i ■— London:
41, FARRfNGDON ROAD, E.C.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK. ,
EXACT SIZE
OFTHE BOTTLE
By Cleansing and Stimulating the Liver and Promoting the
Flow of the Bile into the Intestines, Kutnow’s Powder
Dispels Biliousness and its Kindred Symptoms.
'Sufferers from biliousness are also likely to be victims to low spirits, headache, insomnia, nausea, &c., as
all these troubles are simply so many evidences of a torpid and disordered state of the liver. The bile is
intended to be a natural deodorant, and aperient, but when the liver is deranged, instead of the bile getting into
the intestines and aiding in the digestion of the food, it becomes mixed with the blood, and causes the skin to
assume a yellow tinge.
When this occurs the most effective remedy is furnished by a course of KUTNOW’S Improved Effer-
vescent Carlsbad POWDER, which, by washing out of the liver the impurities that unhygienic living has caused
it to become clogged with, restores all the digestive organs to an active, healthy condition. Kutnow’s Powder
also renders the bile more fluid, thereby promoting its flow into the intestines, and further helping to dispel the
biliousness which the liver disorder has produced.
With the restoration of the liver to healthy activity the low spirits, headache, insomnia, nausea, and
other symptoms of its sluggishness will disappear, and the appetite will improve, the energy increase, and the
entire system be benefited.
' -♦*. <
Kutnow’s Powder is an aperient in which the drastic, lowering, and nauseous features of the ordinary
aperient medicines are entirely absent. It is composed of the most curative, healing, and purifying elements of
the European mineral-spring waters, plus a few other simple and health-giving ingredients. It contains all the
curative, cleansing, and medicinal properties of the most famous of these waters without any of their undesirable
properties. It is found particularly useful in treating those diseases that arise from an excessive accumulation
in the system of uric acid, and for this reason many of the most eminent medical practitioners in this and other
countries constantly prescribe it for Rheumatism, Gout, Eczema, Sciatica, &c.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles of all Chemists and Medicine
Vendors, See that the Registered Trade Mark , “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and the autograph
facsimile signature, “S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld.,” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness.
Insist on 6( K TIT NO W’S, 9 ’ and firmly refuse any substitutes; they are worthless.
PROPRIETORS PROPRIETORS IN «
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C. KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New York City.
At the Cross-Roads.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is the last time,” she resolved: “To-night
will decide.”
Simultaneously he resolved the same thing.
When a man and woman have been married for
a good while, their love, grown no less sincere,
drops from the serial height at which it first
floated, to the prosaic, but safer, level of domes-
ticity. To many too warm-blooded, too affection-
ate people, this fall to a more comfortable, less
intense warmth is painful to a high degree, and,
like most things painful, is misconstrued. This is
the dangerous season in married-life. This is the
period when both man and wife stand at the
Cross-Roads, perplexed and passionate, for the
blood is still hot and sensitive, the life still full of
opportunities, hopes, and futures, seductive and
bewildering.
Into the woman’s ear the devil of dissatisfaction
had cooed “You are not happy,” and despite her
verbal denial her heart told her she was not.
There was such an unsatisfied longing at her
heart, such a superabundant fountain of affection
out of which she wanted to give to the man ; but
he had become cold.
As for the man, lie had settled into a very com-
fortable, everyday mode of life. He had got used
to the company and proprietorship of his wife,
and a little careless; but still his affection was
ardent, and sometimes he felt, with a dull, com-
plaining ache at his heart that she was growing
rather restrained towards him —regarding him
less.
And then across the paths of both crept devils
to tempt them. His was a not very handsome
woman. He had met her several times without
remarking any distinguishing characteristics, but
eventually the fascination of her nature fell upon
him.
He saw it first at an evening-at-home, in which
he had found himself seated with her in a secluded
recess—afterwards, he thought, by her manoeuvring.
She was decidedly handsome, he thought—Night
personified ! Around her head tumbled her mazy
mass of shining black hair, coiled loosely to her
shoulders. Her eyes spoke voluptuous sweetness ;
there was about her a delicious, captivating odour ;
every twist of her shoulder was intended to fasci-
nate —and succeeded. She turned with delightful
coquetry to whisper something in his ear, and
breathed the sweetest, most intoxicating of per-
fumes on to his face, and moved her lips and eyes
tantalisingly before his eyes, till he felt he could
not refrain from drawing the enchanting face to
him, and covering it with kisses. His senses were
excited to the perception of unrealities. Earth
seemed to fade, and lie was alone witli this crea-
ture in a passionate Heaven, as he heard her
speaking into his ear well-considered flatteries,
and bit-by-bit putting an irresistible temptation
on him.
The wife’s tempter was not so fascinating, but he
was sympathetic. He had a capability of agreeing
with everybody, of fitting himself into the moods
anti opinions of others. In appearance he was an
exaggerated shop-walker ; yet, somehow, he was
allowed to say things no other man dared say.
‘‘You are not happy,” he told the woman in an
insinuating, sympathetic voice one day ; using the
very words her unseen devil had put to her. Then
he spoke to her about future happiness, until she
came to regard him as the angel of Hope itself—
in a starched collar ; and began to rely on him for
comfort. Her husband was such a good, dear
man, but he was so rough and unsympathetic.
At the same time her husband was resolving
that, while she was the sweetest woman in the
world, she did not possess the passionate devotion
of the Temptress.
And at last one evening the Temptress declared
herself. She had often given hints before, but
now she bm-st out with full confession.
“ Where is your wife ? ” she inquired, suddenly.
“ Oh, she is not here ; I left her at the Bourkes’
and came on, because ” He didn’t say why—
perhaps he hadn’t realised till that moment.
“The love of these milk-and-water creatures
never endures a winter. Now, mine could turn
winter to summer itself. Hers is already dying.”
The man moved uneasily.
“ Ernest,” she whispered, putting her face before
his, “ do you not think that to have my love would
be delicious—better than hers ? ”
He turned white at hearing her so address him.
It was very, very sweet, but it brought the appre-
hension of a catastrophe.
“ It is true, Ernest, I love you. Love you wit
a burning, imperishable love ! Think what it is—
a never-dying, unquenchable, burning desii’e!
You are not a statue of marble, or a block of
ice, are you? Even so, I shall melt you to
the heat of my passion.”
He experienced a kind of shock ; not altogether
unpleasant, but terrible ; and did not respond.
“ Kiss me, Ernest! Cover my face with kisses,
Ernest! ”
“Don’t! —don’t!” he gasped. “For God’s
sake, don’t! Think of what you are doing ! ”
“I shall not! —I will not ! I only think of you,
Ernest. You and I are alone in the world—our
paradise. There is the whole earth for us. to
wander upon. My life, my heart, my fortune —
they are all yours.”
“ My wife ! ” stammered the man.
“Think of my love —hot, hot, hot!—and com-
pare it to her milk-and-water affection —already
cooling. Feel the touch of my lips—there—and
there —and the embrace of my arm, so —and make
your choice ! ”
He could not resist her. Like a man overcome
by some powerful drug, he experienced sensations
of Heaven, but knew no reality. Still, when he
left her, he gathered his reason against tier, and
championed against her fascination the claims of
the sensitive little woman at home.
But her tempter had not been idle. He had
been discoursing to her in a sympathetic tone on
the injustices women receive from men, and the
latter’s unworthiness, while she listened, with
growing wonder. Was Ernest, as he hinted other
men were, false to her ? No! no! But, then,
why was he so cold ? She shuddered, and looked
to her companion for sympathy.
“Why should women be compelled, therefore,
to be so true to husbands who are not true to
them ? A woman only does herself right who
leaves an husband that has wronged her.”
She approved the sentiment, not caring what it
meant. She only heard his cooing, sympathetic
tones.
Suddenly he burst out with a declaration of
passion.
“Mary! Why do you stand it? Do you not
see how cold he is? —how little he loves you?
There is more love for you in my little finger than
in his whole anatomy. Mary ! Mary ! It is not
wrong. Consent to fly with me, away from him
to where we shall be eternally happy, and I’ll live
for no happiness but yours.”
“ Mr. Watkins! ” exclaimed Mary, really
frightened and angry. Then she burst into tears.
“Oh, I wish you hadn’t! I wish you hadn’t!
You have only made me more unhappy. Why
did you say this ? I did like you so ! ”
“ I do not want you to like me, Mary ; I want
you to love me—to love me ! Why do you refuse ?
I love you hotly—passionately ; he does not at all.
There would be no harm if you fled with me.”
Then suddenly he changed his tone. “Poor
little girl! Poor little girl ! ” he cooed, and in
another minute she had her face buried in his
shoulder.
“ Remember,” he said when he left; “ telegraph
to me to meet you at the railway at 11 o’clock " >
morrow night, if you can be ready in time —or to
make another appointment.”
“Unless I change my mind,” murmured she,
faintly.
“You will not do that.” He smiled in bold
assurance.
So it was that on the morrow husband and wife
resolved that that should be the last of those un-
certain days in which each knew not if the other
cared. And yet neither dared make advances
to tire other, for dread of a cold repulse. The day
passed in agony; the night succeeded; and
eventually the woman rose, as if tired.
“Good-night, Ernest,” she said. “lam going
to bed ; I am tired.”
“ Why, what is the matter, Mary ? Nothing
wrong, I hope ? ”
“Oh, nothing. I’m merely tired,”
“Good-night, then, dearest.” She lingered;
the clock struck eight. Possibly she expected
him to rise and kiss her ; but he had resumed his
paper, which he was ostentatiously reading, upside-
down : possibly he expected her to cross the room
and kiss him. But she left suddenly, with a sigh
Of impatience, and both were disappointed.
“I shall resist no longer,” she resolved. “ It is
better not. He does not care.”
Yet a sudden tenderness seized her and she
could hardly refrain from turning back to him, to
beg him to take her in his arms, and love her
again ; but the steel strength of an insulted pride
and the terrible dread of a cold repulse rose be-
tween them.
At nine o’clock a servant entered to the man
with a note.
“ Missus said to give this if she wasn’t back at
nine, sir,” she explained.
“What! —has she gone out?” demanded the
man.
“Yes, sir, nearly an hour,” said the servant
with a slight elevation of the brows.
“Yes, yes, I know—l was forgetting. Go
now,” said the man, helplessly staring at the note
in his hand, dreading its contents. When she had
gone he tore it open, discovering a sheet of paper
covered with an evidently pain fully-written scrawl,
smudged and blotted with tears. The writer had
apparently been suffering bitterly.
“I am leaving you, because I think you are
tired of me. Do not think hardly of me ; because
I am leaving you only for that reason, and I can’t
bear it, and I will never forget you—never.
Good-bye.”
At first he was simply annoyed ; then the full
comprehension of his loss bore in on him with a
sensation of vast, fathomless emptiness. He
rushed to her room, saw that some of her dresses
and her jewellery were gone, searched everywhere
for some clue to tell him that she would soon re-
turn, but was only rewarded by a conviction that
she had carried herself completely out of his life.
He realised what a place she had filled m it, by
its appearance of voidness when she was no longer
there. “ Gone ! ” he muttered, helplessly.
“Gone! Whom with where how 1
wonder ? To think that—l loved her so much,
too. ...” He read her letter again—then crump-
led it in his hand. “Curse her! All damned
hypocrisy, every word. She never 'loved me
really. As Zillah says, her whole nature was
inilk ! and-water ; too little capable of heat to re-
main warm for any time. She never really loved
me—curse her ! ” He cast the letter, torn to frag-
ments, to the floor, and spurned them as he left
the room ; but, turning at the door, he looked
back on her belongings with scornful eyes.
“Well, this has settled the matter for me, he
decided; “I shall resist no longer.”
After she had left him, Mary had composed two
messages. The first, to Watkins, “Meet you as
you wish,” she sent the servant to the telegraph-
office with, telling her at the same time to order a
cab : but the second she had written after many
unsatisfactory attempts, in agony of mind, with
eyes blinded with tears, and the note was still
unsatisfactory when the cab arrived. However,
she sealed it, and giving it to the servant with
instructions, crept sadly, unwillingly, out of the
house, giving the cabman orders to drive about for
a time, and reach the railway-station at eleven.
As she sat in the cab, thoughts bitter and sweet
crept into her mind, and she wept. Occasionally
she glanced out to see in ti e dim light some
old remembered place, about which every
pleasing recollection was wrapped up in him.
She began to realise what she was leaving ; the
depth of her love for him, the misery that was
greater now than ever ; and she gave a.
little cry of helpless loneliness. How would
this insignificant man, Watkins, compensate
for the great loss she was bringing on herself?
But then the other man did not care for her, and
all her woes were overwhelmed by that great
one. “Why has he ceased to love me,” she
moaned in agony. Why had he ceased
to care for her ? He had once been her
passionate slave, dwelling on her every whim ;
a thousand little self-denying considerations
he had shown her, his great tenderness, the
sweetness of his caresses, and the sense of security
and comfort in his protection came to her mind
with bitter regret. Was she going to cast all these
things away for that comparative insipidity,
Watkins? Might she not plead for.them again?
Surely, her husband could not resist the pleading
of one to whom he had once been glad to plead ;
surely he had some affection for her - , still. A wave
of tenderness swept over her, as she pictured what
Ernest might possibly feel at finding himself
deserted. A sudden impulse to return seized her,
and she called up to the cabby an order to drive
back. She would return and ask Ernest to forgive
her and beg him to love her again with his old
love.
She sprang out, directly the cab reached the
house, and leaving the cabman unpaid, let herself
in with her own key with tremulous hands, and set
out to find her husband. Delightful visions of a
sweet reconciliation had occupied her mind during
the return, but now in all the house there was no
sign of him. Frightened now, she rang the bell
to summon her servant. “ Where’s your
master ? ” she demanded hoarsely.
“ He went out, d’rectly after I’d given him your


YOU CAN PROVE THIS,
Because it Happened Here in Sydney.
A SYDNEY MAN’S ILLNESS, ITS CAUSE AND CURE.
n
r
u
>/
TTr
nc~
firn
\
t/4
j*L
fMt
t /
. It
t///'/////// r
*w.
A
“Is it your old trouble with the Bach and Kidneys?”
It used to be considered that only urinary and bladder
troubles were to be traced to the kidneys, but now modern science
proves that nearly all diseases have their beginning in the
disorder of these most important organs.
The kidneys filter and purify the blood, —that is their work.
So when your kidneys are weak or out of order, you can
understand how quickly your entire body is affected, and how
every organ seems to fail to do its duty.
If you are sick or “ feel badly,” begin taking Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, because as soon as your kidneys are well they
will help all the other organs to health. A trial will convince
anyone.
If the following had occurred somewhere else
than in Sydney, you might believe it, but you
could not prove it, and that makes all the differ-
ence. The reader must have seen many such
statements before, but he took very little notice of
them, because he knew neither the persons men-
tioned nor the towns they were supposed to live in.
But here is the statement of a Sydney man,
spoken for the good of Sydney people, and that
is why we say you can prove this. It has the right
sort of ring to it.
Mr. W. Hibberd, St. Paul’s street, Randwick,
this city, says :—“For years I have been a sufferer
from backache. In my work I have to stoop a
good deal, and prolonged exertion of this kind
would double me up with pain. After stooping I
would be scarcely able to stand up straight again,
but would have to unbend gradually, and get the
kinks out of my .back. I used many sorts of
medicines for this ache, but with poor success.
The doctors I saw were also puzzled, I think.
I procured a box of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-street, and
I am very pleased to tell you that these pills gave
me almost immediate relief. They went right to
the root of my trouble. The pains diminished
after further treatment, and at length totally dis-
appeared. I shall always recommend these pills
for backache trouble.”
Twelve months later Mrs. Hibberd states:—
“It is more than a year ago since my husband
used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for backache.
I am now enabled to say that the pills wrought a
permanent cure in his case. The pains never
returned since. I can speak with conviction of
the marvellous way they acted in his case. He is
very enthusiastic about the pills, and is always
recommending them for such ailments as the pills
are meant for. He had been bad over ten years,
so you can see it was no common remedy that
could cure him in the way Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills did.”
This is only one case, but there are hundreds
more like it, both here and in Victoria, in Queens-
land, South Australia, and West Australia, in
fact, in every town in Australia. The papers in
every town have a fellow-townsman’s statement
every week, very much like Mr. Hibberd’s given
above, telling what this medicine has done for
them.
.Now, there must be some good reason for the
unparalled success of Doan’s Bachache Kidney
Pills in Sydney and N.S.W. generally. What is
that reason ?
In the first place, they are a medicine of great
merit, for Sydney people are praising them every
week in these columns.
In the second place, their whole action is on the
most important organs of the whole body—the
kidneys. In other words, they do one thing, and
do it well.
But why are the kidneys the most important
organs of the body ? Because they filter the blood.
Every drop of the blood goes through the kidneys
many times a day, and it is their duty to filter
out the surplus water and the impurities the blood
has gathered up during its circuit of the body.
These impurities are the cause of yoUr headache,
restlessness, sleeplessness, backache, general de-
bility, rheumatism, gout, urinary disturbances,
pains in the joints and limbs, irregular heart,
stomach troubles, and a thousand and one symp-
toms. Help the kidneys to rid the body of these
impurities, and you can be well. You can be well
m no other way.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
are sold by all chemists and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s, 3d.), or will be posted on
receipt of price by the proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney. 1
Don’t Neglect.
A COMMON CASE OF PILES.
IT MAY LEAD TO SERIOUS RESULTS.
When people generally understand that all such
fatal diseases as fistula, ulcer of the rectum, fissure,
&c., almost invariably begin in a simple case of
piles, they will learn the wisdom of taking proper
treatment for the first appearance of trouble in
this quarter. Doan’s Ointment will certainly
cure every form of piles—itching, bleeding, pro-
truding, and blind piles—and hundred of lives
have been saved by using this cheap aqd effective
remedy right at the start, because at such times a
single pot will effect a cure, while the old, deep-
seated, chronic cases, several pots are sometimes
necessary before a cure is effected. Here is a case
in point:—
Mr. William Gulliver, of the well-known firm
of Gulliver and Curtis, Railway and General Con-
tractors, and whose private address is “Avoca,”
Bankstown, has written the following unsolicited
letter, which we herewith publish in full:—
Messrs. Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Feb. 14, 1899.
Dear Sirs, —In justice to you and suffering
humanity, I write to say that I suffered from itch-
ing piles for 22 years. I tried many doctors, and
pretty well all kinds of patent medicines, but got
relief for a short time only. Seeing your Ointment
advertised, I bought a pot—and did not use more
than one-half of it, now six months ago—and lam
perfectly cured. You may use this as you wish
Yours gratefully, WILLIAM GULLIVER.
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching piles. It will Cure
them absolutely. But do not take the manufac-
turer s word for this ; ask or write Mr. Gulliver
He knows, for it cured him.
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, m hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, by sending us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cine these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to. suffer from Piles
or Eczema for one moment. Doan’s Ointment
will cure therh absolutely, but do not take our
word for it; send a penny stamp for a sample box.
Ihe large size box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes los. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally
from your chemist or storekeeper, same will be
posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention The
Bulletin.
note, ma’am,” replied the astonished maid,
noticing her mistress’s distraught looks with
feelings both of commiseration and curiosity.
“What? Oh, yes; I know—you can go.”
When alone she threw herself on a sofa in an
agony of grief. “Oh, he does not care !—he does
not care ! ” she sobbed. “ Why did I come back ?
—why did I leave him ? I have lost him alto-
gether ! ” Suddenly another idea struck her. He
might now be frantically hunting for her, or, in a
frenzy of distress at losing her, doing himself some
harm. <
She sprang to her feet in distraction, with the
apprehension that instant action was necessary!
Below, the cabman was “barneying” for his
fare, which he thought, by the pecuh.ir behaviour
of the passenger, he had lost.
“Tell the cabman to wait,” she called down,
and returned again to write a note, which she
managed to do after many unsuccessful at-
tempts :
I want you to forgive me. I have come home again ?
Where are you? lam going out again to find you. If
you return before I do, do not leave again. I shall return
shortly.
She placed the note on his table, and entered
the cab <>nce more.
“Where to, madam?” enquired the cabby.
The question puzzled her. “Oh, anywhere.”
Then, becoming aware that that was a rather
peculiar reply—“ To some newspaper-office.”
What had become of him? How should she
find him? She had a dim idea of advertising, but
could not think how. Hurried ideas entered her
mind, but were crowded out by others before they
could mature themselves. The rapidity of her
fearful thoughts seemed to make the speed of the
cab a crawling walk. “ Drive faster ! ” she called
to the cabby ; and, as the man was already driving
very fast, he began to think his pretty passenger a
lunatic.
As they turned into a fashionable, well-lighted
street she saw a sight that filled her with amaze-
ment. It was her husband ; but with him was
a dark, handsome woman, leaning on his arm, and
bending towards him with a snake-like charming-
ness, and they were entering a cab together. The
woman’s look at him was one of passionate affec-
tion, and he seemed to be intoxicated by it. A
sick sensation ran to the wife’s heart, and again
she surprised the cabman by reversing her order.
“ Drive back again, please.”
The man looked down at her.
“ I say, mum, do you—er —do you know wot yer
doing ?”
She hardly heard him, and showed no surprise. .
“Of course I do. Drive back again, please.”
‘ ‘ But excuse me, mum ; there’s nothin’ wrong,
is there ? ”
“ What business is it of yours ? ” she answered,
angrily. “Drive me back at once. Is it your
fare you want? Here’s ten shillings as an ad-
vance. I want you to wait for me again, and you
shall have more. Now drive back—quickly,
please.”
All this while they had been drawn-up with-
in sight of the other cab, and she saw the endear-
ments of the temptress, and what she thought a
look of stupified happiness on his face. She did
not know, of course, that all the time, enchanted
as he undoubtedly was, there was a gnawing
agony at his heart.
“ Queer fare, this un, an’ no mistake ! ” mused
the cabby as he turned his cab.
When they arrived, she went upstairs and tore
up the letter she had written. Then she looked at
her watch, which stood at twenty minutes to
eleven, and descended again.
“ Railway-station,” she said to the cabman, as
she again entered the cab. “ Another ten shil-
lings if you get there by eleven !
He earned the money.
H.M.
Tasmania has been talking about estab-
lishing free education for 18 years past, and the
other day the Assembly again spoke kindly but
vaguely about the old subject. The cost of
abolishing school fees would be £ll,OOO a year, and
Tassy has given more consideration to that sum
than it ever gave to any other £ll,OOO in all its
history.
The large and cautious N.S.W. Premier
alone appears to have forgotten Wise’s well-
remembered declaration at Ashfield, on taking
office, that “ Whatever' this Government does, it
will not accept power without responsibility.”
Nowadays, Lyne will hardly take the commonest
political step without a round-robin from members
of the House, or private assurances of a majority-
support. This may be because the Ministry is
necessarily a stop-gap Ministry until the Federal
election, when we can see who’s who. It is
said that Govt, was on the point of extinction
one recent night, but was saved by the finesse of
Works Minister O’Sullivan, whose occupancy of
the State Cow Department gives him (or any
other similar occupant) tremendous lobbying
power.
Parker, the U.S. gentleman who started
the trading-coupon business in Maoriland, has
addressed a letter of solemn warning to Premier
Seddon. He informs Seddon that if the proposal
to legally abolish his useless little middle-man in-
dustry is carried out, it will do more than any-
thing that has happened in the last ten years to
put the (anti-British) Democratic party into
power at the U.S. elections next Nov., and to
break up the friendship between the Lion and the
Eagle. Which is very sad. Meanwhile the U.S.
law has prohibited the M.L.-owned Union S.S.
Co. from further pursuing its old-established trade
between Honolulu and California. _ This was long
before Seddon threatened to put his feet down on
Parker’s trading-stamp. What are Parker’s views
on that ?
England has just found, with a consider-
able shock to its pocket and its conscience, that
its laws are so fixed that it pays certain authori-
ties to run sane people into asylums, and that they
are so run in wholesale. The explosion came in a
crowded London parish. The Poor-Law relieving
officers are paid ss. for examining alleged lunatics,
and by holding two or three examinations in order
to make quite sure of the suspected person’s state
of mind, each alleged lunatic is generally good for
10s. at least. If this were all the alleged lunatic
would have a fair show, for it would pay as well
to decide that he was sane or otherwise. But in
addition there is a fee of £1 or £2 for trouble in
removing the suspect to the asylum, so a poor or
- friendless person’s chance of being acquitted of
all suspicion of insanity is about nil. The relieving
officer has a tame doctor or two who will certify
to anything—the doctor also gets a fee for examina-
tion, and the doctors who always certify that the
patient is insane get all the business. The expo-
sure seems to have arisen through the rash conduct
of somebody who left a letter about in which a
relieving officer asked a doctor for an advance on
account of his fees for taking lunatics to the
asylum, and promised to be so active in finding
lunatics as to promptly liquidate the debt. He
wanted to hypothecate his prospective madman,
so to speak, and put his deranged person up the
spout.
The Cry of the Land.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
War ! I ain’t taking no war—l’m turning my
fields for wheat,
An’ I want no deaths at all—let there be more to
eat.
1 uree hundred acres in seed, and another hundred
to sow ;
An it’s slow with a double furrow—not much fas-
ter than with a hoe ;
In time I’ll have thousands of acres all gold with
the wheaten gleam,
An’ I’ll keep my horses to look at, an’ my ploughs
shall work by steam ;
I’ll have near a dozen furrows scored where now
the score is two,
An’ I’ll lose that darned near-sider—blast yer !
what d’yer want to do ?
A waster that horse is all over, in heart and in
blood and bone—
Does some sort of work, I grant you, but never the
work that’s his own ;
Loafing until you curse him, and then with a jerk
he’s away—
An’ steady’s the way for the ploughing—it’s steady
that goes all the day.
Near-sider reminds me of Simpson, who’s got the
land next me—
Always doing the easy thing—he’d plough like hell
at sea—
Sort o’ man wlio’d scamp a furrow, because that’s
easy done,
With the coulter doing half its work, and the
mudboard free to the sun.
Yes ! he went to the war—tired o’ the farm he
said—
He’d rather eat in Africa than grow Australian
bread ;
An’ worse, he took two with him—men who were
thorough and white—
But they wanted a change to a big brass band
and the gleam of something bright.
And they’ve left the land all hungry, and waiting
for the seed —
Lord ! if we all were wasters —what ’ud become o’
the breed?
Look at the land I’m helping to make—gracious
and clean and sweet,
And a track through the Goulburn valley in
eighty miles of wheat.
Only four million here—and Australia can carry
two score —
But it can’t afford to lose what it’s got, and it
ought to send for more.
Three thousand miles by three thousand—full of
wheat and cattle and gold—
Waiting the hand of the white man to multiply
fold on fold.
A patriot loves his country, and they show it by
goin’ away,
An’ with stuttering songs about Britain—an’ I
garner or cut for hay.
But Simpson was always a waster —never mended
his half of the fence,
Never grew any greens for his table—the man
never had no sense.
Bought a reaper-and-binder last season (and three
parts of the bill was owed)
And left the machine to the weather by his fence
on the Seymour Road.
Bought a swell buggy turnout, but never provided
a shed;
And his fowls used the trap for roosting, and the
cushions he used for a bed.
Waster was Simpson all over (though he’ll pay the
Boers their due),
But I damn the day when the wasters take the
thorough white men too.
We’ve made a many mistakes (we were led by Old
World men)
But the growth we made in a century has taken
the Old World ten.
Australia’s the heir of the ages and the heir of all
that’s new —
We’ve learned by the wrecks of nations that the
sands of history strew.
Here’s Victoria sixty years old, and chequered
with roads and rails ;
And a loco flying the mallee through, bearing the
mallee mails.
There’s fields of wheat in the place the maps
called ‘ desert ’ in eighty-three ;
And trains of waggons topped with grain hot-foot
for the open sea.
There’s butter cows on the bluestone plains where
never a goat could thrive,
And there’s fifty head milling the low-grade reefs
we scorned in ’fifty-five.
But one of the wrongs we did ourselves was when
we centralised
With a swollen city of agents (the worst crime
ever devised),
With half the Victorian people wasting in Mel-
bourne streets,
Choosing not the crust of their making, but the
shoddy-man’s broken meats;
And worse than this is Australia’s part in a war
that isn’t her own,
And a harvest of soldierly sham she’ll reap for the
error she has sown.
The hunters of titles, the cable-liars, and the daily
papers’ toys,
And the rotten rhymes have made the sheep-like
people debauched with noise. •
A stick with some printed calico, and a beery
cheer, and a band,
For this we are selling our freedom—making a
shame of the land.
Would I fight for .Australia ? My oath—l’d give
my arm or my life
For the country my kids were born in—for the
country that bred my wife ;
But I’m not taking death for an Empire—for an
Empire breaks of its weight—
And even a dozen Napoleons couldn’t carry such
bulky freight.
And I’m not off to a foreign war at the first tuft-
hunter’s bleat;
You sing your patriotic songs—and Vll go on
raising my wheat.”
v.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The British “destroyer” Viper, recently
referred to in Bulletin' as having done her mile
at the rate of 43 miles per hour, has a displace-
ment of but 380 tons, yet, in getting her turbine-
engines up to 1170 per minute nearly 12,000 h.p.
was developed—almost as much as is required to
drive the 10,500 ton Friedrich der Grosse at a speed
of about 15 kilometres per hour. Melbourne to
Geelong in 45 minutes would make Vie. railway
officials sit up and thank Heaven that the Gar-
den-state is not honeycombed with navigable
rivers.


Was Very Weak
Lost Flesh Rapidly,
Took Quantities of Medicine, Failed all the Time.
Was Quickly Cured with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“Some time ago I had a very severe attack of influenza which left me
greatly weakened. I lost flesh rapidly and was in a very bad way.
“ I took quantities of medicine, but constantly grew worse all the tihie.
Finally, I tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and began to improve from the start.
“I took about six bottles and was perfectly cured. I have used this remedy,
in my family a great deal and I know it to be a thoroughly reliable health-'
giving compound and family medicine.”
John Murrell, Railway Station Master, of Sunnybank, Queensland, sends us
this letter together with his photograph, which we reproduce above.
i This is a strong letter, one which must remove all doubt. It is additional
proof that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is ' , ' .
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
You ought to profit by it greatly, for if you are weak, have lost flesh, are with-
out appetite, and feel languid and depressed, here is a quick and certain cure.
Perhaps the trouble is with your blood and you are suffering from headache,
boils, eruptions of the skin, scrofula, and rheumatism; or if you are suffering
from weakness of any kind, here is a prompt and most perfect cure.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Removes 111 Effects of Hot Weather.
AYER*S PILLS—A a Vegetable Laxative for the Whole Family.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOE
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hall.
Sold in bottles, at Is. 1 §d., 2s. 9 d., 4s. 6d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, A Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Honses.
COPTEIGHT.
EyesSßighf!
\ ; ■
Head Right!
Stomach Right!
All’s Right!
WITH THOSE WHO TAKE
M'S
FILLS.
Over
6,
Sold Yearly
' f
■ i i
2/9 each.
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Gore
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DSFD
DINNffORDS
MAGNESIA
A
Sold Throughout the Wond.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
DSF
Mm
nf/truue
m.
I Sen-Sen ia \
iORRIHGDON .wttuit
r LONDON.
;to
SINGERS X SPEAKERS
&![
fet
g T °'V- s
IRISH MOSS
FOR
Ask for Borin 1 ng ton’s
and see that you get it.
The best reraedy-
INFLUEN2A,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.


GEORGE STREEI
SYDNEY.
bO|M
d. Foot
sd. Foot
6d. Foot
7|d. Foot
9d. Foot
3SOH NIQHV
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINE EI *S,
MANUFACTURERS
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street. Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building. Adelaide.
the WORTHINGTON
....IS THE ORIGINAL ... .
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarerife Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TANCYES’
DUPLEX
PUMPS
Are the Latest and Best. •
II
Sole Representatives in Austraiia
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED . .
iennia, Teare & Co.
Mining and Engineering
Furnishers.
STOCKS CARRIED
sypNcy
MELBOURNE
PERTH
COOLfinRPIE.
60
YEARS BYEIIG
, FOR THE RADIES.
w. c. Ei.D'p.ir'nTii & co..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 Y.Oltii t\ SYDNH Vf
(o|>p. Centenary Hall).
Count ry Orders by yoe>t irom all the colonies pro irij lly
attended to.
UTS’
rfiorge
net-
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E PPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST- SUPPER.
:r-
PASTEURISED
The same remarks that a'pplv to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the V6ry finest
cream, consequently the butter has tine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price, between Pasteurised-, beautiflllly-fiavored blitter and the
ordinary make is only 4fL per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that tlieir grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send yOlir orders to US, and we will
Good butter such as we have, described is appreciated always, whereas at .ah or noon teas or for ordinary use b
at any price. The, famous “Berry "brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this .Company.
deliver it at your doors.
H. PATESON",
Harbor
COMPRESSORS,
DSF
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in A ustralia of
ROCK
DRILLS
“ New ingersoll.”
NG
PARKE & LACY C°! L T .?
S'ST3Z»KT3E3'Sr, 3XT.S.^T.
Blake Steam Pumps
b&.l
%*>
v~.:t sua-nSSKfiiB-^^SSSOiB
“DUPLEX”
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
EST IMA T ES given for
Cotnplete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN * SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS
FREEMAN'S
i^Vv
ON
Z
*o-
m
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE :
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
i*#- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
11 O L 1.0 VV AY 'p PILLS AND OINTMENT.
R There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of suiferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity t heir beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for th“ir use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFEII, TRY PI IBM. Manu-
factured only at 7S Nkw Oxford-st., Isr.idon. i*r Pur-
i Lasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 6523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
RCKHESTCR LoD<s€
coiiins piaoe East, Melbourne.
Private Boarding Establishment
Most Central and Healthy Position i» the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Totrs H#B.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Terms Modeatre-
Mrs. M‘CLELLAH» t
Proprietrear
