

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC
Reid s London Draught Stout.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
*
Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet .
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
/ 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
_ ■ - FOR—
Mnpng and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ĥ
INSIDE BEARINGS.
Axle part round and sqca
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° „ K „ Btrert> SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Samuel Osborn & Co., Sheffield, makers of Mushet’s Titanic Borer Steel for Miners’ Drills, Bessemer Steel, Cast Steel, Mushet's
Self-Hardening: Steel, Mining:, Well-Boring', Spring, and Tyre Steel, s£eel Castings of all Descriptions, Steel Truck Wheels and Axles.
INDENTS EXECUTED, SPECIFICATIONS SUPPLIED FOR ALL KINDS OF MACHINERY.
CASTINGS, HAMMERS, FILES.^^-
jgOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS,
W l M POLK'S GEORGE HOTEL, oppositeSfc.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams, tamest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF lor
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
THORNE’S
That’s All!
A 1 WHISHT.
SANDEMAITS
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
ħ
h
i
Mali
ĥ
HOBART.
(jadleg’s Orient fiote!.
Watch Repairs by Post
SP
WATCHES Thoroughly Cleaned, 2s. 6d. ; best English
Mainspring, 2s. 6d. All work guaranteed 12 months.
No overcharges. Best workmanship.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Watches. Guaran-
teed three years. 15s. 6d.
Gent’s Silver Double-cased Keyless Lever Watches.
Guaranteed five years. 255.
Ladies’ Gold Keyless 'Watches. Guaranteed five years.
355. Double-cased, £2 15s.
Spectacles to suit all sights. Send for catalogue.
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George-st. (Brickfield Hill),
SYDNEY.
D. S. MAIR,
Ciffl,
co
AMUSEMENT for OZD and TOUNO. W
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondike Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (oon be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (yives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
inst ructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 3s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manasrer.
(Mention this paper when writing.
PIONEER
LEATHER
iSjPBELTiNC
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Used exclusively by the Govts, of N. 3. Wales, Tasmania,
and Queensland.
Made by
J. C. LODOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York-street, SYDNEY.
Branches:—P. Frankel & VJ>., Edward-st., Brisbane, Q. ;
H. Summers, Barraclc-st., Perth, W.A. ; H. K. Fj'sh and
Co., Collins-st., Hobart, Tas.; E. Porter & Co., Auckland ;
Blackburne & Smith, Casffidl.st., Christchurch, N.Z.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICK Is. ... per Post Is. 3d. »
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/0.
» ABBOTT FILTER
»™ Absolutely Pure Water.
ABBOTT FILTER COY., 33 William-street, Melbourne.
N. GUTHEIDGE LTD., Agents, 71 Clarence-street, Sydney ; Fremantle, and Kalgoorlie.
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
ħ
HICHLAND
CREAM
h
IS GOOD AND PUEE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : I’LUMMER, LOVE, and 00., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE G-BYE-A-T - . .
CASCADE ALE
IS HEBE TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N,S.\V. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CQ., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. _____
BY ROYAL WARRANT.
Joshua’s BOOMEBANC BRANDY
JOSHUA BROS, have been authorised to
SUPPLY BOOMERANG BRANDY
to the Cellars of H.M. the Queen, the Prince of Wales, and the Duke of York.
Henry Skinner,
Olararidon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Publie and
Private Balls
n Most
sonabl
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
o-f various sizes supplied.
PHOTOS
From Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Chic; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and MinatureS, 3s, ss, 10s ( 20s.
Money Order or Cheque.
A
ENGLISH, FRENCH, GERMAN
and SPANISH RARE BOOHS.
R. GENNERT,
89c FAUBOURG ST., MARTIN, PARIS, FRANCE.
it
The Last of Six ”:
Tales of the
Ernest Faveno.
post free.
Austral Tropios. By
Paper covers, 141 pp. ; fid.
The Bulletin
Vol 21.—N0. 1083
[Saturday, November 17, 1900.
Fey'sfered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a TVTpwsnaner.


Now Ready,
By ALBERT DORRINGTON
Castro’s Last Sacrament
, 4s. 6d. post free.
Also,
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets,'
A ROSE OF RE6RET.
Yekses by James Hebblethwaite.
In Envelope; price, Is. 9d. post-free.
Note. —Only 500 copies are printed for sale.
No. lof these booklets is out of print. To be
included in the same series are Louise Mack’s and
Hubert Church’s verses, and others.
The Bulletin newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Stdnby, Australia.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
ind the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous druff . . .
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, In Tins, Is 6d ; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE RED PAGE.
The Wisdom of Nietzsche .
OF BEADING AND WKITING.
OF all that is written I love only that which
the writer wrote with his blood. Write
with blood and thou wilt learn that blood
is spirit.
It is not easily possible to understand other
people’s blood. I hate the reading idlers.
He who knoweth the reader doth nothing more
for the reader. Another century of readers—and
spirit itself will stink.
That everybody is allowed to learn to read
spoileth in the long run not only writing, but
thinking.
Once spirit was God, then it became man, and
now it is becoming mob.
The air rarefied and pure, danger near, and the
spirit full of gay wickedness: these agree well
together.
Brave, unconcerned, scornful, violent—thus
wisdom would have us to be : she is a woman, and
ever loveth the warrior only.
To my thinking, as a lover of life, butterflies,
soap-bubbles, and whatever is of their kind among
men, know most of happiness.
To see these, light, foolish, delicate, mobile
little souls flitting about—that moveth Zarathu-
stra to tears and to song.
I could believe only in a God who would know
how to dance.
And when I saw my devil, I found him earnest,
thorough, deep, solemn: he was the spirit of
gravity—through him all things fall.
Not through wrath, but through laughter one
slayeth. Arise ! let us slay the spirit of gravity.
I learned to walk: now I let myself run. I
learned to fly: now I need no pushing to move
from the spot.
Now I am light, now I fly, now I see myself
beneath myself, now a God danceth through me.
OF CHASTITY.
Is it not better to fall into the hands of a mur-
derer than into the dreams of a lustful woman ?
And look at these men: their eye saitli it—
they know of nothing better on earth than to lie
by a woman’s side.
Mud is at the bottom of their soul; alas ! if
there is spirit in their mud.
Do I counsel you to slay your senses ? I counsel
the innocence of the senses.
Do I counsel chastity? Chastity is a virtue
with some, but with most almost a vice.
True, these abstain: but the she-dog of sen-
suality looketh with envy out of all they do.
This beast and its no-peace followeth them even
unto the heights of their virtues and into their
cold spirit.
This other parable I speak unto you : not a few
who sought to drive out their devil, went them-
selves into the swine.
He unto whom chastity is hard is to be coun-
selled against it: in order that it may not become
the way unto hell— i.e., to mud and to concupis-
cence of the soul.
Speak lof dirty things ? That is not the worst
for me.
Not when truth is dirty, but when it is shallow
doth he who perceiveth dislike to step into its
water.
OF FREE DEATH.
Even the superfluous put on airs about their
dying, and even the hollowest nut wisheth to be
cracked. -
Everyone taketh dying seriously, and death is
not a festival. Not yet have men learnt how the
finest festivals are consecrated.,
The achieving one dieth his death victorious,
surrounded by hopeful ones and such as pledge
themselves.
To die thus is the best; the second is, however,
to die in the battle and spend a great soul.
And when shall I will ? He who hath a goal
and an heir wisheth death to come at the right
time for goal and heir.
And out of reverence for goal and heir he will
hang up no more withered wreaths in the sanc-
tuary of life.
.Indeed, I would not be like the ropemakers,
They draw out their cord longer and longer,
going ever backwards themselves.
Many a one besides waxeth too old for his
truths and victories, a toothless mouth having no
longer a right unto every truth.
And whoever wisheth fame must in time say
farewell unto honour, and exercise the difficult art
of departing at the right time.
One must cease to be eaten, when one tasteth
best; they who would be loved know that.
There are sour apples
whose lot it is to wait till
the last day of Autumn.
At the same time they
wax ripe and yellow and
•yyrinkled.
Unto many life is a
failure, a poisonous worm
eating through unto their
heart. These ought to see
to it that succeed better in
dying.
Many never grow sweet,
but putrefy even in sum-
mer. It is cowardice that
maketli them stick unto
their branch.
Much-too-many live, and
much-too-long they stick
unto their branches. Would
that storm came to shake
from the tree all that is
putrid and gnawed by
worms !
Would that preachers of
swift death come ! They
would be the proper storms
to shake the trees of life !
But I hear only slow death
preached and patience with
all that is “earthly.”
OF THE FLIES OF THE
MARKET.
The folk little under-
stand what is great, i.e.,
what createth. But they
have eyes and ears for all
showmen and actors of
great things.
The world revolveth
round the inventors of new
values—invisibly it revol-
veth. But the folk and
glory revolve round actors.
Such is life.
To overthrow that
meaneth for him : to prove.
To drive mad—that mean-
eth for him : to convince.
And for him blood is the
best of all reasons.
A truth which slippeth
only into sharp ears he calleth a lie and nothing.
Verily, he believeth only in Gods that make a
great noise in the world !
All deep wells get their experience slowly : they
have to wait before they know what hath fallen to
the bottom of thsm.
Fly, my friend, ipto thy loneliness : I see thee
stung all over by poisonous flies. Fly where the
rough, strong wind bloweth !
Lift no more thine arms against them! In-
numerable are they; neither is it thy lot to be a
ny-brush.
Innumerable are these small and miserable
ones.; and rpany a proud building the raindrops
and weeds have destroyed.
Fhou art not a stone, but already thou has!; been
hollowed out by many drops. IJnder the many
drops thou wilt break into pieces and burst
asunder.
I see thee wearied by poisonous flies and blood
drawn at a hundred spots ; and thy pride will not
even be angry.
In all innocence they seek to draw blood from
thee, their bloodless souls crave for blood—and
therefore in all innocence they sting.
But thou deep one, thou sufferest too greatly,
even from small wounds ; and ere thou art healed,
the same poisonous worm creepeth over thy hand.
Thou art, I know, too proud to kill these dainty--
mouthed. But take care that it be not thy fate to
endure all their poisonous wrong.
They also hum round thee with their praise:
their praise is impudence. They seek to have
nigh unto them thy skin and thy blood.
They flatter thee like a God or devil; they
whimper'before thee as before a God or devil.
What matter? Flatterers they are and whim-
perers, that is all.
They also frequently present themselves unto
thee as amiable. But that hath ever been the
prudence of cowards. Ay, cowards are prudent.
They think much about thee with their narrow
souls, thou art ever suspected of them ! What-
ever is much reflected upon becometh suspected.
They punish thee for all thy virtues. From the
heart of their heart they only pardon thee —thy
mistakes.
Because thou art tender and of a just mind, thou
sayest: “ Their small existence is not their fault! ”
But their narrow soul thinketh : “Guilty is all
great existence.”
Even if thou art tender unto them they think
that thou despisest them ; and they return thy
benefits with secret harms.
Thy unspoken pride is ever against their taste ;
they exult when once thou art modest enough to
be idle.
Whatever we recognise in a man, we inflame in
him. Therefore beware of the small.
Ay, my friend, thou art the bad conscience for
thy neighbours; for they are unworthy of thee.
That is why they hate thee and would fain suck
thy blood.
Thy neighbours will always be poisonous flies.
That which is great in thee —that itself must make
them still more poisonous and ever more like fiies.
Fly, my friend, into thy loneliness and where
the rough, strong wind bloweth. It is not thy lot
to be a fly -brush.
Kippered Verse with Local Sauce.
“ What I like about Kipling,” said Mr. Dooley,
is that his ponies is right off th’ bat. . . . He’s a minyit-
man, a r-ready pote that sleeps like th’ driver iv thruck
9, with his poetic pants in his boots beside his bed, an’
him r-ready to jump out an’ slide down th’ pole th’ minyit
th’ alarm sounds. ... He’s prisident iv th’ Pome Supply
Company,-fr-resh pothry delivered ivry day at ye’er
dure. Is there an accident in a grain illyvator ? Ye pick
up j-e’er mornin’ pa*aper, an’ they’se a pome about it be
Roodyard Kipling.., Do ye hear iv a manhole cover bein
blown up? Roodyard is there with his r-ready pen.
“ ’T is written iv Cashum-Cadi an’ th’book iy th’gr-reat
Gazelle that a manhole cover in anger is tin degrees worse
thin hell.” He writes in all dialects an’anny language,
plain an’ fancy pothry, pothry f’r young an’ old, pothry
be weight or linyar measuremint, pothry f’r small parties
iv eight or tin a speciality. ... No col’ storage pothry
f’r Kipling. Ivrything fr-resh an’ up to date. All lays
laid this mornin’.
And when the Australian Commonwealth came
along, Kipling baked overnight and delivered his
hot batch of verses for the breakfast-table. “A
splendid poem, ” they cabled. And now we have
“ the poem,” which is no poem, but a piece of de-
cent verse by a tired artificer who can’t make his
joints as close as he used to. Everybody who
knows anything about poetry knows that “The
Young Queen ” is the familiar Kipling fake, with
the local allusion, and tile catchy metaphor, and
the clean phrase all complete; but less well com-
FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE.
From the statuette by Kramer.
pounded than the younger Kipling compounded
them. What “the Five Free Nations” are
nobody knows but Kipling. If they are the Aus-
tralian States, Tasmania wants to qome in as sixth.
If they are England, Scotland, Ireland, Wales,
and Man, why do these, claim “the Jive-starred
Cross ” as their “ sign ” ? It’s a mystery—possibly
an advertising mystery deliberately plotted by
artful Rudyard, up to all the tricks. And; it
would not be worth bothering about did not some
people actually accept “The Young Queen” at
the cabler’s valuation of “ a splendid poem.” The
S.M. Herald , which purveys reasonably-good
book-reviews—if there were more of them—usually
satisfies its personal yearnings to literature with a
Saturday leader drawn from an English magazine-
article ; but on this occasion it falls beyond itself.
Witness a leaderette on “Mr. Kipling’s New
Poem ” ■
At the beginning of October our cablegrams informed
us that Mr. Rudyard Kipling had contributed to the
Times a noble poem on the birth of the Australian Com-
monwealth. Now that the verses are before us there is
ample evidence of the truth of the description given.
The poet has furnished a fresh proof of his fitness to bear
the title Poet of the Empire, for he has voiced the senti-
ments of the people of the motherland and those of her
sons and daughters in distant parts. While in this colony
we have been discussing the question of voting a sum of
money for a national ode, Kipling has entered the lists
and given us one of his brightest efforts. . . . In “The Young
Queen ” with beautiful imagery he sketches the crowning
of the child State by the parent State, and expresses in
thrilling verse the loyal and tender attitude both of her
who gives and her who receives. The supreme gift of the
Old Queen to the Young Queen —“ I give -thee thy
people’s love is the culminating effect in Mr. Kipling’s
inspiring poem, and by this latest product of his genius
the Empire is placed under a further debt of gratitude to
him ! In our forthcoming Commonwealth celebrations
this poem will doubtless be given the prominence it de-
serves, and if fittingly set to music might be sung with
effect by the massed choir's which it is understood are to
assist in the musical part of the programme.
The Herald has evidently no idea that there are
half-a-dozen writers in Australia far better entitled
to the name of poet than ever Kipling was. Unless
m a low sense, Kipling is-no poet at all. He is a
dexterous verse-workman : and at his best, by
dint of pains, talent and energy, he almost reaches
the effect of poetry. Never quite; for he has not
the poet’s temperament, and, as well he
knows, he can only simulate the poet’s results.
The very notoriety which he has' attained
as a versifier of contemporary events is
proof that his be-puffed reputation will die
with him. And it is certain that nobody
with any conception of the beauty and mystery
which is the essence of poetry—which bring it
into relation with eternal things—would ever
dream of calling Kipling’s last-cooked verses
“beautiful,” “ thrilling,” or “inspiring.” As for
using the Kipling mixture at Commonwealth cele-
brations, it is time the Herald, as an Australian
newspaper, set itself to encourage Australians to
rely upon their own strength instead of leaning
on foreign crutches. To be sure, the idea of giving
a Govt, prize for a local patriotic poem has little
to recommend it. If the occasion does not stimulate
the poet, a prize will not. Yet poets must live,
and in Australia they live hardly enough. The
community which claims their labour surely owes
them bread-and-cheese. Let the wealthy S.M.
Herald proprietary, instead of Spattering Kipling
with unearned praise, offer fifty pounds for a local
ode to commemorate the Commonwealth founda-
tion. That would pay as a business speculation ;
and the Herald would certainly receive, in a mass
of rubbish,_ some poetry worth twenty times as
much as Kipling’s hackneyed box of tricks.
“ Never the time and place and the loved one
all together,” wrote Browning. What is the
ideal all-together ? At what time, in what place,
with whom (him or her), did you or could you
realise that ideal ! Deck the ideal in language
delicate or fiery, and send not more than 200
words before Dec. 1. A hint (not a direction)
from Coventry Patmore—
Not in the crisis of events,
Of compass’d hopes, or fears fulfill’d,
Or acts of gravest consequence,
Are life's delight and depth reveal’d.
The day of days was not the day ;
That went before, or was postponed ;
The night Death took our lamp away
Was not the night on which we groan’d.
I drew my bride, beneath the moon,
Across my threshold ; happy hour !
But, ah, the walk that afternoon
We saw the water-flags in flower !
In crib-time. “There has been too much poetry in
'The Bulletin lately.”—“Not half enough. Good poetry’s
the best of reading. My wife writes poetry for The Bul-
letin.”—“ What! I never knew that. Does she write
under a nom-de-plume “No blanky fear ; she writes
under my bough shed.”
_ Vixen : In the loan collection of the Librarians’ Asso-
ciation Conference at Adelaide was a signed photo, of
Paul Verlaine, inscribed “To my dear Esther.” What
the ladies at the conference wanted to know was, How
did it come into the possession of the University Professor
who exhibited it ? Hey ? ?
Butcha: I am a Maorilander; and during a year’s
sojourn in Q’sland have been greatly struck with the way
in which the Q. girl shows the upper gum when she
smiles. The M.L. maiden, as a rule, shows only teeth.
Searching for a physiological reason, I guess that the
fierce Q. sunlight is very trying to the eyes, and one in-
stinctively contracts the facial muscles near the eyes in
order to avoid the glare and to see better. This, of
course, affects the rest of the face, and causes a slight lift .
in the upper lip. Year afte/ year spent in Q. climate
might thus tend to permanently shorten the upper lip,
and —— [Stop there ! —Ed.]
Topic of Nietzsche reminds that Glasgow Uni-
versity’s German professor, Dr. Tille, who edited
the Eng. translation of some of N’s books, was
mobbed by bis students for daring to reflect upon
British conduct in the Transvaal; and resigned his
post. “ British fair play ” and “ free speech ” are
strictly reserved for Britons, you see; or for
foreigners who extol Britain. And doubtless those
Glasgow students included descendants of the men
on whose behalf Burns inveighed against “Edward,
chains and slavery'! ” Earth’s'quaint whirligig !
Some studies for “Boccaccio,” by James
Linton, reproduced in Sept. Studio, give oppor-
tunity to say how much more life and reality there
is in Norman. Lindsay’s splendid illustrations of
the same author, to be seen at Sydney Society of
Artists’ rooms.•
With what cynical tongue in what solemn cheek
must Louis Becke publish “ Tom Wallis,” a boys’
story, with Eng. Religious Tract Society ! The
pirate turned" Puritan ! And Becke “knew a
ih-m-missionary onqe . . . ”
“ It is Socialism which will for the first time
invest the proletariat, now disinherited, with the
sacred beauty of Art.”—Dictum from “Art and
Socialism ; an Oration by Jean Jaures,” published
by the International Socialist Club, 74 York-st.,
Sydney. Then the orator went on to talk about
. . . Coppbe, like a yellow taper . . . (Interruption; the
person who has previously given vent to adverse senti-
ments is violently ejected and the whole hall re-echoes
with loud and ringing applause.)
The Citizen Anatole France (presiding) : Citizens, show
by your calmness that you are in the right. (Applause.)
This was on 13th April last, at a Paris “confer-
ence of literary men and artists.” Do Socialists
ever walk round themselves and laugh ?
French reviews note the death in August of
Albert Samain, one of the newer verse - writers
and not the least worthy. A sonnet which he
printed two years ago—
Lentement, doucement, de peur qu’elle se brise,
Prendre une ame ; 6coliter ses plus secrets aveux,
En silence, comme on caresse des cheveux ;
Atteindre a la douceur fluide de la brise ;
Dans l’omb're, un soir d’orage, oh la chair s’blectrise,
Promener des doigts d’or sur le clavier nerveux ;
Baisser I 'eclat des voix : calmer I’ardeur des feux ;
Exalter la couleur rose a la couleur grise.
Essayer des accords de mots mysterieux
Doux comme le baiser de la paupifere aux yeux ;
Faire ondoyer des chairs d’or pale dans des brumes,
Et, dans l’ame que gonfle un immense soupir,
Laisser, en s’allant, comme le souvenir
D’un grand cygne de neige aux longues, longues plumes.
“ Wooli ” contends—
“ Puvyaka ” says (Oct. 20) that of the two word-memory
centres the auditory is the older and better educated ;
that on a word being called-up by the mind, you listen
for it, and “ your lips and tongue automatically endeavour
to perform the associated muscular movements neces-
sary for their pronunciation ; and, in the action,
seons-long of listening, speaking ancestors outweigh
the few poor thousand years of visual writers.” Is
it not more probable that the greater alertness of the
auditory and speaking centres, as compared with those
which govern reading and writing, may be due, not so
much to heredity, as to the earlier and more continuous
use of the former by every individual ? The child hears
and speaks long before it can read or write. Thus its
auditory and speaking centres acquire a development to
which the reading and writing centres can never attain,
giving the former permanent predominance. Then, in
later life, even those whose avocations demand most con-
tinuous use of the reading and writing faculties never—
save perhaps in very rare oases—use them as much as they
use hearing and speech. So that I venture to say the in-
fluence t>f heredity is much less than that of individual
training.
To correspondents.—B. : Did we say technical works
should not be included ? Why don’t you read your brief?
But you ’ll never persuade us that the Rookwo’od canary-
breeder should be catered for at the public expense....
F.O.J. : The line is Tennyson’s, in “ The Brook ’’ —
“. . . Katie walks
By the long wash of Australasian seas
Far off, and holds her head to other stars,
And breathes in April—Autumns. ...”
....L. : Thanks, but it’s so long since subject that we
guess we’ll drop it P.J.M.: Don’t know who wrote
those ordinary lines, and don’t care.... Versions of “ Der
Reiche Mann ” (Oct. 20) from M.G. ; 0.W.; E.T. ; AS. ;
and the best (slightly altered) from H.W.—
It was meant to say that The Monthly Magazine
is weighty and half-a-crown, and its motto is
“A little of everything and nothing very good.”
The illustrations to “Art before Giotto” are
worth having, and the commentary by Roger E.
Fry. Afghanistan’s Ameer exposes himself
funnily. John Murray publishes.
One of Kant’s recently-published letters says
“ The Critique of Pure Reason ” was written down
in four or five months, after the book had been
thought out for twelve years—K. fearing lest old
age should overtake him with the task uncom-
pleted.
Four columns of an American short story come
to this point: “ What is better than a University
training?” “ The Universal /”'
THE RICH MAN.
A wealthy man am I, possessing .
The gift divine, the .priceless.blessing—
Content to call but little mine :
Some friends, a conscience lightly laden,
And kisses from a willing maiden,
And every day a flask of wine.
H. W., after Goethe.


tasn. mi sajivsaoxrx
W. JNO. BAKER’S
• Standard Sheffield Razors
Are made by the pick of the Skilled Razor Forgers
and Grinders of SHEFFIELD. Every Razor is Tested and Set
Ready for Use by my Cutters before despatch.
THEY RECOMMEND THEMSELVES.
Two of my STANDARD Hollow-Ground Razors, with Ivory Handles in
Handsome Silk and Velvet-Lined Case, 21 /- per Case, post free.
;■ inch wide, 5/- each, Post Free.
I:: :: &::
W- JNO. BAKER, Cutler, 3 Hunter St., Sydney.
WOOL. WOOL. WOOL
Winchcombe, Carson & Co. Ltd.
Selling Agents on I"
Reduced Wool
Commission
21
per cent.
on all lots.
Large or Small.
WRITE AND CONSULT THEM ABOUT SALE OF YOUR PRESENT CLIP.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Co-operative Wool & Produce Co. Limited
Offices: 12 and 14 O’CONNELL STREET. Stores: PYRMONT.
Sole Charge : 3 Per Cent, -fco tire arowers.
BONUS | PER CENT, to SELLING CLIENTS last Two Seasons.
We are the Only Selling Brokers who do not Charge \d. per lb. to the Buyers.
C B B
Mi-:
sa (jo
I
s Jo 3
KliyLIMiS
4A M 5607
58oa
'•yM
oor lo or boro.
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
. application. Thousands Selling Daily.
BRIAR
PIICK SIMMOiiS
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
m~ THIS IS THE LATEST TYPE !
GRAMOPHONE-or
ZONOPHONE!
ĥ
NOM€ OUTFIT
1 Gramophone,
24 Selected Records,
209 Needles
FOR
Carriage Free to any Rail Station or Port.
All Talking- Machines, Records, &c., on Sale.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe St., Sydney (Nearly opposite G-.P.0.)
W. 'T. N. Oldershaw, Manager.
Publications.
LADIES.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET %SS
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
ħ
h
ĥ
Rare Books and . .
Books for the Married
Extra Special
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
WILL ANDRADE,
*2Ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOP/EDIA.
If nature lias not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can—the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other tilings heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters, and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bits in prose and poetry
tint you can find daily use for. 2s. fid. (stamps 2d. extra) will
bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally hap-
piness with one you love. A noeo-American Pcumshino Co.,
Waterloo Chambers, 158 George-st„ Sydney, N.S.AV. Mention
tills paper when writing.
ħ
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKGN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
4/v
MEMORY,
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
.Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
42 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
Extracts from Letters.
J. T. GRESTY, Esq., Prof. Mus., Syd.—“ It has increased
my natural memory for music to a remarkable degree. To
musical students it will be a great boon, and a sure
stepping-stone to success.”
Mr. 0. T. DAVIS, Dunedin, N.Z.—“lt has greatly
strengthened my natural memory, and given me the
power to readily connect and to lastingly memorise the
most abstruse, disconnected and uninteresting matter-
making study easy and delightful.”
STEPHEN. R. MILLER, Esq., Sydney.—“ Your rules
are perfectly natural, and tend as much to improve an
ordinary memory as to cure a bad one. In my position
as Chief Clerk of the Statistical branch of the Ry. Dept. I
have great scope for memory. Your system has been of
very great service to me.”
w
1 11 Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache Producer
ICAPILLARINE.’.
Posted (under cover)
► to any part of Austra
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS:
Ike Result.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680-682 George-street, Sydney.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Hf!ort*Co
LIMITED.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Conning Wool Season :
23
o
o
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
“ New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise ils
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :
COMMISSION S Per Cent.
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the. charge will be ... ... ... ... ... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of hXarsupial Skins Held. Weekly.
“UAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADIHG DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
f EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
OCdMtd
STOCDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, George St., Sydney.
GOOD HAIR FOR
All Chemists.
Holland s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. *lf your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ' Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
SS" For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For RESTORING GREY PIAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
ALL !
*55
CA>
Washington H. Soul & Co.
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE
VVhen
writing
please
mention
Tiif.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness,Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and t
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and (
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have oured thousands. I
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from _.. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—*
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney


TATTERSALL’S.
Aaaress: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Nov. 28.
SANDHURST 0.
100,000 Subscribers at 5
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me
above.
Name
Address
shares in the
£
Newcastle C. Dec. 15.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
in the above.
shares
Name
Address
SUMMER 0. Dec. 26.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _ shares in the
above.
Name_ ,
Address
CARRINGTON S. Dec. 29.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me _ shares in above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
BsSt Prices-
iVIODERPT
MILLING MACHINERY.
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
l /*EDIC^IA\EN
'^INPIOEJTIOM
JVerVov/5
Meadache
“Man’s
Strength
and
Woman’s
Beauty.”
Before and since
the days of Samson
this is what has
been said of every
luxuriant growth
of hair.
NftTlD
GIFTS
mn
HMr
visor
preserves and
beautifies the
hair, giving
it length,
strength, and
luster.
It restores
the natural
color to the
hair in every
instance.
It cleanses the scalp from dandruff
and thus removes one great cause of
I)3il(in6ss
It makes a better circulation in the
scalp and thus checks the hair from
falling out.
If your blood is poor and thin and
filled with impurities, the Hair Vigor
cannot do its best. You should take a
thorough course of treatment with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla at the same time
you are using the Hair Vigor. This
will cleanse your blood, invigorate your
nerves, and improve your health in
every way.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
“DOWKIDGE’S
as USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 17-
El i/,abeth-street-, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find ic
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation f~r straight deal
ing extending over a period of 10 years, which w
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buve>- of all other Australian ireiiis.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
NEXT DISTRIBUTION of the PROFITS at 31st DECEMBER, 1900.
ALL POLICIES issued before the close of the current year will participate in the profits to 099
The Amount of CASH BONUSES distributed among the participating policy-holders dunng the angle year 1899
was £510,771 (bonuses vest immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years), Year throu gh
Intending proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their proposals at once, either direct or tnroug
the Society’s agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s Bonus.
DIRECTORS—Sir J. P. Abbott, K.C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman; Thos. Littlejohn, Esq., Deputy °^ r ™an jJ 08 ™' 1
Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. ; B. Short, Esq. ; J. T. Walker. Esq.
General Manager and Actuary — RlCHAßD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMEROJU_Secretary^^
h
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 IQs.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
Send for a
Catalogue.
ĥ
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers ol Right Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Eight Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
At every International Exhibition since 1851, wherever
it has been in competition.
SOAP
Has invariably been awarded the Highest Distinction at
the disposal of the Judges.
The Testimony of Eminent Analytical
Chemists:
From Dr. REDWOOD, Fh.D.,
P.1.C., F.C.S., &c.,
Late Professor 0/ Chemistry and Pharmacy to the
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
“My analytical and practical experience
of Pears’ Soap now extends over a very
lengthened period—nearly 50years—during
which time I have never come across
another toilet soap which so closely realises
my ideal of perfection ; its purity is such
that it may be used with perfect confidence
upon the tenderest and most sensitive skin
—even that of a new-born babe.”
CHAS. R. C. TICHBORNE, Esq.,
LL.D., r.1.C., F.C.S.,
Lecturer on Chemistry at Carmichael College of
Medicine, Dublin, and Chemist to the Apothe-
caries* Hall of Ireland.
“I have made three separate and in-
dependent analyses of Pears’ Soap, obtain-
ing the samples myself at the ordinary
retail shops, and from these examinations
lam enabled to certify to its purity. It is
made in a most perfect manner, anil is free
from any causticity—to persons of delicate
skin a question of vital importance. Being
free from all adulteration with water its
durability is really remarkable. I cannot
speak too highly of it, for it strikingly
illustrates the perfection of toilet soap.”
STEVENSON McALAM, Esq.,
Ph.D., &c.,
lecturer on Chemistry, Surgeons' Hall,
Edinburgh, Scotland.
“I have made careful analyses of Pears’
Soap, which I have obtained indiscrimi-
nately at different shops in Edinburgh,
and loan certify to its being a pure and
genuine soap, free from admixture with
any foreign substances, and practically
devoid of causticity. It combines detergent
with emollient properties in a high degree,
and it may therefore be used with great
advantage for toilet and bath purposes,
especially in the case of children and others
whose skin is soft and delicate, and liable
to be affected by the impure and caustic
nature of ordinary soap.”
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England,
BEWARE OK SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
for making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Hali the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pud ~iug.
DELICIOUS to Stewed R ce.
DELIC OUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly iu a few
minutes, without strainiug or boiling-. The
packets are complete in themselves iu the
following flavours : —Lemon, Orange. Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
* Proprietors GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT Bagot Rd.Subiacu. Perth, W. A.&6B,King St.,Melbourne
J.S.W. Carriage
Note our New Address:
& Saddlery Ma, nf. Ccmpaixy
193 to 195 C.eveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY BUGSY, WHEELS, or any description or
UDDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent. by tmyinjr from us _
Our One-man Sulky, 16: 2-Spring Sulkies, t 7,
,!-Sprin<c Sulkies, • 7 15s. Our Special Bent Sha t
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, til.
Double Buncies, 420. Buckboard Busies from 49
,os. Ladies' Phaetons (single and double), Doe Carts,
md every desi riptio n of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order" HARNESS and S i POLKRY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price LUt. NOTICE.—Do »<•> '»
misled by any rlrms who say they will delivci I r less
than we oan. They oannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUK SPECIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
ħ
Itelirereil at any tVhari or
XS.W. Hallways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
Recently well-observed of Sydney Muni-
cipal Council that while most of its members are
capable of nothing, the rest are capable of any
thing 1
That popular official, Mr. G. A. Hodson,
for long purser of the San-Francisco-Sydney liner
Moana, has transferred his imposing personality
and invaluable services to Mr. J. D. Spreckles
fine new liner Sierra, which is about to inauguratt
the fast service between Frisco and Sydney.
So that when passengers find other sorts o,
scenery running short they will occasionally b<
able to feast their eyes on G. A. Hodson aforesaid.
The cheeky bureaucratic conspiracy U
filch from the public over an acre of the little
triangular Sydney reserve called Phillip Park,
and erect thereon certain gorgeous military offices
(to cost £25,000), has fortunately been burst up.
The thing was kept a profound secret by the
military clique. The land had been grabbed, and
everything was nicely cut and dried, when a
question in the Assembly smashed up the whole
arrangement. How the local military gang does
seek to magnify its office and get ahead of the
Commonwealth arrangements !
No slavery under the British flag. How's
this for high ?
NOTICE.
Native Laborers.
It is hereby notified, for the information of farmers and
others, that a number of surrendered Bochuana rebels
will be available as farm servants, &c., on and after 28th
Applications should be addressed to the Supt. of Nativi
Affairs, Gape Town, from whom all particulars can be ob
tained. , , ,
The period of indenture is fixed for five years, and
wages at the rate of 10s. per month for able-bodied men,
and 7s. 6d. for youths, in addition to food and housing.
Some of these youths have experience in general farm
work, while others are experienced wagon-drivers, &e.
Preference will be given to applications which will
enable families to remain together, or on farms situates
close together.
A party, comprising able-bodied Single men may be ex-
pected in Cape Town during the next ten days.
J. Rose-Innes, Acting-Superintendent of Native Affair.
Native Affairs Office, Cape Town, August 18,1897.
How well it reads after all the righteous indigna
tion against Boer disregard of native rights . Ye
in ’97 England held a slave-mart and farmed on
her prisoners, for no one pretends that the nigger
were free contracting parties to this so-called m
denture. And Mr. Rose innes salves his con
science by a clause giving preference to appliea
tions not separating families. So did the Southern
slave merchants of the U.S.
“Galloping Out”: A Navvy’s Rhyme.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Plates laid, and the spikes all a-driven; the road
has been lined-up again ;
And the best of the navvies are grafting for fame
with the ballasting train.
“Hold over the points, there, M'Carty—right!
kick ! ” —and we’re into the pit.
“Now, buck-in and bend to it, bullies ! the com-
pany bets on your grit.
Don’t pile the stuff up in the middle ; distribute it
more on the floor—
Get under, there, one of you, quickly, and fasten
that blessed trap-door.
Good enough ! ” —and the trucks are all loaded.
“ Right out ! ” —and we’re off with a bang,
And the wind and the smoke and the gravel are
hard on the ballasting gang.
Up-grade, and the driver is punching ; the engine
it lurches and sways ;
And the sparks are a-flying in thousands—there’s
Mulligan’s waistcoat ablaze !
Now down, and the lurching and jolting are
making you catch at your breath,
While the crazy old engine it narrows the margin
between you and death.
But you sneak a key out of each side-door
(although you’d be “ shot” were it known)
To keep yourself up with the others who’re all at
the trick on their own.
A whistle : “ Down brakes ! gallop out! ” and it s
collar the shovel again ;
Drop trap door and sides, and then graft for
“ First out ! ” with the ballasting train.
“ Hold-up ! Move ahead ! ” and the ganger gives
vent to his wrath in a roar—
“ Hold-up, there, condemn you !”—a bump, and
down go half-a-dozen or more.
A man to each truck, and the struggle is swayed
by the spirit of sport,
And out of it echoes the jibe and the careless and
jocund retort ;
And the grating of shovels on gravel drowns many
a terrible threat.
But a promise that’s made in a passion is ore
that it’s wise to forget.
So, it’s stiffen your muscles, and go it; there’s
nothing that matters a hang
But the goal of your grandest ambition, “Firs:,
out ! ” with the ballasting gang.
All out. “Fasten doors! Right-away !” and
she “ punches ” ’em back to the pit,
And you crouch in the truck to recover, and keep
your eyes sheltered a bit.
' Unheeding the world and its troubles you shovel
the gravel away,
And your muscle you’re ruthlessly wrecking for six-
and-a-fraction a day ;
You go for the proud reputation —the halo that
lingers about
The muscular giant who mostly can lead in the
“galloping out”;
And it may be that Sport doesn’t enter the hot
lists of Labor in vain,
But it’s good for the co. that is running the crazy
old ballasting train.
V.
BEN SUN.


Books on Mining, Assaying, Engineering, &c.
JpARK S Cyanide Process, 6s 6d ; Beringer’s Assaying,
in „ Jf" J ° hn “ n ? Getting Gold, 4s ; Box’s Prospect-
iJSLi,, 68 Jd i, r i?' k s Oner’s Pocket Book, 14s;
5s . T 17s i Innes’ Centrifugal Pumps,
8 , < ? lvil Engineer’s Pocket Book, 235;
PnSIL - Engine Handbook, 9s; Molesworth’s
tS sll f Eook, 6s 6d; Wannan’s Engineer’s
• wn- 6d 1 Gfnas. Mineralogy, 18s 6d ; Trail’s Boilers,
/?,’ Wellington s Railway Location, 265. Posted to any
Address Catalogues Gratis. J. DONNE & SON.
Booksellers, 346 Little Collins St., Melbourne
Books. Books. Books.
TDOPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vola., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers'
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
So ia 2 Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
i oj r or History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R. W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streec, Sidney.
Tbe Australian jjjjjidouis’ Fund Qife Assurance Society [td.
whictHssueTSpecial'pob cdes^guarding*— UBUal f ° nnS ° f Assura,lce > is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
11. the'case
Board of Directors:
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.LO Chairman*
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMEs’ WATSON? M.L.OL
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income ...
w ., , a Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus 1
' GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
exceeds £220,000
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o PKFY COMIPjaXITIOW.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SIT BN IS IT.
6ood Tailoriog.
SUMMER.
Light Weight Tweeds
AND
Worsteds .
PURE INDIGO SERGES,
LIGHT AND TROPICAL WEIGHTS
TO STAND THE SUN.
FANCY TROUBERINGS, VESTINGS, &c.
Patterns and Self-Measure Charts Post Free.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Outfitters,
73 and 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Bole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR UNDERWEAR.
All Kinds of Shirts.
Price List and Samples Post Free.
A. BOWMAN’S
Wholesale Boot Warehouse
Our object is to do a very Large Trade at a very Small
Profit, and give the Public the benefit.
ALL SOUND ENCLISH BOOTS. NO BETTER MADE.
76a PITT ST., near Union Bank,
and 318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 145 KING- ST., opp. Theatre Royal.
You can have a Single
Pair at Wholesale Price,
14/6
6/6 Less than Retail Price.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
GUINEA
BOOTS
AT
14/6.
\l?3£HZ£c
1.0. F
1
1
L.B.C
7>
order
Registered under the “Companies
Act, 1890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S.A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, over £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £838,581.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
ORDER • FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 52 Vic. and 59 Vic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The 1.0. P. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, but also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
All Premium paying in the 1.0. P. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability.
Policies for £lOO, £2OO, £4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
Office for South Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria. Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. McNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne..
Office for New South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 George St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus, with full Table of Pates, &c., on Application.
o
<r
<£7
O
<o
«o
A*
u
O
P&B
§
B Y SPECIAL PERMISSION
“ Oaks," Polo Pony Stud Farm, Monavale,
Messrs. E. RICH & CO. LTD. j 6fh october< jg o o.
24-26 O'Connell-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Gentlemen- Herewith find cheque for account enclosed. The terra-cotta color is a marked success, please forward another
tin. The wonderful success of P& B Ruberoid on flat roofs has quite decided me on the class of roofs I shall place on the con-
templated 24 cottages. Photographs would give a better idea of the class of work that P&B Ruberoid has been so signally
successful on. 6 J
Yours faithfully, GEO. S. BROCK.
P.S.—lhave had several letters of thanks, especially one from the Reverend Father of St. Aloysius College, who had a flat
covered with a sort of Val de Travers, which gave them endless trouble; and since they applied P & B Ruberoid it has given
every satisfaction. — G.B. 6
NOTE. Mr. Brock s roojs were put on over three years since, and cover his Residences, Ballroom, Stables, Fowl-
houses, Dog Kennels, Duck Sheds, Grand Stand, etc. All roofs except that of his residence being fiat.
P&B Ruberoid is much cheaper and cooler than iron. A post-card request will bring you fullest particulars.
Agents—E. RICH & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.
h
ĥ


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1083.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1900.
Priob 6d.
OLD CLO'.
VICTORIA (to Drummer Reid) : “Do you really think that anyone puts on such a dreadful thing as that nowadays? Say 'Yes’ or No.'"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pottage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Crafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Jilack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street <Sc Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 3!£ Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 83 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with Bs. Bd. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of IM. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — \\d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17, ISOO.
A Policy for the Commonwealth: A
Federal Bank—not like J. Munro’s.
The Parliament shall, subject to this constitution, have
power to make laws for the peace, order and good govern-
ment of the Commonwealth, with respect to . . .
XIII. Banking, other than State banking ; also State
banking extending beyond the limits of the State con-
cerned, the incorporation of banks, and the issue of paper
money. —Commonwealth Constitution, clause 51.
Two of the States of Australasia now con-
duct banks, or partly conduct them ; three
of them conduct land banks on a large scale,
and three more have started, or propose to
start, them in a small, apologetic, experi-
mental way. Therefore Australasia is more
or less definitely committed to the State
banking idea. The people didn’t rush at the
idea ; they were practically driven to it by
the incompetence and dishonesty and failure
of Private Enterprise. Private Enter-
prise, after scoffing for years with a super-
cilious scoff at the impossibility of the
State knowing how to run a bank,
and after inflating itself with pride at
its own success in that direction, appealed
despairingly to the Government to save it
from the ruin which its own muddle had
brought about. And the Government did
so, with surprising results. The Bank of
New Zealand, which lost £37,356 in its last
year of private management, made a splendid
profit of £242,520 for its last year under
State management. In other words, if it
had been wholly a State Bank, instead of
merely one where the State supplied almost
all the capital and all the management and
the brains, while most of the profits went
to improve the position of the private share-
holder—if, instead of having £2,500,000
of State capital and £419,519 of private
capital, the State had put up the whole
£2,919,519 capital, borrowing the money at
3| per cent. —last year’s profits of the Bank
of New Zealand would have paid full interest
on the said £2,919,519, and there would
have been sufficient besides to add £70,000
to reserve fund and pay £70,000 to
the public Treasury in aid of the revenue.
In like manner, the Queensland National
Bank, which lost £27,033 in its last year
under private management, made a profit
during its last year under modified State
control of £54,788. If the £425,000
or thereabouts of alleged shareholders’
capital had been all State money borrowed
at 3J per cent, this would have been suffi-
cient to pay interest and leave nearly
£40,000 towards a reserve fund or to assist
the public revenue.
* * * *
In each case the profits were less than they
should have been on account, of the mass of
non-profit-earning assets left behind by the
imbecile private management. In each case
the State handed over the profits to help pay
the awful burden of debt left behind by the
private management. In each case the
Government gave its own brains and labour
gratis, for the benefit of the private
shareholders. But the results show not only
that the State can run a bank successfully,
but that it can do it successfully under cir-
cumstances where private management can’t.
The regrettable mistake that the Govern-
ments of Queensland and Maoriland made
was in not absolutely taking over the two
banks which they are nursing into solvency.
They could have bought them both very
cheaply in the days when private manage-
ment had reduced them to be worth less than
nothing, and re-built them, so that they
might become immensely profitable State
assets, and yield a large revenue to the
Treasury. As it is, the State, by means of
the public money and credit and intelli-
gence, is building them up to be gi’eat profit-
earning institutions, so that the large pro-
portion of shareholders who live in England,
may drain more money out of this country
in dividends than they otherwise would ; and
be greater and more costly absentees, and
a heavier tax on a community which has far
too many absentees to support.
* m ' * «
There are these reasons for the opinion
that the Commonwealth Government should
start a great Federal Bank, with branches in
all the principal centres of the Common-
wealth. The experience of Maoriland and
Queensland, to say nothing of very many
years of experience in Europe, has shown
that the State can run a banking business
safely and profitably, and furnish a more
secure place for the deposit of the people’s
money than any private institution can offer.
It can find the money to start a Federal
Bank, or to buy up existing institutions and
create a Federal Bank out of them, at 3J per
cent., whereas the private shareholders, in
anything like good times, get three times as
much on their money, and as more than one-
third of Australian banking capital is held
in England, the payment of this heavy divi-
dend rate is a very serious drain on Aus-
tralia’s resources. With only per cent,
to pay on its capital, the Federal Bank could
build up large reserves out of surplus profits,
and out of these reserves it could, in a
comparatively few years, repay the capital
in full. After that, even if it carried
half the profits to reserve fund and
put only the other half in the Treasury,
the Commonwealth’s institution should be a
very handsome source of revenue. And the
Commonwealth naturally wants all the
sources of revenue it can find—especially
those it can find without taxing the people,
and most of all those that it can find while
doing direct good to the people.
* • * *
Of course it will be urged that a Federal
Bank must needs injure the business of
existing private banks. Not only is this the
case, but its direct object and purpose should
be to injure certain of the private banks.
Its object should be, directly or indirectly,
to crush out the English-owned banks, or
buy them out and take over the business, or
in some way to occupy their place. This is
said, not in any spirit of animosity, but as a
matter of business, and of hard necessity.
Out of £21,000,000 of Australasian banking
capital £8,000,000 is owned in England. So
far as local shareholders are concerned
this country has no grievance. The
local shareholders make their money out of
Australia, and they spend it in Australia, and
Australia has nothing serious to complain of.
But the English shareholder—and several
banks are almost wholly owned in England
—is only another form of the absentee, who
is such an appalling drain on this country’s
resources. Australia can’t afford to pay 9or
10 per cent, for the use of English capital,
and that is about what it has been paying on
an average, despite the falling off in profits
of the last few years, and what it will proba-
bly be very soon paying again, for the use of
banking capital supplied from England. The
Federal Government should offer to buy up,
at their fair market-value, the businesses of
the English banks trading in Australia, with
a view to creating a Federal Bank out
of them. If they won’t sell, it is so
much the more to be regretted ; the Federal
Bank should be created all the same, and
the only visible resource then is to levy an
absentee income-tax of such large propor-
tions (even to the extent, if necessary, of
making it 400 per cent, higher than the local
income-tax) as will tend to stop the export
of bank shares and to make it more profitable
for English shareholders in Australian banks
to sell out to Australian holders. And if the
English banks doing business in Australia
are willing to sell their business to the State
a very large absentee-tax should be imposed
all the same to prevent another great body
of absentees growing up. It isn’t a crime,
or even a moral disparagement, to be an
absentee bank shareholder. The only
trouble is that Australia can’t afford to pay
9 or 10 per cent, interest on borrowed money
even to a most honorable and deserving
class, and it is essential to abolish that class,
partly to make more room for a Federal
Bank, partly on general principles.
* * * *
Also—which is another equally important
consideration —Australia can’t afford to lose
the large sum per annum which a Fede-
ral Bank would yield in course of time
to the Federal treasury. Of course,
this wouldn’t be an immediate profit. If
the Commonwealth Government bought up
the Anglo-Australian banks at their fair pre-
sent value, the Federal institution would
probably start with a goodwill item of
over £2,000,000, which would require
to be written off out of earnings before
there would be any real profit. But in
twenty years or so it should be possible,
judging from the success which State bank
management has already achieved, to repay
out of profits the entire sum borrowed for
the purchase of the Anglo-Australian banks,
and after that the earnings of the Federal
Bank would be all net profit for the people
of the Commonwealth, and a very large and
exorbitant absentee, who has drained Aus-
tralia of an incredible amount of money,
would drain it no longer.
* * * *
A Federal land bank is the natural
concomitant of the Federal bank. Cheap
money, not only for farmers, but for every-
body who can offer good enough security in
the form of land or brick and mortar, is one
of the essentials of prosperity. So far as
concerns South Australia and Victoria, there
is no special reason why the Commonwealth
Government should interfere in this line of
business. Each of these States has its own
State land bank, and these two institutions
are run on sufficiently liberal principles,
and fill the public w'ant reasonably well.
Doubtless, too, the principles will expand,
and they will fill the public want still better
as time goes on. If the other four States
could only decide to follow their example in-
stead of pottering feebly with the idea, or
not pottering with it at all, as in the past ; and
still more if the other four States could decide
to improve on their example, there would
be no urgent reason why the Commonwealth
should go into the land bank industry. But
if the four States don’t very shortly devise
some comprehensive system of cheap money-
lending, there is every possible reason why
the Commonwealth should establish a
Federal Land Bank, with blanches in every
State, and supply cheap money for all Aus-
tralia and Tasmania, and take over the Vic-
torian and S.A. banks as the nucleus of the
institution. Any Government which fur-
nished cheap money to the producers of
Queensland and Tasmania and Westralia
would give these States a lift such as they
haven’t met with for many a weary year, and
as the Commonwealth can make profit for
itself and the people by supplying cheap
money to the non-producer as well, there is
no reason why it should not do that also.
It could raise the capital for loan purposes
a shade more cheaply than even the best of
the individual States, and the business
would be all the more profitable in conse-
quence. Land banks, either State or other-
wise, have existed for many years in Germany,
Austria, France, Russia, Norway, Sweden
Denmark and other countries. In fact, the
time has come when no State with a civilised
land system is complete without them ; the
absence of them in Britain, where a handful
of great proprietors own practically the
whole country, only proves that Britain has
not a civilised land system. If the more
backward of the Australian States can’t re-
solve to supply this urgent want for them-
selves, then the Federal Government must
needs fill the gap. One of the chief pur-
poses of the Federal Government is to shove
the more backward of the Australian States
into the line of progress and make money
for itself while doing it, and to profitably
round up the most hopeless of the stragglers.
* * * »
Moreover, even the admirable State land
banks of Victoria and S.A. are disfigured
with one curious blot, and there is room for
the Commonwealth to improve upon even
the best of the existing Australasian systems.
Both in Victoria and in S.A. the founders
couldn’t quite realise that State land bank-
ing is a tried and successful institution, of at
least 48 years standing. They had a linger-
ing idea that they were fooling with a
dangerous animal, and that their wildly-
original experiment, as they considered it,
might break down or blow' up. They were
so anxious on this point that they loaded
up their system with provisoes about the
State’s power to repay at short notice the
money bjrrow'ed for land-bank purposes,
and consequently people in want of a per-
manent investment didn't rush to supply the
necessary capital so freely as they otherwise
might have done. The Federal Parliament
could afford to recognise that its land bank
has come to stay as long as Australia stays.
It could get abundance of money at 3| per
cent, in Australia by offering a certain "in-
vestment for 20 years, the money being
repayable thereafter at the Government’s
option only. In course of time, it would be
able to commence repaying the borrowed
capital out of accumulated profits, and thus,
in the remote future, make the Federal land
bank a great unencumbered national asset.
The whole financial policy of the Federal
Government the one truly democratic
Government in Australasia—should be based
on a yearning after unencumbered national
assets, if only to mark its divergence from
the old semi-Tory system, whereby every-
thing Australian was put in pawn, and the
Australian never, from his cradle to his
grave, stood on anything that hadn’t also a
mortgage on it to keep him company.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Some More of the Facts of G. Reid.
There are men, doubtless, who would feel ashamed
if thej' were discovered constantly bolstering up
their political creed with statements so glaringly
and invariably untrue that the widest charity
can’t set down the discrepancy to mere error, but
ex-Premier George Reid certainly isn’t one of
them. When that personage uses any figures or
alleged facts to support the political cause which
pays him his occasional salary, or to damage the
political cause of his opponent, the mere fact of
his using them is almost prima facie evidence that
they are wholly untrue. But not one man in
1000 dreams of auditing the statistics of a platform
speaker, so any politician with sufficient lack of
conscience to invent his statistics as he goes along
can be a convincing orator; for though the statis-
tics one finds in reliable works of reference may
not be good for bolstering up a Freetrade argu-
ment, those that the Freetrade man invents as he
goes along always are. For instance, here is
another sample of the wonderful shoddy man at
Adelaide:—
You have had this great national blessing (Protection)
for 14 years.
It is rather difficult to say when Revenue Tariff-
ism merged into Protection in S.A., but Reid
thus fixes the date at about the end of 1886.
Then :
I see that your population for the six years before you
got salvation increased by 39,000 souls. Six years after
that the increase totalled only 19,000.
By George Reid’s own showing, the six years
after S.A. found salvation were the six years from
about the end of 1886 to the end of 1892. And in
these six years the population of S.A., as shown
by the province’s Statistical Register, increased
from 304,336 to 336,702 —an increase of over
32,000 instead of 19,000. Yet so great is the ten-
dency to take for granted the figures which any
blatant and unscrupulous individual casts at the
public from a platform that not one S.A. paper
noticed the awful discrepancy. And, by the way,
the same S.A. Statistical Register shows that
during the last years of Freetrade in S.A. the
population decreased —from 307,433 in 1884 to
304,336 in 1886. Some more of the same person :
They have in Melbourne employing three men an in-
dustry which involves a duty on barbed wire of £3 a ton,
and all the farmers and settlers of Victoria have to pay £3
a ton on barbed wire because there is a line in the tariff
that keeps three men going.
The Vic. barbed wire industry employs directly
38 men and finds sustenance for their families.
This is saying nothing of the number indirectly
employed. And instead of Protection making
barbed wire £3 per ton dearer in Victoria than it
otherwise would be, it has apparently resulted in
making it cheaper. At all events N.S.W. in 1899
spent ,£41,449 in buying imported barbed wire
(N.S.W. Statistical Register for 1899, part IV.,
page 48). And of this quantity it bought £39,848
worth from the protected United States, £1314
worth (all, as well as the Victorian -local
supply and the exports to other States,
supposed to be made by three men) from pro-
tected Victoria (presumably because of the greater
cheapness of the protected article), and only £5
worth from Freetrade Britain (possibly because
of the extra high price of the Freetrade article).
And, by way of another sample of George Reid :
In England, in protectionist times, almost every woman
and child was in a mine or factory. Fortunately times
have changed.
So they have. But they changed to a great extent
before Freetrade came in, and under Freetrade
they seem to be gradually changing back again.
Mulhall, in his great Dictionary oe Statistics
(under the heading of “Occupations,” page 424)
goes only as far back as 1841, but that year was
somewhere towards the end of the long Protec-
tionist period in England, so it may serve as well
as any other to compare with the latest Freetrade
year quoted—lßßl. Mulhall doesn’t go into
mining matters, but under the head of manufac-
tures he is rather interesting :
Employed in Manufactures (England and Wales).
Males. Females.
1841 (Protection) 1,306,000 492,000
1881 (Freetrade) 2,236,000 1,363,000
Increase .. 930,000 871,000
Thus, during what may be called the Freetrade
period the number of men employed in English
factories wasn’t doubled by a long way, while the
number of women so employed almost trebled.
Males increased 71 per cent., and females 178 per
cent. On the same page Mulhall sets forth that
from the Protectionist year 1841 to the Freetrade
year 1881, the men employed in agriculture in
England and Wales increased 3 per cent., the
females 14 per cent. And here is George Reid
again, as seriously reported in the daily papers
In the United States 78 per cent, of the earnings of
labor went in taxation.
Total national and local taxation in the United
Htates is about £210,000,000, of which £80,000,000
comes from taxes on property ; population is
73,000,000; average, even supposing the work-
man with no property paid as much as the rich
man with property, £3 per head per annum, or
£ls for the man who has to maintain him-
self, wife and three children. So if that is
78 per cent, of his earnings, the average earn-
ings of the American toiler must be about
7s. 3d. a week. And George Reid, a
grown man, said to be in his right mind, actually
asks a sane audience to believe this unspeakable
twaddle. Later on the same dreadful old man
told his audience that starch sold per lb.
cheaper in Sydney than in Melbourne. The real
prices are 3id. per lb. in Melbourne and 3±d. or
4d. per lb. in Sydney. Even a man so devoid of
general literature as Reid couldn’t always get his
figures wrong by accident, and always get them
wrong just in the way that suited his own theories
and his own political interests by accident. Con-
sequently the suspicion becomes almost irresistible
that he knew he was telling what was glaringly
untrue in order to bolster up the dying political
fraud and fetish by which he has his political
importance and his occasional political salary.
Freetrade and Millionaires.
It is one of the standing theories of the Free-
trader (who dare not practise his own doctrine
consequently there are no civilised Freetrade
countries) that Protection is a policy which leads
to the concentration of wealth in the hands of the
very few. It is alluded to glibly and off-handedly
as monopoly,” as the policy of “interested
parties, and so forth. The existence of trusts
and millionaires. ™ the United States is set down
to its nefarious influence, it being an unwritten


iTticle of the Freetrader’s faith that there are no
millionaires anywhere except in the United
States. And Freetrade, or rather Revenue Tariff-
ism, is always described as a policy which doesn’t
lead to the making of millionaires, t© monopoly,
or to the concentration of wealth in the hands of
the few. In view of which theories The Bulletin
quotes the following, from page 100 of the “In-
dustries and Wealth of Nations,” published in
1896 by that eminent statistician and sturdy
British Freetrader, Mulhall. Speaking of
Great Britain and Ireland, he says :
Nearly 80 per cent, of the total wealth is held hy per
cent, of the adult population. . . . Fortunes over £SOOO
are multiplying' much faster than those under £SOOO ;
which is the reverse of what is desirable.
On the same page Mulhall shows how the
Britisher pans out in the way of assets when lie
dies, and the State takes stock of his property.
For the five years 1889-1893 the ayerage number
of adults who died each year in the United
Kingdom was 391,000, and this is how their bones
crushed per ton:
Average per
head.
478 Wealthy people left £63,800,000 .. £133,000
5,544 Affluent ~ „ 70,100,000 .. 12,000
43,898 Middle-class „ 30,900,000 .. 702
341,080 adults died and left nothing apiece that the
law could take cognisance off —nothing save
their old clothes and a few humble sticks of
furniture ; sometimes not even the furniture.
Great Britain comes nearer to being a real Free-
trade country than any other civilised state on
earth, and the millionaire and the monopolist
appear to be progressing gaily there, while the
rest of the community has a bad time. W hen 50
years of the nearest approach to Freetrade that
can be found leaves 80 per cent, of Britain’s wealth
in the hands of 1| per cent, of the people, the less
the Freetrader has to say about Protection and its
alleged twin brother, Monopoly, the better. None
of the leading Protectionist states show quite so
iwful a record as this.
♦
A Quaint Old Fallacy.
A very silly Foreign-trade gag, much used at one
time by such remarkable reasoners as Henry
George and John Haynes, was dug up again in
a rather decomposed state by ex-Premier George
Reid in Melbourne:
There were two things so plain that even dullness itself
should not fail to understand them. The first was that
whatever the sum was that was transmitted to the Euro-
pean creditor, it must be paid by exported produce of
some kind. The second was that whatever imports were
received from the old land must always be paid for in
corresponding exports. Yet, when the _ protectionist
crusade was on and the protectionist tariff was being
framed for the Commonwealth, the people were told that
the correct idea of a policy was to send produce to the
old country, and gather in coin in exchange. A tariff
was framed with the object of keeping the money in the
country.
And there is one answer so obvious that even the
dullest Freetrader should be able to see it coming :
If all the exports received from the old land must
be paid for in corresponding exports, how do Aus-
tralia and Tasmania come to owe the old land
about £170,000,000? When Australia’s first
foreign loan was floated it either came out in
money or goods, and both of them were included
among the imports. If the exports of produce had
equalled the imports that loan would have been
instantly paid off. So would every other public
and private loan. If all imports (merchandise or
specie) that came here from the old land must be
paid for in exports, through the operation of an
infallible Freetrade law, then Australia couldn’t
owe the old country or any other country a darned
copper, however hard it tried to. Again, if all im-
ports were necessarily paid for in exports, how did
any people ever manage to come here unless they
came naked, for even an emigrant’s box of clothes
is an import? Does Reid mean that the price of
these clothes was immediately sent back to some
one in Europe, in order that all imports should be
paid for with exports ? And why does Reid say
that the interest on foreign debt must be paid in
produce, seeing that, by his own showing, there
can’t beany foreign debt ? A foreign debt could only
come about by the exports not balancing the im-
ports—which, it seems, is impossible. The Free-
trader who is surprised at the dullness of the Pro-
tectionist in not seeing that a foreign debt is im-
possible is very suggestive of the common back-
yard hog being mildly astonished at the ignorance
of a philosopher.
The Perth Ice Co. Stench.
The affairs of the Perth (W. A.) Ice Co. begin to
smell worse than a ten-storey bone-mill. At
latest advices a Parliamentary committee had sat
on the matter, had decided that huge frauds were
committed on the W.A. Railways by officials of
the Ice Co., and had recommended that certain
persons should be criminally prosecuted. And
according to the latest advices at time of writing
no prosecution of these persons had started, but
the Railway Department (which is the Govern-
ment under an alias) had started a prosecution for
criminal libel against the owners of the Sun news-
paper, which was partly instrumental in dragging
the fraud to light, for not making its exposures
and comments in more gentlemanly language ! !
Undoubtedly the Sun’s language was a trifle
strong, but the press had to howl persis-
tently for a very long time about the glaring
iniquities of this company, with its directorate
of high politicians and others, before it could even
get an inquiry, and a good deal of language was
excusable under the circumstances. The Sun cer-
tainly cast aspersions on the highly-placed direc-
tors of the Ice Co., and these aspersions haven’t
been legally proved ; neither have they been dis-
proved by any public criminal trial of the persons
who are now carrying the brunt of the responsi-
bility. But the fact remains that either the direc-
tors, or some of them, knew of and sanctioned
what was going on, or else they had some servants
of such an enthusiastic character that they were
ready to run the risk of getting into gaol to make
larger dividends for their employers. Still the
Sun made a ghastly mistake ; it should have de-
nounced the Ice Co.’s corrupt and venal office-boy,
and said nothing about people in higher places.
Further, the Sun seems tohave accused theßailway
Department of conniving at the frauds. That was
also rash—yet it hasn’t been proved so far, at any
trial in open court, that the Department didn’t
connive. According to the evidence given at the
Parliamentary inquiry, it would seem that the Ice
Co. habitually sent high-freight goods as low-
freight goods, and apparently wild horses wouldn’t
drag any railway official to inspect its goods and
see if they were as per way-bill. It also, appa-
rently, made a habit of sending five tons of goods
as three tons, and things like that, whereby the
Department lost much freight-money; and it
would seem that nothing could induce any railway
official to weigh the Perth Ice Co.’s consignments,
though it was common enough to weigh other
people’s consignments. No official was reckless
enough to say that he had received orders not to
weigh the Perth Ice Co.’s consignments, but
there has been no public trial to sufficiently
explain how this strangely - unanimous habit
grew up without orders. Still, the Sun news-
paper was a great fool; it should have been justly
severe on the corrupt railway clerk, and the
debased individual who shunted the trucks, and
the horse that drew the cart whereby the consign-
ments were unloaded, and said nothing about
anybody else. If the Government puts everybody
visibly connected with the frauds on trial then it
is probable, with a long term of imprisonment m
view, that these subordinate people will show
where and how they got their instructions —if they
got any instructions. At present it isn’t worth
their while, even supposing any highly-placed
individuals were in the matter, to say anything
about these highly-placed individuals (if they
were in it) until they find out for certain that the
highly-placed individuals (supposing they were in
it) are unable to protect them. When the highly-
placed railway and other bosses have been cleared
of all possible suspicion at a public trial of the
visible subordinate offenders, then it is time
enough to proceed against the paper which libelled
them. As things are, it looks very much as if it
was more important to bottle up the press and
prevent it calling too vociferously for an investi-
gation in the criminal court, than to hurry on the
said investigation.
+
B.eaching' Out for the Federal Capital.
Amid the enthusiastic rallying of the Sydney
traders round Orange-Canoblas as the site for the
Federal capital, there is a general tendency to
suppress the fact that the Commissioner appointed
to select suitable sites declared the Bombala one
distinctly the best. What is the good of appoint-
ing a Commissioner if his recommendations are
to be ignored at the very .outset ? And when
Sydney Telegraph, and theLvNE crowd, and the
President Randal Carey crowd, and the imported
softgoods crowd, refuse to stand by the recommen-
dation of the purely N.S.W. Commissioner, how
can they expect the Federal members from the
other States to take any notice of it? There isn’t
even the miserably parochial excuse to allege
against Bombala that its trade would go to Mel-
bourne. If the very shortest possible line of rail-
way was built to connect it with Melbourne it
would still be 62 miles longer than the line to
Sydney. All the sites suggested are far nearer to
Sydney than to Melbourne by the shortest poss-
ible route; as for Brisbane and Adelaide, they
haven’t a ghost of a look-in anywhere. So the
Sydney crowd’s position is about this
1. We appointed a thoroughly good man (we said he
was such) to select a site.
2. He recommended Bombala as the best site.
3. We demand that instead the second-best site
(Orange-Oanoblas) shall be selected because Sydney must
inevitably -get all the trade of a city in that position. It
is to the Commonwealth’s interest to get the best site,
but the Commonwealth’s interest doesn’t matter a straw
compared with the interests of the Sydney importers.
4. The Bombala trade would go to a rival N.S.W. port
at Eden, which can’t be tolerated. No part even of
N.S.W. must be considered except Sydney.
The N.S.W. Commissioner refused to consider
any site in northern N.S.W. on the ground that he
was bound to follow the mass of population. As
there is nothing in the Commonwealth Bill about
following the mass of population, the Queensland
delegates have a right to reject the Commissioner’s
recommendations bodily—for the reason that they
were partly based on considerations that were not
in the bond. Places adjacent to the Queensland
border, so long as they were in N.S.W., over 100
miles from Sydney, and otherwise suitable, had
the same right to be considered as any others.
And all the Federal members of the five non-
Cornstalk States have a right to tell the Sydney
crowd this : “ When you off-handedly reject what
your own Commissioner says is the best site
because it doesn’t suit Sydney, then we have
equally good grounds to reject his other sites
because they don’t suit Brisbane, Adelaide, or
Melbourne. If you won’t stand by the recom-
mendations of your own Commissioner, why
should we?” The Sydney importing crowd is
mixing things up beautifully.
The People’s Mandate.
This is how the members of the new Victorian
Parliament are pledged on the three questions
which turned up most persistently at the recent
General Election: —
For. Against. Un-
pledged.
Election of a People’s Conven-
tion to draft complete new
Constitution 53 23 19
Woman Suffrage .. 70 22 3
Old Age Pensions .. 79 0 16
The people deliberately declared their desire for
Old Age Pensions, Woman Suffrage, and the elec-
tion of a popular Convention to draft a new State
Constitution (which must necessarily include the
radical reform of the House of 48 Rich Landlords)
by electing an enormous majority in favor of these
three reforms. And, in addition, by electing an
enormous preponderance of Liberals, they gave a
general assent to the programme of the leader who
mainly advocated these things. Yet when theSe
matters come before the House of 48 Landlords
that pompous institution will doubtless deny that
there is any visible mandate from the people on
any of these subjects. It will probably say some-
thing like this, when the radical reform of the
Constitution by means of a Popular Convention is
proposed :
It is true that the people elected a large majority of
members in favor of this idea, but we have no evidence,
in the absence of a Referendum, that the people elected
them because they favored this idea. They may have
been elected because they advocated Woman's Suffrage.
We require a more definite mandate.
And when Woman Suffrage comes on
The people elected a vast majority of members who ad-
vocated Woman’s Suffrage, but there is no proof at all
that these members were elected because they favored
Woman’s Suffrage. These Woman’s Suffragists might
have got it by accident owing to their advocacy of Old
Age Pensions. Only the Referendum can prove that the
people do want Woman’s Suffrage. We are willing to bow
to the people’s mandate, but this mandate isn’t definite
enough.
And in the matter of Old Age Pensions
The people elected 79 supporters of Old Age Pensions
and not one opponent. But only a Referendum can prove
that this stupendous majority was elected because it ad-
vocated Old Age Pensions. Quite possibly these 79 were
elected because they supported Woman’s Suffrage and
constitutional reform by means of a popularly-elected
Convention. The mandate of the people isn’t clear
enough.
And finally on the Referendum :
We won’t have a Referendum because in the absence of
a Referendum it is impossible to prove that the people
want a Referendum. We must have a mandate from the
people.
And so the Fat Man’s fraud goes round and round
in a circle. And so it will probably keep on going
till the Assembly says : “ Until you consent to the
establishment of a new Leg. Council on the lines
of the Federal Senate we will stop payment of
interest on the public debt and rum your great
financial institutions in the panic that will ensue.
We do this according to your own logic. We have
no mandate from the people to go on paying the
interest until you cave in.”
Lyne’s Old Age Pension Scheme,
The N.S.W. Premier is manfully plugging away
at his Old Age Pensions Bill, and he certainly
couldn’t be better employed. Lyne’s scheme is
an intelligent and courageous attempt to deal
with one of the biggest problems of the age, and
it deals with it, on the whole, very well. But
behind the Old Age Pension Bill itself the cloven
hoof of a most remarkable circumstance asserts
itself. The measure will involve a probable
expenditure of £500,000 a year, and even allowing
for the savings which it will cause on the other
charitable votes the extra expenditure will pro-
bably be £300,000 or £350,000. This won’t
be nearly all extra expenditure, so far as
concerns the nation, for the amount that will
be saved in miscellaneous private charity will
be very large. But it will all be extra expendi-
ture as regards the Treasury ; and Lyne is cheerily
shunting his measure through without providing a
copper for the payment of the necessary out-
goings. All the explanation given so far is that
the money is to come out of the Consolidated Re-
venue, as in Maoriland. But there are some con-
siderable differences in the two cases. N.S.W.
has an accumulated deficit of about £5,000,000 if
everything is taken into account; Maoriland has
none. Maoriland had £440,000 surplus last year
after paying its Old Age Pensions ; N.S.W. had
nearly £llB,OOO deficit without paying any pen-
sions. N.S.W. needs about £900,000 a year more
revenue merely to cover ordinary e-xpenses ; that
is about the amount it steals out of loan funds for
revenue purposes in order to keep up the fiction
that it is able to pay its way under Reid’s light
revenue-tariff-with-a-small-dash-of-Proteetion. It
needs £1,200,000 a year more revenue in orderto pay
its Old Age Pensions and make itself as solvent as
Maoriland was last year—though even Maoriland’s
finances were capable of much improvement.
This isn’t a reason why Old Age Pensions should
be abandoned —not by any means. But it is a
very good reason for viewing with great derision
the MiCAWBER-like methods of finance which con-
sist wholly of trusting that something will turn
up. Maoriland’s taxation last year (customs,
excise, and land and income taxes) was £3 16s. 9d.
per head. That was why Maoriland managed to
pay its Old Age Pensions, to cover all outgoings,
and to transfer £500,000 from revenue to its
Public Works Fund. N.S.W.’s entire taxation
last year was £llBs. 7d. per head ; that was why
it had £llB,OOO deficit, had to steal £879,000 of
loan funds to cover ordinary expenditure, and had
no money to pay Old Age Pensions with. And
there is no remedy except in the shape of More
Taxation. Merely talking about the magnificent
resources of the country won’t fill the gap. Con-
versation isn’t cash.
The Philp Government must inevitably dodge on
all questions —Federal and provincial alike. In
dividing Queensland into districts for the purpose
of Federal representation the following beautiful
bit of jugglery was worked. According to Fox-
TON’s original scheme the division of Capricornia
was to number 10,841 electors, while Maranoa (the
smallest in point of number) was to include 9541.
Thus there was already a discrepancy of 1300
votes against Maranoa. But the Philp party
wasn’t satisfied. Capricornia is a lost electorate
in any case, and is dead sure to return an anti-
Philpite to the Federal House of Representatives.
And Maranoa, because it included the strongly-
Labor districts of Barcoo and Mitchell, was also
dead sure to return an anti-Philpite. That made
two anti-Philpites, and the Boodle Govern-
ment was grieved. So Barcoo and Mitchell
were transferred to the Capricornia electorate,
and things now stand thus: Capricornia
electorate, which is sure to return an
anti-Philpite, is to have one member for
14,131 electors. The greatly reduced Maranoa is
to have one member for 6251 electors —but this
fag-end of Maranoa is to some extent a strong-
hold of the Boodle Government, and the Philp
party is reasonably sure of getting it to elect a
man of its way of stealing. It is a poor, mean
swindle to deprive the democratic party of one
Federal vote. And it is a poor, futile swindle to
boot, for the democratic majority in the Federal
House of Representatives will be so large that
one extra boodler from Maranoa will make no
difference. And the first time the Federal Par-
liament has a moment to spare it will map out all
the electorates afresh according to population, so
the chances are that the Maranoa political fraud
will only make the hopelessly small Tory frag-
ment in the Federal Lower House one vote
stronger for one single Parliament. It wasn’t
worth doing such an elaborate juggle for such a
small result.
+
Melbourne Age, of 30th Oct., mentioned that
during the preceding week no less than 80 prisoners
had complained that the hominy supplied them
was musty and unfit for human consumption.
This unanimity, coupled with the fact that they
ran the risk of heavy punishment by complaining,
was strong evidence that there were some grounds
for their statement. On 29th they were brought up
privately before Dobbin and Morrison, J’s.P.,
to answer the charge of “making a groundless
complaint.” They weren’t called up, first of
all, to ascertain if the complaint was ground-
less; that was simply taken for granted. By
way of keeping up appearances, however, the
Government Visiting Medical Officer and the
Govt. Analyst testified that a sample of hominy
had been submitted to them and it was perfectly
wholesome. There was nothing said about the
sample complained of being submitted to any un-
biassed authority to see if the complaint was
groundless or otherwise. It merely appears that
the officials accused of supplying food unfit for
consumption furnished a sample at their own con-
venience, and it was all right. And certainly
they would have been very dunderheaded officials if
that sample wasn’t all right. So inasmuch as the
men complained that one sample of food was bad,
and the evidence showed that one—possibly quite
a different —sample was good, the two J’s.P. pro-
ceeded to serve out sentences ranging from two
to 21 days’ solitary. Twenty-one days’ solitary
for saying the gruel was dubious ! And in North
Melbourne and Carlton and many other places
you can kick a man’s head in and break his leg in
two places for about 20s. fine.
'
Dr Creed, M.L.C., has introduced a Bill for
“reforming” the N.S.W. Leg. Council after a
hideously clumsy and incomprehensible fashion.
He proposes :
(1) That the Council shall contain half as many
members as the Assembly. Any members in excess of
that number to retire at once, retaining their free railway
pass and other advantages for life.
(2) Members to sit nominally for seven years. One-
seventh of the members to retire every year. But as the
retiring members are to be selected by lot a good man
might be retired seven times in as many years and be re-
elected, and a hopelessly useless one who had -, good luck
in the gamble might hold his seat for 31 years right off.
It is a sort of government by Tattersall, so to speak.
(3) New members to be elected by the two Houses at a
joint sitting, so the Council will, to some extent, elect
itself.
(4) When there are (say) nine new M’s.L.C. to be
elected the Premier may nominate 12 candidates. Also,
the members of either House may nominate candidates
with these two provisoes—that there must be the signa-
tures of 30 members at each nomination paper, and no
member must sign more than four nomination papers. If
the two Houses contain 180 members in addition to the
Premier they may thus, by judiciously ringing the
changes, nominate 720 candidates, and the Premier’s 12
make 732.
(5) Any 30 members of either House may also put in a
written objection to any candidate, but no reasons must
be given.
((i) The 1,340,000 people outside Parliament are not
allowed to nominate anybody.
The Upper House which is to retire by Tatter-
sall’s lottery and partly re-elect itself is a really
great idea.
Editor Bulletin. Your recent article on
“Tied Houses” seems to understate the usurious-
ness of Sydney beer-monopolists. Yousay: “The
grasping brewer fixes up an agreement by which,
even when he gets his loan repaid, and there is no
need for further security, for there is nothing to
secure, the publican who once owed him money,
and every other publican who succeeds him as
long as the hotel exists (even if those other publi-
cans never owed him a copper) shall be bound to
buy from him, and from him only.” In Mel-
bourne, the purchase, so-called, of a “tied house”
entails obligations even more shameful than the
aforesaid. The small capitalist negotiating with
a brewery for the “purchase” of a small
pub., say the Dog’s Nose Hotel, is referred
to the landlord in his private capacity of
suburban mansionist, and the tony cormorant
states his terms. He will not “sell” the house
outright, even with the brewery conditions at-
tached. He insists upon retaining a nominal
mortgage of, say, £25 to begin with. Then, the
new tenant is bound down to buy his, or her,
tanglefoot from the brewery in which the precipus
landlord holds a private interest, and the price for
the probably inferior beer is ss. per hogshead
more than it can be purchased at by the licensee
of the rival “free” pub. across the road. So in
the case of the struggling publican who draws on
an average seven hogsheads per week this
lease-condition means an extra 355. per week
on the rent. Cash down will not avail
to buy the landlord’s beer at its fair market price,
no other beer is permitted on the premises. This
accursed extortion is practised in a country which
congratulates itself on Isaac Isaacs’ usury Bill,
and nobody raises a protest in Parliament, as far
as I know. The richer publicans, holders of un-
fettered hotels, are not less interested than the
brewers in maintaining a state of robbery which
prevents little people from accumulating capital
and making such improvements to their show as
would attract customers from the “free” traders.
Unable to prosper much by legitimate trading,
the licensee of a “tied” beer-shop is tempted to
resort to low-down tricks. Many a‘woman, under
these circumstances, degrades herself to some
extent in order to make “a decent living.”—
Melbourne Bung.
♦
When Attorney-G-eneral Wise was speaking in
the N.S. W. Leg. Council on the Industrial Arbi-
tration Bill he declared that employers working
under that Bill could not be afflicted by strikes,
and instanced Maoriland’s experience as an
example. Whereupon several of the more than
usually fat-headed members interrupted that,
even while lie was speaking, there were three
strikes going on in M.L. Had Dr. Cullen and
the dreary Kethel known anything about the
subject they would have spared that shining
remark. The existence of those three strikes in
M. is a mighty argument in favor of passing
the Bill for the protection of the employer. The
mines in question, to show their independence,
did not work under the Act. The owners, being
haughty Tories like Cullen and Kethel, deliber-
ately employed non-union labor, and now they
have their reward. With high prices ruling for
coal and a rising labor market, they are laid up
because they employed non-union labor, and not
owing to any fault or defect of the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act. Had their miners been unionists
they could have been cited before the Arbitration
Court and compelled to work at a fair and reason-
able wage based on the mines’ profits ; and failing
obedience to the decision, the mine-owners could
have recovered heavy damages from the union
funds. But it is impossible to enforce awards
against a number of isolated workers who have no
common fund that can be levied on in fines and
damages. For the express purpose of evading the
Act these mine-owners employed blackleg labor
only, and their own fetish of Supply-and-Demand
has got them down and is biting them. The
Arbitration law offered to save them from this
trouble, but they refused to be saved. Now,
owing to the boom in the dredging industry and
the increased number of people who are going on
the land under the Closer Settlement legislation,
. they cannot replace their strikers, who have
mostly gone to work on the dredges. But the
poor old N.S.W. doddering Leg. Council is always
the same —crawling along on all-fours 50 years
behind the Assembly, and mouthing with tooth-
less gums about things it is too senile to
comprehend.
♦
N. Wales Congregational Union set to work
t’other day to rend one of its members —Rev.
Bennett —for marrying in one year-for a Sydney
Matrimonial Agency 531 couples. The offender,
however, wasn’t as sorry as was expected, and
even went so far as to say that he had thus done a
lot of good in marrying people who otherwise
might have done worse. It looks, anyhow, as if
these matrimonial agencies supply a pressing
want; otherwise one of ’em wouldn’t bring toge-
ther nearly 4000 couples in 6 years in Sydney
alone. Whether clerical trade-unionism is wise in
attempting to put a stop to the business is a ques-
tion that only time can answer, but practically
such action amounts to putting an obstacle in the
way of marriage, which is—-according to the law-
courts —“contrary to public policy.” That view
of the matter is hereby commended to the notice
of N.S.W. Govt., which seems inclined to back-up
the ecclesiastical trade-unionists.
When the State Constitution Conventions meet—
it will have come to that, for no Parliament has
either right or power to build a new constitution,
which is what the case calls for—provision should
be made, in addition to the people’s Referendum,
for their Initiative. For instance, Maoriland
started giving Old Age Pensions years ago, and a
large majority in at least three Australian States
is fully persuaded of the justice and urgent
necessity of such legislation, but the incapable
politicians still twaddle and dally, and there
exists no means of compelling them to “get a
move on.” Similarly, had Melbourne been able
to force its legislators to take the matter out of
the tremulous hands of the two dozen mayors and
two dozen dozen councillors, it would have had a
Greater Melbourne Council working efficiently
long ago. The ball rolls fairly fast once started ;
the thing is to get someone to give the first kick—
and the people will have to learn to do that them-
selves.


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STAMDINR
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney; or to
G. G. McCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managers for Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building,- Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
ĥ
m
m.
7M/M,
ME
Sulphide Corporation
“ LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, a o n r d Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought—^
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Targe Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract,
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A. E. SAVAGE,
Manager.
GIBBS, BRICHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Macbeth."
Criterion “ The Black Flag.”
Theatre Royal “A Trip to Chicago.”
Tivoli . Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Grand Opera Season (Last nights)
Her Majesty’s “ The Rose of Persia.”
Theatre Royal “ The Absent-Minded Beggar.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Exhibition Oval Fitzgerald’s Circus.
Flinders-Street Wirth Bros.’ Circus.
Sundry transient revivals have been filling
in the week at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, prepara-
tory to the great production of “ Macbeth.”
“Magda” occupied two or three nights, and
“ Hedda Gabler,” “ Camille,” and “ Peg Woffing-
ton ” were also on the bill more or less.
“ Macbeth ” is due on Saturday night, and it is
understood that the old Scotch drama is to roar on
its native heath with unusual magnificence.
M‘Kee Rankin is cast for the hero whose fate was
so strangely influenced by an accidental meeting
with three old ladies who were camping out.
That Rankin is a fine large impressive actor goes
without saying, but he is rather a massive gentle-
man, and whether he will look active enough to
rush after a crown, at a period when crowns
took some rushing after, is a matter of
doubt. In those primitive days the crown went
to him who was fast enough to overtake
the man who had it, and having got it he kept it
till a faster applicant caught him up. Nance
O’Neil should be rather satisfactory as Mrs. Jane
Macbeth, or whatever the proper name was—
“ Lady” Macbeth sounds like an anachronism.
She has height and weight, and looks capable of
carrying a guilty secret without letting it drop.
It is understood that much money has been ex-
pended on the “Macbeth” revival, and that
Williamson has poured a whole barrel of sovereigns
into the spec. And all the same it is question-
able if there is any real demand for “ Macbeth ”
at present. People undoubtedly want to see Miss
O’Neil stalking through the old Scotch mist of
history, but that isn’t quite the same thing.
#* # «
At a late hour of the night The Buxee-
tin’s representative sits down under the hot glare
of a gas-jet that looks like the eye of an indignant
spinster relative, to speak with all the disrespect
there is on the premises about the newest Widow
O’Briemsm at Sydney Royal. Johnny Sheridan
has apparently played the Widow till she has
eaten into his soul. She has become part of him-
self, and he even sleeps nowadays in a strong
Irish accent. And the old, bright, spontaneous
widow of the “Bristol” having worn out in the
course of years, and Johnny having been that
female till it was too much trouble to be anything
else, an artificial widow has been laboriously con-
structed to go on with. The Irish lady of the
“ Trip to Chicago” is the familiar Bridget that
use! to be, hashed up again. She is obviously
older, and there is a feeling that she ought to be
wiser. Her increasing age is testified by the fact
that, instead of suppressing her young unmarried
daughter in New York, she is laboriously assault-
ing her son-in-law with an umbrella in Chicago.
She has degenerated into the old mother-in-law
joke, whichisthe saddest joke on earth, barringthe
joke about the Jew who wants to sell a second-
hand coat at a great sacrifice. In her original
capacity she had some kind of a story to tell, inas-
much as her two daughters wanted to marry with-
out her permission, and the father of a dreadful
son named Tommy wanted him to marry the
wrong daughter, or refused to let him marry
the right one; and a bogus count wanted to
marry the widow, and the black servant-girl had
a black baby whose father was a black Jeremiah,
and the infant had to be kept out of the way for
confused reasons that were of the same color as
itself. But now the widow labors all the way
from New York to Chicago to batter her son-in-
law with her gamp for some obscure and inade-
quate cause, and after she has pursued him twice
round the room the concern resolves itself un-
accountably into a variety show, and remains that
way till the end. There is a fine view of
Chicago in it; and an inflamed captain with
a wooden leg ; and a painfully wooden swind-
ler who wants to sell a salt-mine ; and a
flunkey who comes in every now and then to
ask where he shall put the luggage. Also Gracie
Whiteford wears a huge fair curly wig that com-
pletely extinguishes that bright little person, and
makes her look like one of Her Majesty’s Con-
densed Grenadiers with the ruins of his bearskin
hat painted yellow. Sheridan himself is in petti-
coats and a brogue and a thirst, as per usual ; and
when he drops being the widow for the time being,
and becomes an unshaven Juliet to Gracie White-
ford’s Romeo, his humor consists largely in lifting
his skirt somewhat higher than be used to lift it.
There is very little joy in any of these things.
** * *
“Robbery Under Arms” is going into
temporary obscurity at Sydney Criterion after this
week to make way for something about tbe
“ Black Flag.” It is too much to hope that a day
will ever come when “ East Lynne ” and “ Rob-
bery Under Arms ” will not break out occasionally,
and coming, as they have done of late, at a time
when the nation is inclined to get over-joyous on
the eve of celebrating its first birthday, the chas-
tening hand of Providence is doubtless concerned
in the business. Anyway, the bushrangers will
cease from ranging after this Friday.
** # *
At Sydney Tivoli, Eva Lee is trying to be
a poor Billie Barlow by making songful offers of
marriage to the audience, but if the mantle of the
departed Billie Elijah is to fall upon anyone, Eva
Lee is certainly not the Elisha best fitted to pick
it up. Tod Calloway does a sneezing song, while
Emmonds, Emmerson and Emmonds have re-
turned with a short dramatic sketch re a woman
who was understood to be inquiring after a lost
husband when in reality she mourned a vanished
pet dog, though the excessive grief of the lady
might have enlightened the audience earlier in
the evening. Also Lottie Collins never goes stale,
and her famous kick is a stroke of genius even
unto this day.
** * *
The Standard. Dramatic Co. has been en-
livening a certain portion of Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, with the tale of “ A Lancashire Lass ”
a lady who is, of course, wooed by a dissolute aris-
tocrat and by an honest workman with a scraggy
neck and a noble heart. The workman tells her
that he would lay down his life for her, but as he
stands a good way off, and does not supplement
his remarks by kissing her at the right moment,
she naturally inclines towards the bad man who
remembers to do these things, and writes a letter
consenting to an elopement. The letter comes
into the hands of her good but ungrammatical
father, whose education has fortunately been
neglected. However, hearing that the letter is
from his daughter he piously concludes that
there must be Shame connected with the
business ; he also invites everybody to stay
room so that they shall hear all about
the Shame. Evidently, some fathers are
built that way. The noble-minded lover has then
to read out the epistle, and does his only sensible
action by making up sentences wherein the
heroine repudiates the bad man with scorn. He
hasn’t the sense, however, to follow up his ad-
vantage by kissing the girl, so his fiance, in
despair, elopes by herself, and becomes companion
to a millionaire’s daughter. The hero then gets
drunk in a city pub. which is situated in the
bush, the entrance being through a pond (accord-
ing to the drop-scene). He sits in the pond with
another man, who is advertised as having done
his special drunk part 500 times. The play is also
helped by a curious girl, who complains that she
is bad because no one ever said a kind word to
her, and when somebody does she immediately
becomes much worse. The hero by-and-bye is
accused of drowning a man who afterwards turns
up alive. .He escapes to Australia, and lives for
five years in fear of the police, though, as the body
of the supposedly drowned man never turned up
(except later on as a live Australian bushman),
the accused, according to English law, wasn’t in
any danger whatever. After that the accusation
is lifted off him, and he and his re-united best
girl are left to struggle happily with the drought
and the rabbits.
*# * #
At the Princess’s all goes well with the
admirable orchestra, excellent chorus, and first-
class fittings of the Musgrove opera show. As re-
fards the company, a slight falling off in Miss
. iorraine’s voice is not more perceptible than the
improvement in Louis Arens’s tremulous tenor.
Otherwise the co. remains about as likeable and
otherwise as in the first weeks of the season. A
one-night revival of “ II Trovatore” gave Madame
Slapoffski the chance to repeat her Leonora, who
is a more satisfactory prima-donna than her stagey
Marguerite, and a last performance of “ Faust ”
revived the question as to why Miss Mary Lynne
was brought across many miles of saline waters to
play Siebel. “Carmen” and “Lohengrin” are
still going strong enough. Bizet’s lively opera,
with Salvi, Miss Janson, and ponderous Max
Eugene as principals filled the house again on
Saturday. Miss Janson doesn’t look the name-
part as (say) Emelie Melville looked it of yore,
but her sympathetic voice and whole-hearted
acting are admired all the time, whilst Salvi fits
the part of Don Jose in every respect. Manager
Musgrove, seemingly, has reconsidered his threat
of producing poor old “ Maritana ” this year. The
tuneful ‘ ‘ Bohemian Girl, ” however, will dream of
marble halls on Thursday (15th) and Saturday
this week. Also, the heart of her weary parent
will be bowed down at a matinee next Wednesday
(by request), but the advt. omits to state posi-
tively whether he is to repeat his grief in the
evening or have a night off. Three “Lohengrin”
and two “Carmen” performances will keep com-
pany with “ The Girl ” until Friday (23rd), and on
Saturday (24th) a varied programme brings the
curtain down.
** # *
Bland Holt’s huge dislocated melodrama
is banging away to crowded business at Melbourne
Royal thus far. Present writer learns that “ The
Absent-Minded Beggar ” has been pulled together
somewhat since Brown and Baker fought for their
dear old flag in Sydney, so one may confidently
assert that “ The Beggar ” in its edited state is
not the most foolish thing ever staged by Bland
Holt aforesaid. Nevertheless, it is a thing
to be deeply disrespected all the way
through, from the first act, which happens
in a hysterical flag factory, to the last
scene, where an unjustifiable Kruger hands the
keys of the Transvaal to Lord Roberts. Britain’s
boss warrior is supported on this fraudulent
occasion by two haughty mounted supers who pass
for Buller and Bad en-Powell, neither of whom
took part in the Pretoria gathering, anyhow. The
wonder is that Walter Baker was not told off to
lead the forces. Baker and the rest of the broken
narrative disappear from view towards the finish.
“ The Absent-Minded Beggar” excites no interest
m any of the surviving characters save a fragile
“ Mord ” who appears with an awful black eye in
the second act. Brown, after discoloring Mord’s
eye, goes to fight for the Empire, and finds a
hero’s grave, but as he makes no further reference
to the little woman he had stoushed in England it
looks as though Mord threw 'away her affections
without getting even a widow’s pension in return.
** * *
Melbourne shows have put in a joyful week
of horsey prosperity since last Bulletin, and up to
time of writing nothing new was thought neces
sary, with the exception of George D’Albert, at
the Bijou. Rickards’ latest greatest descriptive
vocalist strikes one as being an able, intelligent
member of the Godfrey school, who will make
himself generally respected when he shakes off the
effects of S’African war-fever, and adapts bis pro-
gramme to present surroundings. On Saturday,
he devoted a remarkable falsetto voice to “The
song which reached my heart.” This was a clever
performance in its way, and George’s final
top note knocked the audience consider-
ably. Nevertheless, the novelty of a man in
a swallow-tailed coat giving a serious imitation
of an emotional female balladist will need
cutting shorter if the warbler is to get
full credit for his effort. “The song which
reached ” is very stale and distressingly long.
Also his recitation entitled “The Relief of
Mafeking ” is a misguided illustration of George
D’Albert’s capacity for giving a semblance of
solid truth to a very fractured fiction. But seeing
that he is a spirited spokesman and actor, with
more than one tuneful warble to work upon, the
newcomer looks promising.
** * *
The last nights (for the present) of Billie
Barlow are mentioned on the bill, and the same
document states that the horizontal barmen are
reappearing for a limited season.
** * *
“The Rose of Persia,” with its pretty
dance music, agreeable girls and other incidental
effects, is proceeding till further notice at Her
Majesty’s. “ The Rose ” introduces a new brand
of unsoberness to public notice, but unfor-
tunately J. C. Williamson’s reconstructed
theatre has no bhang license, and so the shock-
ing example of Hassan’s drunk is wasted.
Bhang appears to be a highly commendable
intoxicant of revolutionary tendencies. If
the Sultan of Rose-in-Bloom were likely to
hold court in Exhibition-street many more
weeks The Bulletin would advise the Govern-
ment to subsidise a bhang distillery and open an
Oriental kiosk for the sale of that fleeting mad-
ness. It is probable, though, the present opera
will be replaced by “ The Old Guard ” or some
other old favorite ere a popular craving for bhang
has had time to get established.
** * *
The circuses talk in rather undecided
tones of folding up their tents and retiring from
Melbourne on the backwash of the Carnival. A
circus is a place of entertainment which has no
other tenant than itself to consider, and can
be easily persuaded to change its mind at
times. Perhaps Fitzgerald Bros, will hold on to
the Exhibition oval for a while longer than Satur-
day (17th), although the advt. names that date for
closing the show. Also Wirth Bros, announce
the last few nights of their airy habitation, where a
young lady from a local pub was due to enter the
tigers’ cage on Wednesday of this week. From
which The Bulletin concludes that the tigers are
not quite so forest-bred as was stated,
“ Aletes ” hol<Ts forth
Musgrove’s Opera Co. affects me diversely. For some
things, unreserved thanks; for others, silent acquiescence;
again, for others, open-mouthed amazement. It is a
veritable comet of a co., for it possesses a star of un-
doubted brilliancy allied to a very decided tail—were the
star not so bright, the tail, possibly, would not seem so
attenuated, but the ensemble would'be weaker still. The
mounting lacks nothing, the chorus is excellent, the
orchestra a thing of joy. The really inscrutable thing is
the selection of some of the principals. What on earth
possessed Musgrove to go so far abroad—he certainly was
abroad—when Australian talent (save the mark) could
have filled the bill ? In operatic drama, acting is gene-
rally below par, but the pity here is that those who
can’t sing act even worse, in some instances, than those
who can. The jumble of accents is distressing. A cos-
mopolitan atmosphere upsets the unity of tone. All
this is bad enough for Verdi, for Bizet, and for Gounod,
but—Shades of the Immortals I—how about poor old
Wagner ? Chorus and orchestra, with good setting, may
possibly pull through if the best, the few best, of the
principals alone are on board. But I fancy Wagnerian
opera is in for a troublesome time, and Melbourne is not
to be educated yet awhile. A tenor with falsetto notes,
a contralto with a voice full of wadding, and , and
are slender supports for the uprearing of a new edi-
fice ! One feels sorry for these people. Musgrove really
shouldn’t. But we must not quarrel with him. He has
given us the lowered pitch—the thin end of the wedge is
in—for that alone bend the knee in grateful acknowledge-
ment.
The Victorian general election introduced
21 members who were not in last Leg. Assembly.
Hawthorne, the youth who stuck up a
Vic. public-house, and who pleaded guilty, was
sentenced at Oastlemaine to six months’ gaol, the
last two days of each month in “solitary.” The
Judge explained the light sentence by remarking
that prisoner seemed to be of weak intellect. That
being so, why the solitary confinement ? O wise
J udge!
An Australian novelty, which may be
called the second-grade medical man, will be
established in N.S.W. if Dr. Nash’s new clause in
the Medical Practitioners Amendment Bill be-
come law. The clause provides registration on a
separate register of men who, though not pro-
perly qualified, can prove that they have passed a
course of study at some recognised college or
school, and have conducted a reputable prac-
tice in N.S.W. for 15 years prior to
the passing of the Act. These practi-
tioners (who, in the ordinary course of things,
must soon pass away) will have all the rights of
fully-qualified practitioners. The clause passed
the Council on the voices. It is estimated that
between 60 and 80 men, now practising, will go on
this second register. It is not likely that the
Assembly will object.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The same old fraud ! Westralia’s proposed new
loan for present financial year is £790,000. Of this
£590,000 is for various public works, and £300,000 for
interest. It is called “ discount on loans,” but discount
is interest, thoug-h it sounds better to call it by the other
name. Westralia’s credit is just about good enough to
enable it to borrow at 4 per cent. If it floated a 3 per
cent, loan it would probably get about £B4 for every £lOO
debenture. Therefore it would pay about £3 11s. sd. per
cent, interest immediately, and add the other Bs. 7d. per
cent, interest to the capital of the debt under the name
of discount. Recently when Westralia’s credit was only
good enough to enable it to float a short-dated loan at 5
per cent, it did a borrow for two years at 4 per cent,
and added the other 1 per cent, interest to the permanent
debt by accepting £9B for each £lOO Treasury bill. And
if Forrest had sold his Treasury bills at £94, he would
probably have been able to call it a 2 per cent, loan ; on
£1,000,000, the interest paid out of the Treasury would
have been £40,000 for the two years, and the interest
added to the permanent debt would have been £60,000.
It would have been just the same fraud on a rather larger
scale.
* * * *
Statistician Coghlan exhibits some remarkable
results in a return prepared to illuminate the N.S.W.
Municipalities Bill. If 5 per cent, of the unimproved
value of land is made the basis of local taxation he shows
that, in order to raise as much as it does on the existing
basis (taxation of improvements on rental value), Broken
Hill would need a rate of 3s. 4Jd. In the £. The next highest
is NarrabriWest,9d. andafraction ; the lowest, Bankstown,
a trifle over Jd. The huge tax that would be necessary
at Broken Hill is the result of most of the houses and ail
of the mines being still on Crown lands, and therefore
not liable to tax. And out of this a serious difficulty
may spring. All the people living on these lands at pre-
sent are ratepayers ; and there is nothing to prevent them
voting to introduce land-value taxation and thus passing
the whole of the taxes on to the comparative few with
freeholds. The mining co.’s would save thousands a year
if they could do that.
* * * «
Premier Lyne’s cleaning up of the N.S.W.
deficit proves to be only a wretched half-measure after all.
Australia is a country of compromises, half-measures,
fragments, loose ends, and unfinished circumstances and
oddments. The loose ends of N.S.W. finance at presebt
are the regular annual shortage on Reid’s accounts to
30th June, 1899 ; the regular annual shortage on Lyne’s
accounts (the plague and war shortage) to 30th
June, 1900; a certain sinking fund payment which
Reid seems to have carefully dodged ; tlie Centennial
Park deficit; the Martin Place resumption deficit (these
five items amount to £930,000) ; the deficit on the Civil
Service Superannuation Fund, and the shortage on the
Police Superannuation Fund (these last two items make
about £2,000,000). They are all there and all equally in-
evitable. Lyne’s new Treasury Bills measure provides for
adding only the first five (£930,000) to the great Accumu-
lated Deficit, and for increasing the annual payment
in reduction of the said accumulated deficit by £250,000.
In accordance with the Australian legislative tradition
that a thing should never be quite finished— the*doctrine
and tradition of Loose Ends—the two Superannuation
Fund deficits of £2,000,000 or so are left to provide
material for a fourth clearing-up later on. It would cost
no more to square them up now. They must be squared
some day. The same payment of £250,000 a year would
gradually wipe off the lot, and Lyne would get the
credit of being the man who cleaned everything up, and
would be able to point out, with emphasis, that the
shirking of these two great deficits of £2,000,000 or so
were some more of Reid’s fake methods of postponing
the evil day. And N.S.W. is very, very tired of seeing
another great slab added to the accumulated deficit—of
paying off half-a-million and then adding a million. It
wants to have its last clean-up and know the full size of
the trouble.
• * • »
The report recently submitted to Parliament
reckons that a complete system for the supply of elec-
tricity to Sydney and its suburbs can be constructed for
£1,450,000, and that the net profit will be £481,000 per
annum. Apropos of which : will the Lyme Government
insert a clause in the Bill, when it appears, to the effect
that the profit, whatever it is, shall be devoted, in the
first place, to paying off the money borrowed for the
construction of the electric supply system, and when that
is done, that it shall be utilised solely towards the re-
demption of the public debt ? This would be a wilder
novelty than if the O’Sullivan painted himself blue and
ran through Sydney in the guise of an ancient Briton, and
novelty of any kind is better than the dead abject level
of stagnation.
• * * *
A proposal put before the N.S.W. Pastoral
Lands Commission in the Far West, and worth thinking
over, relates to improvements on newly-selected lands.
The squatters’ complaint is that the selector is not able to
give him good enough security for payment of money due
for improvements already made on the country ; therefore
he tries to keep the selector off. The proposal is that the
State should guarantee payment for such improvements,
and should charge the selector rent for them (together
with a sinking fund) as well as for the land. Recent
legislation allows the State to charge rent for improve-
ments which are its own property ; and the provision,
which has been found of great assistance, suggests this
extension.
* * * *
T’other day the Sydney usurers and other
money-lenders met in solemn conclave to decide upon a
plan of united opposition to N.S.W.’s new Money Lending
Bill. What a physiognomic stud.y must there have been
in that gathering ! It is rumoured that one proposal was
to —well, to practically buy as many of the Lower
House members as possible. But here is the humor of it.
When it came to the question of “ planking down the
necessary ” there was a lack of unanimity. The shent-
per-shenters who most fear the Bill “ came down hand-
somely” (because it would pay), while of course the
smaller and less usurious lenders were not so apparently


J IKK IT
or HEALTH
lAndyou Derive
PIE^SUI^
ORIHKIT
for Pleasure
Ahd You Acquire '
Health
THt
GREAT
AUSTRALIAN
NATURAL
MINERAL
kWATER.
zetz-spa Proprietary Limited
SYDNEY.'
Pcbaecc#
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
HAVY AUD WAR OFFICE.
h
“ THE FINEST -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD ”
PACKED IN 4, 2 & t oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros, & Co., Ltd., Liverpool. Agents; I, Rutty & Co., Sydney,
The City Leader, London, July 28, 1900,
writes regarding the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society : “ It is claimed, and justly so, that the Society,
at the end of the twenty-sixth year of its existence,
shows a progress rarely, if ever, achieved by any life
assurance office in its early years.*
• * * *
The North Silver Mine, at Broken Hill, has
just adopted the Wilfley concentrating tables in connec-
tion with their plant. The sole manufacturers, the
Austral Otis Engineering Co., Ltd., South Melbourne,
inform us that the Wilfley Tables have now been adopted
by all the Broken Hill co.’s except the British and Block
10 co.’s. The table is rapidly proving itself the most
efficient and easily-managed concentrator yet produced.*
* * * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucuu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have been
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up-
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machines
which have proved most successful on the difficult fines
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “Luhrig” Vanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. &
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill will
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de-
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would do
well to follow this good example.*
# * ♦ *
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
• * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * • **
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Pootscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work. *
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites', price Is. 3d. post free. *
* • *
In N.S.W., Vic., and some other provinces the
chief function of the inspector of mines is to keep miners
out of rotten workings. S.A., though, seems to think
that his principal duty is to keep investors and specula-
tors out of duffers. The recent fillip to copper-mining on
Yorke’s Peninsula has, however, been followed by an in-
crease in the number of accidents ; and between the two
a vigorous and much-needed agitation has been set going
for a local inspector for Wallaroo and Moonta, with in-
structions to do what inspectors do elsewhere.
_»• » *
The old Victorian Oxley diggings will shortly
be the scene of bucket-dredging operations. The Buck-
land River was one of the richest of Vic. alluvial fields,
and tests made of the value of old headings and tailings
gave a return of 12gr. per cubic yd. The Buckland River
Gold Dredging Co., N.L., has over 200 ac. of ground,
largely virgin, and anticipates a prosperous career. The
dredge which is being placed on the ground has a working
capacitv of over 14,000 cubic yds. per week. The secre-
tary of the co., at 12 Post Office Chambers, Pitt-st.,
Sydney, will be pleased to forward copies of the expert’s
reports to any reader.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Zinc Shavings, Crucibles, Caustic Soda,
Borax, Litharge, Carbonate of Soda, etc.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM.
Naptha, Benzine and RACKAROCK.
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel. ; 27 Eagle-strc
Brisb. ; and at Christchurch, Duwdin, Wellington, an I
Auckland, NZ.
AUSTRALIAN METAL GO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/tOO per cent,
pure)) Bleaching Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, etc.
liberal. They so higgled and haggled over the “ parting ”
that the meeting ended higgledy-piggledy. Hence indi-
vidual opposition will be brought against the Bill.
Writer knows one much-squeezed M.P. who has already
been anproached bv his particular shark. Though at
heart lie’s all with the Bill it means that he has at least
to absent himself from the Chamber while It la under dis-
cussion.
* * * *
Curious how quietly the defeat of the A.M.P.
extension scheme passed over. A few lines in the daily
papers giving the figures, a mild note of surprise from
the directors, and the thing was over. The majority of
six figures secured by the issuing of the unfair and mis-
leading proxy-forms was changed into a respectable
minority when the facts were put before the voters. Yet
1 1 >ugh polling-day was some weeks ago, and the results
were published soon afterwards, many people are still
ignorant of the defeat of the agitation.
• • • •
The fifth annual report of the Australian Metro-
politan Life Assurance Co. of Brisbane (to 31st August,
1900) compares with some previous returns as follows
Expenses
Claims including Added to
Total and Shareholders’ Assurance
Revenue. Surrenders. Dividend. Fund.
1896 .. .. ■ • ■ • £250
1897 .. £4540 £133 £2754 1653
1593 .. 6393 751 4423 1219
1899 . 7252 992 5102 1158
1900 .. 9356 1277 5934 2175
£6,455
Added to book value of Property (say) .. 10,095
Alleged amount of Assurance Fund .. £16,550
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance Co. bought
an office-building for a little over £14,000, and immedi-
ately put it down in its balance-sheet as worth £24,500,
in consequence of which the assurance fund is now
£16,550, as shown above, instead of £6455 as it otherwise
would have been. And if the co. had also bought a kero-
sene-tin for 6d., and put it in the balance-sheet as worth
£107,523, the assurance fund would now be £124,073.
Tiib Bulletin has no evidence that the building, bought
for £14,000 odd, is not worth £24,500, so the kerosene-tin
is doubtless an extreme illustration. But man is liable
to a sanguine view of his own assets, and the building
which increases suddenly in value just when the increase
is badly wanted to fill a gap in the finances of an old co.,
or to give an imposing appearance to the finances of a new
one, is a darned considerate building.
* * * *
The expenses of the Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Co. for the past four years have compared
with total income as follows :
1897 .. £6O 13 2 per cent. 1899 .. £7O 7 7 per cent.
1898 .. 69 3 8 per cent. 1900 .. 63 4 5 per cent.
These are enormous figures, though the percentage is
hardlv so high as it was last year. The business, it is
true, is partly of the expensive industrial character,
though it doesn’t appear how much of the income is
derived from industrial, and how much from ordinary
assurance. The two should certainly be kept separ-
ate. But even making all allowance for this, it
seems a very expensive kind of business. The gross in-
come from interest and rents is set down at £1202 equal
to £4 7s. lOd. per cent, on the average gross assets.
This seems to suggest that the co. was justified in writing
up its building to some extent, though it does not suggest
that it was justified in writing up that asset to
quite the extent that it did. The Australian
Metropolitan seems to exist, like many other pro-
prietary institutions, largely for the benefit of the
shareholders who vote themselves a 10 per cent, divi-
dend regularly. They hadn’t even the consideration
to wait for the actuarial investigation, and ascertain first
if there was any surplus t 6 pay the dividend out of; they
just grabbed it and let the policy-holders take their
chance. The actuarial investigation is now in progress.
When the report appears it will be interesting to discover
if there is a surplus of £lO,OOO or so. for if there isn’t, the
natural inference is that only the kindness of the building
in being worth so much above the purchase price saved
the assurance fund from showing a deficit.
* * * *
A few days ago a Sydney daily published a
report of a lecture by Mr. James Marshall on the
advantages of insuring in his cheap life assurance society
—the Independent Order of Foresters of Canada, now
doing business in Australia, to Australia’s misfortune so
far as this paper can see. His principal statements were
condensed as follows : “They had now, in the accumu-
lated funds, £838,581, and that after paying out nearly
two million pounds. When dominated by Americans the
order was an assessment society. That had been done
away with, the whole framework reorganised, and the
present successful scheme adopted. No bonuses or
«Surrenders ’ were tolerated in the Order, added to
which the expenses of management being as small as 5
percent., the society was able to charge the exceedingly
low rate of premium advertised. ‘ The great bulk
of our people are our agents,’ Mr. Marshall con-
tinued, “and the vast scope of our operations makes us
in reality an international nrotherhood. We think our-
selves better than the best of insurance companies.”
They had been subjected to considerable criticism, ex-
plained the speaker, but it was only the outcome of
jealousy and keen rivalry.
The Bulletin doesn’t want to see Australia put
its money into any brotherhood without knowing what
kind of brotherhood it is, so it makes these comments in
r Tlf The mere fact of having £838,581 doesn’t amount to
a row of pins. Six Australian societies have much more
than that. The only question is : Are the funds,
whether they are £BO,OOO or £Boo,ooo_ or £8,000,000, fully
equal to the present value of the liabilities. And accord-
ing to the valuation, as at 31st December, 1897, published
on page 391 of the Review (Sydney financial paper) for
July, the life assurance and sickness funds of the 1.0. F.
were then £518,724, and the liability against these funds,
on the ordinary assumption that the 1.0. F.. paid etW its
existing policies in full and. didn’t increase its premium
rates, was £7,159,342. The result certainly looks like an
awful shortage of over six millions (£6,640,618) or more
than twelve times the entire fund.
(2) The 1.0. F. says it can give cheap life assurance
because its expenses are kept down to 5 per cent. On
same page of same paper it published these results
Five years (Ist January, 1893, to 31st December, 1897)
Total Income (Pre- Total Expenses
miums, Interest, (Management,
&c.) .. ..£1,086,771 Legislation,
Commission) .. £99,084
That isn’t 5 per cent., but over £9 2s. per cent. And for
the next year (1898) the balance-sheet, published on page
393 of same Review, set forth that the life department’s
income was £381,267, while “expenses of management”
and “ contingencies ” were £36,569, or over £9 12s. per
cent. And in the face of these figures the management
still brags that it keeps its expenses down to 5 per cent.
(3) The fact that no surrender values are given simply
means that, if a man, after paying his premiums faith-
fully for 20 years, misses one payment, there is no reserve
fund attached to his policy, as In Australian offices, to
keep it from lapsing. One act of forgetfulness may de-
prive him and his family of everything; The absenoe of
surrender values is nothing to boast of;
(4) The 1.0. F. claims, in a certain printed document that
the writer has before him, that it does pay bonuses. It
has never paid a bonus, and there is no visible prospect of
al (5) There are “ court dues ” to pay as well as premiums,
consequently the cheapness isn’t so cheap as it looks.
According to the printed documents winch writer has
before him, a man aged 20 can insure in the 1.0.*. tor jbiuu
without bonuses (it may be so regarded, for there nave
never been any bonuses, and there is no visible prospect
of any) for £ll2s. 6d. a year (£1 premium, of which ap-
parently about 2s. goes in expenses, leaving 18s. to pay
for the assurance ; and 12s. 6d. a year court dues, which
goes for some purpose not clearly specified). On top oi
this he has to pay ‘entrance fee. The same man can in-
sure for £lOO without bonuses in the A.M.P. for £1 as.
lOd. year, of which about 2s. lid. goes in expenses,
leaving £1 ss. lid. to pay for his assurance. He pays less,
yet there is nearly Bs. more left out of it to cover the
actual cost of insurance, and that makes his assurance a
lot more certain to be paid when it falls due. Also the
A.M.P. charges no entrance fees. .
(6) Also the 1.0. F. reserves the right to increase the pre-
miums at any time. Therefore, it seems that a man
might pay his premiums regularly for 20 years, and then
be confronted by the alternative of paying a vastly in-
creased premium, which he possibly couldn t afford, or
dropping out, and losing everything, for no surrender
values are given.
(7) In 1898, the last year for which the 1.0. F. s accounts
appear to be available here, that concern spent a larger pro-
portion of its total income in expenses and contingencies
than the A.M.P. did, and it earned a lower rate of interest
on its funds than the A.M.P. did, And with lower inter-
est coming in, and higher expenses going out, it can t
give such good value for every £1 invested with it as the
A.M.P. does. This is quite irrespective of the fact
that the man who insures in the 1.0. F. now seems to
thereby make himself a partner in a very large deficit
already existing, and takes the risk of having his pre-
miums indefinitely increased. .
(8) And the local representative of this dreadful con-
cern says that the criticism it has met with arises out of
jealousy and keen rivalry. Well, The Bulletin doesnt
run a life assurance office, so there is no rivalry m its
case anyhow.
* * * *
The Perpetual Executors and Trustees Associa-
tion (Melbourne) issues a rather improved balance-sheet
for year ended 31st October, 1900 :
Oontin- Other
gencyFund Reserves Dividends,
at at
each date, each date.
1891 .. £18,254
Profit.
1892 £3,191 18,445 10 per cent. = £3,000
1893 .. 1,423 17,468 8 „ 2,400
Loss.
1894 .. 204 16,064 4 „ = 1,200
1895 .. 197 £5,900 9,967 Nil
Profit.
1896 85 6,223 52 Loss written off = 9677
1897 957 6,057 607 „ „ = 568
1898 .. 211 5,992 818 „ „ = 65
1899 .. 1,265 5,748 1,028 {Wntterfoff = 924
1900.. 1,826 6,636 1,191 off - ? 25
Profit £8,557 Divs.,&c. £18,984
The Perpetual Executors and Trustees Association states
openly that a considerable amount of its assets are merely
“ book value,” but it is impossible to form an estimate,
based on the return derived from said assets, as to their
present real values, or as to how far these differ from the
hook prices. The Association lumps interest on invest-
ments and all other sources of revenue together, thereby
obscuring the question of values altogether. But the
£6636 at credit of contingency fund should be sufficient
provision for all losses, in which Case the actual net
reserves consist of £ll9l undivided profit. This is a con-
siderable fall as compared with the reserves of 1891.
Still, the profit is much larger than it has been for seven
years, and, if the dividend is kept low, the institution
should speedily rise from its recent depressed state. But
it wants very different management from that of the last
boom-time. The system which was oontent with a paltry
reserve of £18,000", and which paid away practically all
the profits in 10 per cent, dividends, can’t stand repeti-
tion.
* * * *
The Adelaide Life Assurance and Guarantee
Co. which completed its 34th year on 30th June, 1900, is
a rather curious affair. It abandoned active life assur-
ance business many years ago, and in that department it
is merely waiting for its last policy-holder to die. It still
does a guarantee assurance business, but _ that also
seems to be gradually fading away. In the life depart-
ment it apparently pays no bonuses now ; there is proba-
bly no need to do so, as there is no desire to attract new
business. All the interest received from the funds of the
life assurance department, less the small working ex-
penses, are grabbed by the shareholders as profit. One
very remarkable fact is that the Adelaide co.’s life
assurance fund is now actually more than the whole
amount insured under its policies, so there should be
a fine large sum to divide among _ the share-
holders —presumably they will come in for the
surplus when the last policy-holder dies. The
life assurance fund now amounts to £37,711 while if
all the policy-holders fell down dead to-day the claims
would total only £31,900. And the co. has still an income
of £7Bl a year from life premiums so that the surplus is
steadilv increasing. It may grow till there is £20,000, or
more than twice the paid-up capital, to share out when
the last insured ceases to cumber this globe. As already
mentioned the whole income from interest on the invest-
ment of the life assurance fund (less a small sum for ex-
penses) is taken by the shareholders. For the year ended
30th June, 1900, the net profit was £2242, out of which the
shareholders paid themselves 15 per cent, on their capital
of £lO,OOO. They have had a regular 15 per cent, dividend
for many years now, and they will probably get a very
much larger one by-and-bye, judging by the way the life
fund is increasing. These shareholders never put up
enough capital to supply anything very large in the way
of security for the life policy-holders, and the amount
that has been paid in dividends in return for what little
security was given is something enormous. As far as
Australian experience goes proprietary life assurance is a
very good thing—for the shareholders.
9|e * * *
The County of Bourke Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne) presents its second
balance-sheet (to 15th Sept., 1900) since it resumed active
business, and shows a material improvement. This con-
cern made an arrangement with its creditors in the bad
times, and for a number of years all its earnings went to
pay off losses. The old reserves went the same way, like-
wise about £67,000 of the capital. Then the society,
having practically paid-off its old depositors in full, re-
sumed business with a paid-up capital of about £98,000
and a contingency-fund of £9660. In the two years since
the resumption of business things have gone as follows
Recoveries and
Profit profits on pro-
on perky sales Total Dividends.
ordinary above income.
business, written-down
value.
1899.. £4,888 .. £1,746 .. £6,634 .. 6 p.c. =£5,889
1900.. 6,010 .. 1,861 .. 7,871 .. 6 p.c.= 5,889
£10,898 £3,607 £14,505 £11,778
This leaves the County of Bourke Permanent Building
and Investment Society with a new reserve oE £272. (new
reserve fund, £2500, arid undivided profit, £227) accumu-
lated within the two years ended 15th September, 1900.
There Is also £9360 of the old contingency fund (which
was established out of written-off capital) still remaining.
But the fact that calls for particular attention is that the
actual earnings of the business for the two years were
only £10,898, while the dividends absorbed £11,778. In
1898 the Society wrote down its properties out of capital
to what seemed then actual values. Owing to the revival
in business at Melbourne £3607 of this lost capital has
been recovered, and this sum should most certainly have
been all put to reserve fund, or to a special fund for the
purpose of reinstating the lost capital. By treating it as
ordinary profit and using £BBO of it for dividend-paying
purposes the management has, to that extent, paid divi-
dends out of capital. Said management speaks with
pride of its careful policy in putting £2500 to reserve and
carrying £227 forward out of the £3607 written-off capital
which has been recovered. Certainly this year the divi-
dend has been more than covered by ordinary earnings,
but last year’s doings were simply an extravagant effort
to pay 6 per cent, before the circumstances anything
like justified it.
* * * »
The Bulletin has before it a rather remarkable
letter, issued by what is called “the Chancery Estates
Recovery Advance and Investment C 0.,” which states
that its “head office” is at 126 Phillip-street, Sydney,
with “branches and agencies throughout the world.
The manager is described as B. Cooke. It is addressed
to on e —well, call him Blenkinsop. It sets forth that
money (amount not stated : it may be £5 or £lOOO or any
other amount) has been lying for a long time in the name
of (say) Blenkinsop, unclaimed. Where it is lying isn t
mentioned, but it is devoutly to be hoped that it isn’t lying
out in the rain. And this (say) Blenkinsop can have
“ short particulars ” (how short isn’t specified) if he sends
6s. and a stamp. It would be interesting to know a few
things about this, say: the capital of the Chancery Estates
Recovery Advance and Investment Co. ; how much of it
is paid up ; how many shareholders there are ; who are the
directors ; where the branch offices are, seeing that this is
the head office ; how long the co. has existed, and how
many estates it has recovered. And then it would be
very interesting to know whether, supposing there is
money lying unclaimed in the name of Smith (one would
think there must be money lying unclaimed in the name
of Smith), all the Smiths are written to and invited to
send ss. for short particulars. There seem to be many
interesting possibilities about the Chancery Estates
Recovery business. Chancery is vaguely supposed to be
full of large unclaimed estates, though this paper never
knew of anybody who got any estates out of it. Perhaps
they are so large that they got jammed in the doorway.
* * * *
A startling and circumstantial series of anony-
mous libels on a certain Sydney Insurance Co. has of
late been extensively circulated through the post.
Among other classes, a copy has been received by nearly
every member of N.S.W. Bar. Is the thing an elec-
tioneering matter ?
* * * *
It is beginning to be seriously debated whether
London is still the world’s financial centre, and whether
the great money-market isn’t shifting to New York.
Britain sold a great part of its recent war-loan in the
States, and quite a number of European loans, that used
to go to London as a matter of course, are now floated
there —the Swedish one being the latest.
* * * *
A proposal is on foot to combine most of the
copper shows at Wertago, outside Wilcannia, with a view
to putting down a good test shaft, and providing neces-
sary' ore-reducing machinery. It is the most sensible
thing proposed on the field so far.
Occidental (Cobar) has now 50 stamps at work
on the usual sort of dirt. Besides going in for develop-
ment, it has paid six 3d. divs. this year. Cobar Gold
Mines, near by, which has been belting away with 100
stamps for the last 14 or 15 months, will pay divs. when
it gets its filter-press outfit, now on the way from Ger-
many, at work on the mine’s accumulation of Bdwt.
slimes.
• • * •
The prospects of the Gundagai, N.S.W. lode on
which Robinson and Rice’s rich mine is located increase
daily by leaps and bounds. The line threatens to prove
one of the very richest of all N.S.W. discoveries.
Last year, according to N.S.W. Mines Depart-
ment’s statistics only just now available, 1,399,009 tons of
ore was raised from all Broken Hill mines, besides 366,156
cubic yards of refuse; 279,448 cubic yards of “mullock”
was used for filling in worked-out ground, 13,586,572
super, ft. of timber was used underground, £568,010
worth of machinery was employed, and 195 tons of high
explosives were used.
• • . • *
Westralia begins to find that every silver lining
has a cloud; and Yosper was encouraged by “ hear hears ”
all round when he urged the W.A. Attorney-General
t’other night to add a clause to his Health Act Amend-
ment Bill compelling owners of smelting furnaces to take
steps to minimise the evil effects arising from noxious
fumes. N.S.W. passed a Bill to do that in the interests
of the Broken Hill people, and it answered admirably ;
and now South Australia needs to follow suit.
* * * *
Lucky and plucky Frank H. Gardner, now
well enough known to sail without the one-time necessary
tag “ Carrie Swain’s husband,” has the advantage of Zeb.
Lane’s advice in Westralian plunges.
* * * *
What the superstitious folk of 100 years ago
would have regarded as a happy omen was found recently
at the head of the Mary River, near Kimberley, W.A.
This is a flat gold nugget, an exact reproduction of the
map of Australia, with Tasmania joined to the mainland
by an isthmus, as was once the actual fact. It measures
3 by 4Jin., and weighs 230 z. sdwt. Intrinsic value about
£lOO, but as an authentic curio, discovered at the time of
the union of all Australia, it is possibly worth much
more.
• • • •
So far no fewer than 16 Westralian go’s, have
knuckled down to the Australian Gold Recovery Co., and
agreed to pay royalty for using cyanide.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie has now 10 mines producing over
IOOOoz. a month.
* » * *
Isolated W.A. Mines : G. W. Hall, representa-
tive of several of them, has been saying big things about
them in London, but it is so hard to say bad things about
a mine, and so easy to say nice things when entertained
at dinner by shareholders at the Hotel Cecil, that pro-
bably it is well to take Hall’s yarns with just about as
much salt as was consumed on the occasion. Un-
doubtedly there are some splendid mines—with big dis-
tances between them—outside the Golden Mile in
W.A., but it is doubtful if G. W. Hall has secured more
than one of them. If he has, his luck is phenomenal.
Teesdale Smith, general manager of the Millar
Timber Co., of Westralia, lately got back from England,
whither he went to try to arrange a big jarrah and karri
“combine.” There are nearly a dozen co.s in the busi-
ness; and there isn’t enough business to go round and
pay a fraction on the huge capital represented. Several
of the concerns have reconstructed. Others are only
hanging on in the hope that the rest will drop off, and as
several look very like doing the latter act, there wasn’t
much enthusiasm among the stronger co.s in favor of a
scheme for putting the weaker ones on their legs. The
Millar Co.’s proposal was to form & new co. of £2,500,000
capital, letting the existing co.s pool their interests for
£2,000,000, and asking the public for the other half-mil-
lion “ for development purposes.” But though negotia-
tions are still going on, the haggling over the division of
the two millions seems likely to end nowhere in parti-
cular.
The general manager of Millar’s Jarrah and
Karri Co. aforesaid doesn’t seem to see much hope for the
lately-expected big business in the supply of Australian
hardwoods for. paving—anyhow, under present condi-
tions. Where they have been tried they have been laid
so green that strips of pine have had to be inserted in
the shrinkage-spaces on some works ; and in consequence
American “ red-gum ” has become the favorite paving-
wood. But, like a good bagman and philosopher in one,
the Millar manager adds : “ And that’s just as well; for
Westralian timbers are too good for paving. The way in
which they work up is astonishing those who have seen
our exhibit at Paris.”
• • * *
Sam Mitchell, now M.P. for Geraldton, and,
years ago, manager of the Northampton lead and copper
mines, has carried through W.A. Assembly a mol on in
favor of establishing a State smelter somewhere in
Geraldton district, and the Govt, looks like doing the
work. There are many copper and lead shows scattered
about the country; a number of them are reported good,
and the only question is whether, without concentrating
appliances, they are not too remote. To the end of last
year the Westralian Govt, had erected 10 gold batteries,
but no smelting plant.
* • * •
Towers Oct. calls, £3BOO ; divs., £38,000.
* * * *
“ Pickaxe ” : “ Trotter ” (B. 6/10/’00) is a lot out
about the Disraeli gold mine, which is not more than half-
a-mile from Burdekin River. There was a 20-head battery
—not 40. The railway amounted to a tram-line quarter
mile long, and was worked by horse. “The gold was
there too, but, owing to errors, cost more than worth.
Who says so but “ Trotter ” ? The battery was on tribute
a good part of the time (co. getting 6s. a ton), crushing
old mullock-tips, which shows that, if “ the gold was
there,” the stone tvasn’t. The whaleboat and anchor
yarn, too, is ancient —have heard the same pitch many
times here. Correct about Thompson taking property
up and getting outsiders to work it, but it’s all rot about
the co. not sinking a shaft. I worked in the shaft to the
last. Was 1000 ft. on the underlie. What does “ Trotter
call a shaft ? The smarty who introduced the show to
London-notice was Pritchard Morgan.
( Continued on page 25.)


Comple t
Outfits
AN ORIENT BOOT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT—
-63/-
TO MEASURE
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
‘Orient To measure’’ Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and. Patterns.
DAVID JONCS & COMPANY,
<s*orgs & Barrack St£., Sydosy.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
ijockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
> s afc.-t, best, restores the natural color. Loek-
yer's, the real English Hair Restorer. Largo
bottles Is. everywhere.*
SOCIETY
The letter received by Sydney University
Senate from Gov. Tennyson and Prof. Morris,
asking co-operation to obtain for Australian
students the right of candidature for appointments
to the British—including the Indian—Civil Ser-
vice, is likely to have far-reaching effects. The
British and Indian fields are not only wide, but
studded with prize billets, and as Australians love
Govt, billets a whole new world will lie open
before them.
* * * *
Probably the best of the good effects of
the bubonic plague has just passed away, leaving
nothing but a platitudinous “can’t” on N.S.W.
Govt. lips. While the plague killed its daily Syd-
neyite, Premier Lyne proclaimed the imperative
need of a crematorium, and promised that he
would at once provide this safe substitute for
the dangerous churchyard. But the plague is
resting, and Lyne, thinking it dead and buried
like its victims at North Head, refuses to provide
money for a crematorium. “loan’t,” he says;
“ £5OOO is a ton of money.” But Premier Lyne
can afford to cable for (say) 20,000 bottles of cham-
pagne, to lubricate at Treasury expense the necks
of the Australian Naicest and those of the rotters
—most of them —labelled “distinguished visi-
tors. ”
MATURE INNOCENCE.
AUNTIE (high-dried relic of a by one age): "My dear child, Mr. told me to-day that he
tho ught you were, my bister”
NIECE (up-to-date): “Oh, auntie! what fun! Why, he must have been ‘pulling your leg.’”
AUNTIE (aghast at her Literalness): “ You dreadful girl!—let me tell you that in all my life
no man has ever dared”
Gov. Hopetoun, says Premier Lyne, is to
land at Farm Cove, “near Cavill’s Baths.” And
the gross public is to be excluded from the Gar-
dens, and possibly also from the Domain. But
you bet all the Nicest People will be there,
getting a thirst for the “wines specially cabled
for from London for the celebration.” Yes, we
live in a democratic community, thank Heaven !
And what would we be without our Labor party?
* * * *
Re the Commonwealth celebrations.
Sydney has evidently decided to spend a vast
amount of the money of N.S.W. in general on a
purely Sydney celebration, for its own special and
individual benefit. The irony of the situation is
that Sydney did all that was possible to wreck the
Constitution it is now going to lavishly celebrate,
while the rest of N.S.W., which saved the measure
from destruction, will have to pay the biggest part
of Sydney’s grog-bill, and will get no State money
to fool away in crackers and hogwash in its own
towns.
* * * *
“A proposal to erect a bronze tablet,
recording the names of the aldermen forming the
last council prior to the introduction of a demo-
cratic franchise, was negatived by City Council
yesterday.” Why- not also commemorate in
bronze, or brass, the most stinkful cellar in the
late Sydney bubonic plague area ? The Bulletin
wants a new and more eloquent language wherein
to deal with proposals of this sort. The putrid
vanity of a large section of aldermanism is too
stinkful to be effectively handled by any tongue
but one in which every syllable consisted of a
quart of carbolic acid.
• * * *
Despite the sensible protest of some of the
aldermen, Sydney City Council has decided to
spend nearly £2OO on a gold casket to contain the
Council’s address of welcome to the Governor-
General. The dissentients —headed by Alderman
Barlow—have clearly not the true aldermahie
hankering after mere vulgar costliness. They
haven’t the proper splashiness of soul!
A new rule on some Melb. tram
lines forbids the gripman to stop the
tram, if hailed, until he gets to the
cross-street. This is a rule m the
right direction. No intelligent person
can show any good cause why trams
should not have regular stations for
putting down and taking up passen-
gers. What is gained by not restrict-
ing the power of the tram-hailer !
The bailer is, as a rule, a woman who
has been waiting some minutes for the
car when she might have walked
quietly along to the nearest given
spot where the gripman would stop
without the threatening summons of
a red parasol.
* * * ■
Speaking at the recent annual
festival of the C. of E. Society, in
Sydney, Rev. Canon Pain ■ pointed
out that, whereas in the diocese of
Sydney only 69 clergymen were
working, the diocese of Salisbury, in
England—with about an equal area
and population— has 653 parsons at
work. After all, Sydney has much to
be thankful for!
* * *
A N.S. W. teacher, when asked
if he would accept a certain school, re-
plied, “Yes, if you have nothing
better to offer me. ” He heard later on
that some one else had been appointed, and, upon
writing to ask the reason, was told, “The De-
partment does not recognise conditional accept-
ances.”
* * * *
The Old Age Pensions Bill, as presented
to N.S.W. Parliament, contains three clauses of
portentous extravagance. One disqualifies appli-
cants who have been imprisoned during the past
12 years for a period of four months ; another dis-
qualifies persons imprisoned for five years within
the past 25 years; and the third disqualifies the
man who “at any time” has deserted his wife for
six months, or the woman who has deserted her
husband. What has the Govt, or public to do
with the ancient history of hoary derelicts ? Fairly
good conduct at his present age, and the penalties
laid down in the Bill for offences committed after
the granting of the pension certificate, are as
much as the community has a right to insist on.
■*■***
Concurrently with the enactment in N.S.
Wales of an Old Age Pension system a law com-
pelling well-to-do sons to contribute to the sup-
port of their indigent parents should be enforced.
Many now pay nothing, and the old men have to
be maintained at State expense. Again, many
sons now pay a small weekly dole, but will with-
hold it as soon as the State pension is available.
* * * *
Sydney D. Telegraph, Nov. 7 :
T ADY who was rude to gent, in Woollahra ’bus
Tues. afternoon wishes to apologise. Doreen,
G.P.O.
I ADY, 25, educated, wishes corres. gentleman, over
30, view hasty marriage. R., Erskineville P.O.
Evidently two women want to repent at leisure.
* * • *
S.M. Herald advt.:—
~Y\? ANi’ED, Man to drive rubbish cart; must be
sober, from 8 to 10 a.m. 39 Graf ton-street,
Woollahra.
3urely this is not asking too much of any man.
The Melbourne money-lenders must surely
oe all “ broke ” for a gentleman to offer so high a
price for a little temporary accommodation —Age
idvt. (5/11/’00) :
/GENTLEMAN, young, present monetary etnbar-
' rassed misfortune, good position for life, strict-
est investigation, desires acquaintance young widow,
spinster, with home and small means. Apex, Agk.
* f * *
They are a friendly, sociable people in
Melbourne. A gentleman, prosecuting another
for assault at a local court lately, said that
accused had called at his house one evening to see
his wife, with whom he (accused) had been living
for some time, but who had grown tired of her
“ boy,” and had returned to the nuptial couch.
As the lady declined to receive his renewed atten-
tions, the ex-lover got annoyed at the husband's
exclusive possession of his darling, and rebuked
him with a quantity of road metal. A really neigh-
borly community !
* * * *
Cabled that Lord Roberts declares that
the men under his command have shown them-
selves “ heroes on the battlefield and gentlemen
everywhere.” The gallant Field-Marshal no
doubt means well, but he is evidently unaware of
the sort of stories that some of his heroes and
gentlemen have written to their friends. To dis-
illusionise him would be cruel, yet The Bulletin
has in its possession over 300 remarkable clippings
strongly bearing on the subject, and with, in nearly
all cases, the name of the writers appended. .
* * +
N.S.W. Commandant French admits that
it would be very wise for Australia, ere local
traditions are formed, to do away with the expen-
sive equipments by her military, It is not only a
wise, but an absolutely vital and justand democratic
thing. Peacockism and dandyism have almost
strangled Gladstone’s Army Purchase reform.
Some months ago an N.S.W. Minister gave as an
excuse for appointing to commissions cer tin men
over the heads of others better qualm.si in a
military sense, that the former could and the lat-
ter could not afford to buy the clothing and other
attachments of the rank. This is simply giving
the man with the purse the right to command the
man without, even though the man without have
twice the brains and training. Australia must
squash this money-prank.
* * *
Mrs. Carley’s evidence in Sydney Water
Police Court re the shooting of Constabie Ward :
Witness went on to say that she saw Harris with a
revolver. Shaw also had one. The two were talking of
policemen. Harris said, “If I get caught, you blow him
out, and if you get caught I’ll do the same.” All the
“boys” about there had revolvers, and generally prac-
tised on tin-pots and other things.
This is no exaggeration of the state of things
among the lawless classes in Sydney.
♦ "X - $
The magistrate who, to put it mildly, sees
no great harm in brutal assault, is much the same
all over Australia. At Glebe (Sydney), a week or
two ago, an animal with a vote saw a complete
stranger sitting down in a hotel, and promptly
fell on him, got him down, battered him into
insensibility, permanently damaged one of his
eyes, and made him unfit for work for several
“ PHRENOLOGICAL .”
SHE: “ Why don't you yet your bumps read?"
H E (immaculate youth with dignity): “Because I object
to be made a fool of.”
weeks. Merely regarding the victim as a
working implement, his loss —in medical ex-
penses, sacrifice of wages and permanent deteri-
oration—was, probably, at least, £lOO. If the
brutal assailant had taken even £5 from him by
mere theft, and without the accompanying suffer-
ings, lie would have got six months at least—pos-
sibly three years. But the Glebe magistrate ap-
parently regarded the financial loss as having
been extenuated by brutish cruelty, for he let the
ruffian off with £5 fine. When is the Legislature
going to have sufficient horse-sense to fix the loicest
penalty for brutal assault at six months’ hard
labour ?
* * * ♦
There are fashions and epidemics in
suicide. On a recent Wednesday the Melbourne
papers reported the finding in the Yarra of a hat
with, inside of the lining, what purported to be a
rues ■> ige from the late suicided owner. Next
Friday they reported the finding of the owner’s
body. On the intermediate Thursday another hat
was found in the Yarra with the last message of
another suicide inside the lining, and the dead
owner was shortly afterwards fished out. In the
pocket of Suicide No. 2 was found the daily paper
with the account of the message found in the
hat of Suicide No. 1. It had only taken No. 2
about six hours to make up his mind to go and do
likewise.
* * * *
Right on top of the disenrolment of two
dishonest N.S.W. attorneys, and the lengthy sus-
pension of a third, it was cabled that a late
chairman of the Discipline Committee of the
Incorporated Law Institute had been remanded to
Bow-street police-court on a charge of misappro-
priating trust funds. “ Who shall keep the
keepers themselves ? ”
* * * *
Two more under-chloroform deaths at
Melb. hospital.
* * * 9
About 14 people in all have fallen, &c.,
over the high cliffs, generally called “ The Gap,”
at Watson’s Bay (Sydney). Last week when the
Minister for Works, on an official visit to the
borough, pulled up to admire the view from the
Gap, the aldermen seized the opportunity for
which they had waited, of representing the need
for a protecting fence. .J ust at the right moment a
man, apparently tangle-legged, rolled along dan-
gerously near tlie edge of the precipice. The
Minister excitedly called for someone to save the
man, and forthwith promised the fence. That
wobbly man acted his part extremely well.
* * * *
Recent Bananaland advt.:—
NOTICE.
TV/TK. T. FILLEMUP advertises that he will not be
responsible for my debts, because I have left
what he calls “my home ” without just cause. This
is to inform the public that he has never paid any of
my debts ; and that it will take all his time to pay
his own.
(Signed) MARIA FILLEMUP.
* * * *
There is a proj ct on foot for decorating
in color, the great hall of Parliament House, Vic.
At present the walls are in pure white plaster
with glazed surface, very dazzling in summer and
cool in effect. The large panels were apparently
intended to by decorated in color some day. A
series of subject-paintings, if done well in an
arranged comr-scaeme, would be effective, but it
isn’t likely that the Government will run to the
necessary expense, As it is, a change of Govern-
ment may upset the decorative apple-cart. With
George i urner back at the Treasury, costly
artistic ideas would have a poor chance.
• * * *
The heart of Archdeacon Langley, of
Sydney, is in the right place, but his head is in
the pulpit. With the object of suppressing sweat-
ing lie urges that only Christian men shall be
elected to municipal and parliamentary life. Mr.
Langley ought to know that among the worst-
sweated members of the community are C.E.
curates. Where is their 'minimum 7s. a day ?
Where is their eight-hour limit? And bishops,
archdeacons and church committees are, of course,
all Christian men.
* * * *
A Melbourne branch of the Scottish Self-
control Association, of which the Duke of Suther-
land is president, is in course of formation. Of
the three objects of this strange .society, two are :
“Not to treat” (i.c., “shout”) and “not to give
alcoholic drink in return for services rendered.”
But does it actually require an association to
restrain a Scotchman from giving anything away?
* * * *
“ W.” writes “On a recent visit to the
Passionist Monastery at Glen Osmond, near
Adelaide, I was admitted to the library, and
there found to my surprise two vols. of Spurgeon’s
sermons ! The Monastery was once the residence
A TOAST TO BENEDICTS.
If Purgatory be
Laugh not at him who marries—
He’s wise, for then doth he
Pass through while here he tarries !
N.S.W.
AMB. G.


To preserve
healthy homes
use
lifebuoy
ROYAL
DISINFECTANT
SOAP
SorcTftroat
“You cannot do better than
gargle with ‘Condy’s Fluid.’ ”
Sir More 11 Mackenzie, M.D.
(The Eminent Throat Specialist)
Gargle
with
Condy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL, London, England,
are the only Sukers.
“Condy’s Fluid” can be pure!, ased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitation.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The British War Office estimate was that
20,000 men would finish the Boer war. The
number of killed, wounded, sick,, missing, and
prisoners is already 40,000.
We Want
Your Custom
ħ
Continuously. It is not the casual purchaser we seek. Permanent trade is
what we are bending every energy to secure.
We know that gentlemen who buy our Boots will be able to say that
“Callaghan methods are straight, and that Callaghan Boots wear
longer than other boots.”
Gent’s Tan Balmorals, in Russia calf, 19/6, 22/6, 257-
Tan Vici-Kid Button Boots, 25/
„ French Calf Button Boots, 22/6.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
Add 1/- postage.
395 George-stueet, Sydney.
of Judge Boothby, grandfather of Guy of that
ilk, and the bedroom for years occupied by the
creator of Dr. Nikola is underneath the chapel
which has been formed by an amalgamation of
the Judge’s bedroom and study.”
» * * *
“ Melb.” : Rattle his bones over the
stones ! To-day I saw a funeral from Royal Park
worktiouse. ISobody followed. The black colfin-
box was taken away at a spanking trot. I was in
hopes the horses would gallop, just for the good
of my bile. A man beside the driver was smoking
a pipe.
* * * *
Seddon has refused to hand the Mt. Cook
(Wellington) prison-building over to the Uni-
versity for a college building. He is going to use
it for military barracks. As it is in the most
thickly-populated part of the town he evidently
means to do his best to raise the waning birth-
rate of the province.
* * * *
A Melbourne jury was called upon to dis-
entangle a most involved case recently. \\ illiam
Ricardo was charged with larceny of a spring
dray. It seems that early this year William, who
had hired a horse from one Lording to put in the
said dray, also borrowed 10s. from Lording to
help bury his (William’s) wife. _ The funeral was
expected to cost £2 10s., but it was alleged that
the undertaker had agreed to accept the balance
in sawdust. A week later Ricardo further desired
to borrow Lording’s spring dray, his own dray
being in pawn to Rothstadt for £3. Lording
wanted his own dray, but kindly volunteered to
assist Ricardo ; so the two went to Rothstadt,
] aid £3, and released the dray, then took it to
1 .am ael Lazarus and sold it for £7. Out of this
Lording squared himself and handed the balance
t > Ricardo, tie then hired the dray back from
L azarus at ss. a week, to be paid by Ricardo,
through Lording. A few weeks later Lording
heard the dray had been seized for debt owing by
Rio irdo, and told Lazarus of the incident. When
t ni moneyed man went to look after his property
1 e to'und that the woman whom Lording had lent
Ricardo 10 c to bury was a Mrs. Thomas, and that
she was not only alive and well, but also claimed
to be the real owner of the aforesaid dray.
Lazarus then bought the dray—his own dray—
from Mrs. Thomas, and that lady soon after died,
ready and truly this time. There is a certain
want of sequence about the matter just here;
also it is somewhat unusual for a man
named Lazarus to buy his own property twice
over, so to speak; still, that was the evi-
dence put before the jury. After this ex-
cursion the much-hypothecated dray was once
more lent to Ricardo, at the same old ss. a week.
A fe.v weeks later that thriftless individual again
pawned the vehicle to the original Rothstadt and
went to Lording for the loan of his dray. Lording
advised Ricardo to get the carriage out of pawn as
quickly as possible or Lazarus might get annoyed.
At this stage a flabbergasted jury said it had had
enough of the dray, and would like to hear
Ricardo’s version of the matter; and as that
gentleman had several good excuses to offer for
his conduct—including the burying of the widow
aforesaid and the maintenance of her two orphans
—the jury stro ugly urged mercy, and the Court
let him down with a month. This leaves Roth-
stadt and Samuel Laaarus to settle the ownership
of the dray between them.
* * * *
Up to now, the coal “ plank-men in
N.S.W. have, for hours at a stretch, to carry
along a plank, often at great heights, a load of
2701bs.—now reduced by law to a maximum of
2301b5. And this for a few shillings a day. Fine
animals these men must be—as must also the
Paddies who recently bombarded ex-priest’s Slat-
tery’s Brisbane lecture wit.i trifling pebbles of 10
to i2lb. each.
* * * *
It isn’t often a perf mt lady has the man
she is more or less married to so well under con-
trol as to be able to violently assault him and then
make him pay the bill when she is fined for the
“ battery.” The other day at Richmond (Melb.)
Court a person of the gentler sex was fined £1 for
grievously assaulting her Thomas by discharging
a coffee-pot at his head, with truer aim than usual.
Thomas wept copiously, having repented of his
overnight haste in giving her into custody, and
pleaded that he had angered her first by chastising
her with a chair; but the bench firmly charged
her 20s. Then Elizabeth called from the dock :
“Torn.it is £l. Go and get it, and don’t be
long. ’ And Tom dutifully hobbled out and got it.
PRECOCIOUS.
MATILDA: “Yah! she gives me the fair ’ ump.
Look at the side she puts on, an’ ’er old
woman ain’t got a rag to ’er back."
HONEY : “ O well, don’t get the nark, ’Tilda, old
gel. Yer know wot they says, ‘Be virtuous
and [?] be ’appy .’”
AT THE LADIES’ HAIRDRESSER’S.
SHOP-ASSISTANT: “ What can I get you, madam?” ALLBGED LADY : “Two ’ air combs.
S.A.: “ What kind?” A.L.: “ I want two ’air combs to keep me ’ air tight.”
The value of advt. Lady-teacher (ex-
amining a public-school on the reign of Charles
II.): “ Who discovered the Popish Plot?” Nice
little girl (eagerly): “ Quaker Oates.”
* * * *
One of the gentlemen who succeeded in
inserting lead into Jimmy Governor was in
Sydney last week trying to get a share of the
reward, and rather staggered the natives, and
aroused the push to a wild state of admiration, by
strolling round town wearing a huge fly-net and a
bandolier full of cartridges. The idea will catch
on. Mickey the Priest’s push and the Woolloo-
mooloo Bashers are already copying it, and cavort-
ing around with a waist gear that looks as like a
loaded bandolier as possible without being the
real thing.
* * * *
The Vic. W.C.T.U., dealing with the
juvenile-depravity problem, sensibly suggests that
a children’s court be established in the province.
In Canada, persons under the age of 16 are tried
in the children’s court—with closed doors, and
apart from the trials of other accused. In Ade-
laide, all charges against defendants under 18 are
heard and decided in private. This prevents
injurious gossip about the trial, and protects the
children from the hardening influence of facing
the gaze of the curious and the vicious.
Vic. Board of Health has concluded
to come down legally on vendors of chloro-
dyne lozenges. Each of these delicate
sweetmeats contains nearly a minim of
chlorodyne, and the consumption of a few
pennyworth would “stiffen” the average
youngster, wonderful though that animal’s
powers of digestion be. Dr. Gresswell
points out, moreover, that a craving for
drugs can be easily acquired by such means,
and the Australian temperament lends itself
dangerously to such a development on a
large scale. There was a row in Sydney
last year over the same loaded confec-
tionery. It is conceivable that these or
similar compounds may some day play a
part in “assault ” cases. The drugged
sweetmeat is well enough known on the
Continent, but does not, for so far, appear
to have come into use in Australia. Any-
how, chlorodyne lozenges are not to be
devoured promiscuously without harm of
some sort resulting.
“ X.”: Though N.S.W. Govt, may be
commended for its symbolical taste in placing
a cypress in the morgue-ground at Circular
Quay, Sydney, said tree would be the better for
more attention. At present, it is in little better
preservation than the bodies within.
* * * *
Darlinghurst Gaol (Sydney), now being
decorated for the coming Federal festivities, is to
have over the main entrance—“ Welcome., Bul-
letin suggests as an addition —“Let em all
come.”
Ed. Bulletin. —The treatment of certain
contractors’ horses here (Port Pirie, S.A.) is most
barbarously cruel; yet the local bench lately dis-
missed a proven case of brutality (battering a
miserable overladen moke with a piece of iron-
piping) and gave costs against the man who tried to
protect the wretched animal. The decisions of that
bench, generally, are making the inhabitants
wonder when it will be fortunately superannuated
out of the way.— Ellerdale.
*.* * *
At Circular Quay, t’other day, two mail-
steamer stewards were giving each other a bad
time in the “glory hole.” One had exhausted a
splendid vocabulary of good old London-dock
abuse, when he wound up with a look of wither-
ing scorn and a blast that utterly finished his
opponent. “Why, you —you blanky etcetera,
said he, “ you eat like a blanky passenger ! ”
AN INVEN-
TION OF
THE ENEMY.
HE: “ Mrs. Tibbits
has been telling
everybody that we
are engaged .”
SHE: “She’s always say-
ing spiteful things about me.”
What the Melbourne papers call an “ ex-
traordinary charge of perjury” was heard the
other day. The trouble started in the District
Court, where Mindora Josephine M‘Garry sued
her husband for maintenance. His story on that
occasion was that he had found her in a bedroom
in a strange house with a strange man, another
strange man being also more or less involved in
the affair. Later on the two strange men declared
that they had been hired by M ‘Garry, one of
them to be found in the strange house with Mrs
M‘Garry (who was to be partially undressed it
possible by way of corroborative evidence), ai d
the other to rush in along with the husband ai d
be a witness. The lady (so the strange mans
story went) was duly confused with liquor, ai d
then taken to the house and more or less undressed
as per agreement, and the wronged husband, by
extraordinary luck, arrived at the right moment
and made the discovery. Though both the strange
men swore to this story as witnesses for tire
prosecution when M ‘Garry was charged with per-
jury, the J.P. decided, apparently, that they
wore falsely blackening their own characters, and
the accused was discharged, so far as that item
went. This opens up sundry curious possibilities,
for either M‘Garry swore falsely against his wife,
and hired these two beautiful characters to do
likewise, in which case something should happen
to him ; or else they swore falsely in swearing
that he hired them to swear falsely, in which case
something large and substantial should happen to
them. And, if the latest story of the two men is
false, then Mrs. M‘Garry was found in circum-
stances that fairly justified her husband in asking
for a divorce. Yet the law can hardly give M'Garry
a divorce on the evidence (about what happened in
the strange house aforesaid) of two men who have
since sworn publicly that there is no truth in said
evidence. And if it refuses a divorce it thereby
expresses a tacit belief in the theory that
M‘Garry’s charges against his wife are just plain
perjury—yet the law, as represented by the J.P.
at the City Court, has decided off-hand that they
are not perjury. Therefore the law is somewhat
in the position of the gentleman who arrested
himself after a severe struggle, in the course of
which he had to stun himself with a club in self-
defence because his violence was so great that he
was in danger of his own life.
* * * *
Extract from a letter written by an “ old
boy ” of Geelong Grammar School, now with the
British troops in S’Africa :
De Wet has a good name for the way he treats his
prisoners, and the Yeomanry Hospital Co., which he cap-
tured, were so pleased with how he treated them that
they did their best to save his house from being burnt
and looted while on their way to Pretoria. From what I
have seen of the Boers, and from what I have heard from
men who have been captured by them, they are a far
superior race to what we have been led to believe, and I
have the greatest admiration for the way they have lasted
against us. They have been blamed a good deal for
firing on the white flag, and though I think in some cases
they have been to blame, yet to show how hard it is to
see'a flag (which is supposed to be white, but is usually
brown with dirt) against the brown grass of the veldt, I
need only say that two Yeomanry doctors holding a big
red-cross' flag tried to attend some wounded men lying on
the field at Roodeval, and the Devons, who were only
400yds. away, peppered at them so much that they had
to leave the' wounded on the field and keep in shelter.
The Devons said afterwards they thought the two doctors
were Boers, and that they did not see the flag. It
has also been said that the Boers have shown a flag of
truce very often and then fired on our men, but as they
fight in such disorganised bodies of detached parties and
under different leaders, I think it is very possible that
one party of Boers might show a flag of truce which
another body of Boers in a different position did not see.
You will think from this that I am a regular pro-Boer,
which I am very far from being ; only I don’t think most
of the articles one sees written on the Boers and the way
they have carried on this war have given them anything
like the fair treatment they ought to have received.
• • * •
Of 11 fugitive criminals from New Cale-
donia extradited last week from Queensland 10
were murderers.
The struggling
genius who perpetrates
chalk pictures on the
pavement is quite a
novelty in Melbourne,
judging from remarks
passed on his work. He
is clever, as chalk artists
go, and the lurid land-
scapes, seascapes, “por-
traits ” of Lord Roberts,
&c., are executed under
the cold eye of the busy
world, which is a great
point in his favor. A
genuine pavement deco-
rator is a more deserving
object than the humbugs
who kneel beside pic-
tures of dead mackerel,
snow - covered churches
and so forth in the Lon-
don streets. It was
Dickens, or Sala, who
told a touching fable of
an onlooker tearing his
hair when he saw a
/ bogus pavement artist
/ put a “ finishing touch ” to
f the mackerel’s belly. This
agonised spectator was the
man who went around London
in the silent night doing pave-
ment-pictures for the trade, and
every time he caught one of his soulless customers
in the act of desecration he would call upon the
great God of Art to smite the Philistine dead.


“ He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’S success is a. Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thine t!
- I ™*’ “ MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Same prices and attention as if you bought amongst the daily crowds at the counters.
The Melbourne Cup was once again a
glowing exposition of the charms of the P.D.
corset. To what extent the many enchanting
visions were indebted to the P.D., the P.D. only
knoweth. Millions of such secrets are locked
within the graceful bosom of the P.D.*
Simplest—Most Durable—Best
JICH'T^
running
h
ĥ
ħ
s*machines|
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
h
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
GLOSS TO have N O Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMANS LETTER.
Mr Dear Mm-' 41 ' 7 ' WOO.
A new joy has come into the life of Svdnevsiders
solemn d ‘t' 0 ’ , l 4“ the reading in tlfe hitherto
the _ SUggestions for celebrating
federal festivities. One man’s “bee” is to fetch
a number of children from schools all over the
t 0 h , el P S y dne y youngsters at hymn
squealing and bun-eating, and the Herald 7 has
twice given him space m which to fly his insect
The children, of course, have my permission to
of Ut tf hey ? 1 ght W® be oaHed representa-
them The fS S and b oy s they leave behind
t lem. ihe feelings of the left-behind will be
chiefly envy and hatred of those who go.
hvnmT ho mentions what
suDolfcat ion £ n - migh u Sl - ng - “Praise and
supplication to God is what is needed,” he savs
plication £ ! Praise and sup-
L :,i n i he old heathen idea of buttering up
tbe idol, then grovelling (in case he’ll be angry at
fored mid g kn?V Sl f Cll i ied) ’/ I ragged into the m na '
tored and knickerbockered latest-born nation.
.Also, , da ohson’s ‘Te Deuin ’ might be sung ”
Jackson’s “Te Deum ! ” Fancy Inyone of the
name of Jackson writing a “TeDeum.” They
had no Jacksons m Ilissus, I trow. Then there
are suggestions for designs for a national flag and
i '? kan g a roo and emu are favorably
J p U P no 0116 mentions the decorative
possibilities of the opossum and iguana.
9/1 nnri U ” number between 12,000 and
20 000, said Mr. Lyne. A large contingent of
these will be imported. Govt, pays for their
accommodation and the local forces will teach
adieltfvl 11 P adm / S .? f th - 6 great Australian
adjective M. sP. and other visitors, although in-
Sff b r^l V h’ W i lU ha , ve to pa y their own hotel-
f i ba ? bespoken a number of rooms at
the Australia—but not the whole hotel, as was
reported. ’
In the revival of “ Magda,” Miss O’Neil wears
the most entrancing of all her countless gowns.
It is black and soft and swishy and covered with
brilliant scales that glisten and wink wickedly
green, violet and blue winks when she flings off the
huge white cloak, patterned in black, that she
wears on her return to the dull Schwartz
house. Put did ever anyone but a Queen of
Song wear such a morning robe as the
blue and white brocade and lace phenomenon in
the third act ? An ordinary woman couldn’t sit
down to breakfast m that gown. She would de-
mand some new kind of food, and you could no
more invent a new food than a new sin. To eat
porridge and ham-and-eggs when you’ve got a
train to your morning dress like a comber rolling
m at Coogee might be Magdaish, but it’s not
womanish. And the art with which Kingston
avoids treading on that frothy crescent of lace *
Away rushes Magda in a huff to lean on the
mantelpiece. Kingston strides swiftly after her
then pulls up suddenly with two catlike steps at
the very edge of the lace tiers. Magda dashes at
nothing at all and halts before she gets there.
Kingston is after her, and when you think lie’s
into the hue of surf with both heels—lo ! the toes
. P ls badly-polished boots are a quarter of an
inch from it. The man who understands a
woman s tram as Kingston does in the crisis of his
hte, who can watch it, and pray and plead to the
wearer, and speak copy-book maxims and suffer
from a grande passion all the time while the
woman is darting about, and never put a hoof on
the tiniest lace outpost—that man sits on the
Apex of Civilisation.
Mr. Tom Roberts, who lea "es for England
shortly, is having a great slaughter sale of his
works, so there’s a chance for you to put pictures
on your walls in the places now occupied by oleo-
graphs. Some of them may be bought for less
than a guinea—but I advise you to secure a big
glorious blue-and-grey inspiration, painted from a
coign at Mosmans, and showing the stretch of har-
bor, shipping, Circular Quay, and a view of the city
crowned with towers and chimneys. It is reckoned
the gem of the collection, and if you are good (for
the money) you may have it at £lOO. But my
favourite is a break-neck green slope and red road
near tiie head of the Clarence. Kine that clearly
have not experienced lean years rush down
towards you, or set their forelegs stiff and glide
down. 1 here s a face in a sun-bonnet—such a
sweet iaughmg face. “Bailed Up” will be a
valuable souvenir of the bad old days when we
celebrate our centenary of Federation. Govt
ought to secure it. That portrait of Henry
Farkes which was hung in the Royal Academy is
tor sale among the collection. Of the head of an
old aboriginal, Mr. Roberts says, “When I had
finished the portrait I showed it to the sitter—
with some pride—asking, ‘How you like it?’
He looked at it earnestly for a minute, then
queried, “ Him dog ? ” The “ Gallery of Sydney
Beauties is a series of 23 panel portraits of men
who are remarkable for other than mere beauty
B. R. Wise, R. S. Smythe, Marshall-Hall are
m the ‘gallery,” which Mr. Roberts hopes will
be kept together.
Sick Children’s Hospital benefited last week
when Miss Rose Lyons’ pupils held a ball. It
was, as the proud parents looking from galleries
said, “a sweet sight.” One tiny child in grey
chiffon danced like a trained sunbeam. “Federa-
tion Ballet,” arranged by Miss Lyons, brought on
first a boy soldier just back from war. He falls
asleep and dreams the ballet, which a crowd of
little children actually dance around him. He
awakes, they flee, he tries to find them, and, fail-
ing, solaces himself with a break-down and a jig.
Liedertafel gave a smoke-concert last week, and
about 250 sorrowful-looking men sat in photo-
attitudes at little tables in the body
r'oro f hall,.an*! tried to appear as if they didn’t
,° r w l u sky and were unconscious of the con-
t i ,P a^ e 1500 women. The gaze came from
the gailenes Strong men wilted under it. It
whi/f / or Jein B stuck up there squaw-like
3fV, he . braves drank fire-water and dallied
i', \ f t l lolr Lad / Nicotine. But the squaws
j . , ,! e rausi c just as well as those on the saw-
austed floor, and right good melody it was.
Frlwf r 'n CtUr u r Donald M‘Donald and pilot-fish
JMwin breach are en route back from M.L. Mr.
wS° na d^ h i aS be ® n suffering from neuralgia, for
trave lbug in jumpy trains is a good
culture. He appears in Tasmania next. Banjo
r S ab ,?, Ut bnished in that island, and
him in W A * a^^lou^’l Gropers are expecting
From Paling’s comes a new waltz, “ What Hap-
pened to Jones ” The melody is bright and
catchy, and is admirably fitted for the ballroom,
ihe composer, Mr. Sharp, the well-known “Pro-
fessor m the play, has dedicated the music to
Charles Arnold.
Miss Alice Oliver, twenty-two-year-old daughter
o Mr. Alexander Oliver, to the great regret
ol a wide circle, died last week. She was at
first regarded as a typhoid patient, but ultimately
succumbed to meningitis. Another untimely
death was that of young Arthur G-riffiths Frazer,
killed at Bowral on Tuesday week. He was
riding a spirited horse and carrying a camera,
and fie dropped his reins a second to “snap”
a VI T V -„ Tbe horse bolted and the rider fell and
was badly kicked. He was found by a lady living
m th e neighbourhood, and, though rational
enough to tell her how the accident occurred, he
was, for the few hours he lived after it, under the
impression that she was his mother. Poor Mrs.
firazerhas now lost her two youngest children.
A daughter, a charming girl of 18, died a while
ago.
A semi-millionaire who is standing for the
Mayoralty of an Australian city is just back from
a European tour, and his wife, who is large and
fine, has brought some paralysing gowns from Paris.
What may happen to a would-be Mayor in Aus-
trail a was shown t’other night at a meeting, when
the rich man’s chairman produced his candidate’s
marriage lines ” in refutation of certain slander-
ous statements that were flying about. If the
gilded one gets the billet (which will enable him
and his spouse to meet Mr. and Mrs. Jook of
York) the wives of the other candidates will be
certain to say, through their tears, “ Ah, it was
all through those Paris gowns ! ”
Lord Beauchamp, with Lord Tennyson re-
cently visited the studio of the Misses Hara-
bidge (three Adelaide artists). The former had
already obtained a painting by one of these ladies,
and it so favourably impressed Gov. Lamington
that he commissioned Lord Richard Neville to
buy a work by the same artist. The ability of the
trio is shewn to its greatest advantage in their
miniature and portrait painting; and they are
among the few Adelaide celebrities who have their
works hung in the National gallery.
Miss Mary Wilshire, born in George-street,
Sydney, in 1810, died last week. Her father was
commissary-general in early Botany Bay days.
Miss Wilshire was a simple old soul who regarded
George-street as one of the wonders of the world.
Advt. in S.M.H.: “Young lady will give
domestic services for lessons in palmistry.” She
would rather have the lessons than 14s. a week,
I suppose. And by-and-bye she will set up as a
clairvoyant and palmist and tell other domestic
service “young ladies’ that “their planet ain’t
rulin’ this week,” and that “ the gent just between
colors, that swings ’is ’ands when ’e’s walkin’, is
gettin’ letters from a small, fair woman that
wears ’er ’air fuzzy-like.”
In Wellington (M. L.) a certain leader of Society
is wishing she ha<i died young, or had never given
an At Home with a man from a music-hall in the
programme. The hostess herself had never heard
this man and knew not the calibre of his humour
until he began to sing “How can a man be happy
when his wife is always eating biscuits in the
bed ?” Her guests’faces grew colder and colder
until the social temperature dropped to zero.
From a suburban paper:—“A great many
ladies have been curious to know from me the
name of the bride. I now tell them that the
wedding will be duly advertised in the Advocate
under the heading 4 Marriages.’ In future I don’t
intend to write any notice about weddings unless
advertised in the business columns. I don’t think
it fair to do otherwise.”
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Certain 4 distinguished visitors’ to the Cup
were desired, through a par. in the Argus, to
spare the Y.R.C. secretary the 4 pain ’ of refusing
their applications for ladies’ tickets ad lib. Seems
that the favor of a free-pass simply incites some
men to ask the same favor for their sisters, cousins,
aunts, and female acquaintances in general. The
inflated deadhead has no sense of the relative
business values of the sexes in the Grand Stand at
Flemington. A man who wants to see the Cup
and can’t get there gratis is worth only 10s.,
whereas the Toorakian woman who wants to see
the Cup and has no lady’s ticket at her disposal,
is worth £1 to the show, in many cases. She is
the cause of an unfortunate male victim buying
tickets for two.
44 Nellie Stewart’s gala raiment seems always to
combine white, pink and blue, the last color
dragged in, maybe, so as to bring 4 my turquoises ’
into the picture. Her 4 Cup ’ swallow-tailed coat
of white, brocaded with pink roses and blue forget-
me-nots, was worn over frilled white chiffon under-
dress. Glittering buckles and eccentric flop-hat
added snap to a toilette which achieved the unique
feat of dazzling a policeman. The ‘ bhoy in blue ’
must be pretty tough, but this particular one
seemed knocked all of aheap. As Nellie leaned over
the railing, back of the stand, fluttering her lashes
and pursing her lips while she gabbled, the guar-
dian of law-and-order stood wide-eyed and open-
mouthed in a sort of temporary paralysis. Even a
butter-fingers could have picked the dreamer’s
pocket of a valuable sweep-ticket without break-
ing his trance.
“A favourite actress has brought a new brick-
red complexion with her this time —an artificial
sun-burn which is highly effective in the electric
light, and not too bad when the sun shines on it.
“ A Sydney firm evidently turned out two recent
brides in exactly similar going-away outfits, for
the twin fawn frocks met on the terrace at the
Cup, and the wearers flew from each other, and
kept a cold distance for the rest of the Oaks
meeting.
“Society has engaged the bonnie daughter of a
dandy potentate, who talks much on every subject,
to the Sydney johnnie who has been her constant
cavalier all through the Carnival, but official con-
firmation has not yet been given to the rumor.
The alleged bridegroom-elect is a tall, slight,
small-faced youth, who affects a steep collar, a
gold bangle in his tie, and a merry laugh. Mel-
bourne believes him to be very rich.
“ Mrs. Carty Salmon, who danced with Minister
Outtrim in the first set at the Cup ball, wore her
bridal turn-out —the enamel butterfly, presented
by Earl Beauchamp, and the diamond star,
donated by the Sydney girls. She spoilt former
effects by an unbecoming style of hair-dressing
(parted in centre and plastered with brilliants).
By the way, the fashion in which one dancer in
aforesaid opening set dragged up her train caused
much amusement, for the show of white starched
frills was the most awful crudity of the night.
“At the Cup ball, all the Maddens
and the Naicest present sported shower-
posies. Next to Mrs. Wesley-Hall’s bright
foam-green sequined frock, glistening like
a summer sea, came the frocks of two
Sydney matrons, Mrs. Claude Macdonald and
Mrs. Harry Levy. The former was like a silver
fish, all its scales pearly, and its fins of jet. The
latter lady, even handsomer than her sister, Mrs.
Isaacs, was by far the loveliest figure in the
gathering. She wore a pale mauve embroidered
silk-muslin over a soft silk dress of the same tone.
Pink roses went delicately with the pastel shade.
Mrs. Albert Miller’s white gown and white hair
shone brilliantly in the light of the Miller dia-
monds.
“The Russian Consul, who talked French -with
Mrs. Holroyd and broken English with the fair
Ruby, was the most remarkable spectacle in the
room, for with his medalled black consular coat he
wore pale-blue pantaloons with gold-stripes—a
truly startling get-up.
“The Maddens gave their first garden party of
the season last I riday at Govt. House, which is in
Srocess of being done up in readiness for the Gov.
eneral. The gardens looked quite lovely, as did
also the Madden family. Mrs. Lieut.-Governor
seemed quite as young as any of- her daughters
and every bit as pretty. Miss Ruby Madden
looked saucy in a hat tipped up on one side, and
the other Maddens appeared fresh and plump.
There were lots of Stephens—Mrs. Madden’s
family—on the lawn. They also are good-looking
and abundant.
“There were more men than women at the
Govt. House garden-party. Acting-Gov. Madden
is more popular with men than his ladies are with
women. Why, it would be hard to say. Manners
are a family accomplishment of the Maddens all
round, saving only Frank, who, poor man, is a
Member of Parliament. The Acting-Governor
himself is always polite; though it is evidently
trying to him to have to bow to a lady in the
street, where there is no looking-glass for him to
set his hat on by.
“When Gov. Brassey came to Melbourne he
brought with him a postillion-carriage. He did
not take it away with him, but apparently
trusted to trading it off. He has since sold it
to Gov.-Gen. Hopetoun, who will use it on State
occasions. It had a baron’s coronet on the door-
panel—a circle of gold, bordered with ermine, and
surmounted by silver balls. This has been painted
off by a Melb. coach-building firm, by order of
Secretary Wallington, and Hopetoun’s arms have
been emblazoned on instead. It looks gorgeous
quite as good as kerridges kept by livery stables
for wedding purposes. One wonders what profit
Brassey made on the transaction.
“ Smiler Peacock’s marriage will be the social
political event of the coming session of Parlia-
ment. The man with the Iron Laugh vowed be-
fore the altar of Venus that he would not wed
until the M'Lean Government was turned out of
office. That event is now certain, and Peacock
will be ‘ fixed up ’in due course. It is not every
girl who is married by Parliamentary majority.
There is no provision for such a thing in May.
The division-bells that ring on Turner’s motion of
no-confidence will be the future Mrs. Peacock’s
wedding-bells.
“ A lot of women worked for Duncan Gillies
during the recent election. The smooth Duncan
is a favorite with the coming sex. It doesn’t
matter how uncomeatable a bachelor may be, the
fact of his isolation makes him interesting to the
other sex. Besides—well, there are romantic
stories about Duncan, who, though a shirker from
matrimony, is supposed to have known the pangs
of Love. His hat, in this connection, gives him
away. It is a wicked-looking tile, suggesting that
it could tell a heap of piquant stories if it chose
and had gone through a delightfullv-disreputable
career. Duncan, if he but knew it, owes a lot to
his hat. Perhaps he does know it.
“A love-affair was at the root of one of the
greatest political rows at last general election. One
of the candidates for a certain district married a lady
who had previously rejected the son of the lead-
ing resident. The 1. r. therefore put forth another
aspirant, and worked tooth-and-nail to poll him
home. The contest raged fiercely, to the amuse-
ment of the whole district. Spite met spite at
every turn, and the rival women of the party held
‘At Homes,’at which the latest malicious on dit
of the opponent and his backers was whispered
before the magnifying mirrors of Gossip. ‘lsn’t
it well that I refused him?’ remarked the lady
who was the cause of all the strife, ‘he has turned
out such a viper.’ And, perhaps, the ‘ viper’ was
also congratulating himself. Who knows !
“La ‘Lohengrin,’ Arens as the mystic hero
looks delightful in silver mail, with golden curls
and Platonic blue eyes. In Wagner’s opera his
throaty voice is sweet and expressive, and his
‘pure and tender child’ attitude towards the
heroine is suitable in a wooer of a semi-celestial
origin. His only trouble is a snub Slav nose.
Somehow angels seem to need Grecian or small,
delicate aquiline noses. Some special arrange-
ment will have to be made on behalf of pug and
beak-nosed saints. In the bridal-chamber (like an
unfurnished ante-room) scene, Lohengrin covers
his mail with a becoming pale-blue pelisse, a long
one like a small boy’s Russian blouse. On the
whole, Arens is very fetching in his Wagner role,
and perhaps he’ll oust Salvi as a petticoat pet
after all. Salvi is plump and sedate off the
boards, while his Russian colleague has at com-
mand the most childlike, bland, pleasant series of
smiles imaginable.
“The rumor that Mrs. Kate Fraser (the Mel-
bourne lady who accidentally lodged a bullet in
her husband’s brain) had got an engagement to
appear in comic opera and pantomime with George
Musgrove’s co., is contradicted by Mrs. Fraser
herself. What parts did the rumorists expect her
to play ? Did they think Mrs. F. was likely to
be starred as a rival attraction to Nellie Stewart ?
Sydney Johnnie in close attendance on one
of the Roses of Persia was asked the other day
what he was up to. ‘ It’s quite an impersonal
matter, he replied—‘am merely acting as a warm-
ing-pan for a pal.’ Fancy the noble sacrifice of
the friendly act! _ Yet the Avon bard wrote to
trust all men save in the offices and affairs of love.
When a, man is entrusted with the care of his
friend s best girl, she invariably gets hugged by
deputy, kissed by proxy, and embraced under
power of attorney.
• Died in Melbourne, last week, the amazonian
Alaclame Lacaton, one time prosperous manageress
of the Maison Doree restaurant. Fifteen to 20
years ago, when the ‘Maison’ was situated in
Lonsdale-street, Melb., the Lacatons had a fine
business ; more recently, they held their own at
the well-known house in Swanston-street, but, for
some time before her death, Madame had ceased
to have any restaurant to manage—the Maison
knew her no more. Genial, when it suited her, to
the male feeders (though she once slapped a cer-
tvtlll! jarrla^er across the face with her slipper),
Madame was as hard as she looked in her dealings
with the waitresses who slaved for her. Though
a girl might have been five years in the service
she got no mercy from the proprietress if she had
the bad luck to fall sick. Madame would promptly
sack the pallid Phyllis, remarking that the Maison
was not a hospital.
“Frances Tyrrel Gil!sends a chatty letter from
.London, where she seems to be getting amongst
the right sort of people. Has been elected a
member of the Women’s Institute with the
Grosvenor Club, and is going to lecture there on
the eternal subject of Art, next month. Sarah
Grand is a shining light at the Grosvenor. Miss
Gill met the daring Sarah first at the Authors’
Society dinner, and is much taken with her
bright, breezy, open-minded way.’ Melbourne
subscribers to the little book of Gill poems will be
glad to hear that it is likely to appear this month,
provided the Chinese war doesn’t monopolise pub-
lie attention. Military business is a curse to
struggling litterateurs, moans poor Frances. ‘ A
luige number of people who live by their pens,
have been dismissed from papers to make room
for glorified accounts of S’African successes.
Un G half the books advertised for publication
made their appearance, and these, except in the
case of well-known names, to the loss of the
authors. Really good books have been passed
without a word of notice.’ It doesn’t appear from
her letter whether Frances is an enthusiastic pro-
Roer, ( but she seems that way disposed, for she
says ‘Dr. Rentoul is writing for New Age against
Mr. Chamberlain. I wish more in Australia
would.’
“An interesting reference to Ada Crossley
crops up in the course of Miss G.’s rather illegible
epistle—‘Ada Crossley’s reputation is on the in-
crease. She is very devoted to her own people,
but she wishes that every time there is a benefit or
a charity-concert got up in Melbourne they
wouldn’t send to her for a subscription. She has
sent back many a cheque, but by this time it
might be considered she has paid-up.’ In short,
contralto Crossley, like the wealthier Melba, is
tired of helping to pay the passage-money of
ambitious Australian singers who, after a short
experience of failure in London, will probably ask
her to assist them in getting back to the place
whence they came—and may the Lord have
mercy upon their souls.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
10K AI,L STOCK AND POULTLtY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
SHIRTS. ~
For Station and Out-door work our Silk &TRIPE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
per UalJ-dozeu, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCAS'TLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
Largest and Best Company in the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The Reports of the State Insurance Departments show that the Mutual Life of New York
had, on December 31, 1899,
Larger Total Assets
A Greater Gain in Assets during the Year
A Larger Total Income and
Larger Amount paid to Policyholders
than any other Company.
ASSETS, at end of 1899, £61,980,398.
Policies include Insurance, Investment, and Trusteeship, as required. Write for particulars, giving
name, address and date of birth, to “ The Manager,” at any of the undermentioned Branch Offices.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Iti'.ANcn Omc+;s :
SYDNEY— Company’s Building, Martin Black.
MELBOURNE— 2B9 Collins Struct.
BRISBANE— 2IO Queen Street.
ADKI.AI DK —73 King Wimram Strkk 1
PERTH— St. O-korgk’s Tkkrack.
IIOBART—US Macquakik Strkkt.
One of the dangers of Sydney during the holi-
day season will be the burglar and sneak-thief. The
Federation festivities will attract all the rascaldom of
Australasia, and plate and purses will be constantly
menaced. Those who are leaving Sydney, and visitors
to Sydney, therefore should deposit their plate, cash
and valuables in the Sydney Safe Deposit for security
Access can be had to them at any time during business
hours. The vaults are situated behind -Paling’s, off
George-street, and are always open for inspection. They
are in themselves a sight worth seeing.*
ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
Fox* the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a»nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
They now call him not Redwood, but
“Firewood.” And what a fire he has lighted 1
Judge Bundey, the most popular Judge
in S.A. history, is seriously ill, and may never
occupy the Bench again.
Ex-Premier Dibbs was the first to invite
the present Premier Lyne to office. The Ministry
started in October and lasted two months.
H. H. Champion claims to have traced the
authorship of a libellous leaflet, circulated against
him at election-time, to a certain well-known
Foreign-trade advocate, and purposes carrying
the matter into court.
E. H. S. von Arnheim, deputy-master of
Sydney Mint, goes to England for a holiday. Mr.
von Arnheim is the first native of N.S.W. to gain
command of the local Mint. He has been about
30 years in that establishment, and has worked up
from the bottom rung.
-General Hopetoun, it is printed, is
tu blossom into —cumbrous title I —Duke of
Linlithgow in January. Whitehall asserts that
Lady Hopetoun was for long very averse to
returning to Australia but she may be reconciled
to it—for three years—as Duchess.
The point of view, again. Queer advt.
from the Australasian :
.—Killed whilst on duty at Heidelburg, South
Africa, on September 3, through Boer treachery in trying
to wreck a train, ■, the dearly loved son of
, of , Melbourne, aged 19 years.
The father of the defeated politician and
generally extinct Bryan O’Loghlen is artistically
commemorated by one of the finest statues in
Ireland. The marble figure stands in the hall of
the Four Courts in Dublin. The father, who died
Master of the Rolls, was the first R.C. to receive
a judicial appointment after the passing of the
Emancipation Act.
Strange that the exploits of the Governors
did not recall the deeds of another half-caste Joe,
the notorious murderer and outlaw Joe Flick, of
Normanton and Burketown, N.Q. Fliok’s adven-
tures and death were on a par with those of his
Breelong namesake, and to this day in the. Gulf-
country his dreadful deeds are a stock subject of
talk by many a camp-fire.
Bona-fide “ In Memoriam ” notice from a
N.S.W. country paper :
Warde, who captured Deakin’s old seat at
Essenden (Vic.), is a real “ labor ” member, and is
a cabinet-maker by trade. He smokes a short
“ cutty,” and can often be seen riding home from
work on a lorry, on to which he has jumped as it
was passing down street. He is, without doubt,
quite as fluent and pleasing a speaker as the ex-
member, though he has not had the extensive
reading which gives to Deakin’s speeches so
literary a flavor.
Probably the only legislator in Australia
to join in a serious game of football is Lawson, the
youngest member of Vic. Assembly, by whom the
brainy and scholarly barrister M‘Cay, who had
opposed the war-vote, was defeated for Castle-
maine. Lawson was the district crack before he
took up politics (he is now but 24) and last winter
when the Colling wood team visited Castlemaine,
he greatly distinguished himself. Premier Turner
while in office once took part in a fancy-dress
football match on St. Kilda ground, but that
made no pretence to be a game.
Duncan Gillies has been getting into
trouble with his Toorak constituents because he
will neither answer letters nor see
callers. Duncan is never “at home ”
to anybody. Attempts have often been
made to see hitn early in the morning
after a late sitting of the House.
The visitor might hear his snores
trumpeting through the house when
the door was opened, but the land-
lady’s reply would invariably be that
he was “oot, an’ I dinna ken when he’ll
be hame.” Some constituents don’t like
that sort of thing. George Turner also
very sensibly declines to see people at his
private house. Once when he was Premier
the newspapers got into the habit of
knocking him up late at night to make
inquiries, so Turner gave instructions that
no knocks after 10 o’clock were to be
answered. But one night he lost his
latch-key, and nobody would come to the
door for all his banging. The Right Hon.
George Turner, K.C.M.G., had to climb
over the back gate and get in by breaking
a pane so as to undo the catch of a win-
dow.
Poor old Bryan O’Loghlen, the broguey
man who lost his deposit at Port Fairy in the
recent Vic. elections, was once Vic. Premier for
a little while, and, through his want of. decision,
failed to take advantage of the opportunity which
offered to make himself a Supreme Court
Judge. During his term of office, poor old Bryan
seriously issued in the Govt. Gazette a notice
warning the public not to believe anything tne
Argus newspaper might say regarding the Govt,
of the day.
Died lately, from an intensely painful
malady, Henry Robinson, South Australia's best-
known resident railway-contractor. His biggest
local job was one of the Hills, sections of the Ade-
laide-Melb. overland line; that done, he under-
took some of the expensive Kanakaland railway
works. He tried hard to get the Port Darwin-
Pine Creek section of the. Transcontinental line
done bv white labor, but the Mil-lars’ price, with
a stipulation in favor of Chow labor, smothered
him.
John Cater, the Wagga butcher, who was
among the first to believe Arthur Orton was Tich-
borne, died the other day at Armidale (N.S.W.).
He put his life on the die and lost. He sold out
his Wagga business, danced attendance on the fat
impostor in England, swore stoutly in his interests
in the law courts, and went down with him at the
end. Cater tried to live in England after, but
gave it up, returned to Australia, and closed his
career as pieman in Armidale.
Rev. Vincent Grogan, head of N.S.W.
Passionists, who died the other day at Marrick-
ville, Sydney, at 63, received many fashionables
into the R.C. fold in England. It was he who
captured and baptised Santley, the singer, a
quarter of a century ago. When Santley was in
Sydney, he spent many of his forenoons with
Father Grogan. It was through the latter that
Santley received a Papal Order of Knighhood,
although the primary cause of the title was a gift
by the singer of £lOOO towards the erection of a
chapel for ’vert Anglican ministers.
Alfred Deakin has had much kudos over
his alleged self-sacrifice in returning to Vic.
Treasury the unspent balance of his allowance as
a Federal delegate to England. As a matter of
fact, the gentle Alfred was bound by law to hand
back every cent for which he could not produce
vouchers of expenditure. If he had sat and voted
in Vic. Assembly after holding “an office of pro-
fit ” —which would have been the case had he
accepted anything but his literal expenses—he
would have lost his seat and incurred other severe
penalties.
There died recently one Henry Wait, of
whom little seems to be generally known. Sydney
papers have lately been publishing unobtrusive
paragraphs to the effect that this or that charity
has benefited under his will to the extent of £5OO
or £lOOO, with the right of participating in the
residue of the estate. George-street Asylum,
Parramatta, for the Infirm and Destitute, comes
in unexpectedly for over £5OO, and it is rather
hard to know what to do with thp money. The
institution is a purely Govt, one, and the capital
would be but a drop in the ocean compared with
the annual cost. Probably the interest will be
used to provide some little yearly treat for the
inmates, to commemorate their benefactor.
Arthur Robinson, who won Dundas from
old member Thomson at Vic. general election, is
a son of “ Guppy ” Robinson, commercial editor
of the Age. He is a fluent speaker, able debater,
and a shining light of the A.N. A., through whose
influence he secured the seat. He is a Freetrader,
and so the Age opposed him strongly. Robinson’s
brother, George, made a “pot ” over W. A. scrip,
and has now a seat on London Stock Ex-
change, where he is reputedly coining money.
He owned at one time the racehorse fiainault,
and was for years a member of Melb. and Adel-
aide Exchanges. Both brothers are old Scotch
Collegians. Arthur is in partnership with “ Billy ”
Bruce, the lawyer and better-known cricketer.
The other Sunday, John Norton started
his paper with the big, black heading, “ The
Bawdy Bridal Bureau” (two cols.). A little
further on, he gratuitously printed a word which,
even in the most filthy police-court case, is always
written, never spoken—a word which, if published
by any paper with no political “pull,” would
instantly block it from passage through the Post-
office, and very likely get the publisher three
months’ hard. Next page, John yells (and smacks
his lips) through two cols, over (black type)
“ Beastly Bust-Developing, by Male Masseurs ”
—truly a shocking grievance, about which nobody,
or hardly anybody, ever heard before. And then,
in signing with his own name the column in which
he accuses Lord Beauchamp of “bilking” out of
her just compensation a girl whom his carriage
had injured in the street, he dates it “ Sydney,
Feast of St. Winifred, Virgin and Martyr.”
Now, why does John do such things? Because
he is a parson’s son, and can’t help it ?
A FITFUL MASH.
JACOBSON : “ Veil, Rebecca, vot you thinks of de
young man now?”
REBECCA: “ Oh, it feets him peautiful, father!
all the girls will fall in love with him.”
JACOBSEN: “ There, young man, I think you’d
better clear out, mine vife is struck on you.
Shoost you take de goat mit you.”
A DEEPER HELL.
HER: “Oh, I suppose it’s your bod conscience
that keeps you awake o’ nights.”
H IM: “ Worse than that, my dear, it’s my bad
digestion.”
“ A.B.T. ” writes :
Some time ago doubt entered the minds of many Ade-
laideans as to whether the remains of Col. Light were
really buried beneath the monument long since erected to
his memory. Records and journals of the time of his
interment were unearthed, and they promptly dispelled the
doubt. Meanwhile, the said monument, a memorable
piece of masonry, is fast crumbling to ruin. Problem :
If the perpetuation of the memory of Gov. Phillip was
worth £15,000 to the people of N.S.W., what should this
opportunity be worth to the people of Adelaide, compari-
sons not being regarded as odious ?
The perpetuation of Phillip’s memory certainly
cost the N.S.W. people £15,000 —in a word, that
big sum was, by a most disgraceful job, spent on
an alleged work of art which is simply a reproach
to the country. But it wasn’t “worth” £15,000
to N.S.W. to perpetuate the memory of its first
gaoler.
“Long-’Un”: Re that “mad freak” of
Skuthorpe’s in emulating poet Gordon’s sensa-
tional jump. Recently inspected the celebrated
spot and failed to find the alleged 250 ft. cliff on
the landing side. There is certainly a fairly steep
fall of about 45° for a number of yards (thickly
timbered) before coining to the cliff, and Dry Dog
Reid himself couldn’t wriggle through that timber
without a heap of luck ; moreover, many old resi-
dents affirm that Gordon never jumped at this
particular spot at all. Gordon’s widow, by the
way, married a Mr. Peter Low, until recently a
boundary-rider on Riddoch’s run, and now lessee
of Cannawigra Station Block, under S.A. Closer
Settlement Act. The eldest and buxom daughter
is supposed to be the only lady bagpiper in Aus-
tralasia —and long may she remain so !
Symon, Q.C., South Australia’s leading
lawyer, is destined to make an impression in
Federal politics. In figure and features ordinary ;
among any six men in repose, he would probably
attract least attention. An ivory-bald head,
small, round, clean-shaven features, eyes far from
attractive. But when he rises to speak, a trans-
formation : posture erect, head poised haughtily,
voice resonant, full of strength and courage. A
master of sarcasm, much enhanced by his ice-cool
assurance. Morally, Mr. Symon has shown him-
self the soul of honor. Years ago he was let in
heavily, but out of his income he has cleared him-
self of a debt amounting to a fortune. Which
recalls Sir Walter Scott, Mark Twain—and a
well-known Sydney barrister a* the head of an
unlucky company.
“ Itan ”.to The Bulletin :
I have seen the spot where Joe Governor was shot, and
the half-mile oourse run over by him with John Wilkin-
son in pursuit. It was, indeed, a lucky shot —a chance
in half-a-million. Joe gained nearly 300yds. on his pur-
suer in the distance, and Wilkinson had had three in-
effective shots. Then he aimed the fourth, at a target
which wriggled purposely, when the marksman was
pumped and nervous ; the bullet just entered the skull
far enough on the left side, close to the forehead, to snap
the cord. It was also by a fluke that Wilkinson saw the
fire —when he was returning from Sydney after hav-
ing decided not to go to the Manning in pursuit of the
blacks, as Jimmy had been caught and he thought that
Joe would soon be taken also. Luck, which had favored
the fugitives all along, turned dog on Joe at last, and the
two extremes of the jade were exemplified with captor
and captive. The top part of the skull and the brain, re-
moved and sent to Sydney University, were thought by
the Singleton police to ha,ve been buried with the corpse.
The police were the last to believe the report until the
Sydney' professor was interviewed by a reporter.
A writer in London Daily Chronicle
recently referred to the services in Fiji »
quarter-of-a-century back of Victor William-
son, C.M.G., who, after the annexation of the
islands, was appointed Special Commissioner
to adjust the claims to land made by white
settlers in the group. No men were ever more
heartily anathematised than were Williamson,
Gov. Gordon, and Col. Sec. Thurston at
this time by the white inhabitants. The
Lands Commission followed the tradi-
tional policy of the British Govt, on
such occasions, and dispossessed the
great bulk of the landholders of
what the latter considered to be
their property. In Victoria,
John Batman and others who
had obtained grants from the
natives were dispossessed;
and in Fiji people were only
permitted to retain what they
were actually occupying. The
Polynesia Cos., formed in Mel-
bourne, lost everything,
though it had paid £9OOO to
King Thakombau for its land.
The only successful appeal against
these decisions was that of Rabone,
Feez, and Go., of Sydney, who
happened to have a partner (Carl
Sahl) who was also Consul for Ger-
many. Sahl for himself and partners
demanded about £12,000 from the
British Government, and though
Thurston went to London to resist
the claim, about £7000 of the
amount was allowed as a com-
promise in preference to risking
a quarrel with Germany. Num-
bers of other people, including
storekeepers wiio had advanced on
the land, were ruined. Dr. Brower,
the American Consul, who had invested
a decent fortune in backing up struggling
cotton planters, left the country after 20 years’
residence practically penniless. In some instances
the titles were shaky, but the Lands Commission
erred seriously on the side of severity.
The father of the Australian BarisTownsend
M‘Dermott, of Ballarat (Vic.), who was “called ”
in Dublin in Nov., 1840, and in Victoria in ’54.
Mr. M‘Dermott was in his day an able criminal
advocate, and gave much attention to mining
cases. A Bar committee has been formed to pre-
sent him with a memento of his diamond jubilee.
In ’77 Gov. Weld (Tas.) ventured on a
mild prophecy which came true. A lot of Melb.
shareholders in a Launceston iron-mining co.
chartered a big steamer and crossed the Straits to
jubilate on the works, the expensive machinery
for which had just been completed. At the
champagne-luncheon they gave, His Ex. said he
did not wish to damp the ardour of his friends,
but he could not refrain from quoting the familiar
Hudibrastic couplet—
Alas, the perils that environ
All those who meddle with cold iron.
The co. failed in six months, the mine-product
having proved unmarketable.
Mayors and others prepared to lick the
boots of York may be reminded that servility is
not always appreciated by the objects of it.
There is a story to that point in the published
despatches and speeches of Gov. Bowen. When
the Duke of Edinburgh was out here he visited
Nelson, M.L. Bowen relates that the Mayor of
that place, at a public dinner, said, in a grovelling
manner common to Mayors, that the people of the
town were grateful for a visit to “such an insig-
nificant portion” of the Queens dominions.
Whereupon Edinburgh, whose sailor life had
probably given him some contempt for toadies,
remarked that he felt bound to correct the Mayor.
“The Queen,” said he, “ regards as insignificant
no portion of her Dominions, and no fraction of
her people in any quarter of the globe, least of all
a town called after that illustrious ornament of
the profession to which I have the honor to
belong.”
From Prof. Max Muellerjs obituary in
S.M. Herald, 30/10/’00:--
The son of William Muller the poet, Friedrich Max-
Muller was born at Dessau on 6 December, 1823. ... It
is now half-a-century ago that he was invited by the
University (of Oxford) to lecture on Comparative Philo-
logy. About this time he became Max-Muller, instead of
Muller, for some particular reason which is lost in the
years.
The Herald is in a fog of its own making. Fried-
rich Maximilian were the professor’s Christian
names, Mueller was his surname. “ Max ” is but
an abbreviation of Maximilian. “Muller” is
quite incorrect; the vowel “u ” should be replaced
by the diphthong “ue,” since the British com-
positor’s case contains no special symbol for the
German sound “ u.” The hyphenated “Max-
Muller” has no locus standi whatever, since Max
is not part of the patronym. The Professor’s
Christian name has been usually mentioned to-
gether with his surname to better distinguish him
from the multitude of other Mullers, the name of
“ Mueller ” being in Germany about as rare as the
name Smith is in Great Britain.
It’s just a year to-day
Since dear mother went away
That glorious majority to join.
Since we took off her wedding-rings
God put on her golden wings,
And high up in the heavens now she’s flying.


MACONOCHIE’S
PACK EACH YEAR MORE
FISH THAN ALL OTHER
BRITISH FISH PRESERVERS
COMBINED.
FrcSb NcrriogS
Kippmd Herripgs
HerriogS iO Tonjato SaG"
WATSON’S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lage
Hotel
Rates from 12/0 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
“ The Australia ” is nob a cheap
hotel. But it is the best hotel
in the Southern Hemisphere; and
you cannot obtain the comfort,
attention, table, and general ex-
cellence of “ The Australia ” any-
where else for 60 % more money.
J. SMITH, Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
he h!., V dg6 dldn fc kUgh afc the time > b »t
HeamlM “rj & hearfcy chuckle over it since,
hotel d a fr'K , g 6 W , er6 Stoppin £ at the “ leading
We’ i ° midnight he awoke and found a
JuS P r° n f Pyjamas shakin & U P his (the
It ’ll \ and , adjUring her to “Comeand
sh have nosher drink, Mishus Public-housh ? ”
The Judge asked the intruder if he knew who he
who r he drUnk ask6d his Honor if he knew
dered l r presentl J the wanderer mean-
l l ’- gr ° Wl ' ng - The landlady apologised
next morning, and said that when the intruder
was himself ”he was quite respectable. “ And
oTthing'”’ yer ° ner ’ rm S ° Carefui ab °nt that sort
<4
Tin t?i‘ S'l” />, Ke angora , g° ats ( B -1 3/11/’00).
rdSif-K-;- 3 J,. e was a .law in force in N.S.W.
lmPc?l-i;ation,m P c ? I- i ;a tion, and authorising the
destruction, of certain classes of goats, “that nro-
duced hinr used in or adapted for the manufacture
tW th ’ orother textile fabricsincluded amongst
fwho ai l? oras ; This Act was repealed in
tion Act e onmr ed /lf ar (Angora Goats Protec-
tion Act ot 1873), so there is now nothing what-
ever to legally stop their importation.
* >; • *
White parents in the bush
W P° ° bj . ect . to aboriginal children being taught
with theirs m the same State school are not to be
“ ai T jumped on, as certain members of
f W -P e^ja ive Assembly think they deserve
to be. Would these members accept seats beside
aboriginals at hotel dining-tables ? There is more
m this matter than sentiment, although even sen-
timent m this case is nature’s way of keeping races
from blending. But if black children are to be
debarred from using the same schools as white,
tlovernment must provide schools and teachers for
the young aboriginals. Where they are not
numerous enough in one locality to form a school
they should be centralised at some aboriginal re-
serve. °
*„ * * *
“Burt,” on certain aspects of the N.Q.
Chinese question :
i B ?S, W h ,? w the chows r nin the land one only has to
look at Freshwater Creek district (Cairns, N.Q.). The
soil is splendid, yet the Chow has left it a howling wil-
derness, covered with blady grass and burrs. The “land-
ora leases this land to the heathen at £1 per acre per
year for 10 years ; then the Chow moves on to take up
more land—and ruin that. They never clear the big tim-
her from the land, but plant bananas, corn, &c., between
cne fallen trees, and a plough is unknown, the hoe •’ Mng
the only implement employed. No one ever use's ,"he
A CHEERFUL SUGGESTION.
LITTLE GIRL (referring to rabbit-seller): “Oh, auntie,
that must be the horrid man that drowned our
poor pussy and all her kittens."
land after the Chow has left it; and instead of steamers
plying up the Barron River and healthy-looking farms
studding its banks, you see nothing but a played-out
desert. The richness of the soil in the Aloomba district
may be gauged from the fact that in 15 months it yielded
three crops of corn, 60 bushels to the acre at £9 per ton ;
yet this country is almost entirely in the hands of the
Chinese, to whom it is leased as aforesaid. A large por-
tion is also permanent Chinese property. It’s only a
matter of time till the Chow overruns N.Q. and owns it
altogether.
Peter K. : The common belief that the
fresh-water snake never leaves the water is an
error, due doubtless to confusion with the sea-
snake, which is entirely aquatic, being unable to
move on land. The sea-snake is ovo-viviparous,
the eggs being retained until fully developed.
A COMMON THING
OUT-BACK.
BOUNDARY-RIDER: " See
any stray stock along
the track, mate? ”
SWAGGIE : “No; only
wish I did. Haven’t
had a bit of mutton these four weeks. ”
One lung extends the whole length of the body,
whilst the other is small and practically useless,
and the tail is flat and rudder-shaped. There are
some 50 species of sea-snake—all highly venomous.
In the early British settlement
days of Borneo, when prisoners were
well-treated and gaols insecure, a cus-
tom prevailed by which his Excel-
lency pardoned one man each time
he inspected a prison. Once he par-
doned an aged lifer who’d inhabited
the local gaol for a dozen years. The
man was accordingly discharged, but
every day for a week he besought the
guard for an interview with H.E.,
which he eventually pained by stealth.
Greybeard then, with tears in his
eyes, bewailed his inhuman treat-
ment. For 12 long years he had
served the government faithfully, and
now he was dismissed without notice
or compensation. What had he done
to deserve such harsh treatment ?
Then the big man was moved to in-
quire as to the capacity in which the
pleader had so faithfully served the
Crown. “ Did I not stab Mr. Blank
at Kawang, and was I not to be kept
in the 1 tutupan ’ for life ? ” was the
plaintive rejoinder. Ten years later
this petitioner was still enjoying the
hospitality of the Crown. He, how-
eyer, lacked the enterprise of Ah
Sing, who was charged with the hein-
ous offence of breaking into gaol. Ah
Sing (he had done two years out of
seven) explained in the police court
that, having no money in gaol with
which to gamble, he got through a
hole in the fence and went down town
to borrow some. As he was re-enter-
ing the prison through the fence,
however, the sentry stopped him, and
much to his surprise locked him up in
the guardroom. Ah Sing was much
disgusted at being awarded 50 cuts
with the rattan, though it was some
consolation to him that the meddle-
some guard lost his billet.
* * * •
In N. Queensland there are
colonies of agricultural ants. These
little fellows take the ' grain down
into their formicaries, clean out the
farinaceous matter, and then carry
out the husks, which are left in a heap
round the openings of their nests.
Only one kind of seed seems accept-
able to them. The harvesting ant i 3
common in the neighborhood of many
coast towns. He is no friend to the
gardener, for he is a veritable pirate.
Cabbage, celery, carrot and tomato
seed (to say nothing of grass seed) are
all carted off to his little abode. The
germs of many weeds are also stored
up in subterranean bams, whence it
often happens that species which the
gardener thought he had exterminated
ap iP^ r ’ r specially after vigorous trenching.
Ihe little folk are well worth studying.
* * * *
“ W.J.” ; The iguana is not to be over-
looked as a venomous reptile. When one of the
bob-tailed, black-backed species bit a sheep on
the leg just below the udder, in less than 20min
the bitten animal was dead.
“ R.T. ” : “ How is it that
hares can enter wired-in enclo-
sures of green-stuff, but can’t get
out ? ” That’s easy. Puss can
jump in all right when empty ;
after a big feedshe can’t jump
out.
“ Yooc ” notes a development of thfc
kanaka in Queensland :
The kanaka is strongly in evidence in Ipswich district,
the Germans in that region are cane-growers, and there
is a sugar-mill near by. According to the agreement
entered into, the kanaka can onlv be worked in cane
sweet-potatoes, and pineapples, and a stiff fine is imposed
and the agreement upset if this condition is infringed.
The employer advances money to the kanaka at his own
risk ; and can be compelled to pay in full if the darkie
disputes or denies the advances. The kanaka is odiously
loathsomely servile. He finds out the gawspil-mill his
employer favors, and immediately becomes a regular
attendant thereat. Nine-tenths of the Ipswich Germans
are Methodists, and nine-tenths of the Tommy Tannas
employed by them are therefore professing ditto • several
are even local-preachers ! I’ve heard Tommy “ testify-
ing” that “Gezut Elite died on closs to save it me all
a-same it my master” ; and to hear the dusky crawlers
on Monday morning asking the “boss” to read them
tracts—given to them the previous day by sentimental
school-girls—is simply sickening. The kanaka is more to
be dreaded in Queensland than smallpox or leprosy
and, if he be not soon shifted, blood will be spilt for he
is supplanting hundreds of white men.
* * * *
Two bull camels had a desperate fight near
Mt. Magnet (W.A.) lately. When camels fight
in earnest they struggle for a sort of hammerlock
hold the object being to get the head over the
others neck and, pressing the latter down to
grasp and maim one of the forelegs. When this
is done the under beast falls with the toi
beast s knees on his neck usually ; and then the
top beast proceeds to tear strips off the other
While the fight proceeds they scream and scatter
foetid spume and bite savagely. The Mt. Mag-
net battle was ended by the drivers darting in
with axes and saplings ; by that time one of the
brutes had lost part of his nose and the other a
part of his tail.
• • • •
A little yarn from Hughenden tells how an
old lady of over 80 years, while collecting wood
was charged by a sick bullock which knocked her
down, tried to gore her and left her insensible
I hen the bovine departed and died almost
immediately.
Buying cattle once wayback I
struck a Scotch couple whose English was limited
from whom I bought a cow. Put the beast with
others in a paddock at a township a few miles
distant and found her gone in the morning. Con-
cluding she had made back home I rode thither
to inquire. Mrs. Mac. told me Norman was in
the paddock ploughing, and when I asked her
what brand was on the cow she placed her hand
uncompromisingly “aft,” and said: “She was
pranded ‘Norman’ here.” I next sought
-Norman, whom I asked what he had branded the
cow with. “ Och with myself,” he said. Shortly
ft TVT I *J the cow. She was branded
JNI on the rump.
* * * ,
“ E.M. ” : Be curiosity of emus. Was once,
near the Condamine, sitting on alog, with agirl wear-
ing a brightly-coloured dress. Several emus came to
investigate, and, as we sat perfectly still, by and
by a crowd of them came slipping through the
trees, and ringing closer and closer to us. When
they were within a few yards we sprang to our
feet with a shout, and you never saw such a
scatter.
* * ¥ ♦
“ H.S.” : Be the fatal curiosity of birds.
Water-hens and ducks can at times be drawn
quite close to anyone who can remain for a lon ol
tune in full view of them perfectly still and in any
but an upright position. Turkeys and emus can
also be brought close by almost anything uncom-
mon enough to attract their attention. In a small
jungle near Cambridge Gulf, N.W. Australia (at
my camp, in Rougemont’s cannibal country) my-
self and wife,found a bower-birds’ “playground,”
and sat down about four yards from it in a dense
shade. Ere long the birds came along and played
in and out of their beautifully-arched “bower,”
picking up and dancing with their toys, without
in any way noticing us.
* * * *
They have discovered “ beef measles ” in
a cow in South Australia —the first reported case
in Australia. The name suggests senna-tea and
a few days spent in blankets ; and because the
cow-disease is not in its nature anything like the
child-disease, it might have been better named.
“ Beef measles,” in fact, is the name given to the
disease in which the flesh of the animal is affected
by the eggs, of the tapeworm of man. A student
who ate a piece of measly beef developed a mature
tapeworm in eight weeks; and of two calves
which ate a piece of affected meat one died in
four weeks, and the other was badly diseased in
seven. Each mature joint of a tapeworm is esti-
mated to contain 9,000,000 eggs, and there are
from 1500 to 2000 joints in a worm !
'•****
To start a Big Load on Bush Tracks com-
petition. Brought into Warren (Western N. S. W.) a
week or two back, 100 dumped bales. Net weight,
18 tons 6cwt. ; gross, 22 tons. Carrier, W. Berry.
* • * #
“ Fairholm ” : A carrier’s horse in Dubbo,
N.S.W., recently pulled a load of wool weighing
(including waggon) 10 tons llcwt. Surely a re-
cord ! I have seen a horse pull tons several
hundred yards up the main street of Bourke, his
owner thereby winning a bet of £3O.
* • * »
In the advertised programme of Oxley
(Vic.) annual picnic appears : “ Cutting the fowl’s
head off, blindfolded.” Then follows the state-
ment: “The children’s holiday! Hip, hip,
hurrah ! ” No wonder Oxley district sent several
warriors to the Transvaal.
* » * ,
“ J.T.H.” : Re carnivorous wallabies.
I have a rosella parrot that is fond of raw
meat. Straight-out carnivores, such as the
felidae, always first drink the blood of their vic-
tims. The animal-tissues contain sodium and
potassium-salts, the continual elimination of which
is made up for by the in-take of food containing
them. The blood is especially rich in sodium-salts;
hence the blood-drinking referred to. But as
vegetable-tissues contain excess of potassium-salts,
the system of herbivores becomes over-supplied
therewith and starved of sodium ; the result being
a desire to assimilate some body—organic or in-
organic—which is rich in the necessary elements.
Probably, therefore, the wallaby and the parrot in
question consume flesh for the sake of the salt it
contains, and it is not likely that—were the
creatures in the wild state and thus free to select
their diet—any such craving would be felt.
A MAN'S POINT OF VIEW.
HISTRICNIC ARTIST (to theatre-manager): “Bo
all the ladies who want billets on the s’age
interview you, sir? ”
THE MANAGER : “ Oh, decidedly .”
H.A.: “No wonder you’re bald.”


ALL
SYDNEY
KNOWS
that if you wish the VERY LATEST novelty in Jewellery, of A 1 Quality
and at London Prices, 23 Hunter-street is its location. Our rapid turnover and
small expenses, as compared with London, enable us to sell at LQNDQIiT
Prices.
PLAIN FIGURES
LONDON PRICES
Fairfax & Roberts,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Solid Gold Brooch,
with Turquoise, 22/6.
Franz J osef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
ORDER
WHISKY
AND
BRANDY
AND
SCHWEPPE
Writes Harry Stockdale :
Mr. H. J. M‘Oooey (B. 3/11/’9O) says, “ I consider Mr. H.
Stockdale egregiously wrong in everything he has contri-
buted to The Bulletin on this subject ” (native burials).
In reply, let me say I have never written a word on this
or any other aboriginal subject that was not based on my
actual personal observation. M‘Gooey’s rash assertion
means so much to me that I am entitled to expect from
him that he should specify my inaccuracies and advance
adequate authorities for his views on the matter. As an
instance of Mr. M'Cooey’s own glaring inaccuracy, he
says (B. 11/2/’99), “the diamond-snake, bar color-mark-
ings, is strictly identical with the carpet-snake.” I say
(and I am supported by Krefft and Waite) that they differ
also in size and distribution—the diamond-snake being
lacking in many localities where the other is plentiful.
And again—What reliance is to be placed upon the state-
ments of a man who will assert—as M‘o. did in B. 27/1/00
—that he “ saw a smart young man of 24 pursued, over-
taken, and bitten, after a hard run of about 20 links, by a
superb tiger-snake, which he had quite unintentionally
cut in half with a scythe, while mowing hay.” To me, and
to numerous others —who have repeatedly chopped-in-
half tiger, black, and brown snakes, and found that,
though plenty of muscular action remained, locomotion
was practically impossible—this story is almost path-
etic in its absurdity. And I am prepared—if M'Cooey
cares to put the matter to the proof—to furnish numerous
instances in which equally gross—if less laughable—mis-
statements have been made by the man who so airily
charges me with wholesale inaccuracy.
• * * •
A. rather affluent Yic. farmer drowned
himself the other day. When the remains were
fished out a brief letter was found in the sodden
wreck of what had once been worth 7s. 6d. :
My wife has drove me to this. You will find this inside
the lining of my hat.
Deceased’s care, even at such a time, to explain in
the letter where the letter would be found, so
that after it was found the finder would know
where to look for it, is humorously pathetic. It
recalls another suicide whose great anxiety was
that he shouldn’t be buried in a perfectly name-
less grave, so ere hanging himself on an ironbark,
he pinned a paper to his shirt with the legend
“This is me.” And the finders took him down
reverently and said “It is.”
* * * *
An up country doctor in Maoriland was
attending a dairy-farmer’s child for typhoid. Cal-
ling one day he noticed that the patient was very
thirsty, and told the mother to give her some milk ;
whereupon she drew a full milk-pan from under
the bed, and gave the child some.
* * * *
“Lar ” : The squatter’s kiddies were play-
ing barefooted in a big hall covered with brownish-
yellow oilcloth, and were having great fun
watching the “ greenies ” (frogs) catching flies on
the walls (these frogs come into the houses up
North in droves in a dry season). Suddenly the
youngsters shrieked “Snake ! ” and, grabbing my
whip, I rushed in, found a death-adder in the
corner of the hall, and killed him with a couple of
cracks. The brute was exactly the color of the
oilcloth, and was only noticed through a kitten
“setting-up” at it. The frogs had been attracted
by the flies, and the snake by the frogs.
A SOLID INADEQUACY.
BIBULOUS CITIZEN (who has tapped an old friend for help)
“ Now, look, here, you know my failing and yet you put
temptation in my way like this. Threepence is only
good for beet—sixpence would have got me a good square
feed.”
In a N.W. Tasmanian town lives a man
furnished with a set of badger’s (wombat) teeth,
He annexed them from the jaws of a deceased
pet, and fitted ’em in himself.
“ Yang An-
yut ” : Re tacit
encouragement
of immorality
(8., 2 5/8/’00).
In Borneo—
British and
Dutch —as many
as 500 men are
employed on to-
bacco plan t a-
tions on which
reside less than a
score of females.
Latter are the
private property
of white mana-
gers and assist-
ants and Chow
“tandils,” or
overseers. To-
wards the end of
the year when
the crop has been
harvested and
shipped, there
comes a slack
time, and then a
house on the es-
tate is set apart,
and a dozen girls
—Chow, Jap,
and Javanese —
are brought up
to reside for a
fortnight. A
booking-office is
opened and en-
gagements made
days ahead for
particular hours.
The manage-
ment guarantees
a minimum
“taking,” fixes
rates, and gener-
ally supervises.
Government
shuts its eye, and
a fortnight later
a score of hollow-
eyed women re-
turn to town,
broken in health
but heavier in
pocket, while
the indentured
coolies resume
the daily round of toil.
• * •
One six-tooth grass-fed ram at Ohio,
Walcha (N.S. W.' ielded 281bs. wool.
“T.R.N.” : One of Cobb
and Co.’s old drivers on the
New England road told me
t’other day that he’d been
“stuck up” by bushrangers
three times. Once by Wilson,
who was, later, tried at Sin-
gleton. Coach had just crossed
a little creek with steep banks,
when Wilson stepped from
behind a tree with the cus-
tomary “bail up!” “or,” he
added “I’ll shoot one horse to
stop you, and then settle you.’’
“Right you are,” said the
driver. “Pass out your mail-
bags,” said Wilson. “ I reckon
you’re a new-chum at the
game, ” said the driver, “if you
don’t know there’s no mail to-
day.” “ None of your d d
sauce,” replied Wilson. “Got
any money?” “ Only half-a-
crown,” and the coin was pro-
duced. “Oh, keep it,” said the
other, “ you might want a
drink lower down.” The
driver had in his pocket at the
time £35 in notes, and got
safely away with them. . Wil-
son’s capture was curiously
effected. Three drovers—
Clarke, Conroy, and another
—were riding, the former a
little distance ahead. Wilson
appeared, and bailed him up.
Clarke was unarmed, but
grappled with Wilson, who,
in the struggle, managed to
shoot the plucky drover dead.
They fell together, and Wilson
had his victim’s death-grip
upon his beard when the others
came up, and the only way
Wilson could get a shot at them
was by firing between his arm
and body. They secured him
and he was hanged. A monu-
ment still stands to the mem-
ory of Clarke.
About 15 miles from Walcha,
on the road to Port Macquarie,
is a creek named after another
’ranger by the name of Wilson,
who long preceded Clarke’s
slayer. ’Twas at this creek that
the desperado “stuck up” a
squatter named M‘Nab. In-
stead of surrendering, M‘Nab
made off, and Wilson shot him
through the hand. M‘Nab then fell from his
horse, and Wilson took everything he had even
*9 hls bo °ts. This Wilson was afterwards shot in
lb cam P-
AFTER THE CUP—A BIT OF YARRA SCENERY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
De Moc; Yos; why shouldn’t everybody have
a free railway pass to attend the swearing-in of the
Gov.-General? The “ distinguished visitor ” who pays
nothing to the revenue gets a free pauper ticket. Why
shouldn’t the undistinguished local man who keeps the
country going be remembered a 150?.... J.R. : The newly-
married man who thought a stove lighted itself is too
wild a flight of imagination. Send us a yarn about the
man who thought a house habitually built itself
W.A.M. : The right emotion, but not enough of it
Fraulein : “ Constance Clyde ” said practically all of that
in a recent issue, and said it much more picturesquely.
A.G.T. : Put it down as “ Professional Jealousy.” By
the way, how could he be an authority on the merits of
the co. if he hadn’t heard the lady ? She appeared on
first night A.A. : Suggestion that Royalty should
be set scavenging received with horror A.J.J. :
Writing is a business like everything else, and you’ve
yet got to learn it L.G. (Rockhampton) : Truly a nice
question to raise in a paper of mixed circulation
8.0. : From what you say he was doubtless a good man,
but why don’t you write something of interest about him ?
Your story is too stodgy W.A.J. : You say you are a
J.P. That being so, your matter would probably be
valueless —especially as you *re foolish enough to put
forward your J.P.-ship as a literary qualification. J.P.-
ship is, on the other hand, usually a certificate of illiteracy.
Aloe: And still we cannot understand why a
workman who has the necessary sixpence shouldn’t buy a
glass of beer and a sandwich on his only day of rest
L.C.B. : Manna and fire-making-b.v-friction subjects done
with.. . .Macroto :An obvious madman. We got a lot of
letters from him, and finally turned them over to the
police as evidence that he needed looking after... .Fax. :
If G. Reid’s bogus statistics were ignorance he couldn’t
always blunder in favor of his own side of the case, so
that charitable suggestion goes up a tree C.P. (Maori-
land) : Article on Seddon’s swelled head too long. You
must learn to put a swelled elephant in half the space.
This is only a small paper..... F.P. (Melb.) : Many thanks,
but it would make the series too long to go into such
matters. There is only time to deal with a few of the
largest questions... .G.E.L. : Chiefly L.... A.R.B. : Could
write a better fire-yarn with half-a-match and the back
of a sermon on Sbeol... .F.L. : A quaint knave ; but we
can’t afford to libel him in that clumsy way A.V.L. :
Jos. Syrnes has alienated a lot of his supporters by raving
blessings on big Britain for smashing the little Boer re-
publics. He’d give millions for British freethought, but
not a cent, for general human freedpm. Poor old Joel
.... Melborno : All things considered, the 1197 votes
polled for Munro, even against such a political dodo as
Duncan Gillies, were a lamentable fact. Allowing that
the old boomster was an unfortunate boomster, deserving
of some sympathy in his private capacity—what has he
ever done to justify the reinstatement of such a dis-
credited public man as himself ?... .C.W.S. : You can
cure the average dipsomaniac when you give him a new
nervous system—and not till then.... Rufus : Only shows
what a power the bauble is. The ordinary man, judging
from his love of titles and parrot-colored uniform, and his
yearning for medals and things to hang all over his
chest, has just as much silly vanity as any woman
E.O.W. : The pressman who writes a good legible fist has
a 95 per cent, pull on the man who doesn’t. His copy
gets read every time ; the other man’s doesn’t get read
at all, unless lie has at first try shown himself to be a
genius. But there is a remedy—the type-writer. Try it.
....R.F.C. (Havelock, M.L.): There are one or two
errors in your calculations. Maoriland is paying on the
average nearly 4 per cent, on its debt, so there is lots of
room for the Commonwealth to do a big conversion
operation. (2) For a long time back these States have
been able to borrow more cheaply in Australia than in
England, though some of them kept going to London,
apparently from force of habit. We had the ridiculous
spectacle a few months ago of N.S.W. selling 4: per cent.
Treasury bills at a big discount in London, while it was,
and long had been, selling 3 per cent, inscribed stock at
par in Sydney. Then it immediately sold 3$ per cent.
Treasury bills in Sydney, at a better price than the 4 per
cents, fetched in London. When Britain itself has been
floating a loan in New York, Britain is a nice promising
place for Australia to raise a 3 per cent, loan in just now.
When did any of these States last get money in
London at 3 per cent.? Just look at the loss
on Maoriland’s last loan for its Advances to Settlers ....
P.W.D. : Simply amounts to this : the Sydney earners
carters —who, as a body, work 15 hours out of the 24
are very reasonably asking that, “as business people
cannot agree among themselves on any particular times
for receiving parcels, Government shall fix the hours of
carters at 10 hours per day, or 60 per week.” Only 10
hours per day! P. H.C. ■ Lacks artistic restraint.
Emphasis is not force ; and a better effect would be pro-
duced with less straining... .Lettie L. : Has a certain
cleverness, and ends rather well ; but is generally sug-
gestive of the futile mouthings of Ouida... .Nurse Pansy :
Good enough in its way, but too long, and otherwise un-
suitable to Bulletin C.M.E. : “Dummy” yarn too
labored Helen I. : Sorry still unsuitable. Lacks
power and pith.... V.CJ. : Printed for its truth
....Felix Hopper: A pinch for stale news! Byron
(Melb.): Already commented 0n... .F.M.P. : None force
enough Invicta : Matter of opinion, isn’t it .
C.W.K. : Scientists seem agreed that the North Pole is on
water and the South on land.. . .E.O.A. : We aren’t tak-
ing any soribble-on-hlotting-paper R.T. : You could
put every item in half the space.... W.O. (Ny.) : “ Oould
we buy a ledger of poetry from you—about 100 pieces ?
They are all my own productions. Three or four of them
are local, some are war-anecdotes, some are letters, and
about five of them are songs. The rest are about various
other things too numerous to mention. A number of
them are about interesting things out of the papers.”
Sorry to say no—we never buy poetry by the ledger-full.
Thank Heaven this world stili contains people so innocent
that it would be cruel to jibe at them.... Yarrum : Bark-
stripping birds done with. Once more, don’t roll your
MS., or ! G. Gam. : No, it’s not drivel; but it has no
special merit Karl C. : Too long-winded, and the
wrong-envelope-device is hackneyed... .D.L.S. : Eight
paralysing lines :
STARVIN’.
Oh, it’smarchin’ down to George-street,
An’ it’s lookin’ in the shops ;
An’ it’s standin’ near a cook-house
Just to smell the savoury chops ;
An’ it’s watchin’ people eating
Where they sells th’ sixpenny meal,
While a galling pain of hunger
Somewhere inside we feel.
Then it’s back again to King-street,
With th’ bobbies at our heels ;
An’ along the Park to Redfern
Where we hopes to get our meals.
When a cove’s too proud for begging,
An’ he’s got no bloomin’ stuff,
Oh, th’ bobbies soon will find him,
An’ the beaks ’ll make it rough.
Six months’ hard the beak ’ll give ’im,
And although it’s not too sweet,
Yet they often find it better
Than this starvin’ in the street;
For they have their bread and porridge
An’ a bed when it is dark,
An’ they find they’re better toilin’
Than when loafin’ in the park.
So I drank off a glass of cold water
Which is more than most heroes dare do
This shows what Australians can do
Even when rump steak is fivepence per pound
He was a Soldier of the Queen sir
He’d charged on many a hotel bar
You may think I am a lunatic sir
But the fact is if I ain’t you are
.... Killenna : Better say nothing about it under all the
circs A.G.T. :“ I hope what I may send will he of in-
terest to your readers and principal to myself.” That’s
promising, anyhow... .Abaris : Bulletin doesn’t print
long-winded apologues... Billabonger : Neatly versed
and good in spots, hut on the whole too long and flat....
Dying of Starvation.
TERRIBLE STATE OF AFFAIRS IN
SYDNEY.
pitiful tale, surrounded by distressing
circumstances, has been unfolded to a Sydney
reporter by a lady at Mosman’s Bay, which aptly
illustrates the fact that in the midst of plenty
there may be want.
The lady—a Mrs. Cordelia Norris, residing at
“Alton,” Shadforth-street, Mosman—is highly
reS pg C t e( i by all the neighbours for miles around.
, • “ , ,y _ • j +y. 0
Looking at me now, said Mrs. Norris to t e
reporter, you would scarcely believe that com-
paratively a short time ago I almost died of
starvation. Owing to the heat I _ had become
an£em i c> This brought on indigestion. I could
ne j tk er drink tea nor eat potatoes or meat; even
. . , , , __
a mouthful of food earned me hou s o g y.
After the lightest meal a leaden weight seemed
pressed between my chest and back bearing me
down and causing incessant pain. My face and
bands were shrunken and bloodless and each bone
„ p u pd „ pr>nr „4. p i v qu If > aou t e oains between mv
ached separately, xne acme pains i e ee y
shoulder blades felt as if the flesh was being torn
away. I used to pace up and down the room al-
most going mad with agony. Eits of retching
were followed by complete prostration. If I
walked up an i no li ne alarming heart palpitation
T wnc . Whined to a skeleton eould not
came on. 1 was reduced to a skeleton, could not
sleep, and was fairly dying of starvation for I did
not dare to eat. I tried numberless remedies for
indigestion, but without obtaining relief. One day
j read how a lady had been cured of indigestion by
D Williams’ pink pills. I procured a supply
, £1 j +t q„l Three boxes
anc * f? ave them a steady trial, -three boxes
brought about a great improvement. I began to
eat and digest my food. My face became colored
-with health and my frame filled out. I continued
j) r Williams’ pink pills until quite cured. I now
i- i flTld no :n p «w R follow Mv
rel . isn ® alS .f“ a . ?° ui ? ? * U
veins are filled with rich red blood and every ache
and pain has left me; even m the hot weather 1
enjoy good health.”
There is a vicious circle in disease. Anaemia
j eads indigestion, and indigestion may cause
• Tf „„ f ’i „ T .,i PTIT .F O k the blood—for
anaemia, it we teed ana enrich the oiooa ror
which Dr. Williams pink pills are especially
famed—we check the anaemia, enable ourselves to
get full benefit from our food, and avoid or cure
indigestion, sluggish liver, biliousness, debility,
yjtus dance, neuralgia, paralysis, etc. Dr.
wdl - , n : T .u ’ : lls „ rp ’ i.'j hv chemists and
Williams pink pills are sola by chemists ana
storekeepers, and by the Dr. Williams Medicine
Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and nine per
box, six boxes fifteen and three, post free,
Directions: “ How to Cure Indigestion ” free on
re ouest


" THE BAILIFFS ARE IN."


The Premier says he cannot accede to a request
to give small sums of money to remote country
.towns for Commonwealth celebration?.
VAp r //s to '
ccf° tavieti f«fs
<%/- /'OUo/rpss
Ae'ff/yavA-% Aatifi
'after fit d
' rf/s i* ml
Sar&d s-Sllj
i *v-
n 0 /0 W
stl 4*ri
iUe o£
y/orti
D/iaj fl'toMon*
LONDON, ■ Monday.-—The Dutch cruiser
Guelderland, with ex-President Kruger on
board, has arrived at Jibuti, a French port
on the Gulf of Aden.
It has already been reported that Mr.
Kruger was very sea-sick on the voyage
from Delagoa Bay.
7/ *&n<t o'/yt'ffhrp
oj- SfiA-f/C/C
CLt\c(
fronjp s/e{.
The Premier recently caused a cable to be
sent to tlfe Secretary.of State for the Colonies
asking that a crack military band might ac-!
company the Imperial troops. Yesterday a
reply was received stating that "the band of the
Highland Light Infantry has been included in
■the force.”
Sr SfEfcE! /f
7/ferf
/ S an/q&<t
/o/Aes y° u
'ear**, y<° ?a>/>/>'9%
//)
j^-00/c ere s 7v-r'y' er , 'r
y?r /ya.T7f~76 fz'yuor uy£>
y:/?<ojpse #/ Yea'S?
/fcaye 7*7? oTy&Tpsy
c7a //~ "
sir Wiliam Lyne: X think so, . . . . .
we *have sent, home special orders for wine,
etc. (Laughter.)' A
0 yJs/arasTw^f'^"^."
CZZ4A/ ZSm/zv A A/oAsp-
S*-ye oft/ rzs'ufo;
WILLNoT WASH CLo-fHFS.
■Whatever Mr. Retd's political' errors or
shortcomings may have been In -the past
the memory of them should be blotted out by
the splendid service he is now rendering to.
the cause of Australian democracy.
t> -T> ■ Tec&q f{jn pp -=
£ uf- O uy
Brief)/ - ; you doi)t~
hf'ifse our^af
Yes- no ly/KK 1 ,
—~fje Old 1)0) 1)0.$ ujo tip
O f'jl) *2' a J) ' oA f ,t ) o^
(eft- hjC f-o do /Jij S„ y *nore
o-i reseat jf n ) truly
hhi UwDbKsTufly
CARTOONISTS.


rpo BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY
A POLICY
for the
COMMONWEALTH
Being: a reprint of a large number
of articles from <<The Bulletin,” in
which this paper has attempted to
outline a solvent, honest and demo-
cratic policy for Federated Aus-
tralia.
Price 6d.—post free.
Supplied direct from The Bulletin office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any Aus-
tralasian province).
Sole Wholesale Agents:
EDWARDS, DUNLOP & CO. LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane.
h
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
AlL S c S f£ n . S and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites
o . _ , Invigorating in Hot CM mates,
restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales-
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
ĥ
ħ
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
C ™!L h ’in« onohitlB J. Hay Fever > ABt hma,
Golds, Influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
t> • Book of Treatment , Free.
Price of Medmator (size, 4 inches long-, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin -f I
Nasal Ointment, only I *J/ m p ost Free
HOME CATARRH CURE CO.
231 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
RARE
MOIS
English.
French.
German.
Large catal. 2/-, with photo.
Miniat. Parisian ladies.
APPY & CO., 65 R. Pigalle, PARIS.
h
has stood the test
FOR AGES..
SAUCE
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Agents—VlßGOE, SON * CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN k CO., Sydney.
XMAS
I N view of the close proximity of Xmas anrl the
-*■ Commonwealth Celebrations, we would
impress upon gentlemen the absolute necessity
of placing their orders for
SUITS TO MEASURE
as soon as possible.
Our assortment of Suitings is, as usual,
IMMENSE, and as we send Patterns FREE to
any addrcsj, if you cannot call in, please write.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
FEDERAL TAILORS & CLOTHIERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PiTT ST., SYDNEY.
(You will be very silly if you do not procure
your Xmas requirements at once to avoid
the rush at Xmas.)
ESTABLISHED 55 YEARS,
FOR SALE 3 Strand Wire,
suitable for fencing, 4,6, 10g.,
12s. cwt.; Roofing Felt, 75ft.x32in.,
Bs. roll; Tar Paper, 4s. roll; 500 tons Bolts and
Nuts up to 36in. long; Hex Nuts up to 4in. ;
Black, Galvanised, Steam Piping, up to Bin. dia. ;
Soft Soap, for Wool-washing, 14s. per cwt. ; Tar,
in sgal. drums, 3s. per drum ; Good Quality Hand
Pumps, from 6s. each ; Galvanised, Gutter, Ridge
Cap, down pipe, slightly touched, 9d. 6ft. length ;
Milk Dishes, 20in. 13s. 6d., 22in. 15s. doz.; Blue Wire
Dish Covers, 16s. doz. ; Black, Green, Slate, Blue
Paint, 18s. per cwt. ; Marine Paint and Priming,
20s. per cwt. ; Slightly-damaged Wire Nails, from
1$ t° bin., 9s. cwt.j Copper Boilers, up to 120 gals .;
Copper Boilers, 25gals., 355. each ; Bullock Bows,
Id. lb., j Chains, 2d. lb. ; Bullock Leading Drag,
Back Chains, 2d. lb. ; Navvy and Road Picks,
18s. doz. ; Shovels, 18s. doz. ; Utica Washing
Compound, 9s. cwt, ; Rabbit Traps, 9s. doz. ; Hay
Knives 3s. 6d. each, Hay Forks Is. 3d. each, Hoes
Handled Is. 6d. each ; Wooden Split Pulleys,
20in.x2?j and 3in. face, ss. each ; Comb Plates for
Sheep-shearing Machinery, 2s. 6d. doz. ; Snaring
Wire, 3d. lb. ; Pinfire Revolvers, 6s. each.
Builders and Contractors, Engineers,
Plumbers and Gas otters, Cabinet-
Makers and General Ironmongery
and Painters’ Material.
One of the Largest Stocks of Ironmongery in Australia.
JIM mm S SOIS,
WHOLESALE & RETAIL IRONMONGERS,
307, 321, 325, 278, 280 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
Music Worth Playing.
Songs Worth Singing.
ĥ
Allan’s . .
Australian
Music . .
Books . . .
Should find a place in every home. They contain music
that is good and popular. Every piece has been carefully
chosen.
Ho. 19.—Pianoforte
Pieces.
England Fantasia
Bernard Hill
Ohapel in the Mountains
Wilson
Fairy Yalse Beissiger
Norwegian Bridal Proces-
sional March Grieg
S6r6nade des Anges KinJcel
March in Scipio Handel
Sweet By-and-By Wyman
Adieu ‘ Dusselc
Le D6sir Cramer
Spring Song(Friihlingslied)
Mendelssohn
March from Masaniello
Auber
No. 20.—Pianoforte
Pieces.
Scotland Fantasia
Bernard Hill
Heather Bells Polka
Kunkel
Preams of the Past Sudds
Hunting Song Schumann
Edelweiss Lange
Tripping thro’ the
Meadows Wilson
Minuet Grieg
Une lteve du Ciel Kinkel
Rosamunde (ballet music)
Schubert
Silvery Echoes Blake
Entr’acte Humoresque
E. L. Hime
Une Petite Fleur Foss
Weber’s Last Yalse Weber
No. 21.—Favorite Song's.
Simon the Cellarer Hatton
The Diver Loder
Sing Me an English Song
Wrighton
Mill Wheel Volkslied
In Cellar Cold German
Draw the Sword, Scotland
Rodwell
The Old Sexton Russell
The Pilot Nelson
The Outlaw Loder
Scotland Yet McCleod
Napolitane Alexander Lee
She Wore a Wreath of
Roses Knight
To Anthea Hatton
Price I/- ; or Posted, IJ2.
Contents of Nos. 1 to 52 sent free for the asking.
Obtainable at all Musicsellers throughout Australia or
direct from the publishers, ’
ALLAN & CO. 276 & 278 Collins-st.,
Proprietary Ltd. Melbourne.
4-
e>
OLD
RNs
SUNBIJ
fing
■*l
CHA
DS
V
&iC
2yv£
s
Y
b, ?tors 4
In Search of Health.
Is it not gross fool-hardiness for people in con-
firmed ill-health or having incurable ailments to
take a long and wearisome journey with the
expectation of “getting well”? Though the ad-
vice of a physician may warrant a trial, in nine
eases out of ten the patient dies soon after reach-
ing a foreign shore, or languishes through months
of pain and suffering. Home and its assured
comforts are sacrificed for the perfunctory attend-
ance of strangers. A change of scene, the
invigorating ozone of the ocean, with the stimulus
of excitement are the ignes fatui of hope. The
reaction that follows not infrequently proves
suddenly fatal, and life goes out before the anxious
friends can say adieu. Efforts to prolong human
life are laudable and right, and hope stimulates
affection to do any and everything to keep loved
ones with us. But these journeyings and travels
are questionable, as recent cases plainly show, and
the high and the lowly are brought back to the
homes that could have afforded them great
comfort, only to be again carried forth to their last
resting place.
Mrs. Teresa Nolan, of Fitzroy-street, Tam-
worth, N.S.W., was ordered change of climate,
but she was so fortunate as to hear of a better
remedy. Writing on 25th September, 1900, she
says: “I owe my life principally to Warner’s
Safe Cure. I suffered for years in New Zealand
from bronchitis and lung complaint, and have
been in the District Hospital in Wellington three
different times. At last I was ordered to a warm
climate, but I still suffered much with pains in
my chest and back. One day I read a pamphlet,
and thought I would try Warner’s Safe Cure.
After I had taken the first bottle I found myself
stronger, and continued till I had used seven
bottles. I then came out to N.S.W., and am now
in perfect health. I earn my living by selling a
hair restorer of my own recipe and make, and am
walking about most of the day. lam well known
in the district, and I always recommend Warner’s
Safe Cure.”*
It was proposed recently in Queensland As-
sembly (by Givens, M.L.A. for Cairns) that,
“in the interest of this State, it is necessary and
desirable to pass a Bill for the purpose of prohibit-
ing the leasing of agricultural lands to aboriginal
natives of Asia and the Pacific Islands.” The
mover told an interesting tale of fertile acres de-
pleted by a band of yellow aliens who work seven
days a week (no holidays are taken), and who
ultimately leave the district that enriched them to
spend their golden hoard in distant China. Pre-
mier Philp showed himself a vigorous Chow advo-
oate. The Chinese, he averred, were preparing
N.Q. for the white man by clearing the land.
Moreover, “the Chinese have made Cairns the
prosperous place it is at the present time.” Pre-
mier Philp is evidently profoundly convinced of
the inability of the white man to grow his own
cabbage or to feed himself properly; and inasmuch
as the white race tolerates Philp and his Minis-
try, the Q. Premier has probably some grounds
for the contempt he manifests. Alien-coddler
Cowley grew very warm on the subject. The
motion above-mentioned would actually shut out
“ aboriginal natives of Asia, British subjects, men
who had fought and bled for the Empire.”
Naturally such a motion aroused the deepest in-
dignation on the part of Cowley, who represents
a district peopled by perhaps the most varied and
mingled inhabitants on the face of this earth. In
short, the Philpocracy fought valiantly for its
smellful alien ; took him to its bosom ; kissed him
fervently again and again, and blessed God for
having made him. Wherefore the great heart of
the Cairns district rejoices still in the prospect of
a long vista of unbroken Chow-made prosperity.
Wanted a Democratic Leader.
Certain recent speeches by Edmund Barton
should almost convince the Proteotionists of
Australia that it is time to look for a Federal
leader. The question on which the first
Federal election must needs turn is aggres-
sive Liberalism and Protection v. Toryism
and the mongrel thing which its disciples call
Freetrade. Whatever the original intention may
have been things are shaping to make these re-
sults inevitable. George Reid, the man who kept
on so many Protective duties while he was Free-
trade Premier of N.S.W., has appointed himself
leader of the shoddy party of reaction, and is pur-
suing the campaign with a vigour of unscrupulous
misrepresentation which must needs make con-
verts among the unthinking multitude that
takes its facts at second-hand, and veri-
fies nothing, and believes what the last
man told it. Because Edmund Barton is a Pro-
tectionist, and because he was so conspicuous
among the makers of the Constitution that no one
•cares to reach out for his position, the Protec-
tionist and Liberal party has been waiting for
him, and waiting too long. Yet Barton, despite
his great services to Federation, has never been
conspicuous as a Liberal, and he would probably
be about the worst leader a truly Liberal party
•could have. And apparently he is only a dilet-
tante Protectionist at best—a man who believes
and is tired. His recent speeches have dealt
with the necessity of electing men to the Federal
Parliament who will preserve and worship the
beautiful Federal Constitution. He has said
practically nothing about the need for electing
any save the kind of men who will preserve
and worship the beautiful Federal Constitu-
tion. He breathes an atmosphere of Rest;
the prevailing note of his addresses is that
the work is finished, and now the great duty
is to gather reverently about the ark of the
Covenant and admire the loveliness and polish of
its surface. In reality the work has only com-
menced, and there is no time to admire the polish
of the machine; the question now is to see that
the right men get hold of the handle and set the
machine working in the right direction. The
Federal Constitution is in no danger; the Aus-
tralian people have their eye on it. It doesn’t
want passive reverence. The leader that is wanted
is a man who will fight for the national and demo-
cratic policy of Protection to the bitter end, who
has common-sense ideas about taking over the
railways; consolidating, converting, and paying
•off the public debt; about preserving the Federal
territory from the grip of the syndicator
and land-grabber; about keeping down future
borrowing; a man with workable theories
about a graduated land tax, an absentee tax,
an old - age pension system, a State Bank.
State Life Assurance Department, exclusion of
•cheap colored labor, about Federal railway exten-
sion, a Federal Land Bank, about Labor problems,
wages, and a multitude of other essentials. Loyal
adherence to the new Constitution won’t supply
the want of a workable progressive policy. The
Liberal and Protectionist party needs a leader
who is glad the fight is to begin; not one who is
glad the fight is over. It is for these reasons that
The Bulletin’s thoughts ever turn towards that
untiring fighter and untiring democrat, Kingston,
of South Australia. He has his eye to the future;
not to the past. If the Liberal and Protectionist
party waits too long _ for Barton, the result
will be that while it is admiring the machine
the ruinous gang of Freetrade borrowers
will get control of the working of it.
And the most beautiful constitution on earth
won’t make Australia prosperous if the adminis-
tration of affairs gets into the hands of men who
believe that Australia’s destiny is to hump bales
and boxes on and off ships, and to be a wharf-lumper
all the days of its life, and to float big loans, and
slave wearily through all the centuries to pay
interest to absentees—and reverence its Constitu-
tion in between whiles.
-♦
“ Jophet” on a difficult subject:
Sydney Sunday Times has spread itself on the great
Population Problem.” The world can now go to sleep
on the subject; the Hen Oracle has spoken, and great is
the cackle thereof. The suppression of preventive prac-
tices is impossible, says the shemale organ. There was a
time when people said the sale of sword-sticks could not
be suppressed, and the booming industry of the knuckle-
duster was beyond the power of 'the law. And
yet to-day the sword - stick is obsolete, and the
knuckle-duster is a rarity and generally home-made.
1 revention ” depends to a very large extent upon
the sale of the means to prevent: and where the
general public know a man sells the means to prevent, the
police must know too. Make the sale of preventives
punishable by heavy fine, the person giving the informa-
tion to get half the fine, and it would soon cease to pay
to sell the nefarious instruments and drugs. It is
only a question of the State, by means of its police
taking off its coat and settling down to it earnestly. Where
the State doesn’t even interfere with the abortionists who
openly advertise their business in the papers it is too soon
to call the abolition of such practices impossible. The
whole practice, as far as it affects the growth of the
population, can he reduced to a minimum by making it
exceedingly dangerous to indulge in abortion and pre-
vention while making it easy and inexpensive to have
children. Let the penalty for the sale of preventives be
as suggested above, and on the other hand
let the State establish absolutely free mater-
nity - hospitals, where all officials are sworn
to secrecy with heavy penalties for being garrulous,
also State Foundling Hospitals to rear the otherwise un-
provided-for children in the way they should go, both
these institutions to be run on the “ no questions asked ”
system. Judging by Ooghlan’s statistics, about 90 per
cent, of the women would then have children. When the
very proper female, and the old women of both sexes who
prate about encouragement of vice, have been suppressed,
this will probably come about, and the N.S.W. abor-
tionist will probably go up King-street, and the population
will increase by leaps and bounds. When married women
fail to do their duty it is time to give the unmarried lady
a chance to step into the breach. According to Coghlan
the unmarried lady is quite willing.
A Cold Bath at Christmas.
If the story published in one of the Dublin
papers in June, 1899, had been about a man in-
stead of a woman, Miss J. E. Rogers might have
believed it just the same; but she would not have
listened to the reading of it with the same
interest. One always likes to hear his favourite
song—even when performed by a hurdy-gurdy—
but he enjoys it best from the mouth of a singer
whom he admires.
Very well then. Now, I want to tell you what
led up to the reading of that story in the Dublin
paper, and what the result of it was.
Miss Rogers lived in Dublin, at No. 45, Bloom-
field Avenue, South Circular Road, a well-known
neighborhood, a mile and-a-half or so from the
centre of the city. She is a fine-looking lady,
and the house she occupies is her own property.
Her native place is Cork, from which she and her
sister removed to Dublin in the autumn of 1898.
It seems Miss Rogers had been an invalid
nearly all her life—indigestion and the ailments
that commonly go with it —and it was because the
a * r of , Dublin suited her better than that of Cork
that she made the removal.
«< V 1 * as on Christmas Day, 1898,” she savs,
that I did a very foolish thing; I took a cold
bath. It chilled me through and through ; my
whole body ached, and from that day till June,
I was se^om fr o 6 from pain. Nothing
would stay on my stomach except milk with a
little whiskey in it. I could not digest even a bit
of bread or chicken.
“ Eminent Dublin doctors said that, except for
the stomach debility, I was a perfectly sound
woman, yet they were unable to help me. I
seemed to be wasting away. Before this illness I
weighed eleven stone, but in June last I had gone
down to eight stone four pounds—a loss of thirty-
eight pounds.
“My face was sallow and drawn, and I looked
so bad you would have fancied I had buried all my
friends. I was so conscious of this that I rarely
went out of doors. Life was a misery. It was a
trouble to eat or drink, to lie down or sit up—
everything was a trouble. My stomach felt as if
a thousand insects were gnawing it, and the pain
m my side and back was fearful.
“As for the hope of a cure by means of medi-
cines, I believed I was already far beyond that.
Often I felt so miserable and tired of life that I
threw' myself on the bed and cried for hours,
praying God to take me out of my trouble and
give me peace and rest.”
full - of P athos is- It reminds us of
Mrs. Browning’s “ Cry of the Human.” It tugs
at our heart-strings as a tempest does at the
branches of a tree, and makes our eyes leak in
sympathy. But a better time was coming, al-
though, m the darkness of her suffering and des-
pair, the poor lady saw it not.
“In June of last year (1899),” continues Miss
Rogers, after six months of this terrible experi-
ence. my sister read to me from a Dublin paper
an account of the cure, by Mother Siegel’s Syrup
of a woman who had been afflicted just as I was'
For a'Week I resisted my sister’s urging that I
should try this remedy ; then I gave up and said
‘yes.’
“ How grateful I am now that I yielded ! After
the very first dose food—solid food—stayed on
my stomach. I then took the syrup three times
a day. In less than ten days I was free from
pain, the nasty taste was gone from my mouth,
the fur disappeared from my tongue, and life
began again to have an interest for me.
Presently, as I kept using this marvellous
medicine from day to day, my spirits rose like
the mercury m a barometer on the return of fine
weather, and I once more enjoyed society and—
think of the change \—went out on my cycle , as I
never thought to do again.
Then I began to put on flesh famously, and
since I commenced taking Mother Seigel’s Syrup
I have regained twenty-eight pounds—within ten
pounds of all I lost.
, ‘‘ Bu *l have written enough, albeit it sounds
dull and tame as a description of my sufferings.
Under God s blessing I owe my life to this remedy,
and it shall never want for words of praise while
IV ®* r^°-? a y lam better and stronger than
ever before m my life.”
The above statement was signed by Miss Rogers
January 16th, 1900, in the presence of Mr. R H.
Morns, 17, Clare-street, Dublin, a Commissioner
ho administer Oaths in the Supreme Court of
Judicature m Ireland; and it is certified to by
(among others) Mr. A. Foott, of 46, Longwood
Avenue, South Circular Road, Dublin.
The Dublin papers are ably edited and contain
much excellent reading, but I will wager my wig
that they pnnted nothing more useful last sum-
mer than the article read to Miss Rogers by her
sister.


YOUR Wedding Presents can be Supplied by A. SAUNDERS,
The
Reliable
Jeweller & Silversmith.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT, —Floral China, real
Silver-plated Mounts, 20s.
Similar designs, 15s, 255, 30s. Very
pretty and acceptable present.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ FRIEND.—Pure Solid Eilver
Mounts, 18s 6d.
Very useful and acceptable pre: ents.
I
9—^-e
mfim
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, with Silver-
plated Mounts and Handles, 30s.
Similar, 20s and 255.
Pretty Floral China, 255, 30s, £2 and £2 10s.
h
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SETS.—Pure Solid Si'ver, Chased
Mounts, 15s; larger sizes, 20s, 2£s, and 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, nicely Chased with pretty Red
Glass 12s 6d ; with Fluted Edges, Its Cd ;
Double Jam, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, 16s 6d ; Chased as
above, 20s, 255, and 30s. Post free.
A
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER.—Pure Silver Electro-plated on
White Metal, nicely chased, 8s 6d. Round, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS.—Silver-plated Stand, Colored Glass,
with Spoons, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER.— Beautifully Chased and Orna-
nented pure Silver, Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, 15s 6d. Large size, 20s.
Four o'clock TEA SET with Clovers, pure Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, first-class English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Styles, £2, £2 15s, £3, £3los, £4.
Ladies kindly call and see our Beautifully-stocked Showrooms.
A. SAUNDERB.
EGG CRUETS, pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, beautifully
Chased, 30s, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
Cheaper Style, 20s and 265.
Handsome and Useful Present.
A. BAUNDERB.
4-bottle Lunch or Dinner OBTJET, pure
Silver Electro-plated on hard White
Metal, 21b. Similar Styles, 255, 80s, 86s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE DISHES.—The very best finished pure
Silver Electro-plate, in various patterns.
20s, 22s 6d, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 o’clock TEA SPOONS and TONGS in Silk-Lined Case,
Embossed, 12s 6d. Extra Quality, 15s, 20s, 255.
The Silver-plate we guarantee to give every satisfaction.
In Pure Solid Silver, 0 Spoons only 255, with Tongs
30s, 358, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOLDING BISCUITS.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Can be used tor Cake or Sandwiches.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BlSCUlT.—Silver-
plated Rims and Lids, with
Enamelled Lining, 15s 6d ;
with Ornamented Fluted
Rims, 20s; Plain, with Shield
only, 12s 6d.
il
Old Plate
Made
Equal
To New.
uminSfe^-
hi Minunuiw
3
ĥ
"Just What l Want!” SPOONS AND FORKS. A. BAUNDERB can fill that want with a First-Class, Rsllable Artlol*.
EXTRA STRONG. Guaranteed to give you every satisfaction.
A 1 QUALITY is the very Highest Standard. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 17s 6d half-
dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 7s 6d half-dozen.
B QUALITY is a Second Quality. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ;
DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 10s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 5s half-dozen.
SOLID WHITE NICKEL SILVER, Wear White throughout. A Splendid Knockabout Spoon to save the Better Article. DINNER
Spoons or Forks, 4s half-dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 3s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, Is 0d half-dozen.
Packed and Sent post free to all parts of the World. Kindly send your Orders to A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Size BUTTER.—AII Metal, Pure
Silver-plated, beautifully chased, 20s.
Extra ornamented, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Makes Two Dishes, Pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, 355. A Useful and Acceptable
Present. SHALL WE SEND YOU ONE ?
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUET (Breakfast). —Pure
Silver Electro-plated on White
Metal, 10s 6d ; with 4 Bottles,
15s 6d and 17s 6d.
Makes a very nice present.
Call and See our
Displayed Showrooms!
WHISKY FLASK.
Silver-plated Bot-
tom and Patent
Top, 10s 6d, 12s
6a, 16s, 20s, 265.
A Warming Friend.
JCSiim
It#
Si’’,?
tv'-^
\±
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure
Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Simi-
lar Patterns, 2s 6d and 3s.
Wish Bone Design, 4s 6d,
5s 6d, and 6s 6d. Solid
Silver, similar to Pattern,
7s 6d, 10s, and 12s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIVES.—Two Silver-plated, with Pearl
Handles, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d. Other styles, 7s 6d,
10s 6d, and 12s 6d, in cases. JAM SPOONS.—Same
price ; without case, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d and
6s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK.—Pure Silver Electro-plated
on Hard White Metal, 12s 6d. Other styles,
similar, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERB.
TEA POTS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated, on White
Metal, as pattern, 25s and 30s.
Different Pattern, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUETS.—First-class Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, as pattern, with Shield,
£2 10s ; extra quality, £3, £3 10s, and £4.
Other patterns without Shields, 355, £2.
A. BAUNDERB.
JAMS.—Floral China, Pretty Design, with pure
Silver Electro-plated Stand, 15s 6d ; double, 255.
Latest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
can be used as a Teapot.—Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2, £2
10s. Other Styles, £3 and £3 10s.
Handsome and Useful Article.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller & Silversmith
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
815 George Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station,
Sydney
Batimatea
Qiveu. OTiD PLATJEI iw anm EQUAL *370
nrxsw.
Bend Your Addre


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER .& CO.,
A ustralasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
ell
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK St SON,
4 Hunter-st,, Sydney
269 Collins-st., Melbourne;
'V''
C3rO TO HELL-
i* IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real pood stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
7i Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
hats. hats. hats.
Mountcastte & Quaids
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
D?MACKENZIE’S
pRSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion.
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society
S. Harvey, Ltd.
London Bdge S.E
h
ĥ
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY » CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made .Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARM
ħ
Massey-Harris Co. Ltd*
35 BROADWAY,
George-street West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The scheme to make Orange, and no other
place whatever, the Federal capital, is the result
of a deep-laid Sydney-merchants’ plan, and has
barrels of money ” behind it.
One of the mysteries of the Party cam-
paign m S. Aus. for a convention to frame a State
Constitution was the opposition of Labor-member
Hooper, the Moonta miners’ representative.
At Vic, general election 12 of the Melb.
men who stood for country constituencies were
beaten, and, not counting old members, only four
Melbourmtes were elected. It used to be the
other way about before payment of members.
A * iK Vo Y’. agricultural journalist,” of the Age
staff, lost his deposit.
The general election was on Thursday,
and on Friday (next night) George Turner spoke
in public, though not on politics. Triumph is
written on his brow, and gleams through his gig-
lamps. In the opinion of many a cruel injustice
was done to Turner in knocking him out for the
x ederal Premiership.
The success of Mi:. Winchcombe, the
Opposition candidate, for Ashfield, means that
Ashfield is still Freetrade. Also, that Ash-
held is very suburban, and is prepared to pull
Hie whole Federal edifice rather than be
baulked m its determination to be landed by rail-
way right at its office-door in the city.
A meeting of Freetraders was called in
to consider the advisability of issuing
.Dry Dog Reid’s recent ‘ 1 great ” Freetrade speech
in pamphlet form. About six attended, and one
reasonably-honest Freetrader drew attention to
the necessity for putting a footnote to the
pamphlet admitting that G. Reid’s statistics
couldn t be relied on.
Vhen Seddon discovered his famous
Federal mare’s-nest —that the Maoris would have
no vote under the Commonwealth—he was moved
almost to tears at the thought of the prospective'
injustice to that stalwart race. He is now, how-
ever, doing his best to consummate a Federation
with 100,000 niggers, none of whom have, or are
intended to ever have, a vote.
THE CHINESE SITUATION: ANOTHER
LITTLE JOKE.
“ Prince Chiny and Li Hung Chany, the Chinese
peace-negotiators, have communicated an Imperial
edict asking the ambassadors to indicate the Chinese
officials they consider deserving of punishment, and
to state what punishment .they consider ought to be
inflicted in each case.” — News Item.
Tasmania has decided to elect its Federal
Representatives by the Hare system of voting,
with the whole State as one constituency. It also
proposed to try its hand at absolutely-free educa-
tion, a thing that some of the larger and allegedly
more progressive provinces haven’t reached yet,
but its House of Ignorance, or Legislative Coun-
cil, rejected the idea with disgust.
Premier Lyne declines to grant railway
passes to those candidates for the Federal Parlia-
ment who are not members of the local Parliament.
His reason is that hundreds of candidates without
any chance of success would get passes. But if
a candidate for a Federal position were obliged to
present a requisition signed by “so many ” people
the fear of bogus claimants would be muqh allayed.
As it is, M’s.P. will have a decided pull in this
respect over non-member antagonists. Either all
candidates or none should have free travelling at
election-time.
Miners, whose occupation takes them to
many fields—for, after all, the vigorous life of the
average raining field is very short—are particu-
larly interested in making Old Age Pensions a
1 ederal rather than a State matter. Consider,
for instance, the constant passing to and fro be-
tween the Westralian fields, Broken Hill, Balla-
rat, Bendigo, Charters Towers, and Moonta !
The English press already begins to nag
about Australia’s contribution to the Navy—
which will perhaps be the rock to split on. Gov.-
General Hopetoun, it may be safely predicted,
will soon begin to whittle at Australia’s duty of
bleeding more cash for the Navy—which, by the
way, it w»as his first ambition to enter. Hence
his presidency of the Institute of Naval Archi-
tects.
Sanctimonious slush about the war, printed
by London Daily Mail :
Yet those who believe that the world’s history is God’s
judgment will recognise that the struggle had been for
years inevitable, and that in our final success is the trial
and confirmation of the justice of our cause.
Which is the sort of remark Annas might have
made to Caiaphas at lunch, after strolling back
from Calvary.
Snow’s Tramways Grab Bill passed S.A.
Leg. Council by 6 votes despite the continuous
fighting of Kingston and his Labor allies, the
lory majority having to remain until 3 a.m. to
get the measure through. Close fighting is
expected in the Assembly, but it is hard to fore-
cast results as most peculiar influences are at
work. The Holder Govt, and the Labor Party
will solidly oppose.
Labor-leader Trenwith, at Vic. general
election, addressed but three public meetings (one
open-air). He troubled neither committees, can-
vassers, nor cabs. Just stuck his name on the
ballot-paper and left the electors to take it or leave
it, as they thought fit. They took it, giving him
90 more votes than last time, his colleague about the
same, and their opponent 200 less. Probably £5
will cover all Trenwith’s expenses.
J- W. Billson, who, at Vic. general elec-
tion, headed the poll at Fitzroy, has Trenwith’s
old post—secretary of the Operative Bootmakers’
Union. Billson, like the other Labor Tribune, is
a most able speaker, close reasoner and erudite
political student. He is an advanced Socialist,
and is sure to make his mark in the House. At
last election he stood against Pink for Jolimont
and West Richmond, but the Tory vote beat him
badly.
Cabled that Chamberlain refuses to grant
Malta a more liberal constitution, on the ground
that the interests of the fortress are predominant.
Isn t that precisely what Kruger thought, in the
■interests of his Boers ? If Kruger had given the
franchise when and to the extent demanded his
little people would have been out-voted. Now
Joe, who has thrashed Kruger, does the very
thing at Malta which old Kruger tried to do in the
Transvaal.
Premier Philp announced
t’other day in Q’sland Parliament
that he had been requested by
that unspeakable gathering of
cheeky tricksters, the British New
Guinea Syndicate, to “ bring pres-
sure to bear" onN.S.W. to secure
the payment of that province’s
share of the syndicate’s expenses.
Said expenses were incurred, as
everybody knows, in trying to
surreptitiously engineer a stupen-
dous land-grab without the con-
sent of N.S.W. and Victoria, as
provided by law. Why don’t
Premiers Lyne and M‘Lean send
in their bill to the syndicate: “To
expenses incurred in blocking your
steal—so much ?” The syndicate’s
attitude is that#of the incendiary
plaintiff who sues the defendant
squatter for the value of matches
used in firing said defendant’s
grass. It is about time that Somers
Vine’s gang of hungry bounders
had it explicitly set forth that
this country doesn’t mean to pay
any burglar for wear and tear of
his jemmy in trying to steal its
pro perty, and that the syndicate
should think itself very fortunate
in not having the police and the dog set after it.
Sydney D.T. says that, taking any half-
dozen members of N.S.W. Assembly, four would
bet on the Federal Premiership going to Barton,
and two of them would bade Lyne. Further,
“ probably three of them would say if either Mr.
Barton or Sir William Lyne got it Mr. Reid
would be.in Opposition in the first Federal Par-
liament, probably be elected leader of the party,
and just as probably get sufficient following
around him to oust either of them.”
The downright Arthur Rae, one of the
first of Australian labor unionists to get into gaol
for organising a strike, and for a while'Labpr
M.P. for Murrumbidgee, brings back to the
memory of the Laborites the fact that one of the
planks of the first Labor platform was a declara-
tion of hostility to standing armies and militarism.
And now— ! Well, doesn’t Sleath, Labor M.P.,
share with Field-Marshal Neild the glory of being
the military expert of N.S.W. Assembly?
The Tory majority inS.A. Leg. Council so
mutilated the Holder Govt.’s Household Suffrage
Bill that Attorney-General Gordon abandoned it.
But the Fat Man majority passed the measure
just the same, and'Opposition-Leader Solomon is
now actually trying to get it through the Assembly.
As amended by the Fat gang, the Bill .seeks to
confer the franchise upon the wives of present
voters, and is a cold-blooded attempt to strengthen
the already strongly Tory Council constituency.
Sydney Telegraph’s M.L.
correspondent can’t understand
why Maoriland should give the
Spreckles Co. a contract for the
Frisco mail-service with ruuch-
improved steamers, seeing that
Spreckles owns the ’Frisco CaLL,
and “had through his paper re-
ferred to Lord Roberts in the most
offensive terms!” Also the new
boats are designed as war-time
cruisers, and the service ‘ ‘ cuts
into British trade”; “yet a
loyal Parliament calmly voted
the foreigner £15,000 a year” for
value received. Gives some idea
of the ass-lengths to which Jingo-
ism run mad has carried some of
the M.L. Britishers, when they
actually want the tax-payer to
drop a lucrative business bargain
because one of the parties owns
a newspaper which has spoken
disrespectfully of Lord Roberts.
Blow Lord Roberts! Blow
Spreckles’ newspaper ! And blow
the Equator !
It is reckoned that in the
seven years 1893-99, 3043 Chinese
left Victoria, while 4897 entered
it, making an increase of 1854.
The tonnage system, by which
vessels may land Chinamen free
in the proportion of one Chow
to so many tons capacity, is a
dead failure. N.S.W. charges
£lOO poll-tax, and in the last
seven years covered by Coghlan’s
statistics exported 3650 Chows,
and only received 390. In Mel-
bourne the Chow has got a practi-
cal monopoly of the furniture
trade, and £lOO poll-tax is badly
wanted there. N.S. W. goes in for Protection
in the Chow-importing industry, and Victoria
for comparative Freetrade—and Freetrade loses
as usual.
Ihe great victory of the Protectionist
party at the U.S. Presidential election is only
another evidence that the country which has given
Protection a fair trial is generally satisfied with
it. Several times this century the Freetraders
have carried a U.S. election, and gone in for re-
venue-tariffism, and the results have been so dis-
astrous that it always went back with all possible
speed to Protection. It isn’t for want of trying
Dry Dog Reid’s nostrum that the U.S. is Protec-
tionist.
Thomas, whip of N.S.W. Parliamentary
Labour-party, gets the Labor nomination for the
.Broken Hill seat in the House of Representatives
—the party s safest seat in N.S.W., and perhaps
m Australia. Ferguson, whom he defeated in the
unions ballot, goes to Warrego, with Cobar as a
stronghold. Thomas has been a consistent oppo-
nent of Australian participation in the Boer
slaughter; and that won him scores of miners’
votes which otherwise would have gone to his
sprrghtlier opponent.
G. H. Reid appears to contend that the
T' s , t \ Federal Premiership is the prescriptive
£r g a , e Premier f °r the time being of
Wales. In a word, Reid says that Lyne
should be sent for by Lord Hopetoun. But
isnt the Gov.-General’s business with the whole
Commonwealth in a lump, not with any of its
divisions ? Surely it is his business to search out
and rest his eye, not upon the mere official repre-
sentative of any one province, but upon the best
man, whoever that man may be.
S.A. Parliament prorogues on Nov. 30, a
month earlier than usual, if the Holder Ministry
is lucky enough to reach recess. Holder, who
was a splendid second-in-command when King-
ston was at the helm, is as big a failure as Premier
as he was eight years ago. Nearly all the pro-
gressive measures promoted by Kingston have
been wrecked, and it is an open secret that
Kingston is greatly disappointed with Holder’s
vacillation over Council reform. Like Cockburn
Holder was never intended for a leader.
From debate in M.L. Parliament on the
Fiji question :
Mr. John Hutcheson : How many niggers ?
• ? remier said he did not think the Fijians should be
insulted.
Mr. G. W. Russell : How many coolies ?
The Premier said the East Indians in Fiji were our fel-
low-subjects.
Seddon doesn’t want our “fellow-subjects” to be
msulted.” He is only asking them to join a
Federation” under which they would be for-
bidden to enter the other part of the Federal
territory.
Premier Lyne s latest Sydney resumption
scheme extends the resumed area to include a
large portion of the Rocks district. It should go
further and take in everything west of George-st.,
from the head of Darling Harbor to Circular
hJuay, which all badly wants reconstruction. And
even that should only be part of a scheme for the
resumption and.reconstruction of all Sydney. But
don’t let there be any more such fakes as including
the year s rents of the resumed area as revenue
and not including the year’s interest payable on
the purchase-money in the expenditure. One
such dodge is more than enough.
It is significant that the JVJelb. dailies which
waxed wildly enthusiastic over the defeat of Hig-
gins and M Cay as being due to those candidates’
very mild disapproval of the Boer war, quite over-
looked the election of Findlay for Melbi to fill the
place of that fine old crusted Tory, G. D. Carter.
Findlay made no bones whatever about his
opinions on the war. He openly denounced the
Chamberlain-Rhodes conspiracy, and within a
AWKWARD.
OLD BOUNDER: “I seem to have seen your-
smiling face before .”
MISS M.: “ Rather , Mr. Bounder. I was cook
at your place for a month, and you an’ the
missus was always rowing. Tell her I’ll give
her a call!”
week or two of polling-day made a vigorous speech
before the Peace and Humanity Society, in which he
announced himself as an unequivocal sympathiser
with the Boer republics, as far as the rights of
the quarrel were concerned.
Writes “ Gurh-Trees ” :
Editor Bulletin. — Re name of Federal city—l suggest
“ Union ”or “ Union City.” The idea of calling it after
any person in our political, or official (foreign, or other-
wise) world is utter rot. No individual in either sphere,
past or present, has so far shown the qualities, and a.
grasp of the firm, dignified, straight-out Australian
policy, that will early be demanded by the mass of the
people. In fact, no individual has done anything to war-
rant his or her name being tacked on to the capital as
a symbol for Australians to hang their hats on.
To which latter sentiment The Bulletin says
“Amen”—in view of the fact that the capital
isn’t likely to be named after Australia’s one
National hero, stout old miner Lalor who struck
for liberty at Eureka Stockade.
Sydney Daily Telegraph prepares to take
G. H. Reid back to its bosom—this, because it
sees in him the sole hope of the foreign-trade
party making anything of a fight over the fiscal
issue at the Federal elections. In a leading article,
last week, commenting on the success of the Reid
meetings in Melbourne and Adelaide (as reported
in its columns), the D.T. has the astounding nerve
to hail the man whom it has abused for months
past, to his local political ruin, as the rightful
leader of the Liberal Party ! If the Telegraph is-
going to keep up this sort of thing, it will be
pretty difficult even for that versatile journal to
help in keeping G. H. Reid in the back row of.
local politics.
A delightful development has arisen oir
the West Coast of Maoriland. Most of the mines
there employed non-union labor —they did it to
dodge the Arbitration Act. And now the dredg-
ing-boom has made labor scarce, and the non-
union laborers have struck on their individual
own. The employers are face-to-face with their
own dearly-beloved supply-and-demand law, and
they find a close acquaintance with it far from
pleasant. Had the men belonged to a union they
could have been haled before the Arbitration
Court and compelled to accept a fair wage; but
being blacklegs they cannot be so haled. The-
owners employed them for the special purpose of
keeping outside the Act, and these owners must ,
now either pay an exorbitant wage, or go without
the means of taking advantage of the big demand
for coal, for the strikers can get heaps of work on.
the dredges.
The Victorian'plural property vote is dead,
so far as the Assembly is concerned, but it should
be deader. The man who is on the ratepayer’s
roll in various electorates can only use his Parlia-
mentary vote in one, but he can choose which one..
There were about 27 electorates in which no con-
tests took place, and the Fat Men of these dis-
tricts used their votes in other electorates where
they had property, while the Lean Men of these
districts couldn’t transfer themselves in that way.
Again, at places like Brighton, where both candi-
dates belonged to the M‘Lean-Gillies party and it
didn’t matter much who got in, Fat Men could*
leave things to take care of themselves, and use
their votes to down a good democrat somewhere
else. Fully a fourth of the democratic votes were
lost through walks-over, but the Fat Man party
could use nearly all its voting power. The Vic-
torian plural property vote isn’t nearly dead
enough.


WEBBER'S
VITADATIO
DOES ITS WORK.
A Case of Hemorrhage of
the Lungs.
10 YEARS A SUFFERER.
NOW THOROUGHLY CURED.-READ.
Tennyson-street, Arch Hill,
Auckland, 23rd April, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir.—l am writing to let you know what Vitadatio
has done for me. Two years ago I had to give up my
work, as I was suffering so severely with coughing and
hemorrhage of the lungs. I could keep nothing on my
stomach, and therefore became very weak. I went under
treatment with both Melbourne and Auckland doctors.
I have also tried all kinds of medicines including Cod
Liver Oil, but I found no relief until I tried Vitadatio,
which has proved a thorough cure. I took six bottles
before feeling any effect. 1 was suffering very much all
the time, and quite lost faith in it. However, I was per-
suaded to persevere with it, and I am very thankful that
I did, for when I was taking the seventh bottle I felt the
reaction, and from that time I have gradually improved.
I have gained a stone in weight and am now quite strong
and able to work ; in fact, I have not felt as well for ten
years. I have taken twenty-six bottles in all. I will be
glad to testify to the merits of Vitadatio to anyone who
may call on me, or I will write to anyone on receipt of
stamped envelope. You may use this testimonial in any
way you please.—Yours truly,
(Signed) WILLIAM MANTLE SMITH.
Witness : E. A. Smith, Mother of the above.;
The Price of the Medicine is
Lar</e Size, 5s (id; Small Size, 3s 6d.
/ ndian Oil of Cream, 2s 6d.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W WEBBER, Eaunceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
£3”ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
AUSTRfICIfIn HIETROPOEITfII) [IFE JSSURIIDCE [O.,
LIMITED.
H B -\7" E 3XT XT 3E3 _A. C 3 C O XT 3XT *T
FOR THE YEArt ENDING AUGUST 31, 1900.
Dr.
Total amount of funds at beginning of year £20,374 14 6
Premiums (no re-assurance) .. £8,206 14 5
Interest and Rents .. .. 1,201 16 3
Transfer and Office Fees .. 9 0 0
Received on Shares .. .. 15 0 0
9,432 10 8
£29,807 5 2
Claims under policies (no re-assurance) ..
Government Tax
Surrenders .. .. ” ”
Dividends '' ' "'
Interest and penalty for reducing vendor’s
mortgage
EXPENSES OF MANAGEMENT—"
Procuration of New Business
and Commission .. ..£2,76115 11
Salaries, Medical, Audit, and
Directors’ Fees .. .. 1,428 13 10
Advertising 52 12 0
Printing and Stationery .. 60 13 9
Bents, Bates, and Taxes,
Head Offices and Branches 355 19 2
Postage, Stamps and Duty .. 38 4 2
Travelling Expenses .. .. m 14 1
General Expenses .. .. 91 15 5
Beturn of Premiums (cases
declined) ?1 13 4
Written off Office Furniture, Stationery,
and Investments
Total Funds at end of year
Cr.
£775 3 9
62 0 0
501 7 0
603 18 0
341 19 2
4,933 1 8
24 14 0
22,565 1 7
£29,807 5 2
33 A. L A W C E-S H E E T.
LIABILITIES.
Subscribed Capital .. .. 12,000 0 0
Less Uncalled 6,985 0 0
Assurance Fund
Sundry Creditors
Unclaimed Dividends ... .. M
£6,016 0 0
16,650 1 7
397 1 1
13 18 9
£22,976 1 5
ASSETS.
Freehold Property—Q. Deposit
Tla.nlr Pnilrlinnwi rr'i*.*-: r» j
t i. £18,600 0 0
Loans on Mortgage 3 ,036 19 6
Deposits with Royal Bank of Queensland .. 312 10 0
Outstanding Premiums .. .. 804 16 0
Accrued Interest .. 37 Jg
Furniture, Fittings, and Stationery.. .. 93 19 1
Agents’ Advances .. Nil.
£22,976 1 6
TERENCE J. HAROLD, Managing Director.
J. URE, M.D., Chairman.
I have examined the Books, Accounts, and Vouchers of the Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance Cnirmnnv
Limited, to 31st August 1900 and certify that the above Accounts are in accordance therewith. I htveaLo"n-
spected all securities held by the Company, and found them correct.
Brisbane, nth September, 1900. F ' Ll- evans - Auditor.
RECORD ORDER for TYPEWRITERS
121
. .YOSTS
This order has just been given by
Her Majesty’s Government for
Yost Typewriters, after the famous
machine had been thoroughly
tested alongside other makes.
fl f
This is the Clearest Proof of the Sterling Value of the Tost Typewriter.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
m Pitt Street, SYDNEY; 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane: Webster & Co. ; Adelaide: Reeves & Co.; Launceston : Hedley Button.
*ar Agents also for the NEW CENT UllY and DENS MO HE.
h
OYER
6,000
,
w
'
SHOPKEEPERS
IN THE
AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES
AND
200,000
ALL OVER THE WORLD
USB
lITIONICISH REGISTERS
HEAD
AUSTRALASIAN
OFFICE :
335 Pin STREET,
—SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM,
GENERAL MANAGER.
ĥ
WORTH NOTICING
THE
BEST
EVIDENCE
of the popularity of
ħ
is the fact that over
75,000
of these tyres have been sold in the
Australian colonies during the past
12 months—proof conclusive that they
excel all others for wear and re-
liability.
BEWARE OF
IMITATIONS.
iMiiMua
are only genuine when the coyer and
tube are embossed
with this
I^^
Trade Mark.
h
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
Those alleged millions of stolen wealth
which Kruger took to Europe are already shrink-
ing. -The Johannesburg mine-owners got an
order to seize the gold on arrival, on the ground
that it was commandeered from their mines, and
this naturally led to an official auditing of the
stupendous pile. So far all that, can be heard of
is £lOO,OOO.
Sydney-journalist F. J. Broomfield, who
recently left for Melbourne, had a genial send-off
t other night at Power’s Hotel, when a goodly
number of pen-jostlers and others assembled to
wish the well-known “Fred” farewell and
fortune. Artist Julian Ashton was in the chair
and the wheels went smoothly throughout.
“APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
.v. F °'J ontinuous use bv the Constipated, the Gouty and
™? e ,?!?• A PPb' to chemists for “ Regimen for the
Obese ” Card.
Published by the APOLLINARIS COMPANY Ltd., Lond.
Announced confidently that the York
visit to Australia was really settled early in
August, but kept back by Salisbury and Cham-
berlain til] the dissolution of Parliament, so that
a popular “Imperial” arrangement might be
announced just before the elections.
Victoria’s new Assembly contains 16
lawyers, 10 gentlemen, 9 merchants, 9 graziers,
8 farmers, 6 auctioneers, 5 agents, 5 journalists,
4 secretaries, 3 “drummers,” 2 each contractors,
speculators, surveyors, hatters, publicans, and
surgeons, and one artist, manager, turner, engi-
neer, painter, bootmaker, cordial-manufacturer,
and miner.
The “ tramp ” s.s. “ Yarrowdale ” loaded
live-stock at Natal in Aug. last for the Cape, and
a condensed account of her experiences, after des-
cribing deck damages, goes on—
This, however, was trifling compared with the destruc-
tion wrought amongst the stock on deck. With every
roll stall-fittings (hastily constructed) gave way, and ter-
rified animals were speared on broken spars, dying in
gory heaps on deck. Attempts on the part of the crew
and cattlemen to repair fittings were of course useless
upon a slippery iron deck alternately inclined at an angle
from 15 to 45deg., and strewn with maimed, bleeding,
dying and dead cattle, presenting a spectacle sickening
to the heart.
The loss en route amounted to 493 sheep, and 60
bullocks. Such horrors are of frequent occurrence,
but the “ tramp ” shipmaster is not too anxious to
dilate on them for fear of damage to his “hooker’s”
name and possible loss of his job. By the way,
a steamer which lately loaded at Sydney a large
number of horses for the German forces in China
lost quite half her live cargo—some hundreds— -en
route.


“ Nil ” submits an idea :
We have laws of sorts to “ protect the public” against
themselves in re their own ignorance—Medical Acts,
Marine Acts, Dental Acts, laws relating to the practice of
the law—all of which provide that the paid person shall
have given some proof of his fitness for his work and
passed some approved examination. The men who make
these laws and govern their betters give no such proofs
and pass no such examinations. A good institution at
the first Federal election would be that of a primary
examination to be passed by every intending candidate.
It need not be stiff. The University preliminary would
stick half the candidates. A special selection of subjects
might include, say, geography, spelling, history of the
19th century in precis, as well as a very little political and
social economy and a number of questions bearing on
Australian finance.
A hotel recently burnt at Masterton
(M.L.) was well supplied with fire-grenades—those
bluish-green bottle arrangements that you smash
on the scene of the conflagration, whereupon it is
supposed to go out immediately. And the spec-
tacle of the night was an almost-naked bagman
heroically rescuing these grenades and carrying
them, whole and uninjured, to a safe place across
the street. The other articles saved were a soaked
pillow, a serviette, and a torn photo, of Maggie
Moore, and three men risked their lives to get
these articles out.
Yosper, the Long-Haired Man of W.A.,
moved recently in the Westralian Parliament that,
as soon as the Commonwealth is established, an
Imperial Conference should be held to provide for
the “ closer union of the empire,” and for letting
in free the products of our cheap and scantily-
clothed brown fellow-subject. In reply, Forrest
tried to explain that the empire would probably
.take no notice even if a small, subordinate Legis-
lature instructed it to up-end all its political
arrangements immediately; and Vosper sat down
dejectedly on his hair, a scorned man.
N.S.W. Minister Perry’s proposed Bill to
provide for the proper and sufficient ;• cconimoda-
tion of shearers will, if spoken to with spirit by
ex-shearers in the Assembly, provide a page of
literature quitg as squalid as that filled with .the
'Story of Miffing Harbour slums. The bu«n hath
its slums in real earnest. But how the Council
will yell when the Bill is dropped on its table •
Eradicates Scurf.
Promotes Growth.
S3*
EOfiiTHE HAift
Prevents Hair Falling.
Contains no Dye,
Hearne’s Bronchitis G
THE! FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete ui e. is mo. , >
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to dove °P- <i^ 1K ' n>l - 1 !i ,n . 7
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a c ose is genera ysu cien
and a Complete Cure is certain. .
BEWARE OIF* COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Brancli Depot r
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d ; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Fast to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute
THIS is the only Medi-
cal Institute in Aus-
tralia with a bona
fide capital that stands
behind their guarantee and
is evidence of a faithful
performance of all their
contracts.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
jV© one should hesi-
tute to consult us f as
consultations either
by letter or in person
are given FREE OF
CHARGE*
400-PACE medical work post
FREE OH APPLICATION.
it
HEALTH m
cl
•; : ■-
”
strength electro:
W®CAifl
jyiE-.P
■«
;'J ' '
" ■ ■.:
■
T\ I i *
]■ t ■
/ ’ ;■ T
--- jJLii ’B | ,
SPECIALITIES :
II eart,
Kidney,
Liver Affections.
JEtheuma tisin,
Sciatica,
Epilepsy,
Gout.
Gravel, —-
Bladder, and
Spinal Aff'ectiotis.
Blood JZ Skin Diseases
liupture and Piles
Cured without
Operation.
Nerve and Brain
Com plications.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government Medical Boards of New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia, Great Britain and America Open to inspection.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of Australia—CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STS., SYDNEY.
For privacy Patients may address “F. & W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth St., Sydney .
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD F ° R
Infants
w
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation, of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
KVALIDS


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
ĥ
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALFALINE
Nerve Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, .Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAmEE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope 1
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover. j
i !
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
IMPORTRN
T.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALF ALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH, ” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSHIUSSeiIj
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to H&HS RaSSIIIUSSeiI.
APVKC FREE.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure aud
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 69.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 69.
Alfaline Ointment—Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office 547 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY
- j
Bit ]SBAiV E : 309 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
MELBO U ItN E : 150 Bourke-street (opp. Eastern Markets).
ADELAIDE : 154 Handle-street (near York Hotel).
’n7z.\' IVELLfNGTOX : 91 Lambton Quay-
PERTH : Hay-street (opposite Wiedenbach’s).
KALGOORLIE : Hannan-street (newt Lindell’s).
"BOULDER CITY : Piesse-street.
FREMANTLE \ Henry-street.
Smiler Hales’s description of the beaute-
ous Boer maiden in a recent Bulletin appears in
the middle of the yarn entitled “ A Khaki Court-
ship,” printed in last issue for Australia of Snap
Shots. D.d “Smiler” write “A Khaki Court-
ship ” —or how do tilings stand ?
Victoria has now 29,255 employes (includ-
ing 95 Y 2 females) in 29 trades.working under the
minimum-wage and limited-hours’ provisions of
the Factories Act. Nothing has burst yet. So
far, Frcetrade N.S.W. shows very little sign of
following th:s good example. Whether anything
will happen when border-tariffs are abolished and
Victoria is exposed to the competition of the
sweating employers.of other provinces only time
can show.
The late Charles de Boos (journalist,
author, and police-magistrate),-who died the other
day aged over 80 years, did not enter N.S.W.
civil service till he was 55 years of age.
it with a pension at a little over 70. The lair-
faxes were his ideal of newspaper proprietors, and
their style of journalism the most perfect in his
eyes. But old John Fairfax gave De Boos a
pretty free pen—so free that a Premier once
.threatened to wreck the office if the scurrilous
scribe wasn’t ejected. De Boos was always indul-
gent to young writers and warmly appreciative of
the class of writing that lay along his own track.
An interesting case recently before
N.S.W. Full Court was that in which a Sydney
suburban storekeeper appealed against a decision
ordering him to pay the costs of the Potter Drug
Corporation over the obtaining of an injunction
against him for selling a soap called “ Cutiscure. '
The contention on applicant’s behalf was that it
was not customary to extract costs from an “ in-
nocent infringer ” upon a trade-mark; but the
Court dismissed the appeal on the common-sense
ground that there wasn’t any discoverable “inno-
cence” in selling an article differing so slightly in
name from Cuticura Soap as to be obviously in-
tended to “travel” on the latter’s well-estab-
lished reputation.
HAVE YOU
LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
inay be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
tend at once for
AI/ KRT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
" Inch arc a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Siores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/lid. per b .x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England-
Agents : ELLIOTT BliOS., Sydney Purchasers should
look mi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green lal el on box. (Regd. copyright).
Collis P. Huntington, the lately-demised.
American multi-millionaire, controlled an enor-
mous mileage of railway. When his funeral pro-
cession started at a fixed hour, every train on the
lines he controlled was stopped for 3min. He
once had 1000 miles cleared right through, so that
his pleasure train could run that distance without
sippp..ge.
n
ħ
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 8/6 e& c&%,
PLAITS and TAILS,
?oin. lone:, 6/fl. nil real h stf-%
CUTTINGS <ft
worked up, 2/6 per 02.
VVe are the eheapestin
t/uhft for all Uair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigzglf,
110 William Street.
. aorner of Palintr-etreet,
SYDNEY.
Chl’lo Tittrii will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price EistL
attention 'fclveu to Country Ort«:i
h
Medical.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT &. COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
Dr. BoxweP’s
PILLS.
-vr ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling- Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr.
Boxwell having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia' or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne:
ĥ
Is a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly.and perman-
er restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, stren th uid vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rNLORODYNE
N- — _ —
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for GOUGHS, GOLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &C.| bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. 1 never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days' Trial
ħ
We grant every purchaser
of our
JiLISCTUIC
I! ELI’S and
A PPLIA yens
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TI!.IC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Bells give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing’, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
h
r Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
/ Proprietor .'—STEPHEN GREEN,
s'2lo Lambeth Rd., London, K.E.
s' Those suffering- from Weak Eyes or
s' Eyelids, or other Eye .Disorders,
' should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering' EUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
rPHESE Famous Pills are now universally used throtigh-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent posted, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says: “Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
Over
IQO
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
i
-
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OF Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
U3l! Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
lor all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. iAd. and 2s. od. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers, BEACH & BARNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPORT, England.
BEAT
:
The New Patent
.SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Show long standing. Are the same
' to the ears, as glasses are to the
eyes. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
Address
WHITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
-L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.


THE POPULAR DEMAND. -———--a®
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLES
XT by British Mechanics in one of the largest and best-equipped factories in the world.
Massey-Harris Bicycles Can Be Bought By Gradual Payments,
Sydney Depot— 3Bs George-street.
Branches in every colony.
Red to the front.
OUR 6LORIOUS RED
Russian soldiers find they can’t tear down the grand old British flag with impunity
The Union Jack floats more proudly than ever in every continent on earth. The
BED BIRD Bicycle stands by that flag everywhere, and keeps the glorious
BRANCHES
IN ALL COLONIES.
THE GOOLD BICYCLE CO.,
Headquarters for Australasia — G4t King Street, SYDNEY.
The
Original
JOHN JAMESON WHISK?
Agents:
J. Barre Johnston & Co.,
Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
8,3 a matter ot course, protested that
Swe f P u a j a rather bad win for the J *m Scobie’s
part >' w ° n £35,000, said the aggrieved bookies,
w! h nf II K lHI ? BOLUms vi K oroU3| y disbelieves. No
horse can be backed by the stable to win so much money
nowadays—backed at the eleventh hour, too—without
minging- h ls starting price down to something much
shorter than 20 to 1. The main hope of Scobie and the
crowd—S Rupert Clarke, Robert Orr and Frank Oum-
mmg -was La Carabine. They thought the mare was a
r^ th ‘n n ?J 0r a Pi*?? than ei . ther Malster, Clean Sweep
.r B . ride > and they advised their punting friends
accordingly. In addition to Scobie’s lucky lot, all of whom
were among the leading eight at the end of the first mile,
h p d Walt ' a '®. lt and Kaaba going from other
Pr ® s . en . t scr ‘ be knows that several Ballarat
’ f elbln J fo I med as to the hopes of the local
trainers, backed five out of the six aforesaid, and let
Clean Sweep run loose. Mr. Orr, the owner of Malster,
stated after the race that Clean Sweep had not been tried
with his horse. To judge the pair of 3-year-olds on ap-
pearances anyone would have wagered 3 to 1 that the
Oerby winner was good enough to give 111 b. to Clean
Sweep , for the son of Zalinski, though very symmetrical,
doesn’t look a high-class animal. ’
* * * *
Ciean Sweep is the eleventh 3-yr.-old to win
Melb. Cup. Five-year-olds have won 12 times, four-year-
olds eight, six-year-olds five, and aged nags four.
* * * *
This year’s Cup makes the 23rd secured by the
promoting State. N.S. W. has appropriated 15, and S. A. 2.
* * * *
Strange fancies influence men who “ follow the
races.” Man at Richmond (Vic.) was behind with his
T e !!h.- A ?r\ t b “ lhed h >m;- served him with notice, and
told him that if he didn’t pay up, or clear out, a “ clean
sweep would be made of his furniture. Which struck
the Sport straight on the eye of prescience. “Clean
Sweep ! he muttered—and then and there put every
shekel he could raise on the gee-gee that won the Cup.
When he paid the rent he called the agent a “ bloomin'
prophet, and offered the bewildered man a commission
on his tip ! This is probably a lie, but what matter.
" * * *
Present racing season will go on record
as the period of “ Scobie’s scoop.” That trainer has
topped everything ever previously done by one stable.
Miltiades won S.A.J.C. and Malster A.J.C. and V.R C
Derbies. Then there were Paul Pry’s three and Ran-
furly s two races at Randwick. Subsequently came
Clean Sweep s Coongy Handicap, Moonee Valiev and Mel-
bourne Cups—with Malster second in latter event. Final
day (Saturday) of meeting saw Scobie well to the fore
again, winning three most important events—Spring
Stakes (Clean Sweep), C. B. Fisher Plate (Malster). and
V.R.C. Handicap (La Carabine). And Monday last Paul
Pry added Wilhamstown Cup.
The danger of laying long odds on anything.
On Saturday three (Clean Sweep, The Idler, and Fides)
started for V.R.C. Spring Stakes. Punters laid 8 to 1
on nrst-named, and Mo. offered 10 to 1 against Idler. The
Cup winner was first into the straight, but, 300yds. from
home, The Idler was at him, and further on had his head
m front. Clean Sweep looked unmistakably beaten, but
t other failed to sustain the effort, and Clean Sweep
coming again won by 1* lengths. Had The Idler’s run
been made a little later that 8 to 1 pot would certainly
have boiled over.
* * * •
~ “ Old Timer ” : Apropos Scobie’s stable winning
three Derbies in one season. Previous occasion of a.
similar feat was 32 years ago, when John Tait’s Fireworks
gathered-in A.J.C. and V.R.O. blue ribands and a
special run at Flemington (Jan. 1, ’6B) in honor of the
Duke of Edinburgh s visit. It is worth mentioning, too,
that Fireworks was out of Gasworks, an ancestress of
last Melb. Cup winner—Clean Sweep.
Why should there be such a run on Melb
Stakes winner for the Cup? In the history of the race
the only two nags to win both were Malua and Carbine,
but we don’t often get Maluas and Carbines. Dunlop ran
second to Silvermine in Melb. Stakes; t’other way about
was the result of the Cup. Australian Peer accounted
for Mentor in the Stakes, but latter won the Cup while
former couldn’t get nearer than fourth. Sheet Anchor
was second to Trenton in the Stakes, and subsequently
won the Cup, with Trenton third. Ruenalf gave Patron
31bs. in the Stakes and beat him. In subsequent Melb.
Cup Ruenalf met Patron at an advantage of 271bs.
Patron won, but Ruenalf finished nowhere. There are
other instances, but these will suffice.
* * « *
What s the matter with Merrivvee, the winner
of last year’s Derby and Cup ? Right up to last week
owner Herbert Power told his friends to put their faith in
his black deceiver for the big handicap. He was a better-
horse (on the track) than the Merriwee of 12 months ago,,
and his recent disheartening runs in w.f.a. had been quite
satisfactory to the stable, it was said. But when the time-
came for the much beaten animal to put his best leg for-
ward, he hadn’t a best leg. Jlow it is pleaded that the
brute will not take kindly to Guinane, an excuse which
doesn t convince a lot of people who dropped their Merri-
wee money at Randwick last April. The horse was then:
steered by his old jockey, Turner.
* * * »
It would be interesting, to know why Auld Lang-
Syne’s jockey was changed last week. W. Delaney rode:
the mare in the two races—Coburg Stakes (one mile) and
Railway Handicap (six furlongs)—in which she started
first favorite, and was badly beaten. Then, with Osborne:
on her back, Auld Lang Syne won two handicaps easily
over the li-mile course, starting at 15’s and B’s to 1.
Delaney is fully entitled to a stewards’ inquiry into this:
matter of the difference in the jockeys, the distances, and
the results.
* » * *
Previous to Auld Lang Syne’s victory on Oaks.
Day it was said that the mare was getting her last chance:
also the Ana us next day “ understood ” that she had
retired from the Turf. But on the Saturday they gave-
A.L.S. one more last chance, and she won the final handi-
cap as easily as April Fool got away with the same race
last year.
■ * * *
Ditto’s pitiable performance in the Steeplechase
last Saturday suggested that the poor laggard, lifting
himself wearily over the jumps, was likely to fall asleep,
on the journey. Subsequently discovered that Ditto had
been in a fair way to fall asleep for evermore. His throat-
strap was so tight that it well-nigh throttled him. How-
ever, there was nothing wrong with the throat-straps of
one or two other jumping horses that scored remarkable,
failures during the meeting The name of one nag in
particular was associated with stories that ought to have
been smelt even in the Stewards’ Stand.
* « * *
Lancaster’s inability to stay the Flemington
two miles was no surprise to many people who had seen
his stable-companion, Sagacity, prove himself a flat-
catcher in Caulfield Cup. For many weeks the Sagacity-
Lancaster “ double ” was steadily pushed down Aus-
tralia’s sporting throat by horse-reporters, especially the
reporters of newspapers which live, to a great extent
upon bookmakers’ advts. The two boosted nags were
spoken of as sensational gallopers, and so forth. Their
portraits appeared again and again, sometimes in con-
junction with a beauteous photo, of Ike Foulsham, their
trainer. If Sagacity and Lancaster had been a pair of
lady principals in a new opera co. they couldn’t have re-
ceived more flattering advance notices. The Sagacity
bubble burst unexpectedly when Fleet Admiral beat the-
over-rated “crack” a fortnight before Caulfield. The
Lancaster bubble held good until the horse arrived at the
point where stamina is demanded in a Melb. Cup race.
And then it was seen that all the “brilliant” track per-
formances of Lancaster, with a light-weight on his back
had been utterly worthless as evidence of the speedy
animal’s capacity to win the race the public were backing
him for. °
» * * *
Four thousand Lancaster sweep-money from
Newcastle saw the light at “ fives ” in Sydney Tatt.’s on
Cup day. The commissioner was absolutely carried off his
feet by Mo, anxious to get as much out of trouble as pos-
sible, and the whole amount went in a few seconds
Writer will never forget the sight. They were like a pack
of famished wolves after a good fat carcase.
• » • *
In the Veteran Stakes, War G-od gave 131 b. to
Alix, a couple'of stone each to Grizzle and Borromeo, and
a handsome beating to the three of them.
* * * *
Haulette’s time for the Oaks, 2min. 40Jsec., beat
the record by Jsec. It was a faster race than 36 of the
Derbies that have been run at Flemington.
* * » .
The Flemington crowd on Oaks Day had a
horrible experience when the favorite—Miller’s Welfare—
came to grief in the Hurdles. When the poor brute strug-
gled to its feet again, right opposite the Grand Stand, it
was seen to be left with only three legs and a swinger. The
near foreleg, snapped above the knee, hung loosely by a
a piece of skin, the broken bone, white and clean, looking
like a peeled sapling. Luckily the gruesome accident
happened close to the weighing stand. Welfare was
promptly shot by a veterinary surgeon.
* * * ■»
La Carabine’s win of V.R.C. Handicap, with
Oup weight up, endorsed the contention of capable
judges that but for being made so much use of in the big
event she would have at least got a place.
R. Lewis heads the list of winning jockeys at
Y.R.O. meeting : Malster (3 races) and Union Jack and
Clean Sweep—one each. W. Burn (Cadenas, Fides and
Lancaster) follows. E. deal, G. Osborne, J. Gough and
S. Bennett have two opposite their names.
* * * *
Bill of Portland and Carbine topped the list of
winning sires at V.R.C. meeting. Former per medium
of Malster, who won three races ; latter through War God
(2) and La Carabine (I). Clean Sweep, Auld Lang Syne,
and Cadenas scored two each for Zalinski, Lochiel and
Padlock. Gossoon, Wallace and Wellington also each had
two firsts.
* * » *
Looks as if Bill of Portland has sired one colt —
in Malster—that may fight when cornered, albeit Malster’s
dam (Barley) threw a couple of shifty ones in O’Trigger
(to Trenton) and Carbinier (to Carbine).
Frank Madden, as seen through Argus spec-
tacles—“ A politician of tested integrity, whose main
fault is ardour.” Madden’s remarkable ardour against
the Tote helped to put his seat in jeopardy this trip.
If the Vic. elections had happened the week after, in-
stead of the week before the Cup, the despondent punters
of Melb.’s eastern suburbs would probably have slung
Mr. Frank Madden out upon his ear.
* * * *
Frank Madden, it is said, will be “ pulled ” for
slander by his late opponent at Melb. Eastern Suburbs
election. There’s one thing to be said in favor of the
burly, loose-tongued Tory this time. When he made his
allegations (whatever they were) against candidate Kemp
he knew that he was running the risk of a libel-action.
And the fat man who deliberately offers a thin man a
chance to go for heavy damages is a good sport, anyhow.
The Bulletin lives in hopes of converting Frank Madden
into a tote supporter, like his brother, John, the Waxel-
lency.
* * * *
Ticket number 19,415 in Tatt.’s £1 Melb. Cup
sweep drew a £3O, a £lO and a £5 prize. Phenomenal
luck, but, after all, more fluff than feathers. One £5O
prize would have been better.
* * « •
The winner of a trotting race at Christchurch
(M.L.) last week paid a totalisator dividend of £206.
* « » *
Pug. “Billy” M‘Kell got a bad shock in Melb.
t’other night. He was facing “ Dido” Wilson, and knock-
ing chips off him—hitting anywhere, anyhow, and any-
time. Offers of 4to 1 on M’Keil were plentiful at close
•of second round, it looked such a good thing. Wilson sat
•down dazed and broken up. Next term M'Kell was brim-
ful of confidence and equally careless. Suddenly a pro-
miscuous swing caught him on the “ point,” and down he
went for fully 2mins.
* • • *
Erstwhile Captain’s Flat (N.S.W.) miner Dan
O’Connell and “ Snowy ” Sturgeon (who made the best
showing of any against Cribb) have signed to box at
Gaiety A.C. (Sydney'), Dec. 3. This’ll be all stoush from
•end to end, as each is chockful of grit, and can stand a
bigger helping of hard thumps than most at the game.
'They’ll scale within a lb. or two of each other, though
•conditions provide for catch-weights.
* * * •
Irishman Tim Nolan and inky giant Peter Felix
(ex-champion of Australia) are matched to meet in Sydney-
on Boxing Night. The black’s only chance ’ll be to keep
as far away from Tim as possible, and he’ll probably- do
that., On his showing with champion Doherty 7 , Felix
hasn’t much relish for a punch ; he’s sure to get a few rib
shakers if Nolan gets close enough. Otherwise, ’twill be
a repetition of the Clioynski-Fogarty affair in Sydney
nine years ago, when short-reached jaw-breaker Fogarty,
after chasing the Pole all over the ring for several rounds
and hitting at vacancy every time, dropped his hands
and the fight, explaining, “ It ain’t no use, gen’l’men, I
•can’t get near him—he’ll keep me at this game all night.”
Nolan is about the same build as Fogarty, though taller,
and Felix is inches longer than Choynski.
For weeks past Sydney fight-promoters have
•been dishing-up matches of the cheap and nasty sort,
merely because the margin of profit is wide. Another
•old-timer in Dos. Patterson was dug out at Golden Gate
A.C. (Sydney), Saturday, and pitted against a rank duffer
who had no credentials bar youth, vigour, and bull-
headed aggressiveness. The “ has-been ” shaped well as
long as he lasted, which .was exactly 3min.—one round.
After that he had “no earthly 7,” and simply stood up to
get punched silly. Every properly-balanced man looking
on went out disgusted. The thing ended in the third
round through the intervention of the pumped-out pug.’s
brother. Previous Wednesday something similar hap-
pened, when one Phillips, hot fit to fight 2min., was
thumped all round the ring for 12, and then skied the
rag, badly broken up. Another similar affair was
announced for Wednesday night this week. Marvel is
that there have been no deaths or other serious conse-
quences such as are often heard of when ill-conditioned
men fight, but they’ll soon come as things are. Mean-
while, those who live by the game are too thick-headed
to see that their greed and lack of judgment are surely
knocking every atom of desire for scientific boxing out of
the piper-paying public.
* • * »
The boxing boom at Broken Hill dies hard—
■though a recent exhibition or two has sent it down-hilß
a match between Archer and Queenslander
led Murphy there was the usual crop of challenges •
whereupon one of the challenged-" Bli-me, here are
champions figlitin’ for a ten-pun house—what hope have
we . The challenger looked out upon an empty theatre,
and was eloquently silent. But that’s just what it has.
come to.
Vic. Athletic premierships were decided on
Monday upon Melb. Cricket Ground. Top-notchers Moir
and Shea made things hot for each other in the 100yds.
and 220yds. Judge couldn’t separate them in former,
and latter went to Shea by 4in. in *>2 3-5. This is 2-ssec.
outside previons best (Stan. Rowley’s), put up at Brisbane
last year, but lowered the then existing Vic. record (W.
T. Macpherson’s), which stood six years, by l-10sec. S.
Duncan (holder) got away with the mile easily. Old-
timer Barrett (who was on the retired list) secured the
3-mile walk handily, well inside standard time. M'Lean
closed on hurdles (120yds.) mainly through Gardner fall-
ing and, at the same time, interfering with Macpherson.
Gardner won his heat in 16 2-s—lsec. better than the Vic.
record. Weight-putting(l6lb.) went to Maher (35ft. 7Jin.),
who also carried off 161 b. hammer honors, 91ft 1 Jin. Had
Sydney old-man thrower Fitzpatrick competed, as
originally intended, report says 120 ft. would barely have
beaten him. Purbrick appropriated the mile walk in 7.11;
O Hanlon the half-mile, run in 2.5 1-5 ; Duncan the mile
in 4.40 3-5 ; Shea the quarter in 53J ; and M’Duigan the
high jump (sft. s Jin.).
*** * •
“Spike” : The Australasian’s athletic writer,
commenting upon Brisbane heel-and-toe man Baxter’s
6.50 for a mile at N. Sydney recently, says : “ He’ll have
to improve on this if he wishes to have any chance with
Victorian walkers.” As the world hasn’t heard of or seen
anything better in Victoria, the Australasian man must
have a “ dark ’un ” stowed away. All the same, writer
wouldn’t mind wagering that something over 7min. would
find the very best Victorian out of the hunt.
* * * *
The latest victim to football was a young fellow
who, at an Auckland, M.L., match, collided so violently
with another player that he died 20 minutes later.
* * » *
Final match between first Eleven of N.S.W.
and 15 colts (only 11 allowed to field) finished on Monday,
and was interesting. Eleven looked like collapsing badly
on opening day (Saturday) when Donnan, Trumper, Ire-
dale, and Hopkins (the three latter clean bowled) were
out for 44. Noble and Duff then got together and
notched 97 for the sixth wicket. Noble ultimately made
149. Eleven scored 320 and colts 223 first innings. On
Monday the Eleven battled again and ran up 112 for 4
wickets, thus finishing with an advantage of 97 on first
innings. Colts fielded and bowled well, but showed
evidence of long tail in batting.
* * * »
The absurdity of a bowler having his elbow
stiffened by splints was witnessed in colts v. first eleven
(N.S.W.) match on Monday. Marsh (colts) was no-balled
half-a-dozen times on Saturday, and, insisting that the
delivery was correct, came out with his arm bandaged like
a hospital-patient second day, rendering bending or
jerking of the elbow (considered a throw) impossible.
Umpire Curran (looking at the proceeding as a reflection
upon him) withdrew, giving place to Sammy Jones.
Writer contends that Marsh’s action should never have
been tolerated, as the fact of bowling fair with splints on
didn’t prove that those half-dozen “ no-balls ” on Satur-
day were not such. The circumstance of trundling for
hours on the first day without being “ called ” more than
six times demonstrated all that the wearing of splints
could possibly show, viz., that Marsh was able to bowl
properly.
• • * »
Feature of Vic.-S. A. inter-State cricket-match
up to time of writing was S.A. new-comer Matthews’con-
tribution of 79 at a time when runs were badly needed.
Matthews never figured in inter-State cricket before, and
was only chosen this time for bowling. Bowler Jones’
inclusion among the team knocks out all rumors about
his going to Tas. or elsewhere.
* * * *
S. A. cricket team against Victoria was minus
Darling, Lyons, and the brothers Jarvis, four men who
have been playing for the Wheat State off and on for the
last five years or more. M’Kenzie, who has occasionally
'V'd strong claims for a trip to England, displaced “ Affie ”
Jarvis behind the sticks, and F. Jarvis Was discarded for
inconsistency closely approaching absolute failure. S.A.
has for years relied on her cracks, and, now that they are
all disappearing almost at the same time, juniors are
getting chances formerly denied.
* * m v
“Jack” Lyons retires from big cricket at the
,°? 37 - He neve r looked like a player who would last;
big hitters rarely do. Somehow Grace has more than seen
all his companions out; he made 130 odd in a big match
at the end of last season, and will probably do fairly well
again next summer, although in his 53rd year. Writer
saw G. Giffen at the nets recently, and found that he was
batting as well as ever, more vigorously if anything. And
Giffen was 41 last March.
* * * *
Fred Hack, the tall S. A. player who headed the
Australian batting averages last year, will probably settle
in Melbourne after Xmas. He is a batsman with a future,
according to good judges. He practically won the match
m Sydney for S.A. last Jan. with a fine score of 158 not
out, and made 115 against Trumble and co. in Adelaide
Hack is a carriage-builder by trade.
* * * m
Neither the League of Vie. Wheelmen nor the
Melb. Bicycle Club is likely to gain in respect by its
backdown in accepting a compromise. When the M.B O.
grandiloquently announced its intention of taking over
the management of the sport the League retaliated by
publishing threatening advts., and for a few days
each side threw out deadly challenges to the
other after the manner of a couple of bar-brawlers.
The compromise now arranged means that the M.8.C.,
which announced that the L.V.W. was no longer fit to
govern the sport, has agreed to that body doing so;
while the L.V.W., which denounced the M. 8.0. as an
impudent, money-grubbing concern, connection with
which would disqualify any racing cyclist, solemnly
scheme of government suggested by the
M. aforesaid. Altogether an exhibition of abject
cowardice.
* » * *
Rubber of inter-state bowling matches, ’tween
N. and Vic., opened well (Monday) for former, who
won bv 3 points, mainly through Locke’s quartette’s 29
to Garnham’s 13. Locke is actually a Victorian now and
domiciled there, though he was a member of Waverley
(Sydney) 8.C., and resident in Sydney a few weeks’ since.
* * * *
Bowling tourney for individual supremacy (pro-
moted by M. 0.0.) began Monday, and ended Saturday,
lr S a ™ eek> Entries totalled 128, and came from M L.,
.N.S.W., Tas., S.A., and Vic. Last four left in were all
Victorians. Sheedy (Richmond Union B.O.) won, with
Hansen second, Garnham third, and Pullar fourth. Last
named is Vic. champion. Though the competition was
open to all-comers and the inducement good, several top-
"otchers refrained from participating, particularly both
JN.B. W. individual champion ” and “ champion of cham-
pions.”
* * * *
Late ’Ome files convey that 220yds. champion-
smp of England (Sept. 17), wherein swimmers Lane
(Australia) and Derbyshire (Eng.) dead-heated in the new
world’s record of 2.34 4-5, was the first instance of a dead-
heat for a swimming championship. Not only was Fred
Lane’s previous world’s “ best ” (2.38 1-5) broken, but the
prof, speediest (2.37), put up six years ago by present
world’s premier, “ Joey ” Nuttall, went out. This writer
fears the performance will not be allowed by English
swimming authorities as most reports agree that the
pistol was anticipated by both men ; and the phenomenal
time accomplished bears this out.
* * * *
Latest mail brings news of Australian sprint
swimmer Jack Hellings’ most recent doings “down
under.” Early last month he gathered in Southern
Counties’ supremacy over 100yds. for third year in suc-
cession. First win was accomplished in 1.5 l-sth easily,
second in 1.6, and last in 1.6 l-sth. How’s this for con-
sistency ? A day or two later he once more got away
with 150yds. premiership of London handily by half-a-
dozen yards in 1.46.
• • * •
First championship of Sydney sailing season
(Flying Squadron 18-footers) was decided on Saturday,
and resulted :—Australian, sh. 26m. 49sec.; Donnelly, sh.
27m. 2Ssec. ; and Ira, sh. 30m. 53sec. Stella 11. was dis-
qualified, Vanduara “ carried away,” and Newcastle crack
Federal turned turtle when lying third.
* » • •
Canadian Gaudaur talks of handing over the
sculling premiership to young Ten Eyck, but it isn’t
likely the world ’ll stand that sort of thing. Gaudaur
finds himself badly cornered by Hunter River Towns’
straight challenge, and wants to crawl out. He’ll have
to face the music or lose by default. He has hung on to
the title without making one match since beating Stan-
bury.
* * * •
J. J. Miller, of the Melbourne “ show-print-
ing” firm, reminiscences interestingly of the time, 20
years ago, when he used to run 15 sweeps, £lOOO each, on
the Melbourne Cup. The kindly little man’s connection
with the horse-business is confined nowadays to the firm’s
publication of an Australian Racing Chronicle, edited
by his son, Jimmy Miller, who has lately been on tour
with the War Biograph.
• » * *
One result of Federation may be the legislative
taboo of Tattersall’s sweep. In that case it will doubt-
less remove to New Caledonia. The French would wel-
come such a hunk of postal revenue.
About time racing authorities compelled owners
to find more or less original names for their horses, also
to spell them properly when registering. Q. Derby was
won t’other Saturday by Musket (!), and an even more
gross case of plagiarism, because nearly contemporaneous,
is that of Ben Bolt, who won Caulfield Cup in the 80’s,
while a namesake ran in last Melb. Cup. Also when the
V.R.CJ. Derby winner was registered the illiterate indi-
vidual who did the job spelt his name “Malster,” and
being so registered the horse has to remain with only one
“t” for all time. And the name of Ampier (ampere)
is an outrage.
• • • *
“Old’Un” : Apropos that “bit to nothing”
which drawers of nags in sweeps are expected to lay.
Writer recollects close on 20 years ago that a friend drew
Prima Donna in Parramatta (N.S.W.) Handicap. Trainer
wanted £3OO to nothing. Drawer kicked, and sought
“ Tatt.’s ” advice. “ Why, the owner’ll sell her for £200,”
said burly “ George.” Drawer decided to buy, with the
result that the Donna won, and the mare’s lucky buyer
scooped everything.
• • • *
Colling wood tote proprietor, Wren, has at last
worn out the Vic. detectives by his stubborn resistance.
The present Cup meeting passed off —for the first time
since the tote was established —without a raid. Wren .sup-
plied the demands of Collingwood without having to let
off a single electric bell or raise a solitary' trap-door.
His ingenious and dogged defence of his tote extends
over years, and is a feat compared with which the defence
of Mafeking was very’ small potatoes.
• * » »
The V.R.C. jockey-fund is now a £9OOO invest-
ment which provides 50s. or 60s. a week for disabled
riders what time their broken bones are mending, and
offers them the benefit of a lodge, or convalescent home,
when they leave hospital. The lodge, situated at the
entrance to the V.R.C. carriage-drive, and overlooking
the training track, is a breezy’ example of sec. Byron
Moore’s talent for putting the right thing in the right
place.
* * * *
Byron Moore, by the way, gives a splendid
character to the half-crown Hill crowd at Flemington.
They number about 35,000 on a fine Cup day, and give no
cause for complaint. They don’t pick the flowers or
damage the trees, probably because there are no boards
stuck around warning them against vandalism. Let your
public see that you put confidence in them and they will
not abuse it, says the old tactician. The Hill folk don’t
even make work for the sweepers as compared with the
crowd in the Grand Stand enclosures below, so it would
seem that many of them take away their sandwich-papers
and fruitless betting tickets in their pockets, instead of
scattering them to the winds.
• * • *
Adelaide sly-tote shops now get still further
ahead of the police by adding billiard-tables, chess, &c.,
to their regalia, and securing registration as clubs. On
important race-days the police find numerous “members”
engaged in harmless amusement, and are helpless in the
matter.
a * • «
Old West Darling hands will remember the big
17. V-hands racehorse, Mulga Ned. The old moke ran at
last Tibooburra meeting, and won a race in great style,
carrying 9.7 and his 21 years like a two-year-old. In his
salad days he excelled all previous records by bucking
his own hide off. He now contents himself with getting
rid of his rider.
• a a *
Bruiser Fitzsimmons tells a woeful tale of rob-
bery by Yankee managers, and swindling by alleged
purse-giving clubs. He fixes his losses this way at
125,0C0d01. Worst treatment was when he met Aus-
tralian Jim Hall in New Orleans. Purse offered,
40,000d01. Fitz. won—and got a cheque which has never
been paid. Sometimes he’d draw’ full amount promised,
but often only a moiety. When Fitz. fought that sensa-
tional Nevada battle with Corbett he stood-in with the
promoter, and they brought off three matches on succes-
sive days. The other two were rank failures, and Fitz.
had to turn over the purse (15,000dol.) for beating Cor-
bett, as well as his side-bet (2500dol.) when squaring up.
» * * *
Fitzsimmons, the M.L. pug., having been care-
ful of his money, has bought a comfortable homestead
near New York. Though John L. Sullivan received more
than 500,000d015. during the period of his activity, and a
recent benefit yielded him 15,000d015., the spendthrift
will soon be in need of further assistance.
* » * *
“Jab”: See clever, good-looking Steve
O’Donnell, from this section, is now designated by U.S.
scribes as “ the man with the streak.” This is wrong.
Steve isn’t a cur. He’s nervously constituted, like Mick
Dooley, and wants to be there a few rounds ere he can
get fairly going Australia has seen few better boxers,
but knowledge of the various blows, how to get them
home and how to stop them, doesn’t necessarily mean
fighting ability. The difference between the gym.-
developed article and that with the zest inborn has been
well exemplified in Otto Cribb as compared with the Peter
Murphys, Mick Dunns, and Snowy Sturgeons of the day.
* * * *
“Old Timer”: See English papers announce
the burial in one day of three old-country pugs. One
was Jem Young, Peter Jackson’s sparring partner for a
long time ; another was Harry Tyson, who, in the old
days, had a tough “go” with P.oulsen, the man that once
nearly settled Tom Savers. Tyson was 77 years old.
* * *
*
Nothing new under the sun, The most popular
religious romance of America, “ Ben Hur,” which is
more or less historically based, starts a Roman-chariot-
race with a barrier consisting of a rope stretched across
the course, which rope was dropped to the ground when
the chariots were in line, and the horses galloped over it.
And now, after a trifling lapse of 1900 years or so, “ Johnny ”
Deeble has patented a similar starting-barrier, with
which for months past he has been successfully starting
his ponies at Brighton, Sydney.
« » • *
If S. A. League of Wheelmen wishes to popu-
larise international contests it must look to its handicap-


n RUSH
for the goal, to be successful,
depends on the quality of the
training
To be successful, requires in
other things, besides football,
self-denial. . . .
We have thrown a quarter of
a century’s work into our
earnest endeavours to make
h
ĥ
h
ĥ
DER BY Tobacco
Perfect in Quality, Faithful in Manufacture,
and Unique in Flavour.
Question: HAVE WE SUCCEEDED?
Answer: 3,000,000 lbs. are sold annually throughout Australasia.
19 You needn't Rush it — every Tobacconist and Storekeeper sells Derby,
The Modern Art Jewellery Coy.
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. telephone 3490.
Hall-marked Silver
Scissors, ss, 7s 6d, 10s 6d
XMAS and NEW YEAR GIFTS.
Best Silver-plated Tray, Price 7s 6d.
Others from Is 6d to 5s each.
Pretty in Design and Wear like Silver.
Hall-marked Silver-
Mounted Match Stand,
Price 4s 6d.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE—POST FREE on Application,
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
CONSULTING OPTICIANS,
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
(Opticians by special appointment to his Excellency the
late Sir Robert Duff, G.O.M.G. ; his Excellency Admiral
Bridge ; the Walker Hospital, etc., etc.)
SIGHT TESTED DAILY (GRATUITOUSLY)
by a
THOROUGHLY QUALIFIED OPHTHALMIC OPTICIAN.
SPECTACLES
At Lowest London Cash Prices.
Doctors’ Prescriptions at One-half ordinary Sydney prices.
The Celebrated Uniaxial Spectacles, 10/6.
The success achieved by the Massey Harris
bicycle on the grass of the Melb. cricket-ground track has
not been overlooked by those after the big plums at the
Austral meet. The co. are clean jamb up with orders
from would-be Australites.*
Skilled masseur (Swedish-trained) desires
work as attendant to invalid in country, or travel-
ling. Moderate remuneration. Young man ;
testimonials and references on application to
“Masseur,” Bulletin Office.—Advt.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Elds’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
otfiCe Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Bicycles $ Bicycle Supplies.
OIL LAUNCHES and
“SINTZ ” Marine and Stationary Engines
(1-h.p. to 60-h.p.)
COMPLETED LAUNCHES A SPECIALITY.
American Component Sets to build Bicycles
complete—Latest 1900 Models.
BICYCLE SUPPLIES and LATEST NOVELTIES at
Factory Prices. Factory Agents in Australia for
it IMPERIAL” Bicycles. Good Agents wanted where not
already represented.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
~JUST OUT,~FOURTH EDITION.
Price ss. 6d., Posted.
ħ
by P. R. GORDON,
Chief Inspector of Stock and 11 rands.
Queensland.
With New Stock Route Maps of
Queensland and New South Wales.
WATSON, FERGUSO!) & CO., Brisbane
And all Booksellers.
Talking about “bulling” Chillagoes, here is a
yarn solemnly published in his circular by a member of
Brisbane Stock-Exchange :—“ That the unsettled state of
the English money market, with its attendant influence
on all other markets in the British possessions, has been
apparent to all investors, speculators, etc., for some con-
siderable time past goes without saying, and as the recog-
nized cause, viz., the strained relations and war between
China and the European powers, and the lasting guerilla
warfare being carried on in South Africa, has now almost
faded away, the depressed values may be considered at
their lowest levels, the present is obviously the most
favorable time for securing shares in the soundest under-
takings in mining, for undoubtedly, now that military
operations have virtually ceased, and all the allied Powers
are about to be withdrawn from China in earnest, shares,
which are at the lowest ebb, must rise again rapidly so
that such an opportunity may not occur again. The
market in all stocks, West Australia, Charters Towers,
and Gympie, has been practically dead of late, especially
those on the London market; even our greatest gold pro-
ducers being knocked back to a ridiculously low figure.
Ohillagoe Railway and Mines Limited is proving the only
exception, which, after having suffered a strong attempt
to bear them down from 365. 6d. to 345., and to 345. 3d.
for a time, and then to 345. 6d., at which price they stood
for a few days only, they readily advanced to 365. 6d.
buyers, 365. 9d. sellers, in one clear day. I think these
shares can be bought for putting away, and leaving job-
bing to speculative brokers. As a great factor in this
property, the company’s railway has reached the 59th
mile post, plate-laying is being pushed ahead at the rate
of two miles per week. The following telegram was re-
ceived from the general manager by the Melbourne office
on 6th inst. :—‘ Engineer-in-Chief, Government Rail-
ways, completed inspection to 55 miles. Recom-
mending Commissioner open for traffic Ist Octo-
ber, provided few minor matters finished beforehand.
New wharf passed by Engineer-in-Chief for loco-
motive traffic. Expect s.s. Colac will berth to-day.
1 have been informed by good authority that the company
is about to float the Ruddygore lease on the London
market, which, in all probability, will be over and over
again subscribed. I regard the. Chillagoe Railway and
Mines as the biggest and best thing of the day, and that
the shares ought to reach three to four pounds, after
the railway is completed, and the manager gets a fair
start, and a very much higher figure when the whole con-
cern is in working order, which may be expected at a
very early date. Instead of having 1 million tons of ore
in sight, I consider there is practically exposed in the
Rudd vgOre - 3,000,000 tons ore worth 4 to 8 p.c. copper
Griffith - 250,000 tons ore worth 6to 20 p.c. copper
Redcap - 200,000 tons ore worth 6to 20 p.c. copper
Ti Tree - 180,000 tons ore worth 4to 10 p.c. copper
3,630,000 t .. ..
These are only a few of the figures ; they can be added to
easily. The Ruddygore itself is a very big mine, and my
expert’s estimate is within limits when he recorded (51
five million tons there. Those who have not seen for
themselves should take a trip to Chillagoe to judge. lam
informed the lodes appear to be going strong at 100 ft.,
the deepest of most of the present company’s workings ;
there is reason to believe the figures will be largely added
to. In the Girofla mine—lead and silver—the lode is 75ft.
wide, and they are not through. It was worked 103 ft.
wide at 40ft. by the old company, and the present value
varies from 25 to 60 per cent, lead, 250 z. silver, and about
4 per cent, copper. There are enormous outcrops every-
where, and where they have been tried by the old com-
pany, which they were by trenches and potholes, there
was'copper, but,'unless it went from 15 to. 25 per cent.,
no more work was done, because it was impossible to
make less pay. The present company will do well out of
4 per cent, ore, where it occurs in bulk, and there must
be millions of tons of this besides what I have specified.”
* * * *
Briseis tin-mine (Tas.): Great things are
said of the future of this property, which
is now giving effect to the elaborate scheme
designed by General Manager Kayser—the biggest
part of which is the construction of a water race from the
Ringarooma, providing 100 sluice heads per hour equalling
over 20 million gallons daily, and this independent of 30
sluice-heads from the Cascade River. This will not only
suffice for all sluicing requirements but enable the mine
to be largely worked by water-power in elevating wash
below the present sluicing level. Already proved 15ft.
below it, and the manager estimates the true bot-
tom will be found 30ft. below the level. Re-
moved 130,000 cubic yards of over-burden ; and a
new tunnel-race, driven through dense granite for
800 ft., will be completed in six w£*iks. Altogether this
00. going to completely revolutionise the ordinary
methods of handling a tin-sluicing property. Writer de-
sires to say that it will much need to. ~lt is burdened
with an enormous capital, also with highly-paid directors
in London who do next to nothing for their fees.
It has, no doubt, a highly-paid secretary there, whose
duty it is to see that the directors get their fees. No
doubt it has in London magnificently-appointed offices at
high rental. It has also all this sort of thing in Mel-
bourne, where, perhaps, there is need for it. It has the
highest-paid tin-mining manager, probably, in the world,
who has a very highly-paid staff, and many of ’em. Mt.
Bischoff, which Kavser left for the Briseis, very likely as
much on account of the salary as of the mine, would have
been a poor concern under the same circumstances (pro-
bably it would never have emerged from such a burden),
and'what, therefore, can be expected from the Briseis ?
It may be a good show, but you can overburden anything.
If it pulls out in face of everything it will need to be all
the experts said of it in a gorgeous prospectus.
* * * *
Lately returned from a trip to
Papua, having made a short stay at Woodlark, Sudest,
and Samarai. At Woodlark the strike still continued.
The old hands offered to take £4 per week pending the
decision of the Sydney directors, but the offer wasn’t
accepted. Before going over I said I thought they were
not too sweet on practical miners, and now I know it. A
syndicate offered to take over the mine on tribute as it-
stood, pay 30 per cent, of the gold won, and deposit
£5OOO as a guarantee of good faith—but no deal. Local
holders of scrip, and those on the big island, are disgusted
with the turn things have taken, and the majority of the
shareholders are in favor of the £5 per week wage
which is paid by the Ivanhoe and Charters Towers
Kulamadan. Something queer somewhere. There’s
a new find at a new place called Ikora, near M'Laughlin’s
Creek on the big island, and the prospectors got some-
thing like 200 oz. in a couple of weeks. I saw some splen-
did specimens weighing nearly lib. A rush on a small
scale has set in. Some lucky diggers returning to Cook-
town had nice parcels of gold ; one party of three had
170 oz. among them. There’s no doubt about gold being
in Papua, as nearly everyone who goes there with money
gets some, and a large proportion of those who come up
bound for Ebagoolah go there in preference. But the
drawbacks are many ; provisions are dear, fresh meat and
vegetables are not to be had, carriage by “ boys ” is diffi-
cult and unreliable, and fever and mosquitoes are ram-
pant.
* * * *
Hess (London Critic) is still trying to get
Labouchere (Truth) to withdraw' the injunction against
the publication of Labouchere’s letters to the late G. A.
Sala, and says : “ A man who could indite such stuff as
Mr. Labouchere wrote to the late G. A. S. would be rated
by the nation, if it could read his effusions, unfit to
remain at large another hour. The letters reveal Mr.
Labouchere as a scoundrelly blackguard, a political char-
latan, a cunning rogue, and a low-minded cur.” Inter-
esting to see what move Labouchere will now' make. Hess
is obviously advantaging himself of the unpopularity in-
curred by Labouchere over the Boer-w'ar controversy.
The London Times allows free kicks to a
travelling correspondent, who insists that America
is about to knock England out in iron and steel.
He makes a strong point on the Anglo-Saxon talk
—says the Yankee amalgam is a new one, quite
distinct from the Anglo-Saxon.
Bishop Chavasse, of Liverpool, Eng., asks
his female candidates for confirmation not to use
the new style of stiletto hair-pins. “ Girls com-
ing for confirmation,” says Dr. Chavasse, “should
refrain from the use of long pins in the hair, as
the presence of such pins frequently results in the
Bishop’s fingers being lacerated during the ‘ lay-
ing on of hands.’ ” The alternative of ending the
kiss-of peace, hair-fumbling, buggy variety of re-
ligion doesn't seem to have'struck the Bishop.
The dimax of the everlasting Jingo job-
ber about “women and ohildren” has surely been
reaohed with this cable :
All Boer bouses between Dundee and Vryheid have
b The bU ßritlh are sheltering the Boer women and
children. . ,
The English Grocer compares prices ot
now and 12 months ago. Bacon has fdvanced 20
percent., corned beef and mutton 25 per cen ~
peas 25 per cent., lard 30 per cent., rice 2 pe
cent. ; and so through the list. Well, crowds of
the English working people wanted war ana
they have got it.
The Benevolent Societies’ Fete—one of the
features of the approaching Commonwealth festivities
should command the ready support of al . The object is
good, the price of tickets, Is., is reasonable, and the enter-
tainments to be provided— three concerts in Sydney Town
Hall and a monster sports meeting at the Agricultural
grounds—will appeal to all classes. Further particulars
from Mr. W. Moftitt Burns, hon. sec., 35 Castlereagh-st.
Tasmania has still got its Great Western
syndicate railway joke mouldering on the pre-
mises. When the land-grant co., after nearly hve
years’ delay, was told it must start work or lose
its concession, it set about 20 men to dig a hole.
Being told that this wasn’t starting work, It
offered to spend £2OOO a month on construction,
at which rate the line would be finished m 42
years ; and the Govt, said it would be content
with that, for a short while at all events. Ihe
money was available for one month, and then the
co. stopped work and asked for a few Weeks rest.
This being refused, it found another £2OOO after
some delay, and the work totters along again for a
little while. At present rate, including stoppages,
the G.W. private line, despite the enormous land
subsidy with which it is bolstered up, isn t likely
to be completed for nearly sixty years.
AtNormanton (Q.) there is a small edition
of the notorious Adelaide Hospital row. T* ie
medical officer resigned and handed in a fine,
sweeping report which swept the committee right
off its feet. Items from the withering document:
Tyson, an aboriginal man, came to the hospital and was
placed in the cell. The reason given was that he had no
ticket. When I saw the man he was lying on the cement
floor with his shirt and trousers oil. He was m a filthy
state and suffering from ulcers and congestion of tile
lungs. He was too ill to attend on himself and had no
one to help him. It is impossible for the medical officer
to do justice to the aboriginals unless some arrangement
is made for their being properly nursed. . . . The dis-
pensary at Normanton remains in the same state or dis-
order as when I was appointed medical officer. I fully
intended to undertake the extra work of putting it in
order, but have been prevented by the insolent behaviour
of the wardsman and the peculiar conduct of the com-
mittee. The expenditure of £7O on drugs and many un-
necessary sundries last year was a great waste of money.
. . . The surgical instruments have now been placed m
the new case, where they can be readily found when
wanted and kept fit for use. Most of those present are
out of date and out of repair and quite unsafe for any
operation. Not even a single knife is fit for use. Many
essential ones are wanting. ... I wish to thank the
secretary ... for his courtesy to me . . . and to once
more protest against the insolent behaviour of the wards-
man and matron, and the dishonorable conduct of . . .
. . . certain members of the committee, and a few
vulgar subscribers. I again draw attention to the follow-
ing facts : 1. The rules of the institution are openly dis-
regarded. 2. The funds are misappropriated 3. Ihe
necessary appliances for the proper treatment of patients
are not provided. 4. The building erected for the recep-
tion of infectious cases has been appropriated as a resi-
dence for the wardsman and his family, while infectious
cases are refused admission. 5. Aboriginals .. . are
systematically neglected and discouraged from coming
for treatment. 6. Seven persons are lodged and fed at
the hospital expense, although the average number of
patients is only about one a week. 7. These abuses are not
onlv winked at, but anyone who dares to draw attention
to them is misrepresented and persecuted. 8. The wards-
man acts in defiance of the medical officer and practically
rules the institution. He is supported, and even en-
couraged, by the president and certain members of the
committee, he is also supported by the brethren of a
secret society of which he is a prominent member. When
Masonry prostitutes its influence in this way it proves a
curse instead of a blessing to the community. 9. The
last annual report of the committee is untrue m many
particulars, and is misleading to the subscribers an«l the
general public.—Richard Rkndi.b, F.R.0.5., Eng.,medical
officer.
ping or engage cracks simply as a draw which is too
thin a device. During the recent meet the first-class visi-
tors were, generally speaking, out of the hunt. The han-
dicapper seems to have taken little note of the fact that
those who in past years constituted the ruck have greatly
improved, and know most of the tricks formerly mono-
polised bv the champions, whilst the latter have, in many
cases, “ 'staled.” Most of the events degenerated into
contests for the S.A. riders, with a few of the lions plug-
ging away nowhere by way of a decorative tail.
England’s premier amateur swimmer, Jarvis,
interviewed recently, gave some pointers on the game.
“My chief -exercise is walking; I go along the
road often for 20 miles,” he said. “My leg-stroke is
nothing more nor less than walking, and, as I hold the
opinion that I win all my races with my legs (for my arms
are not powerful), I know that attention to walking is
essential. I always train soft.” This is right. All the
propelling power comes from the legs, and having the
body soft provides greater floating capacity and necessi-
tates less expenditure of strength than if the tissue were
hard and the body consequently more solid and liable to
sink deeper.
* * • •
Strong man Sampson, writing from Buenos
Ayres, says he dislocated his arm and bad handling neces-
sitated a fresh operation under chloroform. Letter
finishes pathetically : ci Should anything happen me wish
all friends good-bye.” Sampson seems addicted to acci-
dents He alleged a broken blood-vessel in Sydney
before going to Melb., but pulled through marvellously
inside a week. Later, in France, some other serious
trouble occurred, and presently, at St. Petersburg, the
palm of his hand was torn open. Subsequently, in New
York, he dislocated his knee.
• * * *
Strange, that though Vic. oarsmen are much
ahead of others in the Australias that State’s scullers don’t
amount to much. During the past decade three visitors
have won single scull-championship—J. Bndson (M.L.),
M. Slack (Q.), and 0. Chapman (M.L.) —in ’9l, ’92, and 97
respectively. Facts that oar-rowing is affected almost to
the total exclusion of sculling, and that, in N.S.W.
(particularly) and elsewhere, opportunities for studying
professionals’ styles are more plentiful than in Victoria,
where they haven’t owned a crack professional sculler
for 20 years, account for this short-coming.
* * * *
According to a Govt, return, there were last
year 838,000 bicycles in use in France, as against 200,000
in ’ 94 ‘ ....
The decorous London Field on the state of the
English Turf : “At present it would appear that the
various stewards are afraid of the jockeys, and the last-
named fear neither God nor Devil.”
For beer-swilling, the Boulder City, Kalgoorlie,
folks take the palm. At a recent sports committee
meeting, a resolution was passed prohibiting the serving
of drink to women at the sports on gala day on the
ground that so many ladies had on previous occasions
“ over-estimated their drinking capacity.”
* * * *
Visiting cyclists, without exception, pronounce
Adelaide Oval track the finest in Australia. The track
cost S.A.O.A. £3OOO, but it has more than paid interest.
Holder, the S. Aus. Premier, is called The
Dropper now. He pushes a proposal along till it
meets with opposition, and then, just when his
old chief Kingston would start to really hustle,
he lets it slide. The proposal to have a Conven-
tion to frame a State Constitution has gone that
way.
The wine-crop in Europe this year is pro-
digious, overwhelming, and almost unprecedented.
Prices of the cheapest sort have gone down 70 per
cent, wholesale. However, wine keeps, and im-
proves. . .
Messrs. A. S. Cowley and W. H. Groom,
former Speakers of Q. Assembly, have been
granted permission to retain the title “Honor-
able.” The Bulletin is always delighted to see
politicians like Groom and Cowley gettimg Im-
perial titles.
From a London paper :
WILLIAM PULFORD.—If the Children of William
’ ’ Pulford, formerly connected with the Cosmo-
politan Press, and who is believed to have died in
Adelaide about ten years ago, will communicate with
us they will hear of something to their advantage.—
Winterbothams & Gurney, Solicitors, Cheltenham,
England.
Sydney Telegraph, which has always a
sneaking hatred of State-owned railways and a
yearning for company ownership, published
(7/11/1900) an American whoop (from N. Y. Even-
ing Post) on the cussedness of State railway
ownership. The loudest note of the whoop is
this:—
In the Australian colonies, also, the several Govern-
ments are seriously compromised in the management of
the Government railroads, and in their other industrial
undertakings. No Administration in New Zealand,
or N.S.W., or Victoria, which should set out to adminis-
ter its railroads economically, could hope to remain long
in power. The experiment has been tried of reducing
the number of employes on the Government roads to
something like the force required to operate a railroad in
the United States or England. But the railroad em-
ployes are too powerful a civic body to tolerate anything
of that kind. They insist upon employment as a political
right, and upon the maintenance of an entirely artificial
scale of wages.
And all the railway employes in N.S.W. are
11,279 —about enough, if they were concentrated,
to return five members out of 125. And the
N.S.W. employes average less than 4-J for every
mile of line, while in America, under private
management, and with less population for every
mile of line, there are 5 employes per mile. But
the private enterprise Telegbaph approvingly
spreads the New York paper’s silly lies without
pointing out any little trifles like these.
A fact that contributed not a little to the
downfall of the N.S.W. Government candidate at
Ashfield was that the resignation of the sitting
member was handed to the press simultaneously
with the announcement that the Ministerial sup-
port was to be given to a particular man. Elec-
tors always resent this—they look upon such pro-
ceedings as cool cheek on the part of their late
chosen representative, and usually decline to en-
dorse his selection. At the recent Bathurst bye-
election the fact that F. B. Suttor “ promised ”
the reversion of the seat to a certain individual
was made a strong point by the locals, who, in
consequence, returned an unknown railway em-
ploye rather than the nominee of the Suttors,
though both men were on the same side politi-
cally.
Eight hundred South African women, at a
place near Capetown, have, it is cabled, “pro-
tested against the barbarities of the English,
deportation of Boer women, and the burning of
farmsteads.” The Boer war is developing in the
direction of a war of extermination—a war on
which there never can be founded any peace
between the virile Afrikander nation and its pre-
sent conquerors. Boer women fight like men and
are bayoneted in the trenches. You read of
“the mother Antonius, wife of Jan Antonius, and
her elder daughter,” being “ found in the trench;”
the mqther dying, the daughter dead. The
mother, since dead, with difficulty told the doctor,
Denfert-Selous, that when the piece of shell struck
her and cut the artery, her daughter Marie grasped
one edge of the wound to stop the blood, but was
instantly struck down by a bullet, which broke
her spine. Whereupon Sara Antonius (the second
daughter, aged 17) pinched the vein until an
apothecary of the commando came with a tourni-
quet. And out of Sara’s mouth were shot by a
bullet in the afternoon seven teeth and part of her
tongue.” It now comes to this —that the con-
queror has to subdue the men by striking them
through their women and children And Aus-
tralia is to erect memorials of its share in this
glorious w ar !


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTJSREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
h
ĥ
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
UXT.S.^V.
fflont deplete DJI. Co., EM.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
5* Assurance Society
Limited. ...
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Established 1879.
THE
Ignited Australian mutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital 251,260
Paid-up Capital 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Wf.bsteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasib’e.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23,4 ’OOl .. £3,196,353 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. VV. IT. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London O/jice: 1 Bishopagate Street Within
(comer of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH wales:
SYDNIiy - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Urisbane.
fhe Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
. INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
f)eui Zealand Insurance jje.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 17,1 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 24, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Nov. 27, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., Nov. 27, 5 p.m.
No Transhipment.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 17, 2 p.m.
•Burwah, Tuesday, Nov. 20, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 24, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 17, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 24, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS, &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, comer George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &e.
Jb« Trustees, €x€cOtorS,
AND
BgSOCV Conjpaoy Linjited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £l5O 000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY ... £150,000 0 0
Amount, at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : P. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 600,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
WICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on MONDAY, 14th JANUARY, 1901, forMORTGAGE
BONDS, bearing interest at 3£ per cent. Tender
forms and conditions supplied at all SAVINGS BANKS
in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
TTHE savings bank in victoria
a HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
-DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
l J Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap ly to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
A sftVijf WATCH
FOR NOTHING-.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR. 1500.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF OUR
vv FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading of the follow-
ing puzzle:—
TH* C*MM*NW**LTH *ND PR*SP*R*TY
W*LL C*M* T*C*TH*R.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver Chains to wear
with the watch.
SEND NO MONEY ; simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamped and addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
Mr. E. Highman, of West Broken Hill, writes on 7th
May, 1900 : “ I am happy to inform you that the lady’s
watch you sent my wife about 18 months ago is a little
gem, and has kept splendid time ever since. . . . My wife
would not part with it for a fiver.”
Address— THE MANAGER,
ENGLISH WATCH & JEWELLERY COY.,
PITT STREET, SYPN EY.
jj^wßftzo*
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON. V/.
ħ
h
ORNAMCNTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English Hair
Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and write for
any Information. Country Orders receive our prompt
and careful attention.
HAIRDRESSERS & WIGMAKERS.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
New South Wales . . . \ 680-2 George-st.,
Barbers 9 Supply House I SYDNEY
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz.:—
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 27th November.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
PERSIC, MEDIC, RUNIC and SUEVIO.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
oni occupying whole v idlh of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
||INGLAND VIA
j by the
AMERICA
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Svdney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every THREE WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
ALAMEDA
SIERRA
MARIPOSA
Tons.
Leave
Sydney
Leave
Auckland.
3158 Dec.
6000 Dec.
3158 Jan.
4 Dec.
26 Dec.
15'Jan.
Arrive at
San
Francisco,
8 December 24
30 January 15
19'February 4
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply UNION STEAMSHIP CO.
OF N.Z., LTD., Equitable Buildings, George-street, next
G.P.0., Sydney; corner Collins and William Streets,
Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie-street, Adelaide ;
8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
KT. D. L.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000; Over 3| million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
Steamer.
STETTIN
MUNCHEN
] Tons Commander. * lom Destina-
Sydney tion.
2478 J. Niedermeyer'Nov. 28 Singapor
4636 H. Krebs Jan. 9 Hongkon
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street
Sydney.
Business Announcements.
POKY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MININS, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Beit
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
STUftRT&PO,
PitoPitIETAHY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
■
Our Suit to order at 435. is
marvellous value; made from
all wool Tweeds.Vicunas, or fast
color Serges ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class' f material, £,'! 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, very
good patterns. 13s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure. £5.
Clerical Suits, to measure, £5.
Billing Breeches, 355.
Biding Habits, &c.
. We supply ready made.Men'»
1 capital Tweed Suits. 21s, & 255.
3 Famous Ballarat Serge Suits.
'lndigo dye,2ss.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette Suits, 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Sergo
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests, 19s (id.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. 6d. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10s. fid.
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s tid.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs.
6s. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d„ 4s 9d., ss. 6d.
Travelling Trunks, Bags and
Bugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs. 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. (id.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. (jd.
Soit Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d., all
colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. Gd. Caps, Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants.
Js.9d,
Heck ties, all shapes and colors,
Is.
White Shirts to measure. Gents' splendid Balmoral Boots,
t>s. !)d . Da. (sd.
We like to write letters; so don't be afraid to ask for any
information. Our book, " The Philosophy of Dress.” and
patterns of a‘l kinds and self-meesurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
A Rose of Regret:
Verses by James Hebbleth waite.
- Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCO;
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West: Austrian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE A
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE, .
Transhippingat Fremantle I
to all North Western Ports J
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
November 17.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
December 1.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.s. Warrego, Friday,
November 16.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfield?
**» *• °» :
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents ; _6_BßlDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. IN. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN* MAIL LINE -Weekly
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay!
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas *
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly “ '
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON— Bi-weeklv via
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, Oa Bris
anS e Norman S ton! e ' C °° ktoWn * ThUrSday Island ’
SYDNEy' and Weeklyf*’ M ° ntW *
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
i 1 orcnigntiy.
Vassentjer Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
w SSaffe C iu ets are interchangeable after the
and Cairns with the steamers
of the S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
S 0 “ ndltl °ns to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
and Agencies at all Australasian Ports.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON
-touching at the usual Intermediate Ports. ’
Commander.
j Sydney,
Noon
F. H. Seymour ... ...iNor, 17
W. D. O. Worcester, R.N.R. Dec. 1
I. Reeves ... ... Dec. 15
E. Crewe .. iDec. 29
J. Cowie, R.N.R. ... Jan. 12
v'vmpauj O OVCOiUICIO UUW UU.II r rcUlrtlJlilP
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £3B 10s to £77
Ditto Ditto Return £7llos to £l2l
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia, Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R- BRASIER DF/THUY, Principal Agent.
pddart, parker § go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORT’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows for
MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers w r ere specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
State- of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. CO. LD.
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
nniuiraith.fipi-aciiarn&Ci.
PROP. LTD..
regular line of steamers.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotal ions, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney..-
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.


The bush-workers of the N.S.W. far-back,
helped by a few others, have lately spent £7O .on a
monument in Koroit (Vic.) cemetery to “ Billy ”
M‘Lean, who was mixed up in the ’94 shearing
troubles, had the misfortune to be shot through
the lung at the Grasmere hut, and died 18 months
later, after serving a third of a sentence of three
years. The unions probably would not care
at this time of day to justify half that was
done in that season of hatred and passion ; but
what M‘Lean did he did “ not for personal gain,
but for what seemed to him the good of his
fellows,” and so he deserved something much
better than a long and weary illness in gaol and
an early death, even though a £7O monument
follows it. Say the chief officers of the Workers’
Union in reporting the completion of the work :
“We cherish the hope that Compulsory Arbitra-
tion Acts may be enacted in all the States by
which the bitterness of industrial conflicts with
these sad results may be averted, and there be no
more bereaved parents and martyred M‘Leans to
condole with and mourn for.”
“ Gleb.” enquiries :
Does increased functional power develope in a limb or
organ after the destruction or loss of its fellow ?
It does, for the good reason that Nature to a cer-
tain extent and along certain lines is strongly
compensatory. Such a loss throws extra work on
the survivor, and the increased tissue-destruction
and blood supply so caused result in correspond-
ing development of muscle-substance. One sees
it most markedly in people who are crippled from
birth, and Oliver Wendell Holmes, who was a
brainy surgeon in addition to being a great writer,
speaks about it in the “Professor at the Break-
fast Table,” thus :
If you see a man with legs withered from childhood,
keep out of the way of his arms if you have a quarrel
with him. He has the strength of four limbs in two, and
if he strikes you it is an arm-blow, plus a kick, adminis-
tered from the shoulder instead of the haunch, where it
should have started from.
A trifle accentuated for effect, but fundamentally
true. Other parts—eye and kidney for instance —
follow the same rule for the same reasons. _ The
proportionally greater amount of blood in the
body, after the loss of a limb, also enables the
muscular work and development to be carried on
at a higher pressure.
The drover with his herds out back,
The squatter on his run,
The swagman on the weary track,
In this respect are one.
They all with one accord proclaim
A. Saunders’ goods are best,
And spread the e’er increasing fame,
Of what survives all test. <
Experience combined with practical knowledge
and an undoubted reputation must succeed. If
country friends and visitors to Sydney will kindly
call and see our brilliant exhibition of watches,
clocks, jewellery, silver plate and spectacles, they
must admit that A. Saunders leading art jewel-
ler’s display is unsurpassed. Mind! A. Saunders,
Jeweller, 815 George-street, nearly opposite Rail-
way Station, Sydney. Send for 1900 price list*
Of all the seasonable arts which move the
masses into the realms of fashion, photography
will soon, if it does not already, take the lead.
Being an intelligent, interesting amusement, it is
easy to predict for it an extended season, becom-
ing equally popular with both sexes. A visit to
the photographic establishment of Messrs. Har-
rington and Go., Ltd., 66 King-street, Sydney,
is at once a surprise and pleasure. A large
stock of cameras ranging in price from five shil-
lings up to fifty pounds is here displayed, the
cheaper instruments, being equal to all the re-
quirements of the amateur, either for portraiture
or rapid snapshots, and are recommended.*
Rummier cooking
. . THE . .
‘PRIMUS CHIEF’
WITH A
SWEDISH PRIMUS KEROSENE
GAS STOVE.
This Boiler, Oven and Steam Cooking Apparatus will
cook sufficient for a large family at 1/- per week. Price
from 55/- each. Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
and 422 & 424 EHzabeth-street, Melbourne.
Kalgoorlie has 40 licensed pubs., and
Boulder City 33; yet a deputation of the pub. -
keepers and their friends told Bigjohn, t’other
day, that there were at least 80 sly-groggeries in
the two towns.
A good time is coming for municipal
councillors. At a recent meeting of Port Wake-
field (S.A.) Council it was unanimously resolved
that payment to Councillors be fixed at 6s. per
sitting to date from July last. And why not ?
EBWARDS
h
ĥ
*
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER & RESTORER
iha Very Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EVERY MODERN TOILET.
■
gp
•«
Restores the Hair
Promotes the Growth
Arrests the Fall
Strengthens the Roots
Preserves the Hair
Removes Dandruff
Allays all Irritation
6 MARLENE’
Preserves,
Strengthens and
Invigorates
Children’s Hair.
ħ
Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supph
■*/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4-/6 per Bottle of Druggists &c.,
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., 95 & 9S, HIGH HOLBORN,
ed with every bottle •
all over the World.
LONDON, W.C.
CYANIDE 98-10011
KRUPP BALL MILLS
31 O’Connell-st, SYDNEY; and 15 Queen-st., MELBOURNE.
auction sales.
TO SPORTING GENTLEMEN, HORSE3REEDERS & Others.
FOR DEFINITE SALE,
OHIPFinO OORTQiI ESTATE,
LIVERPOOL, N.S.W.,
Overlooking I Varwlde Farm Hace,course,
Having a large frontage to GEORGE’S RIVER
about 3 miles from LIVERPOOL RAILWAY SPAT •
The Property occupied for years by Hon A. W. LOJNU,
ML 0 s*F~Title, TORREN’S ACT.
Terms : ONE-THIRD cash, and the balance in 5 years at
5 per cent, interest.
THE AREA consists of 502 acres 3 roods 2| perches
The IMPROVEMENTS, which are extensive and substan-
tial, comprise.
BRICK-BUILT COTTAGE RESIDENCE, with slate roof,
in perfect order, containing tiled hall and verandah, lu
rooms, billiard-room, storeroom, 2 bathrooms (hot and
cold water), wineroom, dairy, storeroom, complete kit-
chen, laundry, linen-room, etc.
Gas and water laid on throughout the property.
OVERSEEit’S COTTAGE o.' W. 8., containing 5 rooms.
EXCELLENT RANGE OF STABLES (7 stalls) and 20
Loose Boxes, all well built and finished, of hardwood
with concrete flooring.
Large Hayshed, Implement Shed, Pigsties, Cowsheds
(with bails), Puddling-house, Blacksmith’s Shop, r owl-
yards, etc. .
Two Large Stallion Yards enclosed with 7ft. paling fence.
Three Enclosed Lounging Yards.
Water has been laid on over the Estate, and is supplied
bv 2 good Windmills and an Oil Engine.
THE TRAINING TRACK, 1J miles long, is enclosed with
wire netting.
The Property is subdivided into Cultivation (lucerne,
oats, and wheat) and Grazing Paddocks, all well
watered, cleared, stumped, and securely fenced.
HARDIE AND GORMAN
Have received instructions to sell by public auc-
tion, at the Rooms, 138 Pitt-street, Sydney, at
11.30 o’clock on
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1900,
The above-described Estate.
SPORTING MEN AND' BREEDERS should inspect this
property. IT WAS SPECIALLY SELECTED for its large
area, suitable soil, climate, and convenience to the prin-
cipal racecourses about Sydney, and nearness to the
market for live stock. _ . ,
A VERY LARGE AMOUNT OF MONEY and a long
time of careful attention have been expended on this pro-
perty to bring it to its present attractive state, and in
addition to all this it is confidently believed that the rail-
way from
BELMORE TO LIVERPOOL
will be constructed, and this will enhance the future
value and increase the ready chances of selling this pro-
perty to advantage.
TO COLLIERY PROPRIETORS, SHIPOWNERS,
SQUATTERS FOR STORE STOCK & OTHERS.
Upset Price, 255. per Acre.
Over 10,000 ACRES.
At WYONG RAILWAY STATION, N.S.W., being
portion of the well-known
ALISON EST A T B.
situate on the main line of RAILWAY between
SYDNEY and NEWCASTLE,
north of GOSFORD, having large road frontages besides
frontages to WYONG CREEK, TUGGERAH BEACH
LAKE, and WALLARAH CREEK, as per plan on view,
and now for positive sale on behalf of the owners,
THE SCOTTISH WIDOWS’ FUND SOCIETY OF
EDINBURGH.
TITLE, TORRENS.
TERMS: One-third cash, balance equal amounts, 1, 2
and 3 years, at 4 per cent, interest.
HARDIE and GORMAN (in conjunction with
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd.) have been instructed
to sell by public auction at tbe Salerooms, 133 PITT-
STREET, Sydney, at 11.30 o’clock on
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1900.
The main portion of the ALISON ESTATE, over
10,000 ACRES, at WYONG, near NEWCASTLE.
IN ADDITION to the SURFACE VALUE of LAND
and TIMBER on this large area, together with its large
frontages on both sides of the
MAIN GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY LINE,
its large road and water frontages, special attention is
directed to the proved
MINERAL COAL SEAMS
which underlie this Estate, and which have been proved
by the sinking of TWO BORES, known as the WAL-
LARAH and WYONG Bores, and the quality of the coal
taken therefrom, and at considerable expense in other
ways.
TO MEET THE DEMAND for land in this locality in
suitable blocks, the Estate could be readily subdivided
into areas varying from 50 ACRES to 320 ACRES.
SPECULATORS should inspect with a view to pur-
chase.
THE AREA IS LARGE.
THE POSITION CONVENIENT OF AC-
CESS.
THE COAL SEAMS ARE VALUABLE.
THE TITLE IS SIMPLE.
THE TERMS ARE EASY,
and
THE OWNERS ARE DETERMINED TO REALISE,
even though
THE LOW UPSET PRICE
of
255. PER ACRE
only
SHOULD BE OBTAINED.
t‘ COMMON SUNS 1C EA It DRUM.”
IWI
Heap
pOMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
ol her remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
?29 Collins Street, Melbourne
(U H IT I'M)),
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PROOXJCBRS
OF
FINE SILVER
(Xjiake
Illawarra), ixear fcs'STXJJjM'Hi'Y -
DA.r*TO
J
MAKERS OF
S. Co cf A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
ILLAWARRA"
..BRAND OK..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc. apply to E. A. Weinberg,, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, LtJ., DAPTO, N.S. W. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.


The imposing display in the windows of
W. Jno. Baker, Cutler, of 3 Hunter-street, Syd-
ney, is one of the sights of the city. In the collec-
tion are razors of all shapes and sizes, strops of
all kinds, and shaving soaps and creams of many
brands. Attention is specially called to the stock
of strops made on Mr. Baker’s recently registered
design. A large number of original testimonials
from men who have derived much satisfaction
from the use of W. Jno. Baker’s celebrated razors
are also shown.*
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
A recent advt. :
An Editor’s Life saved by Blank’s Remedy.
We always did say that these patent-medicines
did more harm than good.
Amusements.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
EVERY EVENING,
The Rose of Persia.
The Captivating Comic Opera by Sir Arthur Sullivan
and Captain Basil Hood.
MULTITUDES DELIGHTED NIGHTLY.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
THE NANCE O’NEIL SEASON.
Thurs., Nov. 15 & Frid., Nov. 16, “ PEG WOFFINGTON '
SATURDAY NEXT, NOV. 17, MACBETH.
NANCE O’NEIL as LADY MACBETH.
Plan, Nicholson’s. IBF~ PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampibr.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
and the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
SATURDAY, NOV. 17, and EVERY EVENING,
“THE BLACK FLA 6.”
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ » Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Gigantic Success. Enthusiastic Reception of
MISS LOTTIE COLLINS,
Re-Appearance of the Great American Trio,
EMMONDS, EMMERSON & EMMONDS.
TOD CALLAWAY, FANNY POWERS, Mr. WILL
WHITBURN, ALBERT WHELAN, JESSIE WILLIAMS,
Ferry, the Human Frog, Arthur Sullivan, and all
• our Great Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday,
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Gigantic Success of our Latest Importation,
MR. GEORGE D’ALBERT.
Prolonged Applause Greets England’s Burlesque Queen,
BILLEE BARLOW.
Gigantic and Enthusiastic Success of THE THREE
HAYTORS (Frank, Edie and Arthur), Mr. HARRY
SHINE, and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
Business Manager .. .. Mr. Harry Musgrove.
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, BOHEMIAN GIRL.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, LOHENGRIN.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17, BOHEMIAN GIRL.
Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Unreserved
Front Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family Circle, 2s. ; Amphi-
theatre, One Shilling. Plan at Allan’s.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
THE BLAND HOLT SEASON.
EVERY EVENING.
Melbourne still Enthusiastic over
The Absent-Minded Beggar.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 2s, Is. and 6d. Box Plan
at Allan’s. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
piTZGERALD BROS.’
, . . HUGE COMBINED SHOWS . . .
CircOS aw f^coagerie!
LOCATION ;
EXHIBITION BUILDING OVAL,
MELBOURNE.
ENORMOUS ATTENDAHCES NIGHTLY.
The Largest Spread of Canvas ever Erected in Melbourne,
occupying full extent of the
EXHIBITION BUILDING OVAL.
A programme too vast to specify every individual attrac-
tion presented nightly. Eliciting the highest
surge of enthusiasm ever attained.
STAR ARTISTES
in Every Branch of Circus Exposition.
V.DAY SHOWS^
Wednesdays and Saturdays,
Box Plan at W. H. Glen & Co., Music Warehouse,
Collins-street.
Trams to gates, and leaving for all parts after the per-
formances.
F. JONES, Press Representative.
HAL. GEORGE, Secretary.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK ought to contain A BOTTLE of
END’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
*
For Preventing & Curing by Natural Means
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
TESTIMONIAL. —“ I have been a nurse for ten years, and have nursed cases
of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles, gangrene, cancer, and almost every
mentionable disease. During this time I have not been ill for a single day, and
this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a
pure state. I recommend it to all my patients during convalescence. Its
value as a means of health cannot be overestimated.’ — A Professional
Nurse ( Qualified).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it, you have a
1 WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., at the ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’B Patent.
At Poverty Point.
Geo. Edwardes, of London, the high-priest of musical
burlesque, “finds it difficult,” it is printed, “to secure
competent artists. In all seriousness he offers to teach
any young lady endowed with a fair voice and attractive
features everything requisite for her profession, and to
ensure her £5OO a year to begin with, and £2OOO per
annum at the end of the second year. He ridicules the
idea of an overcrowded profession.” There you are,
girls ! Any of you blessed with a really' fine voice, good
musical ability, fetching and expressive face, adorable
figure, plenty of chic, a good constitution, and taste in
dress can get two thousand a year almost at the start;
with world-wide fame thrown in, and opportunity to
marry some rich and handsome man. But it’s a hard bill
to fill, and nobody in Australia has quite filled it during
the last 25 years but Emelie Melville.
Musgrove starts his comic opera season with the advan-
tage of some new principals, a very pretty girl amongst
them, in addition to Nellie Stewart, who is certainly the
most attractive name on any Australian bill just now.
Nellie will remain in Melbourne to play principal boy for
the Princess’s panto., when Joe Tapley and^ the new
people move along with “ The Scarlet Feather.”
Thu 3 “ Compton ” : Realists must protest against stage-
management which glues the ear of the slavey to the
drawing-room door and makes her burst into the room at
the actual moment of call. Sydney critics complain of
“ Hedda Gabler” causing them depression, but this is no
justification for an attempt to impart unnatural gaiety
to the production by bouncing the servant on from the
prompt side before the missus has done ringing the bell.
Also, how does a “ king of stage-managers,” as M Kee
Rankin’s admirers hold him, reconcile himself to the
MS. of a comprehensive work on Civilisation figuring at
about the size of a Bulletin short story? Lovborg must
have been a writer of phenomenal boiling-down abilities
if he got something equivalent to the whole of Herbert
Spencer on the half-dozen pages which Nance is careful
to open out before the audience as she burns them, ‘be
pronunciation, too, might be licked into uniformity with
advantage, and the experience of Nance and Kingston
alternately alluding to com-rade and cwm-rade is one
which serves no moral purpose for a Sydney audience of
vacillating lingual methods. Further, Hedda’s remark,
“It was this which formed the bond between George
Tesman and caused considerable pain. I noticed a
well-known literary barrister squirming visibly over it.
Surely, even if the acting edition runs so, the combined
talent of the O’Neil co. was equal to its correction.
Revised edition of some stage names, with the real
ones of the proprietors: Stewart, Towzey ; Thornton,
Tubbs; Harwood, Biggs; Montgomery, Tomlinson; Irving,
Brodribb (legally changed); Greville, Rogers ; Howard
Vernon, Lett; Bentley, Begg; Kean, Carey; Nance O’Neil,
Lawson.
G. H. Snazelle is on his way to Australia and M.L., via
Canada, with a set of living pictures entitled “ Our
Navy.”
“ Bonesetter ” re the “ Georgia Magnet ” lI was one of
a committee of 12 a few weeks ago at onffof the lady’s
performances, and, without in the least laying claim to
any intuition, I soon came to the conclusion that the
thing was a colossal piece of humbug. The Magnet
travels on three items: The good old gullibility of the
public ; a pair of arms like a blacksmith’s striker ; and a
fine, fluent knowledge of physics which enables her to
grab the best muscular position and leaves those dealing
with her the very worst. For instance, one of her feats
was to place 10 men behind her in a row and defy them
to push her against the wall ; to show the pure
magnetism of the resistance she asked two others
to hold their hands on the wall under hers. Then,
placing the base of the hand against the wall and the
fingers lightly resting on the hands of the committee-men,
she gave the word and away they went. No result.
“ Any pressure, gentlemen?” “Not the slightest.
Wonderful, marvellous.” Why, 40 men in a broken line
couldn’t push any one against a wall. If the thing is
genuine why not place her hands against a wall and ask
ten men to pull her away from it? “Lifts 10 men !” I
will bet she can’t lift one by placing the hands under the
armpits as she asked us to lift her. “ Ten men can’t lift
her!” I’ll wager that any average citizen—barring
typhoid wrecks or influenza dead-beats —can lift her up
and run away with her—if he is allowed his own method
of doing it.
“ Grace Palotta, with her incandescent smile,” writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent by last mail, “ and
her lovely miss-understandings, sails in the Ormuz next
week to open in ‘ Floradora ’ in Fed. Aust.—that’s not a
part, but the whole of the place she goes to. Her
engagement and palatial salary have set all the towsled
heads here aflame with jealousy. Oarl Hertz is hertzing
with Aclat at the ‘ Empire ’; Frank Lawton bones,
whistles, and dances there. There is also a weird,
« eccentric ’ Sam Elton who, both feet flat on table, sways
forward with rigid body until he picks up the whisky-
bottle five or six feet from his feet. Try it and see how
incredibly easy it doesn’t come.”
“ The theatre-goers of Melbourne and Sydney, in turn,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ must get
their blue-eved glasses ready for G. Musgrove’s ‘ Cinder-
ella,’ for such dresses and ‘ props.’ as I saw in the daylight
this week were never excelled in the most gorgeous
Alhambra or Empire ballet. Talk no more of the
‘ shoddy tinsel and glare ” of the stage after seeing these
artistic dreams and triumphs of Alias, the wide world’s
theatrical Worth. Sounds strong, doesn’t it? But if
George M. doesn’t have to take out warrants against
more than half of his chorus and ballet for absconding in
their stage wardrobes it will be because he will
arrange to have a posse of Mauser-armed Boers
at every exit from the theatre, commanding each
member of the co. to ‘ Stand and undress ’ before leaving.
It is the minute completeness of these gorgeously-rich
apparels that holds you. Every satin robe has its silk
lining, the roses, pansies, leaves, grape-bunches, &c., are
actually in alto-relief built upon the skirts. It is the
latest Paris mode of flowers applique.”
“The ‘Triumph of Hymen’ (continues our corres-
pondent) will boom the wholesale and retail Kinsmans
all over the Federal States, and every Australian
that gazes upon it will desire to live his honeymoon
over again, or to anticipate it. I haven’t had
so much ‘ love ’ around me since I left ‘ me mother’s side.’
There are Heralds of Love, Arguses of Love, Ages of Love,
Bulletins of more love, Acolytes of Love—for ‘Love is
blind' with ‘ her ’ dazzling beauty, or the wedding break-
fast —Incense-ors of Love, True Lovers’ Knots and Love
ad infinitum. A striking effect, which I suspect some
pro-Boer in G.M.’s employ of inventing, occurs thus :
Princesses dressed to represent the flags of nations
‘ come on.’ The British Banner is absent, but the ladies
coalesce in arranged order, suddenly throw their skirts
over their heads, and the ‘ flag that,’ &c., floats
o’er their pretty heads warning back the most dauntless
marauder. Nothing struck me so much, and so often, as
Cinder’s shoe, 1000 gems (Parisian) glittering in a rigid
mesh of silver-tin. Alias told me that he has never done
finer work than ‘ this great show.’ ”
“ N.” : I would enjoy the opera more if Miss Nellie
Stewart was not so alarmingly obtrusive in advertising
herself from the stage-box. The vision of the returned
Nellie in a low-cut bodice begins to pall somewhat on the
men ; but the women ! Written on their faces is “ How
I wish I were she ! ” She wears about the finest diamond
necklace ever displayed in Melb.
J. O. Neild’s N.S.W. Children’s Protection Bill very
properly proposes to “ limit the employment of young
children in theatres,” but contains an idiotic provision
that where a child has special talent, or where there are
any special circumstances, the Minister may grant a
license. Who is to tell whether a child has “special
talent ” before it has learned its stage business and has
been tried, and who is going to take the trouble to teach
it on the off-chance of getting a license ? Again, what are
“ special circumstances ? ” Presumably the Minister will
have full discretion, and may be relied on to give no
licenses unless applications for them are influentially
backed : and a very holy Minister might even refuse to
recognise “ special talent ” or “ circumstances.” Again,
how "would such an Act affect the school concerts which
are constantly being got up by suburban teachers to raise
money for prize funds, &c. ? The smallest children are
constantly seen taking part in “floral-marches” and
similar foolishness at hours when all youngsters of their
ao-e should be asleep. The Education Minister ought, in
any case, to jump hard on the practice of sending the hat
round for any purpose connected with State schools.
How can he have the face to keep children off the boards
in regular theatres when he allows his own teachers to
parade them before the footlights 1
Mrs Boyd mother of a clever little dot appearing in
M.L.' was t’other day fined £lO at Auckland Police-court
for allowing the midget, who is under 10, to perform on
the stage. It appeared at the trial that had the manager
applied for a permit it would have been anU od
proceedings stayed. In any case, children appearing on
the stage, in charge of their parents, are much better
looked after than nine-tenths of the children in private
life.
“ Melb. ” : Legal proceedings disclose that the right
name of the theatrical Stewarts is Towzey. Dick was a
gold digger one time. He made his name in Sydney,
where he was concerned with Ned Holloway in an
exciting theatrical strike. This led to his visiting Melb.,
where he dropped into an engagement with Edwards and
Fawcett, who managed both Royal and Princess’s.
Stewart debuted at the Royal, with success. Thereupon
Harry Jackson, as low comedian of the Princess’s, was
jealous, and insisted on a swap, which came off all for
Stewart’s benefit. At the Princess’s, he dropped in for a
valuable association with Fawcett and Julia Matthews, in
burlesques like Aladdin, and dramas like the Colleen
Bawn. When Barry Sullivan, at the Royal, quarrelled
with Charley Young, Stewart was engaged to replace him,
and appeared as Tony Lumpkin, in She Stoops to
Conquer. Young returned, and both comedians remained
on the establishment.
More unlikely things than that Rickards will have the
Duke of York at the opening of his new Melb. Opera
House. The contract gives the builder until May 14 for
completing the theatre, but all going well it may be ready
by Federal Parliament week.
“ Melb." : St. George’s Hall is not turned into a drapery
after all. It is now a music-shop. Meanwhile Ballarat
Royal, which indignantly suicided, by fire, after being
turned into Snow’s drapery emporium, is once again dis-
playing his frills and furbelows.
“Melb.” : Marshall Hall lies quiet, and is confident of
election again to the University Chair of Music, though
the Orthodox are more than ever savaged by. seeing his
lady pupils from the Conservatorium crowd into Mus-
grove’s choir.
Re the mixed nationalities in Musgrove’s new opera co.
It has been said that their rendering of English opera
leaves a lot to be desired. Still, when one hears “ ‘Ome,
Sweet ’Ome ” rendered :
“ ’Mid play sure an’ pa lasses thoah high my rome,
Be it averse oh wumbull, there snow ply sly comb,”
it does not appear that the Australian public cares much
what kind of Volapuk is served out to it.
“ Melb.” : The excellent basso Tilbury is a reminder, in
appearance, as well as name, of a former pompous Lon-
don comedian—maybe his dad. Tilbury’s being taken ill
while dressing for Mephisto was a faint mephitic reminder
of Federici.
Architect Wm. Pitt, of'Rickards’ Melb. Opera House,
also designed the Princess’s. His father, Wm. Pitt, came
from Eng. with the Iron Pot, as Coppin’s scenic artist,
having been engaged at London Lyceum with Vestris and
the Keeleys, He turned Boniface'in Melb., first keeping
the Garrick’s Head, Bourke-st., then the Royal bars. He
prided himself on a likeness to Shakespeare.
Hard to believe that slim, boyish-looking Jandaschevsky,
of Fitzgeralds’ show, is the father of the damsel who
dances a Spanish duet with him.
“ S.S.” : Billie Barlow is fairly entitled to be considered
a success in Melbourne, I suppose. She is a plump and
pleasing person, with a very great variety of rather
scanty garments that are extremely pretty. She has an
amiable and engaging smile that never seems to get
weary and drop at the corners, and she makes up an ex-
cellent semblance of vivacity by adroit stage movements,
which exhibit her many eloquent curves to the best ad-
vantage ; but it is to her audacity as the exponent of The
Great Joke that Billie mainly owes her popularity. The
British public has got only one joke, and just now Busy
Billie Barlow is its popular hero. And that one joke is
the Bedstead Joke in various shapes and disguises, but
with the Bedstead always in it.
The latest vol. of the Italian Ntjova Antologia mag-azine
has a notice of demised pianist, Kontski, who visited
Australia. It says there never was a performer retaining
such skill to such an advanced age. Only two years ago
he travelled through Siberia, with hardships
from which a young performer would shrink. He died in
Lithuania.
Melb. Philharmonic Society has secured Madame Sla-
poffski for its Town Hall concert on 21st.
“Frances Saville,” writes a Sydney D.T. scribe from
Vienna, “has now for 3 years been leading prima donna
at the splendid Vienna Imperial Opera-house, “ where
she is regarded as absolutely the greatest interpreter of
such universally beloved and famous roles as Traviata,
Gilda (“ Rigoletto ”), Manon, Lucia, Elisabeth (“ Tann-
hauser”), Elsa (“ Lohengrin ”), Juliet, and Marguerite
(“ Faust ”). These roles and all the others in her exten-
sive repertoire she sings with equal facility in either
French, German, or Italian ; but she much prefers to
sing each in the language in which it was written. The
Opera House, which has seating for 3000 spectators, and
acoustic properties which rank before those of any
other house in the world, not even excepting the
celebrated La Scala at Milan, is supported personally
by the Austrian Emperor, who defrays out of his
own purse, any deficiency there may be at the season’s
end. The artists are regarded, therefore, as Imperial
servants, so that their position, even amongst the haughty
Viennese aristocracy', is considered very distinguished.
Madame Saville’s engagement is a fixed one, and is for
eight performances a month, with intervals during which
she can accept other engagements, and she is entitled to
a life pension at any time she desires to retire or resign
her appointment. I had two interviews with Madame
Saville in her beautiful apartments in the Jaquingasse, a
fashionable locality overlooking fine gardens. Her
reception rooms are spacious and filled with price-
less works of art —gifts, for the most part, from
the great ones of the earth before whom she has
sung, while their autographed photographs inscribed
with complimentary phrases, fill every available space on
her tables and mantelpiece's. Conspicuous amongst
these is a portrait of her teacher, the famous Madame
Marchesi(who is justly proud of her brilliant pupil),
one from Doche (the original Camille) bearing a very
touching compliment to her gifted successor in
the role, and, above all, a picture of Alex-
andre Dumas, with a letter stating that Madame Saville
is the only Traviata who has carried out his ideal of the
unhappy Lady of the Camellias. Looking at Madame
Saville as she sits surrounded by the beautiful possessions
she has won for herself by her genius and her industry,
it is easy to see that time is dealing very lightly with
her. Her face has lost none of the roundness and soft-
ness that it had when she left Sydney years ago, and she
has gained for herself a most enviable reputation for
beauty and distinguished dressing. Indeed, she is con-
sidered one of the best-dressed women in Europe. Added
to this, she has preserved a charming, simplicity of man-
ner, which, after all, is the truest badge of a great artist.”
“ Melb.” : The bill-stickers vote Musgrove a beast. He
issues no bills for his opera, relying wholly' on newspaper
advts. The same was done here in the Bernhardt season
at first. The dodge originated in New York a good many
years ago, when a bill-stickers’ strike showed the
managers they' could do without them. The paste had to
go to feed their families.
Cup time recalls the fact that Armes Beaumont, the
veteran Vic. tenor, made his first public appearance at
Geelong in “The Messiah” under the conductorship of
Byron Moore, the V.R.C. secretary. Young B.M. was
running a Philharmonic Society in those days, and “ The
Messiah ” was a record success of youthful enthusiasm.
The united ages of the conductor and his three principal
singers totalled something less than 100 years. The
future Mrs. R. S. Smythe was one of the soloists.
From a Sydney Centenary Hall programme : “ Admis-
sion Absolutely Free. Each person is expected to contri-
bute to the silver collection.” “No compulsion,
but ! ”
After Adelina Antonio’s aerial somersaults at Fitz-
gerald’s Circus the other night John F. Sheridan, who
had brought his curly-headed young hopeful to see the
show, nodded his head reflectively and said, “ I’d rather
risk my life as a comedian.” Sheridan, by'the way, did
lately take some serious risks as a comedian. During
the run of “ A Trip to Chicago ” at Melb. Royal he was
mostly ill in bed what time he wasn’t cracking the
Widow’s wheeze on the stage, and finally the doctor
ordered him to stop working for a time if he didn’t want
to go out of the bill for evermore. The little man,
even now, looks much too sick to be abroad on cold
nights.
An illustrated handbook of Melb. Aquarium and all the
numerous side-shows available to “ bob ” patrons of that
cool summer resort has been compiled by Secretary
Sherrard. Many photos, of fishes, oil-paintings, statuary,
seals, machinery, crocodiles, &c., are mingled with 100
p.p. of instructive letterpress in the Aquarium handbook,
and to glance through this vol. is to marvel why more
Melb. fellows don’t meet their sweethearts at the very
inviting trysting place which a beneficent Govt, has pro-
vided.
George Musgrove’s new staging of “Faust” at Melb.
Princess’s recalls his first production of that opera in the
same theatre, in March, ’BB, with Nellie Stewart as Mnr-
guerite. Result, a big fizzle. The notion of playing grand
opera with a bouffe company originated with Musgrove
himself—or, possibly, with the only Nellie, partners
Williamson and Garner being averse. The artists, capable
enough in their proper line, were square pegs in round
holes on that occasion ; but redeeming features were the
splendid mounting, the orchestra, conducted by Cellier,
and the chorus—the last being, perhaps, the finest ever
got together in Australia. Its rendering of the “ Soldiers’
Chorus” was magnificent, and the march-off of Valen-
tine’s squad, followed by a crowd of stage citizens,
fairly “ knocked ” the rather weary audience. An encore
was demanded, but George had got the “hump,” and
wouldn’t have it. The house clamoured ; and after
the stage had been kept waiting for about 5 minutes the
stage manager sauntered on with his hands in his pockets
and calmly cheeked his patrons. “ Ladies and gentlemen
we’d be very pleased to do that all over again, but we
can’t. And—er—the hour is too late.” This was the show
that ended tragically in the sudden death of Federici,
(Mephistopheles) while descending the trap with Faust,
after singing the last note. Leumane (Faust) while still
going down with Federici in profound darkness,
suddenly felt himself grabbed and pulled off the trap.
They fell together, luckily only a foot or two, on to the
cellar floor, but as Leumane, when clutched, did not know
what the distance to the ground might be, he got a severe
nervous shock.
The old Melb. Queen’s Theatre has survived every other
except the second Royal, second Princess, second Bijou,
and Her Majesty’s. Fire is strangely capricious.
‘ Theorbo ”: If Musgrove comes again next year he
will perhaps introduce Puccini’s enormously successful
new opera of “La Tosca.” He has no new operas in his
repertory. Surely a mistake. “La Tosca” is the “II
Trovatore ”of the day, replete with the like fire. And i
think how widely the subject has been popularised
here by Bernhardt and Potter, and now Nance O’Neil.
“ H.” : I recollect seeing Wirth’s circus in one of the
Melb. suburbs, a long time ago. A shadow pantomime
was visible outside, with a lady trapezian suckling her
baby, and then going upon the high ropes.
S. Australia’s Zoo, which, Adelaideans claim, now ranks
an easy first among Aust. zoos, has cost £20,000 for
buildings and animals. The buildings are unpretentious :
of animals there are within a third as many as in the
Regent’s Park collection at London.
At N.S.W. Highland Society’s smoke social, Mr. Joe
Wolinski sang “My Pretty Jane.” Scotty (to Wolinski,
after the song) : “ Verra guid, verra guid ! but ye’re no a
Scotchman ? ” Smoker (who has overheard), in Scotty’s
ear : “ No, but he’s next door ; he’s a Jew 1 ” Scotty (to
smoker), with asperity :“ Go tae hell!! ”
A Bulletin correspondent in Berlin says : “ Marshall
Hall would be welcome here if the Melb. pietists drive
him thence. lam astonished to find his name not un-
familiar and respected in this country.”
Veteran actor Barton Hill has just completed his 51st
year on the stage. When J. C. Williamson came to Aus-
tralia in ’7B with “Struck Oil,” the scrip was written up
for him by Barton Hill.
In the 50’s present writer saw Joe Rayner, now resident
in a Sydney suburb and aged about 83 years, play
Armand to Mary Provost in “ Camille” at the old tinder-
box known as the Princess’, Spring-street, Melb. After
all the Princess’ escaped the usual fate of play-houses—
fire. Three others, to writer’s knowledge, have also es-
caped—the original “ Queen’s ” in Melbourne where G. V.
Brooke first appeared ; the Lyceum-Adelphi-Cafe Chan-
tant in York-slreet, Sydney; and the old theatre at
Bathurst, which still stands—or did very recently—with
its stage and gallery intact. But it had comedown to be a
chaff store.
When Barnum took Tom Thumb to London for the first
time he was lodged in the hotel where the famous basso
Lablache was staying. A lady of quality, having heard
much of the mannikin, wished for a private view, and,
accordingly, called at the hotel. By mistake, she was
directed to Lahlache’s room, and, on knocking at the
door, was confronted by the great singer—a mountain of
a man, over 6ft., and broad out of proportion. “ Pardon
me,” said the ladj', “ I must have mistaken the room. I
> wished to see Gen. Tom Thumb.” “No mistake, madam,
I am he,” replied Lablache ; “what can I do for you?”
“ B-b-but I expected to see someone very different,”
stammered the visitor. “ Oh, yes, yes ! On the stage,
no doubt; but in private life I can stretch out to my
usual proportions.”
Four ladies have acted Hamlet in Melbourne: Miss
Rose Evans, Miss Cleveland, Miss Pomeroy and Mrs. G.
B. W. Lewis. It is barely possible that some venerable
Rip Van Winkle may be able to add Mrs. Waller, the first
Mrs. Ooppin, or somebody else, to the list.
Mrs. T. P. O’Connor has written a drama called “ The
Lost Leader,” on the subject of the late Parnell and his
famous amour, which was to be produced at a London
suburban theatre in Sept.
Clement Scott says, in his last book on the stage, that
Sarah Bernhardt’s Hamlet is the best he has seen, and
that Irving’s is the second best. The English actors must
be in a bad way if a Frenchwoman can beat them in a
male Shakesperian character. Or is Scott going dotty ?
“ Jay Jay” : “ Nolo ” (in “ Poverty Point,” 8/9/’00) may
add another seven years to the 25 he quotes in connection
with Akhurst’s burlesques, for they were written in 1868.
I speak by the book. The “ Siege of Troy ” was produced
at the old Melh. Royal on 11th April that year, and “ King
Arthur ”on 31st of following Oct. In this burlesque Har-
wood played Sir Modred, and tickled the popular fancy
of those punning times with a play upon his name :
Guen. : “ Be merciful ; upon my knees .” Modred :
“No good!” Guen.: “Ah, you are stone ! ” Modred:
“ No, ma’am, I’m Har-wood.”


Among the Jingo ladies of Capetown, the
latest thing is “ Baden-Powell ” hair-dye. Baden
hasn’t got much hair, but what he has lias served a
useful turn by nearly making the fortune of the
brilliant dermatologist who first advertised the
dye. But what a chance was lost by the man who
didn’t invent the “ Baden-Powell Hair Restorer!”
Think of the advt. ! A picture of the egg-bald
hero on top with the announcement, “ This is the
Hair Restorer which the Defender of Mafeking
didn’t use—and just note the consequences.”
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liability.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Directors: W. M'Millan, Esq., Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0.,
Sydney ; L. A. Jessop, Esq., Adelaide.
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Cltne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassale ; Perth, A. W.
Farquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., 0. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
CONJURING
Apparatus!
Magical
Illusions!
ALL KINDS.
Illustrated Catalogue Post
Free anywhere.
h
WILL jSLKTDRADE,
MAGIC & BOOK ARCADE,
201 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
Scindiah, of Gwalior, has been very
forward in coming to England’s aid against the
mighty. His father, Scindiah, was the greatest
friend of England amid the native princes. After
the death of this Scindiah it was found he had
£3,000,000 of buried treasure intended to pay the
expenses of a war with Britain. It was buried
under his Zenana. The men who planted the
money had all been murdered lest they should tell
tales about the hiding-place and its contents.
Britain considerately borrowed the coin.
ĥ
PRlCE— Single Razor, 10/6; or with Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair Razors in Double Leather Case, 21/- ; or with Ivory
Handles, 30/- Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 each. This
Razor is superior to any in the market, and never requires
grinding. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to
Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness anrl Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAOIiT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
A QUICKSAND BATH.
Serious Consequences.
A CENERAL RESTORATION.
The Case of
Mrs. F. MARTIN.
(by a special reporter.)
if the inhabitants of Sydney were all
wealthy people, with nothing but the pro-
motion of their own happiness to think
about, would they be content to while away
their time in the many picturesque spots
surrounding the city, or would they go
“farther and fare worse?” People upon
whom fortune does not smile too lavishly
are philosophical in patronising the many
beautiful picnic resorts within easy reach of
their homes, and the experiences sometimes
resulting are worthy of a more romantic
period. A pleasure excursion to Botany
some time back had a sensational termina-
tion for the details of which we are in-
debted to Mrs. Flora Martin, of No. 11
Suttor-street, Alexandria. “It was a small
family party,” explained Mrs. Martin to the
writer, “ composed of my husband, a married
couple, some children, and myself. We
were fond of taking a trip to Botany, where
we used to sit admiring the noble expanse of
water whilst the young ones played on the
sandy beach. On one particular day my
sister-in-law and I were strolling leisurely
along with the youngsters, where the tide
ha 1 a few minutes previously run out, when
l stepped on to a treacherous bed of quick- '
sand and suddenly began to sink. Before |
my husband could reach me I had
almost disappeared from view, my head
being the only part visible It was a lucky
thing that my screams were heard, otherwise
I would have been smothered. My husband
ran to my assistance, and with considerable
difficulty extricated me in a fainting con-
dition from the jaws of death. My baby
was then only three months old, and I was
not very strong. The shock my system
sustained had a disastrous effect upon my j
enfeebled condition for months afterwards. j
“ For nearly three weeks I did not stir
out of my bed. My doctor ordered me to
refrain from any exertion, which was
scarcely necessary, seeing that I was in suoh
a condition of helplessness. I was so weak
and nervous ihvt the slightest start brought
on a shivering fit, besides making me give
spasmodic jumps. The first two weeks in
bed werequite sleepless. I could not drive
from my brain the thoughts of the narrow
escape I had. Lying awake night after
night my mind wandered back to that day
of horror, and the most exaggerated
imaginations followed each other in quick
succession until they made me tremble con-
vulsively. I could take no solid food of any
description, and the milk diet upon which I
relied to keep me alive failed to agree with
me. After the light things which I slowly
took in small quantities I was immediately
seized with pain in the stomach, and in the
left side. There was a choking feeling in
the throat, and the stifling sensation re-
sulting filled me with dismay. 1 was afraid
my breathing was going to cease altogether.
I believe this distressing symptom arose
from the lead u feeling of oppression on my
chest. At any rate, the sufferings entailed
by forcing down any nourishment were so
unbearable that I did not eat a quarter as
much as my body required. Consequently
I lost all my flesh. There was not a streak
of colour left in my cheeks, and I was so
irritable and nervous that T did not care to
see anyone, and sometimes could not bear
the sound of my child’s voice. Being so
restless in bed, and not getting any bettor, J
decided to trv and get about a little.” j
“ Did the change do any good ? ”
“ No. I got worse and worse as I grew
older. I suffered from bad headaches, and
I was very often sick. Boring pains over
the eyes were very troublesome, and fits of
dizziness made me reel and almost fall to
the ground. Every morning, on rising
from bed, a dreadful fit of nausea, accom-
panied by violent vomiting, attacked me
with unerring regularity. A bitter fluid
arose from my stomach, and my throat felt
parched. Liberal draughts of water during
the day did not ease my feverish thirst,
which, I think, was induced through a con-
tinual feeling of faintness. My weakness
prevented me looking after the house work,
and the inability to exercise my limbs pro-
duced great weariness. Constipation was
another ailment, my tongue being unclean
and unwholesome. Just below my ribs the
flesh became very tender, and behind my
left shoulder I felt sharp, darting pains. A
| sensation of chilliness in my feet and limbs
was often followed by flushings of my face,
and then a dry, hacking cough came on.”
“You had a perfect complication of ail-
ments.”
“I think I had all the ills imaginable
rolled into one severe attack, and it was
only natural that I became low-spirited and
despondent, besides being discontented
ith everything and everybody. I was
always in dread of trouble arising, and had
a melancholy desire to be alone. Even
talking fatigued me ; reading was out of the
question, as my eyes were too dull and
heavy. From downright exhaustion I
occasionally fell into a short doze, and then 1
had dreams of a frightful character, which
made me dread falling asleep.”
“ What did your doctor say ? ”
“He said I was suffering from excessive
nervousness, and that my digestive organs
were greatly impaired. He gave me a lot of
physic, which did no good. My nerves
were still shattered, and my frame was
reeking with paius. My husband again came
to my rescue. I was more dead than alive
when he brought home a bottle of Clements
Tonic. Until then I had not found a remedy
to relieve my troubles. Clements Tonic
gave relief immediately. It gave tone to
my nerves, enabled me to eat and sleep,
and destroyed all my aches and pains. My
health was soon perfected by Clements
Tonic, and that is why I desire my cure to
be made public, which you can publish in
any way you like.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I. Flora Martin, of No. 11 Suttor street, A' x-
andritt, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wale*,
do solemnly and sincerely deolare that 1 have care-
fully read the annexed document, consisting of three
folios and consecutively numbered from one to three,
and that it contaius and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements-which 1 give voluntarily, without receiv-
ing: any payment; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing: the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “ An Act for the more effectual abolition of
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of Lire Government of New South
Wales, and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof,
and for the suppression of voluntary ar.d Exf ra-
judicial Oaths mil Affidavits "
Declared at Alexandria this 28th day of .September,
One thousand nine hundred, before me,
MMES PARR, J.P.
Business Announcements.
C. G-. HA-TTE’S
Display of
Spring & Summer Millinery
and Dress Fabrics
is the
• SHOW OF THE SEASON •
Ladies will And Hatte’s Show Rooms a
palace of enchantment, surpassing any-
thing of the kind to be seen elsewhere.
The Millinery is directly imported from
the best houses of Paris and London ; and
the Dress Fabrics have been most care-
fully selected by Hatte’s home buyers
from the leading manufacturers of
England, the Continent, and America.
m- HATTE’S TAILORING DEPARTMENT
has achieved deserved renown. The New
Season’s Goods are just opened, and are
most beautiful.
For ordinary wear, you can desire
nothii]£ better than one of his
TWO GUINEA SUITS to Measure
(including extra pair of trousers). You
have a big range of materials for selec-
tions ; the garments are admirably cut
and beautifully finished.
If you cannot pay a visit, write for
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms
(free) ; and your orders will be faithfully
and satisfactorily executed.
In every department you will save at
least 30 per cent, by patronising
O. GJ-_ HA.TT E,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND-
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
jVo skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs. —The Machine purchased from you is per-
fect. The Stuff turned out is splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers. — Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says :—“ It is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says :—“ Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says : —“ I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”.
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W..
says:—“ It is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says :—“Since getting one of
your Machines, and making my own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says:—“ Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says:—“Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says “ Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says : “Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says : “ Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt w'ant exists for
a good quality of Aerated Waters. Observe the profits.
Call and see these Machines, or write for Circular describ-
ing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co.
407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
Vy
Weak
Men.
There is nothing like ELECTRICITY to put life, vim
or vigor into weak men or women. Drugs give but
temporary relief; act merely as a stimulant, but Elec-
tricity flies to all weak parts of the body, imparting
Nature’s force thereto and doing the required work surely
and in a permanent manner. If “ run down ”in health
and strength you had better try Electricity. Use an
Electric Belt, for that is the best method of applying it;
but be sure you get a good one while you are about it;
in short, try “ Dr. Pierce’s,” for it is guaranteed to be the
best Electric Belt on earth.
“ Booklet No. 2,” sent by mail for a stamp, tells
all about it. Address
PIERCE ELECTRIC Co. y
620 Market Street, SAN FRANCISCO, U.3.A., or
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
Hypnotism
ħ
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE.
Wonderful, Mysterious , Fascinating -
I teach you to become a Hypnotist.
You can perform astonishing feats, and
produce fun by the hour. Gratifies
every ambition, ar.d brings health,
happiness and success in life. Cures
disease and bad habits. I send my largo
elegantly illustrated lesson and full
particulars FREE TO ALL on receipt
of 2 stamps to cover postage. If you
desire this precious knowledge write at
once. Address—
Prof. R. H. Barraden,
79 PITT STREET, BYDNEY.
Business Announcements
A NEW FiLIVT CAMERA.
Price
5/-
Only.
THE
Price
51-
Only.
Despite its low price, the
Brownie Camera is Not a Toy.
It takes splendid photographs,
size 2£in. x 2|in.. and is Loaded
and Unloaded in Day Light.
KODAKS from SS. to £7 15s,
Of all Photographic Dealers
throughout Australasia, and of
KODAK Ltd.
“THE BLOCK,”
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Also at London, Paris, Berlin, Brussels, Vienna, St.
Petersburg, Moscow, and Rochester, N.Y.
Send tor Illustrated Price List, and
“gout v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO,
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidt nee, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pnoux & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
Wa
XJSB
SPOONERS
filter
SPOONERS
rnmy -W+fL
IWTtNT LEATHER BOOTti
GLAZED RIOS
£/«**< t*4**"ii •»*«
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.


STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S
RELIABLE TIMEKEEPERS.
Beware of Imitations.
S. D. & Co.’s Special Value in Wa.ltha.rn Lever Watches,
has best-finished movement, enamel dial, gold hands, heavy
hunting Hall-marked silver cases, and is recommended as a
Reliable Timekeeper. £3.
S. Di & Co.’s Ladies’ Silver English
Lever Watches. Has fine-finished
” ! m . capped jewelled movement, En-
—-TTPfI Silver C-vses, £3 10s.
■- ~ V-
S. D. & Co.’s 18-ct. Gold Keyless “ Prin-
cess ” Watch has finely-finished
jewelled movement, strong, solid 18-ct.
Gold Engraved Cases, perfect keyless
action, £5 10s,; Half-Hunting, £6 ; open
face, £4 10s.; also in Silver Half-Hunting
or Full-Hunting Cases, £2 10s.; open face.
£2. Warranted for 2 years.
8. D. & Co.’s “rxceisior” Keyless English
Lever is unsurpassed.l>y any watch. It is compact,
convenient and reliable, dust and damp-proof, has
l>est f-pidte movement, full jewelled in rubies ; real
chronometer -balance, heavy Hall-marked Silver Cases,
each gua ran teed for. 5 years, l'6l/ s ; in heavy 18-ct.
Gold Cases. £■& ; open face, £lB 10s.; also made Key-
wiml Hunting, in nuw-'Ve Silver Cases, at £f>. Strongly
recommended. Sd Keyless lluntinjj ftotheiham
Engl , Levers, £ti 10s.
g. D. & Oo.'s “Derby” Double Chronograph gives an
instantaneous record of any event in minutes and seconds ; the
movement is |-plate lever, jewelled in rubies, fine chronometer
expansion balance, Brequet spring. In Solid Silver Cases, open
face, £6 10s. ; Hunting, £7 10s. ; in 18-ct. Gold Oases, open face,
£2O ; Hunting, £22.
S. D. & Co.'s “ Eclipse ” Watches have finest quality J-plate
full-capped, dust-proof movements, jewelled in 8 holes. Extra
heavy sterling silver cases, and are perfect timekeepers. The best
watches at the price ever sold. In Hunting Cases, £2 ; Crystal
Front, £1 10s.
S. D. & Co.'s Gent.’s Gold Keyless Hunting
Lever Watch has fine-quality J-plate lever
movement, jewelled in rubies, chronometer ex-
pansion balance, perfect keyless winding-, strong
18-ct. Gold Cases, £l5 10s.; in open face, £l4 10s. ;
size smaller, £l2 10s.; in Hunting Cases, Solid
Silver, £2 10s.
The “Triumph” Watch, for Gentlemen or
Youths, is a Gigantic Triumph over any other low-
priced watch already in the market. Polished
Nickel, keyless, short wind, 18s. Cd.
/
I
m
i
i
S. D. & Oo.’s Lady’s “Eclipse” Sil-
ver Watch has finest quality f-plate
movement, jewelled in 8 holes, beauti-
fully Engraved Case, elegant tinted opal
dial, a perfect timekeeper, £1 10s. ; in
Hunting Cases, £2. Warranted for 2
years.
S. D. & Co.’s English Hunting’ Lever Watches contain special patented improve-
ments. ensuring durability, timekeeping-, and freedom from accident in wear. The movements
are full-capped, dust-proof, jewelled in rubies, and the cases are Strong Sterling Silver, Hall-
marked, £3 10s. Warranted for 3 years. Special quality, with chronometer expansion
balance, and 3 pairs extra jewels, £4 10s.
Kotherham English Lever, Hunting Silver Key-wind, £4 10s.
S. D. &Oo.’s Ladies’Magnificent 18-ct. Gold
Keyless “Nonpariel” Watches are
truly a speciality amongst specialities,
much recommended to ladies who desire
a unique, compact and elegant inexpen-
sive Gold Watch. The entire watch is
most exquisitely finished, fine full
jewelled movement, 18-carat Gold Strong
Gases, perfect keyless action, convenient
and reliable. Hunting Cases, £7 10s. ;
open face, £6 10s. Warranted for 3 years.
S, r>. & Co.’s Lady’s Goal Keyless Wal-
tham Lever Watch, with best
finished f-plate movement, patent safety
barrel, expansion balance, jewelled, strong
solid Gold l?ngraved Hunting ('uses, per-
fect keyless action, sunk seconds, and
enamelled dial, 10s., exceptional value ;
Silver Cases, J-ii 65.; open face, L 3.
S. D. & Co. » .... uoid Key-
less 3-plate Levers, in beautifully
engraved or plain eases, line full-jewelled
movements, chronometer balance, and all
latest improvements, are thoroughly re-
commended. Each watch warranted for
6 years. Open face, 4110 10s. ; Hunting,
S. I). & Co.’s Cent's Keyless Waltham Lever
Watch, linest quality plate movement, lilted
with patent safety barrel, expansion balance,
Brequet spring, heavy tiovernment llall-marUed
Silver Hunting Cases, C.'i; in l(t-et. Cold Cases,
CD lUs. ; 14-ct. Gold Cases, *lll His. ; lb-ot. Gold
Cases, Clfi 10s.
Any of the Watches illustrated above will be sent, securely r
and Post Free, o
receipt of remittance.
412 George Street and Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. PERTH. AUCKLAND. WELLINGTON. LONDON.


REMEDIES JAUNDICE
amoaaHm
azisttDvxa
«?ss;
VTC
I b
Si
m
jiiiii
it
KUT NOW’S
improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
s
//J
m
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap
V.
ih
LP
vi
4 m * London:'
41, FARRJNGDON ROAD, E.C,
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.'
EXACT SIZE
OFTHE BOTTLE
By Cleansing | Strengthening the Liver.
By Restoring Order and Activity to the Liver and Promoting
the Flow of the Bile into the Intestines, KUTNOW’S POWDER
gives Speedy and Certain Relief-
Jaundice consists in the absorption of the bile into the blood, and is the result of the flow of the bile from
the liver being stopped. This stoppage may be due to the canal of the gall-duct becoming blocked by gall-stones
or it may be caused by thickened bile. The trouble originates, in the first place, from a deranged condition ot
the liver, and hence, when a person is attacked with jaundice, he has usually been suffering for some time from
langour, headache, low spirits, nerve troubles, insomnia, and other symptoms of liver disordei.
A sluggish and disordered liver generally arises from careless eating and drinking, and from insufficient
exercise, which weaken it and prevent it from properly performing its functions. These functions are so many
that, even when in a healthy condition, it barely manages to do all that is required of it. the greater part ot
the food, after it has left the stomach, is filtered through the liver and carried to the different parts ot the body
by the blood.
Impure matters in the food are stopped or neutralised; the sugar of digested food is detained so that it
can be doled out to the blood in the quantity required for fuel purposes; and. the liquid termed bile is secreted
which serves as a natural aperient and deodorant, and also aids in digesting the food after it has passed thi ough
the stomach.
When the liver becomes deranged, the bile, instead of getting into the intestines, becomes mixed with the
blood and causes the skin to turn the yellow tinge recognised as evidence of jaundice.
When this occurs, the only really effective remedy is furnished by a course of Kutnow’s Improved Effer-
vescent Carlsbad Powder, which, by washing out of the liver the impurities which as a result of careless living it
has become filled with, restores the liver to an active, healthy, and strong condition. It also, by rendering the
bile more fluid, promotes its flow into the intestines, and in this respect further helps to dispel the jaundice
which the torpid condition of the liver has produced.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all reliable Chemists and Medicine Vendors
See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature, “S.
KIJTJS OW & CO., Ld.,” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness. Insist on (t KUTJS Oil’S,’
end firmly refuse any substitutes ; they may be worthless, probably injurious.
PROPRIETORS —^
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A
KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New Ycr!i City.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“E.D.”; Sometime back I wrote a short de-
scription of the most malodorous job on this continent-
unpacking tanks of eggs preserved in lime. Yesterday I
met one of the men I saw engaged in the work. He was
carrying both hands in slings, and they were hideous to
behold. The man has not been able to do a tap of work
since. The lime had almost destroyed the flesh of the
hands and wrists. How would employers’-liability apply ?
* * * *
Photographers use a vast quantity of albumen
in albumenised paper. Myriads of eggs are concerned in
the production, and must be had very cheap. China is
the paradise of cheap duck-eggs. A few years ago, when
the photographers found this Golconda, duck-eggs could
be got for 7d. per 1000. German albumen manufacturers
established themselves in China. Of late the egg-price
has gone up to lid. per 1000.
* * * •
Some weeks ago a sometime teller of a M.L.
country branch of the Union Bank did the “ Pacific
Slope,” leaving behind him a 150-sovs. hole in the bank’s
dollar-heap ; The absentee had been 22 years in the
bank’s service, and was receiving the staggering screw of
£135 per annum. Strange to say, the popular sympathy
is all with the gentleman who has left, and some papers
have risen to say that they regret he didn’t get away with
more of the bank’s cash. The institution in question has
paid dividends ranging from 5 to 36 per cent.—and no
wonder. There is no member of the community who
wants the protection of a minimum wage so badly as the
bank clerk. Maoriland Govt, has squelched the practice
of working the bank clerk long hours of overtime, despite
petitions which the “ heads of the profession ” made him
sign not to be put on the same level as the—haw—factory-
hand. But something more is wanted before this griev-
ously-sweated toiler will get a chance to live like a
civilised white man.
* * * *
“ Jimmy S.” : Re the press statement that the
N.S.W. iron trade is “looking up.” I know practical
tradesmen who do engineering, turning, fitting, dressing,
with pattern-making and carpentering thrown in, for 6s.
a day. Not one foundry in 20 has a union, and a non-
union man is helpless in the hands of an unscrupulous
employer. A boy starts at a foundry to learn a trade, as
he fondly imagines. Gets 6s. a week, and is put on
brushing the dirt off castings. Has to keep three or more
dressers supplied with clean castings, and has to lift hot
castings of lcwt. or so, and give lifts-on, lifts-off, fill-ins,
&c. As a general rule, he gets the enormous rise of 2s. a
year. A competent dresser’s wage is ss. a day, but it is
difficult to get even this, as boys do the same work for
10s. to 14s. a week. When a dresser is wanted now at a
foundry, it is generally an “ improver to the dressing”
that is advertised for. After a boy has worked for about
18 months at odd jobs he is put on dressing, or moulding,
and kept doing the same work, with never a chance of
learning anything more, until he “ quits,” or until his
wage reaches about 16s. a week, when the slightest
pretext suffices to “sack” him and make room for
another boy at 6s. a week; and the wheel goes round again.
An instance of the injury boy-labor does to the irontrade :
At a certain foundry, a few years ago, two moulders, each
getting 9s. 2d. a day, made six boxes of a certain article a
day. At the present time, two boys—one getting T2s. a
week and the other Bs.—put in 16 boxes, and sometimes
more, of the same article in a day. Again : the Shops
and Factories Act provides for time-and-half to be paid
for overtime to boys under 16. Time-and-half at 6s. a
week only amounts to 2d. an hour. If the employer were
forced to pay triple or quadruple time it would prevent
the lads from being overworked ; but, as matters stand,
they are rapidly being made old ’uns before they are
young ’uns. The best idea that can be given of the state
of the N.S.W. iron-trade is that no one employed at it will
put his son to it—if he can possibly help it.
* * * *
A Melb. ticket-scalper the other day smartly
bowled out one of a supposed gang of ticket-fakirs. Man
strolled into scalper’s office with a couple of “ round ”
tickets from Adelaide to Sydney and back, first quarter
only having been used. The ’cute scalper noticed that, in
placing the two tickets exactly face to face, the marks of
the “ nippers ” exactly corresponded, showing that they
had been held together every time they were punched.
This extraordinary coincidence set him thinking ; ulti-
mately he sent for the police. Vic. Supreme Court some
while ago refused to declare ticket-dealing (scalping) ille-
gal, and the Railway Department, which annually loses
thousands through the business, is in a quandary.
Simplest plan would be to do away with the return-picket
system, as Maoriland is doing.
* * * *
Leigh (Vic.) shire council claims to have the
champion rate-collector in Mr. J. Clark, who in 35 years
has gathered in £68,000 without incurring any law ex-
penses, and.without allowing any financial year to close
with a single penny of rates outstanding.
* * * *
Another Sydney oysterman states the vendors’
profit at Od. a plate. Tnere’s no doubt, for a city in the
middle of oyster beds, Sydney oysters are too dear. But
“ shilling-a-plate ” is a profitable trade tradition. “The
sellers,” said the oysterman, “ make all the money, while
we, who gather the oysters, do all the hard work. We
sella bag to them (45 to 100 plates) for from £1 to £llos.,
and it produces from £4 to £5.
* * * *
During the year ended 31st. May, 1900,
defalcations amounting to nearly £200,000 by Victorian
“gents one” have come to light. Most of the money
seems to have been misappropriated from trust estates,
and the two biggest robbers had previously posed as among
the most goody-goody in the “profession” down south.
Moral : put your trust in a responsible trustee-company
—and have somebody and something solid to “go for” in
case of any default.
♦ * * •
A kindly-disposed merchant in an Australian
city has supplied a local charitable society with blankets
at cost price for many years. One committee man, a
retail draper, who is likewise a strong churchman,
becoming cognizant of the fact, waited on the merchant
and remonstrated with him, representing that by this
action he was depriving shopkeepers of possible profit.
The wholesaler replied : “Well Mr. -rather than have
any unpleasantness about it, we will henceforth allow you
cent, on all blankets we supply to the society.”
And that draper has complacently drawn that percentage
ever since. Business is business !
* * * *
“J.”: Another trick of trade. Was puzzled
recently to find, every morning, on my balcony, a copy
of a daily paper, and when the Sunday journals began to
arrive also, I thought it was about time to investigate, as
some agent might be trving to run me into debt on the
strength of my non-refusal. Found that two neighboring
agencies knew nothing of the matter, but, upon inquiring
at a third, the proprietor, who was conversing with
another man, took me hurriedly aside. “ Hush ! ” he
whispered, “ you won’t have to pay for the papers. You
see, I’m going to sell out to that chap I was talkin’ to,
an’ I have to take him round of a morning to show him
my big lot of customers. It’s costing me a bit in the
meantime, but I expect a return in the price I’ll get! ”
« * * *
“Amb. G-.” : Our local bobby on roost-robbers
and things “ If ye waken any morning and find yer
prize stock has vanished, it is sure to be either Wednes-
day or Saturday—them’s market-days, and the real pros,
at the game don’t take no chances of been ‘ found in pos-
session.’ Also, in most cases your fowls are ordered before
they are ‘ shook,’ and if you see be the papers there’s
goin’ to be a big ball or banquet jist you keep yer eye
harrd on yer fowl-house. A man kem one night to Mrs.
—— and offered her a pair of turkeys for 12s. 6d. Pitched
a tale about havin’ to carry ’em to Enfield, and came
down by degrees to ss. She took ’em at that, but when
she went to put ’em with a pair of her own, she found
they was her own ! ”
* * * *
Sponges found at the Chatham Islands, M.L.,
and taken to England have been pronounced superior to
those of the Mediterranean, and a small co. has been
formed to conduct operations at the islands.
* * • •
Dear Bulletin,— N.S.W. solicitors commonly
write : “ And unless my client’s claim, together with my
costs, 6s. Bd., be immediately paid, small-debts process
will issue without further notice.” Whereupon recipient
generally concludes, “Best pay, and be done with it.”
Now, is' not this 6s. Bd. really obtained by a false pre-
tence (of intention to sue) since shark well knows that he
can’t obtain professional costs in the Small Debts Court?
The threat to sue in that court, unless professional costs
be paid beforehand, is, therefore, moonshine, and pay-
ment is thus obtained by not very indirect misrepresen-
tation. The tactics, in a word, are dishonest, and the
Supreme Court maintains silence while hundreds of
ignorant men are daily paying its officers the fees thus
extorted. —Beth.
* * * *
The Transvaal mines are led off by the Con-
solidated Goldfields Co., with £19,850,000 capital. Next
came Wernher, Beit, and Co., £18,474,567 ; Robinson,
£14,367,500 ; Barnato Estate, £9,675,000; Farrar’s,
£6,545,300 ; Neumann, £5,416,500 ; Goerz’s, £4,530,000 ;
Albu, £3,700,000; Henderson, £3,510,000; Cohen’s,
£2,250,000. Various groups in which none of the fore-
going combinations are interested show a total capitalisa-
tion of £12,483,750. The mere nominal capitalisation of
these co.’s reaches £101,102,607. As the market value, on
the average, is considerably above par, the monetary
power wielded can be appreciated.
* * * *
The Chow as a humorist. A Chinaman in
Winton (W. Q.) sent the local hospital an owed account
for £2 13s. 6d., which he said the institution could have—
“ if it could collect! ”
* * * •
“Had”: Talk about sweating! I engaged
recently with a Melb. suburban hotelkeeper as billiard-
marker at 12s. 6d. a week ; but discovered that my sup-
plementary duties panned out—Get wood and coal for
kitchen ; clean boots; sweep bar and hall; wash ditto ;
clean spittoons, brassware, knives, mirrors, and lamps;
wash out twice a week billiard-room, courtyard, &c. ; run
messages, &c., and sweep back-yard. All this besides
marking billiards till 2 or 3 a.m. “ Oh !” said the boss,
when I remonstrated, “ you must get your rest when you
can.” He also kept me two days short in my wages, and,
when I told him that was illegal, he said, “ If you don’t
like it you know what to do.” When I left, five weeks
later, he still stuck to my two days’ wages, until
threatened with legal proceedings.
* * * *
Dr. R. M. Sly, whose opinion as counsel
Waverley (Sydney) Municipal Council sought as to
whether an alderman can legally carry on the business of
an undertaker in a cemetery under the control of the
aldermanic body, writes that he cannot.
* * * *
The three balls hanging out over a pawnshop in
Elizabeth-street, Melb., are coloured red, white, and
blue.
* * * *
A Sydney “ religious ” rag expresses its surprise
that a certain Sydney R.C. firm should be agents for a
certain Protestant-owned Dublin whisky !
• * * •
A Maoriland farmer, of the sober age of 47,
was lately committed on a charge of finding a new way to
pay old debts. It is alleged that he settled up by the simple
process of putting a revolver to his creditor’s head and mak-
ino- him sign a receipt under pain of sudden death. . There
was a contra account ve which there was some dispute,
but that is also said to have been settled in the same off-
hand way. Defendant asked plaintiff if he had come
round to his view of the matter, and plaintiff, after
another look at the “ gun,” said he had, and gave a
cheque Then he wrote a letter ordering the withdrawal
of certain law proceedings, and everything being thus
settled defendant amicably left the premises backwards.
j|g )fc ♦
“Hasta”: There are other “confidence-
men ” than those of the stamp of the guileless
philanthropist, with a defunct rich uncle. An instance :
Some time ago, a person from the country was forced to
seek relief in bankruptcy. The affair, transacted through
a local solicitor, was so simple and easy that said
solicitor’s city agent had but a nominal duty to per-
form. The certificate of discharge was not asked for
until bankrupt, making a visit to town, mentioned the
matter to the agent in question, and was told that much
trouble had been necessary in the matter, and that,
but for knowing the Registrar personally, he (the
agent) didn’t think he would have got the certificate at
all, as there were some strong opposition. A gentle
hint however, was given that a payment of £5 would
much facilitate matters. The bankrupt, however, took
the matter in his own hands, saw the Registrar personally,
and discovered that he was the subject of an impuden^_
attempt at extortion, as his certificate was granted with-
out the least difficulty. Nothing was done in the matter,
because this precious Gent One would probably
wriggled out somehow ; but a man of his stamp
much bigger rascal than the miserable street- g
man, who promptly goes “ up ” when he is cuught at it.
* » * •
Dear Bulletin. — Be the alleged exodus of young
men from N.S.W. Small wonder that it should be so.
A few'facts. After 10 years’ clerical work in a big Syd-
ney warehouse I got a 15s. rise in my salary, making ip at
that only £2 a week. Another man in same office rejoices
in the capitalistic screw of £2 14s. —but As is nearly
years old—after 12 years’ solid work. When originally
engaged, he was promised £3 10s. if he suited. He g
only £3, but having a wife and kids, he had to take it,
and when the banks collapsed in ’93 he had his screw
docked. At the same time several were dismissed, and
those who were kept on had to do two, and often Wire ,
men’s work, without extra pay. Even lately, when a
smart clerk left to better himself, his assistant got 15s.
rise and had to do both men’s work for £2 15s. And all
this in the service of a “ merchant prince who sud-
scribes liberally to any political or religious movement
which will serve to advertise himself. Indeed it is com-
mon for big Svdney business-men to sweat and screw
their employes in order that they themselves may be much
in evidence when the “ hat ” goes round, and so acquire an
utterly false reputation for generosity and public spirit.
—Ohippin. .
* * * *
In S.A. Bankruptcy Court lists, the other day,
there were seven names ; and six of them were foreign
—mostly German.
* * * *
“R. A.” has discovered a curious fact. G-ive a
usurer, say, 5 promissory notes to-day. Their weight is
then less than loz. Assuming these p.n’s. run from one
to five months, the last one will be found to weigh over a
ton before it becomes ripe. Try it and prove for yourself.
This is not a patent-medicine advt *
Be the man convicted of stealing his own shirts
from his laundryman (B. 26/5/’00.) This is certainly law
in Maoriland. It is laid down in the Criminal Code of 93
that “ Theft may be committed by the owner of anything
against a person having a special property or interest
therein” The laundrvman had an interest in the shirts
to recoup himself. The Code made a good many changes
in criminal law ; but English law is probably the same on
this point. * * *
'«p.H.C.” : Be par. (8., 6/9/’00) about the “ mere
matter of form ” document—which is practically a bill of
sale. Certain Sydney usurers, as an inducement to bor-
rowers, say, “ Bills of sale not registered. Now, accord-
ing to the Act, all b’s-of-s. must be registered within SO
days otherwise they are void against the Official
Assignee, &c.; so the lender makes an arrangement
whereby the borrower—of course, “as a matter of form
—is to execute a fresh bill every month, failing which,
the existing one will be registered. Shylock off-handedly
tells the “ innocent ” to call round in a month s time to
re-sign and thus avoid registration. Of course, it is
thought that a calendar month is meant, and if a 31 days
month is struck it’s very likely that the borrower is a day
late Then—“ Too late J It’s registered 1 Why didn t
vou come in time ?” But, even if the borrower does come
in time he has only the usurer’s word that he won t regis-
ter. And a pretty guarantee that is. Again, if a bor-
rower does execute a series of bills for a past consideration
it is a moot legal point whether or not such a practice is
a contravention of the law.
* * * •
Bourke, N.S.W. (Afghan), Carrying Co. was de-
fendant in still another wages case t’other day, and, as
usual, won it. Plaintiff had signed the usual awful £3-a-
month agreement, but swore he believed he was signing
some sort of a pass to go over the country. These drivers
are either most remarkable fools or liars —it would be
interesting to know for certain which.
At Townsville (N.Q.) Presbyterian church the
takings of the previous Sunday are posted inside the door
in large block figures so as to give the_ congregation an
idea of their aggregate donations. This financial baro-
meter is more effective as a reminder than the Scotch
money-sermons sometimes inflicted on backsliding
audiences.


THERE’S A LONG LINE^^
OP
SYDNEY PEOPLE
XJSI3XTG
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
B
\V!
»
What They Say;
AND
Why They Use Them.
The report we publish to-day is
from Mr. E. Hanson, of 41 Rosser-
street, Balmain, Sydney. No better
evidence can be had as to the merits
of a medicine than the evidence of
one’s friends and neighbors, such as
this:—
Just one word of caution here.
The merit and success of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills have caused
them to be imitated in a most un-
scrupulous way. These imitators
imitate the name, and they imitate
the package just as closely as they
dare. But the one thing they can’t
imitate is the strong endorsements
of Sydney people. Every action of
an imitator is shady and suspicious.
For instance, instead of telling what
Sydney people say about his medi-
cine, he tells what someone in a
far-away, obscure town says. Will
the intelligent reader compare such
statements with the open, straight-
forward statements of Sydney peo-
ple about Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pill’s ?
But you will never be imposed on
if you will remember that the full
name is Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, and if your chemist or druggist
cannot supply you, send 2/9 for a
single box, or 15/3 for six boxes, to
the Proprietors, Foster - McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney, and the
medicine will be sent you at once,
post free.
One word more as to why Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills are so effective
in curing disease.
Because they purge the kidneys
and bladder of disease-breeding im-
purities. When the kidneys go wrong
they become clogged with impurities,
and these impurities go all through
the body, and cause all manner of
disease.
They cause you headaches, back-
aches, rheumatism, neuralgia, dizzi-
ness, bad heart, all tired-out feelings,
dropsy, general dullness of the mind,
and run-down condition.
These and a thousand more troubles
are caused by defective kidney action,
and are curable only through the kid-
neys. And Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are the most successful medicine
: n the world to-day, because they go
straight to the root of the disease—
the kidneys—and heal them.
Mr. E. Hansen says:
‘‘For years I had a backache,
which made me helpless and a burden
to myself. I also had my right arm
useless, and could not do any work.
I had to use my left arm to feed my-
self, being unable to lift a teacup to
my lips with my right arm. I say
nothing of the agony I was in ; but
only of the fact that I was unable to
earn my own living. I tried a lot of
medicines, and went to doctors and
hospitals. I would get a slight relief,
and then I’d get bad again for a moral
certainty. I took fourteen boxes of
one largely-advertised remedy alone,
and thought it had cured me twice;
but when I started work one
day’s labour made me as bad
as I had been before. There
are hundreds in Balmain who know
of my case, and any of them will
tell you what Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills have done for me. I got a
box more than twelve months ago,
and when I had taken half a box of
these wonderful pills I felt so well
that I thought I could start work.
But, knowing how I had been treated
by other remedies, I finished the box
to make sure, and then I began
work, and have worked ever since.
My right arm is as strong and as well
as my left, and all the pains have
gone. I have not taken a pill since,
because I’ve not needed one. They
acted in a most magical way, as the
men in the Dock will tell you.
Through hearing of my case others
have used Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, and have been cured likewise.”
And the following cases are all from
Sydney people, and are similar in
many respects to the above :
Mr. Martin Nicholas, 16 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney; Mr. J. J. Schuh, 773
George-street, Sydney ; William
Greenland, Printer, 22 Forsyth-
street, Glebe; Mrs. M. Mullins, 49
Hunter-street; Wm. Carroll, ex-
Railway Guard, 749 Harris-street,
Ultimo; Mr. Will. James, Tobacco-
nist, Manly; Mark Tierney, Yanman,
118 Bridge-road, Glebe ; Robt. Ryan,
309 Sussex-street, Sydney; F. Flor-
ance, 208 Alfred-street, North Syd-
ney; Jos. Grieve, Wood and Coal
Merchant, 18 Albion-street, Surry
Hills; Mrs. Wright, 6 Red Lion-
street, Balmain.
ITCHINESS OF THE SKIN.
Ever had any Irritation of the Skin?
There are many forms of it, and any of them
bad enough to tax your patience. Hemorrhoid, a
plague of the night: no rest for the sufferers from
that complaint. Eczema, too ; hives don’t sound
dangerous, but they cause much misery to those
unfortunate enough to be troubled with them.
Doan’s Ointment is “a wonder” for any such
trouble. Any troublesome irritation of the skin
can’t resist its healing, soothing influence. Lots
of Sydney people know this now.
Mrs. M. A. Carter, “ Waratah,” Orange-street,
Eaudwick, Sydney, writes a most enthusiastic
letter as to how her younsr daughter, aged 10
years, was cured of Eczema by Doan’s Ointment.
Mrs. Carter thought her daughter contracted the
disease at school. It affected her scalp, which
was terribly inflamed, and all broken out, and
irritated her terribly. She procured some of
Doan’s Ointment at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-
street, and, after thoroughly washing the child’s
scalp, applied it. The result was the scalp en-
tirely healed in a few days, and left no scar, much
to their joy.
“ I have also used the ointment myself for irri-
tation of the skin —a sort of Eczema—-and it has
done me equally as much good as it did m'y
daughter. You are at liberty to publish these
facts at any time, and I will only be too pleased
to verify the statements should I be called upon
to do so.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all Diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Insect Bites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very effec-
tive. Very frequently two or three boxes have
made a complete cure of chronic cases that have
not yielded to other remedies for years.
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, by sending us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles
Eczema, or any form of Itchiness of the Skin, for
one moment. Doan’s Ointment will cure them
absolutely, but do not take our word for it; send
a penny stamp for a sample box. The large size
box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.).
If you cannot obtain it locally from your chemist
or storekeeper, same will be posted on receipt
of price by the proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co.,
70 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention The
Bulletin.
Oceans of Fizz.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.
Oceans of fizz with leaping bubbles of gas,
Fierce fusillade of oorks, opposed politicians hail-
ing the flag with unanimous cheers for
libertad,
Let us be drunk, comrades.
Let’s chalk our hats with the words one Nation,
one Destiny,
Let us march in the street where the drum is
thumping and rousing an animal down in the
jungle of passion ;
Let us grin, shout, gibber, pant, sweat, drivel,
and drink :
Let us bray the Imperial bray.
Let us call ourselves patriots.
11.
Stop, you without clothes—where do you think
you are going ?
Shameless female, back to the well, crouch in the
mud at the bottom and cover your nakedness;
Why do you point to your hand-glass ?
Unpatriotic, perfidious, horrible creature,
This is no place for you or your unpleasant sug-
gestions.
Put down your glass, I tell you -smash, break,
shatter, or otherwise destroy it;
I can’t help seeing the shadows.
111.
I see a vast grey land with a broken and irregular
fringe of dusky green ;
I see Tasmania, Queensland, Victoria, New South
Wales, South Australia, and Westralia.
(And I have no doubt that Tasmania comes first
because she’s the best,
Because her climate is decent, and her resources
give some sort of promise of permanency,
And when she has killed her landlords she’ll have
a chance of prosperity.)
I see a number of capital cities containing a third
of the entire population,
And what’s the reason of that, camerado, I
wonder ?
I see crops of wheat that are not so good as those
in other parts of the globe,
And I notice that after-a while the soil is ex-
hausted.
(Camerado, let us be drunk.)
I see diminishing flocks in a dusty denuded wil-
derness ;
(And are we not patriotic, are we not great,
camerado ?)
Away, undesirable woman !
IV.
We raise the trumpet and blow !
Are we not great in Sport, and have we not Saved
the Empire !
But who are these blithering fools that hustle us?
Who are these lank, excitable loafers, lacking in
foresight, stability, principle,
Showing signs of physical degeneration and rever-
sion,
Many of them ignorant, dirty and brutal, waving
photographs of themselves and calling them
Boers —
Who are these boastful, light-headed, weather-
vane roosters ?
What are those whispers among them ?
Did you not hear a word of a falling birth-rate,
Did you not hear that certain diseases are spread-
ing, and eating, and gloating?
They say that the number of lunatics swells from
season to season—
Fools, do they think we believe it? Is there room
for disease of the brain ?
Look at the kings-among-men that we choose as
our representatives, look at their morals and
intellect;
They are our justification !
V.
Let us be drunk, patriotic, and loud, camerado !
We are the salt of the earth,
America ain’t in the running,
One People, one Destiny —Commonwealth -glori-
ous future—and all the nations admiring—
Bother the woman, she’s back ; drown her in
oceans of fizz.
N.S.W.
B.
What Hogan Wanted.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tipley was editor and part-proprietor of the
Beetle, a small weekly paper with the very best
intentions and a defective circulation. The
mission of the Beetle was to secure the salvation
of human-kind by the moral and material eleva-
tion of the working classes, but humanity refused
salvation at the price. So the Beetle office was
the haunt of the common or dull-brown bailiff,
and the literary and artistic proprietors engaged
in an everlasting struggle with adversity, and
in many weekly conflicts with the landlord
studied the art which brought about the downfall
of Ananias. For the landlord was a coarse and
sceptical person with the artistic perceptivities
of a horse-knacker, and assurances that the paper
was doing a great and good work in morally up-
lifting the community moved him not. The
saving of 10 souls was less to him than 10s. on
account.
But prosperity was always delayed, and the
Beetle’s pay-day continued to be the last Friday
in next month. Tipley tried hard to attract public
attention to his journal by jaded attempts to im-
prove the morals of slum landlords. But he made
little progress. He wrote up the slums in a
patient way, and frequented dark and dirty lanes,
criminal cribs, Chinese shops, opium-dens, and
other haunts of vice in many disguises, seek-
ing attractive material, and one result—almost
the only one —was the pleasure of meeting
“Basher” Hogan.
Gotten-up to look like a bookmaker’s understudy
in adversity, Tipley, with the assistance of a
fizgig lent him by a friendly detective, contrived
to make his way into a pernicious den run by
one Kim Sit. It was nominally a gambling-hell,
but with many subsidiary hells" in special apart-
ments. Tipley found himself in a smoky atmos-
phere in a large room, in one corner whereof a
two-up school was blaspheming fiendishly over its
coppers, whilst in another about twenty haggard
Chows with dough-colored faces gambled at along
table in perfect silence. The European recklessly
explodes the delirious intensity of his vice in yells,
curses and blows ; the Asiatic consumes his own
smoke, so to speak. There were one or two small
groups card-playing and drinking, and a few scat-
tered individuals, one of whom slept in a corner,
walked upon, kicked and cursed by the outer
fringe of the excited larrikins and slum-sweepings
pressing round the “kip.”
A fight broke out shortly after the editor’s
entrance; the Europeans rushed it, and in the
resulting confusion and excitement Tipley forgot
his apprehensions and mingled with the crowd.
The Chinamen at the table did not bestow a glance
upon the combatants, they were alive to nothing
but the swift movements on the board before
them. The fight ended in a knock-out after two
rounds, the victim was dragged into a corner and
liberally dosed with beer, and the various groups
resumed their games. And just about this time
the journalist became uncomfortably aware that
he was being watched.
The watcher was the most villainous-looking
watcher in the villainous crowd. He was a
shaggy giant of about six-foot-two, who looked as
if he had recently abandoned respectability as a
coal-lumper to become the cerberus at a tank
lodging-house by the water-side. A shocking
type, loose-jowled, pig-eyed, prognathous, was
the man who had his eye on Tipley. Tipley
labelled him “ murderous” at first sight, and the
feeling that he had awakened some suspicion in
the mind of the ruffian enveloped him like a
garment.
Once the big man slouched up against him and
suggested a game of euchre, calling him “matey,”
but Tipley stammered something and fled, seek-
ing refuge behind the Chinese table. He heard
his enemy called “Basher” Hogan, and that did
not serve to reassure him. “ Basher” isn’t a re-
assuring name. Half-a-dozen times he discovered
“ Basher” lurking in the shadows, with his little
eyes fixed upon him, and, although this terrified
the editor, there was yet a visible diffidence on
the face of Hogan that puzzled him too.
At this point Tipley conceived an idea that
sent a chill through his heart.
“He thinks I’m a detective in disguise,” he
murmured. “Yes, that’s it. He’s a murderer or
something of the kind, and he reckons I’m after
him. He means to do for me ! ”
This settled Tipley. He edged towards the
door, reached it, and slipped out. There was a
long, dark passage beyond, and before reaching
the exit door the editor heard heavy footsteps
following. He shut the door behind him, and fled
down the sloppy lane, but had not gone 20 yards
when the slamming of the door and the sound of
pursuing feet made his hair rise up like a
steeple. Tipley kept to the left of the lane, his
pursuer to the right. The hunted editor reached
Little Bourke-street in safety, but the hour was
late and there was not a soul in sight. As he
walked hard up the street, the footsteps still fol-
lowed. Across the road a lamp burned dimly at
the corner of a lane. That lane led into Bourke-
street and safety. Tipley abandoned all subter-
fuge, and, taking to his heels, ran for the lane and
for life, but his enemy was too quick for him, and
“ Basher” Hogan’s large, dirty hand arrested the
journalist under the lamp.
“ ’Ere—’old ’ard ! ” he said.
“What the devil do you want with me?”
gasped Tipley, assuming all the ferocity of which
he was capable.
Basher ” did not answer, but plunged his hand
into his breast-pocket. Tipley knew he was feel-
ing for a weapon, and he would have made Mel-
bourne and the surrounding electorates ring with
a yell for the police only his mouth was too dry.
Then “ Basher” drew out a sheet of paper.
“ You’re the editor o’ the Beetle, ain’t yer?”
he said, with a certain awkward bashfulness. “ I
seen yer goin’ inter the office a good many times,
but didn’t like ter speak. Well, I’m a bit of a
poet meself—see ; an’ I’ve writ here a little pome
bout my mother wot I’d like ter read ter yer, if
yer don’t mind.”
SILAS SNELL.
It is understood that M.L. Postmaster
Ward now real isos the absurdity of the proposed
penny stamp “emblematic of Maoriland con-
ferring the benefit of penny postage on the civilised
world,” and that the million stamps now under
way from ‘Ome will not be issued. Amount of
Poynter, R.A.’s, bill for the design, and the print-
ing-bill, not stated.
“ His Excellency the butler” :
When Governor Hampden was reigning over N.S.W.
he had a butler who was the double of the then
Admiral on the Australian station—Cyprian Bridge.
This butler was a favorite with the men of the R.A.A.
who had to take guard at Govt. House, for when any-
thing festive was going he saw that the guard came in for
a little of it. It was his habit, when going out in the
evening, to carry a flask of good whisky in his breast-
pocket for the special delectation of his soldier friends.
It would be “ Good night, sir,” as the butler approached.
“Cold to-night, sir.” “Er-yes; it is cold, sentry.
Here, will you have a nip ? ” The sentry invariably would.
One cold evening the sentry was a “rooky” (recruit)
who had been told exactly what to do when he saw a
stout, benevolent-looking gentleman coming down the
drive about 9 o’clock ; it would be the Governor’s butler
going for his evening stroll, and it would be “ all right.”
Sure enough about nine a portly gentleman, muffled up
in a big coat, came down the drive. The sentry
laid aside his rifle, banged his cold hands together,
nodded familiarly as one who knew the good thing from
the jump, and said, “ Good-night, sir ; bitter night, to-
night.” The portly man turned half round, growled
something inaudible, and was passing on when the sentry,
half-following him, added insinuatingly, “ A nip’d <>-o
well to-night, sir.” Another growl and the portly man
passed out of the gate. When the sentry was relieved he
complained that he had been “ had ” by his lark-loving
oomrad s, but th y swore not. He must have mistaken
the man. Not he ! He was sure of that. The descrip-
tion that had been given him was too clear. A few nights
later the same sentry was next for guard and was waiting
with another man in the guard-house, when, looking out
of the window, he saw the “ butler ” again coming down
the path. He watched what the sentry would do, and
was surprised to see that individual come to the “ general
salute” with a yell of “Guard, turn out!” The
“ butler ” was His Excellency Rear-Admiral Bridge.
Another of those interesting damsels whom
the law protects turned up at Carlton (Melb.)
Court t’other day. She wore long hair and short
skirts until an erstwhile stranger, a lad of 19,
took her to the theatre one evening, and invited
her to enter into life’s fullness with him all at
once, so to speak. It was a trifle sudden, but the
10-year damsel rose to the occasion, put up her
hair, bought some long dresses, and started
housekeeping with the boy. They enjoyed un-
wedded bliss for just ten days, when the Law
stepped ip, and sent her back to service, and her
boy to take his trial.


The Father of Wellington
■eight Years of Age; Cured of Rheumatism
One Bottle .Made the Cure..
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
k:
7
Mr. John Plimmer, of Wellington, New'Zealand, sends us his photograph,
from which the above illustration was made, lie is known as the “Father of
Wellington.” He is eighty-eight years of age and one of the best-known residents
of the city. His letter, which we give below, was written in a strong, clear, bold
hand. He says :
from
the trouble since, i always keep a bottle of it in tlie house, for I find it a very refreshing remedy
for many conditions.”
After reading this letter you are certainly not surprised that in all parts of
the civilized world people call Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
This great remedy takes! out all poisons from the system and makes the
blood pure and rich. You cannot have rheumatism, scrofula, boils, pimples,
nervous exhaustion, and general debility if you will use Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
During the trying hot summers a few doses of it will rest and refresh you.
It is a wonderful medicine for weak and delicate children, too ; it gives them all
the strength and vigor that belong to youth.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Restores the Sick to Health.
AYER’S PILLS are the best liver pills you can buy.
WR-SEH
Pfi/truMt
h
WOTMET9
SINGERS & SPEAKER 3
Sen-Sen &
RVNGDOHAVttiUE\
EONDON.
cK e
fer
ĥ
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
BEECH AM’S
PILLS
Cure Bilious and Nervous Disorders,
Constipation, Sick Headache,
Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
And all Stomachic Troubles.
BEECH AM’S PILLS
Bemove Wind and Pains in the Stomach,
Arouse Sluggish and Torpid Livers,
Ensure Proper Assimilation of Eood,
Strengthen the Stomach.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Make You Look Well, Eeel Well, and Keep Well,
Bemove Pimples and Blotches on the Skin,
Lay the Eoundation of Good Health,
Suitable for Old and Young.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Purify the Blood and Bemove Scurvy,
Are Mild but Effective in their Action,
Bemove the Besult of Over-Indulgence,
Cure Bestlessness and Insomnia.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Are Specially Suitable for the
Diseases and Ailments common to Eemales,
Improve the Complexion,
Increase in Popularity.
ieecham’s Pills have stood the test of over 50 years
without the publication of testimonials. They recom-
mend themselves. In Boxes, Is. I]td. (50 Pills and 2s. 9d. each, with full directions.
“STEELE RUDD’S" BOOK-
“OH OUR SELECTIOH.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
tyAORILAMP : ai>d Other Verses.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Best Book of Verses Maoriland has produced. Price, Pive Shillings (post free).
V ' .
“THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., LTD., 214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agents r Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane.
'V.Jbst-iEi*
The Universal Remedy for Acidity oi ti e Stoicacn,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections,
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
iDINNEFORDi
MAGNESIA
ħ
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
A Marvellous Medicine
Relief it) fiveminutes
BONNINCTONS
IRISH MOSS.
For Wasting diseases
INFLU ENZA,COUGHS,COLDS, BRONCHITIS
• As K for Bonninqton’s.


HOSE. V
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
Perdriau’s
fin. x 3 PLY RUBBER.
0 GARDEN, 50 FEET COILS, for 20s.
B GARDEN, 60 FEET COILS, for 30s.
B DELIVERY, 60 FEET COILS, for
45s
SUP. DELIVERY, 60 FEET COILS,
for 50s.
fin. Cotton Covered.
MEDIUM EUREKA, 50 FEET COILS,
for 20s.
SUPERIOR EUREKA, 50 FEET
COILS, for 22s 6d.
Hose
Hose
Hose
Hose
IRDRIAU & CO.,
2*70 George St.,
Sydney.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE WORTHINGTON
WORTHINGTON COM
. ..IS THE ORIGINAL. .• -
DUPLEX PUMP.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence
N.S.W.
TANGYES’
DUPLEX
PUMPS
Are the Latest and Best.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED . .
Sole Representatives in Australia:
gennieJeare&Co.
Mining and Engineering
Furnishers.
STOCKS CARRIED IN--*’
Sydney
MELBOURNE
PERTH “»
COOL6ARPIE.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOB THE S.ADIES.
W- O- ELDBIDGE & GO..
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOllli HTKEKl’, SlTDNISliT
(0pp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post /rom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
h
George and
Market-Sts.
ĥ
Board or Apartments at Option
ħ
OIXTB TBCOUSAKTI) PEOPLE ....
died from Consumption in Sydney last year, and this dire disease is spreading day by day. And no wonder. If citizens are so careless about their supply of Milk, the wonder is that there
are not more deaths. There will be ! !
KCERE’S A. SHOUT STORY.
A milk supplier to Sydney had three cows suffering from Tuberculosis, and as he was afraid his healthy cattle would become contaminated, he sold them at less than £1 each to another
supplier who sent his milk to the same distributors. The seller now feels annoyed to think that the Sydney purchaser had been paying for all the milk from the diseased animals for some
months past. THIS MILK IS BEING SOLD IN SYDNEY TO-DAY ! This is no fairy tale, but an absolute fact, capable of being easily proven. This is only an individual case;
there are many, alas! too many of a similar nature.
INSRECTIOKT OE DAIRIES .A-UNTO CATTLE ....
The N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Coy., Ltd., have every cow in every dairy thoroughly inspected, as -well as the premises and utensils used. They have their own railway trucks. All milk
arriving under standard quality is condemned. They laugh at local inspection. They lose suppliers because of their strict methods of inspection.
The Company sells milk in bulk or in bottle that is PASTEURISED. If delicate people use other milk, they may meet a premature death. Use only the milk supplied by the
F.F. & I. Coy., and they will get healthy and strong. Strong robust people will grow the stronger. If, after this NOTE OF WARNING, you continue to use milk from cows suffering
from Tuberculosis—or, in plain words, Consumption—you deserve to die, for the fault rests with yourself.
The F.F. and I. Coy., Ltd., is the only Company who has an Inspector in its regular employ. If you want to rear a healthy family, deal ONLY with us; but if you want to rear
weaklings, or be weak, then Don’t.
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD
mui i
COY., Ltd,
H. Pateson,
Manager.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
h
60
Knowles Steam Pumps, Tngersoll Bock Drills and Air Compressors,
Nagle Horizontal and Vertical Engines and Boilers, Pennsylvania
Beturri Tubular Boilers, Buffalo Blowers and Exhaust Fans, Morris
Dredging Pumps, Bullock Diamond Drills, Dodge Bock Breakers,
Boger Bolls, Gates’ Bock Breakers, Challenge Ore Feeders, Hunting-
ton Quartz Mills, Wood and Iron Working, and Laundry Machinery,
and Mine and Mill Supplies.
ĥ
m m
“DUPLEX”
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATE'S given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
+ SONS
[JMITEP
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
ħ
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
■
.0)
Of 111
LIJ -J
£2
00.
Q.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag ©r Square).
BLACKIN G. < VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE,: WTHYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
SEN 11 FO It A
BOOK CATALOGUE
RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Pos* Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
YORK HOTEL,
ADELAIDE. '
B. B. ROENNFEUDT,
