

o
<
Ph
H
m
o
P 3
M
>*
M
GO
M
W
o
HH
5
Cb
H
<1
CQ
<3
Absolutelv
Pure,
therefore
h
“The Standard
of
highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
10*7 Kent
Minina and
Street,
' , ' . , —FOR—
Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill
Sydney,
Machinery,
Mining
Requisites,
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
1
Machinery
VERTICAL and HORIZONTAL BAND MILLS HOLD THE WORLD’S RECORD.
a ..fn,
m
, ■
85 Pitt St., SYDNEY
The Most Up-to-Date Machines for
all Purposes.
Bend for Prices and Particulars,
JjJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLK’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite,S
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
ORNFS
A 1 WHISKY.
SANDEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
ĥ
A
A
1
Sa.
PlCi
iM
?£ s:
HOBART,
— zm. —
lidley’s Orient (jotel.
TOUR WATCH
WOI’T GO?_—^
Why not lay it aside and invest in a new one? Right
here we introduce to your notice one of our
FAMOUS SILVER KEYLESS LEVERS,
tiie cases of which are solid silver. The movement is
of the best quality, and manufactured specially for
rough handling. The balance staff pivots rotate in
the best-quality jewels, and the balance itself is com- 1
pensated. This ensures the watch keeping
Accurate and Reliable Time.
On receipt of the sum of £2 we shall be pleased to
Forward this Watch on Approval,
and if you are dissatisfied with the value we will
return your money. Remember that this watch is
guaranteed 6 years. Thus you can have
Reliable Time for a Penny a Week.
The watch will be forwarded, securely packed and
postaggjtee, to any part of the Australian colonies
on receipt of £2.
n S Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
U* vl> Bis Vi fl "“j 684 George Street, Sydnhy.
to
AMUSEMENT fSr OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siaiitese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondike Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Pish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
XH. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
X
PIONEER
ħ
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWICT& SOM, LTD.,
H'y York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
i»RIOB Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
/r~
How Do! May I send you
my
j Extra Special ,
Book Catalogue ?
WILD ANDRADE,
201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
h
HIGHLAND
CREAM
ĥ
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and 00., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. .
thue o-:r:e].a.t . . .
CASCADE ALE
.> IS IEYIEIRIE] TO STAY. ’
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
BY ROYAL WARRANT.
Joshua’s BOOMERANG BRANDY
JOSHUA BROS, have been authorised to
SUPPLY BOQgVgRRANG BRANDY
to the Cellars of H.M. the Queen, the Prince of Wales, and the Duke of York.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st.,.South. Melbourne,
Telephone No. 1013. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balis
Catered tor
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
ħ
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
PHOTOS
IFrom Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and 5
Line; Carefully Selected Assortments, <
Oabmets or Stereos, with Illustrated <
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s. S
Money Order or Cheque. ? |
ENGLISH', FRENCH, GERMAN
and SPANISH RARE BOOKS.
R. GENNERT,
89e FAUBOURG ST., MARTIN, PARIS, FRANCE.
“The Last of Six”: .
Tales of the Austral Tropics. Br
Ernest Fa veno. Paper covers, 141 nn * fid
post free. *
The Bulletin
VoJ 21. —No. 1081. j
[Saturday, November 3, IUOQ.
at tba General Office for Twmnrafron W TW oft a Tn wc*>^r>ar.


■ Now -Rea'i», .
Two Hew “ Bulletin " Books.
No. II of The Bulletin Booklets,
A ROSE OF RE6RET.
Vebses by James Hebblethwaitb.
CONTENTS :
Prefatory Verses.
Home.
A Night-Watch.
Provence.
Old Catalogues.
Love in the Ruins.
Ulysses.
One Memory.
Perdita.
The Sirens.
The Symbol.
Strolling Players.
The Quiet Life.
Passing.
Longing.
Old Authors.
The Children’s Minuet.
Lament.
Dead Island.
Rejected.
Dream-Echo.
Life.
France.
The F orest. .
The Silver Falls.
Wanderers.
Spring.
■flie Quest.
Note. —This book containsall the best stories
which Dorrington has contributed to 2he Bulletin,
and several unpublished tales of equal or greater
interest.
In Envelope ; price, Is. 9d. post-free. '
Note.— Only 500 copies are printed for sale.
No. lof these booklets is out of print. To be
included in the same series are Louise Mack’s and
Hubert Church’s verses, and others.
Also Ready,
Castro’s Last Sacrament
and Other Stories.
By ALBERT DORRINGTON 1
(“ Alba Dorion”).
A handsome volume of JoO panes, bound in
cloth, decorated ; price 4*. (Jd. post-free.
m
CONTENTS:
Castro’s Last Sacrament.
A Bush Tanqukray.
La Revanche.
The Mother of an Invention.
A Bush Singer.
Red Rafferty's Son.
The Sign of the Cross.
Silhouettes
THE QUEEN OF CLUBS.
A STUIIY IN COMPETITION.
GOLIATH.
THE SECOND SATIRE.
The Return.
Smoke-Ho !
The Curing of .Little Jan Tromp.
A Bund Man’s Holiday.
The Ring of the 'Domain.
The Hunchback’s Syllogism.
The Sneeze.
Cardigan.
The Coward.
In the Grip of the Martyr.
Quilt.
Send P. 0.0., postal notes, or stamps of any
Australasian province to
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney, Australia.
Sole Wholesale Agents, Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd.
For the LUMGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
I). The TiUcuba or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
.. . Contain NO rovainr or other poisonous dray ... °
SOLO BY ALL CHEMISTS, In Tins, 1s Cd; from the Proprietor, (1. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland—post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 anil 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE RED PAGE.
Albert Dorrington, whose book (“Castro’s Last
Sacrament, and Other Stories ”) is published this
week, is well-known to readers of The Bulletin as
“ Alba Dorion.” He avows himself an Australian
by adoption ; but his birthplace was Stratford-on-
Avon, and his birthtime 29 years ago. There is a
family legend that a gipsy astrologer foretold the
advent of Shakespeare Secundus, who would write
tragedies with a pen in one hand and a pie in the
other; but the only tragedy Dorrington tried to
write was his own, and he didn’t succeed. The
education of this Shakespeare manqu4 was con-
ducted partly by the masters of King Edward’s
School, Birmingham, partly by a Brum prize-
fighter named Bosh —honoured in small capitals
as the Larry Foley (and more) of his epoch; and
the mixture of lessons resulted in a Shakespearian
pirate drifting to Australia at the age of sixteen.
He carried a heavy purse, which vanished
in three weeks on the unseen wings of a
sharper’s ace. The pirate faced the situation
and became a canvasser. He canvassed back
to the Barrier, up to Bourke, through Queensland,
and into nameless places, where Gehenna lay be-
tween tank and tank. He laid snares for the cash
of the lonely Chinaman in N.S.W. ranges, the
affluent, paid-off Kanaka of the Isis scrub, and
the thrifty German settlers round Tanunda and
Kapunda. He sold millinery to Afghan camel
drivers, cameras to the Jap shelters of the Straits,
and camped in the Jardine country with the gay
aboriginal who comes back for a coupon when he
has stolen your clothes. In between there were dis-
appearances to Egypt, England, and outlandish
places; but to Australia he always returned. At
present lie lives in Sydney, having seen more of
this country, and lived closer to its earth, than
ninety-nine in a hundred men born here. He has
the experience-equipment of a dozen story-tellers,
and the brains of one—a good one. And his
advice, humbly offered to young Australian writers,
is : Smell the East and West and North, and
you ’ll come back with a better notion of the
South.
—♦
James Hebbleth waite, whose booklet of verses,
“A Rose of Regret,” is also braving the fierce
light that beats upon a bookseller’s counter, is
perhaps the first Tasmanian to find poetic pro-
minence—and he is an Englishman, born at Pres-
ton in 1857. His youth came under dominion of
an old library in a green bird-haunted square;
and the lofty timbered roof, the huge stone fire-
place with its winter glow upon long dark
Georgian portraits, the time-stained books rich in
engravings of a quaint and vanished England,—
these were among the sources of his life. He
entered with a scholarship St. John’s College,
Battersea, London; and remained two years
(1877-8), spending his holidays on the Thames, or
4ji Westminster Abbey, or in rambles after Lamb
'and Dickens through the never-ending streets.
For twelve years thereafter he was teaching, and
lie lectured on English literature at the Harris
Institute, Pre3ton. Later he came to Tasmania,
and after employment at schools in Hobart
entered the Congregational ministry. He is now
principal of Queen's College, Latrobe, Tas. A
booklet of his verses, published in 189 G by The
Hobart Mercury, is basis of the collection now
issued by The Bulletin.
Simpson Newland, author of “ Blood Tracks of
the Bush ” (Gay and Bird, 1900), is also author of
“ Paving the Way,” another bush romance—and
somebody lias told him to make his title wilder for
sake of sale. His work remains tame. He has a
fund of Australian experience, admirable energy,
but not the literary brain. He cannot make his
words live. The medical profession knows that
your fine, large, high-stepping woman is often a
poor mother of children : she is fitted to hold, but
not to transmit vitality. On the other hand, you
will often find the mother of fourteen or sixteen
stalwart sons and daughters in a thin little rat of
a creature who looks as if a puff would blow her
away : she is a tough aboriginal built to bestow
life and die after cooking the dinner at eighty.
The same in literature. It is not energy, but
specialised energy, which makes a book. “Paving
the Way ”is advertised in a seventh edition; but it
is the “ founded-on-fact’ interest which has sold it.
Simpson Newland’s imagination flares from a
dramatic episode of life; but when he writes it
down the episode warms, not because of what he
has written, but almost despite. And he
lacks the rare architectonic faculty: his books are
welded scraps crying for the furnace and the
mould. T. A. Browne is at the head of the local
fact-romancers because he has more skill to weave
a coherent plot, subordinating his details to the
whole; though at his best his art falls far short of
Marcus Clarke’s, and at its worst it is no better
than nephew William S. Walker’s, another
energetic producer of excellent material-for-litera-
ture who is just now pounding away, pounding
away. Every one of these men who know and
can’t write should be pen-married to a man who
doesn’t know but can write. Then we should
have progeny worth buying type-clothes and ink-
boots for.
+
The twenty-seventh chapter of J. M. Barrie’s
“Tommy and Grizel” saunters through Sept.
Scribner's at a charming gait: it wants strength,
blood —yea, ber-lud —
The blood of the bullock that falls down and dies with
a thud.
Even in the dramatic moment when hidden
Grizel listens to Tommy wooing the Strange
Woman in the arbour, and breathes hard, and is
discovered, there is no intensity, nothing to melt
your teeth and freeze your ears as should be in
the tropic-arctic pendulum-swing of emotion.
Barrie has found his situation (anybody’s old
situation) and lost the wages. Only his wooing is
enthralling—
Alice, I love you, for you are love itself ; it is you I
nave been chasing since first it rose like a bird at my feet,
I never had a passing fancy for any other woman ; I
always knew that somewhere in the world there must be
you and some time this starless night and you for me.
You were hidden behind walls of ice ; no man had passed
them ; I broke them down and love leapt to love, and \ ou
lie here, my beautiful love, in the arms of its lover.
“Its”? Balance the “your,” and decide if
Barrie chose bettor. I say not : to preserve the
figure he lost the personal appeal, and he intruded
a warning hiss where the fascinating voweliquid
might have snaked the bird.
The preliminary play lias been interesting:
Tommy does not love the Strange Woman, but
she piques him, tantalises him, and he burns to
lower that defiant flag. One sign of surrender,
and he will give up the siege . . . and is carried
off on the blood-current. (John Reay Watson holds
the psychology less daintily, more firmly, in an
unpublished story.) And the Strange Woman,
never yielding, yields—a in lieu
of the ancient peripheral obsession, the reacting
cerebral stimulus unnoticed by Meredith in
“Modern Love”—she too knowing that she can
refrain. But Tommy flutes on—
What does the world look like to you, my darling?
You are in it for the first time. You were born but a
moment ago. It is dark, that you may not be blinded
before you have used your eyes. These are your eyes,
dear eyes that do not yet know their purpose ; they are
for looking at me, little Alice, and mine are for looking
into yours. I cannot see you. I have never seen the.
face of my love—oh, my love, come into the light that I
may see y r our face.
The Strange Woman had no wild humour to think
of the blind kittens boy Tommy had drowned :
woman’s lack of humour is the salvation of her
lovers. “ Her head had fallen on his shoulder ”
“and then the Other Woman comes,” and
Barrie’s porcelain art shivers. “ His face was
terrible,” says Barrie, giving Tommy away like a
stage villain with a pound of grease-paint. “(To
be continued.) ”
“ Never the time and the place and the loved
one all together.” What is an ideal all-together ?
Half-a-guinea will be paid for the best plan and
specification of the trio—in not more than 200
words sent before Dec. 1. Mem.— This must
be taken seriously, passionately, devoutly, in
choice words almost worthy of the ideal. P.S.—
No blushes, unless behind the fan.
+
“ I see the Corelli has been churched for another
novel—monstrum horrendum.”—“ls it fifteenth
or fiftieth ? How her pen must writhe to strangle
the brood ! ” —“ He’s not father—they ’re a Pan-
brood misbegotten. And Time hath a wallet.”—
“ No, Sir ; Time s a nice clean old man, as the
ladies call Dan . Besides, my own
works arc going in that wallet, and they would n’t
associate.”—“Well, throw hers into" Lethe.”—
“And pollute the infernal water supply ! No,
thank you.”—“ Hide them in Mahomet’s coffin.”
—“lt would never float again, and our river of
legends runs low.”—“ Bind in brass, and shrine in
Buckingham Palace.”—“ Sweets to the sweet—too
cloying!”—“There’s no pleasing you—you ’ll have
to let her slide.”—“Slid. Poor tawdry Audrey ! ”
Skipping-rope—
“ I will now read you,” said the Very Important Pre-
late-while a bland smile for the Faithful chased the left-
over remnants of controversial frown across his features—
“l will now read you a sonnet especially composed.for
this occasion by our distinguished brother in England,
Aubrey de Vere. I regret that it is a very short sonnet,
having only twelve—no, fourteen lines ; but possibly on
some future occasion he will favour us with a longer
one. . . ’’ w
The young M.L. writer, Thomas Macmahon’s, first long
story, “ Four Ounces to the Dish,” has been sold to a
London publisher.—An English edition of It rereton’s
“ Landlopers ” is promised, and the author is J. Plus
Gai.
“It isn’t had’’—said Stephen Crane, nearing
his end—“it isn’t bad when you come to the
hedge that we must all go over.' You feel sleepy
and—you don’t care. Just a little dreamy curio-
sity—which world you ’re really in—that’s all.”
The first number of The Monthly Review arrives
—presumably edited by Henry Newbolt as an-
nounced, though his name does not appear. His
poem praising Gordon of Khartoum does appear—
to no particularly poetic end. The best verse—
Yet there have been on earth
Spirits of starry birth,
Whose splendour rushed to no eternal setting :
They over all endure,
Their course through all is sure,
The dark world’s Tight is still of their begetting.
Though the long past forgotten lies,
Nile 1 in thy dream remember him
Whose like no more shall rise
Above our twilight s rim
Until the immortal dawn shall make all glories dim.
The opium reminiscences of the late Terence
Kelly, of Liverpool, cel. 52
I have no doubt that the taking of fifty to sixty grains
of opium daily for fifteen years has had - everything to do
with my present slate. To save trouble at the enquiry, I
may say 1 have gone so low at last that I have to commit
suicide. Some time since I tried halt'-an-ounce of lauda-
num, then one ounce, then one-eighth of an ounce of
opium itself, then a-quarter of an ounce, and, at last,
three-eighths of an ounce of opium—but all without
effect; and this time I intend to take half-an-ounce, or,
say, 220 grains, and that ought to finish me, when six or
eight grains are enough to kill an ordinary Christian.
I am sorry I have no better legacy to leave my chil-
dren, but as I went through life I had not the gift of
making money in quantities. I can understand why Lord
Clive, with all his advantages of wealth and station, com-
mitted suicide after using the drug for years, and I may
mention the operation of it. When an opium-eater starts
out on his career, each time he takes his daily dose in
about half an hour the action of the heart increases, and
that organ does double duty by sending the blood danc-
ing through the veins at double-quick pace. The opium-
eater feels a better man under its influence, and this
without the brain becoming cloudy, as with liquor. The
sensatfon is glorious, and in addition to the heart doing
double duty it is for all the world as though some in-
visible hand were wrapping a warm blanket round that
organ. No one can imagine the pleasure and strength—
mentally and physically—that the drug gives, but then
comes a time for punishment.
I must not forget the only important point about
opium, and that is this : During the fifteen years I took
it—or, say, from thirty to forty years of age—l found the
brain as well as the heart quickened in action. Now my
brain will not receive any impression, and it is quite soft,
and I have no more thinking faculty than a boy ten years
of age, and have forgotten almost all I ever knew. My
poor heart sometimes beats wild, as though it was going
to burst outright, and at other times stops, as though it
was going to beat no more. So, all things considered, if
anyone thinks of commencing to eat opium, my advice to
him is to leave it alone, or he will very likely come to
what I am myself, and then, perhaps, when he gets on in
life, he will have to elect between the workhouse and
committing suicide. For my part, I prefer the latter as
a choice.
Then the wooden jury delivered the unsound-
mind verdict.
Always, for ever mine! Her mother brow,
Even before her kisses, told me ; and her low,
Ravishing voice ; and those dear fluttering doves
She calls her eyes ; and all the tender loves
That hide in every dimple a shy vow.
Yet—and to-day ! —she doubts. This bird, this bough,
This song—will they endure if passion go?
Will it be summer in my lover’s groves
Always, for ever ?
Ah, if she only knew ! if she knew how
I yearn to hold her, make her happy, strow
Love-petals for tired feet: that never roves
My good thought from her, howe’er folly moves :
She would believe that I can love her now,
Always, for ever.
ci. G.H.T.
“ Peter K.’s” aftermath—mostly labels:
Psychology recognises two main forms of imagination :
(1) Reproductive Imagination or Memory; and (2) Pro.
ductive or Constructive Imagination. We are chiefly con-
cerned with the second of these.
Reproductive Imagination is wholly representative of
the past, and in this it differs from Perception, in which
the ideal element does not involve the reproduction of
any particular fact. In the Reproductive process the
images are mere copies of past ; but what is
commonly known as Imagination involves more th n this.
When we imagine an unrealised event of the future, or
when we imagine a place which is described to us, hut
which we have never seen, we are going beyond on'r actual
experience.' Images of memory are being in some way
modified, transformed, and recombined, and h.oiee this
process is marked off as Productive or Constructive imagi-
nation. It is the Productive process which is specially
referred to by the common term Imagination. While,
however, we thus mark off Productive Imagination as a
stage of psychological elaboration going bey ond reproduc-
tion, we can draw no sharp line ol demarcation between
the turn.
Productive or Constructive Imagination assumes various
forms. Thus we have Active and Passive Imagination,
Passive being that in which there is no conscious effort
(as in dreams), whilst Active is that which implies a con-
scious effort. Again, we have Receptive and Creative
Imagination. Receptive is illustrated in the realizations
of another’s ideal grouping,'as when we read a poem and
form a mental picture of the scenes and incidents des-
cribed. While this is a comparatively simple operation,
Creative Imagination, or Creative Productive Imagina-
tion (as distinguished from Receptive Productive Im
agination) is a much more difficult process, and as an
example we may take the imagination of (he poet who
first created the combination of words and sentences.
The act of construction here is of a much higher order,
involving more complex processes of reproduction, rejec-
tion, and selection, and directed solely by an internal
sense of what is beautiful and harmonious.
And there is another written page of labels,
which is thrown back to “Peter K.” without
much misgiving of loss.
■ ———♦ ■ ■
“F.S.D.” chats to the. The Bulletin from
Berlin, Sept. 14-
In Berlin, September is the month when the red
geraniums and the china : asters come out, and all the
host of theatres open, and Wagner and the Muses come
back to the Opera House. For these Spree “ Athenians ”
(as the Germans’dub the Berliners) are in their way ardent
lovers of the arts. On Sunday evenings the great melo-
dious bells of the new Gediichtniss Kirche boom out, or
the old belfry of the S. Nicolas kirk calls sweetly, and
everybody' thinks “Mein Gott! how the afternoon’s
slipped away. It’s time we were getting ready to start
for the theatre,”—and fraus and fraxUeim are soon all
agog for the play. There’s Mozart’s “ Don Juan ” at the
Opera, and “ Hamlet ” at the Royal, ail'd Hauptmann
at the Deutsches Theatre* Ibsen’s “ Comedy of Love ” at
the Secession, and Anzengruber at the Berliner—and so
on. And, above all, there’s Eleonora Duse and her com-
pany at the Lessing. All the dressing-rooms are full of
beautiful-winged perfumed creatures disrobing, the buzz
and hurry and bustle of anticipation, the last touches to
hair and cheeks before the smug servile mirrors, till
the whole bevy of them—their arms and bosoms and
diamonds and silks—are ushered into place be-
neath the unsparing electric-light. Aristocratic German
mammas and their fair-haired daughters hump and mingle
with the rouml-nos-d scions of Abraham—Jew and Gen-
tile, Czech and Teuton, tumbled together as in the sheet
let down from Heaven (Acts, x, 11): Oh, to forget them
all! Oh, that there were some dimness or mystery about
an audience before a play starts—something of that
cathedral twilight which should hallow art as well as
religion—and tiie theatre a great mystic! pillared temple
of Art!
It is a new piece of D’Annunzio’s the Duse is playing—
for the first time to-night— (7m Sogno d’un Maltino di
Primavera—A Spring Morning’s Dream. Whit an
actress! Italian finely spoken inebriates like a Southern
vintage. But, ahiimS ! what trash is this drama, what a
disillusion. As for Duse herself, she reminds me of
Novelli by her simplicity, an uorress in the grand style.
There is a fragrance, a languor, a fire and diablerie, a
pathos, a will-o’-the-wisp loveliness about this woman, a
rich swift movement and fine finish of tone and gesture
and feeling—that only Italy can produce. What a delight
to listen to Shakespeare Spoken passionately and finely
without the use of that rant the English call elocu-
tion ! Only the Italians can play Shakespeare nowadays.
In ordinary life Signora Duse is a quiet, refined lady with
big questioning black eyes and beautiful hands (D’An-
nunzio dedicated La Giocouda to her—“ alia donna
dalle belle man! ”), and on her face the half-secret lines of
tragic passions and hopes that have been fought down.
Who would ever dream her capable of that panther-like
voluptuousness that speaks from her whole being in
Cleopatra! In the scene where the slave announces
Antony’s marriage with Octavia she is unrivalled. She
gives you a key which unlocks the inmost nature of this
Egyptian queen, this serpent of old Nile. Girlish wim
someness, and devilish lust and rage, and mortal jealousy,
are mingled in tins magnificent scene. And, next, night,
she is the charming dainty Venetian of Goldoni Miran-
dolina, with all her transformations of butterfly grace
and coquetry and mischief! But 1 shalf hover forget,
never, the desperate horror and wantonness of Cleo-
patra’s hands as she flings the asp to her bosom. It is
not acting death, it is dying. . . .
Bqt of this “ dramatic poem ” of D’Annunzio’s, this
“ Spring morning’s dream.” It is a thorough hybrid.
The episode is in Zola’s worst taste (it is that horribly-
affected motive which those who have read “ Rome ’>
will remember in the death of Benedettag The treatment
is an imitation of Maeterlinck, and the superb phrasing of
the flaccid characters is D’Annunzio's own. Briefly, the
“plot” is this. The “heroine” of the piece is a de-
mented young lady who has lost her lover. This lover
has been stabbed to death (by somebody mystically re-
ferred to as the Duke) while lying in Isabella’s arms, and
all night long she has lain with his warm blood flowing
over her, and lias felt his dying tremors ; and when dawn
comes she is demented. A brother of the murdered man
comes riding “ through the dewy springtide morning,”
and he has always silently been enamoured of the lady he
now finds mad, just as Isabella’s sister Beatrice is
enamoured of him. And now the demented Isabella
imagines herself becoming a part of the earth and the
springtime, a sister of the grass and flowers, and say's
many pretty things out of the middle of a laurel-bush.
Till suddenly she starts forward shrieking, because a red
insect has alighted on her arm, and she imagines herself
wrapped in blood again. Then the physician comes and
tries to quieten her with illusions—a butterfly has passed
with a message for her, and . . . and . , . and there the
matter ends. The curtain falls, and you turn to your
neighbor and ask what it all means. You can’t laugh,
and you can’t weep, and your neighbor shrugs his shoul-
ders, and turns his hands downwards from the artist and
his eyes to Heaven, and murmurs “ Chi lo mgg’ !”
Surely madness is out of place on the stage except when
by its pathos it serves to show better the heauty and value
of sanity. Shakespeare knew better than to write a drama
in which Ophelia was the only figure. Does D’Annunzio
wish to climax by contrasting madness with the fresh
light of spring, and leave the rest to our sense for sym-
bolism? His failure to stir the heart condemns him
There is at present an eager worship of D’Annunzio in
Germany, especially in South Germany and Austria.
The leader is young Hugo von Hoffinansthal, an
astonishing parallel of the Italian maestro ; and he repre-
sents the reaction against the naturalist and realistic
school of Hauptmann and Sudermann. D’Annunzio,
Maeterlinck, Hofi'mnnsthal— each wishes renaissance of
beauty in the deama, in form, conception and mysticism ;
and away with Ibsen 1 The aspiration is a good one;
but -but -as often before, the spirit is willing, the flesh
weak. '
This year sees the 70th birth-anniversary of Paul Heyse,
the Bavarian novelist and poet—“ heir of Goethe,” as his
admirers call him. Two of the best novels in German
literature are his work—“ Die Kinder der Welt” and
“Im Paradiese.” By his short stories, translations, &c.
he has dme more to make Italian poetry arid Italy
beloved than any other German, hiving in Munchen, in
touch with the best of German art, he holds one hand
north-ward to Germany, the other southward to Italy,
whither his eyes have always turned.
Let green weeds gather in our garden ways,
Let summer suns hum down our favourite blooms
But let no happy-hearted brides and grooms
Cross the dear paths, for sake of those dear days.
Let Time rot down our homestead walls and rase,
Let gray dost gather and the grief of tombs,
But never to those laughter-loving rooms
Give laughter entrance while a roof-beam stays.
Let them stand lonely by the outer gate,
The late-won lovers and the tardy friends ;
And ever, while one tear for memory starts,
Drop their kind hands : let us be brave and wait,
The world’s new loves can make us no amends.
Let us be loyal to our empty hearts.
N.S.W.
W.H.O .


Size, when closed, Sin. over all.
W. JNO. BAKER’S
Wire Key Sportsman’s Knife
(Registered)
Contains File, Wire Key, Lance Blade, Long Skinning Blade, Screw Driver,
Leather Punch and Tin Opener combined, Cartridge Extractor, Corkscrew,
Gimlet, Rhymer, Picker, Tweezer, Shackle, with Tab
Chain, complete, jm —
21/-
each.
Post Free.
Tab Chain haa Hook and Button Tab for securing knife against loss,
or Belt Pouch in lieu of Chain, if preferred.
4ST Please Write for Free Illustrated Catalogue.
W. JNO. BAKER, Cutler, 3 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Skins, &c.
p MßgßMaßaaEßaßaMßK^ 3MMaHßMsaMMßMMßaffiamM|lMiflU j rirrrmM r ffg a aMßßnß r*i l <MMf
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
SY DKTB Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
C B B
S^ A
saoa
/-dfc.
?80j
/AS
HIL&ISB6
MM SBO7
5808
Guaranteed oof to or burt*
'CBB
BRIAR
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Soiling 1 Daily.
sooniiiiis m
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
*r THIS IS THE LATEST TYPE!
GRAMOPHONE-or
ZONOPHONE!
h
BARGAINS I
(Join Slot graphophone £c
Same as formerly, £l6. J
Gem Phonograph, 30-
RECORDS, 2/6 REDUCTION EOR QUANTITY.
Everything Reduced. Try!
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe Street, Sydney (Only),
(near G.P.0.)
ĥ
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR
For the Treatment of
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Hay Fever, Asthma,
Colds, influenza, Headache, Catarrhal
Deafness. Book of Treatment , Free.
Price of Medicator (size, 4 inches long, Nickel-
plated), and 4 months’ treatment, 1 Bottle Com-
pound Inhalent, and 1 tin
Nasal Ointment, only
10-
Post Free.
HOME CATARRH CURE CO
231 COLLINS ST;, MELBOURNE.
Publications.
LADIES-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
ħ
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET
°BOOKs!
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
ILLTJSXR A TED
h
TAT IT H numerous anatomical
colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for postage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 452, G.P.0., SYDNEY,
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature lias not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, the Lovers’ Encyclopedia will supply the art.
To love Is to wish to possess. You can—the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gate and you have only to
step in. It considers tiie whole subject from the time yon
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for baslifumess, and many
other tilings heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters, and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit bits in prose and poetry
tii-t you can find daily use for. 2s. Gd. (stamps 2d. extra) will
bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally hap.
piuess with one you love. Anglo-American Publishing Co.,
Waterloo Chambers, 4SB George-st., Sydney, N.S.W. Mention
ti ts paper when writing.
TRICOCOUy
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
MEMORY.
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
42 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
“Extracts from' Letters.
J. T. GRESTY, Esq., Prof. Mus., Syd.—“ It has increase*
my natural memory for music to a remarkable degree. T<
musical students it will be a great boon, and a suri
stepping-stone to success.”
Mr. 0. T. DAVIS, Dunedin, N.Z.—“ It lias greatly
strengthened my natural memory, and 'given "me th<
power to readily connect and to lastingly memorise th<
most abstruse, disconnected and uninteresting matter-
making study easy and delightful.”
STEPHEN. R. MILLER, Esq., Sydney.—“ Your rule;
are perfectly natural, and tend as much to improve ai
ordinary memory as to cure a bad one. In my positio
as Chief Clerk of the Statistical branch of the Ry. Dept,
have great scope for memory. Your system has been o
very great service to me.”
o
or
w*
KP
OLD
RNs
SUNBu
.CHAR
FIMg
c />
N
&.C
S'Ve
s
Y
ttt
P «op
r, etors .
Publishers: Turner
and Henderson, SYDNEY*
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co.
LIMITED .
SELLING CHARGES
For the Conning Wool Season
2 l
o
o
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
” New South Wales and Queensland,
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Wooigrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING
f per Cent
(including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charge will be ... ... ... ... ... Bs. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of IMaraupial Skins Held Weekly•
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
All Chemists.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
tar For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 55.; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
tar For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, ss. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
o(&o)iMafibihsicd.
Regd.
“LAWRUB” DRESS
FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD 18 STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
4tl>
o6Ui)tild
EVERY YARD IS BTAMPED
STOGDAU & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, George St., Sydney.
V j
f
Uo
rm
\A
%
vVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING |
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
- ELECTRIC AG APPLIANCES, invented by |
j Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
Istrator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-|
' CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.'
;DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER*
3 LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can.
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-"
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia, i
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General"
J Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc. t
I They impart vigor and potency to every funotion,"
• brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and i
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted *
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and i
may be worn without the slightest possibility of*
detection. They have cured thousands. 1
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. a.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
aUailiments ..880 i
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0 i
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and |
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, |
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &e.
All communications should be addressed to — |
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney (


TATTERSALL’S
I
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS. Hotoart.
SANDHUEST C.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
above.
TsToy. 28.
shares in the
Name
Address
SUMMER C. Dec. 26
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
above*
shares
in
£
Name
Address
CARRINGTON S. Deo. 29.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. shares in above.
Name.
Address.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address ce care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
B*St Prices-
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Glarence-st., Sydney.
FiyiD
MWttJIA
„ RfOWWUP
/\EH
TsmifTm
ervovs <r
AieadACHE
THIN
$
HAIR
Lots of peo-
ple have thin
hair. Per-
haps their
parents had
thin hair; per-
haps their
children have
thin hair. But
this does not
make it neces-
sary for them
to have thin hair.
One thing
you may
rely upon-
makes the
hair healthy
and vigor-
ous ; makes
it grow
mn
M&ir
visor
thick and long. It cures dan-
druff also.
It always restores color to
gray hair, —all the dark, rich
color of early life. There is
no longer need of your look-
ing old before your time.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies the blood,
and clears the complexion.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A
“ DOWUIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
SFBCIA-L KTOTIOB.
NEXT DISTRIBUTION of the PROFITS at 31st DECEMBER, 1900.
ALL POLICIES issued before the close of the current year will participate in the profits to be then distributed.
The Amount of CASH BONUSES distributed among the participating policy-holders during the single year 1899
was £510,771 (bonuses vest immediately on policies attaining a duration of two years). Every Year a Bonus Year.
Intending proposers should note the above carefully, and send in their proposals at once, either direct or through
the Society’s agents, so as to reap the benefit of this year’s Bonus.
DIRECTORS—Sir J. P. Abbott, K.0.M.G., M.L.0., Chairman ; Thos. Littlejohn, Esq., Deputy Chairman; Joseph
Abbott, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. ; B. Short, Esq. ; J. T. Walker, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary— RlCHAßD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
Head Office : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
ĥ
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
43f Send for a
Catalogue.
ħ
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Beat and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
For more Than Qne Hundred Sears
SOAP
has maintained its supremacy in tlie face of the whole
world’s competition. Such a record could not be
achieved without cause. Temporary successes are com-
paratively easy, but for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man who has once tried Pears’ Soap in the form of a
Shaving Stick wants no other, he takes it with him on all
his journeys. The woman who travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
, “ matchless for the complexion.”
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England,
BEWARE OK SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
for making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Eruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS aloue.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours femon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd,Subiaco, Perth, W. A. & 68,King St., Melbourne
IM.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Mlanf. Company
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, a 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, fill.
Double Buggies, .£2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phaetons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio n of vehicles in Stock and Made
toOrder. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
I han we oan. They oannot do 90, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL STo. 2
£8 18/6
Dolirered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Silence of Mullock Creek.
He was dubbed the Lisping Infant when he came
to Mullock Creek;
Most confiding was his nature, and his manners
they were meek;
He was fair and wore an eyeglass, and a Sunday
suit for days;
He’d a soft, engaging simper, and such fascinating
ways.
’Twas a time of sore adversity, and sinful men and
weak
Said that Fate created Clyde to be the prey of
Mullock Creek;
For he’d booked himself at Hogan’s pub. effusively
and rash
As the travelling representative of eighty thou-
sand, cash.
He was buying mining properties. His syndicate
in town
Had the greatest faith in Mullock Creek. The
terms were money-down.
So if any man amongst us wished to sell a likely
show,
Would he kindly state his price, “ and furnish
samples, don’t you know.”
’Twas the softest thing on earth beneath. The
Creek dissembled well—
Not a man about the field but had a score of shows
to sell —
But from Cooper’s Hump to Fly bite they were
roaring down below
At the Johnnie buying leases “as per sample,
don’t you know.”
Soon the joke was bandied freely, miners yelled it
near and far.
“ Where’s yer samples ? ” was the greeting on the
brace and in the bar,
And each grimy digger answered he was ‘ ‘ trav -
lin’ fer his chief,
With a lovely lot o’ samples of ihe latest lines o’
reef! ”
But the Infant was oblivious, and when any of
the throng
Tried to sell a golden lode, and took no specimens
along,
He would answer very cutely : “How on earth’s
a chap to know
What he’s buying if you haven’t any samples here
to show ? ”
So for bits of golden stone arose a wonderful
demand ;
They were prigged from stopes and hoppers, they
were gathered in the land.
Treasured specimens from Bendigo and half-a-
hundred fields
Served to advertise the local lodes and guarantee
the yields.
Peter Hirst with lumps of barren quartz and seven
weights of gold
Made the sweetest lot of “samples” (’twas a
cunning trick of old),
And the stranger placed the specimens in little
canvas bags,
With the vendors’ names and figures neatly stated
on the tags.
Clyde was eager to submit the splendid offers he’d
received,
With the “samples,” to his people in the city, we
believed, ,
And in some way every owner knew his cat was
in the pot,
Though the Infant rather fancied that his firm
would buy the lot.
Now, its wondrous expectations worked the creek
a moral ill,
And so cold and proud the diggers grew they
wouldn’t lift a drill,
But they drank of Hogan’s whisky till the sinners
couldn’t see,
And the town and district started on a bucking
jamboree.
Still from far and near the miners came with pro-
perties to sell,
Bringing “samples” down in sacks, and some cn
sleds and drays as well.
When the Infant took receipt they joined the
dissipated throng
Charming snakes in Hogan’s bar until their
cheques should come along.
When at length the vendors sobered they went
searching everywhere
Round the township for the Infant, but the Infant
wasn’t there.
He had fled. A studious absence on the part of
Mrs. Hirst
Was coincidental maybe, but her husband feared
the worst.
Then a letter came to Hogan, which he kindly
read aloud:
“As I’ve cleaned you out at Mullock Creek, it’s
fair to tell the crowd
How those lovely ‘samples’ yielded,” so the
Infant’s letter ran.
“ I have had them milled ; they ran to sixty
ounces in the pan ! ” t
Not a syllable was spoken, stunned and silently
the men
Turned and drifted off, and silently they sought
their holes again.
Should you visit Mullock Creek to-day, you’ll find
they can’t forget,
And that awful silence brooding o’er the stricken
township yet. i
v.
EDWARD DYSON.


Books on Mining, Assaying, Engineering, Ssc.
TDARK’S Cyanide Process, 6s 6d ; Beringer’s Assaying,
11s 6d ; Johnson’s Getting Gold, 4s ; Cox’s Prospect-
ing Min rals, 6s 6d ; Lock’s Miner’s Pocket Book, 14a;
Eissler's Metallurgy Gold, 17s ; Innes’ Centrifugal Pumps,
6s; Trautwine’s Civil Engineer’s Pocket Book, 235;
Haeder’s Steam Engine Handbook, 9s; Molesworth’s
Engineer’s Pocket Book, 6s 6d ; Wannan’s Engineer’s
Guide, 5s 6d ; Danas’ Mineralogy, 18s 6d ; Trail’s Boilers,
13s ; Wellington’s Railway Location, 265. Posted to any
Address. Catalogues Gratis. J. DONNE & SON,
Booksellers, 34-6 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Books. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for £2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1698 edition,
£8 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. fid. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R. W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streeo, Sjdney.
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
miIT „ Established 1871.
T , SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
iV ei Ti' S -j on Proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.OL
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,330,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
•X'O DEFY CO MPSTITIOKT.
WINES 37 “ “ °' dv of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
lapses’ Tailoring
—SPRING-
NEW SELF SHADES
IN
Meltons, Venetians & Sergerettes.
LATEST DESIGNS
IN
Fancy Worsteds and Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each In-
coming Mailboat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
Registered under the “Companies
Act, 1890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S.A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, over £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £838,581.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranqer.
ORDER «' FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 52 Vic. and 69 Vic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The 1.0. P. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, but also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
All Premium paying in the 1.0. F. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability.
EXAMPLES:
JEIOO Policy.
f Age 18 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
\ Monthly Ppemium Is. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd. 2s. lid. 3s. 6d. 4s. 4d. 6s. Id.
Policies for £lOO, £2OO, £4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women,
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
Office for South Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria. Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. McNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for New South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 George St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus, with full Table of Rates, (be., on Application.
h
ĥ
TO
SECURETHEGENty
B
BB
mr,
• ..y , .5'
kftEFULLYATTHE BRAND:
ħ
STieK T©
CAME©
CIGARETTES
PB
OFFICIAL
Gentlemen,
Public Works Department,
Sydney, 23rd July, 1900.
In reply to your letter of the 14th Inst, with reference to the 3-ply Ruberoid Roofing which was laid down upon the floor
of the Phillip Street entrance to this Department on the 12th December, last, in lieu of floor cloth. I have the honor to inform
you that the average number of persons who passed over the part of passage from which the sample submitted was taken, was
about 8,000 per week, or about 250,000 during the period the covering has been in use. The sample of Ruberoid removed
from the floor is returned herewith as requested.
1 have the honor to be, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
ROBERT HICKSON,
Under Secretary and Commissioner for Roads.
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
24 and 26 O'Connell Street,
Sydney.
NOTE. —It is fair to presume that fully 400,000 people have now walked, over the 1* & B Ruberoid which still covers the floor of the
passage above referred to, and still appears unchanged.
RB
PUBLIC WORKS
Public Works Department,
Government Architect's Branch,
Sydney, sth June, 1900.
Dear Sirs,
The recent removal of the temporary Railway Booking and Parcels Office in Martin Place has afforded an opportunity of
careful examination of the two-ply “Ruberoid" roofing supplied by you, and with which the roofs were covered in August,
1897. I have examined a portion of the ‘ ‘ Ruberoid ’ ’ removed, and. so far as lam able to judge, it does not show any signs
o) deterioration, and is practically as good as new.
I attach samples, as you might possibly wish to keep them.
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
24 O'Connell Street, Sydney,
Faithfully yours,
W. L. VERNON,
Government Architect,
P. & B. Ruberoid is much (cheaper and cooler than Galvanised Iron.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1081.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1900.
Prick 6d.
GOV. BEAUCHAMP’S DEPARTURE.-PARTING WORDS.
THE BOY-GOVERNOR : “Good-bye, old chappie; and if I’ve said anything to—to—in short, as Kipling says”
L.B.M.: “Oh! that’s all right, my boy, I’ve forgiven everything, and am sorry you’re going just as we were learning to like you. Bon voyage! And, by-the-bye, if I
were you I wouldn’t quote Kipling till I gob quite beyond sight of land!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
*• Australia for the, Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydnet,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed'to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
\mhlixhers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other A rticles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
mil be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
nr other topical drawings in line or icash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid, for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a rjood idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction,
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of TnE Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street <fc Co., Cortihill.
San Francisco.—77ie Argonaut office, 256 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Caoetoion ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
West ralia, and 3fnor Hand.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
€l , with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
) To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of 1 fal. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY. NOVEMBER, 3, 1900.
A Policy for the Commonwealth—A
Federal Life Assurance Department.
The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have
power to make laws for the peace, order, and good
government of the Commonwealth with respect to ... .
14. Insurance, other than State Insurance ; also, State
Insurance extending beyond the limits of the State con-
cerned.—Commonwealth Constitution, clause 51.
As the Federal Government is entrusted
with power to make laws dealing with insur-
ance matters in every form, except as regards
State insurance when the business is con-
fined within the limits of the State con-
cerned, it is fairly obvious that it has power
to establish a Federal Life Assurance
Department doing business all over the
Commonwealth territory. As to the desira-
bility of using that power, there is, in The
Bulletin’s opinion, no possible shadow of
doubt whatever. Life assurance, above all
otherthings, requires to befounded on a rock.
There is no rock too large or too solid to
found it on. It is pre-eminently a thing for
the State to undertake, for the State can
give better security than any company or
society whatsoever. The A.M.P. Society is
one of the grandest and most solid things of
its kind, but another A.M.P. Society, with, in
addition to the guarantee of its £16,000,000
of assets, the added guarantee of all Aus-
tralia and Tasmania, would be a great deal
grander and much more solid. It is impos-
sible to have too much security behind an
institution which is responsible for the for-
tunes of so many thousands of prospective
widows and orphans. Moreover, life assur-
ance is now compulsory with a large class of
the community. In a considerable portion
of Australia civil servants are required
to take out a life policy as one of
the fixed conditions of their employment.
It will presumably be the sanie, dr something
like the same, with the Commonwealth’s
servants. And no Government has a right
to compel anybody to assure his life unless
it also provides him with an absolutely safe
office to do it in. At present the public
servant is merely bidden to go out and buy
a life policy somewhere or anywhere, and if,
in his ignorance, he is beguiled into doing it
in an office which comes to grief and doesn’t
pay up, the State offers him no redress.
* * * «
Next to providing an absolutely safe office
it is essential to provide a cheap one. The
Commonwealth Government can do both.
It can build up a large institution where the
expenses, after the unavoidable preliminary
outlay of the first year, won’t be over 5 per
cent, of the receipts. It can work its
institution at little more than half
the cost of even the marvellously
cheap A.M.P. Society. The great outlay
with the ordinary life office is the very heavy
commission and other preliminary charges
that have to be paid to secure new busi-
ness. The Commonwealth Government, by
compulsorily insuring all its own servants to
begin with, can get a large amount of good
and permanent business without paying any
commission. It can also collect the pre-
miums without any commission, by the
simple process of deducting the amount
from its servants’ salaries. As its servants
increase in number so also will its business
increase. It can also, probably, make ar-
rangements for doing business with the
servants of the State Governments. As
regards the general public it can reach them
by allowing a number of its employes to
act as agents on a very small commission.
The commission would certainly be much
smaller than the rate they could get from
private offices if they were allowed to act
as agents for private offices, but as they
are not allowed to do so they would lose
no existing income, and would gain a
small new one. The competition of the
Federal Government might injure the busi-
ness of existing offices, but if there isn’t
enough business to go round, and someone
must be injured, it is to the public interest
that the cheapest office with the best security
should win, and that the more expensive
offices with the second-best security should
lose.
• • • •
Even if the extra competition ended in the
closing up of some of the existing offices it
would be rather beneficial than otherwise.
Several of the small proprietary offices of
this country exist more for the interests of
the shareholders and the management than
for the good of the policy holders, and as
far as concerns the insuring public—which is
the community at large—their destruction
would be a blessing. Some otherwise respect-
able mutual societies are managed so expen-
sively that, if they could be replaced by a far
more cheaply-coutrolled State institution,
the advantage to the insuring public in the
shape of increased profits would be very
great, and their vanishment would also be
something of a blessing to the community in
general. In some cases it might even be
beneficial to the existing members if these
institutions were compelled, by the extra
pressure of State competition, to give up
doing the new business which they buy so
expensively, and go into a gradual process of
winding up. It would be bad, no doubt, for
the glory and vanity and salary of the
management if an office ceased growing and
began to die away, but the existing policy-
holders in these extravagantly-managed
concerns gain nothing by the struggle to
attract new business. It is an open ques-
tion if the new business does not, in some
cases, cost so much as to seriously diminish
the old members’ profits, in which case these
old members might gain a visible cash ad-
vantage if their institutions went into a
process of slow extinction.
• * • 4
The Commonwealth’s Life Assurance De-
partment would need no palatial offices
to make kniwu its existence. It wouldn’t
require to spread itself over a huge mass of
advertising space. Its security and the
handsome profits it made by the economy of
its management would be its advertisement.
It would have a considerable body of clients
secured to it, without expense, among the
public servants, and it could take whatever
other business came in its way, and wait.
It needn’t scatter its money in frantic and
costly efforts to make itself within a few
years the biggest office in Australasia ; size
would come to it. If it never became the
biggest office in Australasia that wouldn’t
matter; it would be the safest, which is
much better, and it would be large enough
for all ordinary purposes.
• • * •
Such an institution wouldn’t require to
hustle after a large, insecure mortgage
business with a view to making extensive
profits. If it invested all its pile at
an average rate of per cent, (and it
could probably get that in good State and
municipal securities) and kept its expenses
down to 5 per cent., it would be
able to pay practically the same bonus
rates as the A.M.P. Society, and no-
thing much better could be asked for.
It could pay much larger bonuses than any
of the A.M.P.’s large rivals. The expense
of managing its funds would be greatly re-
duced by this method of investment, and that
would be an additional factor in diminishing
the expenses Further, there would be no
heavy losses through the periodical slump in
the value of the foreclosed property. With
practically no commission to pay. no need
for display, no lavish advertising, no pon-
derous investment department to maintain,
no foreclosed properties to manage, and
no losses through slump in the foreclosed
properties to write off, there is no visible
reason why a Commonwealth Life Assurance
Department should not be managed at a
cost of 5 per cent, or even less. It would
bear no resemblance at all—except in the
matter of its State security—to the Maori-
land State Life Office, which hustles for
business in the ordinary expensive fashion.
There would be no need for any special
judgment in the selection of securities, for
the rules laid down would make it almost
impossible to commit serious error, and
there would be no vast and elaborate system
of pushing business to organise at the out-
set. Under these circumstances one small
and reasonably honest man and an office-boy,
with a two-roomed office to start in and a
sign-board, could lay the inexpensive but
solid foundations of the most reliable life
assurance department in the world. The
loud and bitter cursing of the Fat
Man press would give it a good
send-off gratis in the way of adver-
tising. It could be further advertised
cheaply on the cover of Hansard and on all
government publications, blue-books, books
of statistics. Bills and Acts of Parliament ;
and a notice-board (not the kind that dis-
figures the landscape) conld bo hung outside
every Government office, benevolent asylum,
hospital, gaol, lock-up, railway-station, &c.,
setting forth its advantages at length. The
Federal Old Age Pension office could be run
in the same building and under the same
management to further reduce the expenses.
Old Age Pensions are a kind of life assurance,
and the association of the two establish-
ments would emphasise the fact.
m * • •
Some day, no doubt, in a more advanced
state of civilisation, life assurance will be
made general and compulsory. When that
time comes there will be a magnificent
future before the Commonwealth’s Life
Assurance Department, but that stage of
civilisation can’t be reached until there is
such a department; the public can’t be com-
pelled to insure unless the same power which
compels it also supplies a safe place to insure
in. There is no definite reason why the
Commonwealth should not some day add fire
and accident insurance to its other avoca-
tions ; the latter, in particular, is an essen-
tial feature in every scheme of civilisation,
and at present it is solely in the hands of
proprietary companies whose rates, if the
vastness of their profits is any criterion, are
woefully exorbitant. In a certain indirect
way, too, such a Department as that sug-
gested above would do a good work apart
from the ostensible reasons of its existence.
By investing its accumulations mostly in
State securities it would help a little towards
buying out the British money-lender who
has such a stupendous lien on this country,
and aid in making Australia independent of
that external incubus. And every agency
which helps, however slightly, in that direc-
tion is a blessing to the much-mortgaged
land of Australia, whose three great products
are wool, gold and I O U’s, with a few
obscure vegetables in the background.
A Plea for the Loving Woman.
Invited to open a maternity home recently,
a lady occupying a high social position in
Maoriland is reported to have publicly said
that the need of such homes was a blot
upon civilisation ; and their establishment might
tend to increase instead of curing the evil, unless
some legal penalty was imposed upon the parents
of illegitimate children, who were morally and
often physically defective. “She thought that a
second offence clearly proved some moral defect,
and that in such cases legal detention should be
resorted to, say for two years on the birth of a
second, and three years on the birth of a third
illegitimate child.” And The Bulletin is sorry
for the lady.
* * * *
For this reason, among others. If it were her
own daughter who sinned —under stress of temp-
tation, or in the urgency of circumstances, or from
a woman’s need of love, in the woman’s glory of
loving too much—would this severe moralist send
her own daughter to gaol, to herd with criminals
and prostitutes ? Or to a penitentiary, to have her
mind shattered, her spirit stifled, her health per-
haps destroyed by routine and confinement ?
Without knowing the lady, imagining her the
ordinary, ignorant, well-meaning, often well-
doing woman, The Bulletin is very sure she
would not. She would surely say with
Ingebsoll : “ Go where you will; commit
what crime you may ; fall to what depths of
degradation you may ; you can never commit any
crime that will shut my door, my arms, my heart
to you.” And if she would say this, by what
right, what standard of justice, does she mete out
to another woman’s child, a less fortunate woman’s
unfortunate child, the cruel punishment which
she would deny to her own ?
* * * *
It is not singular, yet it is singular, that all this
Christianity should contain so little charity.
Jesus was the friend of sinning women ; even to
the woman taken in adultery he refused con-
demnation with, “Go in peace”; “Yea, till
seventy times seven ” he enjoined forgiveness of a
brother’s sins. And love outside marriage is not
a crime ; illegitimacy is not a crime. They have
been made legal crimes in darker generations ; but
light has banished them from most civilised
statute-books. It is true that in Australian com-
munities the illegitimate has still some legal
disabilities —and more shame to the communities.
The penalty which follows the incontinent woman
(and not the incontinent man) is a social penalty,
and it is sufficient for even the highest moralist
who has not gained his morals at the expense of
his reason.
* * * *
The edifice of morality is based on human
interests, and beneath human interests lie human
instincts. Next to Hunger, Love is the most
obvious human instinct, the greatest controlling
human force. You can no more stifle love than
you can stifle hunger—even if it were wise to try.
All that you can do is to endeavor to regulate love
for the benefit of the individual, the benefit of
the race.
* * * »
Possibly this earth may some day breed men
and women whose passions will be strong, yet held
firmly under restraint; but that day D hardly yet
within even imaginable distance. The history of
humanity, for the comparatively short time of
which we have record, shows always the same
animal hidden under a greater or less veneer of
polish. And it shows, too, fortunately or
unfortunately, that civilisation as we know it
carries the seed of its own decay; and that the
hyper-cultured nation tends sooner or later to
emasculation, with the. result of destruction by
some more brutal, but more virile, tribe.
• * * *
The virtuous woman would not send another
woman’s daughter to the penitentiary for being
hungry : why should she send her for loving, and
producing children as the fruit of love ? Loving
is as natural to a woman as hunger, and almost as
necessary. Starvation from love is just as real
and almost as fatal as starvation from hunger. It
brings in its train a special series of morbid phy-
sical and psychical effects—ailments and diseases
so numerous that many medical men, if they
dared, would counsel the love-cure at whatever
cost of conventional morality. To those who
understand it, the number of prematurely aged
and blighted women, withering for want of love,
is quite as great a social evil and cause of social
scandal as the number of women prostituted to love.
It is easy for the woman happily married to
counsel her suffering sister to press her breast
against the thorns of celibacy, and utter no cry ;
but that is not humane counsel, and its accept-
ance is an unnatural acceptance.
» * * *
The woman who revolts against the social con-
vention is punished by social ostracism; and if
she becomes more than once a mother it is urged
that she should be punished by imprisonment as
well. Imprison a woman for fulfilling her highest
instincts ! Imprison maternity ! Of what perver-
sion of Nature is not convention capable when it
issues advice such as that ! Did the lady
who is so shocked at illegitimacy ever con-
sider the prevalence of abortion in Australian
communities even now, when illegitimate
child - bearing is legally unpunished ? Did she
ever consider how abortion would increase if
continued illegitimate child-hearing were legally
punishable by imprisonment ? Of the two evils,
illegitimacy or abortion, would even this patroness
of chastity prefer abortion ?
* * * *
An illegitimate child is likely to be no more
“morally and physically defective” than a legi-
timate child. Indeed, conceived in passion, it is
more likely to be vigorous than the child of a jaded
marriage - bed. The moral and physical defects
of which the M.L. lady speaks are the gift of social
convention—the convention which decrees that
an unmarried woman shall bear her child in fear
and nourish it in trembling—the mark of social
obloquy, the object of the contemptuous pity of
“good” women with the pride of the Pharisee.
Social convention brands a child “illegitimate,”
and degrades it in estimation until it is degraded
in fact. And the remedy is not to punish the
mother, but to reform the convention.
* * * •
Illegitimacy is an evil partly because the social
convention is too deeply rooted for reform ; but
chiefly because it destroys that family life upon
which the best human progress is based. “No-
body’s child ” is heavily handicapped in the effort
to become a good citizen. The community should
endeavour to reduce illegitimacy to the minimum
which human frailty allows; but not by im-
prisoning the mother. It can only be done by
improving social conditions, with the end of
popularising marriage. If the community so well
governed itself that it would be possible for every
man to marry and found a comfortable home
before he was 30, every woman before she was 20,
the question of illegitimacy might almost be
neglected. In a word, to cure illegitimacy, you
must solve the whole economic problem ; and the
increase or decrease of illegitimacy is proportioned
to the community’s success in solving the economic
problem. Wherever there is human nature there
will always be—so far as we can see in the future
—some illegitimacy. But the ideal of simple
living, the inculcation of self-restraint within
reasonable limits, the care of fathers and mothers,
the equalisation of fortunes, the honesty and
capacity of governments, the justice of laws—
these are some of the things which will reduce
illegitimacy to its lowest terms. The Maoriland
lady’s remedy is much simpler, certainly. And
the cure would be ten times worse than the disease.
* * * *
The pity of illegitimacy (while the tribe of frigid
women is increasing) is that it almost always
befalls the children of the loving woman. The
girl who yields is often the richest in womanhood,
the best fitted to do credit to her sex. It is the
very wealth of her nature which brings her to
poverty. And it is often the poor in spirit, the
weak in sex, who in the social topsyturveydom
have the “virtue” (frigidity) and “the good
name ” (absence of temptation) which license them
to condemn her.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Banks of the Poor and Miserable.
Some weeks ago Australia’s alleged Freetrade
leader, George Reid, delivered a much-advertised
address at Melbourne on the blessings and advan-
tages of the policy which he never dared to prac-
tise during the five years of his alleged Freetrade
Premiership. In that address he effusively com-
pared the number of factory-workers in N.S.W.
and Victoria, greatly to the latter’s disadvantage,
the Victorian figures being, as usual, a perfectly
inaccurate set, made especially for the purpose—
something like the famous invented list of Vic-
torian prices which Reid once presented to Par-
liament, and about which he had to crawl down so
abjectly. He also spoke about the great increase
of England’s wealth under Freetrade, carefully
suppressing the fact that, according to so eminent
a Freetrade authority as Mui.hall’s “Dictionary
of Statistics,” Protectionist Germany, France and
the United States are all, in proportion
to population, increasing in wealth faster
than England. Likewise lie spread himself
in the same fashion, and with the same suppres-
sions, on manufactures and other things, and in a
wild, loud moment he said this :
The great millions of England were rising under it
(Freetrade). The Savings Banks of England have
£150,000,000 deposited in them—an increase of £36,000,000
in four years. THERE they saw the vitality of the
divine principle of human freedom breaking through the
clouds that encompassed it, bringing down the high and
raising the poor and miserable.
This seems a handy and accessible test, so The
Bulletin is quite willing to meet G;. Reid on his
own ground, and to assume that savings bank de-
posits—-being mainly the deposits of the work-
ing classes—are the_best criterion as to which
policy makes the people most prosperous and does
most to raise the poor and miserable. And on
that ground Freetrade —or what Reid calls Free-
trade—is utterly damned. The fact that under
Freetrade the pile of wealth in the British
People’s Banks is increasing doesn’t prove


that Freetrade is better than Protection ; it is
necessary to prove that the pile of the poor and
miserable in the leading Freetrade country in-
creases faster than in the leading Protectionist
countries. Apropos of which the following figures
are taken from the latest edition of the “ Dic-
tionary of Statistics,” published by that vigorous
English Freetrader, Mulhall :
From 1840 to 1889 (Mulhall, Page 86.)
Savings Bank Savings Bank
Freetrade Deposits Deposits Increase.
State (1840). (1889).
United Kingdom £23,400,000 £107,200,000 £83,800,000
Protectionist
States
France .. „ 7,600,000 111,800,000 104,200,000
Austria .. 3,000,000 122,600,000 119,600,000
Germany.. .. 4,000,000 144,600,000 140,600,000
No particulars about the United States are given
in this table—U.S. statistics don’t go back so far;
but so far as it goes it is a great shock to Reid’s
garbled tales about the raising of the poor and
miserable. Up till 1810 Britain was more Pro-
tectionist than France, Austria, or Germany, and
it was miles ahead of all of them put together
in its Savings Bank deposits. Then Britain
adopted a kind of Freetrade while the others
remained Protectionist or else became' more
Protectionist —and they all left Britain behind
utterly and hopelessly. Then Mulhall gives
another table dealing with the same subject, and
covering a further period of seven years—from
1889 to 1896 :
From 1889 to 1896 (Mulhall, page 643).
T» .... T J. Savings Bank Savings Bank
sreeiraae Deposits Deposits Increase.
btate. (1889). (1896).
United Kingdom £107,200,000 £154,800,000 £47,600,000
Protectionist.
States.
France .. .. 111,800,000 165,800,000 54,000,000
Austria .. .. 122,600,000 178,400,000 55,800,000
Germany .. 144,609,000 212,500,000 67,900,000
United States .. 284,000,000 446,000,000 162,000,000
If, as George Reid says, savings bank deposits
are the fairest test of the average prosperity and
comfort of the people, then Freetrade is utterly
lost. In this matter, as in almost every other,
Britain was ahead of the world before it left off
Protection. And in this matter, as in almost
every other, Britain has been losing its lead ever
since it left off Protection. When G. Reid
hunted up his British Savings Bank figures to aim
at the head of a weary public, he could hardly
avoid coming across the others also. The fact
that he suppressed the truth as regards these
others is just like G. Reid—probably the most
unscrupulous suppresser in Australian politics.
♦ ■
Rookwood. Asylum.
“ Old Hand ” to The Bulletin :
One way of commemorating in N.S. Wales the nativity
of Australian Federation would be to abolish the cruel
convict-system of treating the chronic sick and aged at
Rookwood Asylum. The convict stain of this State is now
apparent chiefly in the Botany Bay Government Bureau-
cracy which has been evolved from precedents established
by the tyrants and bullies who came out to the country
in connection with the convict system. Many of their
descendants, now in office, adhere to the principles of their
progenitors, and strive to “ block ”. all humani-
tarian progresss. Despite the burning-down of
the Garden Palace, allegedly to destroy unpleasant
records, and the mutilation, with the same
purpose, of sundry books in the Public Library,
that birthstain will never be completely wiped out unti.
Rookwood Asylum is done away with as a place for penal-
izing poverty conjoined with age and disease. In any
case, the establishment of a gigantic invalid settlement,
to which all the pauper sick of the State, are to be de-
ported, close to a reservoir connected with the water-
supply of Sydnev, is a danger to the health of the metro-
polis. Both these questions were decided some years ago
by expert witnesses before a Parliamentary com-
mittee, which reported adversely on the Rookwood
hospital scheme, and a large sum of money
was voted for building, in a suitable place, a hos-
pital for the up-to-date treatment of chronic
cases. Where is that money now? And where is
the hospital? Rookwood Asylum is known to the in-
mates of the Government institutions as the slaughter-
house. And there is only one other place in the civilised
world where the indigent sick are kept out of touch with
their friends and relatives and are practically imprisoned.
That is in Queensland—old Moreton Bay—which derived
its ideas of philanthropy from the Botany Bay regime of
the older State. The legacy of Lagdom, in fact, is
answerable for the semi-penal establishments of Dunwich
in Leperland and Rookwood in Lagland. These insti-
tutions are types of a barbarous and antiquated system
that would hot be tolerated in any community laying
claim to being in line with the progress of the age.
♦
The A.M.P. iUcens on Vote.
The referendum of the A.M.P. policy-holders o i
the question of spreading the business to Great
Britain and “ other parts of the Empire ” panned
out badly for the cocksure and arrogant extension
party. The mock vote which was first taken gave
119,505 for the spreading process and only 28,820
against—a total vote of 148,325. On that occasion
the policy-holders were not asked to express an
opinion for or against extension. They merely
received papers to sign, appointing Joseph
Abbott and another director their proxies at a
meeting at which Joseph Abbott and the other
man would kindly vote for the extension on their
behalf. Most of them were in the habit of signing
such proxies as a mere matter of form, and
appointing anybody whose name happened to
appear thereon to represent them, as a mere
matter of form, at a merely formal meeting. The
document didn’t allow them to say whether
they were for or against the extension, so
they naturally didn’t say. There was a stamped
and addressed envelope enclosed for return,
and with these facilities it was really
easier to return it signed than to leave it
lying about the house. There were no means
provided for voting against the directors’ pro-
posals 5 the policy-holders weren’t even told where
to send their proxies if they wanted them used
against the Abbott party’s (that is to say, the
office party’s) scheme. It was practically the
same as if Lyne stood against Reid for King
Division and the official announcement read:
“ Electors who want to vote for Lyne can do so in
a large and commodious polling-booth in King-
street, Sydney. All votes polled there will be
counted "for Lyne. Another polling-booth has
been opened for the use of electors who want to
support Reid ; the address isn’t given, and if
Reid’s supporters can’t find the place, it is
their own look-out.” Moreover, the thing
was done with a rush, and many people
sent in their proxies before they really knew
what it was all about. But the opposition
demiuded a straight “ Yes ” or “No” vote, and
when this was taken, those policy-holders who
voted at all had to think about the matter and
form an opinion. The result was a much larger
vote of 200,018—and this time the extension party
was beaten by 9524. This changing of a majority
of 90,685 for extension into a majority of 9524
againstit clearly showed the perfunctory' character
of the.first vote, if it. could be called such, when
the policy-holders were" not asked to express, an
opinion on the merits of the case, -Mt only to give
their proxy to Joseph Abbott and ask no ques-
tions. That lamentably bad prophet, Sydney
Telegraph, which wildly declared that the vic-
tory of the extension party was dead certain, now
clamors that the question has not “been judged on
its merits.” It holds that a direct _ Yes or No
vote isn’t judging a question on its merits. Also
it points out t..at “not half the referendum
papers were returned,” though if that is a reason
against holding the second and direct vote to be
good, then the first or indirect one, where 51,000
fewer papers were returned, must have been very
bad indeed. The D.T.’s struggles to show the big
vote was bad because it wasnt bigger, and that
the much smaller one was quite good because it
was big enough, and that a straight ves or
“no” vote isn’t a fair way to ascertain the views
of the policy-holders, reveal it as a paper which
doesn’t know when to come in out of the rain.
It also points out indignantly that the first vote
was taken in the only way prescribed by the
Society’s Act, which isn’t true—there was noth-
ing in the Society’s Act to prevent the directors
giving the name of some person who would receive
proxies on the other side of the question, and thus
allowing the anti-extensionists the same show
which they secured for themselves. Altogether the
Telegraph’s soured and embittered walloping of
its dead horse is a most dismal spectacle.
“ A General Practice.”
The Bulletin reprints without comment S.M.
llerald’s report of a. N.S.W. Equity-Court judg-
ment of last week
A QUESTION OF COSTS.
Moss and others v. Moss and others.
His Honor gave judgment on Monday in an application
by the Permanent Trustee Co., for whom Mr. Knox, in-
structed by Messrs. Norton, Smith and Co., appeared, in
the suit of Moss and others v. Moss and others. Mr.
Lansbr Owen, instructed by Mr. L. F. Hetdon, appeared
to oppose. His Honor said the facts which were material
to the matter were not disputed. A Suit was instituted
in 1896 by the children of W. G. Moss and the children of
Mrs M'Daid for the administration of the estate of the
late’ William Moss. It involved the determination of
complicated questions arising on the construction of the
will and the validity of the will. By decree dated April,
1897, Mr. Justice Manning ordered the costs of all parties
as between solicitor and client to be paid out of the estate.
There were nine different sets of solicitors employed, and
the taxed costs payable out of the estate amounted to
£5068. Mr. Heydon acted throughout as solicitor for the
plaintiffs. Shortly before or at the institution of the
proceedings Mr. Heydon was requested by five of the
defendants to act for them, but as he could not do so he
introduced them to other solicitors, who acted for them,
Mr. Heydon at the same time arranging with such solici-
tors that he, Mr. Heydon, should receive a percentage
of their profit costs. It was admitted that moneys
were received by Mr. Heydon under this arrange-
ment, and that the existence of this arrangement
was not disclosed to the trustees of this estate, nor
to the Master, nor to the Taxing Officer. Mr. Hky-
don said he did not specifically tell any of the defen-
dants affected by the arrangement of its existence ; but
that W. G. Moss, Mrs. M'Daid, and a Mrs. Smith knew of
it. On the taxation of the bills—on further conside tion
—of the solicitors nominated by Mr. ll eydon that gentle-
man was appointed by the Master to tax down the bills,
and was the only solicitor present at the taxation, for
that purpose. The existence of the arrangement re-
ferred to had only lately become known to
the Permanent Trustee Company, which now, on
b:half of the infant plaintiffs, asked that the
money received under the arrangement by the
plaintiffs’ solicitor might be refunded to the estate, and
that the bills of costs of the solicitors mentioned might be
retaxed. The plaintiffs’solicitor disputed his liability to
refund, and contended that the Court had no jurisdiction
to order a refund except in a suit instituted for that pur-
pose. It seemed to his Honor that there were two well-
settled principles applicable to the matter. One was
that no person in a fiduciary position might use that
position to obtain a private advantage, and the other was
that no person in a fiduciary position might enter into
any engagement in which his personal interest conflicted
or might possibly conflict with his duty. The arrange-
ment entered into by the plaintiffs’ solicitor was opposed
to both those principles. It was the duty of the plaintiffs
solicitor to oppose the allowance of more than one
set of the defendants’ costs out of the estate, and
it was to his interest to allow' the costs of all defendants
solicitors nominated by him to be allowed. He did not
imagine that the conduct of the plaintiffs soucitor was
in fact influenced by his interest; but that the court
would not go into, it being sufficient if he came within
the rule. It was contended that the Court had no juris-
diction to order any refund on any application made in
this suit, but the cases in re Dangar, and Marsh v.
Joseph, seemed to him decisive authorities to the con-
trary. All sums received by the plaintiff’s solicitor,
therefore, under the arrangement he had described must
be refunded, and the bills of costs brought in by the
nominee solicitors must in any’ case be re-taxed. In fair-
ness to Mr. Heydon it should, however, be pointed out
that in making the arrangement complained of he fol-
lowed a general practice. In his affidavit of August 25,
paragraph 2, Mr. lleydon said : “ The practice is most
general. I have known it to prevail habitually through-
out my 20 years’practice in (Sydney, and it is not con-
fined in any way to minor or unprofessional practitioners,
but is commonly and generally acted on. Of my
personal know'ledge I have known it followed by a
wide range of the offices, including the very highest
in the profession.” Mr. Heydon explained how the
practice had grown up, and his statements were not con-
tradicted. That he thought was sufficient to exonerate
Mr. Heydon from moral blame, although it could not be
used to support a practice which was opposed to equit-
able principles. In his opinion the practice was in-
defensible, and he hoped it would cease for the future.
As the costs were ordered to come out of the estate, it
seemed to him the refund must be to the estate. An
inquiry muse be directed to ascertain what sums the
plaintiff’s solicitor received under the arrangement, un-
less the parties agreed on the amount. As the plaintiff s
solicitor had thought fit to fight the matter, he had no
choice but to make an order that the plaintiffs solicitor
pay the costs oE the application, and the costs incurred
by the taxation which had taken place of the hills of the
solicitors mentioned in the notice of motion. Further
consideration and further costs would be reserved.
Sydney Telegraph and Bathurst National
Advocate and sundry other organs now maintain
that N.S.W. has practically the sole right to
select the Federal capital, and that the other five
States—though they will supply among them most
of the money to build and maintain the capital,
and though it will be as much their political centre
as the political centre of N.S.W.— have no pos-
sible light to any voice in the matter. Of course,
the Federal Parliament will select the site, but
N.S.W. State Parliament can veto its selection by
refusing to surrender the place selected unless it
is one exactly suited to N.S. W.’s interests. Then,
in the ordinary course of things, the Pederal par-
liament will just go on sitting in Melbourne till
an agreement is arrived at. And if N.S.W. State
Parliament won’t fall in with the Federal Parlia-
ments selection business may continue in. Mel-
bourne indefinitely. The Telegraph’s simple
idea of a way out is this :
The Supreme Court would certainly maintain that the
Federal Government must, with all reasonab i expedition,
select a Capital site and establish a seat of Government
in N.S.W.
Unfortunately there is a large hole in this logic,
and if the D.T. sools N.S.W. to insist on its own
selection, and no other, for a Federal capital, it will
lead its followers into the usual ditch. The
Federal Government’s simple answer to the
Supreme Court would be that it had done its duty
and selected a capital site, only N.S.W.
hand over the same. The Supreme Court couldnt
order it to select the site which the JN.S.W.
State Parliament desired it to select, for
there is nothing in the Constitution to that effect.
So the Federal Parliament would stay at Axel-
bourne till the N.S.W. State Legislature changed
its mind. Even if the Supreme Court, without
any legal warrant, did order the Federal Parlia-
ment to select the site N.S.W. offered, it eouldn t
well put the hostile Parliamentary majority in
gaol for contempt if it didn’t obey. And if it did
put the members in gaol the Privy Council would
let them out again by cablegram.
♦
Constance Cl yde in reply t > “ Skotos/’ :
“ Skotos ” wants to keep women disfranchised because
there have been no geniuses among them. He might as
well allege as reasons the fact that they have fewer color-
blind persons among them. A genius is usually a Per-
son with one side of his nature much developed to the
disadvantage of his various other sides. the average
genius, especially the inky one, has generally less voting
sense than an intelligent artizan. “Skotos” wants to
keep women down because they can show no geniuses.
This present writer hereby wants to present a Bill that
the male sex be disfranchised merely because it is that
half of humanity among which those diseased specimens
are mainly found. Woman’s want of genius is the greatest
guarantee of her sense, practicality, and foresight that can
possibly be given. When once she begins produce
geniuses, other than in the sense that Mrs; Shakespeare,
sen., was responsible for William, then it will be necessary
to agitate for her exclusion from all public life. “ Men are
more logical than women.” They are—in conversation.
Men talk logic, but women act it. A man will be most
eloquent on the way to manage the Empire and the
Transvaal war, all the time he is walking about in bulging
boots and slipping out of one situation after another. A
woman plans her life ; her scheme may be very trivial,
and have chiefly to do with the annexing of somebody
called Jack. But the point is that she does not talk elo-
quently about how Jack ought to be annexed ; she.merely
goes up and annexes him—if she can. And when her in-
terests are broadened— as they are broademngever.\ daj
she will carry into public-life her peculiar idiosyncrasy of
knowing just exactly what she is able to do and then
rising up and doing it. Women’s Privileges, Am! the
amusements that “ are ordinarily supplied by the male
bread-winner ” ! Many of the privileges that are loosely
referred to as due to sex are really conferred on
social rank and wealth. Above a certain rank the
women are waited upon; below it they do the
waiting. The latter class is’much the larger. In fact,
it is the nation. The others are exceptions of no numeri-
cal importance. In the vast lower and middle classes,
when a woman gets taken to a theatre, a dance, or on a
holiday visit, it is in return for work done or favor given.
In the lower middle clas9 the girl of the house takes the
place of the kitchen slavey, with the duties of assistant
hostess added, and general dressmaking for the family
thrown in. She gets no wages, but by the splendid
chivalrv of man,” and “ because she is not able to forego
one miserable privilege of her sex,” she is graciously
taken to the theatre three times a year, the brother
nobly paying for her out of his own pocket. She is his
domestic servant, laundress and general attendant all the
year round for mere board, lodging and clothes—and a
very rare trip to the 2s. or Is. department of the melo-
drama. The “ splendid chivalry of man 1
The following, which writer found in the Kal-
goorlie (W.A.) weekly, is said to be a verbatim
quote from that most amazing Melbourne h ree-
trade organ, the Arena. Tins scribe didn t
happen to notice it in the Arena, but it is just
the sort of thing that is almost sure to be there :
The question of questions for Victorian workers, especi-
ally those blessed with marriageable daughters, is what
to do with the sweet girls. ... For the boys have taken
the matter into their own hands; have left the colon;/,
and now there are not enough here to marry the girl*.
The loss by emigration over immigration during the last
8| years consisted of 101,182 males and 299,737 female .
The young men have gone, and the young women are
condemned to lead lives of single unblessedness. We might
try polygamy, or, as a last resource, perhaps Freetrafie.
Both would be equally efficacious in getting husbands for
our girls.
This is beautiful beyond even the ordinary beauty
of the ordinary Freetrade horror. It sets forth
that about three times as many women as men
have left Victoria, and this huge departure of
women from Victoria has made men so scarce in
Victoria that women in Victoria cant get hus-
bands. The total net departure from Victoria is
alleged to be about 401,000 in 83 years. In the
same period the population of Victoria has in-
creased 40,000. Therefore there must have been
an addition of 440,000 to the population ln
years by excess of births over deaths. In other
words, there must have been about 880,000 births,
and every married woman in Victoria of what is
commonly regarded as the child-bearing age must
have had about six children in 83 years. This is the
most awful case of twins on record. It is a
pretty bad thing to be a liar, but to be an
absolutely unconvincing liar is dreadful. A/iropos,
if Freetrade is a remedy for emigration, how is it
that the United Kingdom has, since it became
Freetrade, lost nearly twice as many people by
emigration as any Protectionist country m
Europe ; that Freetrade Ireland is the only coun-
try in Europe which has lost nearly half its people
by emigration ; and that the European country
which attracts immigrants on a huge scale is not
Freetrade Britain, but Protectionist France,
which, according to Mulhall’s “ Dictionary of
Statistics,” has four times as many foreign resi-
dents as the United Kingdom? Why do people
bolt from Freetrade Britain as if it had a pesti-
lence?
♦
His Honor Judge Hoop, of Victoria, must have
been in a vile mood at tl e Sessions for October,
when he parcelled out no less than 48 years and 7
months among 11 prisoners, in sentences ranging
from 10 years to three months. After ordering
the Black Flat stickers-up 10 and seven years
apiece, his Honor proceeded to deal severely with
lesser offenders. With one man’s protestations
of innocence and assertions of his ability to prove
it if enabled to get his witnesses, the Judge was
so far impressed that he advised him to lay the
facts before the Inspector-General, but instead of
postponing sentence pending investigation he
ordered him to gaol for two years, with 24 days
solitary. To another, who pleaded for the clem-
ency usually shown to first offenders, his Honor
observed that he was a married man living in
adultery with a woman for whom he had
stolen the article, the subject of the charge.
The absurdity of a man living in sin asking for
leniency was too great for words, and he went to
gaol forthwith, to ponder over the painful fact
thathe got into trouble through stealing for his mis-
tress, and that had he been a respectable married
man he would probably have been released as a
first offender. But his Honor reached the height of
illogicality in his remarks while sentencing an old
man of 77 for indecent assault. Said Hood, J. :
“You have twice previously been convicted of
similar offences, in ’95 and ’9B. lam almost in-
clined to think these acts are due to some disease
of the brain. You are sentenced to two years'
imprisonment, and if you weie a younger man I
would have ordered a flogging. '’ Does Judge Hood
really approve of the Hogging of people whom
he is"“ almost inclined ” to regard as lunatics ?
Already Queensland is beginning to feel the teeth
of the private Railway Shindy kite. The rates
and charges on the Hrst section of the Mareeba-
Chillagoe railway have been fixed up between the
co. and the gang"that at present occupies the posi-
tion of the Government of Queensland. The
Mareeba to Chillagoe Railway Act of 1897 pro-
vides that :
The owners? may themselves from time to time fix' by
bv-laws the tolls,hares, rates and charges for the carriage
of goods, live stock, parcels and passengers, provided that
no such tolls, fares, rates or charges shall in any case ex-
ceed one and a-half times the amount payable in respect
of such goods, live stock, parcels or passengers under the
by-laws of the Commissioner in force at the date of the
passing of this Act,
At the date of the passing of this Act l Railway
rates will fall every few years as the country fills
up till they reach the nadir at which a working
profit can be made, but the co s charges can go
on serenely unaltered for ever, or till the line
ceases to be private property! Now the rates
have been fixed up, people find that they are
nearly three times the general rates charged on
the State railways, and the co., with its tongue in
its cheek, explains that they are only 1£ times the
rate charged on Cairns-Mareeba line, of which the
Mareeba-Chillagoe line is a continuation, at the
time of the passing of the Act. Just then the
rates on the Cairns-Mareeba line were special
rates, about 75 per cent, higher than the rates in
general force. This shameless swindle is per-
fectly correct and legal, apparently, and the
kanaka-ridden country finds itself saddled with
another old man of the octopus tribe, who pulls
with all his suckers at once. Private Enterprise,
indeed !
♦
That recent alteration (by Executive) of a most
important portion of Q. Education Act is worth
well considering—the more so as the Democratic
organs of Queensland, fearing to alienate an in-
fluential sectarian vote, have mostly played
dumb dog concerning the matter. The Q. hi tat e
Education Act of 1875 vvas carried in the teeth of
t.ie most bitter opposition from the clergy of
nearly every denomination. The secular prin-
ciple was expressly laid down therein as a funda-
mental law of the Q. system, and the intention of
that Act had no right to be interfered with save
bv regular Parliamentary procedure of amend-
ment. Education Minister Drake .avers that he
considers a resolution of the House (taken when
about 50 per cent, of the members were present) a
sufficient reason for so amending "the regulations
as to permit of State scholarships being .enjoyed
in- Catholic" (and other) educational institutions.
Surely a matter of this kind, involving, as men-
tioned before, a vital and fundamental principle,
is not to be settled off-hand at a little hole-and-
corner Cabinet meeting. The Queensland Govt.
The Case of Dr. Bernstein, J.P.
DISMISSAL RECOMMENDED.
The report of Judge Heydon upon the case of Dr.
Ludwik Bernstein, J.P., who was stated to have, on Oct.
23, 1899, whilst a justice of the peace and holding other
offices under the Crown, at an hotel at Lismore, in the
presence of several persons, used expressions insulting to
the Queen, was last night submitted to the Leg. Assem-
bly. Judge Heydon found that Dr. Bernstein used the
words complained of, with full knowledge of their very
insultino- character, and with an offensive intention.
In mitigation of the offence certain matters were
urged for Dr. Bernstein, and the Judge found that he
had volunteered to go to the front (South Africa),
an act for which he deserved credit; and that he had,
during a residence of 22 years in Lismore, been an active,
public-spirited, and useful citizen, and elected by his fel-
low-citizens to many positions, including a surgeon-cap-
taincy in the volunteers. But a man who was generously
treated bv a community to which he came as a stranger,
and who took the oath of allegiance, came under pecu-
liar obligations of gratitude and consideration for the
feelings of those about him. “ Finding,” Judge Heydon
continues, “ that Dr. Bernstein did, after taking the
oath of allegiance, and while holding positions m the
service of the State, use language in the highest
degree insulting to the head of the State, and that
he used it wilfully, and with an insulting intention,
the question arises, what action should be taken ■ • • •
This matter has obtained great publicity, and has given
grave scandal. The feelings of the residents and the
magistracy of the district have been aroused. Dr. Bern-
stein, though at first in a letter to the Chief Secretary he
expressed regret for what he had done, never did so pub-
licly. On the contrary, he defended himself. ... It
appears to me impossible, under all the circumstances, to
treat the charge, now that it has been found to have been
fully proved, as a matter of small importance. With the
greatest regret, therefore, considering Dr. Bernstein s
many good qualities and his excellent record of public
work, I feel compelled to recommend that he be removed
from the service of the State, whose head he has wilfully
insulted, and dismissed from his appointments under the
Crown.” —S.M. Herald.
Good people all where'er ye be,
Arise and curse this late J.P.
If you for bitter words are lost
Just damn him —never mind the cost!
There’s a point where Scoundreldom
Run mad, Satanic may become.
That point is reached, that base decree,
By Dr. Bernstein— late J.P
His record —and the villain laughs
Is not composed of epitaphs.
For two-and-twenty years lie wrought
Amongst a people void of thought.
With pills and potions, all in vain,
He cleared the turgid local brain,
And made his patients bear witli ease
Their only kind of Height's Disease.
He brought through Birth’s mysterious gate
The embryonic magistrate.
He was a useful citizen,
Approved by all his fellow men.
No man more freely filled the trump
Of Fame about the Lismore pump.
No man on bridges was more free
And fresh and eloquent than he.
'Tis less than nothing, it appears,
This tale of two-and-twenty years.
He used one night in flippant in >od
Some words of black ingratitude.
He said our Great Immortal Queen
Was not as young as she had been,
He also said the Boers had
Some serious reasons to feel mad.
Judge Heydon sat upon the case,
And said it was a dire disgrace.
The crime so much did him appal
He felt hivisdf a criminal.
And he impluxWthat ermined elf —
The name of God was name of Guelph i
And said it was a trouble great
To him to sack a magistrate.
Yet right was right, and fact was fact,
And Dr. Bernstein must be sacked.
His Government appointments he
Would have to lose immediately.
Judge Heydon is too mild and good
To deal with Traitors as he should.
Could he no racks or thumbscrews get
Or find no noisome oubliette?
Can Lismore show no patriots keen
To rig a home-made guillotine ?
Is there no rope ? Is there no tar ?
Or have we grown particular ?
Is there no fire to but'a with glee
This fiend—at least in effigy?
Of loyalty in vain ye prate
Oil Lismore folk degenerate !
Had ye but felt as ye should feel
He would be broken on a wheel.
Judge Heydon even tried to spare
This monster with a record fair.
Good people all, where’er ye be,
Arise and curse this late J.P, .


The EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For particulars, refer to
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINE, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G. McCOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managers for Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia,
HEUDON SPA WATE
A NATURAL
MINERAL WATLSm'-A-;
292
V V
h
Sulphide Corporation
” ** LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital : £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead, Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought-^*
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Targe Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A. E. SAVAGE,
Manaohr.
CIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Agents for Australia.
has just as much right to pay directly the salaries
of teachers in denominational schools as it has to
pay them indirectly by a, system of scholarship
subsidies. The proceeding was an eminently
crooked one and deserving of the strongest repro-
bation. Let the Philpocracy test the feeling of
Queenslanders on the matter of religious educa-
tion in State schools by referendum ; if they
secure a favorable verdict from the electors let
them introduce an Amending Act; and, above
all, let them avoid this miserable juggling in
camera with the rightful law of the land.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
[“ Hedda Gabler."
Her Majesty’s -f “ School for Scandal.”
1.“ Queen Elizabeth.”
Criterion “ Robbery Under Arms.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Grand Opera Season.
Her Majesty’s “ The Rose of Persia.”
Theatre Royal “ The Absent-Minded Beggar.”
Bwou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Exhibition Oval Fitzgerald’s Circus.
Exhibition Building. .. The Aquarium.
Flindbrs-Street Wirth’s Circus.
“ Robbery Under Arms ” revived at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday with the usual
amount of shooting, one man in his excitement
fatally wounding a tree, which fell to the earth,
turning up its root to the audience in a pathetic
manner. As usual, almost every act ends with
the bushrangers covering the policemen with
their revolvers. These latter, during a long course
of bushranger-hunting, evidently never remember
to go into the fray with their weapons to hand.
Several horses meander about the stage, or are
introduced to the audience as my dear old Rain-
bow, or something to that effect, whereupon the
audience cheers tremendously. For the rest
“Robbery Under Arms” continues to be the
good old story of the persecuted robbers, who,
when they were caught and prevented from rob-
bing any more, nobly repented, and resolved not
to rob any more. Alfred Dampier takes his old
part of the high-minded bushranger who never
Steals from the poor, probably because the poor
man hasn’t anything worth stealing, while J ohn
Bruce is natural as the lower-class respectable
type of forest robber. Miss Katherine Russell
is excellent as the bad woman, who has remorse
after she has done the mischief, while a good word
may be said for Howard Smith as Warn gal.
** * *
To-night (Thursday) “ Hedda Gabler,” by
that long-haired Polar-bear person, Henrik Ibsen,
is to make its first Sydney appearance at Her
Majesty’s. “Hedda” is announced for two nights
only, which, for the first production of a much-
advertised drama by the longest-haired dramatist
in Christendom, is something unusual. Evidently
Williamson has his own hidden opinion about the
Man with the Mane, and regards him as good for
a brief sprint, but devoid of staying power. Any-
how, Ibsen isn’t going to be allowed to accumu-
late on the premises. “School for Scandal”
starts on Saturday, and fills three nights and a
matinee, and “Queen Elizabeth” begins to
perish miserably on the floor on Wednesday. In
the meantime Floria Tosea is still addressing her
Plimmer on the cold battlements of Rome at day-
break, and urging his dead body to get up and fly
for its life, and Plimmer doesn’t get up worth
** # *
Miss Lottie Collins’ kangaroo-like bound-
ings continue to arouse enthusiasm at Sydney
Tivoli, though her most original performance, the
one most calculated to set her apart from the
ruck, is that of the “Coalman’s Wife.” Miss
Jessie Williams combines dancing and gymnastics
in the fashion that is approved of in these athletic
days, while Miss Tillie Rochester’s voice deserves
better than to be thrown away on the worn-
out coon song, wherein the coon’s mamma is con-
tinually requesting her honey babe to sleep.
The curious point about the Rickards show is that
when one great star breaks through the gloom
numerous smaller stars break through also, where-
as if these latter were judiciously saved for the
dull nights, the Tivoli would show a good
average, instead of passing through weeks of
dreariness as it frequently does. At present
under the good influence of Kangaroo Lottie, the
performance shines from eight till half-past ten,
except for one shouting lady who is dressed like a
bee and is likewise a fly in the ointment.
** * *
The above few remarks represent all the
show business there is in Sydney this week. The
Royal, Palace, and Lyceum are closed ; the man
with the strange collection of diseased heads and
the drunkard’s liver on a plate left some time ago;
and business is dull because some people are at
the Cup, and the rest are pretending to be there
but are really in concealment at Newtown.
*m * *
At Melb. Princess’s the course of grand
opera runs smooth, save for occasional jolts in
the performance. ' Last week the “Faust’’cast
was varied interestingly. One night Salvi, Miss
Lorraine and Miss Janson replaced the previous
Faust, Marguerite and Siebel, with the result that
the opera looked more important. Miss Cecilie
Lorraine is not a timid, little, shrinking Marguerite
of the appealsome pattern that Miss Coomber
presented. In point of fact, the bonnie blonde
lady is rather the sort of Margy who lets her hat
blow off at a picnic and sends three young men to
fish it out of the creek, but she sang much of the
music charmingly and put some nice bits of
color into the al fresco flirtation in the
second act. Salvi, as Faust, was an all-
round triumph compared with the other tenor.
Also, the Devil had an improvement forced upon
him on this occasion. He fell suddenly ill before
the curtain went up, and the substitute Devil in
the first act (Gilbert King) wore a beard, so when
the original fiend came along and took up the
running, he wore hair on his face for the first time,
and was all the wickeder and stronger for the
ohange. There’s a lot of evil suggestion in a
“goatee,” seemingly. During the week Madame
Slapoffski appeared as Leonora and Marguerite,
and the local press sang her praises somewhat too
sweetly. Madame Slapoffski has not too sweet a
voice herself. Moreover she drags the music in
her effort to put expression into her singing, some
of which expression is ultra-dramatic. But, all
things considered, the variations in the “Faust ”
cast were good for the opera season.
• • • •
“Carmen,” on Saturday, had pleasant
surprises in some places and disappointments in
others. Salvi, as Don Jose, proved himself a
really good actor. To be a good actor with a full
Italian tenor voice that doesn’t go wrong every
time the weather changes is to command the
respect of this country. Moreover, Salvi is not
much too plump for the character of a love-struck
sergeant. He looks equal to the task of winning
Carmen from his superior officer, and in all
respects he fills the bill. Miss Janson, the excellent
Azucena of “II Trovatore” lacks the first essential
for Carmen. She doesn’t give an even half-con-
vincing picture of the irresistible inan-killer. The
public, who look for a tuneful, fascinating girl,
rather than a solid contralto vocalist in this part,
will not be enthusiastic over Miss Janson. Tall
Max Eugene, as the Toreador, suggests the Lord
Mayor’s coachman masquerading in fancy dress.
An artful little beard or a moustache might modify
the suggestion considerably as regards his face,
but nothing could make such a heavy-weight bari-
tone look likely to earn renown by dodging
infuriated bulls in the arena. He’d be disem-
bowelled at his first bulky meeting with the
four-legged beef. Still, there is a tremendousness
about Max Eugene which would commend him to
the affections of a Carmen. Little Miss Lilian
Coomber is a likeable Michaela, and among the
minor characters whose acting in this opera is of
greater business importance than their singing,
the two smugglers are particularly well presented
by Gilbert King and our old friend Charles Leu-
mane. The chorus and the staging score heavily.
If there is any fault to find with the orchestra,
under the clever management of Slapoffski, it is
in the tone of some of the new brass instruments.
On Thursday of this week “ Lohengrin ” will be
produced, for the first time in Melbourne since
the era of manager Musgrove’s late uncle, W. S.
Lyster.
* * # *
J. C. Williamson has now fulfilled his
promise of a commanding frontage for Her
Majesty’s (Melb.). The old-time Alexandra
Theatre, where odours of fried fish used to steal
in gently at the end of the first act and fight for
supremacy with the perfume of steak and onions,
was made bright six months ago. On Saturday
the house was born again, with new entrance
lobbies and a fine suite of ante-rooms. The fish-
shops and steak-emporiums are gone for ever, and
all the comforts of an airy show-place have been
provided in their stead. Great is the goodness of
theatrical competition. One of these days, per-
haps, somebody will devote a few thousand
pounds to the glory of the ancient Royal, and will
grow rich by the enterprise.
* • * *
“ The Rose of Persia,” which is the re-
opening bill at Her Majesty’s, received its bap-
tism of praise in The Bulletin three months ago.
Arthur Sullivan has put some of his daintiest
music into the score; music that will still be worth
hearing when its freshness has departed. Not all
the airs are new in spirit. Reminders of
“ Mikado” crop up among the barbaric splendour
of the Persian potentate, but, then, nobody objects
to a mingling of Sullivan past with Sullivan
present, any more than they object to the Gil-
bertian character of Capt. Basil Hood’s libretto.
Hood is not Gilbert, but his imitation of Gilbert
on “Mikado” lines has more merit than the
average comic-opera story. “The Rose of
Persia ” has nothing much the matter with it as a
musical story. Its fault is a negative one. The
characters lack distinction. They are too like the
people who populate pantomimes.
* * • *
Lauri, as the husband of 25 wives and a
general benefactor of his kind, is the main joke in
the narrative. He gets drunk on bhang, and
cheeks the Sultan, who garbs him in a little brief
authority, and lets him run the kingdom in his
bhangful mind until the humor of the situation is
fairly exhausted. The other characters, including
Sultan Brownlow, are very subordinate to
Lauri. The men offer rather too many Persian
greetings to one another, and the ladies excite no
particular interest at the first time of seeing them,
anyhow. “ Rose of Persia ” owes its success to a
general effectiveness in the production—flowing
melody, fine dresses, strong chorus, and a first-
class ballet. The show is always good, and often
gorgeous.
* * * *
At the Royal they are winding up the
Anderson season with a wildly preposterous
drama of the “ Missing Will ” class. The one
novel circumstance in this deplorable horror is a
casual maniac who lost his reason through “ the
treacherie of a woman together with socialistic
tendencies,” it appears, and in the course of his
howling madness this unfortunate Republican
tries to decapitate the heroine with a toy guillo-
tine which works by steam. “ The World’s Ver-
dict ” is either the positively worst, or the worst
but one, drama on record at the Royal. Friday
will bring it to an unhonored end.
* # * *
On Saturday, the long-looked-for Bland
Holt will return to the Royal, with the full
strength of his forces. “The Absent-Minded
Beggar” is the first drama in Bland’s plan of cam-
paign, and, from casual notes of expectation that
are uttered by citizens in the street, tram and
railway carriage, The Bulletin anticipates a
huge welcome for the warlike fiction aforesaid.
** * *
A bare mention of the fact that Rickards’s
Bijou is open as usual will suffice for the present
week. The Derby and Cup are drawing nigh and
when Melbourne gets horse on its brain, the house
of Rickards turns money away every evening.
The other circus (Wirth’s) starts in Flinders-street
next Saturday (3rd) and sundry other things inci-
dental to Cup week are happening at various
places in the Melbourne district.
** * *
Fitzgeralds’ Circus, which drew an enor-
mous crowd on its opening night (Sat., Oct. 27th),
has pitched its tents this year on the soft green
grass of the Exhibition Oval. Rhodesia, the
light-fingered juggleress, deals deftly and daintily
with billiard-balls, &c., and looks especially
womanly , and domesticated twirling and tid-
dley-winking piles of plates. Madame An-
tonio, the sensational high-flyer who falls
backwards from the roof and somersaults
from giddy heights, is a living proof that
if a lady feels she could relish fire-brigade
practice her sex in itself need not bar her from
her goal. The Jandaschevskys’ “Matador”
dance seems rather slow and stately, considered
as an imitation of adventures with a goaded mad-
dened bull. But Clown Guillaume’s comic bull-
fight with trick dog “Black” is really funny.
“ Black ” disguised as a pigmy bull, with absurd
little horns, rushes between the toreadors’ legs,
upsets them like ninepins, rampages like an in-
sane billy-goat, and scuds from the ring ere
laughing spectators have seen enouarh of him.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Some notable remarks by Premier Seddon on
the second reading of the Maoriland Consols Bill
“ I look forward to the time, and I do not think it will
be very far hence, when the Government will be able to
use State paper for paying State claims. . . . We are
yearly sending out of the province a large sum to pay
interest. No doubt there is a large sum of money in the
province available, but there is no machinery to get at it.”
There is only one possible answer to that; the Govern-
ment should provide the machinery. In the last ten
years there has never been less than £2,500,000 in gold
lying idle in the Maoriland banks. That is the money
that is not in circulation. The country wants gold to
pay external liabilities, but this is not wanted to pay
external liabilities. It is the idle and unprofitable surplus.
For internal purposes £500,000 in gold and £2,000,000 in
guaranteed State notes would answer quite as well; the
notes would lie idly in the banks’ cellars quite as capably
as the gold does. And that £2,000,000 which is lying in
the banks quite uselessly is costing Maoriland £70,000
a year. It has cost £700,000 in the last 10
years; £1,400,000 in the last 20 years. All that
money has been paid for the mere satisfaction of knowing
that the gold is there, but never seeing it, nor using it,
nor handling it. For if the Maoriland Government
adopted the Canadian banking system, and compulsorily
replaced £2,000,000 of the gold reserves with State paper,
and made it compulsory for all banks to hold a fixed pro-
portion of their cash reserves in State paper, then it could
have paid off £2.000,000 of the public debt with the pro-
ceeds and saved £70,000 a year in interest. By not doing
so the existence of these unused reserves does cost Maori-
land, quite uselessly, £70,000 a year. It is a ridiculous
sum to waste.
• • * •
The National Bank of Australasia (Melbourne)
shows a considerable improvement for the half-year to
30th September, 1900, and pays a 3 per cent, dividend to
ordinary shareholders (last div. on ordinary shares was
2* per cent, in September, 1894). Some recent results are
as follows: —
Reserves at
Sept., 1895 £109,558
Profits. Dividends, Stc.
March, 1896 10,523 5 % (Preference) £7644*
Written off .. 100,000
£107,644*
Sept., 1896 11,706 6 per cent. (Preference) 76444
March, 1897 14,712 6 „ ( „ ) 76444
Sept., 1897 18,275 5 „ ( „ ) 7644*
March, 1898 15,472
Forfeited Capital.
» » 45,456 6 „ ( „ ) 7644*
Profits.
Sept., 1898 17,602 5 „ ( „ ) 76444
March, 1899 12,324 6 „ ( „ ) 76444
Sept., 1899 19,246 6 „ ( „ ) 76444
March, 1900 22,152
Forfeited Capital.
Written off .. £68.000
4,978 5 % (Preference) 7641*
75,644*
Profits.
Sept., 1900 27,065 3 % (Ordinary) £17,887
• 5 % (Preference) 7,644*
25,531*
Reserves, 30th September, 1900 66,737
£329,069 £329,069
The National Bank has thus reserves amounting to
£66,737 (reserve fund, £55,000, and undivided profit,
£11,737). The earnings for last half-year are at the rate of
£3 12s. 3d. per cent, per annum on capital, or £3 9s. Bd.
per cent, per annum on the capital and reserve-fund.
The National Bank’s earnings, despite the recent exten-
sive writing down of capital and the relief obtained by
the repayment of the expensive 4* per cent, reconstructed
deposits, are still only moderate, and compare as follows
with those of its principal local rival, the Bank of Vic-
toria :
National. Victoria.
Half-year’s profits .. ..£27,065 £28,554
Total reserves 66,737 129,605
Dividend (preference shares) 5 p.c. 5 p.c.
~ (.ordinary shares) 3 ~ 21 ~
Surplus after paying dividend £1,534 £4,869
Earnings on capital .. ..£3 12/3 p.c. £3 17/4 p.c.
The National Bank has undoubtedly a splendid
business. Its deposits now amount to about £6,000,000
and the reserve of cash and liquid securities (£3,154,323)
is equal to over 40 per cent, on all liabilities to the public ;
which is something far beyond the average in the way of
solidity. Included in this sum is £736,000 worth of State
and municipal securities. But there is a great deal to do
yet in the way of rebuilding the lost reserves, and it
would probably have been better if the management had
started its dividend on ordinary shares at 21 per cent, and
left a wider margin with which to strengthen the
institution.
* * * *
The United Insurance Co. (Sydney) shows
better results for the year ended 30th September, 1900,
than for any of the three immediately preceding. The
year’s doings compare with those of seven previous years
as follows :
Total Reserves
Profits. at Dividends,
each date.
1892 .. £66,505
1893 .. £17,389 75,366 12* per'cent. = £8,528
1894 .. 22,053 88,891 121 „ = 8,528
1895 .. 10,352 90,715 121 „ = 8,528
1896 .. 11,466 93,653 121 = 8,528
1897 „ 9,951 95,076 12* „ = 8,528
1898 .. 3,722 90,270 121 „ = 8,528
1899 .. 7,302 94,161 5 „ 3,411
1900 .. 10,267 97,605 10 „ = 6,823
£92,502 £61,402
Reserves have thus increased during the past eight years
by £31,100. Of this, however, £19,000 is a reserve for
depreciation of investments, and seeing that the invest-
ments (nominally worth £149,228) only returned last year
£3561, equal to £2 7s. Bd. per cent, on their nominal
value, it is quite probable £lO,OOO is all required to cover
depreciation which has actually taken place’, in which
case the real reserves would stand at £87,606. Even on
this basis, however, the United is a very strong and pro-
gressive institution, and the regularity with which it
earns its big dividend shows good management.
• * * *
St. Joseph’s Investment and Building Society
(Sydney) issues its balance-sheet for year ended 30th Sep-
tember, 1900. This concern suspended in 1892, and in
1895 it made an arrangement with its depositors by which
they agreed to accept 3 per cent, interest. Deposits are
paid off by instalments as cash becomes available. St.
Joseph’s wrote off £42,880 of capital in 1895, reducing it to
£28,588, at which figure it now stands. The record of the
last three years is as follows :
Balance.
Sept., 1897 .. £377
Profits.
„ 1898 .. 3,385 Written off Properties .. £3,500
„ 1899 .. 2,617 „ „ .. 2,600
„ 1900 .. 2,985 „ „ .. 3,000
Balance .... 264
£9,364 £9,364
Fixed deposits (that top-heavy mass of deposits which
first brought St. Joseph’s to grief) were £285,000 in 1892 ;
£180,541 in 1895 ; £110,891 in 1898 ; £105,438 in 1899, and
they are now only £98,627. The reduction is therefore
very large and continuous.
For the last three years the income of St.
Joseph’s Investment and Building Society has shown the
following return on the paper value of its total assets —
interest-bearing and otherwise :
1898 .. ..£6 2 6 percent.
1899 .. .. 5 10 11 „
1900 .. .. 5 16 9
These are not very bad returns as things go nowadays,
and, unless there is some cause for despondency which
doesn’t appear in the accounts, it is difficult to under-
stand why the reports are written in quite such a de-
pressed frame of mind. The Langridge Building Society of
Melbourne, which realises about £4 15s. 6d. on the alleged
net value of its investments (the value after deduction of
the depreciation fund) has proudly resumed the payment
of dividends, and congratulates itself on being fairly over
its difficulties. Undoubtedly there is still depreciation to
be provided for, and the persistent writing down of
securities by the St. Joseph’s management is a wise and
most commendable proceeding. Still, if the alleged in-
come is all cash actually received, and not to any great
extent merely interest charged against advances without
any certainty that the said interest will be collected, the
institution should be reasonably near to the end of its
difficulties, provided no new slump sets in.
* * • •
The Mutual Fire Insurance Co. of Tasmania,
now 26 years old, only commenced last year to publish
income and expenditure accounts, so it is only possible
to make a detailed comparison of its progress for two
years:—
Pi-nfifa Total Reserve Dividends and
at each Date. Dividend Tax.
1898 .. .. £17,417
1899 .. £4,978 .. 19,639 7 per cent. = £2,756
1900 .. 4,403 .. 21,286 7 per cent. = 2,756
The profit for 1900 as shown above includes a mysterious
and unexplained addition to the balance at credit of con-
tingency fund, which seems to have been growing un-
accountably in the night. The reserves include reserve
fund, £12,000 ; contingency fund, £3073; re-insurance
reserve, £2392; and undivided profit balance, £3821.
Paid-up capital is £37,500. The income from invest-
ments (£2902) is sufficient by itself to pay
a 7 per cent, dividend, which is a rather unusual
state of affairs, and the only visible bad feature in the
case is that the business, which was always of a small but
remarkably safe character, appears, while still remaining
safe, to be growing still smaller. The whole premium
income for year ended 30th September, 1900, was £4785,
so the profit nearly amounted to the whole premiums,
interest earnings being almost sufficient to cover losses
and expenses
* * * *
Westralia, on present appearances, will have to
find £5,000,000 within the next 15 or 18 months to keep
some big unfinished public works going, and to settle the
temporary loans with which Bigjohn staved off the evil
day. These short-dated loans were floated at high inte-
rest, because things were bad, and it seems likely that
they will fall due when things are worse. When Forrest
throws up the weary sponge in a few months, as he pro-
mises to do, he will leave a fearsome load for his suc-
cessor.


wS
«i t.
w A.
“DRIHKIT ,
FOR HEJU.TH/
Andyou Derive
Pujsm
OMIT L
fORpIEASURE
ttoYou Acquire,
Health
&
ZETZ-SPA Proprietary Limited
Sydney
yebaeeof
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
HAYY AND WAR OFFICE-
nr
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros, & Co„ Ltd, Liverpool. Agents; M. Ratty & Co,, Sydney.
The Insurance Observer, London, July 13th,
1900 : “In regard to its investments the Colonial Mutua'
Society appears to have been most fortunate, or else it ■
affairs have been managed with extra ability.”*
• • * •
The Austral Otis Engineering Co. have just
completed a concentrating test on the Wilfley Table
installed at their South Melbourne works of a parcel o
crushed ore representing the second product from the
concentrating mill at the Conrad mine, owned by Mr. J.
Howell, which hitherto has all been stacked on the mm ■
waiting the advent of a machine that would profitably
treat it without re-crushing. The result of the Wilfle\
test is a high-grade concentrate, and tailingwaste show -
ing very little values, and the Otis Co. have despatched
the tables for erection on the mine.*
• * * •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining reqm
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebratt (
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; als
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills
Air Compressors, etc., etc.*
Since the start of the Broken Hill Proprietary’s
new 5000-ton mill, most of the Barrier mines have beer
engaged in remodelling their concentrating plants on up
to-date lines, and wisely show a preference for machin •>
which have proved most successful on the difficult fin: >
and slimes. The machines that can claim this distinction
are the “Luhrig” Vanners, as supplied by Messrs. W. A
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne. The South’s new mill wi l
include a dozen or so, and the Junction Co. has also de
cided to erect a number of Luhrig Vanners as an impor-
tant adjunct to its large plant. Other mines would dn
well to follow this good example.*
* * * *
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Building.',
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Min
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74-
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
y * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option or
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold nr
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.* m
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that th
o-reat demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase Of manufacturing facilities at his foot serai
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twent v
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and fauec (
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, Hunting, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops of tank-,
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work-’
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can he ob-
tained of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of ail
mining requisites, pric c Is. 3d. post free. *
The Bill abolishing imprisonment for debt has
now passed both Houses of M. L. Parliament; only in case'
of contract-penalties or anything in the nature of fran
dulent debt can a debtor be “jugged” in future. Much
rejoicing of the Micawbers, and wailing and rending of
garments among the usurers.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38°.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 81°/.
Hy. fi^arkwald
178 William-street
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 6$ Currie-st., Adel.; V Eagle-street,
Brisb.; Lambton Quay , Wellington, N.Z.;
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide cf Potassium (08/100 per cent,
pure), Bleaching: Powder, Mining Requisites,
Candles, etc.
The Assets Purchase and Realisation 00. (Mel-
bourne) :
Gross
Earnings.
Losses to 13/8/’96 .. £11,336
August, 1897.. £lB3 Expenses .. £1,017
Written off .. 3,755
4,772
„ 1898.. 2 Expenses .. £344
Written off .. 25,524
25,868
„ 1899.. 37 Expenses .. £421
Written off .. 2,505
2,926
„ 1900.. 354 Expenses ... 458
Losses to
13/8/1900.. 44,784
£45,360 £45,360
As a set-off the Assets Purchase and Realisation Co. has
written-off £13,339 of forfeited share capital, and has
made a composition by which it has got rid of £18,228 of
its liabilities. This reduces the accumulated loss from
£44,784 to £13,217, and the situation is as follows :
Liabilities. Assets.
Capital .. £22,562 Various Properties
I,ess Losses .. 13,217 at nominal or book
value ... .. £13,164
£9,345
Mortgage.. _ 3,819
£13,164 £13,164
On paper there should be something left for the share-
holders and no necessity for further calls, though book
values are very uncertain. The fact that the earnings
last year got almost within gunshot of the expenses is
encouraging, in a way. Things certainly look much
better than they did in ’9B, when the gross income was
£2 and working expenses £344. Two pounds is a depress-
ing sum for any company to earn in twelve months.
* * * *
Tooth and 00., Limited, brewers (Sydney),
showed a gross profit of £38,951 for the half-year ended
30th September, 1900, and after deducting £2500 for
depreciation of plant, the net profit was £36,451. The
usual 7 per cent, dividend absorbed £31,500, and £5OOO
was carried to a reserve for equalisation of dividends.
Tooth and Co.’s is one of the rare concerns which has no
mortgage, lien, overdraft, or debenture liability weighing
it down. The paid-up capital is £900,000, and total re-
serves are now £115,795, of which £99,349 is separately
invested in State and other securities.
* * * *
The Wellington (Maoriland) Building and In-
vestment 00. finished its 14th year on 30th June, 1900. It
is a steady-going and generally prosperous affair, and its
progress is shown by the following summary of the results
of the last five years
Profits. Reserve 0 Dividends.
June, 1896 .. £3,351 £1,250' 9 p.c. = £1,732
1897 .. 2,931 1,000 9 „ = 1,790
1898 .. 2,730 1,000 9 „ = 1,800
„ 1899 .. 2,909
New Share
Premiums.
3,750 4,750 9 „ = 2,115
Profits.
„ 1900 .. 3,444 1,000 9 „ = 2,469
£19,115 £9,000 £9,906
Total reserves at June, 1895, were £5347 (reserve fund,
£5250 ; and undivided profit, £97). They are now £14,556
(reserve fund, £14,250, and undivided profit, £306), so
the increase in five years amounts to £9209, though
only £5459 of this is actual trading profit. The capital is
only £27,497, so reserves are very large in proportion.
But the Wellington Building and Investment Co. carries
a very heavy load of deposits (£91,641, or nearly 2) times
the shareholders’ funds); and, as it has £119,034 invested
in mortgages, it might be greatly embarrassed if bad
times fell on Wellington, and heavy withdrawals set in.
A curious feature is a steadily-growing item among the
agse ts—“ Investment by Company, £8652.” For all the
information supplied this amount might be State securities,
or dredging shares, or Tattersall’s sweep-tickets, or almost
anything. ,
“War God”: (1) Personally, writer wouldn’t
care to touch it. (2) Debentures are a written engage-
ment by a co. to pay certain amounts at a certain time,
with interest (payable yearly or half-yearly) at a certain
rate. They are a debt secured on the paid and callable
capital and on all the assets.
r * * * *
Considering its size and the value of its output
White Cliffs opal field is the most unscientifically-worked
district in N.S.W. Most of the best country was taken
up under mineral-lease. The lessees let small blocks on
tribute. A tributor merely sinks a pot hole and gouges
out in various directions at different levels reputed to be
opal-bearing. There is no timbering either of shafts
(except in very rare cases) or of drives. Fortunately it is
remarkably good standing ground, and so accidents have
been very rare ; but, as in most soft country, the work-
ings don’t improve with age, and subsidences are bound
to be numerous in the future. The first on a big scale has
just occurred ; luckily nobody was underneath at the time.
But “Accident at White Cliffs” is going to be a com-
moner newspaper heading than it has been hitherto.
* * * *
After a fearful slump in the opal market, last-
ing six months or more, White Cliffs reports a better
demand again for the gem. *
R. N. Thomas, manager of the Junction North,
leaves the mine at the end of the year, or earlier. It is a
good while since the public had confidence in either mine
or stock, and this change will not tend to improve matters
in this respect.
* * * *
One after the other the B.H. Prop., which in
the dull days pegged out most of the abandoned shows
round Broken Hill, lets out the most promising blocks to
speculators for flotation. The Victoria Cross co., having
been put on its feet after a big struggle, the White Lead
will now be tried. The question is whether the B.H.
lode continues even after the outcrop disappears ; if it
does—and there is certainly ore in irregular bodies on the
flat country beyond the outcrop—the White Lead should
get it.
b * • • •
Silver has passed the half-crown and lead is a
rattling price ; and that is probably why there is more
dissatisfaction among the Broken Hill mining em-
ployes than for years past. The men at the smelting
works in S.A. are grumbling most; over 600 of them have
asked the B.H. Prop, for an all-round rise of a shilling a
shift. But they have no organisation to back them. Port
Pirie, where most of the smelting is done, was never an
Eden ; but since the furnaces were built there it has
become about the most unwholesome and uncomfortable
spot to live in in all Australia. South Australia wasn’t
happy till it got the smelting business ; and now it has
got it it permits workmen and people to he poisoned with-
out an attempt at the regulation upon which, for some
years before the furnaces were shifted from Broken Hill,
N.S.W. Health Department insisted.
» « * *
It will not surprise readers of a recent par.
printed here to learn that the zinc works at Broken
Hill have stopped. Reasons given are the big rise
in ocean freights (all the product had to be shipped
to Europe to be smelted, &c.) and the bigger rise in the
price of coke —and these refractory ores use up a great
lot of fuel. The only surprising thing about the official
announcement is that the Australian Metal Co., which
was always understood to be simply an offshoot from the
German co. dealing in sulphides, sets out that it has been
“ managing the works for a foreign syndicate. It is
claimed that, though the process already adopted has
been “ a great technical success of late, two new mag-
netic separators, the co.’s own property, are to be further
experimented with. , , *
Block 14 shuts down one of its five smelting
furnaces at Port Adelaide, and explains that its auction is
due to the rise in the coke-market, and the lately in-
creased rail-freights. Block 14 is a low grade mine ;
moreover, it has led the way in experiments on refrac-
tory sulphides and mill products. The shutting-down of
a furnace does not mean the reduction of profits by a
fifth; it only means that a quantity of stuff "'hjcri for-
merly just paid exs. will no longer be treated. This ore
as a rule requires more labor than the less refractory stuff,
hence more workmen are affected by the stopping of the
treatment of this particular ore than of the richest and
best ore in the mine. The work-people are, therefore,
more interested than the shareholders are in reducing
freight charges low enough to allow the stuff to be
worked without loss. The S.A. Govt, and the Laborites
who keep it in office see, however, that the great bulk of
the B.H. ore carried can very well afford to pay the in-
creased freight; and so they naturally hesitate to approve
of an all-round reduction. A sliding scale is badly
needed.
* * * *
B.H. Junction shareholders have not yet paid
the full penalty for rooting out the rich sulphides so fast
four years ago that they had not time to fill up the holes
they made. Every part of the main workings seems to
have been so weakened by the collapse which followed
that local “ slides ” are constantly occurring. The latest,
in mid-October, is the most serious for 12 or 18 months.
And it comes, too, just when the co. thought it was
firmly on its feet again. t
Though the B.H. Prop, has been silenced by
concessions, other B.H. co’s will continue-the fight against
B H. Water Supplv monopoly. The Sulphide Corpora-
tion, South, and Block 14 are openly hostile, and have
undertaken to guarantee a certain minimum consumption
from anv Govt, reservoir at 3s. 6d. per 1000 gal. ihe
total amount guaranteed in this way would more than
pay estimated working expenses and interest on esti-
mated capital cost of the Umberumberka scheme. It is
doubtful, though, whether the latter is big enough ; the
Works Committee is now inquiring. Broken Hill mining
now depends absolutely on ore-concentration ; ore-con-
centration depends absolutely on water ; and for water
B.H. depends absolutely on the one fast-silting-up dam
across a single creek, which runs for an hour or two only
after heavy rain. Nothing is surer, therefore, than that
a second scheme must come. Tired of waiting for the
people to agitate for it, the mining co’s are now engineer-
ing the movement for a Govt, supply.
s * * * *
The sulphide problem solved once more. No
doubt about it this time. Says Sydney!). T: “ Mr. R. J.
Horne of Gulf Creek, via Barraba, N.S.W., writes . I
have thoroughly solved the zinc problem, the new process
extracting the zinc in 15min. and leaving the other metals
as a residuum. The patent, which has to be registered
throughout the world by myself and partner, Mr. W.
Trewenack, of Gulf Creek, has been sold to a wealthy
Corporation for a large sum. It will completely revolu-
tionise the process at present in use, being original, cheap
and simple—the great desideratum of modern metal-
lurgy.’ ” If Trewenack endorses this yarn there may be
something in it. + *
Girilambone : Some more tall newspaper talk
and managerial gas about the Broker’s Joy. ai y
assays give an average of 5 per cent, copper. On Friday
the black ore lode was struck, and gave nearly 10 per-
cent. copper. Between the black ore zone and some other
zone there is a 13ft. 6in. body, the whole of which will
average from 5 to 6 per cent, copper.’ The barren
winze has been found to be sunk under the ore, and the
manager is of opinion that the body of sulphide ore is the
same as that at the back of the winze, and they will have
150 ft. of hacks in consequence. The S.E. drive has gone
74ft in ore, and the face looks as well as ever. Samples
taken from the trucks gave an average of 5 per cent,
copper.” It is long since the furnaces did any smelting,
and, unfortunately, newspapers’ and ma - . -ors reports
produce no copper. Seeing that the plant h is been shut
down for about a year it would be a fair thing for . fc! ' e
Girilambone management to shut up until it is re-started.
* * * *
Turon Dredge —the favorite of the Sabbath
tipster. “ It is from No. 1 dredge, however, that the big
return is anticipated and between this and Christmas we
hope to find the present record of 750 z. lowered more
than once.” Yes—and it hasn’t been long about it. It
was lowered this last week to 20oz. for 113 hours work,
the total output for the two dredges for the week being
only 580 z. —“ There is nothing in the mining list offering
such inducements to purchasers as Turon shares at about
30s. and were it not for the peculiar stagnation of the
share market just now these shares would stand neaier
their true value of £4 or £5.” There are only 48,000
shares in the Turon Co. At £5 the valuation then would
he little less than a quarter of a million, and the enor-
mous interest that 58oz. of gold per week will pay on a
quarter of a million of money, deducting a fair thing for
expenses and wear and tear, is quite clear. It would
work out something less than 1 per cent., which is of
course far more than ample for any dredging investment.
Milburn Creek (*N.S.W.)t The Melbourne
crowd decided last week to wind up. Danvers Powers,
writing to S.M. Herald, contradicts the statement that
the ore-bodies are cut out. “As a matter of fact ore
was showing in every face where the workings were in
the ore tunnel —viz., at the bottom of the shaft, bottom
of two winzes, and at the ends of No. 1,2, 3 and 4 levels.
It is only in those workings hopelessly off the lode where
there is no ore showing.” Well, the co. has spent £lO,OOO
in plant alone, and a great deal besides in unwatering,
opening-out and prospecting this mine. For a time pros-
pects were so good that they were almost certain of exer-
cising the option, and is it likely, after spending so much,
that everything would be abandoned for the sake of
£lO,OOO, 6 the price of the mine? The Melb. crowd in
question knows too much for that—the reputable Mr.
Danvers Power to the contrary notwithstanding. ‘ Ore
was showing in every face ” is not quite definite enough.
* * * # *
Cobar : Eldorado mine bagging ore worth from
Goz to 20oz. gold and 70oz. silver to the ton. The Drys-
dale mine we are told, has struck some more wonderfully
rich ore. At present it is impossible to say what quan-
tity there is of it, hut appearances point to there being a
considerable body. That in the Eldorado is making
towards the Drysdale mine.” A few weeks ago, it is said,
it was the other way about. These two mines must not
he confounded with those in the immediate vicinity of
flohnr They are over 20 miles away, on a distinct line of
country, and distinguished by entirely different charac-
teristics Five-sixths of the Drysdale gold -has been got
from a pipe of ore from 10ft. to 15ft. long and very narrow,
which has gone down almost vertically to 300 ft. There is
no prospect of this particular pipe going into the adjoining
mine, which has signs of one of its own Outside of
this pipe, in the Drysdale as well as in the Eldorado,
bunches and bodies of lower-grade ore have been milled,
but they are erratic in value a 3 well as in their course.
A winze is going down below the bottom level in the
Drysdale mine on the rich pipe, and as this is done
before the shaft is sunk, it is practically an underhand
stope robbing the mine of the rich ore before the shaft
gets down to it. The two mines should amalgamate,
and expend at least £lO,OOO in a new shaft and plant.
By that means the two perhaps would become one per-
manent div.-paying mine, but as sure as the present
gutting-out policy is followed so sure will Drysdale meet
another bad time, and the shares of each mine will fall
to a less number of pence than they are now shillings.
* * ¥ m
Gibraltar Consolidated, N.S.W. —Re-construc-
tion effected in London. New capital over-subscribed.
Chairman Hoffnung said the stopes had not yielded
enough ore for the battery’s capacity, nor had quality
improved. Three months’ production—39lo tons, 2188 oz.;
value, £9933. Mining costs, £7900 in addition to capital
expenditure, that of July and Aug. alone amounting to
£2130. It was a mistake to put up so big a crushing-
plant to deal with so small a vein.
* * * •
Grassy Gully, N.S.W. —Said that the battery is
doing 50 per cent, better work. “ No improvement in
the yield of gold, however, is looked for, as the material
now being put through includes a lot of dirt which was
taken out of the side of the hill when making a pad-
dock.” ’Twas ever thus. No such excuses when the mill
started.
» * * *
Associated : “When first cut, the ore body at
600 ft. in the crosscut connecting the two main shafts
gave values of over an ounce to the ton. Latest assays
show only about half an ounce, although at the same
time the ore carries a tremendous quantity of silver.”
A few days before it was a “ very high percentage ” of
silver. But lOOozs. to the ton would not be a tremendous
quantity, nor would 1 per cent., which would be several
hundred ounces to the ton. Some more changes in con-
templation. Latest is that Hewitson will stay in London
as managing-director, and that Liveing will take the
mine’s general management. “ Development work in
other parts of the mine proceeding as .usual,
but the men have all been taken out of the
stopes in consequence of the treatment - plant
being unable to cope with the amount of stuff sent to
surface; in fact the sulphide plant has been behaving
very badly for a long time past, and its thorough over-
hauling is the only means by which the Associated will
ever be able to make ends meet.” Thus endeth the story
of the magnificent sulphide plant. Bad enough, Heaven
only knows, but it is riot half as bad as the mine, which
has been gutted of its good ore. Spent enormous sums in
development work without finding any more, and practic-
ally wasted a quarter of a million in a plant which at last
is thus described.
* • * •
Lake View Consols.—“ The rumor of cutting
the lode at 700 ft. level proves to be without foundation.”
Time something was definitely known as to the value of
this mine below 400 ft. The local general impression is
that the 400 ft. level was none too good, the 500 poor, the
600 unpayable, and the hope of getting anything good
before the lode goes into the Golden Link is not very
bright. .
* * * *
Golden Link.—“ The ore body at 930 ft. level
continues to improve, the face at present carrying values
well over an ounce. The shaft is now down 959 ft., and in
very broken country. In fact, it has been broken from
800 ft. down.” That'is one of the many troubles of the
Golden Link. It has always been in broken country. For
the last six months the Eclipse, a lease outside of the
Golden Mile, has been the shareholders’ great consolation.
* * * *
Northern Associated. 652 tons rich ore sent to
Fremantle averaged lOoz. 16dwt. per ton, value £28,210 ;
profit, £2s,lss—the difference being freight and treat-
ment charges. Probably nothing allowed for mining. A
big mine, if it can keep going like that, which it un-
doubtedly won’t. In the face of this magnificent return,
shares have fallen 10s., and that means a drop of £175,000.
♦ • * *
Brown Hill (Kalgoorlie): The British Aus-
tralasian having boomed these shares when they were
over £8 to go much higher, and finding them at about
half the price they were a few months before, now wants
to know why the directors remain silent; while one H.
Marshall writes to the press to inform the public “ that,
as a matter of fact, this mine is played out, and that he
knows that the reef has suddenly disappeared.” If a lie,
the B.A. wants to know what sort of punishment could
be meted out to the man who made the statement, and
adds that, if true, it is clearly the duty of the directors to
be frank with the shareholders. No punishment sug-
gested for the directors. Oh, no ! They have been long
aware of the fact that the mine was rapidly exhausting
its oxidised ore. The payable oxidised ore remaining in
the propertv could he accurately measured a year ago ;
this was well known to every workman, and must surely
have been known to the management. It has also been
well known that the sulphide zone is treacherous and
precarious—so well known that thousands of scrip were
oversold six months ago, and a number of “ bears ” have
been ruined by their temerity.
The Brownhill management so concealed the
condition of the mine from the public and so much
money has been spent in bringing about a “bear
squeeze ” that shares went to £lO instead of going to £5,
and as much as 3s. 6d. per share a fortnight has been paid
as carrying-over rates. What this business cost the co.
will probablv never be known, but some day it will be
found out what it has paid in acquiring absolutely worth-
less blocks. One, the True Blue, was worked by an Eng-
lish co. until it was regarded as a duffer. Shares were
sold down to a few shillings. Then it was suddenly
acquired by the Brownhill co., payment in shares, most of
which the nominees of a well-known mining firm had the
pleasure of receiving. The Princess Louise, another side-
on block, was not worth prospecting and is never likely
to be. The Federal is also off the line. Some day, when
the public are too tired to listen and most of the victims
of this fake are dead, the business will be cleaned up and
the easy way in which fortunes fell into the lap of some
people will be made known.
* * ¥ •
Hannan’s Eureka, W.A. : “The prospects of
this mine are still considered good, but the funds are
low, and the directors are applying for exemption, as the
time is not considered opportune for further call-making.”
Then why not shut up the darned mine ? Like many
another in its vicinity, it should never have been opened,
but as that cannot be helped, the next best thing is to
close it.
* * * *
“Moses Moss, ” of London Truth, is a most
lamentable tipster. A few more of Moses’ recent mis-
takes. Five weeks or so ago he commenced his “ Golden
Westralian ” article : “ There is no doubt now that the
improvement in the W.A. market has come to stay.” Yet
within ten days the collapse occurred, and stocks gener-
ally have been from 20 to 30 per cent, lower ever since.
He predicts great things for the Diehl process. “ Under
these circumstances it is not surprising that Lake View
Consols have risen to 14J. It is expected moreover that
they will rise at least two points within the next few
day's.” Instead of that they fell £2 10s. a share within a
few days and are about that much lower now. “ Brown-
hill shares have, curiously enough, experienced a relapse
and are down to £7 16s. Yet another dividend of 7s. 6d.
per share has been declared.” Curiously enough Brown-
hill shares have since fallen another £3 a share. Two
weeks before they fell to £7 they were £8 12s. 6d.,
and then Moses 'strongly advised his readers to buy
them as they were going to £l2 within a few
wee ks—instead of which they stand under 90s. to-day.-
“ Peak Hills have been at a steady market for £4 55., arid
there are whispers of a coming advance in these.” The
public will do well to keep off M.M.’s whispers. Take this
one as a sample: “There are indications that we sb".!l
shortly see a considerable improvement in some of the
low-priced shares; amongst these I hear that Paringr.s
are likely to go ahead, and they have already hardened to
Bb. 3d. per 10s. share, and should go considerably
higher. ” Of course, they have gone lower, and they are
not worth as many pence as they are shillings. Moses
Moss should soon reach the public estimation of a certain
Sabbath tipster.
» • • *
Collie Coal, W.A.: Two or three new seams
have been found in the deeper ground of the Wallsend
colliery-one 17ft. thick. “ The discovery is regarded as
of immense importance to the whole field. Undoubtedly
—provided the coal is of a different character to that
worked, a good domestic and steaming coal, but contain-
ing too much moisture and sulphur for shipping pur-
poses. The W.A. Wallsend colliery alone will soon be in
a position to supply more coal than the present consump-
tion of W.A., but, if a good shipping coal is found, there
will be plenty room for other collieries. The latest addi-
tion is the Collie Coal Trust, floated in London with the
inadequate working capital of
Lake View and Boulder Junction, in applying
for six months’ exemption, admits having spent £50,000
in prospecting, and found
North Lyell.—J. H. Curie, the Economist’s
able mining commissioner, thinks this Co. has made a
grave economic mistake in erecting its own smelters.
The Mt. Lyell Co. is crying out for silicious ore for fluxing
and it would pay that co. to treat N. Lyell ore for less
than N. Lvell will inevitably spend in treating its own.
Mr. Curie remarks that the only pyritic ore body of the
field, other than that of the parent mine, is South Lyell.
which may prove, from one cause or another, to be useless
He might have added that S. Lyell is also mighty poor in
copper and its permanency is far from established. In
June, ’99 the N. Lyell directors reported that there wer<
in sight a million tons of ore of various grades, worth,
with copper at £5O per ton, £5,726,387. Curie figures >ll
out, after a year’s further development, at
tons, valued, with copper at £75 per ton, at £2,921,00(1.
The financial aspect : Issued capital, £465,00. (,
but before smelting can start there will be
a debt, including debentures, of nearly £350,000.
and it seems probable that the directors will decide
to liquidate this by issuing 100,000 new shares,
bringing the capital up to £565,000. With an output 01
6000 tons per month he estimates that the yearly prow
will not be more than £245,000, that with copper at £1 • <
per ton, and of this not more than £lBO,OOO would be
available for division. He therefore thinks the shares
are high enough at £3, but would be worth £5 if a
working arrangement with the parent mine wen-
effected. That should have been brought about year-
ago. Both co.s must have been aware of the position.
It seems to be a case of biting noses to spite faces. Mean-
while the N. Lyell people have been spending hundred-
of thousands—in steamers for which they have no use,
and which they sold when the fact became evident to
them ; in a railway for which there would be no use it
the mines were worked in unison ; in smelters, which
mav be of no use because of the likelihood of the ore
being more cheaply treated in another way ; and in other
directions too numerous to enumerate. The question is,
is it too late now ? Worked together, half a million, of
money would have been saved, and more than a million
added to the value of these two mines.


Complete
Outfits.
h
AN ORIENT
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE . .
“Orient To measure” Clothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
DAVID JONCS & COMPANY,
6eorg? & Barrack Sts., Sydoey.
I
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
ĥ
SOCIETY
Perth Morning Herald recently men-
tioned in quite a casual way that a ticket-of-leave
man had been fined 10s. for being out after 10
p.m. It is a strange-smelling item, like the whiff
of sonje animal that died and wasn’t buried in the
year One, when a favorable wind blows out of
B.C. and sends the fiavor of its bones down the
centuries. In Westralia the old bondman is still
supposed to advertise himself as such by flying
out of the theatre at 9.45 p.m., or by dropping his
liquor or his poker-hand and sprinting for the
door, so as to get home and conceal himself in his
stifling apartment by 10. To go to bed early over
there doesn’t necessarily imply that you are a man
of regular habits; it may rather arouse suspicion
THE RECALCITRANCE OF PEGASUS.
The N.S.W. Distressed Jockeys’ Fund now amounts to £5000, but there is no fund for distressed
poets. Herewith you see the luckless bards striving to qualify.
that you daren’t be out late. What a satirical
picture an artist could draw of Westralian
society; a glittering ball-room, a clock registering
9.55 ; and the doorway choked with evening-dress
gentlemen who had a misfortune in earlier days,
and so have to be home by 10. It mightn’t be
strictly accurate, but it is a picture which should
command a good price in W. A. Somebody would
surely want badly to burn it.
* * * •
N.S W. Commandant French, discoursing
(in his annual report) about the alleged “ Imperial
Bushmen ”:—
On the whole it was fortunate that some months elapsed
after arrival in S. Africa before that corps was brought
into contact with the enemy.
Was that Gen. French’s opinion when the men
left Sydney ? If so, why didn’t he say so ? If
not, what has made him change his mind ?
* * * «
The Bulletin had something to say about
the Boer whiskers, teeth, &c., sent to Australia as
trophies from the seat of war, but a trooper (name
printed in the local Y.D.L. paper) of the first
Tasmanian Contingent caps all by writing (North
West Post, Tas., 18/10/’00) to his mother telling
her that he saw a Boer gunner blown to pieces
with a lyddite shell, and, he continues, “I have
some of his clothes and a little lump of his flesh
(italics Bulletin’s) as a keepsake, and will bring
them home with me if all goes well.” Home,
sweet home ! Let us hope this gentle Raspberry-
lander will keep it nice and fresh so that the
family will be able to sample it when he arrives.
•Come to think of it, potted-Boer sandwichei
would have sold like hot cakes in various Aus-
tralian cities on Mafeking-drunk night.
* • * •
The Bulletin has seen in print many
unspeakably-liideous narrations addressed by Aus-
tralian soldiers to their mothers. Under other
circumstances the elaborate brutality of the tales
in question might prompt speculation as to what
sort of female ghouls these swaddies imagined
their mothers to be. But the fact that Mother is
often so proud of her gorilla-minded boy that she
joyfully hands his blood-stained screed to the
printer goes far to prove that Private Gnawbones
from Skull Hollow knows his dear mother right
down to the ground.
* * * *
A Hobart advt. says a certain entertain-
ment is “under the patronage of H.E. the Ad.”
Chief Justice Madden, at Melb., got the title of
“ Acting ’’-Governor changed to Lieutenant-
Governor. But to suggest that a man is an adver-
tising or advertisement Governor is as insulting
as to say he’s an ac-tor-Governor. By the way,
Madden was the first stop-gap Australian Gover-
nor to pose as the real article. Chief Justice
Stawell never did more than sign official papers.
At Hobart, “ Johnny ” Dodds is unwisely taking
pattern by Madden. The Colonial Office never
meant that the locum-tenens should be more than
what it officially calls him—“ the officer adminis-
tering the Government.” At Sydney, Chief Jus-
tice Darley puts on no frills, and sensibly sticks
to the letter and spirit of the office.
v * * *
The perplexity of the N.S.W. Govt, over
the question of how it can, with a decent demo-
cratic face, provender, during the Federal celebra-
tions, the wealthy and political pushes at the ex-
pense of the general revenue, was much relieved
during the week. A member whose constituents
don’t know much about him leaned over a bench
and asked the Premier would he, as part of the
ceremonies, give a feed to the old parties in Sydney
Benevolent Homes. Premier Bill thought he
found salvation. It is said he kicked See under
the table, and motioned to O’Sullivan to keep his
mouth shut. “ Certainly I will,” said Long Bill-
ominous name ! —“certainly. The poor must have
their rejoicings as well as others.” The meaning
of this is that Sydney’s wealthy lower orders and
general political pushes will gorge themselves on
the best brands of everything at the public ex-
pense, and that to cover this gluttonous robbery
of the people some hundreds of old people in insti-
tutions will get a blow-out coming to about tup-
pence-ha’penny a head. Is there no one in Par-
liament to get up and burst this raid on public
confidence—this idea of feeding the derelicts as
a mere foil against those who object to the enter-
tainment of “ ladies and gentlemen ” at Treasury
expense ?
* * * »
It has been published in London that Aus-
tralia will only be absolutely happy if the Yorks
are permitted to bring their b.ibv with them.
“The dear little fellow, in the sailor suit, with
whose photo, we are already familiar,” is the par-
ticular kid that Australia is supposed to be yearn-
ing for. Salisbury, Chamberlain, and the Queen
are understood to deeply regret that it can’t be
done, it being considered too big a gamble to
allow two heirs to the Throne loose on “ a long
and perhaps perilous journey.” The Bulletin’s
idea is that, if England had horse-sense, it would
seize the present opportunity to send us the whole
Royal family, root and branch, and “ for keeps.”
» • * »
Bishop Gallagher (R.C.) at Albury :
“Those who seek marriage with divorced wives
whose husbinds are living are nothing less than
the lowest brutes.”—-
The God that made the lowest beast
He also made the highest priest;
And simple man doubts, half in terror,
The former is His-greatest error.
Is it the federation of Australia that is to
be celebrated next year, or the subversion of the
S’African Republic ? It would really seem that
the Australian people are to be asked to work
themselves into a lather of enthusiasm to the
honor and glory of a gaudy and greedy militarism
under the pretence of signalising the peaceful
birth of a new nation with spontaneous rejoicings.
Gorgeous warriors are to be imported from all
over the Empire to decorate the occasion. A
thousand assorted British soldiery, including
Indian niggers, all in their most beautiful clothes,
are on order, the returned contingenters are to be
paraded freely, and when the “juke” lands the
country will swarm with swashbucklers and mili-
tary dudes, to be trotted out by special request.
Far better let the Commonwealth come in peace-
fully on its own than disgrace the event with a
display of mock patriotism, utterly foreign to the
spirit of the moment. The Commonwealth cele-
brations are, it would appear, to be merely another
big advt. for John Bull and co.
* * * *
A solemn Sydney leader-writer bewails
the sluggishness of N.S.W. Govt, in getting ready
for an inaugural Commonwealth splash. Victoria
lias collared all available Sydney electric-lighting
plant!! “As things stand” (moans the writer)
“ we will have to depend very larjdii on <jas and
other common lace means of expressing our joy
upon achieving Federal nationhood.” Ves, thank
goodness there is gas in Gilead : Sydney will never
run short of gas.
* * * •
Both Adelaide dailies quietly support
Snow’s tramway-grab, and practically stifle dis-
cussion by declining to publish correspondence on
the question except at advertising rates. Cornelius
Proud, who has so ably led the opposition to com-
pany monopolies, is an Adelaide broker who was
formerly leader of the Register’s literary staff.
RIGHT UP TO DATE.
“What’s a plagiarist, father?”
“A man who writes plays, my boy.”
Sydney D.T. has now got a scheme for
divorcing the control of the metropolitan trams
from that of the Railways, on the ground that the
three Railway Commissioners have their hands
full without the bother of the fast-growing tram-
way system. The idea is that a single Commis-
sioner for Irani ways he appointed. This sugges-
tion is much more rational than the Telegraph’s
previous tram-scheme, about which the less said
the better. By the way, what sort of a Tramway
Commissioner would President Carey make ?
* * » »
The Yellow Press. Sydney Catholic
Press now appears in a yellow cover—clothed in
the livery of the Pup !
* • » *
The Catholic Press aforesaid recently
gave its readers something pretty to look
at ph otograp 1 1 s in three postures of the
mutilated remains of one of the victims of the
Cninese outbreak taken after the unfortunate
creature had had his eyes burnt out, his non-vital
parts riddled with bullets, and other sections of
him cut off and roasted while the main portion of
him was still alive. The Press accompanies
these fascinating items with the remark
that this is the first time that the aspect
of a martyr after martyrdom has been preserved
by photography. Thank heaven that the inven-
tion of the art was delayed till the ages when
martyrs were scarce !
• * • *
Beer versus Tucker ! Adelaide Mayoralty,
will be fought out this year by present May#r
Ware and Aid. Tucker, and it will be the warmest
contest for years. Theformer hasbeenacivic failpye,
but he has money and a brewery and that counts
for much with “York” a prospective visitq%,.and
a knighthood sticking out. Tucker is t best
administrator Adelaide has seen and ITy three
years in the chair were entirely successful, but—
he is the chief civic and Parliamentary sponsor for
the Snow Tramway grab, and that should kill his
chances stone-dead.
Hon. John Hughes’s speech at the second
reading of N.S. W.’s new Money-lending Bill tem-
porarily galvanised into life the “House of
Fossils-” It co sisted mainly of a series of
scathing charges against Sydney’s chief usurers.
One by one they were named, and particular
instances of their greedy practices related. The
height of denunciatory eloquence was reached,
and the most cogent proofs of need for the Bill
advanced, when Mr. Hughes dilated on the wily
ways and exorbitant charges of a certain Gentile
“worse than a Jew.” If the same enthusiasm:
prevails in the Lower House the safe passage of"
the Bill is assured. There was but one of the-
fossils who tried to keep up the appearance of the-
mummified, and even he failed. The shape of his
proboscis portrayed an inborn antipathy to public
discussion of the subject, and though* he buried
his head in The Bulletin, even that journal failed
to engage his attention during the speech.
* * * *
Premier Seddon’s Jingo cablegrams are
likely to make a big hole in next surplus. Appa-
rently Richard of Kumara grows garrulous with
age, and to be garrulous by cable is expensive. -
The shriek which he sent to Roberts whep.Jhat',
condensed grenadier was appointed commander-
in-chief must have run to many pounds. It r Hfc.
eluded such costly remarks as—“ Your life-lopgg,
successful, and distinguished services to the em,Y
pire fully entitled you to position, and Imperial/
authorities have done well in placing British army
under your charge.” Roberts replied briefly. He
hasn’t a whole Treasury to use forpurposesof diffuse
cablegramming, and probably he curses with a
curse that would be good to hear when he has to
waste time and ink and cash in responding to the
dull platitudes of people he never met, and whom
he could see run over by a tram-car with perfect
indifference.
* * * *
Sydney stood on the tiptoe of expectancy
last Thursday morning. A procession, solemnlv
wending its way towards the Water Police lock-
up, consisting of the Sergeant-at-Arms, Gen.
French, wearing a hang-dog look, two constables,


Don’t be put off
with worthless
imitations of
SUNLIGHT
SOAP.
SorcTbroat
“You cannot do better than
gargle with ‘Condy’s Fluid.’ ”
Sir Morell Mackenzie, M.D.
(The Eminent Throat Specialist)
Gargle
with
Condy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL, London, England,
are the only Kakers.
‘ CONDY’S Fm ID” can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitation.
“ The missus wanted a fortune dropped on her.'
“ You are not game to go.” “ Pooh, that’s noth
ing ! Pooh, that’s nothing!” “You go to the
devil! ” And Jimmy Governor went.
Men of Taste
h
Should trade with men of taste. Our cultivated
taste in selecting our stocks of BOOTS and SHOES is
the result of half-a-centiirv’s experience in handling
them, and our reputation has always been the
highest. We know how to please our customers ;
we can fit any feet with Boots and Shoes, the
appearance of which stamp as men of taste both the
wearers and the sellers.
CALLAGHAN AND SON,
Gent.’s Willow Calf Boots, remarkable
for Softness and Wear, 22s 6d.
395 George Street, Sydney.
The Backwash has got into the columns of
the Jingo papers now. Perth Morning Herald
prints this from its correspondent with the
Imperial Bushmen, a well-known and reputable
Westralian journalist:
“ ADVT. ADVT.-ALL ADVT ! ”
I have seen Mafeking, talked with its people, and have
come to the conclusion that the siege was perhaps the
most “ over-hoomed” incident of the war. “ Advt. Advt.
—All Advt.!” is the comment mostly heard from visitors to
the town since the relief. The harrowing tales of the
privations suffered by the garrison that have been circu-
lated may be put down as mostly overdrawn rubbish.
When 1 heard them laughing at the description of the
trials in the outside newspapers, I remarked, “ But,
surely, that report about eating horseflesh wasn’t a de-
liberate lie ?—and when a garrison gets down to that,
things must be at a low "ebb.” “Oh, yes,” replied a
trooper, “ we had a go at the horses ; but, bless you, there
were herds of cattle grazing on the flat here all the time ! ”
“ Then why, in the name of all that’s foolish, did you do
it?” I asked, naturally. “Orders,” he replied, with a
charmingly expressive shrug. As a matter of fact, about
the only article they really felt the want of badly was
good flour, and that was only towards the end. It is an
indisputable fact that one of the most daring attacks on a
Boer position from the town was the result of a bet made
across a rather lively supper-table at 12 p.m. I, like all
other visitors, was keenly disappointed in what I saw and
heard in Mafeking, having expected so much—and here
one of my idols has come down with a crash.
and the Leg. Ass.’s tomcat, was anxiously awaited.
Alas ! it came not. The Sleath Comedy Co. had
failed to find a quorum, and the commitment to
prison and torment of the refractory G.O.C. —who
had refused to disclose to Mr. Richard Sleath, as
chairman of a Royal Commission, the condition of
N.S. Wales’ armament —had to stand over
indefinitely. As a matter of fact and constitu-
tional law, while Sleath has a perfect right to hand
over a recalcitrant witness to the Sergeant-at-
Arms, that luckless man would at once find him-
self burdened with a white elephant. He has no
place of confinement provided for the reception of
his “prisoners” : he could neither provide them
with food nor accommodation; he could not deliver
them to any prison, for the Governor of a gaol
cannot take any warrant of commitment save
from a judge or magistrate, and if he did the
friends of the “prisoner” could get a writ of
Habeas Corpus and have him out in less that 24
hours; finally, a nice little action for false
imprisonment, with substantial damages, would
knock the mythical gilt off the illusionary ginger-
bread.
* * * *
To a constable who omitted to give, in his
evidence, certain conversations telling in favor of
an accused, Judge Hood (Vic.) recently: “It is
an outrageous thing for any constable to give only
such parts of a conversation as might tell against
a prisoner and keep back parts that might tell in
his favor.” Which is a farcical observation for
any Judge to make while he is himself part of a
system that spends its money and employs all its
ample forces to con vict an accused, while render-
ing to him not the slightest assistance to defend
himself —unless the paltry £l5 allowed for legal
assistance in murder cases can be dignified by
calling it a “ Grown defence allowance.”
* • * *
Considering its population, a remarkable
feature of South
Australia is the
number of free,
or next to free,
cottage homes that
philanthropistshave
provided. One orga-
nisation the Cot-
tage Homes, Incor-
porated —is exclu-
sively devoted to
their management;
it lias in its care 36
cottages in one
suburb, 10 in anoth-
er, and a less num-
ber in several others,
with more building,
all let rent-free.
HE KNEW!
'TEACHER (to new scholar): "Now, Willie Jones, I'll give you a sum. Supposing your father
owed £ 3 jar rent, 50s. to the butcher, and 40s. to the baker, what would be the result.”
WILLIE (confidently) : “We’d move again, Miss.”
“Pedagogue”: The school-boys in our
smellful Sydney suburb have two new games
which are responsible for much wagging o b riday
afternoons. One is a kind of barbaric golf played
with crooked sticks and “language. Ihe other
is called “Blacks and Bobbies.” The blacks
(burnt-cork-’uns) start out from a scrubby allot-
ment called “ Breelong ; ” stick up school kiddies;
take tucker from them ; camp ; boil the billy;
and all the rest of it. The trouble is that as only
two can be Breelong blacks at a time, there is
fierce competition for the “star-parts.” I have
had to administer corporal punishment for the
actual looting of lunch-baskets. Oouldn t stand
so much “ realism ” as that.
... *
The three individuals who salted the Glen-
fine No. 1 mine, and thereby deprived a few
people of a little money in a Stock Exchange
flutter, were sentenced by the Victorian courts
to six and 12 months “jug” respectively. And
the Age reports that the public is surprised at the
leniency of the sentence. What in thunder is it
surprised about ? Only a few days ago a Mel-
bourne “push” nearly killed a man with horrid
brutality, and, allowing for medical expenses, loss
of wages while ill, and his permanent deteriora-
tion, it probably did him more actual cash
damage, quite apart from personal suffering, than
all the loss created by the Glenfine salting case.
And a brute-loving magistrate fixed the penalty
at 10s. fine. While Victoria hasn’t energy enough
to drag that magistrate off the Bench and roll him
in the gutter what has it to be surprised about ?
From a mere property point of view the sentence
on the Pitfield salters was atrociously severe as
compared with the other case. Can’t the Vic.
Bench begin to comprehend that a man’s head and
ribs are his property as much as a man’s mining
scrip ?
* * * *
Sergf. Gould, son of Hon. A. J. Gould,
M.L.C. (N.S.W.), writes from the front to say that
the Imperial Bushmen lately encountered a great
hailstorm. “It lasted for four hours. ... . Our
clothes dried on us. . . . We were all bruised. . .
It was a frightful night! There were about eight
men killed, and about 60 sent to the hospital through,
it /” Where, O where was the cableliar on this
sensational occasion ?
* * * *
There are some curious points about the
recent Melbourne husband-shooting case. The
salient facts appear to be that, after a quarrel,
Mrs. Wright rushed to the bedroom and brought
out a revolver, a bullet from which there-
after fatally wounded the husband—fee says pos-
sibly because he shoved against the pistol. The
wife’s own statement that she fired at him can
hardly be taken as conclusive in view of her hys-
terical mental state, as manifested during the
taking of the husband’3dying depositions. ‘“I
am not sorry for von,’ she said; ‘you have
earned it.’ Repenting almost at the same
moment she bent down and kissed him pas-
sionately, her sobs mingling with his groans of
P ain -” ....
A Sydney solicitor’s bald head glosier in
glossiness while he makes up his new
case for counsel. On behalf of a wife
he claims damages from the seducer
of her husband. He instructs
counsel that whereas the hus-
band can thus legally mulct a
co-respondent, his client has an
equal legal right, and as the
woman-co-respondent has in this
case abulidauee. of pelf, wifey,
he maintains, is entitled to a
liberal pull at the siren’s pocket.
There is a little pap jr, pub-
lished in Sydney, which should be
the organ of the W.0.T.U., but
isn’t. It is called The Aus-
tralian
Hen.
Incidentally cropped-up again in
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly, the other
evening, the fact that the alcohol
supplied to the gaol-hospitals
in the State is always in the
form of “white spirit.” The
avowed object of furnishing
the stimulant in as nauseous a
form as possible involves the
preposterous assumption that a
prisoner’s illness should be made
a part of his punishment. A patient
should surely be considered simply as
a patient, and with no reference to his-
tory, or personal character, or any other
circumstance whatever.
♦ * * *
Some people take the trouble 1o
oil the machinery that makes the money.
Sargood’s Sydney house has established a
permanent camp for the summer months
at Cowan Creek, with man, feed, and
boats in attendance. There batches
of from three to Jeight of the single
employes will be sent for ten work-
ing days (on full pay) at a cost to
themselves of Gd. per day—“ so
that they won’t feel under a com-
pliment.” Which is a move in the
right direction, and might be fol-
lowed as a good in-
vestment, at small
cost, by other big
houses. /
“Maori'’:
If Mrs. Ed-
mund Barton
didn’t meet
any “haw-
haw” English-
men at ’Ome
(“ W Oman’s
Letter,” 8.,
25/8/’00), then all
I can say is, the
lady was ex-
tremely lucky. I
have just returned
from a 12 months’
stay in England,
and I met him every-
where (speaking
within the reasonably
broad limits of my
social excursions). De-
spite “Cecil P.’s”
denial (8., 29/9/’00), the “haw-haw” individual
is to be found in the smartest sets, especially
among the military.
* » * *
John LongstafFa portrait of Chief-Justice
Darley is a notable piece of work. Artists were
curious, to see whether Longstaff could make a
life-size, full-length, six-foot figure clothed in
bright scarlet robes trimmed with white ermine,
look alive. The white fur was dead white, and
the red pure vermillion —more insistent and glar-
ing than the red of a postman’s coat. Yet, above
six feet of this trying color, Longstaff has painted
a head that is brilliantly alive, and the tone of
the flesh does not suffer at all from the
blaze of red beneath it. It has been
done, too, without subduing the red by
shadows —the hood is painted in as strong a light
as the head. In a straightforward, manly way
the artist has done a daring and difficult thing.
The figure is noble and dignified in spite of robes
that, in less adroit hands, would have made it
squat and dumpy. The painting of the face, with
the skilfully-treated shadows from the brow half
down the eyes, does full justice to one of the
handsomest men of his time despite a Chief
Justice’s wig—certainly not an enhancement to a
naturally-fine presence.
* * * *
Sydney had another attack of Sunday-
Brunkerism last Day of Rest. The Lyne Govern-
ment’s conscience was smitten about the evils of
the Sabbath banana, and it indignantly closed up
the fruit-shops, just as Brunker did. Brunker’s
conscience lasted for one week only, and it isn’t
likely that Lyne’s will last much longer. The
same Sunday that the Lyne Govt, decided that
poor people must not be allowed to sell fruit in
order to eke out their meagre livelihood, because
the Saboath was holy 7, various members of the
Lyne Govt, travelled by train to Orange, and
thereby knocked the holy Sabbath into 49 pieces.
And they weren’t driven to do this wrong by the
necessity of making a living; their Sabbath-
breaking was pure luxury based on a desire to
gorge at a banquet. Therefore the Lyne Govern-
ment had better crawl down in haste from its un-
tenable Sunday-banana attitude, lest it be too like
the Pharisees mentioned in Matthew xxiii., v. 4.
* * • •
When the plague-scare was on in Sydney,
a certain business man had a big clearing-out of
tilings in his office, with the result that lie came
across a heap of stamps that he had previously
collected and then forgotten. He took the lot
round to Smyth and Nicolle, stamp-collectors, and
received £l5O for his bundle.
* * * *
Certain assertions concerning alleged
practices by N.S.W. attorneys as a body, made
by Mr. L. F. Heydon, solicitor, in an affidavit
submitted to Mr. Justice A. H. Simpson last
week, have made the minor branch of the pro-
fession sit up violently. And The Bulletin
doesn’t wonder. It is now for the N.S.W. Law
Institute to afford the Full Court a chance of pro-
nouncing judgment on the whole matter at issue—
incidentally, perhaps, giving Mr. Heydon an
opportunity of acquainting the public with the
names of the leading legal firms who are in the
habit of taking commission from other attorneys
under such circumstances as those set forth in
Mr. Justice Simpson’s judgment.
*** . V *
As related before Q. liquor-commission,
BIS “MAIDEN ”
NAME.
LITTLE WILLIE (his 97th
question): “Say, Dad! What was your
other name before mother married you?”
the all-night bobby with a thirst carefully blows
out the local publican’s night-light and then calls
the landlord up to tell him about it. His zeal for
the hotel-keeper causes the latter to “stand a
pint.”
The Sign of the Cross—the average N.S.W,
J.P’s signature.
Jimmy Governor, one of the outlawed
Breelong half-caste-aboriginal murderers, who had
five teeth shot out of his mouth by a rifle-bullet
some time ago, has been caught after more than
three months’ chase —when be was weak from
hunger and exhaustion and tired of the hunt. A
party of seven civilians, headed by one John
Wallace, surrounded his camp at night and cap-
tured him at dawn after filling up his back and
legs with shot. “The police,” says Jimmy,
“could not run down a poddy-calf.” Joe Gover-
nor is still at large. Jimmy was caught near
Wingham, on N.S.W. northern coast, more than
200 miles from the scene of the Mawbey murders.
He says he had been living on oranges and honey
for a fortnight, and was thinking of giving himself
up. And according to Jimmy, it was his white
wife who was the woman at the bottom of his
bushranging, “ and like another Helen, fired
another Troy.” They were splitting timber and
digging postholes for Mawbey, and at night con-
versation turned from hard yacker to the easy life
of bushranging. Says Jimmy (it is a quaint yarn):
“Jacky Underwood, Joe, myself, and Mrs. Governor
were talking. ‘Well,’ I said to them, ‘if I was a bush-
ranger I suppose I would take some catching.’ Jack;,
Underwood said. ‘ Oh, no, Jimmy, you could not be a
rider through the scrub like me. You would have to fol-
low.’ Joe said, ‘ I’m as good as any of you.’ I said to
them, ‘ I don’t crack myself about being any good, but.
perhaps, f could do as well as any of you before I was
married.’ ‘ Well,’ Underwood said, ‘ What do vou say if
we go bushranging?’ I said, ‘I don’t care.’ Then
Underwood said, ‘ I don’t care either. I shot a black-
fellow in Queensland. I don’t like Joe getting shot. You
had better come with me.’
“The missis wanted a fortune dropped on her. She
wanted us to rob people of money, and leave it at Jim
Watson’s corner fence, 2£ miles from Gulgong. Her
brother Willy was to go there and get it when it was all
over.
“ This talk occurred two or three days before the Maw-
bey business. Then I broke up our plates and saucers
and everything in my own camp and was to go next day.
but didn’t go.
“ My missis, Jacky Underwood, and Joe laughed at the
idea of bushrangintr. They said to me, ‘You are not
game to go.’ I said, ‘ That is forcing me to go.’ Joe and
Jacky Underwood went away to Dubbo next day, and
did not come back for eight or nine days. They brought
Jacky Porter back and the boy, my nephew.
“ Well, during that time they had been talking about
bushranging every day. I had never read any of Dead-
wood Dick’s novels or any books about bushranging till
we came out. That night my wife and me had a word or
two about cooking and something *br another about the
camp.
“ With that I said, ‘ I suppose I am in this world alone
with no one to care for me. I thought you was my wife.'
She said, ‘Go to the devil.’ Everything I said to her she
said, ‘ Pooh, that’s nothing ! Pooh, that’s nothing.’
“ With that me and Underwood cleared out. I thought
I might as well die, so the Mawbey murders were com-
mitted. *


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’S success is a Town Trade.
The Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
v If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing t
Write to
MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Same prloes and attention as if you bought amongst the daily crowds at the oounters.
Hundreds of exhibits at Paris Exposi-
tion captured the discerning approval of the art
critics. But theP.D. corset went one better, and
whilst winning the universal admiration of the-
beautiful and their adorers, annexed that much
coveted honor, the Grand Prix. How many first
prizes the P.D. won its fair wearers in the matri-
monial stakes it would be impossible to conjecture.
Hymen sings hymns of praise to the P.D. all the
year round.*
Simplest—Most Durable—Best
Tight^
’Running
ĥ
5. MACHINES,
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id. f
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
ħ
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
Stoil6 T6IIS NO Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson, 284 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 30, 1900.
My Dear Myee.—
Nothing happens in Sydney at present. All
the people who make things happen are helping
to wear down the lawn at Flemington. The
moths are being chased out of his Ex.’s port-
manteau, the Premier has set all the eggs for the
hatching of Commonwealth festivities, and the
committees are now brooding upon them. May
one be festive by Government order? On such a
date ye shall begin a burst of joy. On a certain
date you shall cease bursting with joy. The city
is for the present given over to flower-shows and
tae amateur actor. The wife of the Chief Justice
opened the annual rose show at the Town Hall
Workmen on scaffolds in the gallery made what
s.io said inaudible with the vigorous hammering.
A rose show is a good place to see a list of famous
and notorious names. There was a wonderful
Pompadour rose, and as champion the Marechal
JN tel was at the head of the review.
Ihe Voice that breathed o’er Eden spoke from
the bridal bouquets, and its advice was, “Do —
that you may carry a posy like this.” It would
h s a pity to abolish the bridal bouquet for the
fashion just set by a fashionable English bride,
tone carried the wedding-ring on a white satin
cushion. When you remember that, on the
authority of historian Buckle, the wedding-ring is
merely a symbolic survival of the last link of the
chain with which savage man dragged his wild
bride to his lair, you will realise that carrying the
posy is not so squaw-like a proceeding as bearing
the wedding-ring.
Doesn’t the decoration of the table at which
you are dining affect your mental attitude ? One
of the four competitive tables, the prize-taker,
as bedecked with pale pink carnations, Japanese
maple, feathery ferns, and pink satin ribbon.
I he garnishee scored in not using a scrap of white
in her garnishings, so they showed up well against
the white background of tablecloth. Not that I
eared much for the sash-ribbon, all the same. It
would surely catch in some man’s coat-sleeve, and,
its ends were hitched to a tall vase in the centre
of the table, there would be trouble.
Yes, your dinner-mate at this table ought to be
named Guy—pray pronounce it as in French. He
would be ironic, elegant, and wickedly witty, with
exactly three drops of best Rhine violet on the
upper part of his shirt-cuff.
You would be gay, cynical, epigrammatic.
Y our gown should be tender green, and he should
say you reminded him of a Chopin etude and
entreat you to eat Angels on Horseback. You
would try one and remark that you never dined
in white since you noticed that women who did
seemed related to the table-cloth. You are sick
of the winding-sheet-like table-cloth. Why don’t
we have green ones on which the flowers would
look at home ?
Then there was another table decorated with
jonquils, cornflowers, and a frank slab of mirror-
glass. At that you would be a little ungramma-
tical, but human and healthy, and talk of golf,
home-made millinery, billy teas, and eat roast
mutton.
Why don’t women who enter for these table-
decorating contests remember that ornamentation
is merely the means to an end, and that end is
the comfort of the diners? Some of them all but
forgot that anyone was to feed from off the table,
and that their food was not to be flowers and
ferns.
The matrimonial-agency persons who celebrate
marriages are to the clergy as foxes, the little
foxes that gnaw the vines. And Govt, is going to
legislate and muzzle the foxes. It’s very hard on
the agencies. They have been kind to the young
lady with a domestic, loving disposition who
desired to meet the tall, dark gent, with a view to
marriage, and have married her most happily to
the short, fair, bald man who, until he met this
young lady, yearned only for the middle-aged
widow with means. But the agency fees are
lower than the clergy’s. That’s where the ring
pinches. Government ought to simplify matters
by making the civil marriage a necessity and the
clerical optional, as in France.
What room there is for an “Hotel Matri-
monial,” where persons desiring to meet affinities
might go to stay ; a place containing a chapel and
clergyman’s quarters and a chronic wedding
breakfast! There was, or is, such a desideratum
in Sydney, only it didn’t desiderate far enough.
It lacked benefit of clergy and chapel. A well-
known Melbourne hotel in Spring-street earned
the name of the “Matchbox” some years ago
because of the number of affinities that made each
other’s acquaintance under its roof.
Concerning the “ Matchbox.” A lot of persons
will recall the case of a maiden lady of a very cer-
tain age who went to live there and presently
met and married a fellow boarder—a squatter,
rich, 70 years old, and a widower. His infuriated
daughters, all mothers of families, calmed down
wonderfully when they saw the bride. “An old,
old maid,” they told each other; “No danger,
and she’ll look after Pa well, for he was getting
very trying.” Within a year little Bobbie was
born. Pa made great changes in his will, then
died. Photograph : an interesting young rich
widow holding her infant son Madonna-wise.
Will Australian men have enough ego to shed
the unnecessary coat during Dog-Star weather, or
will they wait for the Governor-General to give
them a lead ? If our present Ex. had set the
fashion of shirt-waists lie would be gratefully re-
membered in Australia when Mafeking and the
Australian contingents are forgotten. In New
York men of fashion have discarded the coat
during hot weather, and no one is now surprised
to see men in “ shirt-waists ” at theatres, in draw-
ing-rooms, and at dinner-tables. The shirt-waist is
the assertion of a common-sense fashion, and it is
infinitely more picturesque, artistic, and cleaner-
looking than the coat. The only time Sarah
Grand s heroine in the “Heavenly Twins ” sighs
because George isn’t really her hubby is when she
. llm coatless whilst hanging pictures. The
S nrt Waist ” man is, she says, the most becom-
lng.y-dressed man. Which is an easily-under-
standable assertion when you come to remember
u o T?i X ? e^ fi£ ure ( as illustrated on the occasion
by Phil May) cut by that fine, straight man, Mr.
-*-° m , now N.S.W. Minister for Lands,
when he wore, on Melb. Cup lawn, some years
a,go, the typical smart Queensland bushman’s
shirt-waist costume.
At the recent Sydney C. of E. diocesan festival,
after the “Hallelujah Chorus,” the plate went
round, and the Governor scored a point by ex-
horting the audience not to follow the example of
Spurgeon’s rich friend, who sang lustily “ I give
my love, my life, my all,” while he fumbled his
pocket for a threepenny-bit!
The matter of a lady-teacher’s right to wear a
hat before her class seems to have been the root
of that little rumpus in Brisbane Grammar
School lately, which resulted in the suspension
of the lady who had the temerity to sport a
chapeau while on duty. The suspended one
alleges (in the Press) that the hat was “an
elaborate affair, ’’ and a removal of the article
would have entailed much subsequent trouble
when it had to be put on again. Surely a
head-mistress should be cognisant of these facts,
and let down the offender in so vital a matter as
lightly as possible. _ Naturally, the sterner sex is
all a-grin at the episode.
Sydney Newsboys’Picnic, at Clontarf, was an
exhibition of plain - and - fancy gluttony. For
hours before the steamer started the boys surged
about the Government wharf 500 strong, hungry
and joyous. There were scores of sham-fights in
progress. About 150 heads were in chancery, and
the chancellors seemed to be pummelling severely,
for love. Only this kind of boy and ownerless
dogs can play violently for three parts of the day
on an empty stomach, and sleep soundly all
night, still unfed. Only a pure newsboy can
smoke _ the fifteenth part of a cigarette and
be envied by the boy who does not own that regret
of tobacco and memory of tissue-paper. Bland
Holt’s cake was as big as a bicycle-wheel, pink,
and topped by a ragged boy playing a tin whistle.
It was heavy, not in the digestive, but in the
monetary sense, as it was thickly sown with three-
penny bits. It is a great thing to be able to take
the heaviness out of a cake and barter it for cigar-
ettes, or a pork pie.
Seventy-two guineas each was what the Conrad
Martens pictures in Hon. W. A. Long’s collection
fetched. Mr. Long bought them for half as much
years ago. Nerli’s “Cosette” brought eleven
guineas. She goes to Maoriland.
Many persons must have got a shock this week
when they opened an envelope manifestly covering
a card of invitation, and were faced by the words,
“ Thou Fool! ” That is the name of Rev. George
Walters’ new play produced this week. It has
nothing of old Judea in it, but much of fashion-
able drawing-rooms, concert-halls, and young
men’s rooms at college.
“Old Campaigner” MTvor is worth hearing
on the war that was. He has a lot of good stories
and a fine way of telling them. Years ago Mr.
MTvor was a peaceful citizen of Wyoming ; then
he began to fight Indians under Generals Crook
and Custer, yet his scalp is intact.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The MacEacharn turned on plenty of palms,
Chinese lanterns and champagne for his ball at
the Town Hall on Thursday night, so that every-
one voted the last official kick of Mayor Mac. a
really noble performance. To save all jealousy
and heart-burnings among the Naicest, he selected
pleasant, homely Mrs. Downes, wife of the mili-
tary commandant, to assist in the hand-shaking
which some of the staid sticklers religiously per-
form, though Toorak flung its nod and chirpy
smile from a debonair distance.
“ Looking from the gallery at the opening set of
lancers one was struck by the display of bald
heads and bare shoulders. One bald head was
hidden by a tight little Turkish cap, which made
the wearer, Dr. C. Ryan, the envy of all his
shiny-pated brethren. Lieut. Col. Robertson was
a mountainous figure in the set. The incoming
Mayor—Cr. Gillot —was dwarfed beside him. The
military Triton, by the way, danced with the fair
Miss Ruby Madden, who looked plump and
pretty (after her Sydney trip) in an innocent
frilled frock with baby bunches of pale blue
chiffon. A similar decoration drew attention to
her well-dressed head.
“S’Rupert’s hop is fixed for Friday next (9th)
at Prahran Town Hall. Everyone wonders who
will do the feminine honors of the evening.
“Nellie Stewart proved a draw at that charity
fete at the Mars-Buckley mansion (Sat., Oct. 27).
“ At the first glimpse of the favorite in wine silk
dust-cloak, tucked from top to toe, sister women
seemed rather pleased to detect something a wee
bit hard, artificial and mature, in Nellie’s aspect.
But one and all confessed her charm when she
tripped in to sing, in simple white muslin with a
few lace-insertion yees on her skirt, pale-blue
waist-ribbon tied at the side, regular nuggets of
turquoise dangling from her neck-chain, and
white crinoline hat, all pink roses, and pale-blue
satin bow.
“When she began to warble ‘Margot’ (‘La
Cigale ’), she-hearers perked up again and
whispered ‘ What a dear little chirp ! ’ However,
such winning ways, bright locks, dainty attitudes
and sweet smiles sauced the song that the per-
former soon had her audience on toast. Seen at
her best, the Stewart —with eyes blue as ever, arch
dimples, sunny hair and engaging smile—is still
rich in looks, talent and magnetism, though her face
is less soft, her fingers more massive, and her voice
dryer than of old. Of course, Parisian plumage
and artistic make-up are sharp arrows in Nellie’s
quiver. On Saturday, when she arrived at the
fete, she and her party went to ‘take off their
cloaks,’ and spent so long over it that the amateur
concert-promoters, goaded by an audience raven-
ing for its lions, grew anxious. A flurried lady
suggested to colleague Nevill that ‘ p’raps the
artists were changing their costumes.’ ‘Surely
they’re not going to sing in costume ! ’ panted her
confidant—inwardly conjuring up a vision of
tights, &c., while he threw an apprehensive glance
at Mrs. Gov. Madden, who sat in the front row,
pale and preoccupied.
“When the stars (human) did appear, the ladies’
skirts and sleeves and men’s curls were the same
length as other people’s, so I s’pose they’d been
‘reposing themselves,’ as Society’s pet French
tenor probably surmised. The good Boffard !
He’s been there himself. And doesn’t he look as
pretty as a picture in platform war-paint ?
“Other operatic performers were Avery Bel-
vura, said to be a Canadian, a tall fair, clean-
shaped, high-nosed young man. Arens (recently
h aust) has a broad, flat, good-humored Slav face.
He accompanied himself on the Russian instru-
ment, a small music machine, a melodeon to look
at, and a wheezy baby-organ to listen to.
“Lawrence Mooney (Valentine in ‘ Faust ’) is a
big, burly, dark bhoy, the image of a priest.
Cecihe Lorraine, a pretty woman, whose figure
doesn’t promise to remain so youthful as Nellie
Stewart’s, wore white with pale-blue baby-ribbon
threading her lace-tucker.
“The local Chaucer celebration was not more
than might have been expected. Chaucer himself
wrote that ‘ the grettest clerkes been noght wisest
men,’ and Profs. Morrow and Tucker, though they
may be ‘ great clerkes, ’ are neither very wise nor
very interesting. The affair was a social field day
for University graduates, however. The number
of women wearing academic hoods gave one the
impression that there are a great number of highly-
schooled, if not well-educated, women in
Melbourne. Moreover, a pretty woman looks
especially charming in hood, gown and trencher,
more so if she dresses up to the colors of the
hood. Scholarship certainly doesn’t seem to have
destroyed the good looks of the Melbourne girl
grads. John Madden gabbled fluently about
Chaucer without conveying the idea that he had
ever read a line of the poet’s works. He would
gabble on Confucius, Lucretius, Colley Cibber, or
the poet Burns just as fluently.
“ A cluster of Roses of Persia brightened the
Princess d.c. on ‘ Trovatore’s ’ last evening. Our
only baronet (at the Opera every night) left his
box for a bit and squatted on the steps beside the
just-arrived charmers. A fat, little, old ladies’
man, in large checks, who had been intermittently
slumbering, woke up with a start and tried to
weep on S’Rupert’s shirt-front in a paroxysm of
ecstacy over those ‘ ’squisite gels ! ’ Sheridan,
Lauri, and Bracy, with the respective wives of
their bosom, looked grave as deacons.
“ Tenor Salvi’s attractions grow on she-hearers,
but he and soprano Lorraine apparently hunt in
couples, and there’s a haunting dread afloat that
they 11 presently turn out to be a signed and
sealed married pair.
‘‘Opera-goers interested in Mdme. Slapoffski’s
‘ Trovatore ’ innings found her Leonora, though
waistless, rather winsome to look at, in deep-pink,
with jewelled-net Medici collar. She was resource-
ful and at home on the boards, and her voice
sounded trained to a hair. Nevertheless scribe’s
heart _is _ ‘ true to her Poll,’ otherwise Cecile
Lorraine in the same part. The latter’s soprano
is fresh and artless and her matronly figure topped
by a comparatively youthful face. The grace of
La Slapp’s stage deportment is dislocated every
two minutes by the way she kicks her train, in
clear-the-deck-prepare-for-action style.
King-Hedley, the Australian actor engaged by
Beerholm Tree for the part of King Herod’s
physician, is to have as a colleague beautiful
Maud Jeffries, Wilson Barrett’s ex-leading lady
now billed for the role of ‘ Marianne.’ otherwise
Mrs. Herod. Mummer Hedley, a big, non-push-
ful fifty-vear-old, is still so much in love with his
art that he revels in the smallest impersonation
and even cherishes tender memories of that burnt-
cork Patagonian character which once fell to his
share in a cronk play at Melb. Royal.
“The marriage of a medico (not long divorced)
and a fair and lovely Hebe happened in a R.C.
church t other day. The lady played heroine in a
sensational romance a few years ago, when she
was engaged to a certain bachelor. The gentle-
man did not fulfil his engagement of marriage
but paid handsome damages for his breach of con-
tract, married a girl in his own set, and burnt his
boats behind him. People had forgotten all about
the Hebe and the romance, and the cheque for
heart-salve, till the appearance of the marriage
announcement the other day.
“A shocking tragedy caused the postponement
of a wedding (out Camberwell way) a few weeks
ago. The day before the event the brother of the
bride-elect (an only daughter) mysteriously disap-
peared. Inquiries failing to trace his where-
abouts, a search was made all over Melbourne
Up to 12 o’clock on the eve of the wedding the
friends of the family maintained a feverish hunt
and at last had to give up in despair. The wedding
was postponed, all the invited guests being informed
of the reason. About five days afterwards the
announcement of the brother’s death appeared in
the papers, but nothing has since been ascertained
of the manner in which it occurred. The rumor
of his body having been found in the Yarra can
have no foundation, since the papers gave no
account of an inquiry or an inquest, or, in fact
anything relating to the sudden and mysterious
end. As the bride-elect fancied herself the
innocent cause of his death she has put off her
wedding indefinitely, and is given up to unutter-
able grief.
. “The Melb. voter is a much brighter humorist
than he was 10 years ago. Resurrections of
Matthew Davies, James Munro, Mirams, and
other good marks for satire have developed
a turn for ready comment in ‘A Voice.’ The
person who interrupts the candidate is almost
invariably A Voice. He was at Duncan
Gillies’ meeting the other night, and when the oily
little old bachelor ventured to think that ‘ women
have higher duties to perform than going to the
polls/ A Voice wanted to know why Duncan
hadn’t given one of ’em a chance to do her duty.
Duncan Gillies as an upholder of the Higher
Woman is certainly an impressive sight.
“ As the Preacher remarks —‘All is vanity’ in
this world. I’ve just heard a touching story of
the late curate of one of Melbourne’s toniest
Anglican churches. Years ago he threw in his
little lot with the holy bachelor brotherhood,
who bound themselves not to look upon the
Woman when she is red; nevertheless, lie even-
tually got engaged to one of the daughters of a
suburban family. It was rather a shock to him,
no doubt, when the elderly father of the lady
sprung a comparatively youthful stepmother upon
the family, but the affianced shepherd was not
too upset to face the altar. Meanwhile he had
been appointed to an up-country living, and, after
the honeymoon, he brought his bride back to
the parental domicile, preparatory to bearing her
off to the vineyard.
“ Well, with a view to making a favorable first
impression on his expectant parishioners, the gay
ex-curate bought a brilliant outfit for the journey;
clerical ‘ togs ’ of the smartest cut consistent with
godliness, expensive hat, boots, and so forth.
The luggage had already been sent away]
when the happy pair started to follow it!
They made an early start, and this was.
lucky, for, as the departing masher was walk-
ing down the gravel path with his bride,
turning round at intervals to wave last adieux to
her sisters, he fell backwards into the fountain
basin. His plight, when his better half fished him
out of the ornamental waters, was simply awful.
Wet to the skin, new clothes painted green with
slime, tears in his eyes, and on his head a tadpole
or two. Everything, of couse, had to betaken off,
except his broad-rimmed hat, which lay wrecked
at the bottom of the fatal fountain basin, and the
trouble now was to get other garments and fix
him up nice and dry in time to catch the train. A
parlormaid' rushed round to the house of a neigh-
bouring curate, and breathlessly borrowed an old
suit, a battered hat, pair of broken boots, and
some underwear—everything but a shirt. Within
20 minutes of his calamity the poor cleric was
smuggled off to the station in a cab, the wildest
caricature of his former self. The shabby bor-
rowed suit was six sizes too big for him, the hat
came down to his ears, and the coat had to be
pinned across his neck to conceal the loss of his
linen. In this deplorable condition the shirtless
shepherd went to meet the parishioners whom he
had hoped to dazzle.
“The Hopetouns apparently have still just the
same neat little family as of yore, two boys
Victor etc., etc., aged 15 or so, and ‘Charles
Melbourne,’ somewhere about eight. The
younger, don’t forget, is a feat’- jr in our cap as
shown by his name. Let us hope that Australian
air won’t affect the Hopetoun household in the
same way as it did before, for we all know if the
wretched parents attempt to call a future little
stranger (male or female) anything but ‘ Sydney,’
the very Widow of Windsor would smart for their
temerity.
“Pa Hopetoun already trains his chicks in the
way they should go to popularity, pleasantness
and peace. Son and heir, it is printed, made his
maiden speech by way of farewell to the Hope-
toun tenantry. Young Hopeful said that future
summer holidays would see him (the speaker) and
little brother rolling home from far Australia to
Bonnie Scotland for ‘father doesn’t want us to
grow up strangers to our own home.’
“ Pity Hopey didn’t give just one of his popu-
larity pills to poor young Beauchamp, ere the
latter went forth to carry his N.S.W. cross. A
nun, over from Sydney side, says that one at least
of the Orange rows fanned up round his Ex. was
the result of a misunderstanding. Throughout a
certain inland trip, says my informant, he gave
next to nothing except a solitary £5O donation to
a convent. Hence the fuss ! But the Mother
Superior’s sister had nursed, or was nursing, a
wounded Beauchamp in the Transvaal, and letters
had come from the ministering sister to her Aus-
tralian relative, giving interesting particulars re-
garding her charge. The anxious enquirer got
little satisfaction out of his visit, for, much to his
annoyance, a bevy of local magnates had been
invited to meet him, while he had come prepared’
but to hear of ‘ unhappy, far-off things and
battles,’ only too recent, from the lips of a gentle
recluse.
Yours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


Largest and Best Company in the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The Reports of the State Insurance Departments show that the Mutual Life of New York
had, on December 31, 1899,
Larger Total Assets
A Greater Gain in Assets during the Year
A Larger Total Income AND
Larger Amount paid to Policyholders
than any other Company.
ASSETS, at end of 1899, £61,980,398.
Policies include Insurance, Investment, and Trusteeship, as required. Write for particulars, giving
name, address and date of birth, to “ The Manager,”at any of the undermentioned Branch Offices.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Branch Offices :
SYDNEY— Company’s Building, Martin Place.
MELBOURNE—2B9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—2IO Queen Street.
ADELAIDE— 73 King William Street.
PERTH —St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART— 93 Macquarie Street.
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
HATS. HATS. hats..
Mountcastle & Quaids
Patent Grease : Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes titted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. IVSountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
The old difficulty of insuring valuables against
fire and burglars has come up again. It is, however,
becoming an acknowledged fact that it is impossible to
arrange a satisfactory insurance. The Sydney Safe De-
posit has overcome the difficulty by offering to secure to
insurers the articles themselves in their fire and burglar
proof vaults, and thus, by the payment of a comparatively
small premium in the way of rent, avoiding all possibility
of loss. The system is most interesting, and the manage-'
ment invite a" call for inspection. The Safe Deposit is
situated at the back of Paling’s, off George-street.*
Worth Knowing!
That RAFFAN’S
Bronchial Catarrh
Remedy is endorsed by Doctors to be one of
the First and Best Tonic “ Pick-me-ups ” in Mental
and Physical Breakdown. After a Single Dose you
feel a Sturdiness and Firmness of Nerve, as if some-
thing had become suddenly Unbound, and given its
Liberty. Hundreds of persons who have been in
search of some such reliable Remedy admit that the
Rapid and happy results following its use are posi-
tively marvellous. Affords immediate relief in Bron-
chitis, Catarrh and Asthma. The preparation was
made by a London physician and sold for a Fortune.
It is now being bought by the public for 2/-, or per
post 2/8. R. RAFFAN, 3 Garraway’s Rooms, Queen’s
Walk, MELBOURNE.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
“ Kipling, an inspired jerry-builder of
Bong.”—Sydney D.T.
One of the present Cabinet says the Tur-
ner Ministry was turned out because two of its
members were too fond of liquor.
Mrs. J. S. Mitchell, who died last week at
Sydney, was a daughter of George Allen, the first
solicitor admitted to practice in N.S. Wales.
“All yous in favor of this motion ’old up
yer ’ands. Now, all yous against it. Carried
unanimously! ” The Mayor of a big city—in
Kamschatka.
The bill of divorce filed against Nellie
Stewart reminds a disgusted public that her
maiden name was —Towzey ! She married a Row,
and now she’s got it.
From Melbourne Age :
Recent Patents: Improvements in hairpins; W. E.
Gladstone, Invercargill.
Shade of the G.O.M. !
Among the N.S W. grotesqueries of the
week was John See’s official commendation of Joe
Chamberlain on the Boer war. And still such
political flatulences have, ere this, attained their
object—a title.
H. Y. Sparks, who lately died at Adelaide,
was chiefly famous as the man who tried to cow-
hide Kingston in Victoria-square one morning.
He was Adelaide manager of that absentee Lon-
don corporation, the S.A. Company.
Jimmy Governor’s wife is now an inmate
of a Sydney charitable institution. She wanted
Govt; to grant her relief on the ground that her
husband had deserted her, but instead was
afforded assistance as above indicated.
Premier Seddon has lost another ot his
old-age pensioners—Mere Ngatahuhu Purdy, who
died recently at Auckland, aged 103. She had a
grown-up son at the time of Heke’s war, and he
and her third husband were drowned 30 years
ago.
Mr. Nicholas Lockyer, of N.S.W. Cus-
toms, who goes into the Federation with the
prospect of high office, is son of the military
Lockyer who practically started white settle-
ments in Westralia and Queensland. The same
old major did a lot of valuable exploration m
N.S.W. 70 years ago.
It is interesting to notice how, though, of
course, they vote against him, they refrain from
S iking Kingston with a stick in S.A. Leg.
ouncil. Even with Baker, the President, by far
the ablest of the Tories, it is “Does the right
honorable and learned member think lie is in
order \n pursuing that line of argument ” and so
on.
The late Cogdon, P.M. (Vic.) was sus-
pected of putting his handsome beard in curl
papers. On one occasion, when he was staying
at the Port Phillip Club Hotel, Melb., an acquaint-
ance of his gave a waiter half-a-sov. to raise an
alarm of fire soon after he had retired to rest.
The P. M. promptly appeared in the corridor with
his beard curl-papered most elaborately.
Related
that when
Hori Grey
was in Mel-
bourne some
years ago
there wait-
ed on him an
old woman
who had,
when a girl,
been lady’s
maid to his
wife. “Your
business,
mad am ? ”
The old lady
placed on
the table a
book pre-
sented to
her by him-
self and wife
in their
honeymoon-
days. The
old man
looked long
(he had been
very fond of
his gir 1-
wife) at the
handwriting of her he had been separated from
for 40 years. “Your price, madam, for this
book?” “Sir, money would not buy that book.
But your influence .” At the word ‘ influ-
ence” the book was passed back, the bell touched,
and Vue old lady shown out.,
Premier M’Lean is working the patii-
otic ” racket very hard. In his Gippsland address
he lashed the electors to howling with vain-
glorious references to his son away “gh ting tor
Queen and country ” in S’Africa In the teeth of
this the man whose son stayed here, fight 1 g
Australia with a pick or an axe, is not supposed
have a dog’s show.
Speaker Mason CVic.) relates that an old
acquaintance of his, who lives in the i • • •
backblocks, came to Melbourne lately and in-
quired for him. “ A’ve coom to see Mr. Mason,
He said. “ A’ve heard that he has somethin of a
Doseetion here. They call him tie 1
talker, it is, a’m thinkin’.” The bushman spoke
more truly than he knew.
Dr. L. Bernstein, of Lismore, who loses
his Govt, appointments and, in particular, the
initials J.P. for using seditious language, may
if he pines for them, get them back when g
of Govt, takes place. A member of N. S. W. Beg.
Assembly, similarly deprived a few yea a >
now “in honor,” and two members of the Beg.
Council have had like experiences.
E. W. Sugden, Master of Queen’s College
Melb. University, should be one of the in os t
widely-read men in Australia, in tli& re-issue
the big Oxford Dictionary, the editor, Dr. Mu r y,
acknowledges that, for letters A and ' .•■
Sugden contributed between 0000 and 8000 quota
tions illustrative of the uses of words Cne man
by name Thomas Austin, furnished 165,000 quota-
tions.
Lucas, who was elected to S.A. e g-
Council on the Liberal ticket, but soon turned out
to be piebald or worse, said that the result
Kingston’s much-talked-of return to the Chamber
reminded him of the fable of the mountain and
the mouse. Kingston’s swift retort was that if
were a rat he wouldn’t open his mouth to con
demn mice, anyhow. Lucas knows now that that
gun is loaded.
Gov. Tennyson (S.A.) always prepares his
speeches carefully in advance, and so has estab-
lished a high average of eloquence What may
h vppen to the well-meaning man taken unawares
wis shown at the annual inspection of the local
Zoo. His Ex. had been spoken of as an almost
weekly visitor; and he said in reply that he
thought he ought not to be called a weakly visitor;
he w quite strong.” Not even the hyen
laughed.
So far as public memorials are concerned,
W. B. Dailey is the best remembered among
N.S.W. workers. He is in . marble in the Beg.
Council, in bronze in Hyde Park, in stained glass
in St Mary’s Cathedral, and m tablet m
Paul’s, London. Henry Parkes figures in a couple
of good pictures, but has been otherwise neg-
lected. John Robertson has the same fate, and
about the same may be said of all their pre-
decessors.
Apropos the Duke of York, Melbourne
Public Library has a curious new book entitled
“ George the Sixth.” It is a reprint of a work
written in 1763, prophesying what England would
be in 1900. The author made out that George liJ.
died in 1810, then George IV. and George V.
almost filled out the century. George VI. is m
full bloom in 1900, smashing the French and
Russians both by land and sea There is no
glimpse of railways, steam, ironclads, electricity,
or any of the modern improvements.
IN FLAGRANTE DELICTO.
MRS. T OM: “Did I see Mr. Toms being rude to you just now?”
MARY: “I don’t know, ma’am, but he apologised —he ’adn’t his glasses on, and
he thought I was you.”
One Australian Chief Justice who hopes
to become a State G-overnor is using great per-
sonal influence on local press and politicians to
prevent a cutting-down of the salary attached to
the office. He is a wealthy man, and childless
too.
A REAL GAME ’UN
FAIRY : "Hoo! Chase me! Don’t that bloke
love ’isself!”
WOSTER : “ Well, I reckon he docs; that’s the
coot wot give our old man three years.”
Ex-Premier John Downer, Q.C., although
now somewhat of a political back uujnber in S. A..,
has definitely made up his mind to stand for the
Federal Parliament. He lately married a young
and handsome Sydney lady and his slumbering
ambitions are re-awakening. His chances of elec-
tion to the Senate are moderate, and if he gets in
his personal friendships with i'cderal leaders will
probably win him a Judgeship or something
equally good.
Lasl week, S.M. Herald reported that
two N.S.W. solicitors had been called upon to
“show cause,” etc. They were described by the
Herald as (say) “ Mr. P. and Mr. Me.” Now,
if the Herald believes in keeping the names
“ dark,” why even quote the surname initial ? It
is manifestly unfair to other solicitors whose sur-
name initials might be identical with either of
those of the cited two.
Henry Small, of Ryde (Sydney), who died
the other day at 04, made a very early demise for
a member of a singularly long-lived family. His
father —a native of N.S.W.—lived to 95, and his
aunt, the late Mrs. Oakes—said to have been the
first-born wnite Australian —was 93 at death. Of
eight surviving brothers and sisters, the eldest is
over 80 and the youngest 57. The earliest age of
death amongst five of the previous generation, on
the paternal side, was 85.
A few years back England professed itself
horrified at the crimes of Sultan “ Abdul the
Damned,” and held enormous meetings to testify
its abhorrence. The other day Her Majesty de-
puted Admiral Sir John Fisher to present her
congratulations on the occasion of the aforesaid
bultan’s birthday celebrations ! Moreover, orders
were issued that the British Mediterranean squad-
ron was to be illuminated in honor of the afore-
said Alxiul the Damned ! !
The imperishable Randolph Bedford is
having another shot at Vic. politics, and is now
Liberal candidate for Bourke West, trying his
darnedest to grab the seat from that mossy fixture
Staughton. Bedford’s darnedest is a thing which
it is impossible to overlook, and Bourke West is
having the liveliest shaking up it has experienced
for 18 years. Evidently David Syme has adopted
Bedford, as the Age is now manifesting quite a
benevolent interest in the young man.
Kingston says he can’t sleep at night for
fear the atmosphere of S.A. Leg. Council will get
into his bones and make him a hardened Tory
The ex-Premier was 50 on Oct. 22, and three days
before his birthday he had assisted in getting an
Early-Closing Bill through the Council for the
first time in its history. It will be impossible to
secure Household Suffrage this session, however,
and Kingston lias shortly to choose between
Federal office and remaining in local politics until
his cherished measure becomes law. For Aus-
tralia’s sake it is to be hoped he will decide for
Federal politics.
That ready debater and well-read man,
Jos. Syrnes, ex-Wesleyan cleric • and longtime
Melbourne’s boss agnostic, erstwhile a valued
associate of Bradlaugh, talks of giving up his
Saper, the Liberator, and returning to England.
Reason—no money. The root cause no doubt is
that young Australia doesn’t care a rap about
higher questions than horse-racing, cricket and
football. While the oldsters are mainly conserva-
tive in the matter of religion, the young ’uns,
though in reality freethinkers, give no attention to
such things. From a clerical point of view, the
young Australian is worse than an agnostic ; he is
an utter indifferentist.
Hall Caine, during his last visit to the
U.S., received a letter from a death-condemned
murderer piteously requesting a visit,, and when
Caine went the condamne said that, during his
imprisonment, he had been permitted to read
“ The Christian,” and it had done him so much
good that he thought he could die happy if he
could get a few words of comfort from the author.
The novelist was much affected, prayed with the
assassin, and kissed him on the forehead before
leaving. But the very next day, goes on the story,
two illustrations of the scene—founded on snap-
shots—appeared in a N.Y. daily, the editor of
which had offered the prisoner lOOOdol. for his
family if he could succeed in obtaining the inter-
view.
“Tommy” Taylor, the juven-
ile-looking and blatant cold-tea mem-
ber for Christchurch (M.L.), is the
antithesis of the ancient Taylor who
preceded him in the representation
of that constituency. The old un
was responsible for the wildest spon-
taneous laugh ever heard in M.L.
Parliament. W. P. Reeves referred
to Tuvlor and Fysh as “ Arcades
arnbo.” Taylor took this as being
some insulting, nigger-minstrel allu-
sion, and indignantly protested
against being called an “ Arcady
Sambo” by any jumped-up young
jackanapes. He and Reeves were,
however, firm friends, and explana-
tion patched matters up. Taylor and
Alfred Saunders (the Nestor of the
M.L. House) were a picturesque old
couple,'but Taylor lacked the flowing
mane and massive head of Saunders.
Not' generally known in Australia
that Saunders has given to the poul-
try world, in his “ Our Domestic
Birds,” the most practical common-
’ sense book on the chookie ever com-
piled. The old man has been an
enthusiastic, breeder for over 60 years,
and took the first fowls into Nelson
province. His book had a big sale,
and bigger reviews in England. He
reared iiis family as simply as lie
reared his flocks, and a tine lot they are. feix-
feet-two Bant is editor of Lyttelton Times, and
was at one time a most fearless and solid sporting
writer.
“Miles" : Roberts will not and, indeed,
cannot fill the office of Commander-in-Chief. His
health is bad. Recently he was in bed for a
fortnight. He can hardly sit a horse, through the
effects of an operation. He will just snatch the
honor, and retire early next year. But for the
last change of Ministry, Buller would be Com-
mander-in-Chief now. Rosebery was on the point
of making him such when turned out of office.
Buller has been unlucky in two other ways —first
through Kitchener’s rise, second through the war.
Alex. Byrne, who died in Melbourne re-
cently, aged 78, was for 40 years crier of Melb.
Insolvency Court Court. Thirty-five years ago,
when Higinbotham was Attorney-General, he
got an anonymous letter, stating that, contrary to
the rules of the service, Byrne kept a public-
house, in which he had a dummy. Higinbotham
sent for Byrne and handed him the letter. “ I
don’t ask you for a reply,” said he. “In justice
to you, I show you the letter” —and then he took
it and put it in the fire. Some other Ministers
would have secretly given it to a detective to
inquire about. But “Honest George” wasn’t
made that way.
Ex-councillor James Garten, who lately
died at Jolimont, Melb., aged 75, was a remark-
able athlete when a young man. For instance, in
the ’fifties, when he kept the big hotel on the
beach at the corner of Beach-street and Railway-
place, he swam across Hobson’s Bay from Sand-
ridge to YV illiamstown. About the same period
he, for a wager, jumped out of one Cask into
another in a series of ten or twelve, without
touc! ing the cask with his hands. Garton was a
humorist as well as an athlete. Most of his life
ie wore a full black beard —which, like Butters’,
never got grey. One day, acting on a sudden fad,
he turned into the barber’s and had it shorn ; and
when he was clean-shaven —for the first time since
he had had a beard —the mother that bore him
wouldn’t have known him. He was sure the wife
of his bosom wouldn’t. Straight home he went
and rang the bell. Mrs. Garton happened to open
the door, whereupon her lord assumed a German-
Hebrew voice, and demanded to see Mr. Garton.
Mrs. G. said he wasn’t at home. The stranger
said it was all nonsense, and lie must see Mr.
Garton. Mrs. G. told him he mustn’t be insult-
ing, and repeated that her husband was in town.
But the smooth-faced Hebrew gentleman became
abusive, and it was only when Mrs. G. sent for a
constable that Garton disclosed himself. Mrs.
Garton died not long since.
Printed that Sydney’s old friend, John
Alex. Dowie, at present of Chicago, “is now worth
£1,000,000 ; is at the head of a church he founded,
which has 50,000 members ; is the proprietor of
several hospitals, the president of a college and of
a bank, owns a faith-healing hotel, and the
greatest city of religion planned since the Mor-
mons set one up on the shores of Salt Lake. He
started lately in Pullman cars, and supported by
a large retinue, for the Holy Hand. Three flats
have been engaged for him at the Hotel Cecil,
London, and no end of money for Mt. Zion (the
town lie is building) is to be collected in Europe.
He is said to have travelled in state like an Eastern
potentate. He has appointed a time when he will
stand on the Mount of Olives and a time when he
will enter Jerusalem. He controls millions of
dollars and thousands of minds In his tabernacle
in Chicago a few Sundays ago the entire congrega-
tion stood up and said they would vote for what-
ever Presidential candidate their leader selected.
He has a larger personal following than any other
man in Chicago. There has been a ten years’
crusade against him and his works, but it has
totally failed. Dr. Dowie had the training of a
Congregational minister. He calls himself “the
fighter of the devil.” He also fights secret
societies, the use of tobacco and alcohol, the medi-
cal profession, the press, and the habit of eating
pork. He fights them all in his own way. When
he is not busy with them he is working with his
faith-healing, or planning and carrying out big
business enterprises. Zionites give up tobacco,
drugs, liquor, and secret societies on joining the
sect, and present the doctor with 10 per cent, of
their earnings. One cannot help reflecting this is
nice for—Dr. Dowie.”


MAGONOCHIE’S
PACK EACH YEAR MORE
FISH THAN ALL OTHER
BRITISH FISH PRESERVERS
COMBINED.
FrcSb NerriosS
Kippered N^rri ogs
HcrriogS *0 Tonjato £a6ce
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/0 per Day,
<» £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
“ The Australia " is not a cheap
hotel. But it is the best hotel
in the Southern Hemisphere; and
you cannot obtain the comfort,
attention, table, and general ex-
cellence of “ The Australia ” any-
where else for 60 % more money.
J. SMITH, Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
“Bullfrog”: What timea the Darling
pirate has ! Aa a rule, he works at some riverside
shed during shearing; then he starts down-stream,
for Renmark or Mildura fruit-harvest. On the
way he fishes, or shoots wild duck, for which all
the stations will exchange rations, so that if he
favors Mildura, he arrives with a fair stock of
tucker. By the time fruit-picking starts there is
quite a fleet of boats, so an old man stops to look
after them, and shift the mooring pegs as the
river falls; the rest go out on the settlement to
work. It is April by the time the raisin-grapes
are off; then the boats are hauled out and painted,
fishing-lines and ammunition renewed, books
swapped, and away the pirates go, without a
care on their long pull up the Darling. Four
months till shearing, but they camp a week here
there, where there is a patch of ’possums, or
rabbits are extra plentiful. They wait near a
station or woodpile till a hawking-steamer comes,
and then they sell the skins, and so dn till shear-
ing.
* • * *
This is told as a fact authenticated by
several persons in the West. A certain bush-
ranger was betrayed to the police by a man who
had previously befriended him, and had been be-
friended by the latter. Result, the highwayman
was riddled with bullets by police while going,
with a bridle on his shoulder, to catch his chest-
nut horse early in the morning. A son of the
betrayer born subsequently, and now living, has
on his back a growth of chestnut hair in the shape
of a bridle, and on his body marks corresponding
in number and location to the bullet-wounds in-
flicted on the bushranger.
* * * *
“ Weoro ” : Never tried any tinned
“bull” ( “_A.Gr.” B. 8/9/’00) but have had ex-
S>nence with fresh ram, when camped on the
arling in ’92 waiting for shearing. They were
killing a lot of aged rams, and we tried the flesh
all ways, but could not get rid of the musky smell
that was worse than the taste, till an old sun-
downer put a couple of legs in his tucker-bag and
buried them in cold moist ground for 24 hours.
The meat was then all right. This philosopher
had noticed that his dog would never eat the flesh
fresh.
* * * *
“80-Peep” : Couldn’t help noticing
Casey’s nose when “Dinnis ” and I took his
fencing-contract at 4s. 6d. a rod, posts to be “ two
fut in the ground, and divil a wun undher.” We
had just put a short one in at 15in. when Casey
came along, giving each post a mighty shake as
he passed. The last one wobbled a bit, and, says
he : “ Begorra, thish won’t do. I shmell a rat
here ! ” “ The fince is right enough,” says Dinnis,
“ and I don’t like to commint upon a man’s per-
sonal appearance; but, judgin’ by theiligant nose
ye have an ye, it ud be a small matther for ye to
shmell a bear .”
* • * *
When anybody who knows a little about
the matter wants to show what still can be done
at sheep-raising and wool-growing in the droughty
salt-bush and mulga country of Centralia, one
particular station is nearly always pointed to. The
proper thing to do when that station’s name is
mentioned is to say : “ See what brains and long
study and experience can do.” But The Bulle-
tin has found a copy of the agreement this
station asks some of its employes, including
all the rouseabouts at shearing-time, to sign ;
which accounts for some of the profits. The
men (plenty of “rousers” are married far-
mers with families) agree to work for 3s. 6d. a
day, “ and proportionately for every portion of a
day” (there is often a lot of waste time at a
shearing-shed); rations to be supplied at cost,
plus carriage, plus 10 per cent. ; if workmen
leave voluntarily, or through sickness, 12s. 6d. a
JOHN KNEW WHERE TO LOOK.
TIN LUN (at Heaven's gate): “Let me in, Peter
—me welly goo’ Klistian Chinaman.”
PETER: "Have you paid all your debts?”
TIN LUN: "Me pay evely one before me die.”
PETER: “ Did you pay lawyer Smith in Sydney?”
TIN LUN: “Me pay lawyer Smith, but no gottum
leceipt.”
PETER: “ You must get one, John.”
TIN LUN: “ Whaffor? You tinkum me want to
lun orl alound a hell findurn lawyer Smith
gettum leceipt—whaffor!”
week to be deducted from amount due, but if
they be discharged, 15s. ; cost of conveyance to
the shed to be deducted. Also, “No profane or
language or singing to be allowed in the
sned. Ho this is the prospect. A man is six
WG i H' 6 8 sa ysan honest “ damn,” and is
sacked. He waited two days for shearing, lost
two days through sickness, and averaged 5J work-
ing days a week. Result, leaves with 6s. 3d. in
ms pocket—less his cost of conveyance to the
station. If he didn t get the sack he would have
c * mor , e -, And men travel hundreds of miles
after bUiets like that, and live like savages while
they keep them, and work hard as much as 11
hours a day. And that station isn’t worse than
dozens more.
* * * *
Notice taken from a wayback boiling-
down dance-room:—
No persons or person is alowed to dance mor than
wonce or twice runing with the same partener
Any young lady requested to dance with a jentelman
and refuses will be called upon to give an explanation on
the matter
this rule will be strickely enforced
' . ... Strick Notice
will be taking of this
all those young men wishing to Join will please pay in
their mony by Tuesday 14 will be to late to join this
n?ght e i e ast ieClded ° n by the ClUb ” B meeting on thursday
'•• » «
The miners at Tarcoola (S.A.) held a race-
meeting last month. There are about 500 people
on the field, of whom some 150 are teetotallers,
but the others consumed the contents of 90 cases
of whisky (1080 bottles), the result being that no
work was done by anybody for a week. The
Mines Minister, in speaking of Tarcoola and its
prospects, cited this whirling' orgie as a proof of
the prosperity of the district.
* * * *
At a recent meeting of a Southern N.S. W.
Pastoral and Agricultural Society, a member pro-
posed that the annual show be postponed from
February to March, as the former month was too
hot for delicate women and pigs. True bill !
* » * *
Some day, when the Royal Commission
has finished inquiring into the Western (N.S. W.)
pastoral industry, Govt, might do worse than
appoint another to investigate the condition of
the men engaged in that industry. . That Com-
mission ought to have special instructions to
study the sanitary accommodation at shear-
ing sheds; also whether at some stations the
men are not plundered through exorbitant over-
charges for stores and rations, and whether they
are not practically compelled to patronise the
station store by means of a heavy commission
which any travelling hawker has to pay to the
station on his sales.
* * * *
S. Australia’s Gov. Tennyson startled an
Adelaide audience t’other day by protesting
against the use phosphorus in rabbit des-
truction.. “Surely,” he said, “there is some
drug which will kill them in less than two or three
days, and without inflicting excruciating pains.”
* * * *
“ Tiboo ”: Printed that there is a law
forbidding the importation to N.S.W. of angora-
goats. Is this true, and, if so, why was the law
passed ?
* • * *
“ Wiljar ” : Used to water about 1000
sheep daily at the small dam of a cocky. Once
through the panels—half-a-mile from tank —they
always made off at a mad pace in strings till they
reached the water, into which they instantly
plunged, literally covering it. Yet I never had
one drowned, though I nave seen old ewes so
blown-out with water —which most of them
quaffed in the swimming process—that they reeled
about after coming out. By the way, on a big
Vic. run, a few years ago, some 1500 sheep were
drowned in this way in one act.
* • • *
“Snell” : Forest-thinning is a pleasant
game in the summer, according to a man
off a relief-Job who enlightened me in a
railway-carriage t’other day. “It isn’t
hard work,” he said, “ but generally the
snakes are a bit tryin’ to a nervous
man. I was workin’ with a gang near
St. Arnaud last summer, an’ one
afternoon my mate, a feller named
Joe, had taken up a’ armful o’
sticks an’ bark, when suddenly
he fetches a yell, pointin’ with
his sticks towards my feet.
‘Jump! jump!’ sez he—‘a
snake!’ Just then I spots a
snake nipped between two twigs
in his armful, wrigglin’ like fury.
‘ A snake ! a snake ! ’ he yells.
‘Well,’ sez I, ‘you blanky
fool, why don’t you drop him ? ’ ‘ It’s
you,’ sez he. ‘ It’s you ! ’ sez I. We
jumped together. I was standin’ on
the neck of a daisy ’bout four foot
long all the time.’’
“ R.W.S.” : Before the
big timber on the Bogan was
all felled, scrub was practic-
ally unknown, but as soon as
the big trees were down up
came the scrub so fast that
some runs were practically
useless for a time.
* * * *
Gov. Tennyson to S.A. Aborigines Friends’
Association:—
Black women in the Northern Territory had very insuf-
ficient protection by law from the brutality of some of the
lawless white men there. The illicit trading in liquor
done with the blacks there ought to be stopped, for it was
ruining them body and soul. Blacks were even now being
carried away from their tribes by white men into virtual
slavery.
Let’s see; one of the reasons why we wiped out
the Boers was their inhuman treatment of the
Kaffirs, wasn’t it ? The Bulletin distinctly re-
members that Dr. Livingstone on Boer iniquities
was rammed down Australian throats from nume-
rous pulpits.
A “RUM” EXPERIENCE.
INQUISITIVE STRANGER (to “ Deaf
Ben,” one of the “old hands”
of Green Wattle Gully): “ Your friend says
he’s had fifty years’ experience of the district.
What’s yours?”
BEN: “Eh?”
STRANGER (louder): “ What’s yours?”
BEN (promptly): “ Mine’s rum.”
A patriarchal resident of Tamworth,
N.S.W., tells what looks like a complicated fiction
about the first criminal trial held in that centre :
It was in the depth of winter, and the jury were locked
up in a room with smashed windows and gaping cracks,
through which an icy wind swept. The only refreshment
supplied by the Court was cold water, and there were no
seats of any kind. The nearest publican, on learning of
their discomfort, came across with empty gin-cases, and
passed them through the window. Also, a bottle of the
best rum. They could not agree while the rum lasted,
and when the end of that came they began to shiver once
more. So they jumped on the gin cases and made a fire,
but their fuel soon gave out. The Judge left word that
as soon as they arrived at a decision they were to be
taken over to the hotel. This was done. He then ordered
the jury to be handcuffed in twos to a bullock-chain, and
then marched them up and down the road till the morn-
ing came, when the decision was announced.
» * * *
Matters pastoral in Maoriland rapidly
approach a crisis. For years the fame of the
province’s frozen lamb has been so
great that a large portion of the an-
nual increase of the flocks has been
killed and sent ’Ome. Ewe lambs
have been specially in demand. The
result might have been foreseen. The
country is now almost denuded of
breeding ewes. Stock has gone up
enormously ; freezing works are closing
down. Three years at least will be
necessary to put the balance straight;
and during that three years Argentina
will have things practically its own way.
• * * *
“Shellback”: In Central Queens-
land I once saw a woman of German ex-
traction—after vainly trying to make a
young puppy drink milk from a tin plate
—place, the animal to her breast saying—
“ This is the best way.” Pup seemed used
to the operation and was quite at home
robbing the baby, which was on its
mother’s knee. Then picking up another
puppy, the lady observed—-“ This one is
the worst, he is always in a hurry.” She
was right; the little beast nearly choked
itself. Told us the pups were a nuisance
at night as they often squealed for at-
tendance, and that she kept them in her
room so that she could administer to their
wants. There was no habitation within
miles and I suppose solitude had made
the woman callous. But what sort the
husband 1
“ H. J. Mac.” : Be Australian aborigines’
burial customs (“Pelican,” B. l/9/’OO)
I remember when 1 was a lad, in the valley of Burra-
gorang, seeing the natives swathing an 8-year old boy’s
corpse, in tea-tree bark and binding it tightly with stringy
bark until it was compressed out of all human resem-
blance. The body was placed upon a bark platform
upheld by 10ft. poles, and was allowed to remain there for
about 5 weeks. It was then taken with much yell and
“yabber” and deposited in the hollow of a gum-tree,
about 30ft. above the ground ; the darkies afterwards shift-
ing camp about 6 miles away. The tree was about 65 chains
from our house, and after standing the horrible stench for
about 3 weeks my father set fire to the tree one evening
about dusk ; with the result that in less than two hours
the house was surrounded by angry blacks, who
tried to set fire to it in turn, and my father had
to shoot three of them before assistance arrived.
The same tribe of aborigines often carried their children’s
corpses about with them for years, though at other times
they buried their dead forthwith, always making three
graves parallel with each other and placing the cadaver
in the middle one. Some oddly-shaped white stones were
laid upon each of the graves, and changed every morning
for four weeks. The object of this proceeding and of the
three graves now to puzzle the Evil Spirit who was ex-
pected to come cruising around during the night after
the corpse’s spirit; and was expected to sink two duffers,
the Ist and 3rd, and then clear out disgusted at his dis-
appointment. I may add that I consider Mr. H. Stock-
dale egregiously wrong in everything he has contributed
to The Bulletin on this subject, and that it is well-known
that no hard-and-fast ceremonial rule exists in connection
with the burial of the dead of any given tribe—especially
in N.S W. and Vic.
“Canip”: Was recently coach-travelling
on a road rough as the path of the virtuous. My
own trouble was to keep my head
from shooting through the roof and
the rest of my body from making
spasmodic excursions in various
directions, but my companion’s
solicitude was all for a cockatoo in
a cage. “You seem to think a
lot of that bird,” I remarked.
“An’ so I orter,” was the re-
\ ply. “’E’s earned me two
\ ’undred quid this year.”
Learned then that the bird’s
owner was a disciple of
Ali Baba, and carted
“cocky” round to coun-
try racecourses. Cocky’s
biz. was to draw sweep
tickets out of a box ; mar-
I bles, &c. “’Ow’d I teach
’im? Well, I uster tie a
string round ’is neck, set
’im on a table, and dror ’im
along by the string to a box
as ’ad tickets in it. Then I
says, ‘ Cocky, pull a ticket,’
grabs ’im by the ’ead,
shoves it into the box, opens
his beak, sticks a ticket in it,
’olds it tight shut, and drors
’im back by the string to other
end of table afore I lets go ’is
’ead, so ’e can drop the card.
Oh, it was a long time afore ’e’d
do it on ’is own. Sell ’im ? Not
fer fifty lovely quid ! ”
“Embee”: Be bullet
, vagaries. Once, when I was
marking, a dead tree-limb deflected a bulled
back to earth at my feet, and, later on, an-
other, which rnust have traversed the most of a
circle, wounded a bull. The bush will be dan-
gerous when rifle-clubs get going in it.
* ♦ * *
Yon Kotze ” makes some disparage-
ments about Townsville:—
Townsville mainly consists of a flaring streak of damna-
tion baptised Flinders-street; a large rock covered with
soap advts. and yclept Castle Hill by the benighted
natives, and an overpowering smell. The latter emanates
from Ross River, a lagoon which, I believe, in that respect
“lays over” any other navigable water in the world.
Unfortunately the smell does not confine itself between
the mudbanks, and as the common variety of deodoriser
is powerless, the Municipal Council has to let out contracts
for the removal of the overflow at so much a yard. Lately,
on account of the plague scare, the Health Board has
advised the employment of a bucket-dredge.
Townsville’s crowning glory is her harbor. Envious
outsiders are in the habit of alleging various drawbacks to
the accommodation therein. They maintain the basin is
too shallow. But as there have been already £500,000
sunk in that same basin, and not a penny of it protrudes
above the surface, the vileness of the aspersion appears
obvious. These evil-minded folk quote the case of a
woman who tried to drown herself at high tide, but
failed on account of an inability to keep her head long
THE ETERNAL FEMININE.
PHYLLIS: “ Are you really going to visit that
odious woman?"
HER FRIEND: "Yes. Isn't it a nuisance! Any
message?”
PHYLLIS: “ Oh, give her my love.”


A PIAMONP
BUYER
h
Wants to see a LARGE STOCK to select from —naturally. In UNSET DIAMONDS
and PEARLS we have one of the Largest Stocks in Australia.
It enables customers to see the gems AS THEY REALLY ARE, without the flaws being covered by the
setting. Large buyers buy at lowest rates, and so are able to sell at lowest prices.
We have Ring and Diamond Ornament Setters of rare skill.
Plain Figures. . . .
. . . . Cash Prices.
FAIRFAX # ROBCRTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
WHISKY
AND
ORDER
BRANDY
AND
SCHWEPPE
enough under water. “Why didn’t you lie down?”
indignantly asked the presiding beak. A regretful shadow
sped over the features of the would-be suicide. “ I never
thought of it, your worship 1 ” she sighed.
Till lately one of the most prominent citizens was one
i u a *’ oa b w t>ose chief characteristics were a thirst for
alcohol and a habit of never paying for same. He would
plant his forelegs on the bar and joyfully empty any
bottle available, from beer to pot. cyanide. Once a bush
drunk went on a howling spree with Bill. That drunk
was a very famous drunk indeed and never before had
been beaten in the contest of long beers. They kept at
it from 10 a.m. till 5 p.m., though sad to say Bill never
shouted once. Then the bush-drunk, foreseeing defeat,
insulted his mate and refused further refreshment. With
one wild swoop Billy hit his companion where most of
the beer had accumulated, and, majestically stalking over
the fallen remains, put up his hoofs on the counter again,
and demanded more beer with both horns and great fury.
William, the Townsville goat, has never yet met enough
liquor to make him really incapable ; ‘2Bs. 6d. worth of
alcohol has been supplied him in one day, and then, being
put out at closing time, he promptly tried the side door.
* * • *
“Tassy”: Re par anent a tobacco-eating
ram. When H.M.S. Curacoa was on the Austra-
lian station the pet of the crew was a billy-goat
who would eat almost anything—but tobacco was
his favorite delicacy. Was visiting the ship, and
while on board took a cigarette out of a case, but
ere I had time to return it to my pocket “ Billy ” ,
had snatched it and swallowed cigarettes, case and
two half-sovs. that were in it.
• * * *
Out of about 50 men on the Midnight
Lead at the Feather only four (Italians) were
doing legitimate work. The rest devoted their
time mostly to two-up, and occasionally some of
them would stroll over to the Italians’ “dump” and
earnestly encourage the guileless foreigners in
their labors. Then, satisfied that the blanky
Dagoes were proving the ground for them, the
exhorters would rejoin the “school.” One morn-
ing, however, the Italians were discovered sending
down ore-bags which were evidently filled and
kept below, and also washing samples, promptly
discontinuing when anyone approached. Then in
all haste picks and shovels were seized, windlasses
rigged, and the crowd set feverishly to work to
strike the gutter. Hopes increased when at
night the Italians removed their windlass so that
no stranger could get down the shaft. Things
looked rosy until the fourth day, -when it was
found that the Italians had vanished during the
night, and a hurried examination of their claim
proved it a rank duffer, without a sign of wash.
Then the curses, of a badly-“had” crowd of
diggers filled the air, and they sorrowfully col-
lected their tools and left; the mournful row of
dumps bearing witness to their useless activity.
A few days later one of the disappointed met one
of the Italians in the street, and after luridly ex-
pressing his opinion of the trick, was answered
with a sweet smile—“Yel, you do nozzing. You
come to ze dump an’ you pick up ze rock, an’ you
say, ‘ Ha! ee’s zees bottom. Bettare go leetle
deeper.’ Zen you go ’way an’ you play ze two-up.
Ver ’ Bene ! —ve do ze vork an’ve find nozzing an’
zen ve zink you bettare find ze bottom too. And
you have found ’im. Bon ’ giorno, signore .”
Bishop White, of
Carpentaria, told in Bris-
bane lately of his meet-
ing in the Far West a
horse-team driven by a
woman whose husband
was dead. A boy of 14
and a girl of 12 were
helping the team along.
After leaving them, the
Bishop overtook some
bullock-drivers, who in-
vited him to dinner. The
subject of conversation
during the meal was the
little girl’s power of
blasphemy —at which
the bullockies professed
themselves horrified.
The little girl (they
averred) could beat them
easily. They wouldn’t
have minded anyone
talking to bullocks that
way, but it was simply
disgraceful to address
that sort of language to
horses.
“ Filer ” : Knjew of
a tame emu once at Bud-
gong (N. S. W.) who,
whenever he got the
chance, would make
straight for the kitchen,
knock down and smash
the first article of croc-
kery he came across,
and swallow the frag-
ments in short order.
“H. : Once had a
pet wallaby that, per-
force, lived mainly on
table-scraps, fruit and
potato-peelings, &c. Al-
so, he liked bits of meat,
and dearly loved a bone
to pick. At the time, I
regarded this carnivorous
leaning as quite a freak
of nature; but I have
since known of another
wallaby with similar
tastes. Are meat-eating
wallabies common ?
* *
A north - western
N.S.W. squatter, who
on different occasions
has dragged out of the
creek (source of household water-supply) two
drowned sundowners, has posted up near the fatal
„ j. „ “ DiJoo o.iimrlo l.oro
spot a notice : Please don t commit suicide here.
1 me deep dam in next paddock.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONTS.
So notice will be taken 0} communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must, appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
«*» «
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Nonier Odgers, or Moncur M‘Gee (or something
... .. , . ... . ,
llke that > : Your stol '-V (or something), hierogljphed on
diary-paper, and entitled “ Slioesgull ” (or something),
and apparently concerning somebody who was formerly
in .. H .M.’s 30th (Belooch.) Regt.”—so much is legible—is
, ... . ... , ,
to ° hard to read - We have a " smashed 0111 e - yes and
ruined our alleged intellects in wrestling with the MS.
of people, like you, who “ dash off ” little things ; and now
we are tired Alsoj we are getting really afraid about our
healths; for we notice that even undertaker Kinsela is
dead - So we are going to give ourselves a rest from the
spider-in-ink-fisted man Maori: British Constitution
onl - v requires Protestantism in two persons—the Sovereign
and Bord Chancellor. There is nought to prevent the
whole House of Lords pinning its coroneted hope
of salvation to R.C.-ism, or Mahommedanism, or Tao-
ism ; neither is there any legal obstacle in the way
of Parliamentarians, Judges, or vice-consuls having
a deep and ineradicable belief in the praying-
wheel or the Joss - stick as a means of Grace
Patriotic : One more such patriot, and the Common-
wealth’s undone W.P. : Poem emptied out on pave-
ment Foghorn: Can’t hear anything but noise
Mansfle id :No thanks Reg. Reader: There is one
stanza in “Lines to My Wife” that, strikes the electric
chain with which we’re" darkly bound—
Oh, Julia ! Would we again could Woo and Coo
And snuggle once more as we used to do,
Snatch once again the hasty kiss,
And meander in the Park with Benchy bliss.
Well, why can’t you ?... .C.W.: If clergymen of “ respect-
able” religions'are to have a legal monopoly.of the
guineas of those who ignore the famous “Don’t,” then
they ought to be compelled to go with their prey to
' : ) ulr<dl and do tde maTryuig in the temifie only. Also,
o e n . t State P erc°e U ! Tta7 steamer stories are ait too
« B teep,” and no paper of mixed circulation could live if
it published that graphic “Dancing,” however true
it may all be. You are very frisky this time.—
H. 8.: Eyre was probably not knighted because his rigor-
“
a kn i„hthood? Why, all sorts of political and social
horrors have been knighted... .L. : The ordinary lodge-
member who sweats the doctor—we aren’t speaking of
the political boss who loafs on the doctor and uses the
lodge merely as an electoral machine usually gets what
to helrt,*’punch" a® the ribs-and a
half-oz. of salts, with a dash of quinine to make it real
n ; ce Stobbs : Thanks, but we don’t put marmalade
0 n our own plate C. Jones : Would get us 7 years, and
ought to get you 14 Platypus: The A.N.A. is best
sized-up by sizing-up the hungry, designing, shallow,
self-advertising bounders who are its chief prophets. As
the a.N.A .organ’s allegation that The Bulletin fears
a.N,A. because the latter requires the suppression of
“ a ll obscene literature and indecent ad vts.,” it is only
necessary to point out that several bulky Jingo “ respect-
able ” weeklies have been stopped for indecency in the
post-offices of the various provinces; The Bulletin
(which linnts neither obscene matter nor indecent
advte ) ’ never. Also, The Bulletin (business d<
partment) sincerely promises to send the A.N./
CHIEF JUSTICE DARLEY FROM THE PAINTING BY
JOHN LONGSTAFF.
organ a bit of blue paper unless it goes slow. ..
C. Wellesley : But isn’t Georgia Hodson identical with
the present Mrs. Henry Labouchere ? C. A. : Barrister
llif ,£ ins jg an Irish p rotestant and a thorough-going
Liberal, but everyone who knows him is aware he’s a
AS IT IS IN MELBOURNE .
J OE: “ Is yours ’ avin ’ a go, Bill?"
B ILL: “ I dunno. Til tell yer when we go past the stand.”
■oyalist C.W.S. : Read." The War in South Africa—its
Causes and Effects,” by J. A. Hobson, the able author of
“ The Evolution of Modern Capitalism,” and you will very
speedily be cured of the Chamberlain-worship-disease.
Hobson, before the war, spent a year in the Transvaal in-
vestigating local conditions, and he writes with a knife.
Not a single Australian daily dared reprint his power-
ful summary-article from the Contemporary Review.
And Hobson's conclusions exactly foreshadowed what is
now happening with regard to labor in the Rand
Oomrah :18 pp. foolscap 1 What are you squeaking
about? You really expect The Bulletin to help you in
getting a bill passed to prevent the Tweed and Richmond
River Hindoo from engaging in dairy-farming! People
of your class were quite ready to welcome the sneaky nig.
with the pipey legs as a cheap laborer ; now that he has
saved money and is cutting in against you, you hypo-
critically talk “public interest”—and this in face of the
good old argument you all so often used when it suited
you—that the Hindoo is a fellow-citizen of the great
and glorious Empire. The Bulletin just loves
the Hindoo and hopes he will chew you a bit
Bushboy : More vacuous lispings of a green-sick soul
Mac. jun. : Where did you pick that up? Tom didn’t write
it, you know.... E.P.W. :We cordially sympathise with
you. No license for a merry-go-round with steam-organ-
and-whistle attachment should be granted for any site
within earshot of the general population. If the Govt.
• insist on permitting the establishment at Manly of a hell-
upon-earth, let it he well outside town so that anyone
who wants that sort of thing will have to go to
it instead of having it dumped down at his door
Rex. : Probably the money alluded to exists right
enough. It may be much or little—perhaps not enough
to pay costs of claiming. You observe nothing is said
about amount or where it is. It may be in England,
Peru, Greece, or the United States. Presumably a simi-
lar demand is sent to everyone of the name who can be
traced in the directory, and when the name happens to be
Smith or M‘Donald or Brown or Murphy, there
should be money in it. There are probably 5000
people of your name in the world, and your
chance of being the one who is entitled to an
alleged sum of money, amount unknown—well, you can
decide for yourself whether it is worth investing in
Narrara : " Smiler” Hales’ father was, like Henry Parkes,
a wood-turner. It is another old Broken-Hillite, “ Bob ”
Hales, who is the parson’s son A. W. Macleay: The
Bulletin does not advocate religious (i.e., dogmatic)
teaching in State-schools. It believes in the utter ex-
clusion of Bible-reading. How, for instance, can you
expect a Jew to allow his child to listen to the New
Testament ? The present Vic. absolutely-secular system
is perfectly fair to all classes Riv. : “Thrilling Ex-
perience ” doesn’t thrill worth a cent. Always give date
of pars mentioned C.H.S. : Thanks; will refer
to the matter Gobung : The disagreement is prob-
ably due to the fact that you apparently apply the term
“goanna” to all lizards bars P. : There is no
such word as “concensus.” “ Consensus,” a general
agreement of opinion, has nothing to do with num-
bering Flabby P : Lie about owl “ wringing ” his
own neck is antique Luke: Limps painfully
Yarrum : “ Mixed ” hardly worth print, and “ Orosby ”
unintelligible. Who was Nell? Niamed : Too vague
and inconsequent, and the verse-work is clumsy in places.
David G. : But you’re thinking of Asiatic cholera, and
this is probably only the so-called “ English cholera.”
Kay: Might be worse, but is much below mark.
Practice may do something for you. J.O.G. : Verse
rather lame and tame. - Prose sketch better, but also
lacks spirit Alex. J.G. : Sorry none suitable. You
have a fair turn of humor, but seem to lack the other
literary essentials....A.B. : The fact that his estimates
were passed without discussion is not so great a compli-
ment to Works Minister O’Sullivan as it looks. The
usual critics of the estimates are, to a man, Roads and
Bridges members, who are not at all sorry of the chance
to please the “spending” member of the Ministry....
ICdwd. J. : Thanks ; but no more on that subject
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
X.Y.Z. :Too unsavory to illustrate R.S. (Gippsland):
Drawing promising, but subjects unsuitable. You should
study at Vic. National Gallery life-class... ,M‘Kay : May
serve as idea.... Brixton B. : Pointless.... W.W., Jun. :
Submitted to artist Unavailable : Jeff.
A Boundary Rider’s Hardships.
“Although I have lived so long in this
district,” said Mr. Henry Gray, of George-street,
Singleton, to a special reporter who, having heard
of his remarkable story had the curiosity to seek
him out, “it is only during the last two years that
Singleton has been my home. For 21 years
previous I was a boundary rider, often camping
out and suffering such exposure to wet and cola
that Rheumatism came on, causing excruciating
pain in the joints and muscles ; the attacks were
so bad that for nine weeks I was bed-ridden —
powerless to do anything, and when I rose from
bed I had to resort to crutches. In cold weather
the pain was greatly aggravated, and my flesh
swelled and became so tender that I could not
bear it to be touched, My hands and arms
trembled so that I could not control them, I
staggered when walking, and was as miserable as
possible. I tried many remedies, liniments, em-
brocations, electric belts, and faithfully followed
the doctor’s orders, but with no beneficial result.
Two years ago I read a pamphlet concerning Dr.
Williams’ rink Pills and commenced them.
After using a few boxes the excruciating pains
disappeared. Since then I have had no return of
my ailments. I have regained my old strength
and activity, and am a wonderful example of the
curative properties of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
If other sufferers give these pills a honest trial
they will not be disappointed.”
The real cause of rheumatism is disordered
blood, often caused by irregular meals, exposure
and hardships, as in Mr. Gray’s case. Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills make rich, red blood and in-
vigorate the system, so that rheumatism is dis-
pelled. By their tonic action on the blood and
nerves they also cure anaemia, debility, liver
troubles, dyspepsia, muscular weakness, neuralgia,
sciatica, consumption, rickets, paralysis, ladies’
ailments, etc. Sold by chemists and storekeepers
and by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s
Place, Sydney ; two and nine per box, six boxes
fifteen and three, post free. Send postal note or
stamps. When purchasing mind you ask for Dr.
Williams’. Substitutes are dangerous.


SUNDAY FUNERALS.
NO
DYINC On
, Spsu&st\y
KukoaV _
of [Vfelboai'./e
'te sfr'Ke off
oZr Y T '5 r S“gS * frbce 5 S>o V
Wit \f otje'et' lessors /I
4
VR. BSSKT AND HIS TRADCCEBtj.
Speaking at the Brighton drill.room on
(Dr-Macanshth the chair),
Mri ‘Thos. Beni declared that'the present
education-system was a godless one. Bible 5
lessons were allowed after school hours.
There were more children to-day in the Sun-
day schools than in the State schools. He-
afterwards referred .to personal matters;
There were ladies going about Brighton, he
said, with “ZolaV’ under their arm traduc-.
ing his character. He asked them to look
to their own husbands, some of whom were’
oot fit to blacken _his (Mr. Bent’s), boots,-
1 I / JN
. (Wft'WibU
Voc, -jired off 170 S^u'i
00 y D u, £>ob
a/e utterly ° v 'j°w
l/ed J See l>erlu<i o[
PfouifT —
Bb
i. r^f,+) ,11111111 ?
ytmm :
l?ev OLU
.-
o\ rxy #%ietiyiA, ols r^
C % .. IJLJZ&L ,A
7° gj -f wK
p ■ , “”5 stt f , P-?''!f,+'i« e <re3 c<,t
fr uto
V* y /y
mXT //j|f
7g^| C
jJj Wearily oVf^
t 7 j
'fo bei, hfebF/£
jqtK^
9er °f
if >MyPottrVe G*b
•« TEd slo^
MELBOURNIANA.


Artist : “ I s’pose our readers will expect a. cartoon
this week on Mr. Heydon’s strictures upon his brother
lawyers V'
Brains of THE Establishment : “ Lawyers! great heavens,
no! While the law of libel stands as it does at ptt*
sent, we daren’t touch lawyers with a forty-foot pole ’*
■ (and in his excitement he fished out of the waste-paper
basket an “Ode to the Queen of Australia *' by J«f>e
Carruthers, and sent it up to the printer marked
"Urgent.” t -tv
'' Jn accordance with a
promise made by tbe Pre*
nu6r tP 8* deputation oi
clergymen some time ago, the
Sunday-closing laws were rigor-
ously enforced yesterday against
fruit and news vendors.
Parson (passing an orchard on
his way to church) “Now, if
we can get Parliament to pass a
short Act to stop fruit from
growing on Sunday, our victory
as an organised Christian body
will be complete I
JIMMY GOVERNORS CONFESSION.
Press Kbpobteb : —•
, t „«v Gov ERROR : “ Oh, yss; plenty <«**■ «g» “ 1 8
platform you can’t expect me to give it all away -
The Russian press declare that ihe tmns ot fhe
'\nglo-German agreement disclose an unjust sus»
piefon of Russia, “the traditional guardian of
Chlßa’s integrity.”
I Tbe "Novee Vreinya “ the Russian official or,
..„. f ._ thaf the territory oorth of tb@
Peiho is Russia’s sphere of influence, within
.Which the open-door colic, Is unmissable.
-r \ Some of the Russian papers declare that the
of China is pew inevitable
~y\\ SYD D.T.
All this proves nothing, except that the editor of the Syd-
D.T. reads his Russian exchanges more fluently than The
Bulletin would have given him credit for.
When captured, Jimmy was in a very weak 'Vll
condition For a fortnight he had lived on n
oranges and honey.
“ I have indeed tasted of the sweets of adversity,"
he remarked to his captors as he furtively wiped a
tear from his tired, sunken eye with a corner of his
ptolen blanket
■ • Mr. tSiiEATH : “My position is the same as a Supreme Court Judge, and l :
don’t believe in belittling that position.’ ’—(Extract from report of Military Comr
mittee proceedings published in Sydney *D.T. on September 28.)
Mr. Nbild : “A gentleman clothed with all the powers of a *Chief |
Justice, with a blafck-pipe
in his mouth, and
dirty boots on the tawfe.”
—(Extract from Hansard
report of Parliamentary
proceedings on Oct. 11±)
Seeing Archbjsho? Redwood
Off.
i By the aid of a telescope His Gface may he seen at the stem of
!the departing-ship playing his famous Cremona. The tune is “ Blest
he the tie that binds.” ,
'PARLIAMENTARY VISIT !
TO THE JAPS. ON ' i
SHARK ISLAND.
“Mr. D. O’Connor and other*
also spoke, the.speeches being B
I interpreted to .the men by Mr.
-Yasuda.”— Daily Paper.
The startling effect of a speech by Dan O’Connor, turned intoJapaW
is here_£eebly depicted by one of their own artists.
THINGS IN GENERAL.


POPULAR SONGS
POPULAR PIECES
No other Musical Publications in Australia oontain
such a variety of (food Songs and Music as
ĥ
Allan* 8
Australian
Ho. 15.—Popular Song's.
A Bandit’s Life (in G)
Harper
When the Tide Comes In
Millard
Love’s Sorrow Shelly
Heart’s Ease Champion
The Wanderer Schubert
O for the Wings of a Dove
Madoline Nelson
No. 16.— Popular Piano-
forte Pieces.
Pas de Charge (Galop)
Me Evoy
The Mermaid’s Song
Oesten
La Chatelaine Le Duo
Moonlight on the Lake
Wyman
Gondolied Oesten
La Sympathie Commetant
In My Cottage Near a
Wood Holst
Minuet (the Celebrated)
Boccherini
Always the Same, Price 1/-, or Posted 1/2.
Contents of Nos. 1 to St SENT FREE for the Ashing.
Ask your Musicsellers for these Numbers, or
order direct from
ALLAN & CO.
276 & 278 Collins-st.,
Proprietary Ltd.
Melbourne.
ħ
Conjuring
Apparatus!
Magical
Illusions!
ALL KINDS.
Illustrated Catalogue Post
Free anywhere.
WILL AJJDRAriT!,
MAGIO & BOOK ARCADE,
201 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
A SILVER WATCH
FOR NOTHING.
1500 GIVEN AWAY THIS YEAR. 1500.
WE HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OP OUR
Vy FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s
(Lady’s or Gentleman’s), to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading, of the follow-
mg puzzle:—
TH* C*MM*NW**LTH *ND PR*BP*R*TY
W*LL C*M« T*C*TH*R.
The only condition is that if your answer is correct you
purchase one of our Solid Sterling- Silver Chains to wear
with the watch.
SEND NO MONEY ; simply forward your answer, and
enclose stamped and addressed envelope, so that we may
inform you if you have won the watch.
We are making this offer solely with the object of intro-
ducing and advertising our goods.
„ Mr - E - Highman, of West Broken Hill, writes on 7th
May, 1900 : “lam happy to inform you that the lady’s
watch you sent my wife about 18 months ago is a little
gem, and has kept splendid time ever since. ... My wife
would not part with it for a fiver."
Address—THE MANAGER,
ENGLISH WATCH & JEWELLERY COY.,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. BOWMAN’S
Wholesale Boot Warehouse
h
You can have a Single
Pair at Wholesale Price,
14/6
6/6 Less than Retail Price.
Best Style.
Best Quality.
GUINEA
BOOTS
AT
14/e.
Our object is to do a very Large Trade at a very Sm<dl
Profit, and give the Public the benefit.
ALL SOUND ENGLISH BOOTS. NO BETTER MADE.
76a PITT ST., near Union Bank,
and 318 GEORGE ST., near Hunter St.,
also 14=5 KIiSfG &T., opp. Theatre Royal.
ĥ
PRlCE— Single Razor, 10/6 ; or with Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair Razors in Double Leather Case, 21/- ; or with Ivory
Handles, 30/- Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 each. This
Razor is superior to any in the market, and never requires
grinding. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to
Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE COMMONWEALTH
Lumber & Shipping Company Ltd.
CAPITAL :
£200,000, DIVIDED INTO 200,000 SHARES OE £1 EACH, of which 25,000 will be issued as
±ully .raid- Up and allotted to the Vendor as consideration for Special Leases obtained
by him for Tramway, Mill, and Residence Site, rights of access and right of Tramway
construction from leaseholders and owners of land, with all rights and privileges of
every kind in connection therewith.
The Vendor shall also be paid the sum of £22,000 in payment of 3043 acres of heavily-timbered
1 reehold Forest Land. 125,000 Shares are offered to the public, payable ss. on
application and ss. on allotment, and the balance in calls of Is. (if required) at intervals
of not less than three months. 50,000 Shares are held in reserve for future issue if
required. The Company to be declared formed when 100,000 Shares have been applied
All Moneys to be placed to the credit of the Directors, and in the
not being formed will be returned in full.
event of the Company
Provisional Directors :
C. A. LEE, M.L.A., Chairman.
Hon. A. KETHEL, M.L.C.
Hon. JAS. INGLIS.
E. JOHN FOX, Esq., J.P.
A FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co,)
Hon. JOHN SEE, M.L.A.
T. WADDELL, Esq. M.L.A.
B, WALKER, Esq. (N.Z. Kauri Coy.)
C. HENTY, Esq. (Parbury, Ilenty & Co.)
J. W. SMITH, Esq.
Bankers:
BANK OP NEW SOUTH WALES.
Solicitors:
PIGOTT and STINSON.
Brokers:
HANDLE and WILLIS, MARTIN-PLACE, SYDNEY, and STOCK EXCHANGE,
Auditors:
J. E. BOWES, Esq., Chartered Accountant.
Secretary and Offices :
ISSELL PERROTT, Esq., Mercantile Bank-chambers, Margaret-street, Sydney.
Application Forms for Shares may be had either at the Offices of the Comnanv
or from the Brokers.
THE objects of the Company are to work, under timber licenses direct from the Crown, the practically unlimited virgin
resources of a remarkably rich extent of forest lands in New South Wales, situated between Coff’s Harbour and the
T* q w NeW . England Plateau, and bordering on the celebrated Don Dorrigo range of country, and to acquire other areas in
N.S.W., and trade in other timbers as may from time to time be deemed expedient; also to acquire from the present lessee
special leases of 100 acres and 20 acres respectively for the purpose of tramway construction, mill and residence sites • also tn
acqmre from the vendor 3043 acres of dense forest land as freehold, all rights of access and right of tramway construction and
all the privileges in-connection therewith ; and further to acquire from such other person or persons as may be here,"ter found
necessary a right of way over any lands which it may be found expedient to cross in connection with the above-mentioned
tramway or otherwise in connection with the Company’s operations, the area of which may be said generally to embrace the
watersheds of the Orara, the Nymboida, the Bobo, and their numerous affluents. It il also to lnd run
specially-designed steamers. r r 1 uu
GREAT ADVANTAGES.
i , 1* be , ob ™ us inv f' that a lar « e miU equipped with all the modem appliances successfully adopted by the
large lumber firms in America and other countries capable of an enormous output, and having auxiliary factories to utilhe
ordinary waste material, situated alongside a well-appointed jetty, from which N.S.W., the other colonies and forehm
markets can be economically supplied with an abundance of excellent hard and softwood timber procurable’ from Pml
Lands adjacent to the Mill, and from the valuable area of freehold land upon which the forest is
command markets that cannot now be profitably reached owing to the primitive and costly method in vomie
The virgin forests that are now inaccessible to the ordinary Saw Mill will be made directly available by the proposed
Tramway, and to that extent secure the Company from undue interference or competition. The adoption of mechanical appli-
MlTtn wot t™ 8 . fTI^ U minimise the cost, amd assure large and constant supplies of logs in all seasons, thus enabling the
Mill to work to its fullest capacity, and the Company to contract for large orders within a much shorter time than now occu
pied, and to command every emergency that may arise from time to time in the lumber market
i , , The combination of so many economical advantages in connection with the establishment of this industry places it
m ustra asia > and a ® )r<^s fullest assurance for the continuance of a highly profitable and
SCOPE OP OPERATIONS.
the most modern machin h e e r° omPany ’ S operationS embraoes Primarily the establishment of one central mill fully equipped with
A Tramway Route has been surveyed which will give direct access to the Forest
The Central Mill is designed to cut 23,040,000 ft. of Pine or 14,400,000 ft. of Hardwood per annum on a ten hours
per day run, and the net profits, as shown by the careful and exhaustive reports of the Hon. Alex Kethel MLC -md R
Walker Manager of the Kauri Timber Co., Limited, which can be seen at the Company's Office, varftmAO per cent on a
pine output to 20 per cent, on a hardwood output on a capital of £150,000, with a large power of expansion. '
SUPPLY OP TIMBER.
~ , Tbe Hon. Alex. Kethel, M L.C after a careful personal inspection of the forests in the Nymboida District alone
estimates the standing timber to be not less than two thousand million feet each of hardwood and pine, besides considerable
quantities of beech and other timber of great commercial value, and on the 3043 acres of freehold he estimates there are not
!rV h p'V' 0 ’ 000 fe . ? f , t ‘ mber P er ac , re q uallt J ; als0 > re P° rts of Mr. John Duff, Forest Conservancy Branch
. S. Pickering, colonial timber expert, and N. W. J. Foster, licensed surveyor, confirm the abundance of timber that can be
S o “ P °T i r“1 1 “TJ ,nto betw «“ J ohn William Smith, vendor, of the one part, and John Stiiom
Solicitor, as Trustee on behalf of the proposed Company, on the other part. F mson *
The agreements or indentures and the foregoing reports may be inspected at the office of the Company’s solicitors.


YOUR Wedding Presents can be Supplied by A- SAUNDERS,
The
Reliable
Jeweller & Silversmith.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT,— FIoraI China, real
ESbrer-plated Mounts, 20s.
Similar designs, 15s, 255, 30s. Very
pretty and aooeptable present.
sm
A. SAUNDZH?.
LADIES’ FRIEND.—Pare Solid Silver
Mounts, 18s 6d.
Very useful and acceptable prr-ent*.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SKHVEItS, with Silver-
plated Mounts and Handles, 30s.
Similar, 20s and 255.
Pretty Floral China, 255, 30s, £2 and £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SETS.—Pure Solid Si'ver, Chased
Mounts, 15s ; larger sizes, 20s, 2is, and 30s.
n
m
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, nicely Chased with pretty Red
Glass 12s 6d ; with Fluted Edges, If s fd ;
Double Jam, 255.
&
m
¥M\
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, 16s 6d ; Chased as
above, 20s, 255, and 30s. Post free.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER.— Pure Silver Electro-plated on
fithite Metal, nicely chased, 8s 6d. Round, lbs.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS.—Silver-plated Stand, Colored Glass,
with Spoons, 0s od, 8s 6d, 10s pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
! "I'TEH. —Beautifully Ohased and Orna-
•uted pure Silver, Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, 15s 6d. Large size, 20s.
Four o’clock TEA SET with Covers, pure Silver Electro plated on White
Metal, first-class English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Styles, £2, £2 15s, £3, £3los, £4.
Ladies kindly call and see our Beautifully-stocked Showrooms.
A. SAUNDERB.
EGG CRUETS, pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, beautifully
Chased, 30s, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
Cheaper Style, 20s and 255.
Handsome and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
4-bottle Lunch or Dinner CRUET, pure
Silver Electro -plated on hard White
Metal, 21s. Similar Styles, 265, 80s, 365.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAKE DISHES.—The very best finished pure
Silver Electro-plate, in various patterns.
20s, 22s 6d, 255, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 o’clock TEA SPOONS and TONGS in Silk-Lined Case,
Embossed, 12s 6d. Extra Quality, 16s, 20s, 255.
The Silver-plate we guarantee to give every satisfaction.
In Pure Solid Silver, 6 Spoons only 265, with Tongs
30s, 365, £2, £2 108.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOLDING BISCUITS—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Can be used for Cake or Sandwiches.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BlSCUlT.—Silver-
plated Rims and Lids, with
Enamelled Lining, 15s 6d ;
with Ornamented Fluted
Rims, 20s; Plain, with Shield
only, 12s 6d.
ħ
Old Plate
Made
Equal
To New.
‘•Just What Want!” SPOONS AND FORKS. A. BAUNDERS oan fill that want with a First-Class, Reliable Art Ms.
EXTRA STRONG. Guaranteed to give you every satisfaction.
A 1 QUALITY is the very Highest Standard. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 17s M half-
dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 7s 6d half-dozen.
B QUALITY is a Second Quality. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 12s fld half-dozen ;
DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 10s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 5s half-dozen. ______
SOLID WHITE NICKEL SILVER, Wear White throughout. A Splendid Knockabout Spoon to save the Better Article. DINNER
Spoons or Forks, 4s half-dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 3s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, Is 6d half-dozen.
Packed and Sent post free to all parts of the World. Kindly sand your Orders to A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Size BUTTER. —All Metal, Pure
Silver-plated, beautifully chased, 20g.
Extra ornamented, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Makes Two Dishes, Pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, 355. A Useful and Acceptable
Present. SHALL WE SEND YOU ONE ?
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUET (Breakfast).—Pur*
Silver Electro-plated on Whit*
Metal, 10s 6d ; with 4 Bottle*,
15s 6d and 17s 6d.
Makes a very nice present.
KF" Call and See our
Displayed Showrooms!
WHISKY FLASK.
Silver-plated Bot-
tom and Patent
Top, 10s 6d, 12s
oa, 16s, 20s, 265.
A Warming Friend.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure
Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Simi-
lar Patterns, 2s 6d and 3s.
Wish Bone Design, 4s 6d,
5s 6d, and 6s 6d. Solid
Silver, similar to Pattern,
7s 6d, 10s, and 12s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIVES.—Two Silver-plated, with Pearl
Handles, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d. Other styles, 7s 6d,
IQs od, and 12s 6d, in cases. JAM SPOONS. —Same
price ; without case, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d and
6s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK. —Pure Silver Electro-plated
on Hard White Metal, 12s 6d. Other styles,
similar, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA POTS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated, on White
Metal, as pattern, 25s and 30s.
Different Pattern, 355, £2, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUETS.—First-class Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, as pattern, with Shield,
£2 10s ; extra quality, £3, £3 10s, and £4.
Other patterns without Shields, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Floral China, Pretty Design, with pure
Silver Electro-plated Stand, 15s 6d ; double, 255.
Latest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND,
can be used as a Teapot.—Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2, £2
10s. Other Styles, £3 and £3 10s.
Handsome and Useful Article.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller & Sllversmltli.
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
815 George Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station,
Sydney
Batlma.tea Given.
OLD
■TiA-TD MA.DD EQXJA.Ii TO NEW.
lend. Your Addre


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
A ust ralasian Representatives,
S2a Pitt Street, Sydney.
ĥ
Before booking your Steamship
passayo, write for Travellers.
Gazette, and Sailing List with map’
4 Hunter-st. Sydney;
THOS. COOK & SON,
269 Collins-st., Melbourne.
mssm
GrO TO TTTiT.T.-
- IGOIiANI) for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Flizateth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk STRIPS
JVlattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33i- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land.
D?MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion.
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society .
S. Harvey, Ltd.
London Bdge S.E
Gk
Important Announcement to our City and Country.
Constituents.
WALTCR BRAPLCy # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made .Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
IS 1 ” Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sals.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
HIGH-GRADE
FARM—^
IHVH PLE 3VE HJ IN" T S
Massey-Harris Co., Ltd.
35 BBOADWAY, ?
West, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
One who ought to know prophesies that
when Rarotonga is made part of Maoriland it will
become the champion smuggling head-quarters of
the Pacific.
The stonewall of Q. Laborites will not be
altogether in vain. Their bold front will proba-
bly cause some of the other syndicate railways to
be dropped. There are five to be considered.
In the Vic. general election proceedings,
baby-Minister Willie Watt gave himself away
beautifully by declaring his hostility to the tote,
but his cordial approval of the A.N.A. art-union !
“ When a legislator looks upon his seat,
not as a trust, but as a property, it is time to get
rid of him ” says Melb. Aim us, reciting the evils
of payment of members. - But tie Argus does
not really mean that Vic. Upper House should be
got rid of.
The N.S.W’. Leg. Council’s rejection of
the Mines Eight Hours Bill lias touched coal,
silver and gold miners alike on a tender spot, and
has set them clamoring for a popular Convention
to frame a State Constitution as offering the
Bpeediest means of reforming the Council.
A majority of members of S.A. Assembly
have now about made up their minds that indi-
vidual risks attaching to a reduction in the per-
sonnel of the Chamber are too great to be airily
taken. So they endeavor in a discreet way to
avoid coming to any decision on the subject.
The irregularities in the administration of
Lord Howe Island grow graver. Mr. Frank
Farnell, as visiting-magistrate, has issued a set of
regulations for what must be called unfortunate
political stepchildren. He has also provided that
a lady is to be appointed to teach the local school
“and to impart religion on Sunday.” Is this
N.S.W. law? Can it be condoned by N.S.W.
law ? What does N.S.W. Parliament intend to
do?
IN PUSH SOCIETY.—REFLECTED GLORY.
C ITIZENESS: “My first bloke was lung f’r
corpsin’ a trap.”
CITIZEN : “ Yah, yer skitin’ !”
The Maoriland Jingo Government is run-
ning riot with a vengeance. The latest awfulness
is the spending of £12,000 on 140,000 medals to be
distributed among the school-children of the pro-
vince “in commemoration of the successful issue
of the war. One would almost think Britain- had
never won a battle before she triumphed over the
little nation whose women she is now punishing
(vide cable) for being found under arms.
Some Federal certainties, so far as S.A. is
concerned, are that President Baker, ex-Premiers
Playford and Downer, with Symon, Q.C., will be
among the six members for the Senate, and that
three of the seven seats in the House of Repre-
sentatives will be filled by Kingston, Holder, and
Glynn.
No Victorian may sib in the two Legisla-
tures, yet ex-Attorney-General I. A. Isaacs in-
sists, in opposition to the will of his constituents
(who wish to support him as a candidate for the
House of Representatives), in contesting his old
seat for Bogong in the State Assembly. A bird
in the hand is worth two in the bush, says Isaacs.
From the pen of a duly-qualified solicitor
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania :
ELECTORAL ACT. (Schedule 4.)
Summons.
To . You are required to appear at the Court
of Revision, to be held at —on the day of ,
1900, at the hour of 4 o’clock in the forenoon, to show
cause why your name should not be struck off the Roll
for the District of on the ground that you are deal}.
, Clerk of the Court.
Premier Seddon’s extraordinary assertion
that the Cook Islands (1700 miles off) “ are geo-
graphically an integral part of M.L.,” recalls the
wonderful dictum of the British press wire-pullers
who wanted, some years ago, to “ confer the bless-
ing of civilisation ” upon Morocco, and, in sup-
port of that intended “grab,” argued that
Morocco was “the natural granary of. Great
Britain.”
Q. Speaker Morgan ruled that the various
syndicate concessions now being engineered
through the Assembly were public Bills, yet in
the committee stage one of the Ministers, on re-
ceipt of any amendment, used openly to consult
the syndicators sitting in the lobby. And the
latter scornfully declined anything tending to
preserve the rights of the taxpayers of poor
Boodleland.
The Callide private railway Bill, just run
through Queensland Parliament, received a Par-
liamentary lick which makes it the only measure
of its kind in the world. Cowley moved that the
co. allow all members of the Australasian Parlia-
ments to travel on the line free, and the motion
was carried on the voices. In England, in France,
in the U.S., wherever there are private railway
lines M’s.P. may or may not travel free. The co.
extends the courtesy, or doesn’t, just as it pleases.
But Queensland Parliamentarians when asked to
sanction a private line stand straight up and ask,
“ Where do we politicians come in?” A Licens-
ing Bench might just as properly put in as a con-
dition of a hotel license that the members of the
Bench were to have free drinks.
Seddon has taken in hand and passed a
Bill dealing with M.L, Press Association mono-
poly. The exorbitant fee of £5OO
admittance to the big show, and the
subsequent charges, quite prohibit
Labor organs from getting a start,
and as no capitalist cares to sup-
port the present Govt., Seddon has
Been without press-help in all his
Labor arid Democratic legislation.
At first, and up to lately, any pro-
posed legislation affecting Capital
was the signal for a bitter and. per-
sonal attack upon the Ministry at the
hands of the Tory press, but after last
general election the Fatman papers,
realising that the public would have
none of their nominees, accorded
Richard a patronising and half-
hearted support. Seddon has now
taken steps to smash the newspaper
“ring,” and the long-suffering
Democratic public will now have a
chance of seeing the other side of the
question in print.
S.M. Herald, in its leading
article of 18th Oct., laid it down that
the very slow increase in the popula-
tion of France is one of the dread-
ful consequences of Protection.
Wherefore it would naturally follow
that the tremendous decrease in the
population of Ireland is one of the
awful consequences of Freetrade.
The Irish population has diminished
almost one-half since Protection was
abolished. Another curious circum-
stance : From 1810 to 1840 (30 years,
during which Britain was intensely
Protectionist), Britain’s population
increased at the rate of 434 per 1000;
i.e., where there were 1000 people in
1810 there were 1434 in 1840. Then,
in 30 years of Freetrade, from 1860
to 1890, it increased only by 305 per
1000. When Britain was Protection-
ist in 1820 it gained 171 new in-
habitants where France gained 47
—surplus in favor of Protectionist
Britain, 124. In 1890, when Britain
was Freetrade, it gained 109 new
inhabitants where France gained 37
—surplus in favor of Freetrade
Britain only 72. Apparently in this
matter, as in many others, Freetrade has struck
Britain in the eye with a dirty left, and it isn’t
quite the country it was.
Foster, Mines Minister in the late Vic.
Govt., told his constituents, t’other night, that he
“ was not a candidate for the Federal Parlia-
ment, but while Gippsland East stood by him he
would stand by Gippsland East.” What pitiful
provincial claptrap ! And, by the way, if Gipps-
land East ceases to stand by its Foster, the other
fellow will stand by it. Every country district
can depend upon the bystanding of the bloke wot
it put into Parliament. No occasion for E. Gipps-
land to go in dread of losing its precious Foster.
THE RULING PASSION.—AN ILLUS-
TRATED CHESTNUT.
IKEY (who is learning his tables): “Vat’s twice
two, fader?”
AARONS: “Fife.”
IKEY : “ You’re wrong, fader, it’s four.”
AARONS: “Ah, my boy, I said fife because I
thought you'd beat vie down.”
S.A. Register now speaks of the obstruc-
tive Council majority and of Solomon’s gang in
the Assembly as “the Liberal party,” while it
has christened Kingston and all who vote on his
side in politics as “Socialists.” Nor does the
editor appear to see the humor of the situation,
which is the outcome of the Tory Register's desire
to retain its boast of being “ the organ of Liberal
thought in South Australia.”
Cabled that Rhodes is trying to induce
Australians to settle in S’Africa. Extract:—
The Capetown correspondent of the Daily Mail is
authorised by Mr. Rhodes to state the following : —“ I
am opposed to the introduction of Chinese labour. I
deem that every other means should first he exhausted.
We are now trying to get labour from Abyssinia.”
Abyssinian labor is black, and if other means are
exhausted, then follows Chow! For this have
Australians been shedding their blood in
S’Africa !
Guffaw Peacock was returned for his dis-
trict unopposed, and, in gratitude, distributed
among local charities the money he was going to
devote to electioneering expenses. The Bulletin
scents bribery. It is worse to bribe a whole con-
stituency with a charity gift than to fill one
elector full of sheoak. Peacock’s act may be
meant merely as a thanksgiving, but all the same
it’s a big, fat bribe to do this particular smart
Aleck the same kindness next trip.
Under the old Westralian electoral law a
newcomer had to live in the State 12 months
before he could get a vote, but that violent
reformer, Bigjohn Forrest, did away with all that.
His present law provides that you may get a vote
after six months residence, but can’t use it till
six months after you have nominally got it.
People are so broken up with gratitude at this
generous concession that some of them are going
to present Bigjohn with the first dead dog they
find in the street.
S.A. Premier Holder has gob hold of an
excellent idea. If “vested interests” are the
bugbear in connection with the reform of the
liquor traffic, why not, he asks, refuse to establish
“ vested interests ” in new towns—especially min-
ing towns ! So he proposes to establish a pub. or
two on the Gothenburg plan at the new northern
goldfields. Already the province has, at Ren-
mark, a successful Gothenburg hotel, owned by
the community and managed by a committee in
the community’s interest.
Dear Bulletin.— N.S. W. civil-servants
are once again trying to get a refund of the
cash they sank in the Superannuation Fund.
They are, of course, the younger ones who have
wisely withdrawn from the affair. Those of
55 years and upwards will naturally stick to
it like glue. By the way, why don’t some
speculating “ shent-per-shenters ” buy up all the
chances of those who would (at a ruinous dis-
count) sell their claims ? Suggestion gratis. Was
told by a C.S. the other day that he would jump
at the chance of half cash. Can anybody say
whether this unrighteously annexed cash will ever
be refunded ? —J.G.
Dear Bulletin. —As an old contributor
to your family journal, and an enthusiastic snorter
at the Melb. Land Boom crowd, I crave your
sympathy. One night last week—time 10.45 p.m.
—I found three men on the verandah outside the
front door at my place. The spokesman of the
party apologised for disturbing the household at
that ungodly hour, but said his business was im-
portant. And then the brazen nuisance explained
that he was canvassing on behalf of “the Hon.
James Munro ! ” The blow was too staggering. I
didn’t invite those shameless myrmidons of Jimmy
into the house, and go for them with fire-irons. I
merely cursed them on the verandah, and banged
the door. Now I see the full magnitude of the
lost opportunity and curse my unreadiness. I’ve
missed the patriotic chance of dying on the
scaffold for the murder of at least one of those
three canvassers who were apparently unarmed
and unsuspicious.—F.
It seems to be forgotten by
many parties that under Queens-
land’s now Criminal Code the
conductor of any newspaper iii
that territory defaming foreign
princes is liable to two years’ im-
prisonment !
B. B. O’Conor, M.L.A., is
quite right in his contention that
in the interests of the pure ad-
ministration of justice N.S.W.
police magistrates should have
their salaries paid under statute,
as in the case of the Supreme
Court Judges, who are indepen-
dent of the caprice of M’s.P.
and of the. Ministry of the day.
The N.S.W. public has often seen
a police - magistrate sent from
Sydney by a Govt, to hear semi-
political cases in a distant part
of the province, and has frequently
felt in its heart that that P.M. would
not have been selected to deal with
those, particular matters unless his views,
concerning them had been known to the
Minister. The fact constitutes a blistering
scandal, but one impossible to resent. The P.M.
often has in his hands quite as much power as (and
in some cases even more than) a Judge, and he
should be made as independent as a Judge.
Rev. Handel Jones, the new president of'
Vic. Congregational Union, makes no bones about
his opposition to Bible-reading in State schools.
The Message, he says, distinctly infers that it
shall be interpreted only by duly-qualified par-
sons, and the ordinary State-school teacher,
not being consecrated to the work, has no right to
take it on. It was just the same, concluded the.
new president, as if Paul had gone to Caesar and
said, “I)o my Master’s work—l am too lazy to do.
it myself.” Whatever the Rev. Jones’s logic
amounts to he has done a signal service to the
community, for many Congregationalists are
bound to be influenced by their leader.
Letters addressed to quack doctors at
G.P.O. private boxes, Sydney, are read by the-
Postal Department before being given to the-
addressees. “ I say this,” says Postmaster-General.
Crick, “so that people in the country will know
their letters are read in the office.” But the-
country people ought to have been previously
notified to that effect. At least the Govt.
Gazette should have contained such a notice.
Mr. Crick makes a mistake which, in a better
organised country, would cause him the loss of his
office. At the same time, it will be in the public-
interest if all letters addressed to quack doctors-
are opened in the post and read oy the police.
Perth Morning Herald (brother Alick’s
paper) goes with a loud yell for Revenue-Tariffism.
—which it calls Free trade. It says the Federal
Government “ must levy duties only on such goods-
as Australia cannot produce.” On that basis the
whisky, beer, wine, brandy, tobacco, cigars, sugar,
cloth, silk, and almost all other profitable duties
must come off, and in the practical absence of a
Customs revenue an income-tax of from 2s. 6d. in
the £ upwards is visible on the near horizon. If the
all-wool Freetrader would only try his own doc-
trine for, say, five years—no Australian State has
practised Freetrade, or even pure Revenue-Tariff-
ism, within the memory of any but the oldest and
most decayed inhabitant —and find out what it is
like, it would be an interesting experiment.
The workmen’s homes inaugurated by the
M‘Lean Govt, will be rare prizes for the men
lucky enough to pull them off. Blocks of an acre-
and-a-half, within a few yards of the Brunswick
2d. tram and not three miles from Melb. G.P.0.,
are to be handed over for payments extending
over 31 years. The Govt, also intends to build
houses for the tenants, and the offer practically*
amounts to a chance to obtain a six-roomed brick
house, standing in an acre-and-a-half of good,
high ground, for 7s. 6d. a week, with the cer-
tainty of its becoming the tenant’s property at the
end of 31 years. To prevent booming, it is pro-
vided that no tenant may sell out under seven
years without permission. That “without per-
mission ” is a big mistake, and will lead to much
jobbery and political interference of M.’sP.
The Australian swaddy is
a very great man indeed in
London just now. Here is
depicted a Cornstalk having
his boots polished in a bye-
street.


Hornsby Junction,
October 24th, 1900.
Robert Kerr, Esq.,
Manager,
v City Mutual Fire Insurance Company, Ltd.
Dear Sir.—in acknowledging receipt of CHEQUE FOR
£127 14s. in payment of MY LOSS BY FIRE on the 17th
inst., I have to thank your Company for THE PROMPT
AND EQUITABLE MANNER in which my claim has been
settled.—Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) CHARLES SPENCER.*
Mr. Perott of the Commonwealth Lumber
and Shipping Co. Ltd., draws the attention of the
public to the prospectus of his co. and says that
the N.S.W. people have only to digest this
prospectus in order to comprehend what riches
they have in timber. “Alex. Kethel at first
pooh-poohed the idea of the forest being so rich —
said it was a fairy tale; but after going through
the forest personally he returned with the air of a
man who has looked for wood and found gold.
Walker, the well-known manager of the Kauri
Timber Co., is just as enthusiastic as Kethel; and
nobody can upset the figures we publish in our
prospectus. Every detail has been worked out
and sifted bit by bit by our Board of Directors
for the past six months. What we say in that
prospectus is true.”*
Skilled masseur (Swedish-trained) desires
work as attendant to invalid in country, or travel-
ling. Moderate remuneration. - Young man;
testimonials and references on application to
“Masseur,” Bulletin Office. — Advt.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
VITADATIO
The Greatest Blood Purifier of the Century.
VITADATIO
has cured another sufferer who had been a martyr to
Constipation and Liver Complaint for Twenty years'
Mr. Bath’s experience may be repeated in 3'our case
Mr. W. H. Bath, who has been a member and office-
bearer of Westley Church, during- the last 20 years, and
whose address is 102 Lygon-street, Carlton, Melbourne,
writes as follows: —I suffered during the last 20 years
from the effects of liver complaint and constipation. I
tried almost everything that was advertised to cure my
complaint, and at times consulted doctors. The medi-
cines all failed to cure me, and the doctor’s treatment
did me very little good. I began to despair ; but my wife
hearing from a relative the wonderful curative
properties of “ Vitadatio,” how it cured many people in
New Zealand, urged me to try it. I had been laid up for
some time from the effects of a bad turn eight months-
ago. My wife called upon the agent, Mr. Palmer, and he
persuaded her to take a bottle. It acted like a charm ; I
was able to return to my work before I had finished it. I
continued using it, taking five more bottles, and I am
thankful to say I have quite regained my long-lost health.
I will be pleased to answer any inquiries. Thanking you
for your medicine, and wishing you success.—l remain
yours faithfully, W. H. BATH.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s 6d; Small Size, 3s (id.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s 6d.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
<ar ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
RECORD ORDER for TYPEWRITERS
121
.. YOSTS
This order has just been given by
Her Majesty’s Government for
Yost Typewriters, after the famous
machine had been thoroughly
tested alongside other makes.
m
E==:Hi
■ ■
This is the Clearest Proof of the Sterling Value of the Yost Typewriter.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
114 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane: Webster & Co. ; Adelaide: Reeves & Co.; Launceston: Hedley Button.
4ST Agents also for the iV EIV CEJtI Uli 1 and DENSMORE*
OYER
6,000
SHOPKEEPERS
AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES
200,000
ALL OVER THE WORLD
USE
MTIDDIb CISH REGISTERS
HEAD
AUSTRALASIAN
OFFICE :
335 PITT STREET,
—SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM,
GENERAL MANAGER.
ħ
ded W
tooVs de^c
»te “;;;>*«
lot
t
SK
if
a,cc<
„ <•* *** * esß
» tVv® t o3^*
, e iot v\i.e l
o^% e * otv
us" 1 fa®* Rett"**' 0
**»
*o^**
;u^
pvx^
a* c
o*
\r^'
ta* v
o nS'
cret^
\tv©
oBSed
ftte Ae XY
- ,a©
r^ta- 1
fir**
i«*
A» B®* 8 ®*
h
I*°*
wcr
9 \t\
c e*
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.
At Poverty Point.
Three Hambourgs are rumored to be coming out to
Australia next year. Mark Hambourg, the pianist, who
didn’t go mad seemingly) Jakoff the violinist, and a third
and younger brother, a ’cellist of wondrous genius. But
the third Hambourg sounds rather like a paragraphist’s
invention.
Melbourne is to have only two pantomimes this Xmas,
not three, as suggested in last week’s Bulletin. There
will be a Nellie Stewart panto at the Princess’s, and a
Rickards panto. By the way, a rather absurd report has
been published concerning Irene Franklin and the Xmas
show at the Bijou. Said that the auburn Yankee damsel
with the remarkable twang would appear as principal
girl to Billie Barlow’s principal boy. Fact is, the girl
part has been given to Noni Rickards, and if Miss Nom
plays it as well as she played Babbie in “ Little Minister ”
she will get through with honors.
One hundred and seventy girls turned up to fill 18
vacancies in Musgrove’s Opera Co. in Melbourne. Still
the stage strikes more than lightning !
The same Sydney paper which reports the shooting and
capture of bushranging Jimmy Governor reports that a
packed house gave Alfred Dampier’s revival of “ Robbery
Under Arms ” a cordial reception at the Criterion Theatre.
Australia likes the highway-robbery business. See how
popular it was to volunteer for the Transvaal!
“ Melb.” : The good old Queue ! This city takes it like
a lamb. You remember the observations of the Manager
in the Prologue to Goethe’s “ Faust.” How he delights
to see the mob pushing and fighting at the pay-boxes, as
at a baker’s shop for bread in time of famine. O’Cal-
laghan—not the man of “ His Last Legs,” but the Melb.
Police „Super., and aspirant for Chomley’s boots—has
abolished these fierce pleasures.
Ed. Bulletin. —For the “ true-inwardness ” of the
tricks with which the “ Georgia Magnet” is now “ para-
lysing ” Sydney, vide Pearson’s Magazine, Jan. ’99,
wherein will be found a complete explanation of how such
physical “ fakes ” are worked. —Nem.
Fitzgeralds’ had bad luck with their tents in Melbourne.
Love, who had gone ahead to prepare the way, planted
the huge tent beautifully on the Exhibition oval,
when a whirling willy-willy came along and whipped the
lot up by the roots, enveloping the Exhibition dome in a
canvas overcoat, and strewing all Carlton with fragments
of the firm’s dry goods. On Wednesday it looked as if the
Fitzses would have to house their show under umbrellas
for the first night’s performance. “ But Love will find a
way.”
One of the improvements Geo. Musgrove will introduce
to Australia(says The Bulletin London correspondent) will
be the sixpence-in-the-slot opera-glass, such a success in
English theatres, &c. A natty nickel case is fixed to
backs of stall-seats and holds an aluminium glass, which a
“sprat” places at your disposal “for to see the plye”
and to understand the understandings of the ballet.
Charles Cartwright’s Cromwell (writes Tiie Bulletin’s
London correspondent)has been remarkably well received.
0.0. gets a little punishment from one or two critics, but
plenty of praise from the majority. And Miss Edith
Cartwright has nice things said of her. Strange coin-
cidence ! —John Morley, a relative of C.C.’s, is publishing
a biographical study of Oliver Cromwell next month.
Musgrove’s managerial policy re Madame Slapoffski
doesn’t look a little bit clever. Madame came out to
Australia, unannounced, with her husband who has the
drilling of the opera chorus. A week or two after her
arrival the names of the Musgroveian principals were
solemnly declared, and hers was not amongst them.
Then came the boss with the co., and the boss told half-
a-dozen different interviewers that neither of his three
prima donnas was older than 24. No suggestion of a pro-
bability of adding Madame Slap, to the list. “II Trova-
tore ” was produced with five of the new people on the
bill. Laudatory notices. “Faust” followed with an-
other four new people in the cast, and the notices were
less laudatory. The average quality of the co., judging
from the “ Faust ” performance, didn’t seem as high as
had been expected. Then came the news that Madame
Slap,, who is certainly somewhat older than 24, would
appear as a prima-donna. The public, or some of them,
would naturally look at this last announcement in the
light of the “Faust” notices, and take it as an admis-
sion of weakness in the company, although they can see
no immediate necessity for another principal soprano.
What Musgrove chiefly wants is a second tenor of Salvi’s
calibre, and a contralto to balance Agnes Jansen.
BjThere is one class that laments the sudden elevation of
the old Alexandra into a fashionable house, alias Her
Majesty’s—it is composed of those poor players and
poverty-pointers who only got a casual look-in at the
metropolis, and for whom the Aleck offered the one pos-
sible opening. The wandering co., accustomed to cow-
houses and barns, has no longer a chance of dissipating
its little savings in a city splurge.
Musgrove’s production of “ Carmen ” is only the third
that Melbourne has seen in 12 years. In Oct., ’BB, Simon-
sen staged Bizet’s opera at the old Opera House, with
Louise ’ Lablache in the name part, Pimazzoni as the
Toreador, and Flora Graupner as Michaela. In April, ’92,
Marie Halton played Carmen at the Princess’s, Flora
Graupner (with diminished voice) as Michaela again,
Charles Ryley for Toreador, and Willie Walshe (now in
England) as the tenor, Don Jose. Florence Young and
Violet Varley took minor parts in that show, also
Leumane, Howard Vernon, and Alan Morris, the latter a
capital baritone singer who had got few opportunities,
because Ryley was the popular candidate.
George Crichton Miln (writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent) is now thoroughly devoted to literature
and journalism, and no longer oscillates the ceiling suites
with his thunderous bass. He has done remarkably well,
his signed articles having appeared in the new and extra-
ordinariiy-successful Express, the Daily Mail’s red-hot
rival. His wife —Miss Louise Jordan, as she is remem-
bered “down under”—is, I grieve to say, a martyr to
nerves, and is unlikely to act again, though with her pen
she also has done very well.
“ The greatest of elephant shows,” writes The Bulle-
tin’s London correspondent, “is now demoralising the
stage supports of the Palace Theatre. A big American
negro, Eph. Thompson, brings on three of the 4 two-
tailed’beasts, and after preliminaries Eph. falls ill on the
stage. Immediately an elephant carries on a bed and
pulls the coverlet back with its trunk, elephants 2 and 3
pick the prostrate one up —one getting hold of his feet,
t’other a breast-belt, and dump him into bed. No. 1 l.f.
then picks up a safety match in its trunk and strikes it
on a large board—prepared surface —lights candle, drops
match on ground and puts its dainty Cinderella on it.
Meanwhile No. 2 l.f. goes to 4 property ’ telephone, rings
up, gets a reply, takes off and holds a pan-like receiver to
its cellar-flap ear, and then opening a mouth like a
butcher’s shop bellows into transmitter and replaces
receiver. No. 3 l.f. then proceeds to 4 property ’ chemist’s
door, rings bell, takes bottle of medicine, doses invalid
with it, and finishes remainder. No. 1 l.f. then puts out
candle and proceeds to rock the bed with no gentle
motion. Patient soon recovers, and is assisted to rise,
&c. Also fine bit of thrill when Eph. lies down and
makes an l.f. walk across his body, which it accomplishes
with extraordinary reluctance and gingerliness. A woman
dances, and two I.f.’s with skirts clumsily raise alternate
forelegs, finally pulling up their skirts with their trunks,
displaying frilled trouserettes.”
According to war correspondents’ accounts,
in the terrible advance to Pekin the Japs, proved
themselves the best marching men, the Russians
were second best, the British a moderate third,
the Indian troops came fourth, and the U.S.
infantry, lame and crippled and broken-down,
was the worst of the lot. In the last hours of the
march the remnant of the American infantry was
only induced to stagger on by the constant appeals
of the officers to keep going for the honour of the
flag, and not let the Japs, and Russians take
Pekin while the star-spangled banner fainted in
the dust 20 miles behind.


A decent Adelaide citizen faced the police-
court, the other day, on a charge of not having
had his child vaccinated. Defendant produced
the boy in court, and showed on his arm an erup-
tion which still remained from a previous applica-
tion of lymph over eight years before, and which
numerous Adelaide doctors had failed to cure.
Despite this the man was fined £2 in all, in-
dignantly refused to pay the fine, and went to
gaol.
Stated in evidence in an assault and battery
case between two highly-placed Vic. public ser-
vants, t’other day, that after defendant had
grasped complainant—a vegetable pathologist and
lecturer—by the shoulders and run him vigorously
out of his class-room into the grounds outside, the
latter arose in a state of mild excitement, aggra-
vated by gravel-rash, and returned to class,
observing, “ Students, after this digression we
will resume the lecture.” “ Digression ”is good.
S’Malkum M‘Eacharn is taking up the
“Greater Melbourne” talk again, and says he
means to go on with it. But why did he incon-
tinently drop it a year ago, when matters were
coming to a head ? Simply because some of the
old fossils on the City Council said they wouldn’t
vote for his re-election as Mayor if he didn’t—and
if he hadn’t been re-elected lie wouldn’t have got
liis title. Is that the sort of man to be trusted
with the leadership of any popular movement ?
“ ±’U Try It."
The Only Certain
iTfliHitnj'hp, Pnrfldi/jw*
IWB-’jKBSn
Posted (under cover)
t,o any part of Austr
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
SOLE AGENTS:
'I he Memlt.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 6SO-682 Ceorge-street, Sydney.
Heame’s Bronchitis Core.
the: FAMOUS K.BMJSDY FOR.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed- at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. Gr. HEAEAE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
33ranclx Depot ;
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
Smelting; do. <=>r A.ustralia
(r,TMTTET»,
HJ-A.PTO <T .a 1r» Tlla,warra>, aear SYX>3XTJE<"Sf.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PROE.XJCBR9
OK
FINE SILVER.
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW AREA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Peace, SYDNEY.
m FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute
THIS is the only Medi-
cal Institute in Aus-
tralia with a bona
fide capital that stands
behind their guarantee and
is evidence of a faithful
performance of all their
contracts.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
_ZV7> one should hesi-
tate t » consult us, as
co ns ultations ei t her
by letter or in person
are given FREE OF
CHARGE.
400-PACE MEDICAL WORK POST
FREE ON APPLICATION.
!
- ?•»/
-
m
.
>> .
SPECIALITIES :
Heart,
Kidney,
Liver Affections.
Rheumatism,
Sciatica,
Epilepsy,
Gout.
Gravel,
Eladder, and
Spinal Affections.
Blood <(; Skin Diseases
Rupture and Biles
Cured without
Operation.
Nerve and Brain
Complications.
Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and Registration by Government Medical Boards of New South Wales
Victoria, South Australia, Creat Britain and America Open to Inspection.
Medicines forwarded to all parts of Australia—CONTENTS FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
Cor. ELIZABETH & BATHURST STS., SYDNEY.
For 'privacy Patients may address “F. <£ W.,” 225 and 227 Elizabeth St., Sydney .


HerrRASSMUSSEN’S alfaline herbal remedies
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
ħ
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALF ALINE
Nerve Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaliiie Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely' free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d..
ALFAXINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind. Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion.
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY_FREE..
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful
with full particulars
n ecessary for self- j
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Pree
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
it
m
HE3R RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DAINiSSH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ - WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
|MPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSHIUSSeiIj
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE.
| Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to H&IIS RjiSSIHUSSCH.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for » oughs, Colds, i.onsumption, Brori (, hitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stouiest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most, perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets-An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo 'derful far Beautifying t ! »e Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for pieventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders—Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable.' Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder - Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Balts— Containing powerful and effeetua
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfalina Electric Suspender Bandage This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office 54 H GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BUTS BA AE : 100 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
MELBOU UNE ; 15.0 Bourke-street (opp. Eastern Markets),
ADELA ID E ; 154 Bundle-street (near York Hotel).
~N.Z~WELLIAGIOA ; 01 Lamhton Quay ♦
FE ItTH : Hay-street (opposite JViedenbach’s).
~KA LGOORLIE: Hannan-street (next Lindell’s).
BOULDER CITY : Piesse-street.
Fit EM A JV TL E : Henry-street.
Pastor Eitchett writes that “T)e Wet is the
only Boer general who has gained a bright repu-
tation.” That is, Joubert, Cronje, Ollivier, and
De la Rev have not done anything to brighten
their reputation. Which is indeed rough on
Buller and Co.
Ex-Sydneyite tells things about Seddon's
country:—
Maoriland Education Boards and School Committees
are smellful institutions. A personal or other canvas of
any member is supposed to put an applicant out of court.
Yet, no candidate ever yet got appointed to a M.L. school
who relied on his (or her) merits alone ! Political patron-
ace, in fact, is rampant in the land of King Richard.
When the Govt. Insurance office was started, vacancies
were filled on the basis of suitability alone, but now the
insittution is flooded with a set that holds no other claim
to merit than the relationship or friendship of somebody
of importance. Maoriland is, in view of the Plague, being
cleansed of material filth, and now is the opportunity for
some great political scavenger to arise and shed daylight
on the policy that hitherto has sailed under that mud-
bespattered flag—democracy.
“Alia” to The Bulletin:
Several lines of railway have been recently recommended
lor construction by N.S.W. Public WorksComnutteewith
a , lr oviso for tbe betterment principle to be enforced in
properties benefited by their construction. But why
should this proviso only be enforced on these new lines,
most of which are of the pioneer type, through sparsely
settled country, where possible benefit to property-holders
will not be great, owing to distance from markets, &o. If
the betterment principle be good, why not pass an Act
making it applv to all railway lines in the State? Espe-
Sallv on these constructed through large estates, ori-
ginal! v Or >wn grants, whose owners contribute more to
? tbnr, otherwise bv blocking closer setcle-
fos n sof revSftue than otherwise by blocking closer settle-
ment This might easily be effected by increasing the
land-tax on a defined area within a workable distance
each side of the railway lines, graduating it according to
Quality of land and area held, in an increasing ratio.
Some past Government shave shown a desire to retain the
unearned increment to the Crown by reserving land from
sale on the surveyed routes of several proposed lines.
Why the betterment principle has not previously been
enforced maybe accounted for by the fact that on more
than one line worked at a loss large areas were held for
speculative purposes by Ms. P.-some of whom bit their
fingers.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when yon
pre-s voter Anger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the shin you have poison that defies ail
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you Perhaps y.mr knees arc swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
waik. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I C AN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I Wild,. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILES,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
llonsemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles,Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
&c Price, in Cireat liri ain, l/ljd. per bx. Prepared by
At BERT, 73, Karfitfgdon-street, London, England.
Agents ■ ELLiOTT 8R05,,-Sydney Purchasers should
look toi the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green lat el on each box. (Regd. copyright).
“ Max O’Rell” says he heard the other day
a very good piece of advice which he endorses
thoroughly. A man should marry a. woman half
his age, plus seven.” Well, judging from the
birth-statistics, it certainly seems well adapted for
the guidance of octogenarians. And every old
gentleman of 100 should certainly wed a woman of
at least 57.
h
fringes,
{Natural Curly, from 3/0 eaotk
PLAITS and TAILS,
ttHn. long, bits. all real hato.
CUTTINGS A COMBUJ33
•Opted up, 1/ti per o*.
We are the ciieapeStlo
trails for all Hair Work.
Semi Color of Hair-
W. N..wigztll.
JlO W 0,1,1 AM STHKET.
earner of Palmer-alreet,
SYDNEY.
Cahlo Tram will stop at Poor.
Semi stamps for full Prico MeV
rraw* aUenfcion'Kiven to Country Ors*7%
ĥ
Medical,
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been awarded 100 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases- especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. G. CALVERT & CO., Manchester,
Dr. Boxwell’s pills.
Xj ON-I'OISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
1N xiVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling- Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
th se Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert —Dr.
Box well having been for years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
all leading Wholesale Druggists in Australia or Pill
Manufacturing Co., 539 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
* COMMON SENSE EAR DRU3I.
THE
HEAfi
(COMPLETELY restore ihe
'C Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
Medical.
DA. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
rNLOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
ħ
We grant every purchaser
of our
KLKCTItIC
JiKLTS and
A VVLI A XCKS
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our“EL»EC-
TltlC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
'each Electric Belt that it
will permanently due you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Brice List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
G-erman Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
h
/ Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
/ Proprietor .'—STEPHEN GREEN,
>/210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
/ Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
/ Eyelids, or other Eye disorders,
' should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering gUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 2JI COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
fPHESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent pos ed, ss. 6d. per
box. Write to A. Chemical-Co., Elizabeth-street North,
Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendfgo-street, Prahran,
Melb. says : “ Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
diate relief, although I had during two months previous
tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
Over
IOQ
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS. M.D.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 17*6, Died 1834.
INVENTOR OP Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs. Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
usu Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
I-or all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. i.sd. and 2s. 9d. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers: BEACH & BARNICOTT, LtcL
BRIDPOBT, England.
SHEB
DEAF
m 3
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
■ Completely overcome Deafness
■and 11ea d Kotsi s, no matter of
■ how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Addkess -L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne


THEY HAVE WINNING WAYS.
Masssy-Narris Bicycks
Won Five Miles AUSTRALASIAN AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
and all events bar one at Brisbane.
The Quality and Speed of a MASSEY keeps its Rider ABSOLUTELY IN FRONT.
N.S.W. Branch: 385 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Ever Had Indigestion?
THIS MAN HAD IT AND RHEUMATISM—DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS BANISH HIS
AILMENTS.
Such is the valuable testimony of Mr. John
Chase, No. 3 King-street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
“It is with pleasure that I recommend Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Some twelve months
ago I suffered with rheumatism and indigestion.
I tried several remedies, but of no avail. I last
gave your pills a trial, and am glad to state, after
taking about two bottles, rheumatism and indi-
gestion have both gone. I am by occupation a
sea-faring man, and constantly getting wet, but
ever since using the Pills I have not had
rheumatism. I keep the Pills by me, occasionally
taking a couple, which keep me properly
regulated. You may use this in any way you
think proper.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
positively cure biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, dyspepsia, headaches, liver and kidney com-
plaints, piles, pimples, and blotches. Sold by
chemists and storekeepers, price Is. per bottle
or six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58
Pitt-street, Sydney. Packed in amber bottles,
and the full name blown thereon.*
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO..
Ideal Tyre Coy.,;
RICHMOND, VICTORIA
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z
Hornsby J unction,
October 24th, 1900.
Robert Kerr, Esq.,
Manager,
City Mutual Eire Insurance Company, Ltd.
Dear Sir. —
In acknowledging receipt of CHEQUE FOR
£127 14s. in payment of MY LOSS BY FIRE on
the 17th inst., I have to thank your Company for
THE PROMPT AND EQUITABLE MANNER
in which my claim has been settled.
Yours faithfully,
CHARLES SPENCER.
(Sgd.)
ĥ
ħ
MOVEMENT IN CYCLING
A distinct revival in Cycling is noticeable throughout Australasia. We claim that this is
largely due to the great merit of the 1900 MODEL RED BIRD which has re-established
public confidence m Bicycles. RED BIRDS were always good, but now no one denies that
they are the most reliable wheels on the market.
Branches:
Victoria-street, Wellington, N.Z.
Swanston-street, Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-street, Brisbane, Q.
Bundle-street, Adelaide, S.A.
The Goold Bicycle Co.,
Headqoabtebs— 64 King Street, SYDNEY,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Melbourne Cup this year promises to be a more
than usually great event for the gentlemen who lay the
odds. At time of writing one might get different “ good
things ” from ten different authorities, meaning sound
judges of racing whose opinion is worth considering.
And this apart from numerous fancies and suggestions of
outsiders “ likely to run a good race,” and so forth. The
bookmakers, who see everything and hear everything in
the Turfy world, and are practised sifters of evidence—
even the bookies have about ten different tips to give this
year, for although the Children of Israel never believe
very hard in any particular horse, they have their likes
and dislikes the same as humbler mortals.
* * *
If there were no influenza at Flemington the
present scribe might have attempted a long' and serious
discourse on the Cup chances, notwithstanding the open
appearance of the race. The influ., which has already
gripped Seahorse and Finland, will probably get hold
of some more cattle before the big race comes off.
Then why go into details concerning favorites which,
since the outbreak at Hickenbotham’s stable, are in con-
siderable danger of being knocked out before next Tues-
day ? Nothing in journalism is sadder than a careful
analysis of the “ form ” of a handicap gee-gee that has
just been scratched. And all sorts of scratchings may
happen before next Tuesday.
• * • •
Three times within the last five years the Cup
has gone to a three-year-old. Auraria, in 1895, ran only
third for the Derby, whereas Newhaven and Merriwee
won their blue-ribbons before annexing the richer stake.
It is not safe to talk against this season’s three-year-olds
until they have shown how they can gallop in the Derby.
An easy win for Malster on Saturday would make him
favorite for the Cup, perhaps, but he would have to show
a marked superiority to Kinglike and Barbarossa, who are
much better handicapped for the two-mile race. There
is little encouragement to tip the Derby-winner for the
Cup this year. Malster may be a very fine colt at his best,
but he is certainly delicate, and probably bad-tempered.
Anyhow, he comes from the same dam as Carbinier (the
Millars’), which is a point against him. Kinglike is not
the ideal Derby horse in appearance. Barbarossa is a
grand one to look at, and a most attractive galloper,
except for his habit of “ hanging.” At Randwick he
“ hung out,” but at Flemington, where they race t’other
way round, the deep-chested son of Medallion “ hangs
in,” like Dewey last year. The fault may not spoil his
chances, or it may get him into trouble. Anyhow, pre-
sent scribe likes Malster, Barbarossa, and Kinglike for the
Derby in that order, and whilst giving them all a chance
for the Cup, is inclined to prefer Barbarossa to the others
over the two miles, without expecting him to win the
Cup outright.
Take the following as candidates with undeni-
able chances. La Carabine, Tarquin, Merriwee, George
Frederick, War God, Lancaster, Fleet Admiral, Severity',
Maltster, Barbarossa, Kinglike, Clean Sweep and Lan-
caster. Perhaps the best of them will be beaten by one
or other of the next lot: Mora, Wait-a-Bit, Gauleon, Con-
trast, Horace, or Baromeo—not to mention twenty
others. Present scribe’s fancy leans to the thirteen first
named, and as they can’t all finish in front of one another
he takes four to beat the field—
1— War God
2 George Frederick
3 La Carabine
4 Barbarossa
°v!- d
last two races in ™5 u form of hlB hfe In hiB
never went before. P He is a lonTof CarlY 6 traC H a \, he
the Carbines improve with aseThpl b 6 ’ and « h^ n
of the best. AmoUgSt a multitude of tips War God is one
broo^ e mareB^in*Ene-]and* laPPe ° ed^h o'^ofthfbTst
and j WaS Princess of Wales,
the Wales flmilv iik ar < tW i?- ght ’ named her foals after
ti • ,;. e 8 tamuy — Albert Victor, Georsre Frederick
Louise Victoria, and so forth. George Frederick a verv
na g me B sa°k7i C somuc 0 much On th he E^lisb Derb >'' His
iiamesaae is much the same stamp of horse True Ke
Ornt" fK g6 K blS p e tle , from his dam, but from George Fred
Ser 7 ’ hVed , SP ° rt ’ who bought him
swlar bv l1 * aJ for coincidence-backers to
thoughtson Dook rv n w e lf the y concentrate their
that George FWleri I rk -, t , ou & ht fco be able to dream
inacueorge Frederick will win the Cup Also Georve
horse e is C almost 7fnd°t Un rl UCky ° n the *«rf that his belt
late for th? to £°J ome good now that it is too
late for to benefit his late owner.
iaT^“ ong „ the fashionable sires, Bill of Port-
ed '"and two Pr ? S T ted u y Merriwee > Maltster, Head-
Frederiek h r k”™ bopes ’ Carbin e has George
and ftiflei’te La T oar a blne ) War God, Holster, Carbinier,
Alix going Trenton wdl Probably have Revenue and
Punter : At time of writing it looks as if
Lancaster will, at fall of Melb. • Cup flag, keep the
position of first favorite, occupied by him ever since the
h Ut ' N ? th , ln “ like b' to start has done
t£n To ? k bee u- put through a more solid prepara-
n". As he has a big pull in the burdens to be carried,
Trenmlfw * ook r s ., ver -' - rosy. It would seem that the
„ a t. e r Lily 4-year-old, Revenue, will have the
confidence of St. Albans in preference to Kinglike, who
pne off as per his Caulfield Cup showing.
Ihe prospects of at least a dozen seem on a par. If a line
may be taken from the Caulfield running, La Carabine
shows out best, as her fourth—all things considered—was
twuf P erf ormance. That determined finisher, George
, redenck, should be there or thereabouts, while the Bal-
larat nag Kaaba, on his Caulfield run, must be given a
good chance. Those who believe in luck are likely to
come at him, for he’ll be ridden by Cooper, who had' the
mount on Ampler for Epsom and Ingliston for Caulfield
Cup and is strongly supported by the crowd that scooped
over the other two. Writer stands Lancaster as absolute
best. As writer sees it, best outsider in Melb. Cup is
. rrishaw 3 Barbarossa. Heaps of money went on him
just prior to start of Caulfield Cup and, at Randwick
same day, he got close to supplanting Ingliston as second
favorite. Among the first six to finish Barbarossa was
going as strong as anything in the race. The extra half-
mile next Tuesday will favor him and he’ll have 61b. less
to hump. Besides, few nags have been better prepared.
Vi* 3 - trainer Hickenbotham is having a bad
time. Seahorse and Finland laid up for repairs, Fleet
Admiral bleeding at the nose, Ballistite in sorrow over
°, ne ,°‘ r h ; a ba ck tendons. Four invalids in one stable.
Ana Hickenbotham got a severe knock over Cranberry
last year. The big chestnut, a hot Derby favorite, had to
be scratched at the eleventh hour.
* * • *
Scratching of M.L. crack, Seahorse, was a big
set-back to many punters. Late reports are that vet.
Kendall says it will be long ere his influenza is got under,
trouble 8 scrat °bmg * or the Derby was due to the same
• * * *
Mr “ Bill ” Long’s tip for Caulfield (Mora) like
? ls -uS.• ;? r . e ran second. La Carabine appears
to be his tip for Melbourne.
* * * ■ *
C. L. M‘Donald, offered a slice of their luck by
a Broken Hill miners’ syndicate which drew Kinglike in a
, ™. for the Caulfield, replied that he would book
1000 to 200—he didn’t want it for nothing 1 .
e t ?»ghty Malua sired first and second in
Caulfield Cup.
* * • m
Albion Park Syndicate, of Breakfast Creek, near
Brisbane, has paid fractions of a shilling on their tote
divs. since the outcry in the press. Judging by results the
proprietors should have a nice nest-egg from the past
seven years’ racing.
* * * *
Canterbury (M.L.) breaks out into a red rash of
festivity to-day, Nov. Ist; when its Exhibition (covering
3 acres of earth) is to be opened with much pomp. On
3rd, sth, 7th, and 10th the C.J.C. holds its Jubilee
Metrop. Meeting, the advertised stakes amounting to
£lO,OOO in all. This is the largest sum ever offered by a
racing club at any one meeting in M.L., and the best
advt. the tote has scored thus far.
* * * *
A few days ago at Mt. Gambier (S. A.) a pro-
fessional horse-breaker (Skuthorpe, of Moree, N.S.W.)
accomplished a leap that has never been attempted since
Adam Lindsay Gordon did it 40 years ago. Skuthorpe,
riding a hunter called Wallace, had a run of 24ft. on a
macadamised road at a jump over a gutter and a three-
rail fence, 4ft. 3in. high, alighting on a strip of ground
10ft. wide, from which there is a precipitous fall of 250 ft.
to the Blue Lake. The leap, which was witnessed by
hundreds of spectators, amidst great excitement, was
managed with perfect success. The horse was stopped in
his stride as he touched ground, the rider being merely
unseated by the shock. The slightest blunder meant
certain death. What a mad freak !
* * • *
M.L. bruiser, Otto Cribb, hastily made up his
mind last week and left for Yankeeland per Mariposa on
Wednesday, he having only got back from Melb. previous
day. Mick Dunn and Dan O’Connell were waiting for
promised matches—latter with backing—but Cribb
couldn’t be induced to stay. He will find the opposition
in the U.S. a lot stiffer than here, and will be lucky if he
doesn’t hump up against something too hot early. He is,
scientifically, not a top-notcher—he’s merely a good,
strong, spunky rough ’un, and there are plenty of his sort
there. Besides, though the money offered" may look
bigger, it won’t pan out as well as that earned in Austra-
lia. Over yonder there are too many to cut it up—the
necessary manager’s whack being bulkier than the pug’s
as a rule.
• * * V
The matching of old rivals, Tim Hegarty and
Jack M’Gowan, for £lOO aside is the latest pug sensation.
Condition—26 rounds, with as many more as referee
may deem desirable to justify a decision, which means a
knock out; so, bar accidents, there’s sure to be a winner
this time. Australian light-weight supremacy is in-
volved, as M‘Gowan won that by beating Peter Murphy,
whose claim stood out. Cribb would have owned the
title had he stayed here, through M‘G. refusing to meet
him at the lOst. limit.
“Old Timer”: Saw champion bantam Bert
Weekes at work on ebon-hued Peter Edwards (“ Young
Peter Jackson”), in Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney), Saturday
night. The black’s case was one of palpable fright and
quit. He tried to be counted out twice, but referee
McDonald wouldn’Phave it, and warned him that there’d
be no loser’s end if he didn’t stand up. ’Twas no good—
Peter’d, sooner lie down than be thumped, and the thing
was stopped. Edwards was “ buttons ”at old York-street
(Sydney) S.A,G. Club 10 years ago, and learned the game
in a good school, but wasn’t built for it. Writer remem-
bers Peter having ’em on with Griffo for a spar one day.
Griffo accidentally thumped a bit hard once, and knocked
all zest out of the black, who took off the gloves and
blubbered. Why they called him “ Young Peter Jack-
son ”is a poser. The only resemblance is that he’s black.
Jackson hails from Santa Cruz, while Edwards is ft
Mauritian.
• • • •
North Sydney A.A.C.’s initial sports meeting
on Saturday attracted a big crowd, and several competi-
tors from Vic. and Q. Best performance was credited to
Bananaland heel-and-toe man, A. B. Wilcox, who covered
ft mile in the very speedy time of 6.50, and under rules
recently adopted by Australasian A.A.U.
* * * •
Old man hammer-thrower M. Fitzpatrick was
lately gathered to the fold of Amateurism (which is very
sick just now) and made his first bow under the newly
acquired status at North Sydney A. A. C’s. sports
Saturday. From scratch (in a 9ft. circle) he threw the
161 b. hammer 109 ft. 3in. Second man Lyon (with 18ft.
allowance) couldn’t get nearer than 106 ft. Holder of
Amateur premiership—though entered and getting a good
start —didn’t toe the mark.
• * • »
Thirteenth amateur sculling premiership of
Victoria over Lower Yarra (2-j- miles) on Saturday was won
easily by previous holder, 0. "Donald (Albert Park), with
P. C. Ivens (Mercantile) second, and C. E. Macnamara
(Mercantile) third. Time, 19.7. Result was confidently
anticipated. This is Donald’s third successive win.
* * * *
Big Australasian bowling tourney promoted by
M. 0.0. (Melb.) begins on Monday next. Contest for
individual supremacy of the continent has attracted 128
entrants from M.L., Tas., Vic., and N.S.W.; hence right
of winner to the title cannot be questioned. N.S.W.
team to meet Victorians in usual annual match leaves
Sydney on Friday, next week.
« • • •
Fast-bowler Jones gets £llO a year from S. A.
C.A. as a retainer to play cricket for the wheat State, and
the agreement expires this month. It is expected that
Jones will be offered about half that sum in future, and
whether he will accept depends upon what offers come
from other States. Jones is supposed to have the refusal
of a Melb. billet.
• * • *
Dates for the inter-State cricket matches have
so far, barring the first contest between Vie. and S.A.
next week, not been agreed on. Why don’t the different
associations meet early in every season to fix programme ?
* * * *
The ill-managed and garrulous League of Vic.
Wheelmen, which wasn’t fit to manage an ice-cream cart,
practically received its knock-out on Saturday evening,
when all the racing cyclists who had promised to support
it sent unconditional entries to Melb. Bicycle Olub, in-
curring the threatened disqualification of the League,
whatever that may be worth. The sport will be conducted
far better by the M.8.C., and if the League has any sense
it will quietly collapse and cut up its assets among its
survivors. By the way, its assets are only £2OO, and
“ out of this ” £3OO is due to a fund for injured cyclists.
* * * *
Crack Yankee cyclists—Lawson, Chapman,
Vaughan, and Bowles—reached Sydney per Moana in
quest of biz. Lawson and Chapman are front rankers.
Former set up new figures for a half-mile competition
(55 2-5) just ere leaving for Australia. Best ever done
here was Gordon’s 56. Chapman has been among first-
flighters for years. Vaughan, too, comes well endorsed.
Said that U.S. top-notchers Cooper and M'Farland will
arrive later. These are bracketed with Major Taylor as
the speediest men on t’other side.
Top-notch English sprint cyclist, Jack Green,
is aboard incoming P. and O. liner Britannia, and will
land at Melb. He is fresh from Paris Exhibition races,
where he shaped well, but didn’t get away with much
loot. In semi-finals of the Grand Prix Green went under
to Frenchman Bourillon, after a severe struggle, only
won by inches. Green gave Australia a taste of his
quality once before, when he stayed two years.
♦»‘ * *
“Plugger” Bill Martin got a great reception
on Adelaide Oval, t’other Saturday. The crowd cheered
and clapped, and Bill, sleeker and apparently less aggres-
sive than of yore, seemed to be shaking hands with every-
body. In his heat for the big race he was' well to the
front when the bell went, but then he was hustled clean
out of it. Everyone appeared to bump him, and he fell
back to the ruck. A sigh went up from the gallery for
the Bilmartin of other days, who would have strewn the
grass with the bleeding carcases of such a rabble. Then
Bill, twirling a piece of string between his thumbs, was
looking for somebody. It was the judges or referee.
What occurred the crowd could not tell, for Bill was
smiling blandly and shook hands some more.
* * * *
Champion Roberts was fairly done on the last
day of his match with Weiss. The figures speak for
themselves. The question of luck one way or other is
not worth discussing. Soon after Weiss had passed the
19,000 mark Roberts pulled himself together for a supreme
effort, and scored—this was on the Thursday—lsB6 points
to Weiss’s 909, but it was noticeable that towards the end
of the evening he missed easy shots. It was Weiss who
had the balls in play when time was called. Scores,
20,131 to 19,420. On the last day, therefore, Roberts was
required to make 1580 before Weiss could put in 896. He
had got within 711 points of the long start man, but he
was finally beaten by more than 800. In short, his nerve
was not equal to the strain.
* * * •
A Maoriland owner who dreamt that he rode
his ’chaser over five gorse hedges, and then jumped over a
cliff, found the mare dead at the bottom of a precipice
next morning.
* * * *
That plucky little amateur pedaller, W. Dowd,
outpaced all objectors in the 5-miles Amateur Austra-
lasian Championship at the Brisbane trophy meet, and
scored another victory for the silver ribbon Massey-Harris
wheel.*
Duncan Gillies, the shiny, red gentleman
of Vic. politics, asked as a candidate what he
thinks is a fair wage for a workman, always re-
plies: “As much as he can get.” Frank Madden,
the man who has the appearance of being badly
built of bluestone, has caught up the cry and it is
echoed by Tory candidates who want to dodge
questions about the Factories Act. But Gillies
gives his case away. The workers are entitled to
as much as they can get—by Factory Acts, Mini-
mum Wage Acts, Protective tariffs, and any other
means. And being entitled to as much as they
can get they are also entitled to elect men who
will help them to get it—not men like Gillies and
Madden.
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. reports
that the harvest prospects are still lading slightly. In
some of the western districts hot winds and lack of rain
have so scorched up the crop that it will have to be cut
for hay. Fortunately, in other districts, especially the
Riverina, the crops continue to flourish, and
unless a cold snap or a plague of locusts call
in, the 1900-1 season will still be a record one.
In Victoria and South Australia prospects are fairly
satisfactory, but the yield per acre is expected to be
less than our own. In the market wheat is still stagnant.
Freights continue to be as murderous as Jimmy Governor,
and as scarce as Joe, and there is an easier tone in Mark
Lane ; so shippers are doing nothing, while millers con-
tinue to buy only on a falling market. One or two large
lines have changed hands for dispatch to the other side,
but the figures paid are below what growers care to part
for. Some optimistic people declare that January next
will see an improvement, but the fact that freights will
probably be about as high and that the new grain will be
pouring into the chief seaports of the continent rather
indicates that the previous season’s grain will be utterly
squelched by that of the present harvest. Meanwhile
quotations may be given : Prime 2s. Bd., F.A.Q. 2s. 7d. to
2s. 7id. ; punched and chickwheat 2s. 2d. to 2s. 4d. per
bushel.
The action of the Queensland Government in the
matter of the late James Tyson’s estate, savors
very much of highway robbery. It not only
wants to charge succession-duty on Tyson’s
property in Queensland, but it demands nearly
£70,000 duty on his property in other States. The
basis of the claim is that the wandering millionaire,
who had homes and property in three States, and
roved in his grey suit over a wide expanse of
territory, was “domiciled” in Queensland. Of
course, if the Government wins its action it will
recover the money out of that part of the estate
which is within its reach. And as the N.S.W.
and Victorian properties must pay succession
duties in these States, a great part of the estate
will thus be taxed twice. In fact there seems no
reason why the N.S.W. and Victorian Govern-
ments should not also find that Tyson was more
or less domiciled within their territories, arid like-
wise charge succession-duty on the whole 'estate,
in which case it would all be taxed three times.
Any Parliament has power to tax to any extent it
pleases property within its territory, but when it
claims the right to tax property not in its territory
it seems very like bushranging without violence.
Apparently if a rich man had property scattered
over the seven States of Australasia, and divided
his time among them pretty equally, it might be
decided after his death that he was domiciled in
all of them, and then when the whole seven had
levied succession-duty on his estate there might
be no estate left.
Alleged that when the N.S.W. China
contingent arrived in Chow-land and was in-
spected by British officers, its band greeted them
with that joyful tune from the “Belle of New
York ” —“ Of course you can never be like us, but
be as like us as you can manage to be.”
George Rolfe, of the Cauliflower Inn,
Botany-road, Waterloo (Sydney), has just died,
aged 80 years. He had held the licence continu-
ously since 1850.
The A.N.A. organ. Advance Australia,
publishes a wild diatribe against The Bulle-
tin :
That unique example of presumption and arrogance—
the Sydney Bulletin— is again vilifying the A.N.A. That
newspaper, the predominant feature of which, next to
its diatribes of abuse, is its consistent inconsistency, is
envious of the great success of the A.N.A., and jealous
lest the recent development of our organisation in
N.S.W. and the inevitable foothold which our association
must secure in every centre of population throughout
the Commonwealth, may relegate that newspaper to its
proper place. It is not so overwhelmed with the sense of
its own importance as not to recognise that once the
A.N.A. is federated and possessed of one common policy
that it will be a power in the land. Nor
is it so purblind to its own interests as
to fail to appreciate that article of our faith
which requires the suppression or incineration of all ob-
scene literature and indecent advertisements. To effect
that purpose will be part of our national work ; indeed,
the Victorian section of the A.N.A. has already started to
do it.
That pro-Boer quasi-low-comic newspaper, with charac-
teristic audacity and unblushing impertinence, claims
amongst its aspirations that it is “ an Australian national
newspaper.” The experiences of the past twelve months
have proved that it by no means reflects Australian
national opinion. Tub Bulletin is “an Australian
national newspaper” merely by assumption of title. We
do not hesitate to charge it with being a nefarious medium
for the spreading of the germs of mental disease amongst
the youth of our nation.
The Bulletin, it may be remembered, pointed
out that the A.N. A.’s medical benefit scheme was
a gross and shameful case of sweating the medi-
cal profession. And the nearest the A.N.A. can
get to proving that it doesn’t sweat the medical
profession is to yell “ Pro-Boer !” What a lot of
dog-meanness is successfully explained away
nowadays by merely saying that somebody else is
“Pro-Boe r 1”
THE BIRD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Give War God one chance,” I heard
A voice in dreamland say.
'Twas like the chirping of a bird
When brightly dawns the day—
The early bird that catches worms
And gobbles them with glee ;
It must have flown from Flemington
To chirp those words to me—
“ Give War God one more chance.”
“ There’s Tarquin, Chief, La Carabine ”
I muttered, dozing still—
“ The grass upon the Flat is green,
And likewise on the Hill.”
“ This world is rich in verdant things,
But flats look often blue,”
The bird observed ; then spread its wings,
Repeating as it flew—
“ Give War God one more chance."
A hint to turn some verses off,
A “ tip ” to put in rhyme.
And if it fails ? Then readers scoff,
Forgetful of the time
When Mentor did the blessed trick.
A winning “ tip” looks well,
But he who doth a loser pick
Is d d to blackest h 1.
“ Give War God one more chance.”
The line is twisted in my brain,
I cannot get it out,
I wish the bird would come again
To ease me of a doubt.
Will War God take the prize outright,
Or be a runner-up,
Or finish with the “ second flight ”
Whilst Malster wins the Cup ?
“ Give War God one more chance.”
Big Georgy Fred’s a noble steed,
A son of Carbine, too,
i;d in.the straight he’ll hold a lead,
Provided he gets through.
Severity’s a cert., they say,
And Mora, she can go ;
Young Barbarossa, built to stay,
Must surely have a show.
“ Give War God one more chance.”
Black Merriwee, a year agone,
Was speedy, stout and kind ;
Men tell me, in an undertone—
“ He’ll not be far behind.”
Fleet Admiral, a luckless nag,
Might start in winning whim ;
The bookie with the leather bag
Would loudly' welcome him.
“ Give War God one more chance.”
They’ll serve up Kinglike pretty warm :
Perchance he’ll teach us soon
He wasn’t running up to “ form ”
The other afternoon
There’s Lancaster, with handy weight—
A “ monte ” 1 it is said ;
And Clean Sweep I must gravely state,
Can romp ’ome on ’is ’ead.
“ Give War God one more chance.”
Heigho 1 Give War God one more chance.
His claim is fairly strong ;
He will not lead the field a dance
He’s loth to come along ;
But still he’s there when others drop
Behind the foremost few.
I’ll back the old ’un win and “ shop,”
Instead of something new.
Give War God one more chance.
That dreamland bird with “ tip ” absurd,
I wait for it in vain,
To bring to me one final word
And make its meaning plain.
Each night I place a feast of crumbs
Beside my little bed,
But, seeing that it never comes,
Let’s hope my bird is dead.
“Give War God one more chance.”
EDMUND FISHER.


GETTING ACQUAINTED
h
When you have once
become acquainted
with the genuine
Purity, Strength,
and Flavour of
Derby
TOBACCO,
you will never change to any other brand.
“DERBY” MAKES FRIENDS AND KEEPS THEM.
H you don’t smoke DERBY, you haven’t tried it yet.
GET ACQUAINTED WITHOUT DELAY.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY COY.,
Hall-Marked Silver SHAVING SET in Case,
containing Silver Shaving Brush, Silver Soap
Holder, and Silver-Mounted Powder Box.
Price £3.
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE 3400.
Hai)dson>«
(Sifts
For
<Sei)tlen)ei)
WtHmamuHuMta
Hall-Marked Silver-Mounted China
SHAVING MUG, 10s 6d.
With Silver-Mounted Brush, 18s.
Silver-plated SHAVING MUG, with
Brush, complete, from 10s 6d.
PRACTICE
is the
Most valuable of all experience.
Special training is necessary, but experience crowns ifc.
Our Mr. A. A. ROBERTS has done nothing but test
vision for many years past.
Opticians to the
Walker Hospital
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter-st., Sydney.
For Sale.
«« pULLETIW'S. 11 —Seventeen and a-half years com-
O plete. Whole of 6d. edition. Price, £25.
“ Bulletin,” Box 594, G.P.0., Sydney.
ICE-HEM FREEZES
tei erf
WHICH REQUIRES NO
TURNING OF HANDLE.
Prioe, 15/_
Send for Catalogue.
Brandt Bros.,
236 Pitt St., Sydney,
AND
422 & 424 Elizabeth St.,
“ APENTA,"
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty and
the Obese. Apply to chemists for “ Regimen for the
Obese ” Card.
Published by the APOLLINARIS COMPANY Ltd., Lond.
Jemmy Governor is to be sent to Sydney
for trial at Darlinghurst. In 1863, N.S.W. Govt,
issued instructions to all country benches to com-
mit all cases of bushranging to a special commis-
sion, presided over by Alfred Stephen, at Darling-
hurst, and that course was followed for years. It,
at all events, made Sydney the head show spot.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Milton Rathbun, of New York, recently
undertook a long fast, for the second time, to re-
duce his weight, but such heroic methods are not
likely to be adopted by many. Moderation in
diet, however, has long been recommended in
conjunction with certain mineral waters, the use
of which is strongly advised by medical authori- i
ties. For instance, the British “ Medical Jour- |
nal ” goes so far as to say that the efficiency of
Apenta, a Hungarian aperient water,_ for the sys-
tematic treatment of obesity, is clinically estab-
lished. Professor Gerhardt, Berlin, says that
Apenta produces a reduction of fat in the body
without detriment, as the general health of the
patient suffers in no wise, the cure running its
course in a satisfactory manner.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
Premier John Forrest addressing the
Westralian Assembly re the Perth Ice Co. that
very remarkable concern which is charged (or
some of its officials are) with wholesale and retail
frauds on the Railway Department (Adelaide
Observer report 20/10/1900):
Instead of blaming the Directors, if people are as
honest-minded as thev ought to be, they will sympathise
with them, because not only have their names been
bandied about the country in a way they ought not to be,
but they have lost their property ; and shareholders hold-
ing shares worth £2 have sold them for 10s. —they were
so disgusted with what had taken place. I sold my
shares for £2 after the matter came to light, as I was run
after for them, and did not wish to be mixed up with the
Company.
If that is a true report —well, it looks as if John
Forrest, who surely ought to have had a better
chance than some people to know the real size of
the exposure and disaster that were coming, sold
out from the noblest motives and escaped the
worst of the slump. Also that someone else, who
perhaps hadn’t such good information, is now in
the hole that he climbed out of, for there is talk
of a call, or perhaps more than one, to make good
the suras that the Ice Co, didn’t pay to the Rail-
way Department.
FOR the person who is not ft millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
TO CYCLISTS AND CYCLE REPAIRMEN . .
± Slr- YOU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINEB!
“ IMPERIAL ” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rims and
Dunlops.
“IMPERIAL” Special Racers with same fittings.
American 1900 Model Component Sets, complete with
every fitting, all ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze can build a bicycle
“ MORROW ” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Back Pedal
Brake —saves the rider 40 per cent.
Write for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
Sundries, Novelties and Second-hand Wheels. GOOD
AGENTS wanted where not at present represented. Marine
Oil Engines and Launches —particulars and designs. A
post-card will bring you all information of our lines.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ORNAM€NTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English Hair
Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and write for
any Information. Country Orders receive our prompt
and careful attention.
HAIRDRESSERS & WIGMAKERS.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Every Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
New South Wales . . . \
Barbers’ Supply House f
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
BJBSEs
RCiptOre
CCired^*-
TX7 HEN we say “ RUPTURE CURED ”
vv we mean it, for it is a fact that
thousands of cures have been accomplished by Dr.
Pierce's World-renowned ELECTRIC TRUSS during
the past twenty-five years. There is nothing else like it
on earth I It does the work! Have received so many
letters and testimonials that we hardly know what to do
with them all. If ruptured investigate at once. Our
prices are reasonable, but not cheap. We make no-dis-
counts. “ Dr. Pierce’s ” is THE Truss, and you cannot
be happy till you get it.
You can get our BOOKLET No, 1 ” for nothing by
calling, or it will be sent to you on receipt of a stamp.
It tells all about this TRUSS. Address :
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co. v
620 Market St., SAN FRANOISOO., U.S.A.;or
160 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
*. H. SOUL & 00., Agents.
Amusement*.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Under the Direction ol Mr. J. O. Williambo*. „
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stowam.
EVERT EVENING,
The Rose of Persia*
The Captivating Oomio Opera bv Sir Arthur SnlHvan
and Captain Basil Hood. „T, nwW i
MULTITUDES DELIGHTED NIGHTLY, AND CROWDS
UNABLE TO OBTAIN ADMISSION.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 6s; Stalls and
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan b.
HER MAJEBTY’B THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas.. J. B. Moutne.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at
THE NANCE O’NEIL SEASON.
Saturday, Nov. 8, “SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.” Wad-
nesday, Nov. 7, “ELIZABETH.”
and 12, “MAGDA.” Tuesday, Nov. 13, CAMILLE.
Plan, Nioholson’B. PRICES —65., 35.« 25., ndj*.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Leasee and Manager ... -• Alfrxd Damn.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
and the Ladies and Gentlemen associated with him.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
ICKARDS’ “TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. Harry Riokarbs.
Gigantic Success. Enthusiastic Reception of
MISS LOTTIE COLLINS,
The Originator of “ Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay.”
ANNIE MAY ABBOTT, THE GEORGIA MAGNET,
TOD CALLAWAY, FANNY POWER, Mr WILL
WHITBURN, ALBERT WHELAN, JESSIE WILLIAMS,
Ferry, the Human Frog, Wallace King, and all our
Great Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday^
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Prolonged Applause Greets England’s Burlesque Queen,
BILLEE BARLOW.
Gigantic and Enthusiastic Success of PAUL’B ANIMATO-
CRAPHE, EMMONDS, EMMERSON and EMMONDS,
THE THREE HAYTORS (Frank, Edie and Arthur),
BILLY M'CLAIN, OHAS. WALKER, Mr. HARRY
SHINE, and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrovb.
Business Manager
Mr. Harry Musgrovb.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1, LOHENGRIN.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, CARMEN.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3, LOHENGRIN.
Dress Circle, 7s. 6d. ; Reserved Stalls, 6s. ; Unreserved
Front Stalls, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Family Circle, 25.; Amphi*
theatre, One Shilling. Plan at Allan’s.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. .. Bland Holt.
Derby Night, Saturday, Nov, 3,
Re-introduction to Melbourne of Bland Holt and his
Premier Popular Dramatic Organisation in the Up-to-date
Transvaal Melodrama,
Absent-Minded
The
Beggar.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. 6d., 2s, Is. and 6d. Box Plan
at Allan’s. CHRISTIE SIMONSENS, Bus. Manager.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, NOV. 1 and 2, LAST TWO
NIGHTS of WILLIAM AHDERSON’S
Popular Season.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of the Great Melodrama,
THE WORLD’S VERDICT.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
FITZGERALD BROS.'
. . . HUGE COMBINED SHOWS . . .
CirctiS tyeoageric!
LOCATION :
EXHIBITION OVAL,
MELBOURNE.
A whirlwind of enthusiastic appreciation, increasing
nightly to a cyclone of applause. Every act,
feature and sensation cheered by
vast multitudes of delighted
spectators.
A programme too vast to specify every individual attrac-
tion is presented nightly.
STAR CLOWNS
TRAPEZISTS
JOCKEYS m
EQUESTRIENNES “Si
m- CONTORTIONISTS
S3T ELEPHANTS
S3!' HORSE-TAMERS
and EMINENT ARTISTS
in every branch of circus exhibition.
SHOWS^
Wednesdays and Saturdays.
CUP DAY{ Afternoon Show }CUP DAY
Box Plan at W. H. Glen & Co., Music Warehouse,
Collins-street.
Trams to gates, and leaving for all parts after the per-
formances.
F. JONES, Press Representative.
HAL. GEORGE, Secretary.
Missing Friends.
JAMES GALWAY,
OON of RICHARD GALWAY and MAR.
G A RET RILEY, who was born while his
parents were living on a farm belonging to a
MRS. LYNDON, situated about fifty miles from
GOULBURN, NEW SOUTH WALES, is
requested to communicate at once with the
undersigned from whom he will hear of something
greatly to his advantage.
ANYONE giving information to the under-
signed as to the whereabouts of the above-named
JAMES GALWAY will be rewarded.
STRINGER & CRESSWELL,
Barristers and Solicitors,
A.M.P. Buildings,
Cathedral Square,
Christchurch, NEW ZEALAND.
A Fact That Looks Queer.
Here is a fact, which, on the face of it, looks
queer The more we multiply destructive guns
and other slaughtering machines, the less is the
percentage of men killed in battle.
Caesar thought if at least 50 per cent of the
participants were not killed outright in one of his
engagements, he had stumbled upon a meeting of
the Universal Peace Society.
In Napoleon’s wars the killed in battle averaged
25 per cent., in the American Civil War 20 per
cent., and in our little South African debate, it
has been about seven or eight per cent.
At this rate, in a few years more, the only
really safe lace for a timid man will be a big
battle ; and the insurance rates on the lives of
military gentlemen in active practice will be
lower than the rates on tract distributors or hotel
porters.
The reason for this will be mentioned, if I don’t
forget it, later on in the present writing. Mean-
while, a cognate topic comes up —the question
why disease does more damage than gunpowder,
cold steel, or dynamite.
For over twenty years Mrs. Eliza Maybrey was
one of the wounded in the great army that never
handles lyddite shells or Krag-Jorgensen rifles.
She says she constantly retched and spit up
phlegm. Associated with this disabling trouble
there was a hacking cough which never let up day
or night. She says she often had to fairly fight
for her breath, and was so exhausted with the
struggle that she could hardly get about the
house ; and that her stomach was so weak as to
render eating almost useless, considered as a
means of renewing strength.
| |“I took,” says the lady, “so many medicines
during my long contest with my complaint, that
I pretty much lost faith in drugs. Then a neigh-
bour told me what good Mother Seigel’s Syrup
had done her, and I began taking it on her word,
and was quickly relieved. My symptoms got
milder, and in the course of a rew weeks I ate and
digested anything I wanted, and grew strong and
well. I know many in this district who have been
cured by Mother Seigel’s Syrup.”—Mrs. Eliza
Maybrey, Earlswood, Shirenewton, near Chep-
stow, April sth, 1899.
Seated with the rest of us around a campfire,
another soldier of the legion says “Up to the
early part of last year I had always enjoyed the
blessing of good health. Then I fell by the way-
side. I could not make out what ailed me. I had
no strength, and food did me no good. My flesh
wasted away until my clothing hung on me as,
it might be, on a wire figure. When I was
worrying over my miserable condition, T read of
what Mother Seigel’s Syrup had done for others
in the same sad plight, and got a bottle from
Price’s Drug Stores. In a week I was better, and
was soon completely cured.”—Mrs. Mary Bagley,
29a, Lower Trinity-street, West Bromwich, near
Birmingham, Sept. Bth, 1899.
“For many years,” say another —a man this
time—“l suffered from indigestion. I felt low,
weak, and heavy. My appetite was poor, and
after eating I had pain in the chest. I was often
troubled with wind on the stomach, which rose
into my throat and half choked me. I had much
pain at the heart, and palpitation when I walked
of worked. Finally, I was obliged to give up my
work. Doctors and medicines failing, I tried
Mother Seigel’s Syrup, which helped me right out
of hand ; and in a brief time it cured me. lam
now strong and well as before the disease attacked
me.” —J. W. Scott, Postmaster, Shirenewton,
near Chepstow, Mon., April sth, 1899.
The reason why the casualties decrease in
modem battles, notwithstanding the fearful
weapons of destruction used, is this:—Armies
fight at long ranges, and take every advantage of
shelter. On the day when Alexander slew 100,000
Persians between sun and sun, the armies fought
face to face, and chopped one another into bits
with swords. Let the Peace people not fret;
military science will presently rob war of all its
terrors, and battlefields will be popular with
parties out on picnics.
But as for the war against disease, that will be
conducted on the old principles with Mother
Seigel’s Syrup whipping the enemy in every
conflict.
In the row between Sleath, M.L.A., chairman
of N.S.W. Military Inquiry Committee, who puts
his feet on the table, and Major-Gen. French
who refuses to answer certain questions put to
him by the man with his feet on the table, there
is much to be said for the General. Answering
Sleath’s questions is publishing the weakness of
the Cornstalk defences to all the world, which
means doing possible serious harm. And it isn’t
likely to produce any corresponding good, for the
non-military committee and the non-military
.Parliament won’t understand the gravity of the
case if French explains it. The information will
be mostly wasted on them, and it won’t be wasted
by any means on the outside world. Probably if
the whole lamentable story was told at length in
the papers it would make so little impression on
a public that didn’t comprehend the details of
the case that it wouldn’t result in the provision of
an extra man or an extra gun. And if outsiders
didn’t know the whole story before, they certainly
would know all about it after that pu-blic ex-
planation.
It would really appear that nobody save
the N.S.W. Govt, is responsible for that dreary
eyesore, Devonshire-st. cemetery, Sydney. The
place is supposed to be governed by trustees, but
the last batch of trustees are all dead, and as they
pegged out one by one nobody remembered to
appoint any successors. The place owes 20 years’
municipal rates, but there is nobody to collect
them from. So the tombstones totter at their
own sweet will, and the ungoverned bones run
riot over the premises. When a city is ruled by
43 councils and multitudes of boards, trusts,
commissions, &c., some body or other is always
liable to die out unnoticed, and leave something
without care or guidance, and until the smell of
that something becomes too apparent, nobody
notices that an institution is missing.


Banking. Public
Upon - all -
Security.
Companies, &c.
Classes - of
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
rKT.S.'W.
(||ont deplete flj |. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
e^s
c
Assurance Society
Limited. ...
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian mutual fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass, Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
'-THE-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,000—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4.800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4W> .. £3.196,353 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bishopagate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
Ntw SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GKOHGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford with agency at Wyong\ New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
The Bank of |jnrth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A. J. Oharker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ..£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250,000 ... £350.000
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
|)eui Zeal and Insurance Co.
FIRE and MARINE.
CAPITAL ....... ■ £1,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL and RESERVES .. 420,000
Largest, Colonial Company.
J. A. MINNETT,
Manager.
81 Pitt St., Sydney.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LIME.
TO
West Sl South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Friday, Nov. 2, 6 p.ra.
Tyrian, Saturday, Nov. 3, 2 p
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIItIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 3, 2 p.m.
Burivah, Tuesday, Nov. 6, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 10, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSYILLE
Peregrine, Saturday, Nov. 3, 2 n m
Leura, Saturday, Nov. 10, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cariro
booked throusrh.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
rolonhn « Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
WynyaKreels! Bui,dinffs ’ corHer and
Wharves—Foot of Kinc-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Jb€ TrCist€€s, €x€QCitorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED... £l5O 000 0 n
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... " £9OOOO 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY . ... .'.V AToZo 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 n g
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F . R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq. C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
•vr /s „. FREI)K - A - RANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Colhns-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Z' alatid Government .. 2 000 000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New ’ ’
Zealand Government .. .. 500 000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
£3,000,000
VICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
DEBENTURES.
The SAYINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
TtnAma° n , MO^ DA Y- sth NOVEMBER, for MORTGAGE
BO.NDS, bearing interest at 3£ per cent. Tender
forms and conditions supplied at all SAVINGS BANKS
in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria.
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
I—IUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.; Hoii!
Henry Moses, M.L.C.; Hon. Richard Jones, M.L.G.:
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors:
W. L. Docker and E. S. Gape.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; \V. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
Bondon Office: 18 Birchin - Bane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Danger, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
United IpsciraiKe Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Lo w.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
ħ
Is a. restorative and physical. regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on the
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and perman-
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A. Chemical Co., Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 25th November.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
PERSIC, RUNIC, SUEVIC and MEDIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally i s drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon arid Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
I,'NGLAND VIA A M ERICA
® J by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINU>
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding- alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Svdney
and Auckland for Apia (Samca), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
ALAMEDA
SIERRA
MARIPOSA
Tons.
3158 Dec.
Dec.
3158 Jan.
Leave
S.vdnej
at 1 p.m.
Leave
Auckland.
Arrive aft
San
Francisco,
4 Dec.
25 Dec.
15 Jan.
8 December 20
29 January 14
19 February 4
lickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their ;ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on- the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorahle terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
. £ „ er information, apply Union S'em Ship Co.
or N.Z., Lid., Equitable Buildings, George Street
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
3NT. D. xZ
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,900; Over 3f million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
"TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
■ x- Si Uiui IJ Uicicanvr cvcij Si A. wetJIVS.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney. General Agents.
NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
"Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MININQ, INSURANCE
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Bed;
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CoOTHING in Australia
PimPRIETAHT LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
ft.
Our Suit to order at 425. is
marvellous value: made from
a'l wool '1 weeds Vicunas, or fast
color Series ; it is perfect fitting
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class > f material. £3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, %ery
goo I patterns 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits to measure. £l #
Cleric * 1 Suits, to measure. &>«
It dmg Bre ches. 255.
Biding Habits. <fcc.
i We supply ready made. Men’s
l capital T u eed Suits 21s. & 255.
f Fam us Ballarat Suits,
f Indisro dye, 2 s.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Serge ette “*uits.3«s.
Excellent l weed or Serge
Trousers. ss. I Id.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests I9s lid.
Men's Grass Cloth Summer
Buits, 19s lid. Wiite Drill
Sacs and Trousers. 10s. lid.
Khaki Suits, shrunk. 12s lid.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
lis. 9d. White and Brown Drill
Trousers 3s. 9d., 4s 9d., ss. Gd.
Travelling Trunks, Ba,s and
Bugs in great variety
Men’s White Sliiits, colored
front and cuffs. 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. lid.
White Mat*e Shirts, collar and
pocket. 3s. gd.
So t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d., all
colors.
Hard Hats. 4". 6<*- Caps. Is,
ft* erino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d.
Neckties, allshapes and colors.
Is.
w '‘i te Shirts to measure. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots.
6*- 9d.. 9s. <jd. •
We like to write letters; so don’t be afraid to. ask for any
information. Our book, “The Philosophy of liress ” and
patterns of a 1 kinds and self-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
A Rose of Regret:
Yeraes by .Tames Hebbt.kthwaite.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAISHIPCO.
(UMITKD).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West A ustrali an , South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOK MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
FORT I*l RIE
And GULF FORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transh> pp inga t Fremanll.
to all North Western Pori .-
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
November 2.
S.S. Wollowra (from Melb.),
Wednesday, November 7.
BRISBANE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Poets North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
November 2.
«S,l r!" d ( l "‘"l’tixf Route to Goldfields.
first Pnrr h SS i lge t “' l^l ? l . are interchangeable after the
5 f between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.sj. C o. and W. Howard Smith and
rhnno-PQn° r and WA - a " tickets ar e inter-
tl . H ? Wlth the A-U-S-N. Co. onlv. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUBLL & CO., LTD.,
- Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A- U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
royal mail coastal service.
THE 1*01*1! [,A it PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOYVN MAIL LINE -Weekly,
oa Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
™'yNSV!LLE LOCAL POKTS-Weekly.
S AND ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-livery 3 Weeks, via Bris
,a ' le ’ Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
ana Norm an ton.
Svhmw NEV L^ I EDONIA , AHD FIJI, Monthly.
SIDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
Fortnightly.
Passetif/er A ceotuniodut ton , A ttendnnce find
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst, port betvveen Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
®,, . e Ad elaid eS. S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
,° conditions to be ascertained on application,
or Adelaide and YV. Australia all tickets are'inter-
clla & le with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
K . PHILP anrl 00, Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
and Agencies at all Australasian Ports/
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON.
douching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
jSyd ney,
I Noon
INDIA
AUSTRALIA ..
VICTORIA '6527
ROME .. 5545
6525jF. H. Seymour
911
6301
|Nov. 17
W. D. G. Worcester, It.N.R. Deo. 1
I. Reeves ... ...iDeo. 15
E. Crewe _ .. (Dec. 29
J- Cowie, R.N.R. . Man. 12
r> a oc.^,*/ ol >', lk ' an ' V S steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, 1:38 10s to £77
„ a 0 ,' 1 , 10 Return. 171 10sto 1121
rCetuin Xickets (Ist Saloon)between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
roo i n - Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia, Exchange Corner. Pitt and Bridge Streets
Huddart, parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND B.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatchec
as follows:
FOR MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer. jTns | Commander. Leave Sydney
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIE
EASTERN .
! I |
3000 P. T. Helms ...'November
2500 YV. G. M'Arthur ... December
3600 Winthrop Ellis .. December
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
|||‘|luiraith, IH‘jjacharn& go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
M'ilwraith, M’Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Messageries Maritime®
SYDNEY TO LONDON,*via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE ADE-
kMALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
_ - —,—oouacu to Dunmav, inaia. China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £27 to £77
including table wines. 1
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD. -
Mpon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give theirt every assistant
an » ( i7.?l PaBS,n? ‘heir luggage through the Custon^
‘return Tirrnrr a « y /^- en J to o^ aris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter
colonial Ports are available for return by p! and O
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company Offices
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney winces,
R- BRASIER DF. THUY. Principal Age,,


THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA Ltd.
THE FIFTEENTH REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
1. The Balance-sheet of the Bank as on 30th September last, and the Profit and Loss Account for the half-year
which then terminated, ari now submitted to the shareholdeis. . , • «md
2. The net profit, after deducting expenses of management, and the other items specified in t. j 2l
account, amounted to 15 8
Balance from previous half-year
£40,609 7 9
Deduct transfer to reserve fund . . . . • • •> n 0
Deduct note and income taxes in Australia and Great Britain • • • • • • g g
T . ~ £37,268 0 1
Leaving available •*
Which it is proposed to appropriate as follows : £ 7 044 40 0
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on preference shares 17’856 12 0
Dividend at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum on ordinary shares .. • • • • • • n ’ 736 18 x
Carry forward " '* “ ” .—I
£37,268 0 1
connection with Kerang branch in Victoria.
I h Thf e O?dilr P y o GenefafMe;t\nfwm be hd^at 320 Collins-street, Melbourne, on
Wednesday, 7th Nov ;m^ y er^ r^e “ he Board o{ Directors, JOHN G. ADDISON, Assistant Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
Head Office —Melbourne, 22nd October, 1900. ■
STATEMENT of the ASSETS and LIABILITIES of the ABOVE MENTION ED BANK.
TW the assets and liabilities of the Bank on the 30th September, 1900 (including London Office to 25th August, 1900,
T a nd Western Australian branches to 17th September, 1900), were as follows
AGGREGATE BALANCE-SHEET for the Half-Year Ending Sept. 30, 1900.
£305,780 0 0
CAPITAL and LIABILITIES.
To proprietors’ capital —
30,578 preference
shares, paid in money
to £lO per share ..
238,488 ordinary shares
issued, paid up to £4
per share, £953,952 ;
calls of £3 per share
fully paid in money,
£715,464—£1,669,416;
less written off the
ordinary shares by
order of the Supreme
Court, £476,976 .. 1,192,440
~ reserve fund ac
count
„ Profit" and loss ac
count • v
0 0
55,000 0 0
37,268 0 1
305,515 2 6
812,741 4 10
513,692 19 0
Notes in circulation..
„ Bills in circulation..
To Government deposits-
Not bearing interest,
£51,313135. ; bearing-
interest, £462,379 6s.
To other deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£2,424,138_ Bs. 4d. ;
bearing interest,
£2,992,082 3s. 8d .. 5,416,220 12 0
„ Interest accrued and
rebate on current
bills .. •• •• 48,547 11 8
Balances due to
other banks .. .. 228,141 15 3
£1,590,488 0 1
7,324,859 5 3
£8,915,347 5 4
ro contingent liability, as per contra,"
£292,952 19s. 9d.
_ ASSETS.
By coined gold* and sil-
ver and other coined
metal .. .. ..£1,518,631
„ Coined gold in tran-
situ .. .. . • 225,000
„ Gold or silver in bul-
lion or bars .. .. 59,000
~ cash at bankers . . 5,018
~ Government,munici-
pal, and other pub-
lic stocks, deben-
tures, and funds .. 736,209
„ Notes and bills of
other banks .. .. 6,490
„ Balances due from
other banks .. .. 35,486
~ Bills in transitu .. 568,485
6
0
5
9
19
19
8
17
6
0
4
1
8
4
7
-£3,154,323
Or.
5 8
~ Beal estate, consisting of bank pre-
mises, at cost to the bank .. .. 454,454 6 8
„ Other real estate, at cost to the bank,
less £73,125 7s. 6d. written off .. 462,241 4 11
~ Advances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts .. .. 3,848,045 13 3
~ Bills of exchange and promissory-
notes discounted, not included in
above, exclusive of provision for bad
and doubtful debts .. .. . • 993,537 10 6
„ Duty stamps .. .. •• 2,745 4 4
£8,915,347 5 4
By liability of the old bank, in the form
of a guarantee of certain shire and
municipal debentures (Victoria) sold
in London, and which are being duly
provided for -by sinking funds, in
terms of the act authorising their
issue, £113,600 ; and liabilities of
customers and others on letters of
credit and drafts, £179 352 19s. 9d.,
as per contra, £292,952 19s. 9d.
PROFIT AND LOSS
ACCOUNT.
To expenses at head office, 109 branches,
and 13 agencies £ o
Note and income taxes .. .. •• }J
Transfer to reserve fund account .. t
Balance 37,268 0
£93,196 18 5
By balance brought forward £10,225 15 t
„ Gross profits, including recoveries, less
rebate on bills current, interest paid and
accrued on deposits, repairs to pre-
mises, and rent. „ $2,971 2 !
£90,196 18
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
£55,000 0 0
By balance last, half-year .. .. .. £54,977 12 4
„ Transfer from profit and loss account .. 22 7 t
£55,000 0 (
JOHN G. ADDISON, Assistant Chief Manager.
j been proved beyond all doubt that nothing equals
& PERRINS’ SAUCE
THE MOST ECONOMICAL IN USE.
The Original Worcestershire.
Agents— VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.
LEA
A REMINDER.
MAILS FOR ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, IRELAND,
and WALES.
Leave Sydney.
October 30
November 6
November 13
November 20
November 27
December 4
Arrive in London.
December 2.
December 9.
December 16.
December 23.
December 30.
January 6,1901.
MAILS FOR AMERICA
For San Francisco.
Leave Sydney
November 21
December 19
Arrive
December 14
January 11, 1901.
For Vancouver.
Leave Sydney
November 7
December 5
Arrive
November 29.
December 27.
FOR SOUTH AFRICA.
Leave Sydney
November 9
December 10
Arrive at Capetown
December 10.
January 7, 1901.
Christmas and Qea year Cards for 1900 and 1901.
TWIN EVENTS
THE NEW CENTURY.
THE BIRTH OF A NATION.
i r*i
.... BROTHCRS, Pitt Street,
40 mar* „he above events, have imported the Largest, Most Varied, and the Choicest Lot of Cards
and Calendars ever seen in Australia, apropos of the occasion. ,
Loose Cards, 6d to 30s ner dozen, post free. Envelopes sent with each Cam.
PACKET CARDS
The New Century Packet of .25 Cards. Post Free, Sd
The Commonwealth Packet of 50 Cards. Post Free,
Is 4d.
BOXED CARDS
The value in Boxed Cards is unapproachable.
No. 1 contains Ten charming Xmas and New Year
Cards with envelopes. Post free, Is.
No. 2 contains 10 Art Autograph Cards and Envelopes.
Post free, Is 3d.
No. 3, the “Empire” box, 8 Artistic Autograph
Cards and Envelopes. Post free, Is 6d.
No. 4, the “Sepia” box, of 10 choice Cards and
Envelopes. Post free. Is 6d.
No. 5, the “Tartan” box, suitable for sending to
Scotch friends, 9 Cards and Envelopes. Post free,
Is 6d. , „
No. 6, “ Staunch and True.” 8 Kbaln Cards (Lancers,
King’s Hussars, and Life Guards) with appro-
priate quotations. Post free, Is 6d.
No. 7 box contains 12 Assorted Comic Cards with
' Envelopes. Post free, Is 6d. .
No. 8 box contains 12 choice and specially selected
Cards and Envelopes. Post free. Is 6d.
No 9 box contains 12 selected Cards in Black and
White, with Envelopes. Post free, la 6d.
No. 10 box contains 20 Cards of exceptional value.
Post free, Is 6d. ~ . fVI
No. 11 box contains 8 chaste and artistic Cards with
Envelopes. Post free, Is 6d. .
No 12 box contains 6 beautiful Cards in Black and
White, with Envelopes. Post free, Is 6d.
No. 13 box contains 9 beautiful Cards with Envelopes.
Post free, Is 6d. , . „
No 14 box contains 20 well assorted and choice Cards
with Envelopes. Post free, 3s 2d ;or 2 boxes tor
No. lVLocal View Box of 10 Cards. Views of the
Harbour and Public Buildings in the City, with
Envelopes. Post free, ls.6d.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
Sydnei/’s Leaders of Fashions,
203. 205. 207, 203. 211 P tt-at-, Sy’ny.
FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY.
Tlxe
tig MSB GOLD DREOGine CO.,
NO LIABILITY.
Registered* under Fart 2 of “The Companies Act, 1899,” of
Hew South Wales.
Nominal Capital, £25,000, in 50,000 Shares of 10s. each, divided as follows:
16,000 Shares, fully paid. ,
18 000 Shares, Contributing, 2s. 6d. on application, 2s. 6d. on allotment,
and 16,000 Shares reserved for future issue for erection of a Second Dredger when necessary.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS :
Dr H V C HINDER, and Messrs. T. H. MARTIN, J. S. HUTCHINSON, K. S.
' HUNGERFORD, and W. S. JACOB.
BANKERS:
The COMMERCIAL BANKING CO. OF SYDNEY, Cor. Exchange Bch., Pitt-street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs LEE, COLQUHOUN, and BASSETT, City Bank Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney ; and
Messrs. BLAKE and RIGGALL, Melbourne.
SECRETARY :
ALFRED H. ROSS, 12 Post-Office Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney.
The Company has acquired an area of about 214 acres on the Buckland River, Victoria, in the
Parishes of Porepunkah, Wandihgong, and Buckland, and situated on the site of the famous Oxley
Diggings, and will work same by means of Bucket Dredges.
The property has been thoroughly prospected by Mr. K. S. Hungerford and Mr. H, R. Butter-
worth, M.E., A' 0.5. M., who has had many successful years experience in gold dredging m all its
branches in New Zealand.
The full reports of these .gentlemen may be had on application to the secretary, Mr. Alfred H
Ross at 12 Post Office-chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney, and by referring to these it will be seen that
the special features of the property, as shown in Mr. Hungerford s report, are as follow :
1. A large percentage of the leases is virgin ground, it having been too deep and wet to treat in
2 That even in the worked ground only the bottom wash has been treated.
3. That the gold found on the Buckland is coarse, and easily saved, and, moreover, is worth from
£4 2s. to £4 3s. per ounce. » ~ ~
4 That the top wash, which represents 12 to 15 feet of gravel, contains throughout highly-pay able
5 That headings and tailings, which lie on the surface in thousands of tons, prospected by him,
contained an average value of 12.7 grains per cubic yard. .
6. That ten Chinamen, working adjoining ground, were, at the time of Mr. Hungerford s inspec-
tion, obtaining 250 z. of coarse gold fortnightly. .
7 That the rock bottom is fairly even, and boulders are conspicuous by their absence.
8 That tliG ground on the whole of the flats on the leas©s can b© easily dredged, and there is no
9. That the water supply is plentiful, and firewood at hand unlimited.
Then by referring to Mr. Butterworth’s report, it will be seen that the most important features
if Mr. Hungerford’s report are corroborated, and from an engineering point of view.
Mr. Butterworth points out: —
1 That the whole of the property is. eminently suited for bucket dredging.
2. That there are no shallow rock bars and no large stones. , , ,
3. That practically there is no overburden, and, consequently, the dredges will have no dead and
4 That well within the mark to assume that there are 7,782,400 cubic yards of material
‘ capable of being dredged, and the value of this, taking the contents to be only 6 grains per
yard, would be £399,360, which would mean an annual income of more than the capital value
of the Company for 15 years to come.
It is also important to note that the rental of dredging ground in Victoria is only 2s. 6d. per acre
oer annum as against 20s. per acre per annum in New South Wales, and that gold from the claim is
worth £1 2s. per oz., as against the average of £3 17s. per oz. m New South Wales.
The Comoany has already acquired the machinery for the Dredge from the Australian Gold-
Dredging Co., Ltd., 10,000 feet of timber is at the claim, and Mr. Butterworth some time past started
his men at work building t ie pontoon.
The Dredge when finished, will have a working capacity of at least 8000 loads per week, and
when in commission will be one of the most up-to-date Dredges in the Colonies.
As obtaining machinery when required has been the stumbling block hitherto in the way of quick
Iredge-buildingf and as the machinery of this dredge is ready to be sent to the claim, it is safe to say
-hat gold winning will be in progress in March next year.
Any further information relative to the Company will be gladly supplied at the registered office,
12 Post-Office Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Pious Professor Harper, of Melbourne,
lecturing on the question “ Must a preacher prac-
tise all that he preaches?” says the parson must
not “keep down to the level of his own ethical
attainment.” Which may mean that the parson
need not trouble himself greatly to act up to his
published principles. “ Indeed,” says the Prof.>
“I counsel even a certain recklessness in this
matter” —that is in the excess of precept —“ for
whatever happens the ideal must be preached.”
Writes “Yon Kotze ” :
The Bulletin lately remarked on the relative value of
cleaning the streets and deodorising the language used
therein, which impels me to draw attention to the fact
that, despite the boasted spiritualism of our religion, we
still seem to value the body above the soul in our conven-
tions. The average well-meaning zealot will not hesitate
to publicly ask you, in a sepulchral voice, whether you
are prepared to meet your God ; or what you think of
Death, or Satan, or the sixth’chapter of Revelations ; nay,
he glories in what he is pleased to call “probing your
faith.” Vet, granted afly conventions at all, to a thought-
ful and rea'ly civilised being a naked soul in a public
place (within the meaning of the Act) must appear far
more indecent than a naked body. The benevolent prose-
lytiser thinks nothing of asking you to bare your heart to
him, in the presence of a sombrelv appreciative audience.
But if you ask the same benevolent party, for the sake of
an amateurish drawing-room experiment in pathology, to
publicly take off his clothes, the consequences would be
too horrible to contemplate. Yet Mrs. Grundy considers
herself a deeply pious lady, who places the soul far above
mere clay. Also, she claims the respectability that treats
all it meets according to precedence. There’s something
wrong somewhere —or is our boasted civilisation only a
very thin sort of varnish ?
Sydney advt.: —
HLAIEVOYANOE. —Mrs. O’Donoghue, daily.
O Seance To-night, 6d. Mr. O’Donoghue away all
this week. 2078 Brown-st.
The M‘Lean Government’s policy of re-
purchasing large estates in Victoria for purposes
of closer settlement has grieved the House of lucri
Landlords, which solemnly recorded, in its debate
on the proposed Whitfield purchase, that the
policy of settling the people on the land was
having an unsettling effect on the people. -this
is surely the Council’s prize insanity up to date.
When 'a man buys a farm he generally settles
down there for life. Supplying farms is fixing
the people on the soil. And the idea that a man
is more unsettled after he has got a farm and
settled down than before, when he was wandering
around looking for a farm, is a wondrous inspira-
tion on the part of the 48 Rich Dodderers.
The report of the officers of H.M.S. Mil-
dura, recently returned from a New Hebrides
cruise, shows plainly how things are drifting in
that group. In all cases of disputed land-owner-
ship the French trader “undoubtedly proves his
claim,” and “we are slowly but surely being
pushed out.” Besides, the French trader can
pursue his business unhampered by restrictions
that applv to his British or Australian brother.
The latter is forbidden to sell arms, ammunition,
or spirits to the native, whilst Johnny Crapaud
may deal in these articles at his own sweet will.
Unless the restriction be applied all round, the
Dual Control of the group exists solely for the
benefit of one party to the arrangement. I he
sooner Australia takes a leading hand m the
administration of this and the Solomon group,
the better for those of her people who have in-
vested labour and capital in them.
Go and preach to the people of saintliness still,
Forgive nothing of weakness, no sin in the herd,
But partake of the pleasures of life if you will,
For the parson need never be man of his “ Word ! ’


THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
DIRE CTORS :
Thb Hon. WILLIAM APLIN, M.L.0., Queensland.
ERNEST BAGG ALLAY, Esq., J.P., London.
J. A. BAM, Cape Colony.
The Hon. J. F. BURNS, New South Wales.
EDWARD HENRY BUTLER, Tasmania.
The Hon. A. M. CAMPBELL, Natal.
Lieut.-General The Hon. Sir ANDREW CLARKE, R.E., G.CMG CB CTF t„
Sir SAMUEL DAVENPORT, L.L.D., K.C.M.G., sU AusfcSiT ’ ’
C. C. de VILLIERS, Cape Colony.
The Hon. ALFRED DOBSON, Q.C., Solicitor-General; Tasmania.
Lieut.-Colonel GEORGE FERGUSON, South Australia
SEYMOUR THORNE GEORGE, New Zealand.
BENJAMIN WESLEY GREENACRE, M.L.A., Natal.
J. B. HARCOURT, New Zealand.
HENRY HENTY, Victoria.
The Hon. Sir ROBERT G. W. HERBERT, G.C.8., D.C.L.,
The Hon. ROBERT JAMESON, M.L.C., NataL
L.L.D., J.P,, D.L., London.
The Hon. J. F. LEVIEN, M.P., Victoria.
T H « Hon. Sib JAMES G LEE-STEEKE, K.C.M.G, Speyer of th. Legist™ A«embl y ,
Western Australia.
The Hon. WILLIAM THORLEY LOTON, M.L.C., Western Australia.
H. BYRON MOORE, Victoria.
Dr. EDWARD E. MORRIS, Melbourne University, Victoria.
The Hon. GEOROE M‘LEAN, M.L.C., New Zealand.
The Hon. ALBERT NORTON, M.L.0., Queensland.
The Hon. Sir JAMES PRENDERGAST, New Zealand.
The Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C., New South Wales
X“1 E ° RGE SHENTON " Kt - of the Legist™ Council, Western Austral
BRUCE SMITH, New South Wales.
LUDWIG WIENER, Cape Colony.
HERBERT WILMAN, Cape Colony.
The Hon. WALTER HORATIO WILSON, C.M.G., M.L.C., Queensland.
ARTHUR BONVILLE WERE, J.P., Victoria.
The Hon. AGAR WYNNE, M.L.C., Victoria.
Principal Office: 419 and 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
General Manager t
LESLIE J. PARK, A.I.A.
Assistant General Manager :
A- F. CROMBIE.
Actuary:
JAMES PULLAR, F.F.A.
Consulting Actuary
ROBERT THOMSON, F.I.A.
Report by the Directors i
connection with the Fifth Actuarial investigation of the
Affairs of the Society.
PTIHE Directors have the pleasure to present to the Members their Report in
connection with the Actuarial Investigation for the Quinquennium ended 31st
December, 1899, together with the Report of the Actuary and of the
Consulting Actuary to the Society.
In accordance with the Reports of the Actuaries, the Directors have satisfaction
in announcing that the surplus at the end of the Quinquennium amounted to
£278,879 14s. 4d.
Of this sum the Board has decided to add £67,969 to the Investment
Fluctuation Fund, bringing it up to £102,776 Os. 3d.
The Board has also decided to specially reserve a further sum of £35 000 to
bring the valuation to an Hm 3 J per cent, basis.
The amount of £175,910 14s- 4d. is thus left for allotment and distribution.
This, together with the amount of £25,864 15s. 3d. distributed during the
Quinquennium, as certified by the Actuary, is equal in reversion to over
£400,000.
In view of the fall in the rate of interest throughout the world, the Directors,
after most careful consideration, have deemed it desirable at once to make provision
for valuing on a3| per cent, basis. They feel assured that although this decision
involves a smaller bonus than might otherwise have been declared, they will receive
the hearty support of the members in their resolve thus to strengthen the reserves,
the effect of which will be to place the Society in an absolutely unassailable position
and lead to an increased bonus-earning power in the future.
P A he^:r” t : i r r T J theamOUntat ° redi * ° f the Fluctuation
nil o £102,776 Os. 3d. was arrived at after complete investigation of all the
assets of the Society. The Directors, however, hope that a smaller amount will in
actual experience, be found sufficient, but they have preferred to take a conservative
view rather than discount a possible or probable improvement in values in the
future.
The last five years have constituted an important period in the Society’s
history, the Directors having during that time modified the former policy of expan-
■on, and devoted themselves specially to consolidating the business and strengthen-
ing the position of the Society. The figures above quoted indicate how successful
that policy has proved resulting, as it has, in so large a surplus being disclosed,
notwithstanding the low rates of interest which have prevailed, and enabling the
Society at once to change the valuation rate to per cent.
The Directors feel that this is a result upon which they may congratulate the
members of the Society.
HENRY HENTY, Chairman.
LESLIE J. PARK, General Manager.
Melbourne, 4th October, 1900.
PROGRESS OF THE SOCIETY, 1873-1899.
Policies Issued—B2,6oo; Assuring—£2s,474,7oB.
Amounts paid to Policy-h01der5—£2,358,324.
Accumulated Funds at 31st December, 1899—£2,385,266.
Claims paid immediately on proof of death and Title
Premiums may be paid at any office of the Society in the
Colonies or in the United Kingdom. Policies are kept in force
out of surrender value so long as there is sufficient to pay one
quarterly premium. The Society is established throughout on
the Federal principle, and thus secures for its members the widest
scope for remunerative investment.
Chief Office for New South Wales : 105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY-
A., ROSS iIf TLZER t Secretary.


George Gordon M‘Crae, in The Arena,
sets down a memory of old-time Melbourne :
In those early times the gaol lay on the westernmost
edge of the town, somewhere, as I seem to recollect, close
to Batman’s Hill. The then new gaol (still standing, and
included within the walls of the gaol of to-day) was not
yet ready to receive prisoners. Nevertheless, in capital
cases, the execution was always carried into effect at “ the
new gaol on the hill ” ; possibly, as being the more public
and conspicuous place of the two. As the distance to be
traversed between the gaols was something considerable,
the condemned had to be conveyed by cart to the place of
axecution ; and, from being followed in the first instance
by a few boys and idle persons, the crowd would grow and
grow, and take form until it found itself a procession. I
remember once, while on a visit to my uncle, Mr. David
John Thomas, at his house in Bourke-st. West, opposite St.
James’s (there were no intervening buildings then), I was
roused one morning by someone, and rushed out of bed
on to the verandah, whence I witnessed one of these pro-
cessions. I afterwards came to compare this one with the
last picture in the Idle Apprentice series ; the progress to
Tyburn ; and, certainly, it was to the full, as sad, as
“ outrC,” and as replete with grim humour as anything
Hogarth ever committed to canvas. First, yes 1 I think
it was first, came the cart, with three men (bushrangers
all) seated on three coffins, a clergyman or priest in the
cart with them, book in hand. Immediately behind
walked Jack Ketch, with a great sack over his shoulder,
then a guard of soldiers ; next, the “ procession ” grow-
ing bigger and bigger as the cart creaked along slowly on
its way. Some hours later I witnessed the return of the
cart and guard, for the procession, apparently tired of
the show, had dispersed and melted away. Here we had
Mr. Ketch again, with his hag ; this time he was riding
in the cart, still smoking contentedly, and his bag (so I
was told) filled with the clothes and boots of his late
charges, which, if not actually bequeathed to him, were
in any case his lawful and traditional perquisites.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
The recently reported death of Henry
Ward Beecher’s brother recalls the unsavory
Ward Beecher-Tilton divorce case which stirred
up the States many years ago. Rutherford Hayes
and Sam Tilden were contesting the Presidential
election and unscrupulous supporters of Hayes
took advantange of the similarity of names to
confuse the electors as between Tilton and lilden.
The dodge worked, too, especially amongst the
backblock puritans. Hayes (about the weakest
president the TT.S. has had, but a most simple and
honorable man) was indignant at the deception,
and did all in his power to disillusionise the
electors. At the close of his presidency Hayes is
reported to have said “Well, they say I have not
been a success as president. I’m going back to my
chicken ranch, they can’t say I’m not a success at
that.” Then he dropped so completely out of
public sight that few of the present generation of
Americans know that ex-President ■ Hayes is
peacefully tending his flocks in the Ohio valley.
“Yang Anyut ” : A simple, cheap, and
exceedingly useful idea by way of celebrating the
beginnings of the Commonwealth would be the
adoption of a decimal coinage -say 10 pennies,
one federal; 10 federals, one florin ;10 florins, one
pound. And at the same time let us adopt the
decimal system all round, and do away with those
fearful tables of weights and measures in which
30J square yards or 272 J square feet make a pole,
and yards make a perch. It takes the average
small child about three months to learn these
brain-racking curiosities, where the tables on the
decimal system could be learned in a week.
Twelve weeks gone out of everybody’s life —
230,000 years wasted out of the lifetime of a
million people—by this antiquated British foolish-
ness.
FOUR YEARS ILL HEALTH,
Sleepless, Weary and Depressed.
RELIEF DESPAIRED OF.
But a “Friend in Need.”
The Case of
MRS. SUSAN BASTOCK.
(For the Star
Mi's Susan Bastock, who lives at No. 72
J&ay-street, Glebe, Sydney, welcomed the
Siewspaper man with much politeness, and
on the latter announoing that his visit was
ipaid with the object of eliciting the facts
Relating to that lady’s critical illness and her
tatraordinary recovery therefrom through
*3 administration of Clements Tonic, he
y/as soon seated in the front parlor, where
Mrs. Bastock readily assented to supply him
with every detail connected with her case.
“To look at me now you would hardly
think that I am the mother of a family of
thirteen children, and considering the great
deal of suffering which I have gone through
I ought to be—and indeed I am—very
thankful for my present good state of
health. The great physical strain of rearing
such a large family must have weakened my
system terribly, for it ultimately resulted in
my having a premature confinement, which
culminated in inflammation of the bowels.
It took a long time before I could get about
again, and for four years afterwards I never
possessed good health; and at the expiration
of that time I was visited with a sickness of
a more serious kind than my previous one.
It is considered an extremely interesting and
critical period of a woman’s existence, and
one which is fraught with important con-
sequences ; for, according as it is passed
with safety or otherwise will her future
health be. olt was at the period when my
change of life took place, and never shall I be
able to describe the pain which I had to en-
dure. Women usually regard the approach of
the change of life with a good deal of anxiety
and fear, for at that time certain diseases
which may have lain dormant, as it were,
in the system, are likely to make their
appearance, and I was in dread of any extra
derangement, because my constitution was
not strong enough to withstand it. lam
glad to say that I was not attacked by any
disease during my illness, but I had quite
enough to bear as it was, without any other
disorders taking place.”
“ Were your sufferings very acute, Mrs.
Bastock ? ”
“They were extremely so. The pains
were so bad that I could not bear anyone
to touch me. When anyone approached
very close to me I would give a spasmodic
flinch as though anticipating their touch.
Sleepless nights I passed without number,
and I was always weary and depressed. I
think there are very few women who have
gone through the same ordeal and have ex-
perienced such dreadful headaches as mine
were. My eyesight became affected, and I
could not see to read ; in fact, I did not have
much inclination for reading. I was too
much worried with my deplorable condition
to take any interest in books or papers.
Frequently, hot flushing of the face would
take place, and then I would be conscious of
a feeling that can only be described as ner-
vous irritation. It was quite a common
thing for me to faint, and I would lie and
think of all the evils that may occur if I did
not soon get better. My digestive organs
were quite upset, for although I lay for
fully a fortnight without touching anything
in the way of food excepting a little toast
and water, and even that light nourishment
was too much for my stomach to digest. I
was never free from pain of some sort, and
in a state of desperation I would sometimes
take a little brandy or whisky in the hope of
acquiring reliei But stimulants only aggra-
vated my suffering, and I always felt worse
after them I had got awfully thin, and my
face looked as though there was not a drop
of blood left in me. The intense mental
depression experienced during my sickness
was sometimes more than I like to think of
even now.”
“What did your doctor think of your
case ? ”
“I had three doctors, and I am sure they
all despaired of my ever pulling through it.
But they were not the only ones who thought
so. One day a lady friend, who had just
returned from the funeral of her sister, said
to me: ‘ Ah, old girl, you will be the next I
shall have to follow.’ It is not very en-
couraging to be spoken to like that when a
person feels half-dead. My medical advisers
were very attentive, I must say ; but their
medicines all failed to have a beneficial effect
upon me. Goodness knows how much I had
taken, but I still remained in the same sorry
plight. So low did I sink that I believed I
was drawing near the grave. My husband’s
belief in the restorative and curative qualities
of Clements Tonic had so often been drummed
in my ears that at last I consented to see
what it was like. I had lost faith in all
medicines, and when my husband brought
me a bottle of Clements Tonic I succeeded
in livening myself up with hope again, for I
slowly, but surely, began to mend under its
remarkable influence. The bodily pains
were quickly under control, my dreadful
headaches were soon completely cured, and
the newly-found remedy gave me a very
healthy appetite. I continued taking Cle-
ments Tonic regularly, as I was convinced
it was doing me a lot of good. My blood
was once again running through my veins
with increased vitality, and I could always
depend upon having a good night’s sleep.
With the departure of my severe headaches
I could sit down and enjoy a read, my
eyesight being completely repaired. The
feelings of depression departed with the
advent of new life, and as the time passed
on it was soon my pleasant privilege to
resume my customary duties. The doctors
were greatly astonished at my rapid recovery,
and so were all my friends. They could see
by the way I had brightened up, and the
way I was putting on. flesh, that Clements
Tonic was making a new woman of me. I
am nearly as active now as when I was a
young woman, and I am thoroughly healthy
in every respect. My children are always
given a dose of Clements Tonic whenever
they have anything the matter with them,
and lam under such an obligation to that
remedy for my new lease of life that I never
neglect to recommend it to my friends.”
“We will give publicity to your state-
ments with your permission.”
“ I hope you will do so, as others may be
cured in the same way. ”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Susan Bastock, o' 72 Bay street, Glebe, Sydmy,
in the Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios and con-
secutively numbered from one to four, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish in any wav my state-
ments—which I give voluntarily, without receiving
any payment; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and
by virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed
in the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “An Act for the more effectual abolition of
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Denartments of the Government of New South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and
for the suppression of voluntary and Extra-Judicial
Oaths and Affidavit*"
/7
Declared at Glebe, this 27th day of July, one
thousand nine hundred, before me,
THOMAS LAW, J.P.
Business Announcements,
H hhhhhhhhhh hhhhh hhhhhhhhh
c. a-.
H
HA.T'l'B’S H
Display of H
Summer Millinery H
Dress Fabrics
is the jj
• SHOW OF THE SEASON • PI
Spring &
and
IP
Ladies will find Platte’s Show Rooms a jj
palace of enchantment, surpassing any- jj
thing of the kind to be seen elsewhere, n
The Millinery is directly imported from jj
the best houses of Paris and London ; and jj
the Dress Fabrics have been most care- u
PI fully selected by Hatte’s home buyers pp
II from the leading manufacturers of u
II England, the Continent, and America. u
TT JJ
H IET HATTE’S TAILORING DEPARTMENT H
H has achieved deserved renown. The New H
H Season’s Goods are just opened, and are H
H most beautiful. H
H For ordinary wear, you can desire H
H nothing better than one of his
H TWO GUINEA SUITS to Measure g
XT (including extra pair of trousers). You jj
TT have a big range of materials for selec- g
tions ; the garments are admirably cut jj
and beautifully finished.
If you cannot pay a visit, write for
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms jj
(free); and your orders will be faithfully jj
and satisfactorily executed.
In every department you will save at jp
g least 30 per cent, by patronising
H C. Gr. HIATT E, H
H NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
H
HHHHHHHHHHHHH HHHH HHIIHHHHH
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND. ]
Soda. Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs.—The Machine purchased from you is per-
fect. The Stuff turned out is splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers. —Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says : —“ It is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says “ Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay the rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “ I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W..
says:—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says “Since getting one of
your Machines, and making my own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says“ Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says :—“Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:—“Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says : “ Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says: “Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
A GOOD QUALITY OF AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE THE PROFITS.
Call and see these Machines, or write for Circular describ-
ing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co.
407 COLLINS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. lutd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liability.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Directors: W. M‘Millan,Esq., Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0.,
Sydney; L. A. Jessop, Esq., Adelaide.
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W.
N. M'Farlane ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W.
Faßquhar ; Wellington, N.Z., O. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Real German Hollow Ground
Razor
ISP
h
ĥ
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO., LONDON. W.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
mDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Business Announcements
KODAK
PHOTOGRAPHY
is easy Pliofcogr,.phy. It is
mastered by anyone in a few
minutes, and no dark room is
required for changing films.
Kodaks from
ss. to £7 15s.
KODAK
Send fov Illustrated Price TAst, and
mention this Paper.
KODAK, Limited,
“THE BLOCK,”
284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at London, Paiis, Berli', Brussel l , Vienna,
St. Petersburg, Moscow, and Rochester, N.Y.
r GOUT v
PILLS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted witli conffiL nee, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that th y not only
cure these disorders, hut prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole 'Proprietors, Pkout & Co., 229 r
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
r-N-
I
USE
SPOONEK’S
SPOONERS
V m */
p, n . • • *■*« »*>#■•«»%*
(WTtNT LEATHER BOOTS
'glazed kvos a?
DtmrOi**** »»l
ftt.W .it.Aty tl>
•"*•**•»
H*«r* «ir» *"*»»•«■»*?»
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers ,.
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.


THE SIX PRE.M (ER E STAR LI S HMENTS
LON DON SYDNEY ME LB OUR NE
PERTH AUCKLAND WELLINGTON
THE: LEADING HOUSE.
nomiddlemen
WE SAVE YOU 25 TO 50 PERCENT
JK o. 201 a— Set Links, 9-carat
Gold, £1 Is; 15-carat Gold, £2;
Silver, 6s 6d.
Lacfy s Goat u set with
Pearls and Turquoise, IBg (Jd.
t>°' l i 6A —9-carat Gold and Fine Amethyst
Brooch, 18s 6d. Superior Design and Finish.
No. 193—Set Links, 9-
carat, 15s 6d; 15-carat,
£110s; Silver, 4s 6d.
No. E7478—9-carat Gold Chain, Bell and Leaf
Brooch, Us 3d.
No. 021—15-carat Gold and
Fine Opal Links, £4.
No. E7347.— 501id Silver Shaving Mug,
£4 10s, either Plain or Chased ; Best Silver*
plated, 18s 6d and £1 ss.
Out-Glass Toilet Box, Solid Silver Top. Small, 15s 6d
Medium, 21s ; Large, 255.
Very Massive Solid Silver Oake Basket, £l3 10s.
N °- 284 -Out-Glass Puff Box, with
Solid Silver Top, 3in. high, £1 Is.
Others, 9s 6d and 13s 6d.
No. 558.—Very Massive 15c. Gold Broo h, 9 Fine
White Diamonds, £8 10s. Special Value.
No. 150.—15 c. Gold Bracelet, i Diamond, 2 Rubies, £A 7s 6d.
No. 017. —9c. Gold and Fine Opal Brooch, £1 sa.
m
No. 139.—9 c. Gold Bracelet, Ruby Centre, £1 2s 6dL
No. P3739—Best Silver-plated and
Satin-lined Collar Stud Box
7s 6d.
Solid Silver Shaving Brushes, 11s 6d, 13s 6d, £1 is, £ll2s 6d.
No. 383 A.—Beautifully Chased Cake Basket, Finest Silver-
plate, on Nickel Silver, £2 10s. Others, £1 Is and £llos.
No. 371—Silver-plated Salts
Stand and Spoon, with Fancy
Glass, 3in. high, 5s 6d.
No. 873—Beautiful Silver-plated Toast
Rack, 6 divisions, 7in. long, 12s 0d
No 177.
Gold Keeper, 18c.,
£1 la.
:o. 208.—10 c. Gold
Heart, 10s 6d ;
f>c. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 178. Wedding
Ring, 18c. Gold,
£1 Is.
Heavy, £IIS S .
No. 193 A.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d ; 15c. Gold,
£1 ss. Silver, 3s 6d.
No. lt>9.
2 Diamonds, 3
Rubies, 18c. Gold,
£2 12s 6d.
No. 194 A.—Set Links,
ic. Gold, £1 5s ; 15c. £2 10a.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 163.
6 Fine White Dia-
monds, £5 6s ;
2 Diamonds, 3 Sap-
phires, £3 10s.
No. 215—Pearl and
Ruby Heart, 9a
Gold, 16s 6cL
No. 167.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubles,
18c. Gold, £2 6s.
sk
Silver-plated Frame 2-Cup,
€1 5s ; 4-Cup, £2 ; 6-Oup, £3 Ss.
No. E6Bsl—New Clasp, antique design, very
handsome, heavy make, Solid Silver, £l. (En-
graving drawn half size.) Others, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
13s 6d. Silver-plated, 4s 6d and ss.
No. KytiOl- Beautiful Silver-plated Bis
cuit Box, £llsa
No. E(849 A Charming- and
Novel Wedding Present. Silver-
plated Egg-Boiler for the Break-
fast-table, £1 6s.
No. 410—Handsome Clock, 7in. high,
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops,
and two Gilt and Leather Traces,
£1 7s 6d.
No. 103.—9 c. Gold Bar Brooch
10s 6d.
N°. 130.—15 c. Gold, Opal and Diamond Braoelet*
JNew and Handsome Design, £l2 10s.
No. 016.—16c. Gold and Finest Opal Heart
Brooch, £3.
No. 137.—9 c. Gold Bracelet, set Sapphires and Pearls £3
Others at £2, £2 6s, £2 10s, £2 16s.
’
No. 319 r i ver Hu Hon TToolss and Shoe
10s 6d ; smaller size, 11s 6d.
ħ
No, , — Morocco Case, containing'
Solid Silver Shell- 1’attern Butter-Dish
and Knife, £1 5s
No. 268 a Set of Solid Silver Manicure Instruments—Nail File
Scissors and Cuticle Knife, in Case, 17s 6d
Others, 14s 6d to £6 10s.
Any of the Articles Illustrnted above will be sent
Free and Safe by Post on receipt of Remittance.
Write f' r our Illustrated Catalogue. Sent Post Free.
412 6?orge St. * Strand, SYDNEY.


Writes an ex-private of Q.M.1., now in
S’African police :
I don’t think that many will stop at this job—too much
“ red-tape,” and not much chance for anyone without a
lot of influence; as, by the way things are going, this is
evidently to be a dumping-ground for the English ne er-
do-well. ;
RESTORES HEALTH TO THE LIVER.
EXACT SIZE
OFJHE.BO.TItE
*—*
KUTNOW’S i
iproved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap
London:
41, FARRtNGDON ROAD, EX.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK. .
EXACT SIZE
OFTHEBOTTLE
KUTNOW’S POWDER dispels the Low Spirits, Languor,
Biliousness, Nausea, Nervousness, Headache, and
Insomnia that arise from a Disordered Liver by
removing the cause.
A disordered and torpid liver is caused by carelessness in eating and drinking. The liver being the
largest and one of the most important and hard-worked organs of the body, one must expect to suffer a good deal
of misery when it becomes deranged. \Y hen the liver is not in a clean, active condition the entire system is dis-
ordered, and a score of distressing symptoms, such as lassitude, nausea, nervousness, low spirits, biliousness, and
insomnia, naturally follow. If the liver is allowed to remain in a deranged condition long, jaundice, which fre-
quently results in the formation of gall-stones, is likely to occur, and even more serious symptoms.
Most people have not the ability or inclination to discontinue the carelessness in the matter of food and
drink which causes the liver to become disordered, and in this case it is better to remedy the evil consequences.
Prevention is better than cure, but cure is better than permanent ill-health or death.
Nothing will be found more effective in restoring health, strength, and activity to a disordered liver than
the use of Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder. There are a hundred preparations for remedying
liver disorders, but none is more reliable, safe, and pleasant, and none has received such strong medical
endorsement.
Kutnow’s Powder is composed of the same purifying, healing, and medical properties that attract
thousands of sufferers from liver, stomach, and kidney disorders to the famous mineral springs of Europe. It is
made by dessicating the salts of the most noted of these springs, and adding Effervescence and a few health-
giving ingredients. Kutnow’s Powder strengthens, cleanses, and stimulates the liver, just as do the waters of
the springs. It washes out the impurities that impede the liver’s action, and expels them from the system. At
the same time Kutnow’s Powder has none of the nauseous, drastic, and lowering properties of the mineral
waters.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained in capsuled bottles of all Chemists and Medicine Vendors . See that
the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Beer Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature, “S.
KUTJSOW & CO., Ldare on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness. Insist on “KUTNOW’S,”
and firmly refuse any substitutes; they are worthless.
PROPRIETORS
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A —>
KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New York City.
The Maxims of Billy Pagan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you’re shovelling sand, be thorough—Glory lies
in degree;
Be the Greatest and Lordliest Dustman or the
Highest Berg at Sea.
When poverty comes, although used to cake be
content with a crumpet;
And thankfully take to the drum in the band
where you once were the trumpet.
Do well or do ill, but do something—rather than
rust and rot;
Sickness comes not to the busy—nor flies to the
boiling pot.
Lay out the work of to-morrow before you go to
your bed;
Only begin the weaving, and- the world will find
the thread.
When thou art joyed be drunken ! Art sad ? take
a horsedrench and pill;
But the man who drowns his sorrow is piling ill on
ill.
Walk out sober to love, and walk far after thy
supper,
Lest to-morrow bring Sin in the saddle while Re-
pentance sits on the crupper.
Deride not the manners of men—nor laugh if a
friend should stutter;
Flatter his accent —so shall ye win to rivers of
honey and butter.
Lend not except to the rich —not then till his
riches be proven;
And give a piece of your cake to a man who has
pies in the oven.
Hurt not a worm without cause ; slay not even a
draper—
Unless he leave the department of sox, and write
for a paper.
Go not by rule or by rote—let expedience be the
token ;
For horses and cakes and laws were only made to
be broken.
Waste not thy time with the mother when thy
heart is drawn to the daughter;
Be not the foolish pack-horse, carrying wine and
drinking water.
Know thine own faults—as .a friend; there let the
news be done;
And claim thou art almost perfect—are there not
spots on the sun ?
Be not vainglorious in boom-time—you’ll appear
the worse in the slump;
The higher the monkey climbeth the more doth
he show his rump.
Show not your teeth if you cannot bite : to your
enemy turn not south;
And if no money you have in your purse, honey
must be in your mouth. .
Give the public what it asks for—gamble on sure
three per cent. —
Sell bicycle suits at Christmas, and turn fish-
monger in Lent.
Give them dirt if they call for dirt, each as his wit
supposes;
For the public is often a pig, and pigs love filth
more than roses.
If silent fools do blame thee because thy speech is
young,
Talk on to their woe, for a brain is worth little
without a tongue.
To him who can take all thou hast, give that he
asks for straight,
And strike with a golden hammer when thou
com’st to an iron gate.
Worse pigs than thou in the litter get the best
pears—what of that ?
If thy father hatli given thee a head, thy head
will soon get thee a hat.
Be friends with a rogue in office hours—but after
be not beguiled ;
The sun passes over the garbage, and yet is not
defiled.
If you must do a good deed, cover it up in a
flurry;
But wait time and place for revenge—that’s never
well done in a hurry.
Change your heart for a gizzard—so shall you live
at ease ;
Back no bills for your friends—and sleep soundly,
forgetting the fleas.
Bite on occasion so that men fear and know how
to treat you ;
Be a dove, and the sky will be dark with the
hawks that come to eat you.
If you can feel no shame, the earth’s yours—sky,
sea and clover ;
And, shame or no shame, legs and a tongue will
take you the wide world over.
Go softly and you go safely—go safely and you go
far ;
But when occasion arises—strut, so that your head
hits a star.
Make your price double your wants, so you may
lower a tittle ;
He who wants a great deal must never ask for a
little.
Pray to your God to guard you from those in whom
you trust;
From those you mistrust you can guard yourself,
and bring them, down to the dust.
Employ a teetotal clerk—wine’s a foe to clear
amounts;
But make a daily audit of that teetotal clerk’s
accounts.
Get all you want, and more—no law the greedy
breaks;
This is a world that gives a man just as much as
he takes.
Let not the world get above thee —he is its slave
who prizes it;
Keep the world for thy servant—he is its king
who despises it.
Do, or undo, or pretend—but at one of these never
be ending ;
For these are the wings of the world —doing, un-
doing, pretending.
If ill-luck come to thee, sleep—and make thy
patience quadruple;
For ill-luck comes by the ton, and goeth away by
the scruple.
Be not content with thy strength, but harden
thyself with guile;
For age will find joints in thine armor for Time’s
inaudible file.
Make thy sins fit thy credit —and woe if they be
worse;
For little thieves are hanged by the neck—great
thieves are hanged by the purse.
Enjoy thy money while yet thou hast seeing eyes
in thy sockets;
Clothe thyself bravely ere ever thou wearest the
last shirt —made without pockets.
In a venture be ready for all—the high roads, or
the treacherous bogs;
And in a strange street carry handsful of meat
(or of stones) for the dogs.
And ever be merry-hearted though dolorous be
the days;
If your house catch fire in the winter, laugh, and
warm yourself at the blaze.
And follow these maxims of Pagan, and if you
follow them straight
You’ll die Councillor William Gutswalk, or the
gallows will be your fate.
And whether the gallows or Gutswalk —and the
diffrence is mostly fudge ;
Die laughing—you waste your tears when you
weep before the judge.
V.
RANDORIAN BEDFORD.
Parson King’s Happy Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Parson King was a Maoriland minister, and
catered for one of those small communities where
the people go to sleep at eight o’clock and are not
rightly awake at other times. He was a small-
headed, broad-shouldered man with the reddish-
ness of hair that goes with an energetic disposi-
tion. His father had been a saw-miller in the
district, and Jim had filially desired to follow in
his footsteps ; but a little legacy had determined
the enterprising parent to put Jimmy into the
“ meenistrv.” And now Jim recognised that only
what had got him in could get him out, and
prayed for the root of all evil accordingly.
His other petitions were of a similarly secular
nature. The hereditary instinct to chop was
strong in him, and when sent for to administer
consolation to the sick he thanked heaven when
the family was poor, because then he could cut short
his ghostly comfortings on the plea of devoting
some of his time to giving practical assist-
ance in the backyard. . Other household jobs
were appreciated in a less degree; a broken window
was easier to mend than a shattered and contrite
spirit, and he was happier studying the inside of
a parishioner’s clock than investigating the work-
ings of his soul.
When he had been about three vears in the
ministry he became engaged, conditionally, to a
settler’s daughter who wasn’t going to marry a
minister on any account. Whereupon King’s
desire to get away from beneath his halo became
frantic.
King conducted service in different decrees of
irritability. He snapped at the hymns viciously
and barked out the sermon, which consisted
merely of some biblical story told at . m) fP l
greater length and a great deal worse than in the
Bible; His best girl used to sit in the middle ot
the church and watch him with a fine, cold smile,
and when they met outside would cheer him up
by telling him hard truths about his elocution.
When lie had been told this about 20 times the
Parson decided to expend a certain small per-
centage of his clerical stipend in lattersalls
tickets, in the hope that a big prize would call
him away from his clerical duties. With about bIOU
he could leave the ministry and start a business
where he might chop wood all day long without
being disturbed by any irrelevant details about
religion.
Owing to the fact that Parson King’s best girl s
father objected to the engagement, she did not
meet her “boy” as often as both could- have
wished, but she always knew the state of affairs
by his demeanour as he entered the pulpit. Three
weeks or so before the announcement of the
winning number he would begin to. announce
hymns of an increasingly hopeful kind, and to
preach from texts of a bright and soul-lifting
order. On the Sunday before the announcement
of the result lie was always specially fervent, fre-
quently holding an extra weekly service. Ihe
Sunday following, however, when news of his
failure reached him, he would express his resent-
ment by curtailing his sermon one-third of
its usual length and delivering it in
his dog - voice, while the hymn with which
he began operations was invariably “Plunged
in a Gulf of Dark Despair.” There were plenty
of other melancholy hymns, but “ Plunged was
always reserved for this great occasion, as embody-
ing the only series of remarks that could adequately
express his feelings.
It was a bright Spring morning when the future
but long-postponed Mrs. King entered her “ boy s
church as usual. As she took her seat, she sud-
denly recollected that this was one of these Black
Sundays, and she knew that, as on this occasion,
King had invested in an extra ticket, his disap-
pointment would be proportionately greater. She
gazed across the haylike heads of several tillers of
the soil to catch a glimpse of her beloved wood-
chopper. She wanted to comfort him to assure
him, in her gentle, womanly way, that, if she
could not marry him, she would never take any
other man —unless, of course, the other man hap-
pened to have £3OO a-year. In Maoriland, no girl
is expected to refuse £3OO a-year.
Her eyes, however, only saw the crown of his
well-covered red head as he stooped over the
volume before him. She lifted up her hymn-book
and turned automatically to “Plunged. She
was clearing her throat automatically for
“ Plunged,” when suddenly, like an electric shock,
there rang a clear, joyous voice throughout the
sacred building, “Brethren, we will praise the
Lord by singing hymn No. 222, “ Oh, happy
day that fixed my choice.” After which we will
discourse from the text 11 And she gave to the
King 150 talents of gold.”
CONSTANCE CLYDE.


People Who Work!
h
Take out of the world the
people who work and there
wouldn’t be enough left to
make a respectable commun-
ity.
The working people are the
bone and sinew of the human
race.
Hard work makes bad
backs, give the kidneys too
much to do and backache is the first note of
warning, followed by urinary trouble if not
relie v ed.
A Sydney Man,
Mr. James Hudson, 10 Lennox-street, Newtown, this city, says: “I work in the Bondi sewer.
There is a constant drip, drip there ; and when working it mostly happens that one is wet through.
Some parts are better than others ; but while working in the shafts one is continu <llv damp, and this
affected my health. My trouble came with a bad cold in my kidneys, which caused terrible pains in
the back. I did my work, but it was most fearful torture for me to do so, as you can well understand.
I was exceedingly bad with these pains, when I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills advertised, and it
struck me by the name of the remedy that it should be good for my complaint. I procured a box at
Newman’s Pharmacy, in King-street, and they cured me in a fairly quick time. I could not take
them constantly, being afraid to use them while working in the wet sewers ; but I managed to take
two doses a week. The nature of my work causes me to have slight returns of the pain ; but 1 take a
dose of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, which never fails to cure me. lam never without them in the
house.”
The household duties which
devolve on most women tax the
Kidneys. Stooping positions,
straining the back, and the cares
of the home will in time affect
the most healthy of womankind.
Every woman will find quick
relief and permanent cure in
the use of
M
M
a
Qian's QackacSie Kidney pills.
They act on the Kidneys only, and never
fail to relieve the aching hack and cure every
form of urinary disorders.
A Sydney Woman.
Mrs. Wright, 6 Red Lion Street, Balmain, this city, says:—“About twelve months ago I used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, which I procured at Newman’s Pharmacy, to see whether they .would
cure a cold which had settled in my kidneys. The pain in my back was Very bad indeed, so bad that
it caused me very much inconvenience as well as pain. You see it was in such a place that it affected
the whole of my system. Less than one box of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me. In fact, a
few doses rid me of ah pain, but I took a dose now and again to make sure that that terrible pain
would never return. They are first-class pills, and I hope that anybody who is having such an experi-
ence as I had will lose no time in getting this extremely valuable remedy.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are for sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at
2s. 9d. per box, or six boxes for 15s. 3d. ; or same will be forwarded on receipt of price by the pro-
prietors, Foster McClellan Co., 7<i Pitt-street, Sydney.
Eczema.
Ever have any irritation of the skin ? There are
many forms of it, any of them bad enough to tax
your patience. Hemorrhoid, a plague of the
night; no rest for the sufferer from this complaint.
Eczema, too; hives don’t sound dangerous, but
they cause much misery to those unfortunate
enough to be troubled with them. Doan’s Oint-
ment is “a wonder” for any such trouble. No
troublesome irritation of the skin can resist its
healing, soothing influence. We know it, and lots
of Sydney people know it now.
A nurse, residing at 428 .Tones-street, Ultimo,
states: “I have been a sufferer from itchiness of
the skin for some time. I did not know the cause
of it, but it irritated me very much indeed. I
have cured many skin complaints for other people,
but I could not get anything that was good for my
own ailment until I used Doan’s Ointment, which
I procured one day when visiting Newman’s Phar-
macy in King-street T think I must have used
almost everything for such troubles, but Doan’s
Ointment is best of all. It cured the itchiness
which I suffered from entirely and almost imme-
diately.”
The lady gave us these facts twelve months ago,
and now she speaks further upon the subject: “ A
year ago I gave you a testimonial regarding the
medicinal properties of Doan’s Ointment. I have
used this Ointment for various purposes since, and
noticed its splendid curative powers, and must
acknowledge that it is the finest remedy for skin
diseases 1 have ever come across. It seems to cure
permanently in every case, and its quick effects
are simply marvellous.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all Diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Insect Bites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe ai d very effec-
tive.
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, by sending us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles
or Eczema for one moment. Doan’s Ointment
will cure them absolutely, but do not take our
word for it; send a penny stamp for a sample box.
The large size box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes 15s. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally
from your chemist or storekeeper, same will be
posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention The
Bulletin.
Drought.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
These are the realms of Hell. The barren blue
Glows like a furnace o’er the barren land ;
And there are shrivelled heaps whose bones gleam
through
The black and grey decay on either hand.
The stagnant pool shines green against the sun;
Drowning in shallows, massed upon the brink,
Strewn on the slopes, they sank down, one by one,
And suv Fate mock them as they stooped to
drink.
Over grim stepping-stones that fail beneath
His feeble hoofs—a thing of hide and bone,
With lolling tongue parched by the drought-
wind’s breath, —
The last gaunt bullock lurches on alone
Down the. dark road of Death. His white-shot
eye
Rolls in his head ; he turns, and sinks upon
The gripping mud that sucks him down to die—
And of ten thousand head the last has gone !
Thou furnace-breath of desolation, blow !
Thou Sun, burn ruin from thy skies of brass !
The land is bare, and bare of Hope men go :
God in his Heaven is silent as they pass.
V.
GEO. ESSEX EVANS.
The Return of Jack Scuttle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was frightfully hot. The commercials in the
smoking-room relinquished the eternal “euchre,”
and sprawled, thirsty and ill-tempered, on the
lounges. From the engine-rooms the heat-waves
rose like a blast from Avernus, and the perspira-
tion rolled in a steady cascade from the chief-
officer’s brow. Only under the awning on the
poop there was some approach to a cool breeze,
and the ladies in the deck-chairs fanned them-
selves vigorously, and were even silent.
“This is very different from what I had imagined
of the South Seas,” murmured a dark-haired girl
with poetical black eyes.
The man who was tramping up and down the
deck in front of the row of chairs laughed.
“ Things are mostly different from what you read
of,” he remarked, without invitation. “There’s
precious little of the sunny isles of Eden business
in these latitudes.”
The ladies regarded him with languid interest.
He was brown-faced and big-chested, and, though
an interloper, he looked as if he might prove
interesting.
“ Do you know much about these—these lati-
tudes ?” asked the dark-eyed girl.
The man laughed rudely, and leaning with his
back against the poop-rails spoke inconsequently.
“ I had a pal once,” he said, “ who knew more
about ’em than anyone living. His name was
Jack Scuttle, and he’s gone home now.”
“Oh !” cried the ladies with disappointment.
“Most people do that,” said the dark-eyed girl.
“Not the way he went, though,” chuckled the
man. “ For why ! He was eaten.”
He paused to enjoy the manifestations of sur-
prise at this adventure of his friend, and as it died
down in ejaculations of “How horrid!” “Poor
wretch ! ” “ What fearful creatures !” he plunged
into his yarn.
“ Jack Scuttle and me were at school together,
apprentices together, mates, first and second,
together, and when he married Polly Crowley,
whose father was a ship-chandler, I was his best
man. A sweet little woman was Polly; tender
and lovin’-hearted as any man could wish for a
wife. So when Jack sailed —two weeks after
their wedding—in the barque Belladonna, bound
for the South Seas, I thought her heart ’ud break,
she toolc-on so. ‘ Suppose them beastly cannibals
should eat ’im, Bill,’ she said to me, and 1 laughed,
little thinking that her ‘ suppose ’ was pretty near
to the mark. At anyrate they wrote long letters
whenever they could —but fortunately the post
don’t carry everything a young couple would like
to send. No offence, ladies; none meant, none
taken—but you know!
“However, month after month passed, and one
day along comes a big official-looking letter from
the captain of the Belladona to say that Jack
had been taken and eaten by some cannibals in
the Sandwich Islands.
“At first Polly would only believe they were
pulling her leg, an’ she says, quite skittish-like, ‘ A
poor sandwich my Jack ’ud make;’ so she ups and
puts on her bonnet and down she runs to the
shipping-office.
“ ‘ Now just you tell the truth, young man ’ she
says to the clerk there; ‘ what have you done with
my Jack ? ’
“The clerk looks very serious, and he puts his
pen behind his ear and folds his hands on the desk
like a Judge going to hang a ‘crook ’un,’ and he
says :
“‘He’s been eaten, ma’am—positively eaten.
There’s no doubt about it; I have here the report
of the ’ole case from the captain of the Bella-
donna, an’ sad news it is, too.’
‘•‘Polly gives a shriek, an’ down she flops,
faintin’ on the floor. An’ you can imagine her
feelin’, ladies; only married a few weeks—a bee,
fresh on honey—no time to get tired of ’im; an’
she was that sort who don’t leave a hold once
they’ve got a good bite —like a little dog I had
once—though ttiat’s neither here nor there.
“Also, you must remember that Polly was the
best of good Catholics, an’ here she was in a nice
pickle. No tomb for poor Jack, where she could
pray for him an’ have masses said. No place to
hang flowers and light candles on. It was simply
shockin’ to so pious a little woman.
“When she comes to —the clerk undoin’ her
dress havin’ soon fetched her round—she begins
questionin’ them.
“ ‘ How did it happen ? ’ says she.
“ ‘ It was this way, ma’am,’ says the clerk.
‘ The crew of the Belladonna were watering at a
certain island, when the cannibals swooped down
and collared your Jack before he could reach his
boat. They took him to their camp inland, an’
there they cooked an’ ate ’im.’
“ ‘ How do you know this, if no one but these
cannibal devils was there ?’ asks widow Polly, for
she was always a sharp ’un.
“ ‘ Well, ma’am, it was like this. Cap-
tain Howard of the Belladonna landed some
of his men on the island, marched up to the
niggers’ camp, killed most of ’em, and took
their chief prisoner. This chief, whose name was
Fekai, confessed to ’em that, Jack being an officer,
etiquette ordered him to be served as a chief’s
supper. So Fekai himself ate Jack piecemeal.’
“ ‘ What! screamed the widow.’ ‘D’ you mean
to say this Fekai has got my Jack in his dirty
black stomach ? ’
“ The clerk coughed behind his hand, and said
he supposed so. The widow thought for a while,
then she says all of a flash, ‘ What became of this
Fekai ?’
“‘Well, ma’am, it appears from Captain
Howard's report that the nigger did a bolt, and
managed to reach a plantation in Tahiti, where he
is now a slave—l mean to say, a bound-labourer.’
“ ‘ Give me his name,’ she cried, excitedly.
“And when she got it off she goes home and
writes straight to that planter.
“‘Send me this nigger f.o.b. Sydney, and I’ll
pay all freights, and give you twenty-five pounds.’
“Due to time comes the nigger, an’ the widow
meets him at the wharf and takes him home.
“‘Now, then,’says she to him, ‘I your mis-
tress —you do all I tell you.’
“ ‘Io, ma’am,’ says the nigger.
“ ‘You eat white man—officer.’
“ ‘lo—he broody nice, me eat he three days.’
“ ‘So he in there,’ says Polly, and bangs Fekai
on the waist-band.
“ ‘ lo—he mostly there.’
“ ‘You lie down flat,’ orders Polly, and when
he lays down, bless me if she didn’t kneel on his
stomach and begin praying, for she had got it in
her head that Fekai was nothing more nor less
than her poor Jack’s tomb.
“Then she had a nice brass plate made, and
hung it on her walking grave, with this inscrip-
tion :
“ Here lies entombed Jack Scuttle,
Devoured in his 25th year.
Mourned by his loving, faithful wife.”
Not satisfied with that, I’m blowed if she didn’t
hang flowers round the beastly nigger’s neck, and
lead him up and down the street with a chain to
church, where she used to stand him up in a side-
aisle and light something like 42 tapers round his
feet, which caused such a hullaballoo that the
police had to interfere. It couldn’t last long. The
neighbors talked awful scandal about her, and
completely took the dear girl’s character away;
and so, remembering that no man in British
dominions ought to be a slave, I unchained the
blasted nigger one day and kicked him out into
the street, and he was never seen again.
“Polly nearly went dotty over this, and she
advertised all over the country: ‘ Lost, a tomb,
answering to the name of Fekai.’ ”
“What became of the widow ? ” asked the dark-
eyed girl, with intense eagerness.
“Lunatic asylum, ma’am —lunatic asylum,”
said the man ; and, sticking his hands into his
pockets, he strolled away down the deck.
The dark-eyed girl looked enquiringly at the
other ladies. “It was very interesting,” she said,
with a sigh, “but Ido hope the man’s not telling
the truth.”
And she looked sadly at a distant island.
M.L.
EDGAR M. DELL
Patriotism.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[“ Patriotism,” -says an amiable French cynic, “ is the
feeling that induces a man to lie about his country.”]
A crowd of fervid Jingoes (Australian) stood gaz-
ing at the illustrated prints in the window of a
bookshop. Attention was directed particularly
to an English weekly called Under the Union
Jack. The front page was decorated with a pic-
ture entitled “Shooting of John M‘Lachlan at
Harrismith by the Boers, for refusing to fight in
the ranks of an Orange River Free State com-
mando.” Indignation was freely expressed among
the little crowd ; the illustration appealed forcibly
to their excited imaginations. M‘Lachlan was
pourtrayed as springing into the air in his death-
agony, pierced by the bullets of a number of dis-
reputable-looking bearded Boers a few paces in
front. A little grizzly man among the crowd at
the window seemed particularly moved, and gave
vent to his feelings every now and again by ejacu-
lating ferociously : “ Them blanky Boers ! ”
“ But,” remonstrated a quiet-looking citizen at
his side, “ the story isn’t true. Mr. Chamberlain
expressly stated in the House of Commons that
there was not the least foundation for the story.”
“But there’s the picture!” said the patriot,
angrily.
“ It’s untrue, all the same,” said the unpatriotic
spectator.
“Oh, well, if they didn’t do it, they would ha ’
done it if they could.” Again ferociously : “ Them
blanky Boers ! ”
Corollary to the Frenchman’s proposition :
“ Patriotism is the feeling that induces a man to
believe lies about another man’s country.”
L.
“ C.F.” to The Bulletin re Chinese
coin:—
You are not quite accurate in reply to “ E.O.’ (25/8/’00)
re Chinese coin. The standard unit of weight and cur-
rency is the tael or oz. of silver, equal to l£oz. avoirdu-
pois. No such coin as a tael exists. A shoe or sycee, so
called from a fanciful resemblance to the cramped foot of
a Chinawoman, varies from 70 taels down. Till recently
there was no coin but the “ cash,” but now 5, 10, 20 and
25 cent pieces are coined. The decimal system obtains in
China :10li or cash = 1 fan or candarin ;10 fan =l tain
or mace ; 10 tsin— l leuruj or tael. Heavier goods are
weighed by the kati=lj English pounds, and 100 kati =
1 pikul. A tael is worth ljdol. (Mexican), or at present
rates 2s. Bd. to 2s. lOd. European retail accounts are
kept in Mexican dollars—though Jap. yen and British
(Bombay coined) silver of equivalent value have almost
supplanted the Mexican coins ; but bankers and mer-
chants keep accounts in taels.
Concerning a lucky find :
W. Dunstan, a well-known Melbourne contractor, when
demolishing an old building on the premises of the Bank
of Australasia some time ago, struck a patch in the shape
of a soz. slug of melted gold, and after panning off a few
tons of rubbish bagged £350 worth of gold-dust. The
premises had once been the bank’s boiling-down establish-
ment, Fine gold is as insidious as quicksilver, and so the
ground under the floors had been converted into very
profitable wash during the good old early days when
“the dust” was planked down and shuffled about
as recklessly as if it had been bran. After this
scoop the lucky contractor kept his eye open for
other likely shows, and has just struck a second. He is
now rooting on the site of the old Port Phillip smelting-
works in Collins-st., above Russell-st., on the south side
—having undertaken the contract to remove the buildings
off the site—and is getting better prospects than any
panged out at Mt. William. Present writer, as a small
boy, struck it lucky like this on the site of the office of an
abandoned alluvial mine outside Ballarat, but had his
claim jumped by two adults just as affluence was staring
him in the face. Re the above, it may be
remembered that a deluded Dutchman was dis-
covered to have sunk a shaft on the Collins-
street premises mentioned in quest of fabulous
masses of virgin gold, which, he was convinced, invited
him somewhere down under. Traces of gold in the sur-
face dirt started him on his wild downward career. No-
body recollected the old smelting works when this pros-
pector’s story got into the papers, and although he was a
“mug” miner, he narrowly missed a good thing after
all.


Gives Muscular Strength
and Nerve Power
Takes Out Every Imparity from the Blood, Makes the Blood Rich and
Red, Removes Depression, Imparts Vigor and New Life.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
ft
“"■T ;
w
'S'
Mr. Tliomas Monroe, of Oriel, Albion, near Brisbane, Queensland, is well
known in football and athletic circles. He has to keep his system in perfect
condition all the time. Bead what he says about Dr. Ayer’s Family Medicines.
“ I have used Dr. Ayer's Sarsaparilla to restore the appetite and give tone and strength to
the whole system, and I have been greatly benefited by doing so.
“ I have also obtained marked relief from the asthma by the use of Dr. Ayer s Cherry Pec-
toral. These two remedies are well known throughout Queensland as thoroughly reliable
famiiy medicines.”
So great is the reputation of Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a remedy for healing
the sick that it is called everywhere
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
If you are sick, you certainly should give Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a thorough
trial. It cannot fail to help you, for it cures the blood first of all. Then your
nerves become steady and strong and the hot weather of summer does not affect
you. All depression is overcome. Remember, it is a wonderful medicine for
' the children, too, when they are thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your
confidence in it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
Wf
m.
AVERTS
n
a
r 1 11 a
SEN
ĥ
m
PHH'VMB
* e
Sen-Sen &
fARRINGDONAVIEF
LONDON.
■re
h
m
ĥ
n
ħ
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMOTST SENSE.
Bv Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, Can afford to dispense with the iraformation em-
braced in its covers. ~, .
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Si'Eßchks and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody : public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
On. Cauvrr's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post, ts 3d.
Beauty's Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist; post free Is. The
Art oe Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette—-Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, In.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 2k 6d.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book ok Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d. I
How to Dance, new work, is posted. j
Secrets of Ancient and Modern M»aio- Is Sd post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 3d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman's Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is 6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderfol Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs.
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR Xishes here to notify hie Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTEL ZESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still, obtainable as before/ Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar Hundreds of SPECIAL Books-most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
Cure Bilious and Nervous Disorders,
Constipation, Sick Headache,
Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
And all Stomachic Troubles.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Remove Wind and Pains in the Stomach,
Arouse Sluggish and Torpid Livers,
Ensure Proper Assimilation of Eood,
Strengthen the Stomach.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Make You Look Well, Peel Well, and Keep Well,
Remove Pimples and Blotches on the Skin,
Lay the Foundation of Good Health,
Suitable for Old and Young.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Purify the Blood and Remove Scurvy,
Are Mild but Effective in their Action,
Remove the Result of Over-Indulgence,
Cure Restlessness and Insomnia.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Are Specially Suitable for the
Diseases and Ailments common to Females,
Improve the Complexion,
Increase in Popularity.
ieecham’s Pills have stood the test of over 50 years
without the publication of testimonials. They recom-
mend themselves. In Boxes, is. IJd. (56 Pills and 2s. 9d. each, with full directions.
“ STEELE RUDD’S " BOOK -
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
Price, Six Shillings (Post Free).
MAORI LAND : aijd Other Verses.
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Best Book of Verses Maoriland has produced. Price, Pive Shillings (post free).
“THE BULLETIN”' NEWSPAPER 00., LTD., 214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Wholesale Agents •; Edwards, Dunlop, Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane. '
h
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cur©
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
medicine for Infants,
Cnilaren, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pres nancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
A
Sold Throughout the World.
N.B-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
bonnington’s
IRISH MOSS
WiLLCURE,
That kacking Cough.
That troublesome Cold.
That annoying Influenza.
Whooping Co ugh, and
Allchest affections.
T BUY IMITATIONS.


PERDRIAU
1 FOOT, 4d.
5 FEET, Is Bd.
10 FEET, 3s 4d.
15 FEET, 6s.
& CO.,
RUBBER CURDED HOSE
270 George-st.,
20 FEET, 6s Bd.
30 FEET, 10s.
40 FEET, 13s 4d
00 FEET, 20s.
AHNdAS
THE WORTHINGTON
....IS THE ORIGINAL. ..
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
Sole Australasian Representatives :
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34
TANCYES’
DUPLEX
PUMPS
Are the Latest and Best.
Sole Representatives in Australia:
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED
Bennie, feare & (Jo.
Mining and Engineering
Furnishers .
STOCKS CARRIED IN~^*
sypNey
MELBOURNE
PERTH “*
COOL6ARDIE.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
An . . , '
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
*W- O- EHLDBIDG-E &a 00.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOICR STltKia’, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’
George and |Jj |VT ET I
Market-Sts. » ■ ■ mm Lm
Board or Apartments at Option.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
O UNTIES THOUSAND PEOPLE . . . .
died from Consumption in Sydney last year, and this dire disease is spreading day by day. And no wonder. If citizens are so careless about their supply of Milk, the wonder is that there
are not more deaths. There will be ! !
EESRE’S JV SHOKT STORY. *
A milk supplier to Sydney bad three cows suffering from Tuberculosis, and as he was'afraid his healthy cattle would become contaminated, he sold them at less than £1 each to another
supplier who sent his milk to the same distributors. The seller now feels annoyed to think that the Sydney purchaser had been paying for all the milk from the diseased animals for some
months past. THIS MILK IS BEING- SOLD IN SYDNEY TO-DAY ! This is no fairy tale, but .an absolute fact, capable of being easily proven. This is only an individual ease;
there are many, alas! too many of a similar nature. 9
nSTSPBCTIOKT OB DAIRIES AIXUO cattle
The N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Coy., Ltd., have every cow in every dairy thoroughly inspected, as wefl as the premises and utensils used. They have their own railway trucks. All milk
arriving under standard quality is condemned. They laugh at local inspection. They lose suppliers because of their strict methods of inspection.
The Company sells milk in bulk or in bottle that is PASTEURISED. If delicate people use other milk, they may meet a premature death. Use only the milk supplied by the
F.F. &I. Coy., and they will get healthy and strong. Strong robust people will grow the stronger. If, after this NOTE OF WARNING}, you continue to use milk from cows suffering
from Tuberculosis —or, in plain words, Consumption—you deserve to die, for the fault rests with yourself.
The F.F. and I. Coy., Ltd., is the only Company who has an Inspector in its regular employ* If you want to rear a healthy family, deal ONLY with us ; but if you want to rear
weaklings, or be weak, then Don’t.
HARBOUR STREET,
N.
' '
l
H. Pateson,
Manager.
COMPRESSORS.
ĥ
Ingerso 12-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain the
doing the most work at the least Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
hold the highest
fair competition
ir reputation for
“ New Inerersoll.”
h
ĥ
&
c°.
Sss
srsrii
WEY,
k
-W.
mfflm
; s
Blake Steam Pumps
“DUPLEX”
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Soil© Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN * SONS L
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
.5 1 J . * . *
SPE'
——
fALTIES;
to
. z
<f> <
OE
XUi
uj
3Gi
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF
BLACKING.
TOMATO SAUCE.
ag or Square).
FLOUR.
CRYSTALS.
■ . ;,i > , -:v ■;>. ''v,'.
-
OFFICE
IV > >
in
m
WYNY
■ ■
VASE,
SYDNEY.
ħ
ETC.,
LOW PRICES.
ENGLISH, FRENCH,
GERMAN.
Largest ratal, with Model, nice.
v 25 miniat. 3 Sh.
APPY <sc CO.,
65 Rue Pigalle,
PARIS, FRANCE.
YORK HOTEL,
ADELAIDE.
| B. B. ROENNFELDT.
