

dfg
WHISKY.
KeicTs London Draught Stout.
USE
9
ALTED COCOA
<3-XJ^.s : l.A.3Sri-E3E313 COCOA -A.3XT33 EXTRACT MALT.
ES. O. WATESJENS «SC 00,,
107 , Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
....
Over 2490 Hydro-Extractors Sold and at work
WIWB!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST mUEM>
AUSTRALIA.
R3P Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-m ntt stmt, SYDNEY.
SOLE
FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar*
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Testimonials and full particulars.
THORNE’S
M WHISKY.
SANDEISAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
df
gd
RACKAROCK
't'Cl
★
AH^C Esr
HOBAHT.
JtSJsS,
Hadley s Orient Hotel.
n*»
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.'
WIMPOLK’S GEORGE HOTEL, oppositeStJ
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for'
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
cM
oo
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month— THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST.
PIONEER
B E LTIMG
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. G. LUOOWifif Sc SON, LTD.,
JLXT' York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
“WEALTH OF NATIONS.”
Messes. T. C. WILLIAMS COMPANY, of RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.,
have prepared for this market a
HIGH-GRADE TOBACCO
Under the Brand of
“WEALTH OF NATIONS.”
The knowledge which the manufacturers have gained in supplying the favorite
brands of Welcome Nugget, Victory, and Diadem, enables them to confidently
recommend Wealth of Nations
TO ALL SMOKERS OF DARK TOBACCO.
Obtainable of all leading Tobacconists and Stores.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
'
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIFE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
’ ■ BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
m n & im
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane.
The Bulletin
YoL 21.—N0. 1048, J
[Saturday, March 17, 1900.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsier.


*1 have ventured, quite unjustifiably, to accentuate a
personal preference in the text. In line 6, for Fim read
That. In line 9 Kendall wrote, for Into thy arms, Out-
side to thee. “Outside” is .commonplace, and “thee”
clashes with “thee” in line .11. The final three and
a-half lines are the perfection of beauty.
For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
fg
A. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland-
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
-post
THE RED PAGE.
The Sonnet .
IN the domain of Poesy, the Sonnet
offers that career which is open to
Talent. It is a form of verse in which
any cultured person, by dint of taking
pains, may achieve a tolerable success—a
greater success than the same talent, the
same pains, will bring in other recognised
forms. Lyric poets are'born ; sonnet-writers
are made. The lyric poet inherits Nature ;
the sonnet-writer conquers Art. The essence
of the lyric is spontaneity—it gushes freshly
from some primal source : the sonnet is
clothed with artificiality—it is by comparison
an artesian, jet, sought and striven-for,
falling into a trim basin and led away in a
masonried channel. An epic, to continue
the metaphor, is some broad, majestic
Amazon of rivers ; a drama (whose soul is
conflict—between Man and Man, Man and
Nature,'Man and Fate) might be likened to
the fury of the rapids before the tragic
climax of Niagara. And Poesy is the Sea
whither all waters converge, and in which
the metaphor drowns as it deserves to.
What is said of the sonnet may be said of
the other “fixedforms” or “French forms”
—rondeau and rondel, ballade and vilianelle
and what not. In all these Art counts for
much ; emotion goes for less than intellect
and knowledge. But it is the sonnet, and
particularly what is called the Italian sonnet,
which gives the most valuable for
labour. The sonnet alone of these forms may
gain by being written in series : the others
do not lend themselves to the continuous
development of a theme, are with more diffi-
culty. sustained at an effective .height, and
Jlave a latent element of monotony which
is made oppressive .by reduplication. Com-
pare, for sake of example, Andrew Lang’s
XXXII Ballades ” with Mi's. Browning s
“Sonnets from the Portuguese.”
lor him who has not the spontaneous
lyric emotion, the writing of lyrics is a
hopeless task. His work remains always
stiff and artificial, and the more he strives
the stiffer it is likely to become. But in a
sonnet the lyric emotion is out of place.
The sonnet’s especial value comes in glow-
ing, not in flaming ; and though sometimes
by sheer intensity it yields an impression of
white heat, it always lacks the visible and
kindling spark which is the lyric’s peculiar
property. Or, if that spark be found in
sonnet-form, one is safe in saying that it
could have been better displayed otherwise.
Now, the number of persons with a con-
scious intellectual appreciation of Poetry
is mu.ch greater than the number of
those who possess the emotional power of
poetic creation. For the latter, while the
force of youth endures, the sonnet-form is
too cramped to contain their torrent of ideas
and the words which seem naturally to clothe
those ideas as soon as risen. For the for-
mer, with a mere trickle of imagination,
“ the sonnet’s scanty plot of ground ” is
ample. By intense culture it is possible
to destroy the impression of exiguous re-
sources. Decking passion with a phrase, or
wisdom with a sonorous cadence, the sonnet-
writer may succeed in creating imperishable
thought-stuff. The quatrain has been called
the epigram of Poetry ; but , in virtue of this
intellectual quality, this . fastidious aspect,
it is perhaps rather 1 the sonnet which
is entitled to the term. In other
words, the sonnet flowers from the in-
tellectual side of Poetry as the epigram
flowers from the intellectual side of Prose.
The dogma must be cautiously accepted, in
view of the sonnet’s innumerable develop-
ments due to difference of writers’ tempera-
ments. But the epithets “hard,” “metal-
lic,” “brilliant,” “polished,” applied to a
famous sonnet-writer like Heredia, are pre-
cisely those with which the epigram is com-
monly associated.
Heredia himself stresses the part-mechani-
cal, part-ideal character of the sonnet. “If
I have clung to it,” he writes, “ it is because
I consider that, at once mystic and mathe-
matical, it is the most beautiful of ‘ fixed-
form ’ poems ; and because by its brevity
and difficulty it exacts a conscientiousness of
execution and a concentration of thought
which must excite and push to perfection the
artist really worthy of his name.”
Heredia refers to the Italian sonnet, which
in common,parlance means a poem in four-
teen lines heroic measure, rhymed for the
first eight lines on two sounds disposed like
this—
a, b, b, a, a , b, b, a.
and for the last six lines on two or three
sounds disposed in any way—though the
sonnet should not close with a couplet. That
form is “the sonnet” of contemporary
verse ; and is opposed in English by what is
called the Shakespearian sonnet, because
Shakespeare used it. This consists of three
quatrains with a final couplet. For disquisi-
tions on the variations from these main
English forms, consult Wm. Sharp" in “ Son-
nets of this Century ” (only Is.); or Theo-
dore Watts in Encyc 1 opcedia Britannica ; or
Mark Pattison’s introduction to his edition
of Milton’s sonnets.
A knowledge of the sonnet’s laws is only
the beginning of wisdom. For, says a
Saturday Hevien'-ev,
If it be required that the quatrains must not
contain more than two rhymes, nor the tercets
more than three, and that these rhymes should
recur in particular places according to rule; if no
word should be introduced merely for the sake of
the rhyme; if the sonnet should develop one
thought or feeling gracefully and completely,
without a word too much or too little, without
obscurity, irrelevancy, commonplace or extravag-
ance ; if the major system should close in
the eighth line with a full stop, and not
run on into the ninth ; if in the last line the
thought should reach a climax full of energy and
force, or the sonnet should die away at its.close
like a falling sky-rocket, as if from pure exhaus-
tion of the idea which is its life ; and if in addition
to these stringent conditions, it should be the
unmistakeable result of poetic inspiration and
fraught with sacred fire : how rarely can even the
brightest and most imaginative intellect succeed
in satisfying these numerous requirements !
There; are as yet very few Australians who
have attained to the knowledge of the
sonnet, and who write it even tolerably well.
Judging by contributions to The Bulletin,
the average person’s conception of the
sonnet is merely “ a short poem,” and the
wntei who is aware that it consists of
foui teen lines is apt to plume himself on his
superiority. Even editors err. In Kendall’s
book there nre & number of 14- line poems
I escribed as sonnets which are written by
no means according to rule. With a little
variation of the rhymes these would become
he best sonnets yet written in Australia.
Bur Kendall lias something of .Rossetti’s
sonority of phrase, and even a sweeter
:hought. This, of " Rest,” is rarely quoted,
yet io is one of the most perfect of Kendall’s
Doeias —
While soft winds blew the sorrows from my face,
So quiet in the fellowship of dreams.
H u-pur was more scientific,, but when he
is not stiff or rough he is invariably tame.
Take this at random—there is little room for
choice
Here we may take warning by a signal error
—the assonance of rhymes—Sheen—feel-
steal—m.ien. So to end with similar vowel-
sounds is one .of .a rhymer’s worst faults ; for
you lose the contrast of harmony which
gives the ear one of its chief pleasures in
poetry.
Arthur Bayldon’s frequently-quoted “Mar-
lowe sonnet is probably the best single
example yet produced in Australia ; though
it is less a sonnet in the esoteric sense than
a series of descriptive lines in sonnet-form,
and its appeal is too purely pictorial.
The second Me (line 6) jars a little : the
statement seems disconnected, rather too
abruptly emphasised. But a change to And
is impossible; and on the whole the lines
are admirable.
Gordon wrote no sonnets ; Brunton
Stephens—peculiarly well fitted to write
sonnets—is silent also. Several writers
have tried one or three—usually with ill-
success. The best collection of Australian
sonnets is the work of Arthur Adams, whose
“China” was recently praised by a contri-
butor to this page.
A jarring note is struck in the second word
with lies— always awkward, unless prefaced
by matter which makes clear • which of the
alternative meanings is implied. And the
line is stiffened by the first comma. Im-
potence and insolence sound too closely akin.
And why “deserted courts’' in over-popu-
lated China ? These are some of the cavils
which may be urged ; but the sonnet has
good lines, and the general spirit is finely
confirmed by the closing image.
J. Le Gay Brereton seems to be our most
productive sonneteer ; and his form is gener-
ally accurate, but his matter lacks spirit.
Possibly this is his most vital sonnet—
Your dreams with mine are mated. Let me stay.
Spent — pent — sent —are too close in sound ;
and the incursion of an octave rhyme into
the sestet is a grave fault. But the sonnet
gives to reflect, as the French say ; though
some perverse hint of humorous anti-climax
will come stealing in.
V. J. Daley has published few sonnets,
and he is much better represented in other
fields of verse. In “Death” he walks in
the track of the schoolmaster like a boy who
has just been caned.—
Here is material of which Daley" could have
made a very attractive poem in another
form. But his. rhymes,come in ,as stiffiy as
if he were writing for bouts rimes ; and the
turn-over of wordsUike, night-of is a sonnet-
tyro’s fault. Observe how the craftsman
gets in a resounding line as climax !
William Gay, in Victoria, has perhaps
handled the sonnet more sonorously than
any other local writer. His lines move with
a good deal of the required ease and dignity ;
but unluckily he has sometimes to sacrifice
his sense, sometimes to use line-eking words.
And on the whole he does not show the
high poetic spirit : his sentiments are too
commonplace. Possibly this is his most
effective sonnet : j udgment depends on per-
sonal taste.
“ The unbroken circle of the skies ” is
not peculiar to Australia. And we have
“growed : ' divided—evolved that way, by
the addition of colony to colony—’t was not
all Separation. Great Mammon had little or
nothing to do with the rending of Australia’s
garment. How was Mammon concerned in
the Swan River Settlement, for example ?
So the argument of the sonnet does not
convince, its truth does not satisfy. But
there are fine lines, and a fine swing, and a
fine impression—not quite “lift” enough.
Here endeth this random commentary.
And a prize of £2 2s. is offered for the best
sonnet on Australia
received by April 28. The rhyme-model
must be that of R. W. Gilder’s sonnet on
this page.
THE BOFELLOW.
A sonnet is a moment’s monument,
Memorial from the soul’s eternity
To one dead deathless hour. Look that it be,
Whether for lustral rite or dire portent,
Of its own arduous fulness reverent:
Carve it in ivory or in ebony,
As day or night may rule, and let Time see
Its flowering crest impearled and orient.
A sonnet is a coin : its face reveals
The soul—its converse to what power’tis due:
Whether for tribute to the august appeals
Of Life, or dower in Love’s high retinue,
It serve, or ’mid the dark wharf’s cavernous breath
In Charon’s palm it pays the toll to death.
Dante Gabriel Rossetti.
You build a sonnet on about this plan :
Your first line ground out, take the next one so:
And make it rhyme with this one, just below.
Then, next you match the first line, if you can.
Don’t hurry the machine. The lines must scan,
With steady motion turn the crank. You know
’T is not a sonnet if it limps. Go slow.
Now find some rhyme for “scan’’-—for instance,
•‘man.”
As to the last six lines, some latitude
May be allowed. Take any word, as “grove.”
Now hunt a rhyme for “ latitude.” Try “shrewd.”
This line must end with “dove,” or “love,”or
“ strove, ”
And this with “mood,” or “prude,” or “crude,”
or “dude ” ;
And there’s your sonnet. Throw it in the stove!
Anon.
Yon silvery billows breaking on the beach
Fall back in foam.beneath the star-shine clear,
The while my rhymes are murmuring in your
ear _ F; -
A restless lore like that the- billows teach ;
For on these sonnet-waves my sou 1 would reach
From its own depths, arid rest within you, dear,
As through the billowy voices yearning here
Great nature strives to find a human speech.
A sonnet is a wave of melody ;
From heaving waters of the impassioned soul
A billow of tidal music one and whole
Flows in the “ octave ” ; then returning free,
Its ebbing surges in the, “sestet ” roll
Back to the deeps of Life’s tumultuous sea-. •
Theodore Watts-Dunion.
Fourteen small, baleful berries on the hem
Of Circe’s mantle, all of greenest gold ;
Fourteen of lone Calypso’s tears that roll’d
Into the sea, for pearls to come of them.
Fourteen small signs of omen in the gem.
With which Medea human fate foretold ;
Fourteen small drops, which Faustus, growing
old,
Craved of the Fiend to water life’s dry stem.
It is the pure white diamond Dante brought
To Beatrice ; the sapphire Laura wore
When Petrarch cut it sparkling out of thought;
The ruby Shakespeare hewed from his heart's
core; .
The dark, deep emerald that Rossetti wrought
For his own soul, to wear for evermore.
Eugene Lee-Hajiilon.
What is a sonnet ?. ’T is the pearly shell
That murmurs of the far-olf, murmuring sea;
A precious jewel carved most curiously—
It is a little picture painted well.
What is a sonnet t ’Tis the tear that fell
From a great poet’s hidden ecstasy,
A two-edged sword, a song, a star, ah me !
Sometimes a heavy-tolling funeral bell.
This was the flame that shook with Dante’s breath,
The solemn organ whereon Milton played,
And the clear glass where Shakespeare’s
shadow fails :
A sea this is—beware who ventureth !
For like a fjord the narrow floor is laid
Deep as mid-ocean to the sheer mountain
walls.
Richard Watson Gildek.
To write a sonnet doth Juana press me :
I’ve never found me in such stress or pain;
A sonnet numbers fourteen lines, ! t is plain—
And three are gone, ere I can say God bless me !
I thought that spinning rhymes might sore
oppress me,
Yet here I’m midway in the last quatrain;
And if the foremost tercet I can gain,
The quatrains need not any more distress me.
To the first tercet I have got at last,
And travel through it with such right good will,
That with this line I’ve finished it, I ween;
I’m in the second now, and see how fast
The thirteenth line runs tripping from my
quill . . .
Hurrah, ’t is done ! Count if there be fourteen!
James Young Gibson, from the Spanish
of Lope de Vega.
REST."
Sometimes we feel so spent for want of rest,
We have no thought beyond. I know to-day,
When tired of bitter lips and dull f delay
With faithless words, I cast mine eyes upon
The shadows of a distant mountain-crest,
And said, “ Yon hill must hide within its breast
Some secret glen,’ secluded from the' sun.”
O, mother Nature ! would that I could run
Into thy arms ; and, like a wearied guest,
Half blind with lamps and sick of feasting, lay
An aching head on thee. Then down the streams
The moon might swim, and I should feel her
grace,
ABSENCE.
Nightly I watch the moon with silvery sheen
Flaking the city house-tops—till I feel
Thy memory, dear one, like a presence steal
Down in her light; for always in her mien
Thy soul’s similitude my soul hath seen !
And as she seemeth now—a guardian seal
On heaven’s far bliss, upon my future weal
Even such thy truth is—radiantly serene.
But long my fancy may not entertain
These bright resemblances—for lo ! a cloud
Blots her away ; and in my breast the pain
Of absent love recurring pines aloud.
When shall I look in thy bright eyes again,
O my beloved ! with like sadness bowed.
MARLOWE.
With Eastern banners flaunting in the breeze
Royal processions, sounding fife and gong.
And showering jewels on the jostling throng,
March to the tramp of Marlowe’s harmonies :
He drained life’s brimming goblet to the lees ;
He racked not that a peer superb and strong
Would tune great notes to his impassioned song
And top his cannonading lines with ease.
To the wild clash of cymbals we behold
The tragic ending of his youthful life :
The revelry of kisses bought with gold ;
The jest and jealous rival and the strife ;
A harlot weeping o’er a corpse scarce cold ;
A scullion fleeing with a bloody knife.
CHINA.
She lies, a grave disdain all her defence,
Too imperturbable for scorn. She hears
Only the murmur of the thronging y,ears
Th#t thunder slowly on her scores immense
And ebb away in moaning impotence.
Giants enduring, she and Time are peers— 1
Her dream-hazed eyes knowing no hope, no
tears.
Her glance a langour-lidded insolence.
And though the rabble of the restless West
In her deserted courts set their rash sway,
She heeds them not: as when the sun, with-
drawn
From his untarnished sky, knows it distressed
By storm of weakling stars, that he at dawn
Will wither with one ruthless glance away.
NIGHTFALL.
Why must you leave me at the close of day,
When all the heat of twelve long hours is pent
Here in iny thudding heart ? What day hath
spent
Of light and life and love is stored away
Within the coffer of my soul; and may
Your hand not turn the key, since God hath sent
You as his angel ? Know you what he meant ?
My place is with you, darling. Let me stay.
Alone—how long?—while day through other lands
Makes progress till our east again is grey,
In dreams I hear the secret words you say,
With throbbing temples and with trembling hands.
I know your will is not with your commands.
DEATH.
The awful seers of old, who wrote in words
Like drops of blood great thoughts that through
the night
Of ages burn, as eyes of lions light
Deep jungle-dusks ; who smote with songs like
swords
The soul of man on its most secret chords,
And made the heart of-him a harp to smite, —
Where are they ? where that old man lorn of
sight,
The king of song among these laurelled lords ?
But where are all the ancient singing-spheres
That burst through chaos like the summer’s
' ' breath .■■■■■
Through ice-bound seas where • never seaman
steers ?
Burnt out. Gone down. No .star remembereth
These stars and seers well-silenced through the
years—
The songless years of everlasting death.
AUSTRALIAN FEDERATION.
From all division let our land be free,
For God has made her one : complete she lies
Within the unbroken circle of the skies, •
And round her indivisible the sea
Breaks on her single shore; while only we,
Her foster children, bound with sacred ties
Of one dear blood, one storied enterprise,
Are negligent of her integrity.
Her seamless garment,' at great Mammon’s nod,
With hands unfilial we have basely rent.
With petty variance our souls are spent,
And ancient kinship under foot is trod :
O let us rise, united, penitent,
And be one people—mighty, serving God !


Cf EC OND-HAND
w AND
jg-EW yUKNIXUKS
(Best Quality)*
RUY EEOM XJS and
SAVE 60 PER CEN'D
f £1 Saved is equivalent
to £6 Earned 1
Every requisite tor the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quaStyat fully 50 per oent lege than prioes charged else-
Where. OalLaad inspect.
JNO. O. LOVIH*I< & CO.,
27$ George-at (8 doors past Hunter-si.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 102$.
DR. J. GOLUS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPYNE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyna
Every bottle of this well-knowr
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, bears or
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked whioh single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
HOMOEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL . .
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS OF ENERGY, etc.
Has cured Thousands for the BLOOD, SKIN, NERVES,
RHEUMATISM, etc.
“WORDS OF WISDOM.”, This Free Book about the
Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40 pages of
useful information, and will be posted in plain cover
absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address— The Irvine Homoeopathic Co., oorner Hunter
and Bligh Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A TELIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give. a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
wm permanently cure juu. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
df
A
*
r Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot irom any Chemist.
_ Proprietor .'—STEPHEN GREEK,
210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
lor my invaluable little pamphlet.
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
“LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CUBE ECZEMA (“ Psoriasis
Acne”). BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT, VIC.
*
♦
d>
IP
Ql* d
RNs
INC
*/?
CH
<s>
OS
&cC
&.C
£A?£
S
H
Y
e
P *ap
r, £tors
DRUNKENNESS
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS, Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address —R. CORNWALL, Manager Malintr Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
The Life of the System.
nanKlN.
WHEAT SEASON, 1899-1900
All Grain held in Trust on Account of
Consignors .
Storage Accommodation—Spacious and Unrivalled.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
LIBERAL CASH ADVANCES.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Co., Ltd.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co
T THirT*PT*TI
Offices:
LIMITED.
12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores -Centbal Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.”
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
V"
rtSK FOR
e?
COMBINES
PERFECTION Of QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY
iN
,
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone —
or
Zonophone-
Price, £7.
Carriage Paid.
THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
Also on Sale —
1 Cinematographe complete and 10
Films, £5O.
1 Cinematographe and 10 Films, £35.
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune for a
smart man.
2 Edison Kintosoopes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Ray Outfits, complete.
the talking MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EPISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
Removed to 1 and 3 Rowe Street. (120 PITT STREET), SYDNEY (ONLY).
Nearly opposite Q.P.Q.
W, J. If. Oldershaw, Manager.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
w
IP
&
v
&
ftc^V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6 b., 17- A 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and IOUNd,
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which oauses roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to .life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Paok of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magie
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Paoket posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716% and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Read This!
Are you SUFFERING from
Eczema, or any kind of Skin
Disease, Barcoo Bash, or Rot, Old Sores ? PETROLEUM
OINTMENT will cure you. Price, 10s.; two pots, No. 1
and No. 2.
Rheumatic, Neuralgic and Gouty Complaints. PETRO-
LEUM EMBROCATION is infallible. Price, 2/6.
Piles (outward or inward) —PETROLEUM JELLY gives
immediate relief in all cases. Price, 2/6.
Corns, Bunions, Warts, and other excrescences. PETRO-
LEUM PASTE has cured thousands, and will cure you.
Price, 1/6. Patients in Sydney and suburbs may obtain
advice and treatment at their own residence by appoint
ment. No Extra Charge. Either of the above remedies
will be posted to any address. Postal Notes or P. 0.0
payable to
C. H. BARTLEY, 49 Hunter Street;
or Box 683, G.P.0., Sydney.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
g
/CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead 'from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs,Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Hon>« Catarrh C6re Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
MEDICATOR-
t( COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
THE
DEAF
HEAB
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
Eost-card to-day for illustrated
ook, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
Hat
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to'the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St. j Melbourne.
.
(The B. and N. Treatment).
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. NEUROZONE is a
scientifically compounded remedy, ptepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency
271 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOB HABIT positively CUBED
by administering EUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect, a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTEB STBEET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STBEET, MELBOUBNE.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels', and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu,
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
and LOZENGES.
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
TORONTO
CANADA
i
si ;l»M ll? Jal
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD BTREET. DUNEDIN. .
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & Co. Ltd., Wool- Brokers
SYDNEY (Selling Agents only).
BEST FIRM IN AUSTRALIA for the SALE of WOOL, SKINS, TALLOW, BARK, LEATHER, WHEAT, etc.


Address s
Care GEO. ADAMS,
Hobart
ROSEHILL C. March 31.
50,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the
above.
Name
Address
Doncaster H. April 14.
25,000 Subscribers at 0.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me _shares in the above.
Name , ,
Address
« « •
Sydney C.
April 16.
£O,OOO Subscribers at &
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
jshares in the above.
Name.
Address
Adelaide 0. May 9
£O,OOO Subscribers at Q,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
m
\
x
x
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring: Mills on the Universal Bolter System
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights!
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
ILLS
all i
INSEC
6ewm& !!!
df
»
FEDERAL
PALACE
-t^JIOT€L
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation—all prices—ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Manager.
USE
Spooler's
ROniNAbTDRESSIK
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
:: OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIBECIIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing tor HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation.
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, eto.
m
<3-0 TO TTTiT.T-
IG 01 .A N O for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Hagcij,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
ACiStraliap flOtOal ProVidcpt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and O.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
gd
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
JiST Send for Price List. IBS
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
—r-» jtfji n
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN.
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
• PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD is of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
M ELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MELDIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ALL DEALERS.
Mrs. Em
JLYNN
UNTON,
The Famous Authoress
writes —
Brougham House;,
Maevern,
January 16th, 1896.
“ I have used your'KOKO’now since
June last, and I have not only stopped
the falling out, which had been ex-
cessive after a severe illness, but I
have an entirely new growth of hair,
while the old hair is longer. As lam
not a young woman, but an old one,
I think this is a convincing test of
your preparation.”
‘KOKO’
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair. 1 /-, 2 16 and 4,'6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS GO., LTD.,
16, Bevis Marks, Bondon, England.
THOMSON'S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape,, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
m
v
A
OV Ui
i
Thom
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & HER ABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST.
N.B.—Old Model Corsets always in stock.
TO BE HAD OF ADZ. DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Co-, Ld-, London
mm
The Physician’s Our©
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA
A
.' ' :
Sold Throughout the World.
N.B.—ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
IKT.S.'VC". Carriage & Saddlery AXaxif Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Prioe List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, & 7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any lirms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(clGse to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
fg
Dolirered at any Wharf *r
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘ ‘ The bitterness of the Illustrated London
News Ingrams—father and son”—writes a wander-
ing Westralian to The Bulletin, “ to deserting
employes has been shown this week in an especially
clear light. Clement K. Shorter, the woolly-
haired and recent editor of the 1.L.N., Sketch,
English Illustrated Magazine, etc., ‘ had a
difference’ with Sir William I. which nearly
resulted in C.K.S. mistaking the staircase for a
‘ chute.’ S. is now to edit a new illustrated weekly
The Sphere. Immediately the advts. appeared,
Sir Billy advertised a similar publication, The
Spear. A truly Ingram close shave.”
Nature.
I care for nought in all the world but my resist-
less will,
And though men pray to many gods I give no
answer still.
For I am Love, and Life, and Death, and Hate —
all things that be
Are but the creatures of my brain who have their
power from me.
The pleasure that you have I buy by others’ grief
and pain,
And when the soul is overstrained I turn the scale
again.
I starve the young birds in their nests, I make the
aged die,
I look on love and pain and joy—l look, and what
care I ?
With strange beliefs and senseless creeds I hold
the world in fee
That none may learn in bitterness, There are no
f/Qds but me !
For vile to me and things of scorn are all their
worshippings
(Those small, brief creatures of the clay who yearn
for angels’ wings !)
In mockery I bid them pray and hymn they know
not what,
Alike to me are shaven priest, and king, and
drunken sot.
In mockery I take them all, I bid them live and
die,
I look on love and pain and joy—l loo ■>s and what
care I ?
•In peace I play with pestilence, and when my
pleasure’s o’er
I call on Greed and Avarice to loose the dogs of
war
To watch them tear the throats of men and feed
upon the blood—
I* who am Mother unto all, I love the fiery flood.
For youth is youth, and age is age, and I would
have them both,
I win to ways of bitterness the maiden nothing
loth,
I charm the aged sage to sin ; ay ! all the World
is mine;
I trip the priest upon the path and leave him to
repine.
For I am Love, and Life, and Death, and Hate —
all things that be,
And Superstition, of them all, is dearest unto me,
For this it is that makes men blind and holds the
world in fee ;
Though yet ’twill learn in bitterness—there are
no gods but me.
WILL. M. FLEMING.
A Theory.
When leaving your sweetheart and country behind
you,
Away fortune-hunting for years or for aye,
With nothing in pocket, and but to remind you—
One soft golden curl from her head—then they
say,
“ Poor fellow, how harrowed his heart must have
felt! ”
And “ Oh, how broken-hearted
He was en we parted ! ”
But the feeling is started
Just under the belt !
The heart is the part that they say is affected
By Fortune’s barbed arrows or Venus’ bright
flame,
And other such foes. But why have they selected
This region, of all the corporeal frame,
As the source of emotions which really have
dwelt
(So thought the chief sages
Of far distant ages
And said in their pages)
—Just under the belt.
Have you ever examined your innermost senses
When —alone, calmly walking back home from a
spree—
A large beery ruffian with hiccoughs commences
To curse you—imagined an old enemy ?
You go for him straight, but I’m sure you have felt,
Although you were taking
The pleasure of breaking
His face—a slight quaking
Just under the belt.
That’s excitement or fear. And if hate there
arises—
Suppose your dear wife has run off with a chum—
Your anger (or pity for him !) and surprise is
Experienced there. For the feeling will come
(Though your “ heart ” may be rent or with sorrow
may melt)
In the self-same position
As awe and contrition,
Delight and derision—
Just under the belt 1
PAN.


Lightest Wines
Australia.
in
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Policies^rSgi^ 1 «• of A»ui»nee, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
through illness to earn a livelihood.
„ Board op Directors :
Bon. ff&iEl&Sr™*-
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,330,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE
Waite for Special Prospectus.]
Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
AnnuUl Income exceeds £220,000
STREET, SYDNEY.
GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TattcrSail’S Hotel
Pitt Street, Sydney. W. J. Adams. Manager.
Ladies with families will find in this
handsome, newly-built, newly-furnished
hotel all the cbmforts of the best-
appointed homes, and an attention that
■will please the most exacting.
Excellent Suites of Rooms,
Private Dining and Reception
Rooms.
Tariff: 10s. per day; £3 per week.
NOBEL-6LAS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
1®
a
/
W
RPiDEWA
SB
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sporting BALLISTITC.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
TE
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING- BALLISTITE won over .£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hurlint?-
lam m April and May, 1899; or over £lOOO more than any other powder.— r- Vide Field, June 24, ’99.
PAR VO 2-inch Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Gam,
tohooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
AGENTS :
Messrs. Balgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria , Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant &
Co.
D.Braham&Co.
TAILORS,
Habit and Breeches Makers.
SUMMER SUITINGS-
—IMPORTERS OF—
VICKERMAN’S SERGES.
Guaranteed to stand Sun and Sea-water.
Sole A&ents for.
Cellular Underwear.
The. only rational form of undergarments for hot weather
Used by the Army Officers, and Medical Corps
on active service.
SHIRTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SPECIALTY—THE UNIFORM SHIRT.
PYJAMAS, SOCKS, UNDERSHIRTS AND PANTS,
FABRICS BY THE YARD.
Patterns and Price Lists Post Free.
David Braham &Co.,
73 & 75 KING STREET, SYDNEY .
(Between George & York Streets).
STICK T©
CAME©
CIGARETTES
The Demand for DIXSON’S AMERICAN TOBACCOS
so increases that the sales for Sydney Factory
During 1899 were 71 TONS GREATER than during 1898.
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading* Brand in N.S. Wales.
CONQUEROR
THE WORKMAN’S TOBACCO—CHEW AND SMOKING.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking' to this in large and increasing quantities.
CHAMPION - - - Ihe choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
CONQUEROR - The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same, never changes.
BONANZA CIGARS - - Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by machinery), a marvel of cneapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1048.
SATUKDAY, MARCH 17, 1000.
Priob 6d.
2 « A long beer, and don’t
forget the penny change 1
{ _Tram Passenger :
“ Two sections, please ,
. ~ Mn’t wet yer finger with yer tongue when.
-an you shouldn t >_ . a^n >t nice.
givine a ticket, to a sent,, '
•
3—Passing the plate.
4. A problem in arithmetic.
ANOTHER VICTIM,
v S. —D.T. Patient : “ Is this the place where
they give 2d. a dozen for rats 1 "
Clerk (facetiously): “ Yes.” ...
V,. D.T.P.: “ Then write me out a cheque
for £lOO. I’ve got all the -blessed rats in Sydney
with me.”
7.— The Absent-Minded 6eggar
with variations.
g M. r Gubfcina generously presented the Patriotic Fund with three d
rats .—(Diily paper.)
RATS AS CURRENCY.
The Municipal Council of Brisbane is paying for all dead rats at the rate of 2s. per dozen. Why not - put them into circulate" as legal tender?


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO ÜBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
tfc Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2l£ Sutter-street.
South Africa.— R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of ljd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
xlZefai.
SATURDAY, MARCH 17, 1900.
The Plague, and Sundries.
In some respects New South Wales ranks
among the worst-governed countries in the
world. It is an ill-regulated place where
almost any sharper can open an office, and
say he is a bank with an immense capital,
and proceed to swindle the public out of
their deposits ; this was done very largely a
few years ago, and it presumably will be done
again as soon as the public has any deposits
to spare. It is a place where there is no
official standard of solvency for insurance
societies—where any carter or clerk or de-
cayed bagman or pick-and-shovel gentleman
may label himself “ M.D.” and defraud the
weak and dying out of their money by lying
promises of prolonged existence—where
wharf-lumpers are allowed to call themselves
dentists and wreck the public’s teeth, and
persons who have failed in the eating-house
business are lung-specialists. It is a place
where things aren’t regulated they
just slide. And when they are regu-
lated on paper they seldom are in
fact. There is a Sunday-closing law which
isn’t enforced ; an Early-closing law which
is already disregarded with impunity by many
large establishments ; a law against betting-
shops which is null and void ; city bye-laws
against obstructing the streets and befouling
them which are never put into execution;
and laws and regulations that are practically
a dead letter against profane and indecent
language, for the whole city of Sydney is
full of curse and “blanky” all day and
every day and far into the night, and other
N.S.W. towns are likewise. All Austra-
lasia is more or less the same way, but among
the five greater provinces N.S.W. is the
least regulated and the most happy go-lucky.
* * ¥ *9
It isn’t only the national “ casualness ”
that is at the root of the trouble. The
country has a perverted and horrible pride
in these things. It is, in the language of its
people, the freest country on earth. The
freedom which consists in the right to howl
and curse in the street, to gather at corners
and block traffic, to cover the pavements with
decaying vegetable matter, to expectorate on
the side-walks, to form “pushes,” to be
bogus doctors and dentists and bankers, to
put up hideous wooden shanties in thickly-
peopled suburbs for want of a decent Build-
ing Act, to have them drained anyhow or
nohow, to let them fall into disrepair and
become haunts of disease germs—the free-
dom to be, in short, any and every kind of a
nuisance to the community, is highly prized.
It is called Liberty as a general thing.
There are a few show cities in Europe whose
purity and order attract the attention of
the wandering Australian tourist. Their
order is preserved in the only way possible
—by rigid police discipline which falls like
an avalanche on the man who loafs, spits or
curses or drops tilings in the street,
which regulates the style and material of
new buildings, insists on old ones being
kept up to a certain standard, and generally
dragoons the • ill - conditioned section of
the public. The wandering Australian
generally admires the effect, but complains
about the beastly tyranny of the method. It
wouldn’t agree, he says, with Australian
ideas of Liberty. Australia, and N.S.W.
more than all the other Australias, is so
anxious to preserve the freedom of the dirty
person and the hoodlum and the owner of
foul and disgraceful shanties that it is quite
unable to remember that other people are
entitled to any freedom at all. The right of
the decent section of the community not to
hear curses and obscene language, not to be
obstructed by crowds of prostitutes and
loafers and threatened by gangs of larrikins,
and not to be offended in the streets by foul
tobacco-smoke, decaying vegetable matter,
tobacco-juice, bad smells, and the constant
sight of dingy, ramshackle, and decayed
buildings, fences, and the like, is wholly
unrecognised. The decent citizen has prac-
tically no rights and no freedom. In the
general anxiety to preserve the inalienable
liberty of the dirty person and the ruffian,
he has been quite forgotten.
* * * *
Now that the Plague has taken up what
looks like a definite residence in Sydney, the
daily press has begun to cry out spasmodi-
cally for reform. If the daily press had
backed up The Bulletin in its demands for
reform in years before the Plague arrived,
the unclean city might have been in a better
state to argue the point with its bony visi-
tant. This paper dealt with the subject
eleven years ago (on 23rd of March, 1889) in
an article headed “ The Horrors of Philan-
throphy,” and again (on 25th October,
1890) it published the plans and specifica-
tions for “An Ideal City"—the kind of
city that Sydney ought to be converted into
if its people only had the requisite energy.
On 25th March, ’95, it was at the weary
old subject under the heading of “ AnUnclean
World,” and it has kept returning to it more
and more violently ever since, some of its
latest efforts being two articles on “A Recon-
structed Sydney” dated 24th June and Bth
July, 1899, and one called *‘ Wanted, a String-
ent Building Act,” in the issue of 24th Feb-
ruary, this year. Now in a moment of
panic, when the plague has really arrived in
a small way, the daily press begins to say
feebly, at the eleventh hour, what The Bul-
letin has been saying in much stronger
terms for eleven years. It begins to find
that streets are narrow and dirty and
neglected, and that there is no comprehen-
sive Building Act applying to the whole
metropolitan area, so that in many of the
suburbs builders may still put up structures
with as little heed to sanitation as if this was
the year 900 instead of 1900. It has been
discovered that, though Sydney and its
suburbs have spent over £2,000,000 on an
elaborate sewerage system with a view
to the safeguarding of the public health,
the law, with its usual tenderness for
the sacred liberties of the Dirty Person,
didn’t make it compulsory for him to con-
nect his house, or to connect it properly, with
the new sewers when they were constructed,
or else the law was allowed to become a dead
letter like most other good sanitary statutes
in the land of Let-it-Slide. The result is
that out of 22,000 city tenements only about
1000 are properly connected. Even State
schools are not all sewered ; not only did
the State let things slide as regards enforcing
cleanliness in others, but it slid itself. And
just now, when the N.S.W. metropolis is
more than usually decayed, because for
years past the city aldermen have lacked the
courage to raise enough taxes to make ends
meet, and have tried instead to economise by
letting the city go to ruin, it is especially
cheering to learn that it is proposed to try
and make large economies in the cleansing-
vote—because the aldermen still lack the
courage to levy enough taxation and make
ends meet.
* m * *
It isn’t any mere temporary spasm of
cleaning-up that Sydney requires. Spasms
come and go, and leave things in the end
very much as they were. Sydney had one
of them long ago, in the days of the small-
pox scare, and it had previous ones in the
days of other scares, and it has one now.
The invariable result is that six months, or
even six weeks, after the scare is over
things have so completely gone back to the
old rut that no one could tell there had ever
been a spasm. It is the dirty system that
wants abolition. To begin at the beginning,
there is no hope of cleanliness while the
metropolitan district is divided into 41
municipalities ; there aren’t 41 sets of clean
aldermen procurable in the space. There is
some kind of a Building Act in existence,
but it doesn’t apply to any suburb un-
less the suburb, through its aldermen,
requests that it shall be extended thereto,
and many of them have never requested
and don’t seem likely to. There is
no spare cash for sanitation while the
public’s money goes to maintain 41 separate
town-halls and 41 separate sets of officials,
and to pay interest on 41 separate debts—
debts which could be consolidated at such a
saving in interest that it alone would pay
for a vast, amount of much-needed sanitary
renovation. There are no men in office big
enough to understand what wants doing
and strong enough to do it, and there aren’t
likely to be under the present system—a
man with the ability to be a municipal states-
man doesn’t care to spend his time trying to
move six or eight petty hucksters into a
larger comprehension of what requires to be
done for the good government of a munici-
pality that is only the size of a red cotton
pocket-handkerchief. And there is practi-
cally no hope of amalgamation, unless Par-
liament takes the matter in hand, because the
advantages of it have to be expounded in
each municipality to the six or eight or twelve
petty dealer-aldermen aforesaid, to whom the
blessings of a great idea are just about as
understandable as the blessings of science
are to a kanaka. And the people are about
as difficult to rouse as the aldermen, because
the people have come, by long experience, to
regard municipal politics as merely a ques-
tion whether grocer Smith shall be an aider-
man and do nothing, or whether grocer
Jones shall be ditto and do ditto.
* * * * «■
Possibly some day an intelligent Govern-
ment will arise which will take the 41 muni-
cipalities of Sydney by their long, dank,
neglected hair, and amalgamate them by
main force under a County Council, consoli-
date their debts by main force into one uni-
form stock at a low rate of interest, and
make the mayor and councillors elective all
in one lot every third year by universal
suffrage on the one - man - one - vote
principle. If that remarkable Government
ever does arise it will probably also pass a
rigid Building Act which will prohibit the
erection of any wooden structures anywhere
in the metropolitan area, make a perfect
sewerage system compulsory, give absolute
power to destroy decayed tenements, or to
repair them at the owner’s expense ; make
dirty buildings and dirty back-yards a heavily
punishable crime, and give the City Council
authority to compulsorily resume property
for the purpose of improving old streets or
making new ones, making parks or gardens,
building model dwellings, baths, municipal
laundries, and for almost any other purpose
that can tend to improve of beautify the
city. It will also appoint State auditors who
will see that the municipal authority levies
enough rates to cover its outgoings, and will
make it compulsory that every loan shall
have a sinking fund attached. Also it will
make the County Council responsible
for water-supply, sewerage, fire brigades,
street-making and repairing, sanitation, and
practically everything else in the way of
municipal government, instead of having
half-a-dozen authorities who pass the blame
on to each other, so that in the multitude of
counsellors there is insecurity and dirt.
* • * *
If Sydney is going to have a plague-scare
this is how it should take it, and if it takes
it this way much good may result. At pre-
sent, however, the idea is to cry to the 41
sets of aldermen to try and be a little
cleaner for the moment. And the 41 sets
are apathetic and ignorant (sanitary science
and a sense of architectural beauty and a
brilliant capacity for finance are rare things,
and don’t grow behind every grocery shop
or slop-clothes emporium) ; and, moreover,
all this immense number of aldermen have
no authority under the Act to do anything
of real value, except remonstrate feebly
with the taxpayer who has the biggest heap
of dirt before his door. And, in addition to
the feeble appeal to the 41 sets of aldermen,
some local authority has pasted the city all
over with placards headed “Bubonic Plague”
imploring people to try and be a little cleaner
than usual for a little while. The trouble is
that the people who most want to be made
clean are least aware of the fact.
The Rights of a Prisoner.
The N.S.W. Full Court sat last week to consider
the claim of an ex-prisoner for damages against
the Government—the claim being based on the
fact that, while in gaol, he was set to work at a
steam-engine, the gauge-glass of which burst,
thereby inflicting very serious injuries on him.
The fact that the engine was the Government’s
property was not denied. The fact that the gauge-
glass burst and that, as a consequence, the prisoner
was badly injured, was not disputed in any way.
Nor was the fact that the Government is as liable
for damages as anybody else, when it kills or
maims-anyone by its defective machinery. No
attempt was made to prove that plaintiff was
working at the engine except under the direct
orders of the official whom the Government placed
over him; prisoners are not allowed to amuse
themselves with the Government’s engine and
boiler at their own sweet will and discretion.
Nobody asserted that being scalded or crippled
or blinded by steam or broken glass was
part of the sentence, or denied that the
injury was quite outside of anything that
the law-courts had authorised to be inflicted
by way of punishment. And all these things
being admitted it certainly seems to any rational
being that a prisoner had as much right to be
compensated for injury suffered through the
Government’s defective boiler as a free man would
have if he had been injured by the Government’s
or anybody else’s defective boiler. He had the
some rights as a free man barring those rights of
which the law had expressly deprived him. The law
ordered that he should be confined and subjected
to gaol diet and gaol discipline, but it did not
order that he should be parboiled'or deprived of
an eye. Yet the Chief Justice held that plaintiff
had no case, and Judges Stephen and Cohen con-
curred.
* * * »
Here are some of the Chief Justice’s remarkable
reasons for his decision (S.M. Herald report)
I am clearly of opinion that in the public interest no
such action should he allowed, either against the Govern-
ment or against anyone connected with the gaols I can
conceive nothing more disastrous to the public interests
than to allow actions of this description. Every sentence
would be fallowed by an action—one prisoner complaining
of the quality or quantity of his food, another of his cell
being damp or cold, another that his bedding was insuffi.
cient, another that he had unduly to undergo punishment
within the gaol for alleged misconduct. In fact there
would be no end to the matters which would give rise to
actions against the authorities, and these cases would
have to be determined by juries, many of whom, if of
opinion that the prisoner had suffered some injury or in-
convenience, would award damages against the Govern-
ment, or the Comptroller-General of Prisons, or perchance
the governor of the gaol, thus in effect taking the
management of our gaols out of the hands of skilled
officials, some of whom have given much anxious thought
to the question of how best to manage prisons, not
merely for the safe custody of prisoners, but for their
well-being on their discharge, and replacing this manage-
ment by the uncertain, unstable, and unskilled manage-
ment of the jury-box. It is obvious to me that public
officers connected with the gaols of the colony could not
discharge their duty freely if the Government and they
themselves were not protected by a positive rule of law
from being harassed by action, or, what is perhaps
more important, the fear of action in respect of the mode
in which they discharged the duties imposed upon them.
I see that infinite mischief and much injury to the public
interest must ensue were such action held maintainable,
and for this reason I hold that this action is opposed to
public policy and cannot be allowed. Judgment upon
this demurrer must accordingly pass for the defendant.
If the plaintiff had suffered injury while confined in gaoi
as a convict, through the negligence of a Government
servant, and without any fault on his part, he surely is
not without redress. There is no Government that would
not, under the circumstances, amply compensate him for
any injury suffered. The management of the gaols of
these colonies is conducted on humane principles, and I
am thoroughly convinced that no prisoner ever suffers
any wrong, without his obtaining full redress, as full and
as ample as he should expect to receive from the hands of
a jury.
* * * *
And this is Judge Cohen on the same subject:
I have come to the conclusion that this action cannot be
supported. It must be conceded that there is one broad
principle underlying this demurrer —viz., that if it be
overruled a prisoner may have an action for any tortious
act injurious to his person committed by any gaol official
when in the discharge of his disciplinary duty, whether
the element of danger as averred in the second count be
present or not. See what this would lead to. . . . These
confinees, in the very nature of things, represent the
worst and most violent sections of society. Once let dis-
affection or defiance, horn of the knowledge that a
prisoner can bring an action—whether well or ill-founded
—against a gaol official or the Government get a foothold,
and the firm control so vitally essential in prison life will
be lost, and the prisons will be ruled by the prisoners
quite as much as, if not more than, by the duly ap-
pointed authorities, with a disastrous result that can be
too easily imagined. Oftentimes in cases of violence
or threatened outbreaks of violence on the part of
prisoners, warders are called upon to act suddenly, with-
out time for lengthy deliberation as to the most expe-
dient course to pursue. In such an event it may be that
force would be used to place in his cell a confinee who
is in no way concerned in the actual or threatened out-
break, but'is mistakenly thought to be so. In the effort
to suppress the actual or threatened disorder it may also
happen that the confinee is bodily’ injured. If in such a
case he could even bring his action for assault and bat-
tery against the Government or gaol officials, though
he fail in it, how could it be expected that warders
would act on the spur of the moment or use any degree
of force, however necessary it might be for the preserva-
tion of order ? Discontented prisoners might, indeed
would be, encouraged to bring actions on the allegation
that their food was unfit for consumption, that their cells
were badly ventilated or otherwise unfit for occupation,
that insufficient bedding or unsuitable clothing was sup-
plied to them, that they were compelled to take too much
exercise, or do too much hard work, in consequence of
which they suffered in health ; and a hundred other pre-
texts might be put forward by them as grounds for
harassing the authorities in like manner.
This is indeed strange logic. The law puts a man
in prison. It makes him subject to the gaol regu-
lations, which provide that he shall be djimped into
the cell, damp or otherwise, that the law provides,
supplied with the food that the law provides, put to
the work or exercise that the legal gaol regulations
allow, shall put up with the clothes and bedding
that the regulations allow, and shall be suppressed
as the regulations allow—and they allow very
wide latitude—if he mutinies. And the N.S.W.
Hull Court holds that unless he is also deprived of
all redress for any wrong, injury and violence that
the law doesn’t allow, therefore he will get a right
of action for any restraint or discipline or neces-
sary violence that the law does allow, and there
will be chaos. The Chief Justice alleges in so
many words that no action must lie against “ the
Government or against any one connected with
the gaols ” under any circumstances. By the
C.J.’s astounding, inhumane and— The Bulletin
dares to assert —utterly illegal ruling a prisoner
sentenced to a short term in gaol for a small
offence may be starved, maimed, mutilated or
murdered with absolute impunity and no civil
action can be sustained against the Government or
against any one in the gaol. He may be
kicked and throttled and jumped on for mere
sport by brutal warders. He may be illegally
deprived of the food which the legal regulations
allow him. He is put at the absolute mercy of
anybody and everybody. The Full Court says
that it is necessary to grant the Government and
everyone connected with the gaol, down to the
meanest, most ignorant and most brutal warder,
absolute immunity against legal proceedings for
any grossly illegal act committed on a prisoner,
because if they are not granted absolute immunity
for illegal acts they will probably be prosecuted
for doing legal ones. If any more monstrous
doctrine was ever announced from the Bench
during recent years in any English-speaking
country, the address of that country is unknown
at this office.
* • * •
There was a time in England when the keeper
of a private madhouse stood on the level of a god
and higher than royalty. The law made him free
from prosecution whether he starved, maimed,
flogged, kicked, chained or murdered his patients
—whether he committed rape on girl patients—
whether he confined deranged subjects naked in
cellars of perpetual darkness, hung up w’omen by
the hair, drenched them in icy water in winter
time, or perpetrated any horrors whatever upon
them. The reason assigned was that, but for this
immunity, he would be worried with ceaseless
actions at law by discharged patients who had
delusions about ill-treatment, that it was necessary
to give him wide latitude because the mad were a
difficult race to deal with, that in any case keepers
of madhouses were humane gentlemen who could
be trusted, and their underlings, being appointed
by these humane gentlemen, must be reliable and
carefully-selected, and they couldn’t do their work
properly if they were in constant fear of legal
actions to follow. In short, the old English law-


makers of fifty years ago reasoned just as the
N.S.W. Full Court, being fifty years behind the
time, reasons now in a similar case, and the results
were too horrible for description.
* * * *
What is the good of making stringent gaol regu-
lations about the treatment of prisoners it the
N.S.W. court lays it down that they may be
treated with any brutality or neglect, or injured
in any way, and that they have no legal remedy .
What possible use is there in the law-courts Pass-
ing sentence of “one month’s imprisonment it
the sentence really means “that you shall be
imprisoned for one month %nd injured in any way
not even short of murder with absolute impunity
by the gaol officials if they feel so inclined .'
Why arc there gaol regulations at all if gaol
officials are so very little below the angels that
they can safely be guaranteed against legal lia-
bility for all their acts, it being quite certain that
they won’t abuse their authority in any way.
And what good is there in the silly hypocrisy ot
pretending that “no prisoner ever suffers any
wrong -without getting full redress,” when the
N.S.W. Government offered Buttner a miserable
£5O as compensation for being sentenced to death
by mistake, imprisoned for over two months
(nearly three weeks thereof in irons and m the
condemned-cell) by mistake, and for the loss of his
business and the expenditure of over £lOO m Ins
defence—all these wrongs being caused by the
State’s grievous blundering and callous neglect to
make enquiry. And the hypocrisy is especially
silly, in view of the fact that the case before the
court arose through the flat refusal of redress to a
maimed and injured prisoner. In any case, the
country can’t get angels to act as turnkeys and
gaol-fioggers and the like for about £2 a week •
less than the remuneration (which includes
rations) of the bushmen sent to shoot the Boers.
Turnkeys and gaolers are more likely than not
to be a hard and brutal class —about the last to be
entrusted with the absolute power with which
N.S.W. Full Court seeks to endbw them. Their
work isn’t the kind that is likely to attract
humane and educated men. And if the N.S.W.
prison system is so kindly and humane and per-
fect as Chief-Justice Barley alleges, it doesnt
need to crawl in darkness, and be guaranteed
against its evil deeds coming to light.
* * * *
If it is necessary, as the Full Court declares, to
secure the State in its capacity as a gaoler, and to
secure all its gaol servants, from liability when
they do a wrong to a prisoner, lest they should be
harassed by actions when they do no wrong, then
it is equally necessary to secure the State in its
capacity as a rail way-owner from liability when it
does a wrong to a passenger lest it be harassed by
actions when it does no wrong. It is likewise
necessary to enact that no man shall be liable
at law when he injures another, lest the
public be thereby encouraged to harass him
with speculative actions when he doesn’t injure
another. The Full Court’s judgment is, in every
respect, silly, childish, illogical, incoherent, and
uncivilised. It is also cruel and shameful to the
last degree. It is legal to do certain things to
prisoners or madmen or minors, that it is not legal
to do to other people, but beyond these limits the
prisoner and the minor and the madman have
rights quite as distinct as those of anybody else.
They are not slaves, nor are they outlaws. The
N.S.W. Full Court holds that prisoners arc out-
laws. Also it holds that gaolers are small tin gods
who have privileges beyond those even of the
Queen’s representative. The Full Court’s judg-
ment is a foolish, inhuman, and outrageous doc-
trine, a relic of the old lag days, a survival of the
times of chattel slavery, and a hideous disgrace to
the community.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wanted—A Stringent Sanitation Act.
Sydney is perhaps the only civilised city on
the face of the earth where a town-clerk could
be reported as having made the following com-
plaint to a representative of its daily press :
All sorts of statements were being- circulated, and if
those people who went to the Premier and the news-
papers would onlv first of all inform the city authorities
where alleged hovels existed, a proper and systematic
examination of the quarters complained of could at once
be made. As it was, the city authorities were m the dai K
as to where the objectionable premises were.
If this be so, with reference to the italicised por-
tion of the preceding paragraph, then it has no
business to he so. If the city authorities made
any sort of “ proper and systematic examination
of the city under their sanitary control, then they
could not possibly be “ in the dark as' to -}”'® re
the objectionable premises were. ihe Water
and Sewerage Board manages things dinerenti).
It has a map whereon are indicated all obstacles
and difficulties of grade and locality, and its
engineers can see at a glance the nature ot
the work necessary in the carrying out or
repairs and the making of connections and
extensions. It shows gross neglect and absolute
incompetence on the part of the city authorities
that they should be indebted to casual complain-
ants for the information that parts of the metro-
polis are notoriously insanitary. What is urgently
wanted is a stringent Sanitation Act, one of the
most rigid clauses of which should be the period
ical registration of the life-history of every house,
shop, factory and warehouse ; its date of erection ;
the date of the installation of everyone of its
sanitary adjuncts and conveniences; and the
record of every death —the nature and cause
thereof. It should, moreover, be compulsory upon
the landlord to submit to every intending tenant
the officially-certified life-history of the premises
and to put him in full possession of all cases of
sickness connected witli the place proposed to be
rented. At a glance it might then be seen by the
intending lessee whether his desired residence or
place of business was fit to be lived or worked m.
The map of a district, or of a block, should show
by a process of coloration the absolute recorded
health and mortality for a distinct series of years ;
and a method of cross-hatching on the ground-plan
of the chart would show the nature of the soil
built upon—whether it were rock, sand, clay, or
made-ground. The adoption of this single plause
in a stringent Sanitation Act would do more to
improve the health of the city than all the talk
and all the tinkering of a hundred years of civic
imbecility.
A Voice from Maoriland.
“ Tangata-Mata” to The Bulletin :
Had mixed ideas re wisdom of the old-age pension
system, until it became my duty as acting-postmaster m
a M.L. township to pay out the monthly dole. A more
pleasurable task has never fallen to my lot. Close
observation showed me that there were few, if any, un-
deserving* recipients, while. the utter absence of that
cringing, charity-receiving- air that distinguished them
under the old' Bumbledom method was a real treat.
Cripples, old people racked with rheumatism, bent double
with hard work and years of exposure, were at my
counter, and convinced me that King Dick’s venture in
providing charity without humiliation is a big success,
and is reaching the right class of people. How Australian
politicans can be so blind to its efficacy as an electioneer-
ing plank puzzles me. Dad gets the pension given by
Dick Seddon. Consequently self, my wife, all my brothers
and sisters, their wives and husbands, my wife’s brothers
and sisters’ husbands, etc., are going to vote for Dick,
who helps to keep dad. What could be plainer? Oh !
the country pays it, not Seddon,” remarks an Opposition
friend, “ and we are quite willing to carry on his policy.
I don’t care where it comes from ; I only know that
while you preached in a superior way about the ‘ wants
of the masses,’ Dick went to work, and has done some-
thing practical for us. We don’t feel any poorer and
dad feels richer. So Dick gets our vote, the family s
vote, and in he goes. I firmly believe that the old-age
pension had more to do with Seddon’s big triumph than
all his other measures bunched together. Overheard a
conversation during election at Tapanui that convinced
me that people are determined to look at the matter in a
proper light. Crowded meeting in pub. after Ministerial
candidate’s address. Opposition supporter holding forth
to crowd : “ Old-age pension, indeed ! I am a man ;
been farming all my life ; worked hard, saved money, and
in my old age lose everything by misfortune. I am a lit
subject for old-age pension.” (Murmurs of approval.)
Orator continues : “ Mat—there's a man, been sundown-
ing for 50 years, doing odd jobs, loafing round the
country ! Sleeping in the fields and humping a swag for
50 years. Am I to be put on a level with that man ? Yet
he gets the old-age pension.” Doubtful murmurs from
listeners until young fellow in crowd comes forward and
says “ Did you ever hump a swag and have to look for
work for 50 years?” Orator (furiously) : “ No.” “ Then
dry up ! He’s worked a d sight harder than you
have.” Cheers for Government candidate. Comeandava-
drink.
Groper Philanthropy.
Curious items from a letter signed by “J. H.
Mansfield,” and recently published in Berth
(W.A.) Western Mail
The first subject I will deal with is whether it is better
in the interests of the natives to be bound for a term of
six or twelve months, or to have such agreements done
away with. As the custom obtains at present (to begin
with native women) they are signed under agreements
witnessed by either Resident Magistrates, Justices of the
Peace persons appointed under the Act, or officers of the
police force. Not one of these is likely to witness an
agreement between employers and natives unless the
natives are willing to make such agreement, and are
under no fear, coercion, or constraint. Until lately the
Police Act was so worded that any person tampering with
or detaining another person’s native servant could be
prosecuted and fined for such offence. Fines and costs
often made up the amount to from £2O to £4O. Critics
mav say what has that to do with native girls’ agree-
ments. For their benefit or otherwise I will endeavour
to show, and, in illustration, will give a case that
happened about eight years ago in the Gascoyne dis-
trict. A young* white man took a fancy to a rather
nice-looking native girl, who was at the time en-
gaged minding lambs, and induced her to leave her
fambs and accompany him to his camp, where
he was engaged by a neighbor fencing. Well, the girl
being under agreement, the girl’s employer took out a
summons for the gay spark, and a warrant for the eloping
dusky belle, and that young Don Juan had to shell out
about £3O to get out of his troubles, and the girl was
ordered to go back to her service where she is still.
(Still there after eight years ; the “ 12 months agree-
ment ” is evidently pretty durable.— Ed. B.) If the
agreements with natives were abolished she would be
livino- in open concubinage with the white man, as scores
are at the present day. These men I speak of are a
hybrid between the station hand and the fossicker, and
they “ hawk” the girls about dressed up in boy’s pants.
Do the bishops and clergy wish to perpetuate a second
Sodom and Gomorrah in the North West of Western
Australia? If so, let them keep up the agitation against
agreements between settlers and natives. If the Govern-
ment were so ill-advised as to abolish agreements with
natives, they would be paving the way for the libertines,
who are no w only waiting for the chance of native girls’
agreements being up to entice them.
In Westralia the squatter man gets cheap labor
—practically gratis labor—by having the nigger
“apprenticed” to him for a certain term. It
differs from slavery in this way: Sambo was his
master’s property for life, and he remained on his
master’s hands to be fed and more or less clothed
even when he was too old for work. _ Also, his
master had to feed and clothe him in his infancy
when he was too young for work. The W.A.
apprentice system saves the master both these
unprofitable outlays. The W.A. nigger scrambles
for his own living till he is old enough for work.
Then he (or she) is caught and apprenticed to a
kind master at about nothing andsixpn *
The agreement is only temporary, however ana
the slave in his old age is thrown out on his own
resources again, which is a comforting h
ment for all parties Westraha is P? ° u £ of
slave system on the ground that it prevents
native girls being led astray by wandenng
white men of the swagman and prospector
description ; in this matter the Podsnap who
to the Western Mail is very fairly
representative of the W. A. Podsnap m general.
The ’Groper law doesn’t make the seduction ot
aboriginal girls a punishable offence. It doesn t
protect them to any extent that is worth a straw
against their own white boss, the squatter. Be-
fore they are “apprenticed,” or enslaved, or alter
their period of enslavement has expired, the law
takes no notice of their morals, and does nothing
in particular for their protection. During their
spell of slavery it doesn’t protect their morals
either, but it falls like Sodom and Gomorrah on
any bad man who beguiles them away and thereby
deprives the good kind boss of their services. And
it is presumably out of the ’Groper law’s anxiety
to preserve the morals of the aboriginal girl that
it compels the aboriginal man to also work for the
squatter as his “apprentice” at nothing or there-
abouts per annum —at least it doesn’t actually com-
pel him but when niggers are scarce an obliging J .1.
Is generally at hand to gaol the aboriginal lor
vagrancy till he consents, of his own free will and
quite voluntarily, to be indentured. The Wes-
tralian boss magnates have always had a great
yearning after the nigger’s soul, and m the early
days they couldn’t sleep at night for wondering
how to save the local black girl in the Altogether
from being led astray. Then it dawned on them
that the best way to save her soul was to make her
work darned hard without anything that could be
called wages, and in consequence of this discovery
their minds have been at ease ever since.
The Tasmanian Gridiron.
The Tasmanian Government is already weakling
a little over the Great Western Land Grant Kali-
way grab. The original agreement was that the
syndicate should get about a million acres (worth,
probably, £600,000 or a little more) as a bonus to
induce it to build and own a line which the State
could construct and fully equip for £600,000. In
other words, the State was to pay the whole value
of the line in land, and the co. was to own the
line. Then the co. demanded, not only that it
should thus get the line as a gift, but that the state
should also guarantee interest on £200,000 worth
of its debentures, which would probably mean a
subsidy of £BOOO a-year in addition. Clothier
Mulcahy, of the Lewis-Bird Ministry, got up to
speak on this subject the other day, but, instead
of saying briefly that the Great Western syndicate
was the most utterly shameless descendant ot the
horse-leech on record, and that he would do his
uttermost to wipe it off the face of the island, he
moaned feebly thus:
He was aware the statement he was about to make
would be unpopular in certain quarters, and might injuri-
ously affect his election. He said the northern candi-
dates almost to a man were opposed to £200,000 assist-
ance, and that it would be impossible to get the proposal
through Parliament. If the present enormous land con-
cessions were to be retained the Government would not
be prepared to support £200,000 debentures aid unless
they were assured that the company would build a, good
and substantial railway and abandon portion of their land
and other concessions.
The very latest idea is that the Tas. Government
should build £200,000 worth of the line itself, and
lease it to the co. for 30 years at £7OOO a year, and
let the co. have its £600,000 or £700,000 worth of
land as a bonus on condition that it builds the
other £400,000 worth of alleged railway. Once
more, has the Government asked its own railway-
manager whether he couldn’t see his way to build
the line and make it pay if his department got a
million-acre land-grant, and had the rents ot the
land to aid in paying working expenses and in-
terest? A recent Tasmanian correspondent,
writing to The Bulletin, shrieked with wild
mirth at the idea of the Tas. railway department
building the line in the ordinary way, and
making it pay axle-grease. But no sane person
expects the Tas. railway department to build the
line and make it pay axle-grease, or any other
grease, in the ordinary way. The gridiron syndi-
cate isn’t expected to do it, and why should the
department ? The question is: Couldn t the rail-
way department build this persistent white ele-
phant and make it pay for grease and yield 5 per
cent profit to the Treasury if it got the same land
subsidy that the co. is to get ? If the island must
have this white elephant, why not buy the pallid
beast in the cheapest possible way ?
♦
Some extracts from a soul-wail now being circu-
lated by the Long Hours crowd in Sydney:
The Early Closing Act taxes industry, reduces wages,
destroys ambition, discourages enterprise, hinders pro-
gress favors monopolies, creates discontent, increases
pauperism, multiplies insolvencies, operates unfairly,
permits sweating, interferes with liberty; it is class
legislation of an undemocratic nature ; it is contrary to
all British traditions ; it has caused the withdrawal of
considerable capital ; it has reduced the avenues of em-
ployment \ it has widened the breach between employer
and employee; it compels honest workers to become
idlers ; its operations effectually prevent industry obtain-
ing its reward ; it has caused many poor persons the loss
of lifelong savings ; it fails to protect juvenile labor (the
very intention of its patrons) ; its regulation of trade is
farcical in the extreme ; its effects on commerce are
already disastrous ; it has injured the suburbs in both
trade and property ; it has converted the city into a
dismal, lifeless camp ; it has a downward tendency in its
incidence ; it allows opportunities to certain traders
which it denies to others ; it is a law such as history
records no success ; it penalises the heart of the nation,
the artisans, the buyers and sellers ; it has put our
Glorious country back to the days of lagdom. Would it
have passed on a referendum ? Would any of its sponsors
seek to uphold it now? Would it receive approval from
any recognised thinker? Does it accord with the free
spirit of Australians ? The day of reckoning will come ;
let the cry then from our united ranks be Liberty !
“ Freedom ! ” The right to live honestly ! Liberty to
earn ! Freedom to spend ! More work ! Better pay !
Get your elector’s right at once. Use it with full force.
Drive to obscurity those who have curtailed our liberties,
stopped our progress, and blocked at every stage our best
energies.
And yet the “dismal, lifeless camp” of Sydney
looks quite as busy as in the long-hour days, and
there is no better grazing for cowsm George-street
now than there was six months ago.
On the Monday following the passing of the
Factories Act by Vic. House of Hams, the local
Chamber of Manufactures—which is mostly
Derham boss of Swallow and Ariell’s biscuit
and jam factory met to consider the circum-
stance, and the noise of its lamentation was
heard over the whole breadth of the country.
The apologists of sweaters rounded on their
alleged representatives in the House of Fat
most indecently. Said Derham:— “The Leg.
Council had made matters a great deal worse. It
would have been better for the Victorian manu-
facturers if there had been no Council. It had
been a sad and painful surprise to many to find
that the Council had sacrificed their rights.
Other members of the weepful Chamber piteously
lamented the treachery of the 48. ‘■‘■They had
been thrown over by their friends,” said John 1
Blyth, “ and the reason was that they were look-
ing to the future and were hoping to get the
support of the factory workers” —at the Federal
elections. This sort of thing is pleasant to listen
to. When the pro-sweating crowd begins to revile
its House of 48 Rich Landlords there must be signs
of material improvement about that institution.
•
“Button-Grass ” writes from Raspberry Land :
Dear Bulletin. —High time someone told the brutal
truth about the Tas. Great Western Railway fraud.
Which truth is that nobody but the promoters and a few
Hobart shopkeepers want the line, or imagine that it will
pay for axle-grease if built. A line from Hobart to the
West Coast would be the biggest white elephant this side
of Siam, as a glance at the map ought to convince any-
body. But Hobart finds that it is geographically out of
the West Coast running and is snatching at straws.
When the railway boodlers came along they found the
Hobartians ready to give them half the country if only
they could get the line made, and the boodlers
saw their chance. The West Coast has a handy port
at Strahan and another at Burnie, and is connected by
rail with both ; and, barring a gap between Burnie and
Ulverston, which will soon be connected, has railway com-
munication with the agricultural centres of the island.
But Hobart says that the West Coast trade is “ going out
of the country.” What good it would be if it remained in
the country is hard to see, as it consists of exporting ore
and bullion. If there were a dozen lines to Hobart no ore
would go there (300 miles) when it can be shipped only
30 miles' away. For similar reasons, no inward supplies
would come that way. Even the bulk of the promoters
have not any serious thought of really building the line,
but they do most sincerely hope to retain the “ conces-
sions.” It has been suggested by outsiders that the
Government should build the line. Tasmania has had
some queer Governments, but I can hardly, imagine one,
unless elected by the inmates of New Norfolk asylum, that
would shovel money away on such a preposterous scheme
as this. Read general-manager Back’s report on it ! But
still the fight goes on. Hobart is dead, but refuses to be
buried. Hence these crows.
♦ S
Sydney’s northern suburbs are going to hold a
conference with a view to hurrying on the con-
struction of the North Shore Bridge. By way of
getting right down to business—how much a year
for how many years are the northern suburbs pro-
pared to pay towards the bridge, and how much
is Sydney prepared to pay, and then will Premier
Lyne pay the balance out of revenue ? Or will
Lyne pay it all out of revenue ? The whole lot
wouldn’t cost more than the Transvaal con-
tingents, and Lyne says he is going to pay
for them out of revenue. Well, let him pay
them this year, and pay for the North Shore
Bridge by two instalments in the two succeeding
years. Surely that is simple enough If N .S. W.
can pay £500,000 out of revenue for killing Boers
it can surely pay as much for building bridges.
Bridges are more useful than dead Boers. An
as the Lyne Government says proudly that the
war-bill can be paid with ease, then it cant
possibly say that there is any difficulty about
dealing with the bridge bill afterwards.
*
Nine years ago The Bulletin reprinted from the
Australasian Builders’and Contractors news
a paragraph predicting an outbreak of the Black
Death” in Sydney through the neglect of property-
owners to efficiently connect their premises with
the sewers. Instances were given of excreta
bubbling up into baths; of buildings where the
sewage was discharged into back lanes, and such
like horrors that would have disgraced a mediaeval
village. Sydney dailies took no notice of the
scandal and the good old policy of “do nothing
seems to have gone on till now, as Dr. Mailler
Kendall, of Sydney Water and Sewerage
Board, reported last week that only one m
20 of the sewer - connections of Sydney was
effective. Last week John Barlow, F.8.1.L.A.,
president of N.S.W. Institute of Architects,
scathingly denounced the insanitary condition of
Sydney, and alluded to the silence of the daily
papers when the matter was first made public
10 years ago. It is unnecessary to state, however,
that the good old Sydney sup-press was again true
to its instincts, and carefully bowdlensed Mr.
Barlow’s speech, which, however, the. bydney
public will have an opportunity of reading, as it
is now being printed for circulation m pamphlet
form. At the meeting addressed by Mr. Barlow,
Mr. Clarence Backhouse, another prominent
architect, stated that, for five successive years, a
certain wealthy property-owner m Sydney had
been served with notice to connect his buildings
with the sewers, but the work had not yet been
done.
■ ♦
Apropos The Bulletin’s inquiry whether it
wasn’t about time Broken Hill kicked once more
against the Silverton Tramway monopoly, with its
40 per cent, annual divs., a correspondent formerly
up there writes:
Broken Hill is too tired to kick any more. The fact is
that the town isn’t directly interested in kicking— i.e., to
any extent worth talking about. It is mainly concerned
about the tariff for eatables and drinkables, especially
drinkables, and the co. has got that down pretty fine. If
it carried Broken Hill’s tinned dog and sardines (Btoken
Hill is still a “whale’’for tinned stuff) for nothing, it
would have to buv 24 tins to save the price of one long
beer ; and that wouldn’t pay. The mines might kick—
that is to say, the directors. They might—if they en-
ioyed kicking themselves ; for all the big Tramway men
are mines men to.o. The only other people who might kick
are the political Labor people ; and they have done it once
or twice. But every Govt, gets behind a report made
by the Railway Commissioners that possibly an opposition
line wouldn’t pay, and, anyhow, that it wouldn t be fair
to compete with this co. seeing that it has a Bill. Which
is about as sensible as saying that if the authorities issue
one cab-license in a town, a second should never be
issued—if the town cannot all crowd into the one cab, so
much the worse for the town. Unfortunately, W. J.
Lyne is alleged to have contracted this stupid idea. Still,
the honest politician who wants to go straight may easily
“ fall in.” He is shown rates for 35 miles on the Govt,
lines and the S.T. Co. line ; and the latter is pretty often
the lowest. But it is not what the Govt, charges for 35
miles that they should find out; it is, instead, the differ-
ence between the charge for 300 and for 335 miles. That
is all that Broken Hill ought to pay—and it pays about
four times that much, on the average. Hence that 40
per cent.
Westralia is in mourning over its population
figures. The end-of-’99 estimate was 172,000,
which is only 1000 gain on the ’9B figures; and the
legitimate infant ought to have accounted for
about that much. By reason, therefore, of the
large number of infants who decline to be born
and the still larger number of older persons who
aren’t going there just now, the 200,000 with
which it was confidently predicted the new cen-
tury would open is plainly impossible. For there is
not much hope of an early revival; in fact, Wes-
tralian prospects are not at all dazzling just now.
A hundred mines report the easily - handled
oxidised ores exhausted or nearly so ; and, spite
of all the cocksureness of the past 18 months, the
metallurgists are still only groping after satisfac-
tory processes for treating the sulphide ores. Nor
is this sulphide treatment merely one problem ; in
fact, as these ores are as full of variations as a Big-
john policy, nearly every mine has to work out its
own salvation. When the Broken Hill co’s reached
this line between the rich and free oxidised ores
and the rich but intractable sulphides they made
a diplomatic diversion by charging the miners
with being loafers, and thereupon forcing a strike.
The Westralian co’s, knowing perhaps the almost
unequalled scarcity of miners, seem to incline tp
The Fly in the Ointment.
When the great Creator fashioned us, and saw
that we were good,
He commissioned us to dominate the planet as it
stood ;
Yet His ordinance meets denial still, and pease
remains unknown,
For the Boer is always with us, calling certain
lands his own.
But the Lord has given us grace to scent a Good
Thing from afar—
Are we not ouf brother’s keeper ? Most assuredly
we are !
So we seek to bear his burden, and benignly take
him in,
Though he fight like forty devils in his ignorance
and sin.
Once the Boers of Athens met us on the veldt of
Marathon;
Where they fired upon our ambulance, and conse-
quently won,
And the Maccabean Dutchmen, by their sniping
tactics mean,
Smote our absent-minded beggars round Jerusa-
lemfontein.
The commandoes of Arminius denied us land or
loot;
Not to speak of that old dopper, Oom Bruce, of
Bannockspruit.
At Sempachstrom, at Gransonkop, we met the
laagered Swiss,
And they mowed us by the acre, through their
white-flag artifice.
O the countless tons of Tommies, O the money-
worth of tools,
We have spent to prove our doetrine that the B g
Battalion rules !
Yet the fro ward Boer confronts us still, in dirt
and Scripture strong;
While our dividends evaporate—How long ? O
Lord ! how long ?
Let us beg the workman’s shilling, let us smell
our hats in prayer,
For the swift and lasting triumph of the multi-
millionaire.
Let us reap the fields we sowed not, gather where
we have not strawed,
Since your wily operator is the noblest work of
God.
Bravely sings the long-hair’d Alfred, “ Forward!
forward let us range ! . .
Let the great world spin for ever down the ringing
grooves of ‘ Change’!” .
O be sure the Good Time Coming shall achieve its
glorious birth
When the patriot owns his blunder, and the bood-
ler owns the earth !
Victoria, March 6.
TOM COLLINS.


- / j. i coS
SSSSS 2Sec
- fcs
UO ►*- o C cn V*
g§S3S8E?K
Cl Crf> O W- O) tv. tO vj
Premiums.
5- r In
£ §? 2 -/> jo & a
O ♦*• to :r **• yo C:—
Interest,
Fees, Ac.
M tb
re «£• d 5c®o —
rf* oc p m *> p* p 27*
V-1-0 O t "r "p a- >:
*- to to GO S- C OCr*
Total In*
come.
*- : : 1 : r ? — M‘
*-* X d S* -I L-w -"• **
VOtPM 05 CO CO **-
Total Out-
goings.
to
j%Z££ 2SS ~ £
sWiWifs
Added to
Funds.
1
Total in-
come.
C Uii: ig.
I>e(jreci-
al.ion
written
o(T.
Ex-
penses.
Added to
li'ands.
1892
£109,(13/3
£11.003
£229
£73.890
£24.4W
1893
24,532
241
60,121
21.7i8
1894
* 128.998
32.552
6743
77,043
10/KU
1895
133.104
61,136
274
71,402
10.603
ISM
146,647
60.302
209
74.361
11.055
1897
159.144
70 022
m
83,637
167
1808
150.194
61,567
470
78,434
26/>53
1899
ioft,im
53.125
499
92,012
19,278
THE aXHE-OT POLICY OF
Tbe|M<itOal Life li)SOraijce Co. of New York
Specifies the. amount of Surrender Value at the end of each year, the amount obtainable
on Loan at 5 per cent., the amount of paid-up insurance, and the Extended Term of
full insurance.
For further information apply to Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia,
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
0
THE TRANSVAAL WAR l
The PREMO CAMERA
18 IN THE FRONT RANK
OF HAND CAMERAS,
AND GAN T BE BEATEN.
Price, 255. to £2O.
AG2NTS —
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD
■ SYDNEY. ’
260 Collins-st., Melbourne. 81 Queen-st., Brisbane. C 5 Rundle-st., Adelaide.
The Clyde Engineering Coy. [td.
MANUFACTURERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF HORIZONTAL AND TRACTION
ENGINES
For WINDING, HAULAGE, &0., from 2-h.p. to 1000-h.p.
at®!
„ r- , _ “ ‘ 'V,
. I '- i sip Sgispl
m -'IsSF ■' w *
iIK?
. * :L ; i zy shi&ff'.
i..,:
m§ m
Mils
e *•
..: . ■ • " ■-
*.* 'A
make sacrifices of their managers instead. The
meaning in either case is the same—reduced profits
or, for some time, no profits at all. Once Groper-
dom would have taken a malicious pleasure in
watching the goldfields marking time, if not
actually retreating; but now it is too terribly
anxious about the apples and the wheat it was
going to supply them with to harbor such thoughts.
Advantage is consequently being taken of Groper-
dom’s terror to urge the erection of more State
batteries ; for it is said there are thousands of tons
of stone awaiting treatment on the outside fields.
Which is quite true ; also, it is quite true (this by
way of the generally necessary lump of ice on the
head) that there are a score or so of private
batteries now idl§ in districts which, until they
got those tell-tales, were “only awaiting crush-
ing-power to pay big dividends.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Youth.”
Royal “ The Jewess.”
Lyceum. “ Defender of the Faith."
Criterion Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Little Red Riding’ Hood.”
Theatre Royal “ Fun on the Bristol.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra “ The Three Musketeers.”
Everything that a great, hot, pleased audi-
ence —an audience that spared no perspiration in
a good cause—could do to made “Magda’’look
like a great play was done at Sydney Royal on
Saturday night. And when the audience had
finished doing it with all its might, “Magda”
wasn’t a great play after all. It was written by
a moderately great man, and it contains an
imposing tragic woman who overshadows all
other characters, and Bernhardt, Duse, and
other _ great artists seized upon it because of
the said woman, and everything that Bernhardt
and Duse take hold of is supposed to be great—
and that seems to be about all. “ Magda ”is the
story of a woman with a Past —the same invariable
Past. There is only one kind of Past for a woman,
though many kinds of women have it. Magda
rose in insurrection against a stuffy German
middle-class home—the kind that is always liable
to have a horse-hair sofa in it—and a barrel-
shaped military parent, because the latter wanted
her to marry an oppressively-good, clean-shaved
shepherd. So she went away and had a Past and
a perfectly ordinary baby. Then her accomplice
in the baby left her, and through much woe and
hunger she worked herself up to be a famous
singer. And in her pride and her glory she hap-
pened back to the old home where she had been a
blank for 12 years. The atmosphere was still
there and she brought insurrection into it. The
honorable barrel-shaped parent wanted her affi-
davit before a J.P. that she had been pure, and
Bhe refused to furnish the document. Her angular
aunt was shocked. Her stereotyped mother was
shocked in moderation. Everybody was glad and
more or less shocked, except her sister, who was
only glad. The kindly pastor addressed the
gorgeous rebel as if she was a large public meeting.
The other author of the baby met Magda—he had
developed into a prim, commonplace lawyer—and
offered to forgive her, and marry her, and take her
away from the stage and from her fame and her
huge salary, and make her the dull-brown mistress
of another stuffy house, and put the child away
out of sight somewhere.
* • * *
And when the broad parent heard of the
Past, he insisted on his splendid daughter accept-
ing the offer and becoming stout and stuffy and
respectable, and when she wouldn’t he—being
very weak and old and cross—fell down dead with
plain, commonplace, respectable, German horror.
The story ends there, but presumably the family
buried the old man decently, and suppressed his
stupid, honest bones 'with a big monument, and
went on being a crowd of plain, drab Philistines
who went to bed early, and had cold mutton
for dinner. The dialogue is bright, and the
writer makes good use of his rather scant and ordi-
nary material, but he achieves no overwhelming
results. Everything in “Magda” depends on
one character, and Miss Nance O’Neil plays it
admirablv on the whole. She is a fine actress
with a handsome stage presence, and gorgeous
clothing, and a prompt stage temper which rises
in revolt against the thick moral atmosphere of
the German home. She is a success, yet the part
is one where any reasonably good actress would
make a success. And Miss O’Neil represents Magda
as a lady with an amazingly sudden temper, and
one who is calculated to needlessly upset a peace-
able, ordinary home with a china dog on the
mantelpiece. She seems calculated to chew cor-
ners off the furniture in a spirit of cold bitterness,
and to chew off more comers than the case abso-
lutely calls for.
* * * *
Most of the other people are pleasing so
for as their limitations allow. M‘Kee Rankin’s
parent is a strong, narrow-minded, bald officer,
and his rather difficult part is admirably done.
Charles Canfield is respectably colorless, with
specks of better things in between, as the man who
assisted Magda to have a Past. He might have
more specks without injuring the part. George
Becks does a very small character to perfection.
Mrs. Bracy and Miss Inez Bensusan are always
reliable, and the latter’s rendering of the small
good sister, who never even allowed herself to
think without a chaperone, is a very fine
piece of acting. Also Miss Allen has a
few Meeting appearances as a thin and
aggravating elderly relative, and as she and
the large silent Becks have the only two cheerful
parts in the sombre play it is a pity they don’t
appear oftener, As for Miss Edith Berry, she
wears the white garniture of a blameless slavey
and gets no show worth mentioning. The pastor,
who should be a rather imposing character, looks
like the only real failure of the crowd. As he
plays the part there is a dark suspicion that the
good but stagey and awkward-looking man is a
hypocrite and a fraud, and the fact that he isn’t
bowled out before the drama is over is a disap-
pointment. Something awful should be found out
regarding him, and he ought to be run out amid
the execrations of his flock.
• • • *
The present season is to be one of rapid
changes, and the “Jewess” is due at the Royal
on Saturday.
** * *
Ye old Englyshe heretic has had a rough
time of it at Sydney Lyceum all this week, and
in view of the fact that business has been very
creditable that misguided person will probably be
led to the stake for some time yet. As the heretic
isn’t grilled in public, however—you only see the
reflection of him when he becomes a shining and
incandescent light—a great deal of this prosperity
is doubtless owing to the lunatic asylum scene,
where the elderly lunatic is flogged and goes back
to his cell with great cheerful jumps, and Miss
Winton is hung up on the cross in her beautiful
white garments with the hope that her mind will
be more composed in the morning. In those days
they were evidently as anxious about the lunatic
as about the heretic, and they took more pains
about flogging one patient than they now take over
two dozen. Any individual who doesn’t worry
over anachronisms —say where the hero is
securely caged in the strongest dungeon of the
Tower, and his friends drop in casually to
see him because the door is open—can find much
to interest him in “Defender of the Faith.”
People had a Faith that they thought worth
defending in those days, and they held the kopje
of the church so vigorously that it wasn’t safe to
be out after dark unless armed with cannon. Ap-
parently the true believer with brains need want
for nothing at that time. If he did want anything
he simply entertained doubts of the spiritual
soundness of somebody who had it, and took it on
suspicion. Wherefore the true believer acquired
much property.
** * *
“ Youth ” is to reappear at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, on Saturday. There are baleful rumors
that the good old drammer has been brought up to
date and allusions to the tired-out Boer war run
into it, and as the management proudly confirms
the horrid thing in its advt., it is probably true.
A mania for bringing things up to date has seized
on this country of late; even Holy Writ has a
tendency to read, “ Now this Barrabbas was a
Boer still it was to be hoped that the hand of
the literary Goth might be withheld for this occa-
sion anyhow.
** # *
It is about time manager Rickards substi-
tuted something graceful for the bucolic ballet
that opens the Caddam Woods revels at Sydney
Criterion. Also, it would improve the show if
the long, thin lady put some gloss on her shoes.
Little Violet Bishop cannot sing very much, but
she knows how to dress, a::d reminds one of a
small butterfly, and the gods like her. Gus Franks,
the new cornerman, shakes a good leg in neat
style, and the brilliant child-performer, Fanny
Powers, improves every week. Miss Francie
Adler trills Kenningham’s song, “Oh, can it be
Love ? ” in a refined, but not ravishing, manner ;
and sundry other people waggle themselves and
do sundry other things more or less well. But the
gem of the show is Miss Carr-Glynn’s rich melody,
and that hyphenated lady is hereby authorised to
regard this paper as a brother till further notice.
** m *
The land of Australia is evidently con-
sidered excellent grounds for divorce in the pro-
fession in America. Here is plump Louise
Hepner’s New York hubby clamoring for a
divorce, because of things that happened to the
Belle of New York in Australia. Leslie is cast
for co-respondent. Leslie will be remembered as
the short, fat tenor of the co., who took the part
of the hero in the burlesque, in Melbourne, with
all the abandon of a cold pork-chop, and was cut
out in the interests of Kenningham and an in-
telligent management. Leslie appeared to be the
very last man whom any woman would want to
make a co-respondent of, but they run in all
shapes. Louise’s hubby writes like a man of
horse-sense, and sums the co. up rather neatly :
“You have become infatuated with the cheap
splendor of Leslie’s barber-shop polish.” Hubby
is a big New York wig-maker, and ought to know.
** * *
The version of “His Natural Life” that
Dampier staged again at Melb, Alexandra, last
Saturday, is too cheerfully gruesome for The
Bulletin to find fault with it. An Alexandra
audience wants all the horrors of the convict
system it can get at popular prices, and the
Damperian treatment of Marcus Clarke’s story
seems to meet the demand fairly well. Gabbett
is a voracious cannibal, who leaves no room for
doubt concerning his main object in life, which
is to lure his brother felons into the wilder-
ness and come back alone, fatter and awfiiller
than when he started. Marcus Clarke’s origi-
nal Gabbett was merely a man-eater by in-
ference, so to speak, but the burly epicure
in the drama rolls his eyes at his intended joints
and entrees, and when they plead for mercy on
the score of personal leanness, friend Gabbett
quotes Solomon’s proverb re the sweetness of the
meat that is nearest to the bone. Gabbett, armed
with an axe, seeking whom he may devour, is a
fine hearty joke at all times. At this present
time of dead feet protruding from shallow African
graves, and corpses lying hidden by the dozen m
shady nooks, the Alexandra gallery takes Gabbett
to be exceptionally droll. Also, the bare-backed
shrieker at the triangles harmonises with recent
fleshy items of news from Kaffirland, and the
assassination of Captain Maurice Frere by an absent-
minded lag serves to illustrate the fact that
Britons never would be slaves. “His Natural
Life ”is rather better mounted than acted at the
Alexandra ; in fact, the co. calls for rather warm
condemnation on its female side. And this
remark applies to the Shakespearean Friday per-
formance of “Merchant of Venice.” “Hamlet”
is to come along this Friday (10th). and mayhap
the royal misanthrope in the inky cloak will run
for more than one consecutive night.
** * *
“ Little Red Riding Hood ” is putting in
eight performances this week at the Princess’s,
from which it appears that Melbourne takes
kindly to the belated panto., and is content to
regard its doleful funny business as a Xmas enter-
tainment for the young. Legs, costumes, and
general splendour of the densely-populated show
lose nothing on acquaintance. The braw Scotch
Highlandesses with the dimpled knees, and all the
other sweet girl-warriors remain as irresistible
as usual up to now, and if the prayer of
the present writer can preserve those blessed chil-
dren of the Empire from enteric fever and quarter-
rations of muleflesh, they may consider it done.
War is a most enjoyable diversion for the specta-
tors, judging from how Carrie Moore conducts the
Battle of Elands Laagte. She simply taps a big
boulder as a signal for a big Boer to pull back the
front shutter and fire at random, and then the
triumph of the British troops terminates in an
excellent tableau.
** # *
t John F. Sheridan, in his dual capacity of
Bridget O’Brien, and the reverend shepherd who
delivers discourses on living pictures, is enjoying
a prosperous time at the Royal. Something
special is going to happen at the Royal next Satur-
day, owing to the crimson tie of kinship that
exists between Mrs. O’Brien and St. Patrick, but
the details of the grand Patrickian programme
were not quite settled at time of writing. As far
as an intelligent foreigner could discover from the
advt. the Grand Irish Night was going to conclude
with a one-act jig, or a spectacular ballet entitled
“Cead Mille Something or Other.”
** * *
Little Spry and his tuneful Austin quit
Melb. Bijou this week, but otherwise the co. will
be much the same next Saturday as last Saturday,
plus Charles Seel and Miss Maud Needham. The
damsel is described as “ fascinating ” in the pre-
liminary ad., and it goes almost without saying
that she must be so. Looking back at many years
of theatrical assurances, The Bulletin can’t dis-
cover any instance of a lady serio-comic vocalist
who was not fascinating, unless she happened to
be Phenomenal or Unrivalled.
The ages of three persons whose death-
notices appeared consecutively in a recent Sydney
D.T. issue totalled 259 years ! Respectively 80
(doctor), 87 (clergyman’s widow), and 92 (father
of Australian clergyman).
are to be handled with care in these
delirious days. At Bendigo “a very aged Scottish
lady, widow of one of the city’s most respected
and intensely loyal citizens,” showed her delight
at the relief of Ladysmith by hanging out the
only flag she had —the venerable flag of St.
Andrew. And the excited neighbourhood, which
knew it wasn’t the Union Jack, reckoned that
it must be the Boer flag, and so pelted the
poor old woman’s cottage. Also in the same
city a German hotel-keeper on the same day ran
up his country’s flag to make out that Germany
rejoiced as well as Britain —and for his sympathy
had his windows smashed and the whole premises
so battered that he had to close for repairs.
Roberts’s latest victory to date (12/3/00) is
a creditable bit of manoeuvreing and a good ex-
ample of the use of superior numbers. He brought
three divisions, total 30,000 men—against 10,000
Boers under De Wit and De La Rey. Two of the
divisions (20,000) stood in front while the third
crept round the left flank of the Boers’ line, and
made them give way to avoid being surrounded.
The yarns about “flight” and the rest are dis-
counted by Roberts’s cautious strategy. He has
not once, since he began his advance, engaged
more than half the force at his disposal. Against
Cronje he only employed six brigades, each of
which was, however, equal to Cronje’s whole
force, and even they were used with the greatest
caution.. To tell the truth, Roberts, in
using this careful method of advance furnishes the
most conclusive answer possible to the silly scribes
who gratify the vanity of a public as ignorant as
themselves by pouring cheap contempt on the
Boers. Roberts evidently does not despise his
enemy, but treats him with the utmost respect.
Roberts has all his life been a mixture of daring
and caution, and he knows that a single false step
in his present position might place him in a situa-
tion of extreme danger. If anything went wrong
behind him—and many of his generals of division
and brigade are not to be trusted —he might lose
his army. He knows that it was not the burn-
ing of Moscow or the severity of winter that
destroyed Napoleon’s army, but the negligence of
subordinate commanders, and a complication of
blunders on the part of the staff.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The N.S.W. courts’ decision in the recent Moree
hop-beer case shows more bewildering the more it is
looked at. A “regulation” under the Beer Duty Act
says that “Liquor made or sold as a substitute for beer
by any unlicensed brewer and found to contain more than
2 per cent, of proof spirit shall subject the maker of such
liquor to duties and penalties under the Beer Duty
Act of 1887.” It says nothing about licensed brewers
but it distinctly implies that an unlicensed person
may make liquor containing less than 2 per cent,
of proof spirit without paying beer duty or being com-
pelled to take out a brewer’s license. And as the law
isn’t supposed to make flesh of one and fish or other
edible substance of another, it certainly appears that a
licensed brewer should also be allowed to make hop-beer
and such-like fluids without paying duty, so long as they
contain less than 2 per cent, of proof spirit. Yet the law
hauled up licensed brewer Joseph, of Moree, and fined
him £lOO or 12 months for making hop-beer which con-
tained only 1J per cent, of proof spirit. Therefore the
law holds that a licensed brewer must pay duty on the
liquid which another man can make without paying duty,
consequently the licensed man can’t make hop-beer and
such-like drinks at all, because the duty handicaps him
out of the business. Joseph’s conviction was upset on a
side issue, bu t the Full Court maintained that this ridicu-
lous distinction between the licensed and unlicensed
brewer still holds good. The decision may have been
good law, but, if so, the law is a whole drove of wild asses.
* * * *
The Union Bank of Australia publishes, for the
half-year ended 31st August, 1899, a balance-sheet which
is distinctly better than anything it has issued during the
last three years. Some recent profits :
February, 1894 .. £44,132 February, 1897 .. £37,578
August, 1894 .. 44,676 August, 1897 .. 37,436
February, 1895 .. 37,172 February, 1898 .. 47,696
August, 1895 .. 36,063 August, 1898 .. 42,578
February, 1896 .. 37,996 February, 1899 .. 42,071
August, 1896 .. 58,837 August, 1899 .. 48,514
The earnings are at the rate of £3 17s. 7d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ funds (capital, £1,500,000;
reserve, £750,000 ; contingency fund, £250,000). A divi-
dend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum accounts for
£45,000 and the other £3514, added to previous balance of
£26,849, leaves £30,363 to be carried forward. This is the
second half-year when the 6 per cent, dividend has been
paid. For two years to February, 1891, the dividend
was 14 per cent. ; then 12 per cent, till August, 1892;
8 per cent, till August, 1893 ; 6 per cent, till August, 1894;
5 per cent, till August, 1898 ; and since then again 6 per
cent. There was a good old time 44 years ago,
when the dividend was 36 per cent., but that is only a
golden dream now and a fragment of ancient history.
Things look about as good as usual with the old bank.
The principal change is in the matter of cash and liquid
securities, which have gone up to the very high figure of
£5,834,916 —equal to over 33 per cent, on all liabilities to
the public, inscribed stock deposits included. About four
years ago the Union Bank transferred £250,000 of its
reserve to contingency account to cover estimated depre-
ciation of certain securities, but since then, it would
seem, nothing further has been done in the way of ascer-
taining the exact amount of the losses and writing them
off. The inflated values remain on one side of the
balance-sheet and the contingency reserve on the other,
and things are as they were. Which isn’t a wholly satis-
factory way of doing things.
* * * *
The Citizens’ Life Assurance Co. (Sydney) pub-
lishes a balance-sheet which, so far as concerns its ordinary
life department, is much ahead of anything the co. has
hitherto done. The principal figures, and those of pre-
vious years since 1892, are as follows :
At the beginning of 1892 the funds of the Citizens’ Com-
pany’s ordinary life branch were £8993. They have risen
in eight years to £297,559, which is a very rapid increase.
Also, it has been a very steady increase ; the premiums
and the additions made to the funds have grown larger
every year. The small expense rate is to a great extent
responsible for this. It is provided that expenses must
never rise higher than 15 per cent., and they certainly
remain there or thereabouts very regularly ; and if the 15
per cent, doesn’t cover the ordinary department’s full
share of the ex.’s, it is so much the worse for the indus-
trial department, which has to stand the rest of the out-
lay. As a result, the Citizens’ ordinary' life department is
the most cheaply-managed concern of its kind in Aus-
tralasia, the A.M.P. alone excepted.
The Industrial Insurance Department of the
Citizens’ doesn’t look so well. In the following figures,
claims, depreciation written off, and expenses are shown
separately for a sufficient reason. In most industrial in-
surance business, expenses deserve to be shown separately:
There are some interesting points about these figures. In


fj:
Added
Pro.
Tnitiin*.
Intercut.
Total
Income.
Rsperne*
to
Jt'umiy.
1891
£37,368
£1,545
£31,013
67,3l'5
£19,212
1892
a;.. 33i
0,M0
31,710
7,717
17.210
1893
36,001
6,675
!llr>7rt
8,939
10,021
lSftt
27.775
6.313
34,1.18
11,343
10,097
13,110
i«p:.
29,170
7,670
30.810
11,078
1896
81.859
7,431
30,213)
0.01)0
13,318
1897
32,815
8.3S-1
41.289
0,422
10.201
1898
36,889
8,885
10.821
10.300
12,726
1800
■10,165
0,610
O0,i 'Vf.
!1,02S
14.440
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* • * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Oo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Mr. J. A. Wallace, the pioneer of the gold-
dredging industry in Australia, holds a long stretch of the
Sandy Creek near Yackandandah and intends installing a
very large electrical plant to operate several dredges. An
order has just been placed with the Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Co., of South Melbourne, to supply high-class com-
Eound condensing engines with Corliss valve gear of 400
.p., together with boilers and fittings to operate the first
section of the plant. A duplicate plant to this will be
installed later and will work three electric dredges on a
stretch of about two miles of the creek. Each dredge
will have a capacity of about 150 cubic yards per hour.*
* * * *
Banker’s Magazine, October, 1890 : “ Since its
establishment in 1873 the Colonial Mutual has written
79,800 policies, representing nearly 25 millions of assur-
ance. It has paid to policyholders £2,148,500.*
• * * *
Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, Mining Machinery
Merchants, 506 Little Collins-street, Melbourne, report
that the Luhrig system of concentration is gradually es-
tablishing itself in the principal mills of Australia. The
latest Luhrig vanner has a large capacity, and owing to
important improvements the life of the belt, &c., is greatly
increased. Yanners and spare parts are stocked in Melb.
and prompt delivery is thus assured. A small testing
plant is available near Melbourne. Upon receipt of
necessary data, estimates for complete plants, including
batteries, rolls, trommels, jigs, classifiers, vanners, &c.,
will be proceeded with by competent engineers.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
* * * »
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that, the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* * * *
Gilfillan and M'Creery, Mining and Metallurgi-
cal Engineers, 434 Collins-street, Melbourne, have a
vacancy for a pupil in their ore-testing works. Thorough
tuition in assaying, metallurgical work, ore testing, etc.*
* » » »
The recently-floated Dottswood Freehold Gold-
Mining Co., Ravenswood, N.Q., has decided to adopt a
complete Ingersoll-Sergeant drilling equipment, and an
order has been placed with the Sydney agents, Parke and
Lacey Company, Ltd., for the necessary machines ; a five-
drill compressor, air-receiver, drills, &c. The “ Ingersoll ”
is the favorite drill throughout Queensland* the men, on
account of its superiority, frequently specifying this par-
ticular machine in their contract. It is also steadily
gaining ground elsewhere in Australia. A great number
are in use in Westralia, and more than one company,
which put in colonially-manufactured machines because
of the low price at which they were offered, has found it-
self compelled, on account of the immense expense for
repairs, to throw them out and adopt the “ Ingersoll.”*
• * * •
A lot of people are waiting summer at San
Francisco to join the rush for Cape Nome, Alaska, where
there is said to be a heavily-auriferous beach over 200
miles long. A lot of gold has already been brought down,
but from all accounts the place is only fit for Swedes,
Russians, Eskimo, Finns, and Laplanders.
A-
£ Eti-SF
Shmg\
?he
ZETZ
BMUMOS
I WE
muM.
Tip
fesITEl
q Smoke the Latest $>
mm VAN DYCK
CIGARS (ROT CHEROOTS.)
SOLD IN PACKETS OF 8 FOR 1/-
C/ C/?/?o
SLIMES!!
ONLY
Successful
Treatment
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co., London.
All particulars on application to
Hy. Markwald
11 Pitt Street,
Sydney;
178 William Street, Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
A. E. (SOLDSTEIN,
HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in tlie Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLENER,
30-36 Druitfc-st, Sydney.
every year expenses have absorbed far more, than the
total amount paid to policy-holders. In the eight years
policy-holders received £356,893 while expenses absorbed
£618,040. The income for 1899 was £9020 more than that
for 1898, and to earn this involved £14,178 more ex-
penses. In 1898 expenses were down to about 50 per cent,
of income, which was heavy enough; in 1899 they rose again
to 56 per cent. Part of this heavy bill is probably due to
the fact that the Citizens’ Co. goes in for systematically
keeping down expenses in the ordinary branch and
making it a sensationally cheap affair so far as the cost of
management is concerned, and therefore the industrial
department has to carry a large share of the general
charges, but industrial insurance business is costly
at all times.
The Citizens’ Life Assurance Co. has now total
funds of £527,642, and seeing that over £102,000 of this is
the increase of 1899 it is a very rapidly progressive affair.
It claims, and so far as the writer knows its claim is a
perfectly just one, to have done more new business last
year than any other purely Australasian office, the A.M.P.
only excepted. And there is no visible < ause for com-
plaint about the assets, except that £211,075 of the
£527,642 total funds is sunk in freehold property, which is
a very large proportion. At the end of 1898 the freehold
property item was only £128,630 so there has been a very
large increase in the amount sunk in bricks and mortar.
The Citizens’ Co. estimates future interest earnings on the
safe and commendable 3J per cent, basis. But as the
interest earnings in the ordinary department are miser-
ably low (barely £3 14s. per cent, per annum on the mean
funds) there is very little margin left (hardly enough for
safety) even on the 3) per cent, basis. The large amount
of money sunk in offices is probably responsible for this,
to some extent at least. Meanwhile the Citizens’ Co. is
growing very fast and £507,000 of policy-holders’ money is
managed entirely by the shareholders who have only
£20,000 of their own cash in the business. They appoint
the auditors. They also appoint themselves to billets in
the co., and they direct it, and they meet annually to
report to themselves that their management couldn’t
possibly be better. There are some curious features about
the proprietary life assurance business, with £20,000 paid-
up capital. In the mutual assurance business the policy-
holders are supposed to manage things, but as not one in
100 interferes, things are just about the same as in the
proprietary system after all.
* * • *
Sydney and Suburban Mutual Permanent
Building and Land Investment Association, for the year
ended 31st January, 1900, made a loss of £7826 (£6544
through sales of property below book-value and in similar
ways, and £1282 through the inability of £2651 of income
to cover £3933 of interest and working expenses). The
Sydney and Suburban has been making nothing but losses
since 1891, and its situation is now one of great grief.
On paper, however, things look like this: —
Liabilities. Assets.
Paid-up capital .. £98,603 Various assets
Various reserves .. 5,502 (paper-value) ..£127,490
Deposits .. .. 68,030 Deficit 75,083
Other liabilities .. 40,438
£202,573 £202,573
On paper, therefore, there is £29,022 of the shareholders’
funds still intact, but this paper balance is vanishing very
fast. And as the £127,490 of alleged assets only yielded
last year £2635 net, equal to about £2 2s. per cent, per
annum, and, further, as £13,952 of properties sold only
realised £B3lO net, it appears as if the alleged t'127,490
worth of assets weren’t good for more than £70,000 at the
outside. At this rate there is nothing left for the share-
holders, and the depositors may get about Bs. in the
£ on the amounts still due to them—if they have good
fortune and the assets aren’t too extensively eaten up by
the regular annual deficit. The deposits in 1891 were
£156,674, and they are now down to £58,000, so even if the
remnant only pans out for ss. in the £, the depositors will
come off better than many people who have cheer-
fully taken their money into an office and left it with a
glad heart on the big shiny counter.
» • » *
Some figures of the City Mutual Life Assurance
Society (Sydney) :
The progress isn’t very rapid, still every year since ’92 has
shown an increased income, and the assurance fund now
totals £191,366. And there is one good reason for suppos-
ing that the assets are genuine : The City Mutual writes
off losses and depreciation every year, instead of leaving
these drawbacks to accumulate till the actuarial investi-
gation, and then having a huge clean-up, or following the
still more dubious practice of keeping the inflated values
on one side of the balance-sheet, with a reserve against
them on the other. The writing-off this year is £l5Bl. The
statement of assets now comesoutin an improved form,giv-
ingstill more complete details, and the only item that looks
doubtful or objectionable is the always-dubious and
always-disputed “deferred instalments of annual pre-
miums £6785.” In the City Mutual’s case, however, this
is a matter of little importance, for the system of includ-
ing deferred instalments as assets has been wisely
abandoned so far as new policies are concerned, and as
regards old policies the item is being steadily written off.
At the end of ’97 it stood at £7518, so £733 has been
written off in two years. This makes the assets look
smaller, but it makes them no smaller in reality, and
assets about which there is any doubt are better omitted.
The expenses are still very heavy—much too
heavy—being 22 per cent, on total income, or about 27J
per cent, on premiums. At the same time, they are less
than in any previous year for a long while back, and the
reduction is going on very steadily, though not very fast.
And, on the other hand, the City Mutual earns the
remarkably high rate of £5 4s. 4d. per cent, per annum on
its funds. This is the highest rate earned by any
life office in Australasia, and it does a good deal to
counterbalance the heavy expenses. Careful investment
of the funds, the fact that it is easier to find good invest-
ments for a small fund than for a large one, and the sys-
tematic writing-off of losses probably account for the
gratifying £5 4s. 4d. Altogether the City Mutual’s
balance-sheet for ’99 is a very healthy and encouraging
document.
* * * •
Curious to find Sydney Daily Telegraph’s
share-list solemnly declaring, day after day, that the
Commercial Bank of Australia paid a dividend of thirty-
three per cent, on its preference shares last January.
Such a thing, in these lean and spectral times of 3 per
cent., looks like irony.
’ * * * *
Newcastle (N.S.W.) Coal-mining Co. mentions
sadly that the expense involved in weighing the coal (as
provided D, ..Mol »nd neMoo. "CSI
SEMES’® £ w
°»“* °^ et “SEE ili J W
December, in IM7 «*> «“
S,E IW a SS Sag* s
K™ .as sag« g
June, 1895 .. 3767 June, 1899 •• 86J9
December, 1895 6160 December 18M 7263
The co pavs a comfortable dividend at the rate of 10 per
cent per annum (£5000) ; adds £2OOO to renewal account,
balance of £263. The dividend hasn’t been
higher than 10 per cent, for many yeare, whUe it has been
„ e i nw on k T-jpy cen t And considering" that the hair year
tus 1 ” dosed P has been the best, bar three, out of the last 16
half-yearly periods the injured institution appears to be
getting along pretty well. „
Shareholders in B.H. Water Supply Ltd. begin
to feel sorry. The directors had an offer of £300,000 from
the local municipal council for the works and rights, but
the shareholders rejected it, and asked for £350,000. Ihe
directors, it is said were so sure that the offer would be
accepted that they did not use the proxies they held.
No sooner had the offer been thus rejected than the local
council passed into the power of the Labor-party ; and
now when the eo. meekly calls round and says that it
thinks it might be pressed to take £300,000 after all, the
party in power coldly replies that it isn’t going to pay
£300,000 for works which are not worth more than
£lOO,OOO, apart from the monopoly the co. has held, since
it can easily end the monopoly by building works of its
own. Also, it points out that, if it needs these particular
works very badly, it can get them (or the Govt, can,
which amounts to much the same thing) by giving six
months’ notice, and paying the value of the works and
rights without reference to past or prospective profits
at all. And on top of that comes the announce-
ment that the B.H. mining co’s, which use two-thirds
or more of all the water the co. supplies, are tired of pay-
ing ss. per lOOOgals. and are going to build works of their
own. Whether the co’s Will go through with the business
or not is, of course, as yet uncertain ; the two things that
are quite sure are that they have the means ready at a
moment’s notice, and that they will only be stopped by
the water co. making very big concessions indeed. So
the water co. stands to lose either way. A co. doesn’t
often get the chance that came the way of this one ; and
its folly in deliberately “passing” raises the question
whether it is safe to be let off the chain.
* * » *
Silver ton Tramway Co. gets along as well as
could be expected in these dull times. Its capital is
£197,806 ; and by strict attention to business it managed
to pay £79,122 Bs. in divs. last year, to add £lO,OOO to re-
serve, and to carry forward £26,931 6s. 7d. —the shillings
and pence, being matters of the utmost importance in
connection with a co. whose profits are so small, are not
omitted. Unhappily, as the chairman explained at the
half-yearly meeting (the meetings are held half-yearly
though the accounts are made up only annually), the pro-
fits weren’t quite up to the mark, because the co. had had
to buy a number of sleepers; but as this expenditure
shouldn’t occur again the directors hoped for forgiveness.
Forgiveness granted accordingly, and directors re-elected.
Presumably in view of a threatened Govt, line to connect
Broken Hill with the S. Aus. railways—this co. has a
monopoly of the connection so far—the chairman an-
nounced that of 1241 shareholders no less than 550 were
ladies ; and thus at a very early stage a beginning is made
with the “ poor widow ” appeal.
» * • *
At Mt. David gold-mine (N.S.W.) over 30 men
were lately knocked off. Previous country soft enough
for single-handed work ; but writer hears that some re-
cent 2ft. 6in. holes blunted over 30 drills. At present they
are driving to cut the reef. Query : Will the reef be as
good in this hard formation f
The reconstructed Cobar Gold Mines, Ltd.
(which some years ago took in hand the old Fort Bourke
mine) held its second general meeting in London at the
end of Jan., when the chairman said the shareholders
ought soon to reap the reward of their patience. The co.
has spent over £50,000 in equipping its mine, which is now
fitted with an inexhaustible dam, a 100-head mill, double
cyanide plant of 5000 tons monthly capacity, 10-drill air-
compressor plant, and electric light. All liabilities have
been discharged and the mine is now yielding £4OOO or
over worth of gold monthly, which gives a substantial
profit, quite apart from the big supply' of valuable slimes
that is being accumulated. The mine is a huge quarry of
pay ore with occasional rich streaks. It was stated at
the meeting that “ the whole cost of ore-treatment, from
start to finish, was between 9s. and 10s. per ton, which
would be reduced later. There was nothing in the Rand
being treated under 18s. 6d. for mining, milling and
cyaniding. And yet at Cobar they were working under
10s. including driving. The shaft-sinking only cost £3 10s.
a foot, which was a very moderate price. They were, in-
deed, working at about 50 per cent, of the lowest cost on
the Rand, thanks to the huge bodies of ore they pos-
sessed.” Which opens up a fine prospect for Cobar, where
on the same lode there is room for several similar good
properties to be worked on a like scale.
Mount Drysdale shares are now negotiable in
Sydney at about £l. Once bitten, twice shy ! What
price would this scrip bring but for the fact that (like
nearly all other Cobar ventures) the mine’s operations are
usually enveloped in a mirk as dark as the lungs of mid-
night. Last Mt. Drysdale return, 22070 z. gold from 134
tons, including specimens. By the way, what is the
Great Western doing (shares lately quoted on Sydney
Exchange from 3d. buyers to 2s sellers). The Young
Australian is another fearsome mystery, so far as the
Sydney public is concerned.
* • * •
The great shaft of the Sydney Harbor Colliery
Co., at Balmain, is now down 1800 ft., and 100 ft. a month
is being sunk. Within little over a year the co. hopes to
Strike the 10ft. 7in. coal seam of which it is in quest—at a
depth of over 3000 ft.
* * * *
The success of an Australian-born and largely
Australian-trained engineer in securing the general
managership of the B.H. Junction has been followed by
the success of L. Grayson, one of the earliest students of
Adelaide School of Mines, in getting the assistant-general
management of the still bigger Block 10. General-mana-
ger Delprat, of the B.H. Prop., a Dutch engineer of almost
world-wide training, has been so struck with the quality
of the S.A. School of Mines graduates that he has quitted
his original intention of sending Delprat, jun., to a Euro-
pean school, and has passed him on to the Adelaide in-
structors instead.
* * * *
Of the 960,000 B.H. Prop, shares, 628,000 are
now held in Europe and 332,000 in Australia—more than
half the latter in S.A.
* * * *
“Mainshaft”: That man is a pessimist (and
something more) who writes to you about the Waverley
tin-mine. So far from only employing enough men to
hold the ground the Waverley Tin-mines, Ltd. is working
full-handed erecting a battery and concentrating plant,
and will start crushing by May. The lodes apparently do
go down and on several of the Waverley leases sinking is
still proceeding, though the quantity of ore already
proved is well ahead of mill requirements for a year to
come.
* * * ■»
Q. mining items. Rush at Dead-man’s Secret,
Hear Coen, pulsating feebly ; warden sent to report says,
“ Small potatoes, and few on a hill.” Croydon district
broken out in new phase. Rich tin deposits found 30
miles from town by old prospectors ; warden says find a
valuable one. Oh. Towers market dead as Pharaoh ;
Mills United, Queen’s Cross, Papuans, Kelly’s Blocks have
all slumped. Brilliant crushed 1070 tons for 13460 z. ;
usual 3d. div. Victorias dying hard ; sellers, 2s. 9d. Mt.
Morgan pays usual 7d. div. Gympie market still m the
place between two hills. No. 7 S. Lady Mary and 1 N.
Oriental for the severalth time report “ fair gold in
breaking down the reef,” and the scrip gambols up and
down, mostly down. 4 N. Phoenix, good old slave, crushed
187 tons for 6460 z. and a 9d. div. S. Glamnire and Monk-
land 1176 tons for 5750 z., 3d. div. Some sanguine Glad-
stonites say they have got a permanent coal-field up that
v.ay. * ' » » ' *'
Croydon notes: Maiden crushing from Vile’s
Block gave 816 oz. gold, worth £2 15s. per oz., from 285
tons. Co. will pay aoout Is. 6d. div. out of crushing, and
carry forward nearly £lOOO. Well managed mine ; ditto
co. Cuthbert’s No. 5 South Golden Gate now crushing
something like 3000 tons. Cashman’s 3 and 4 South con-
tinue crushing and paying divs. Strong syndicate, sub-
sidised by Govt., are soon starting to put down diamond-
drill bores to prospect for Iguana reef —a very rich lode,
cut out by a slide. Prospecting is being carried on at
True Blue and Golden Gate by Bull co.’s, with favorable
indications. Croydon field generally hopeful, prospects
bright. Local Stock Exchange practically dead—public
didn’t have too much confidence in the affair, and the
members had little in each other. Hence at present not
exactly dead, but gone before.
* * * *
“Miner”: The old Ravenswood goldfield
begins to look up again, owing to some claims turning out
well at Donnybrook, seven miles S.W. of Ravenswood
proper ; but the place is suffering under the curse of
Clauses 85 and 88jof the regulations relating to mining
leases ; the local publican and the local business man
generally (dog-in-the-manger-like) take up all the old
shows that paid well on the surface under Clause 85, and
then hang them up for six months on the good old excuse
—awaiting the arrival of capital. The capital never
arrives ; in fact it is never intended to arrive ; and when
the six months are up, a would-be holder must place £lO
in the hands of the Warden with his application for for-
feiture (Clause 88). Nearly all the old shows look as if
they had been worked by rabbits or bilbies ; if they were
worked by white men they should be placed under the mar-
supial act (the white men, not the claims). Clause 85 of the
Mining Act relating to mining leases is the greatest curse
that has been inflicted on the individual miner. It is the
pot-bellied publican who will benefit by this clause, as he
can lease and then hang up and await a boom. The
sooner the Governor-in-Council alters the Act relating to
hanging-up, the better for the Q. mining industry. The
Donnybrook P.C. crushed soz. to the ton the other day,
and the Block crushed 40z., while the Erinshope is bag-
ging 12oz. stone. She crushed lOoz. to the ton last time.
Those shows were abandoned for 20 years, they were pig-
rooted about the surface, and there are scores of other
shows similar to them hung up for no earthly reason
beyond speculative purpose. *
When Chillagoe shares fluttered heavenwards
lately the movement was due to “ the excellent prospects
of copper.” But copper tends surely downward. A fall
in English consumption of 12% in ’99, when considered
with America’s increased production of 28,000 tons, is
ominous.
* • » •*
“Mount Garnet” to The Bulletin Sydney
D.T. says that “ negotiations have been completed by
the Mt. Cardwell mine-owners to send the whole
output and supplies of the Mt. Cardwell Co. oyer
the Chillagoe Railway and Mining Co’s lines for
seven years, railway facilities being provided by the Mt.
Garnet branch which passes close to the Cardwell leases.
This is indeed an impudent attempt to make history.
There is no Mt. Garnet branch from the O. R. M. line—the
completion of a 10-mile spur line from the O. R. Railway
(said line being illegal, by the way) will leave Mt. Garnet
28 miles from the railway ; although the paragraph would
lead one to believe that the line had already been built.
Also, the Cardwell Co. has contracted to send all the ore
for the next seven years over a line which is yet in the
air ; and is so far from being authorised for construction
that two-thirds of the Q. parliament are absolutely
against it—and one-third is in favor of the line being con-
structed along the natural route from Mareeba to Garnet
via Atherton and the Evelyn. That route is 25 miles
shorter than the roundabout road from the O. R. and M.
Co.’s line, and the anxiety of the Mt. Cardwell
board to make a seven-year contract for haulage over a
non-existent line and over a line that, when will
mean an extra and unnecessary 25 miles of freight, is
surely only to be explained by the fact that the board has
among its members men who are on the Chillagoe Railway
and Mines board also 1 Now, there are plenty of Mt.
Garnet Freehold scrippers who are not shareholders m
the C.R. and M., and plenty of the Mt. Cardwell share-
holders who haven’t got a penny in the C.R. and M., and
yet they are in the hands of directors who make idioti-
cally-preferential contracts with the C.R. and M. Co. m
order to force the hands of Govt, to gTant rights to a
shameful railway proposal on the strength of its dements.
It would be interesting to know the legal position of a
Garnet Freehold director who is also a director of the
C.R. and M. making contracts with the C.R. and M. to
the loss of the Garnet Freehold, and how a man stands
when he is a director of the O.R. and M., the Cardwell
and the Garnet Freehold (the two last must always be
opposed to the first in the matter of transport), and
attempts to serve them all. The position is Gilbertian.
By-and-bye a man will be chosen for the directorate of a
new co., not because of the boards he is already on, but
by reason of his freedom from entanglement with other
directorates.
* * * *
The annual Mt. Garnet Freehold meeting takes
place at the co.’s office, Melbourne, on Monday, 19th inst.
There are stories of fresh finds at Woodlark
Island, but people begin to feel that the place is very dis-
tant and very hard to reach ; in fact, some cranks are com-
mencing to wonder whether there really is any such place
as Woodlark. At latest—" Some anxiety is felt concern-
ing the whereabouts of the brigantine Ivanhoe, from
Woodlark to Sydney, and which is long since overdue.
No word concerning her movements has been received.
The Ivanhoe had on board 70 tons of rich gold-bearing ore
from the Woodlark Island mine for treatment in New
South Wales.” Shares, 19s. 3d.
* * » *
Latest copper-market indications are that prices
will probably go on lowering a little, but that there isn’t
going to be any slump. Last year’s highest price was far
above anything given since the French Copper Syndicate
was paving its way to gaol in ’BB ; the market started at
£5B, went to £79 ss. (in May), got to £7O at,the end of the
year, and has lately been anything down to £66. But
there was none of the big increase in production that was
threatened; the European output merely went from
84,554 to 89,250 tons and the American from 234,272 to
262,207 tons. And as American consumption has increased
about 25,000 tons, while the European demand has been a
little better than it was, it seems likely that the “ com-
bine ” did not, after all, have much, trouble in sending
prices up. But an element of weakness so far as the
future fs concerned is that American exports for December
were a record for the year, which seems to show that the
increased demand has been now overtaken.
* * • *
Greenbushes’ tin output for ’99 was worth, ac-
cording to the official estimate, £21,138, which is nine
times more than the ’9B yield ran to. Recent efforts
have mostly been turned towards finding the tin lodes ;
and now, when the stone has been found here and there,
the inevitable extraction-troubles begin. In this case the
difficulty is a form of antimony (it is stibiotantalite, if
space is not too valuable to say so) ; and as the ore cannot
be smelted while it is present, the refractory stuff must
first be got out somehow.
* * * *
Still com in Egypt! Zeb. Lane’s British Wes-
tralian syndicate has sent out £5OOO to purchase the
Trilby, one of the Tuckanarra (Murchison) group which
Zeb. Lane had in his bag last trip “ Home.” Trilby if
now the bright star in the Anchor Gold Mines, Limited.
It used to be the Blue Anchor; but when Trilby was
taken into the partnership the blueness was dropped.
* * * *
Mt. Magnet, one of the much-boomed Bull
ventures of the early days, has just passed out after a
pathetic struggle. When its own original mine failed it
began to take options over others ; and of these such as
were not plain blanks were blanky blanks. With nothing
left to gamble with but its plant, the co. was still game ;
and its dying moments were filled in making arrange-
ments for" swapping its boilers for a chance in a new
“ consolidated ” lottery of those parts.
* * * *
One peculiar feature of Dr. Diehl’s bromo-cya-
nide process for the treatment of the Kalgoorlie sulphides
is that in milling the ore flint balls are used instead of
iron. Iron destroys the bromide ;so by using flint balls
in tube mills lined with very hard steel, the milled ore, or
pulp, is kept clean of the iron particles which would cer-
tainly be present if the ordinary grinding plant were used.
«i * * *
Be New Guinea goldfields, the Lieut.-Governor
writes :—“ Matters are dull in the Louisiade goldfields.
Mining is only carried on in two islands —Misima and
Sudest. A large quantity of quartz has been crushed on
the latter island, but the gold return is not known to
Govt. Woodlark fell off greatly. Most important work-
ings are in a little mountain range north of the island.
In a gully in these hills is a lode or dyke in which gold
occurs in large quantities, mostly in the form of dust.
The Mambare or Gira goldfield has attracted most atten-
tion. The country round it is clothed with dense forest,
and the rainfall is heavy—hence gold-seeking is difficult
and laborious. The Warden estimates that probably
10,000 oz. is the yield from the field for the year Popula-
tion, about 150 men. Natives will not engage as carriers
on account of the heavy mortality among them. Recently
gold has been also found at Milne Bay, where there was
considerable prospecting 20 years ago. A large native
population flourishes there, but the country is rugged
and broken.”
* » *


DAVID JONES & COMPANY
MERGERS, RATTERS, and GENERAL OUTFITTERS.
SOFT FRAME FELT HAT
7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
STRAW HATS.
2/9, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6.
AUSTRAL TRQPSCAL HELMETS— IO/6, 12/6.
tsr IMPORTERS OF
HIGH-GRADE ENGLISH & AMERICAN
FELT HATS, NECK WEAR,
UMBRELLAS, etc., etc.
Will In!
PARIS HAT.
21/-, 22/6, 25/-
HARD FELT HAT.
8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
George & Barrack
Streets,
SYDNEY.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q’land
ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
For the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a»nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland’s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
Society
The outburst of plague in Sydney recalls
that it was to the plague of 1666 that England
owed its first insurance society. The founder was
no other than a son of “Praise God Bare-Bones,”
immortal in English history as a type of Puritan
politician. Mick Barbon, however—Praise God
Bare-Bones’ son—deserves credit for more than
his application of the insurance principle, inas-
much as he anticipated the Ricardian system of
rent, and also methods of currency and land-boom-
ing. How he would* have shone as a land-boomer
in recent years could he but have survived may be
guaged from the other interesting circumstance
that in his will he directed that none of his debts
should be paid.
* * * *
JP Up to date there have been (say) 10 or 11
alleged cases of bubonic plague in Sydney. So
far, there have been none in Melbourne or Bris-
bane. Yet official experts who have examined
the blood of certain rats in those cities say that
both the Melb. and the Brisbane rats are suffering
from bubonic plague. In Sydney it is alleged the
A HINT.
“Mr. Smith, you do not know how pleased I am to see you.'”
“Oh, yes I do, Miss Sharp.”
“I’m sure you don't—or you wouldn't call again!”
rats died of the plague by swarms for weeks before
the first human was attacked.
* * * *
Dr. Mailier Kendall submits to Sydney
City Council a grisly account of the filth of the
city. “It is appalling to know,” he remarks,
“ that in Sydney, provided with a most excellent
sewerage system, out of 22,000 houses only about
1000 are properly connected with the sewers,
and that for the most part the others act a >
ventilators of the sewers, admitting foul gas to
the interior of the dwelling to be breathed by the
inmates.” In the year typhoid mortality in-
creased. And now comes the Bubonic Plague.
Sydney is suffering for her bygone sins.
There have of late years been some symptoms of
improvement in the personnel of the corporation ;
but “the evil that men do lives after them.”
Within the recollection of thousands, Sydney
Council was completely bossed by a few landlords,
of the butcher and grog-seller order, who, if they
did not actually send a majority of themselves
into the Town Hall, quite controlled the civ'c
elections. Think of the sanitation and beautifica-
tion of a great city being entrusted to persons of
the culture of the average rum-mill boss, or the
man who had spent all his life at the abattoirs
grabbing filthy money amid the shrieks of dying
swine !
* * * *
Shortly after Vic. authorities offered 2d. a
head for rats, tribes of small boys haunted the Port
and South Melbourne way and Williamstown
with bags, collecting rat-corpses in the streets to
trade off to professional rat-catchers. “ Got eight
bobs’-wortli yes’de,” was the glad confession of
one gamin.
* * * •
Brisbane local authorities offered two
shillings a dozen for rats, dead or alive, when the
bubonic scare reached that city. As a necessary
result small boys came along* with decomposing
rats bulging out of their _ pockets and, in some
cases, sticking out of their shirts, to claim the
proffered reward. It took the muddle-headed
local authorities about a week to perceive that they
had adopted the very best means of passing on the
contagion to human beings if the disease really
existed among the vermin. The twopence a head
is now dropped and the small boy is disconsolate.
* * • *
Sydney’s dirty and behind-hand Municipal
Council has decided, now that the plague has
really a rived, to “ close ” the famous Moore Park
“tip.” For the benefit of people outside Sydney,
to whom the ways of the local municipal ash-
barrel ate unknown, it may be explained that
Moore Park is a public recreation-ground sur-
rounded by a large population. The dirt and
rubbish and offensive matter of Sydney are
deposited on this recreation-ground. They have
“NE PLUS ULTRA.”
“Oh, nothing Australian is good enough for her! Her husband came from America!! She
gets all her dresses in Paris!!! And now I hear she is going to England for
her health!!!!”
oeen deposited there for years. There are small
mountains of them now polluting the atmosphere,
and if the plague hadn’t come along the accumula-
tion would probably have gone on indefinitely. It
may go on indefinitely even yet, for the dirty
City Council, though it is scared for the moment,
will probably go back to its tip when the scare
abates. It isn’t proposed to remove the loathsome
accumulation —it would be more dangerous now to
stir it up than to let it be. And in closing the tip it
isn’t proposed to do anything scientific or up to
date with the city’s offal hereafter. _ The Sydney
Council merely proposes to throw it in the sea in-
stead of throwing it on the land, so that it will
wash up on the beaches, and fester on the shore
in place of festering in the park. By the way, did
any other municipal authority ever strike the fear-
ful and wonderful idea of stacking up the refuse of
a great city in a park, of all places in the world ?
* * » *
More Science ! Sydney Board of Health
President recently said to a pressman that he did
not see the necessity for quarantining premises
from which plague-patients had been taken or for
removing the rest of the family. Next day, Pre-
mier Lyne proclaimed that he didn’t agree with
the 8.H.P., and thought everything ought to be
carried out in the “usual way”; after which it
was announced that the B.H. would continue to
deal with plague as it had been used to deal with
smallpox. There is a screw loose somewhere. If
the B.H.P. understood his business, Lyne’s inter-
ference was a piece of gratuitous impertinence,
but if, on the other hand, William John was right,
he did not go far enough. If professional men in
the public service cannot be trusted upon purely
professional questions, they would be better out
of said service. It is ominous that two members
of a family removed from a plague stricken house
did develop the disease after being taken to
quarantine.
* * » *
“ Constance Clyde” on the plague :
If the Health authorities grasped one important psycho-
logical fact they would conquer the plague by letting it
alone. The remedy does not follow the disease ; the
disease follows the remedy and is induced by it. F’rin-
stance, Mrs. Hale-and-Hearty casts her eye down the
morning advertisements and observes, “By the way,
here’s a lovely cough mixture, so cheap, and really cures.
I must get some of it! ” “ Have you a cough'? ” asks Mr.
H.-and-H. “ Oh, no ! but I might have.” Next day she
gets the medicine, and on the day following as a natural
consequence gets the cough. If it were not for the cure the
disease would get discouraged and die out, but as things
are the remedy continues to do its deadly work unhindered.
The plague, however, will likely prove a well-deserved
boon to at least one long-unsuffering section of the com-
munity, that is the domestic slavey. Up till now, the
slavey, when she wants a little change, tells her mistress
that there is something wrong with her internally, and
gets driven off to the hospital in a cab. Here she meets
other slaveys who have also taken this way of enjoying
some excitement, and they have a social gathering, and
talk over their missuses and see a little life generally.
The number of servant-girls who look back on the time
they spent in the hospitals as the really gay and festive
period of their existence is phenomenal. A slavey’s
standing in slavey society is adjudged by the variety of
hospitals she has stopped at and the number of opera-
tions she has enjoyed. This infection has even spread to
the society girl who does not hold that she has fulfilled
her mission in life till she has got patched up to some
extent internally. The pious girl of social standing prays
that she may be deemed worthy of operation. To the
average man and woman nothing is less healthy than con-
tinual good health. Human nature requires occasional out-
bursts of disease as it does of war, and if it does not get
hold of a genuine disease will frequently invent one.
Now the plague is going to satisfy this long-felt want in a
satisfactory and effective manner. This country was ill
for want of a plague and wouldn’t be well till it got one.
* * * *
“ Anxious Inquirer ” to The Bulletin :
I have not yet contracted the rat-plague, but I should
like to be on the safe side. When a Sydney man is
suspected of this iniquity he is, I believe, quarantined ;
his house is thoroughly disinfected, and everybody dwell-
ing in the domicile he distinguishes by his residence is
also sent to the limbo of North Head. Of course, the
number and street of his humpy is advertised throughout
the length and breadth of Australia, and every burglar in
the land knows the exact spot where an uninhabited crib
may be safely cracked. Does Govt, reimburse him for
this sort of loss ? Also, his landlord may want to know
who pays the rent, and, receiving no satisfactory reply,
may put the bailiffs into the disinfected house. Does
Govt, “lay up” to him under these disabilities ? Does
Govt, do anything, at all, except swoop down like a thief
in the night, and bundle the poor suspect off to the
Health Clink, tear up his carpets, knock about his sticks
and his chiffons, play Old Harry with his books and his
pictures, and then leave him to pay the piper ? I should
like to be prepared.
* * • *
The collective depth of the graves of the
four Sydney plague-victims buried up to the
beginning of last week is 66 yards !—4B, 49, 50,
and 61ft. respectively. When is cremation to
arrive ?
* * *
The hideously-snobbish suggestion made
that a “Gentlemen’s Contingent” be formed
for S’Africa is apparently founded on the
idea that the militia-men and bushies are mere
common trash fighting for sordid pay, whereas the
superiah gentleman fightah is built on far highah
principles, don’tcherknow.
* * * *
Even the despised bachelor is prepared to
make sacrifices in the cause of the Empire in time
of need. Asked for a Patriotic Fund donation
lately, the intended victim said business was not
flourishing and cash scarce. He offered, however,
to maintain one of the widows during his life-
time, stipulating that he should have the pick of
those ladies bereft of spouses after the war.
* * * »
If any man hungers and thirsts for femi-
nine favor let him become a bush contingenter.
The Bushies who left Sydney the other day had
kisses and endearments hurled at them by thou-
sands of women. Apparently it only whetted
their appetite, and at Adelaide one bold warrior
asked a young woman for the badge she was wear-
ing. The charming damsel looked up coyly and
requested him to come and get it. Evidently she
didn’t give away badges for nothing. So Bushie,
it being against orders to land per gangway,
slid down a rope, and after he had kissed the girl
she gave him the badge. Then there was a wild
rush to the edge of the wharf by a crowd of girls
wearing badges. The men and boys who were
hawking them about wondered why their stock
was suddenly bought up, and why good-looking
young women offered 18d. and 2s. 6d, for a six-
penny adornment. The buyers had their reward,
and many men of the N.S.W. and Q. contingents
were soon sliding down ropes and wildly hugging
and kissing Miss Croweater in general. If they
can only fight as they hugged !
* * * *
The most glittering luck has befallen the
White Star Co.’s venture of running a line of
colossal steamers between London and Australia
via the Cape. Business between London and
Australia is found good enough both as regards
cargo and passengers ; but the demand for passages
to the Cape is so keen that the co. simply haven’t
a foot of room to spare a couple of months before
the date fixed for the arrival of a boat in Aus-
tralian waters.
* * * *
There isn’t much absent-mindedness about
the beggary on behalf of the Bushrangers. It is
very direct and very comprehensive. Thus, on
one day lately, South Australia officially adver-
tised separate appeals for butter and eggs, fruit
and vegetables, groceries, chaff and other fodder,
and light literature. Also, word was sent round
to the breweries that the weather was hot and
drilling was dry work.
« « * *
No wonder the clergy yells for war and
gore. Consider the strength and beauty of the
memorial-service system as an aid to the Gospel-
Business ! Publicly praying for and singing the
praises of the slaughtered fills churches, that would
otherwise be almost empty and utterly irrespon-
sive, with hysterical crowds, whom the parson
easily lashes into blood-fury.
* * * •
How Melb. Argus ought to have pub-
lished that cable: —
CURIOUS CABLE ERROR.
A cable has been received at the Argus office from
Capetown signed by one Hipling, or Kipling, asking for
immediate despatch of horses to South Africa. N> doubt
this is from a horse-dealer at the seat of war to his agent


Arthur Griffith (Fellow Aust. Instit.
Patent Agents, and Member Patent Law Assoc.,
Washington, U.S.A.), 169 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Patents secured and Trade Marks registered
throughout the world. Tel. 2898.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer,' quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
The stone tor the tablet to commemorate
Trooper Kilpatrick, of Leichhardt, the first
N.S.W. soldier killed in the Boer war, has been
cut in—Bathurst gaol!
HARDYBROffIeRS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
and BRISBANE.
LARGE STOCK of FLASKS
In all Sizes, Kept in Stock.
STERLING SILVER, from 45/-
ELECTRO-PLATED,. Best Quality, from 17/-
Send for Illustrated
Catalogue of . .
Jewellery and Watches, &c.
df
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
CONDY’S
Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The Effect is Magical.
Beware of Colonial Imitations
Insist on buying
“ CONDY’S FLUID.”
The foil owing name & address
should be at foot of label:
I
Condy & Mitchell, 65, Goswell Rd., London, Eng.
!_l a LF-SIC K Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed,
PEOPLE. lazy,and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Per post, Is 3d. SULPHUR PILLS
65 ELGIN STREET, OARLTON, MELBOURNE.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MQUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturer*
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
in Melbourne, and should probably have been delivered
at the office of the s.s. Argus. The correct addressee
can have the cable on application at this office with proof
of hona-fides.
Or,
YELLOW SYMPATHY WITH BRITAIN.
CHINA SUPPORTS US.
The gallant struggle of Great Britain on behalf of the
eternal principles of justice and equality has evoked
world-wide expressions of sympathy. The latest evi-
dence of this feeling is to hand in the shape of a cable-
gram received at the Argus office from Capetown signed
by Kip Ling advising that more horses are urgently
needed in South Africa. We have not heard of Mr. Kip
Ling before, but make no doubt he is a prominent mem-
ber of Chinese society in Cape Colony, and we thank him
for his praiseworthy effort to let Australia promptly know
how she can best aid in the good work.
• • * *
A print- called the Cumberland Argus,
which poses as “a family paper” in the town of
Parramatta, writes a leader loudly applauding a
resident preacher’s proposal to remove The
Bulletin from the local School of Arts because
of this disgraceful paper’s neglect to trim its poli-
tical sails to the Jingo wind. In the following
issue of the Argus aforesaid appears, next to a
leading article, a long account of the wedding of
two respectable citizens ; and, right next to the
wedding report begins an unexpurgated and
utterly unnecessary five-column account of the
inquest on a local incest-abortion case—just about
the filthiest five columns present writer has noticed
for many years in any journal of mixed circula-
tion. However, the Cumberland Argus, “pat-
riotic” but filthy, will no doubt continue to be
read at Parramatta School of Arts.
* * • *
Charters Towers is proudly pre-eminent
in the per capita result of the Patriotic Fund.
Here’s one of the methods employed to reach that
glorious position : Every mine manager is a mem-
ber of the Fund committee, and in many mines
one day’s pay a fortnight is docked off the men’s
wages. The miner who objects is blandly told
that this show can dashed well get along without
any Boer sympathiser. But it’s the butcher, not
the Boer, who requires the sympathy. The former
is the indirect sufferer from this impudent black-
mail.
The Bulletin is ready to bet that the
N.S.W. Full Court decision that a prisoner
maimed in gaol through his keeper’s ignorance or
negligence has no legal right of action against
Government or anyone connected with the gaol,
would be contemptuously shoo’d away by the
Privy Council on appeal. In the case just decided
the injured man —he lost an eye through the
bursting of a boiler gauge-glass—is, no doubt, too
poor to pay the expenses of appeal, but the deci-
sion is one so utterly opposed to the rights of
civilised man that the State should pay the cost of
having the question decided by the highest
authority of the realm.
• • » •
A somewhat redeeming characteristic of
the military mind is its infantile gullibility. The
warriors swallow any yarn that exaggerates their
importance. Each British regiment takes credit
for being particularly dreaded by the Boers, and
every Colonial contingenter, from the Cape, Aus-
tralia, Canada, or Natal, apparently holds
that the corps he belongs to is the little lot
that looms largest in the enemy’s eye. Col. Tom
Price, of the Vic. Mounted Rifles, who is quite
old enough to know better, gravely assured his
daughter in a recent letter that Gen. Roberts and
CARBOLIC.
B. JACKSON (whose advanced opinions on some
delicate subjects have been resented) : “ Well, I
don’t care. I have the right to air my views.”
B. JOHNSON: “Air! You ought to disinfect
them. ”
Co. ‘ ‘ are observing great secrecy about the Aus-
tralian troops as the Boers have put £4O a head on
all Australian prisoners they can catch.” The
humour of the £4O fable lies partly in its suggestion
of unlimited cash in the Boer exchequer. The
chances are that poor old Kruger at the present
time would sooner borrow £4O from one of his
burghers than present the tattered patriot with a
handsome bonus on the live body of Tom Price.
Fancy paying £4O a head for the privilege of pro-
viding the Australians with tucker !
Tn soveral cases in Queensland the con-
{i„T"use was “ffto I’.S
applied for assistance to
the Patriotic Fund
people and her claim
was deemed worthy of
support. If assistance ,
be given in suoh
cases, some
wives will
think the
desertion
the best
luck that
ever
struck
them.
PREMATURE “STOUSH.”
MRS. MULDURNEY : “ Phwat’s up, Eileen? Did
Bill stoush yer? ”
EILEEN: “ Yere."
MRS. M.: “Gawd, the cur! He mighter waited
till he married yer. ”
Col. Tom Price, in a recent letter, re the
men of his (Vic.) contingent:—
It is rather queer to hear the views of some on board re
their African future. The general opinion is that farms,
gold-mines, &c., will be offered to the Australians.
These ingenuous warriors will presently be dis-
gusted to learn that they are fighting for gold-
mines for other people, shockingly opulent
persons mainly, with whom it is all “mine” and
no “ thine.”
* * * *
“Another chap and myself each knocked
a tooth out of a dead Boer as a memento.” Scrap
from the letter of an Australian warrior (at 4s. 6d.
a day) published in Australian dailies without a
shudder —in one or two places as a rather good
joke. “An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth ”
—but the eye-plucking anecdote is yet to come.
♦ * * *
A Melbourne sharebroker t ells of being
startled by screams, oaths and great banging in
his kitchen late one night recently. Arming
himself with the fire irons he fled down
stairs, fell ever the cat and finished the
last round on his ear. Bursting into the
kitchen he discovered the presiding
female on her knees in the act of receiv-
ing “a father of abating” from some per-
son unknown. Paterfamilias rushed
valorously to the rescue and with the
tongs beat off the aggressor. The latter,
a young man of the larrikin brand, looked
hurt, but explained : “It’s all right, Sinis-
ter, I’m a friend of hers.”- “Friend be
blessed ! ” gasped the indignant house-
father, “you’ve no beautiful right to
hammer your exclamation friends in my
kitchen.” Then the girl, thinking her
“ friend ” was about to be badly damaged,
chipped in tearfully: “Oh, yes, he has,
Mr. , we’re engyged.”
If you want to see things live in “fur-
nished apartments.” You may not enjoy yourself,
but you will certainly see things. One Sydney
man who lives in furnished apartments saw some-
thing memorable last week. There was a spare
bed in his room and the landlady, in pursuit of the
nimble shilling, let the bed to a casual stranger.
The casual one and his room-mate retired early,
and during the small hours the regular one heard
a noise, and turning over he saw the casual stand-
ing beside his bed with a naked razor in his hand.
The “regular” was about to remonstrate with him
for cutting his corns at that time of night when
the other suddenly drew the steel across his own
throat and crashed on to the floor, his head almost
severed from his body. The dead man, according
to his papers, at one time belonged to the Royal
Engineers. They do things thoroughly in that
corps.
N.S.W. Wesleyanism has gained its long-
contested battle. Lord Beauchamp notified, the
other day, that the head of that
denomination will be treated at
Govt. House dinners as the
ecclesiastical equal of the 0.E.,
R.C. and Presbyterian heads.
In Bishop Broughton’s day
neither Presbyterian nor Wes-
leyan had the nerve or thought
it worth while to fight for
this social recognition. The
feud was left between the
C.E. and R.C. heads, and
the distraught Go-
vernor of the
period could
gain peace
only by in-
vit i n g
Broughton
one day and
Ullathorne
another.
'Victoria, de-
spite Premier
M‘Shi e 1 s’
pretty pro-
mises about
the treat-
ment of the
aged poor,
continues its
easy custom
of getting
rid of them
by opening
the gaol
doors and
shov i n g
them in.
The other
day an el-
derly wo-
man on
crutches
gave
herself
up to
Rich-
mond
(Mel-
bourne)
police,
saying she had
no home, nor friends,
and was very hun-
gry. Investigation
showed that she was
practically well on the road
to death from starvation. Next
court day the police announced that she was
a hard, hard case with about a dozen previous con-
victions —probably, being very old and. a cripple,
they were previous convictions for being hungry
—and the court indignantly gave the poor old
wreck six months gaol with hard labor.
* * * *
Broken Hill has at last got a Labor mayor
and a Labor town council —all but three or four of
the aldermen were selected by Trades Hall, and
are pledged to its platform—which includes
caucus meetings and solid voting. The
Labor’ mayor draws £350 a year ; of tins he
must disburse £l5O in charities and enter-
tainments, and must show receipts for the
money. For the other £2OO he puts in
seven hours a day at the Town Hall, ex-
clusive of evening meetings. The party is
going to do a whole lot of good and useful
things if it can get the money —is going to
build baths and tramways, and have munici-
pal waterworks and municipal music, and
lighting works and abattoirs, and cool-storage
chambers. To the objection that it won’t be
able to borrow the money, it replies that it’s
very sorry, but in that case it will have no
alternative than to crowd on to the mines (which
have escaped pretty lightly hitherto) and to other
property enough taxation to allow it to make a
start with its programme. * *
The prolonged Kugelmann-Norton libel
case in the old Banco Court, King-street, Sydney,
proved a dreadful experience for Bench, bar, jury-
men, litigants, journalists and officials whom duty
compelled to remain five hours a day in an atmos-
phere foetid enough to have fitted a London slum
in the days of Daniel Defoe. The court-room and
gallery were crowded with witnesses from a‘ll over
Australia and time-killers from the parks, the
Domain and the threepenny bars. Want, Q.C.
for plaintiff, and Wise, Q.C. for defendant, per-
spired as fluently as they examined and cross-
examined. Each had one hand on his brief and
the other hand on his handkerchief. Plaintiff
Kugelmann was the coolest of all and sat bolt
upright throughout, his arms folded, his eyes and
ears alert. Defendant Norton nursed his shaven
head, round as a billiard-ball. Solicitors Baxter-
Bruce and Nathan unbuttoned their vests and
wiped their necks and, no doubt, cursed starched
collars. The crowd craned its greasy, collective
head for every word. Many briefless barristers
braved the daily ordeal. People elbowed their
way in, scornful of ushers, sniffed the disease-laden
air, gave vent to a half-suppressed choking cough,
and passed out as promptly as compressed circum-
stances would permit. Poor patient Judge Cohen
heroically bent over his bench and filled four
volumes with notes, while the newspaper-runners
yelled out all about the “ suck-in ’deeshun —’count
of the Plague ! ”
The Kugelmann-Norton case ended after
a 27 days’ hearing, during which 90 witnesses (41
for plaintiff and 49 for defendant) were examined,
in a disagreement of the jury. Plaintiff, a
herbalist, sued defendant, conductor of Sydney
Truth, for libel in imputing to him gross greed
and callousness in re his treatment of several in-
curable cancer-patients who had died under his
hands. No less than 27 doctors were examined in
the course of this trial. The Costs amount to
thousands of pounds and, failing any agreement
to settle the action, it will now be for plaintiff to
renew the attack, or pay the total taxed expenses
of the suit. Which is indeed a delicious situation
—for the barristers. They get paid from day to
day, and at the end of 27 days the two litigants
find themselves gazing at a colossal pool of money,
wondering, not which is to get it all, but which
is to lose it all, and more, in tne long run.
The speeches of Wise, Q. 0., and “Jack” Want,
Q.C., in the Kugelmann-Norton case were very
striking. The nature of the trial, involving cer-
tain interesting phases of human nature, gave
splendid scope, of which both counsel availed
themselves. When Wise had finished, Want ad-
mitted that no point had been overlooked by his
opponent. Yet Want’s address was considered by
the “fancy” to be more effective than Wise’s
brilliant speech.
In the Kugelmann-Norton case a good deal of
amusement wascaused by “Jack” Want’s imitation
of B. R. Wise’s cross-questioning of Kugelmann.
When the latter was in the box, Wise asked him
if he knew the difference between “sarcoma” and
“ carcinoma,” and on Kugelmann not being able to
answer, Wise, assuming an impressive air, asked,
“ What, are you so grossly ignorant as not to
know the difference between sarcoma and carci-
noma ? ” When some of the medical men took the
witness-box, Want, in cross-examination, in a
sweet, persuasive voice, asked if they could define
the exact difference between sarcoma and carci-
noma. They answered that they could not without
reference to books, &c. “What!” said Jack,
with a sudden assumption of Wise’s voice and
manner, “are you so grossly ignorant as not to
know,” &c. Whereat the doctors were highly in-
dignant, until the reason of Want’s apparent
warmth was explained to them, when they joined
in the laugh.
* * * *
Melb. Age, which has been consistently
jingo all through the piece, is quite grieved to
near the man in the street sneering at the local
Athenaeum Club suggestion of a “Gentleman
Scouts” Corps for service in South Africa. With
apologetic earnestness the Age argues that the
English language is to blame in this mattah for
not providing a word applicable to Boer hunters
“who are in the happy position of being able to
provide for themselves out of their own purses.”
They are not volunteers in the military sense _of
the term, nor “amateurs” by comparison with
the average Australian contmgenter. All the
same the Age doesn’t establish the claim of Mr.
John Aitken (of Mount Aitken) to confer the dis-
tinctive brand of “gentleman” on forty self-
equipped adventurers merely because they can
afford to pay their own exes. The Australian
snort, as it happens, is but an echo of the British
snort provoked by a special enlistment of gentle-
men scouts, apart from the less particular Yeo-
manry Corps. Why not despatch the Aitkenses
the Johnny Aitkenses —under the style of mounted
capitalists and call them Dudes that Won the
Empire when they return ?
THE WARLIKE SPIRIT.
“ Would you ’it your ole man if ’e ’ it you? ”
“Bobby from Belfast ” to The Bulletin :
Melbourne Police Carnival will nett over £2OOO for the
war-relief fund, and will incidentally assure the support
of the “naicest” for a certain candidature when the
Chief Commissioner’s billet is vacant. It is not many
months, by the way, since a West Melb. constable was
sternly rebuked for trying to sell tickets for a concert in
aid of an indigent widow, the authorities holding that
such an action was derogatory to his dignity as a member
of the police force. To-day the same authorities send £1
worth of carnival tickets to every member of the force,
with an intimation strongly suggesting that they must he
o-ot rid of. The result is that the police have had to be
friendly with all sorts and conditions of men, and put
themselves under compliments to people who may be
prisoners in a few days. It is a common joke in the force
that the safest place for sale of tickets is the lowest and
meanest pub. The constable has only to walk in, and
say “ It was very warm last Sunday” when the licensee
will buy a pound’s worth of tickets on the spot.
PERSONAL PRONOUNS.
Soft fell the moonlight by the sea,
Your voice rang clear and true,
The ocean smiled in sympathy—
For then we talked of you.
Sweet fell the moonlight by the shore,
The night winds sang with glee,
Your voice was music to my ear—
For then you talked of me !
Sad falls the moonlight by the sea,
Your voice has ceased to stir
My senses, for our love is dead—
And now you talk of “ her.”
PLYMOUTH SOUND.


[Forecast for ao lodefipite Period.]
Fron) MARK FOY’S OBSERVATORY,
OXFORP STREET.
BOsiQe&S “Fioc apd Clear” geocrally, tboGgb
“Stornjy” at certaip tinges of tbc year.
Tb€ prescot iodicatioo poiots to diStCirbapec
cf A6t6n>o FaSbiopS.”
All Drapers Everywhere.
W. N. WILLIS, '
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
PUBLIC
NOTICE.
g
The
Infallible
Exterminator of Bedroom Insects.
is now obtainable from all Chemists and Grocers,
at Is. per bottle.
Wholesale : ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd. ; all
Wholesale Grocers, and the Agents, 150 ' The
Strand.
GLOBE TEAS have wo »**■
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 13, 1900.
My Dear Myee,—
MissNance O’Neil’s first appearance in Sydney
was quite the event of the week. She opened in
“ Magda ” on Saturday. A dense house—
“Society” and otherwise—came along curiously
to watch the much-talked-of “ rising young
actress.”
What struck me most, in a light and frivolous
way, about this beautiful play, was that it made
you believe it was very much frocked, and yet
there was nothing in it, as far as dresses go, but
the two dresses and one cloak worn by Nance
O’Neil. The stage seemed to be in a perpetual
shimmer, and glow, and rustle. You deluded
yourself into the belief that you were watching
scenes of exquisitely-gowned wonder, and all from
two frocks and one cloak. The art, the daring,
the elaboration, and the simplicity of these frocks’
the fascination of the wearer, and the prominent
but r.ot too conscious way in which she wears
them must be the cause of this sartorial delusion.
Her second dress is audacious beyond words
when you consider that Magda wears it first thing
in the morning—to breakfast, in short. A vivid
turquoise-blue silk polonaise is thickly woven with
heavy, undulating lines of dead white. The polo-
naise is short and opens over a sea of accordeon-
pleated lace flounces, cobwebby and creamy.
Round the waist is a hanging girdle of turquoises,
set in silver, that falls nearly to the feet in front.
And in her fair hair, worn most simply, without
a curl or a crimp of any sort, a big bunch of vivid
pink chrysanthemums is stuck over the pale face.
Dressed so, Magda sweeps down to a late break-
fast, and through the glasses you behold a living
chicken (in contradistinction to a Property one,
that is) beautifully cooked among genuine cham-
pignons lying in a silver dish near real German
breakfast-rolls. I saw the chicken coming in
from The Australia next door. It looked just like
Realism getting home to roost.
I mention the second dress first because it
occupies the greater part of the play. In that
dazzling blue, with the rose-pink flowers flashing
daringly over the pale face and gold hair, Miss
O’Neil gives her most startling speeches. Out of
that audacious, bewitching toilette she flings at
you “We must sin if we wish to grow greater
than our sins,” and other dangerous blue-and-pink
sentiments. Her first frock is a black net richly
se<juined in jet, showing a turquoise lining. Over
this is thrown a magnificent white cloak brocaded
in black and heavily trimmed with ostrich
feathers. By the way, the rumor that silk linings
were “ out ” is a fable as far as Miss O’Neil is con-
cerned. She is the most rustling, swishing and
frou-frouing actress ever seen this side of the silk-
lined era.
In several ways Miss O’Neil reminds me of
Olga Nethersole. Her kiss, for instance. She
kisses Beautifully,—so Slowly, so Long, and so
Often. The first thing 3he does when she comes
on the stage is to kiss someone—Inez Bensusan it
happens to be. The theatrical kiss is such a poor
imitation, generally, a peck with two inches
between the two faces, that Magda’s realistic
caresses are almost too realistic till you get used to
them. _ Let me hasten to add, however, that she
only kisses her sister, her father, her aunt, and her
step-mother.
And another characteristic, common to Miss
Nethersole and Miss O’Neil, is the lioness busi-
ness each indulges in. Up and down the stage
rushes Magda continually. Her underskirts and
overskirts are all remarkably noisy. Swish, swish,
swish, to the right; swish, swish, swish to the
left. The long trains run after her with a loud,
jubilant, almost aggressive rustle that the back
gods hear, and bearing, murmur, “ Silk all
froo’.”
The third peculiarity of this clever and beauti-
ful actress is the determined way in which
she makes use of her back. She breaks all
stage conventions. She talks, as often as other-
wise, with her back turned square on the audience.
Surely that rule about never turning the back was
invented for weak voices that couldn’t carry round
a head turned away. When I sit in the d.c. and a
certain villain is away over there on the stage, and
the actress obeys the convention, and turning to
the d.c., right away from the man, says “Liar
and coward, you are too low to be spumed ! ” it
always seems to me an error. But still there’s a
medium, and too much back, too ostentatiously
and by premeditation turned on a house, becomes
trying.
In the company is Miss Edith Berry, from Mel-
bourne, third daughter of the veteran Graham
Berry. Saturday night was her first appearance
on any stage, except the amateur, and in the
house were her pretty sister from Melbourne,
Mrs. “Oriel” Sandes, and an equally pretty friend,
Mrs. Gavan Duffy. Last week Miss Berry was
Sut into the excellent ingenue part of Marie,
lagda’s sister. On Saturday, however, many
people were surprised to find that the tall and
sinuous Edith had nothing more to do than fill a
servant’s cap and frock, and hand in a bouquet to
Inez Bensusan, who played the ingenue charmingly
with two long pigtails and simple pink and white
dresses. I hear that the reason of the change is
that Miss Berry was too tall for the part ; but,
anyhow, Miss Berry is very young.
Looking through the English Illustrated
Magazine the other day I came across an article
on “Titled Colonials” in which some things that
may be interesting to Australian women are put
forth. ‘ ‘ Supposing agirl is an Australian, ” says the
writer, “ her father and husband are very different
from the long-suffering father and husband in th e
States. They, Australian fathers and husbands,
are actually so far behind the times, and so selfish,
as to regard their wives and daughters in the light
of possessions, and to expect numerous duties
which distinctly are old-fashioned.” The writer
signs “ Cecil de Thierry.” What Australian man
does that name conceal ? Or is it possible it could
be a woman '!
Another comment: “A man is valued not so
much for his wealth as for his birth and social posi-
tion. Hence Society is less shallow, less extrava-
gant and less amusing than it is in the United
States.”
How do you like that, Potts Point? Less
shallow, less extravagant may be truths, but less
amusing! Less amusing is a barbarous fallacy.
Nothing, nobody, could be more amusing than our
own Potts Point—except
The article is decorated with photos, of Austra-
lian and American women with titles. I must
say, without prejudice, that the Australian faces
are quite as charming as the Americans; far
more so, in my opinion. Mrs. Ivo Bligh
displays a most winning face, with a
white fichu draped lightly about her
throat. She is. spoken of as 44 Lord X)arnley 5 s
beautiful sister-in-law, with literary tastes.” Ac-
cording to this article she has written a novel in
collaboration with Mr. Hodgson, to be published
this year. Then there is the young and pretty
Countess of Huntingdon, the second daughter of
Salmon Wilson, the squatter - millionaire who
bought his title by endowing Melb. University.
The Countess has about the best time of any
Australian woman in London society. Another
Australian girl, Miss Millicent Cox, who married
Lord Bertie in ’9O, is casually referred to. Rupert
Carrington’s wife is alluded to briefly—no photo-
graph—as the daughter of one of the largest land-
owners of the world. Lady Fremantle shows up
fetehingly in her photograph. Her father is Hon.
S. M. Isaacs, a brilliant (old-time) member of
Sydney bar. Lady Fremantle herself was born
in England, and is reckoned to possess the
“ vivacity of a colonial as well as the restful charm
of an Englishwoman.” But of all the Australians,
Lady Ingram looks the kindest, stoutest, and
most motherly. He father was a distinguished
South Australian, Hon. Edward Stirling. Her
husband is managing director of the Sketch and
London News, and her house is kept open for the
literary-social lights of two hemispheres. Al-
together, “ colonial ” women are very well treated
by the English mag., the only qualities denied
them being wit, tact, and great social charm,
whatever that is.
How Sydney remembers vice-regal things !
Magda' was running along smoothly, the house
was worked up to a pitch, the actors were all
extra-tightly strung, and a dramatic climax was
coming near when —“ Let them AU Come!" cried
Magda passionately. The house went off like
fizz. Before you could think, stalls, circle and
gods had gone into fits of laughter. Tragedy
vanished. A bewildered look swept over the faces
of the Americans on the stage. For a second the
lovely Nance paused. Then she gathered herself
up sublimely and dashed through what was to her
the house’s incomprehensible amusement. After
the curtain a young Sydney actress hastily ex-
plained the local legend of “Let ’Em All Come,”
and , Magda was immediately cleared of Gov.
Carrington’s historic utterance.
One advantage of the war fever in Sydney was
that it kept the public mind off the plague scare
for a while. As soon as the war fever abated every
second man—why are men so much more quickly
scared than women?—began to imagine the Black
Death had got him. The terror of the plague is
daily becoming more legitimate. In fact, there’s
no good blinking at the truth. We’ve got the
plague—and got it pretty badly. Redfern, Sussex-
street, Annandale, Drummoyne, the Sydney
Hospital, and the Children’s Hospital at the Glebe
have all been tainted.
Nothing is talked about but rats, dirt-boxes,
dust-men, drains, and potato-peelings. The maid
who empties the wash-up water down the kitchen-
sink is beginning to find her life a burden. Fowls
have had their liberty curtailed, and are no longer
allowed to roam over the next-door waste-basket.
But dogs and cats are profiting. They are being
fed lavishly out of their own tin plates three times
a day. The Government urges people who cannot
feed their dogs and cats to kill them outright.
Evidently the Government believes that a sleek
cat never steals, and that a well-fed dog will pass
the most alluringly-malodorous bone in the world.
That sounds like a Government theory.
Dr. Creed’s old plea for a crematorium cropped
up again last week. It really is about time we
began to think seriously about that. It seems
that a plague patient who is dead and buried is
almost as dangerous as a living one. Is it senti-
ment that makes the race cling to the dingy
plumes, the ugly box, the hole in the damp clay,
the driver with the dingy broadcloth and the red
nose ?
By the way, it was Dr. Creed who showed me
once some unforgettable photographs, photos, of
smallpox cases, taken at different stages. They
combined a shock and a hygienic lesson most
startlingly. The most diseased imagination could
not picture anything so outrageous as the poor
woman slowly turning out of all likeness to a
human being. At last her hands were not hands.
They were hoofs; no fingers, nothing human
about them. Her whole face disappeared, as the
photographs went on and showed later develop-
ments —disappeared and was no longer a human
face, but just an indescribable mass. The eyes,
the nose, the mouth, were all wiped out. “ What
a terrible case ! She died, of course.” “ No, she
got better. This case died, though.” And he
showed me another. . . And yet there are
people going about this earth unvaccinated 1
Miss Fotheringhame sends me a copy of Young
Australia, which looks just as cheerful and
flourishing as ever. The paper goes in for little
bits of news. May I steal one? “Miss See, of
Lotaville School, Randwick, obtains the medal
for two consecutive years at the school for cour-
teous behaviour.”
The engagement of pretty Miss Lola Roberts
and one of the “ Mighty Atoms ” has been broken
off. She goes away by the India to spend a year
with her sister, Mrs. Stanley Mylius, who will
take her along to Paris Exhibition..
Crowds of Sydney folk are going “ home ” by the
Medic. Henry Lawson is off to try his fortune
in London. Mr. and Mrs. Fullwood and their
little boy are also hieing them Londonwards by
the Medic.
Monday and Tuesday this week people have
been rushing wildly out to Rose Bay to inspect the
big houseful of Lovely furniture to be sold at Cran-
brook, to-morrow. Seven hundred catalogues were
printed. Every one was snapped up before any
society people could fall breathless over the front-
door step. The problem of what was rosewood
and what was walnut, and what you ought to give
an extra gasp over as a work of art, was left to the
society mind to solve for itself. This puzzle was
deepened by the wonderful amount of gilding on
the sideboards, mirrors and wardrobes. So much
gold-leaf has never been seen in this gloomy,
plague-stricken city before, and it worried Potts
Point beyond words whether to take that gilding
seriously as the very latest, or whether to gaze
on it with superior disdain —which would you do,
Myee ?
The malicious talk that at one time surrounded
a beautiful Sydney society woman receives its
death-blow from the publication of her late hus-
band’s will. The chief management of his £175,000
is left in her hands. If she marries again she is to
have £l5OO a year for life. The will especially states
that in the event of her second marriage, she is to
have the choice of his town and country houses as
long as she lives. This is the sort of man’s will a
woman likes to surrender her own to.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ The Contingent did not march through the
town ; it frolicked.through pretty well at its own
indiscretion. People who were at Cheltenham,
where the men camped the night before, say that
the beer supply of the whole district was ex-
hausted. As the troops polka’d through the city,
there was no attempt at soldierly order, and if a
warrior saw a kissable girl in the background he
simply climbed over the crowd on his impatient
neddy, and spread the chaste salute on her pink
cheek like a soldier and a man. But it was after
the Contingent disentangled itself from the swarm
in the city, and frisked into South Melbourne,
that it fairly let itself loose. Ten minutes later
every second man was armed with a bottle of some
sort.
“Good men on fairly good horses, that is the
verdict on the Yic. Bushmen—young, strong, case-
hardened natives burnt like bricks, and fit for any
business. The few bushmen from the tape-de-
partments have had the pink and white scorched
out of them, and they blended well with the
whole on Saturday. Some of the horses were
small and stringy, and the breaking of some had
been very'perfunctory, but the majority were
stout, serviceable neddies.
“ The most festive man in the contingent was
a large, stout, swarthy bushman who was riding
all over his horse to the tune of Rule Britannia,
and remaining up only by reason of the fact that
the law of gravity does not apply to drunken men.
The Cameron Scouts who followed after were evi-
dently teetotallers all. Their grave and stately
bearing was in sharp contrast with the giddiness
of the bottle-armed destroyers on before ; but the
scouts are a ‘ genteel ’ regiment.
“ Then was enacted the one mysterious and
thrilling incident of the day’s business. Officers
had been seen consulting with the Minister of
War in a scared way, other officers had come and
gone with grey, grave faces and an air of intense
excitement stubbornly repressed, and the general
wonder had grown gradually into a great awe. It
was whispered about that the Russians had landed
at Footscray and carried Fitz Gibbon’s main sewer,
and that the gallant White Knight was holding
the enemy at bay with a short poem, pending the
arrival of reinforcements. But the climax came with
the formal dismissal from, the ranks of Private
Davey, a smart-looking man with a trim beard
and an air of blank amazement. The man was
stood out alone before the crowd, a monument of
stunned incredulity, and as nobody but the officials
were aware of the strategic importance of the
action just taken it was generally believed that
Private Davey was suspected of a determination
to throw the contingent overboard in its sleep at
dead of night somewhere in mid-ocean.
[“lt would now appear that Davey’s dismissal
was due to accusations founded on mere gossip,
and the authorities have fallen back for an excuse
on an allegation that the man was declared to be
medically unfit. This excuse, in view of the pomp
and ceremony with which the dismissal was carried
out, only intensifies what appears to have been a
cruel outrage committed m the drunkenness of
their enthusiasm by a number of incompetent and
swollen officials.]
“One of the Scottish regiment, in pushing his
way to the front, jostled a portly old dame who
stood on the kerb, and she turned on him savagely,
‘ Who are ye pushin’ ? Ah, I’m ashamed of ye ;
pull doon yer clo’es, ye dirty feller, and cover up
the blue veins m yer poor-turkey legs.’ Besides
the crowd assembled on verandahs, roofs,
windows and window-ledges, the doors of
shops were packed with employes standing on
chairs and benches. The doorway of a tea-
room attracted some attention, as all its girls,
dressed in red, white and blue, stood bare-headed
and mounted on chairs waving farewell to the
departing heroes, several of whom they evidently
knew intimately. ‘ Look, there’s ! The
darling, doesn’t he look beautiful! His going
means a loss of at least six shillings a week to us.
He was so particular about his chops, and he’ll
have such horrid food over there, poor thing, only
a few rations and weevils and kopjes, and not
enough of them.’ ‘Yes, it is a shame, and there’s
! Doesn’t he look nice! I danced with him
only a month ago. I hope he won’t get shot. I
wish they weren’t taking those wretched nurses in
the same boat. They said they’d all be old frumps
and they aren’t old—several of them are quite
pretty; I think it’sa shame.’ ‘Look, lock, there’s
! Fancy their taking him—he never ate
more than sixpence, and grumbled at everything.’
“At the street comer, two women in the front
rank of the crowd stood anxiously awaiting the
procession. They both wore mourning, the
younger one being in widow’s weeds. As the men
came nearer and began passing, they anxiously
scanned each face till at length the familiar one
came in sight. ‘There, there’s Joe ! ’ They pressed
forward and caught him by the hand. A moment
later and he was gone. Then the elder woman
broke down. ‘ He’s her son. Tom, my husband,
was killed. He went with the first contingent.
We didn’t come down to see him off, and when he
was going, he said, “ It’s bad luck you not coming
down to wave a farewell.” That’s why we came
down to say good-bye to Joe.’
“Actor-Gov. Madden made one tired before
the contingent began to circulate by the dreary
drip of much gubernatorial declamation. His
Ex-cellency is, under all circumstances, windy
and gabblesome, a characteristic probably due,
men say, to his youthful familiarity with the Ring
and its spouting champions, but on official occa-
sions of this kind he babbles like the eternal
brook, and on Saturday he was like a fat and
garrulous mother-superior talking moral plati-
tudes and complimentary twaddle to a regiment of
unkissed misses. Brevity was the sole wit of
Brassey’s address to the previous band of heroes,
but the tight-laced Madden’s heavy harangue
hadn’t even one quality to recommend it. When
at last he was done the sigh of relief that went up
from the men was like a November gale. They
felt they had survived the most terrible feature of
the campaign.
“A peculiarly pathetic feature in the case of
Margaret Heffernan, the servant-girl, now lying
under sentence of death for drowning her infant
in Melb., was the accidental loss, by burning, of
the letter addressed by her to her parents. When
the unfortunate girl was left in the city almost
penniless, and with a baby in her arms, in her
desperation she wrote a letter to the country
township where her father and mother resided.*
By an extraordinary piece of ill-fortune, the very
day that the letter arrived, the local post-office
caught fire and the whole of the mail-bags were
destroyed. Thus, failing to hear from her parents,
the unfortunate girl concluded that they had
declined to help her, in the same way as did
afterwards the Y.W.C.A. and the W.C.T.TL—
and stung to frenzy, committed the fatal deed.
“The case of Margaret Heffernan should
coerce the dullest and most phlegmatic of the
community to sanction the establishment of a
Foundling Hospital. A community, leading the
modern life of a big city, and refusing to provide
such accommodation, deserves to be placed in the
police-court dock beside the ill-starred, semi-
demented mother.
“ The fact that Hefferman drowned her
baby in the Yarra because the Christian
Women’s Association and the Young Women’s
Temperance Association ‘ didn’t take women
with babies,’ has caused some papers to
comment severely on the action of these
institutions. But if those places were origin-
ally intended for women without babies, and if the
women without babies (supposing the other class
were allowed) would thereby become confused with
the women with babies, it seems that these insti-
tutions had at least some justification for their
behaviour. You cannot mingle unfallen women
with fallen—even if the fall is only a one-baby
The reasons are practical, not sentimental.
To the aristocratic woman reputation is a luxury ;
among lower-class women it is a necessity.
To the servant-girl it has a distinct finan-
cial value _ which she cannot afford to risk
m the slightest degree. Therefore the roof
that shelters her must be a roof of more irre-
proachable character than the roof over women in
the higher social scale. The fault is not the insti-
tution s, but the State’s, which laments its decreas-
***& birth-rate, yet so manages its affairs that when
the scarce baby does arrive the mother has no
course open but to drop it—gently, yet firmly—
into the river.
“Dr. Miller (husband of Mary Gaunt) is fast
recovering, much to the surprise and delight of his
friends, for some six months back his case was
considered quite hopeless. He will probably settle
m Maonland.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


11l
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND, &C.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
JHOS. COOK & SON.
PEOPLE YOU KNOW.
No 2.—The Postman.
A rural postman writes: “ I desire to add tms
unsolicited testimony to the sterling qualities of
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa. lam a rural postman and
exposed to all kinds of weather. I have used Dr.
Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, daily this last eleven months,
and I believe that I can do my work with less
fatigue since I have used it. I can honestly
recommend Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa to my fellow
postmen for its sustaining qualities.”
Of late years many new manufactures, rejoicing
in a multiplicity of names, have been brought
before the public notice, but there are none which
have bounded into favor so readily as has Dr.
Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa. Throughout the country its
sales have increased with great rapidity, and an
article which only a few years back was unheard
of has now become one of the most popular bever-
ages of the people.
Merit, and merit alone, is what is claimed for
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, and the proprietors are
prepared to send to any reader who names The
Bulletin (a postcard will do) a dainty sample tin
of Dr, Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa free and post-paid.
There is no magic in all this. It is a plain,
honest, straightforward offer. It is done to intro-
duce the merits of Vi-Cocoa into every home.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, as a concentrated form of
nourishment and vitality, is invaluable; nay,
more than this, for to all who wish to face the
strife and battle of life with greater endurance
and more sustained exertion, it is absolutely indis-
pensable.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 G-eorge-street, Sydney.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
Dr. M. MACKENZIE’S
THROAT LOZENGES
Are being Imitated.
Be SURE that the address on the Label
is Leadenhall-st., London.
•
Australasia : C. E. Newman
King-St., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Paragraph from an Adelaide paper :
Mrs. M. Keitel, Port Adelaide, writes that she cheerfully
consented to her husband going with the Bushmen’s Corps
to fight for the Empire.
Gov. Beauchamp now declines to see re-
porters. Between Scylla and Charybdis ! In-
terviews meant Lot water. Seclusion will mean
cold water.
Amongst the Cape war-artists for London
Graphic is Heinrich Eggersdorfer, formerly well-
known in Sydney, and of whose sketches many
have appeared in the columns of this paper.
The new N.S.W. Agent-General, it is
laid down, should be “a man of commercial and
business experience, and not over forty years of
age.” Not over forty. Now who can it be ?
It was rumored, that ex-Mayor W. P.
Manning, of Sydney, who is leaving for London,
would probably succeed Salomons, Q.C., as Agent-
General, but the story, it is now declared, has
nothing in it.
The knighted and Napoleonic Fitzgerald,
Melbourne’s leading surgeon, sailed for Africa last
Saturday. He will give his services to the British
forces for three months, and hopes to return in
August, refreshed by much study of modern rifle-
bullet wounds.
Percy Spence, the well-known Bulletin
artist, now in London, has been laid up with
bronchitis, but is reported better. He is on the
home staff of London Graphic, working up the
war-sketches sent in by the war-artists at the
front, and is doing some excellent work.
References in the English papers to the
late Daily Mail war correspondent Steevens, the
most brilliant descriptive writer of the decade, go
to show that his sympathies were distinctly with
the Boers in that he believed the inception of the
war to be “ neither, inevitable nor just.”
Judge Bundey, the most respected Judge
South Australia has ever had, re-ascended the
Bench last week after 12 months’ leave. His
Honor, a popular, all-round sportsman, spent
most of his leave yachting in S.A. waters; but
nevertheless returns in far from robust health.
Stated that that illustrious Tasmanian ex-
Minister, Captain Miles, has now become the pro-
prietor of a daily paper in the Isle of
Dreams. Now what a man owns he will control.
It will indeed be interesting to hear Miles acknow-
ledging the toast of that noble institution the
Press.
A series or articles now appearing in Syd-
ney Freeman’s Journal on “ Cathedral Churches
of the World ” bear indications of being from the
pen of a well-known Sydney Equity Q.C., who
some little time ago retired from the bar and went
to Europe, and who was said to meditate calling
himself to the church.
Of the five Chief-Justices of Australia four
are University graduates. The fifth—Way of
S.A. —is, as being an Australian representative on
TIRED OF LIFE.—A SYDNEY DOMAIN
SKETCH.
“Let me like a soldier fall!”
the Judicial Bench of the Privy Council, the most
distinguished. But in Way’s early life S.A.
possessed no University. Neither did Queensland
when Griffith was young, but Sydney was com-
paratively near.
Hohepa, a fine, stalwart Maori, who was
sent ’Ome at Jubilee-time, accompanies M.X. third
contingent, and will likely be the only one of his
race fighting on the British side. Hohepa was re-
jected on account of color, but Native Minister
Carroll secured him a place. M.L. Govt, says that
the responsibility of his rejection rests with the
Cape authorities.
N.S.W. ex-Governors would appear from
a couple of letters handed around by Henry
Copeland, M.L.A., to study the same book of
elegant phrases. Jersey writing to Henry on
January 28 says : “How splendidly Australia has
tome forward !” Carrington writing Jan. 20
says: “How gloriously Australia has come out;
N.S.W. is simply splendid.”
When the heavy-weight Leith Napier,
front-rank Adelaide surgeon, and head of the local
hospital, was thrown from his horse two months
ago, his recovery was reckoned impossible. Then
when his return to physical health slowly became
possible, his mental recovery was still regarded as
hopeless. Yet at latest the doctor was able to
talk intelligently for a little; and there is now
good hope that the recovery will be complete.
Napier’s only son, a member of the second S. A.
contingent, who stayed behind to attend the
funeral, has now gone on.
The usually accurate Emily Soldene makes
a curious error in her last London letter to by ney
E. News. She confounds Charles James lox the
British statesman and roue, with George rox,
founder of the Quakers. This was apropos ol a
AT THE SQUARING-UP.
THE DETROTIVE: “Look at the beers I bought yer."
THE PRIZGIG : “ But look at the dirt yer made
me swatter! ”
scion of a noted'Quaker family recently seconding
the Commons address-in-reply in Court uniform.
Well, Windsor breeches are rather different from
George Fox’s self-made leathern ones !
It is rumored that John Longstaff, before
leaving for Europe, is to be commissioned to paint
the N.S.W. Chief-Justice, who will shortly com-
plete his 70th year. It is to be hoped this is true,
as the Chief is a fine subject. The present por-
traits in N.S.W. law-courts are not startling, the
best being the portrait of late Chief-Justice Mar-
tin, by Miss Ada Bell (a visiting artist), in the
No. 1 Jury Court. Longstaff’s work is of quite
another class.
For a century almost everyone has ac-
cepted Geo. Barrington, the pickpocket, as
author of the lines—
True patriots we, for, be it understood,
We left our country for our country’s good.
There is now good authority for the belief that
the famous prologue was the work of Francis
Waldron, a relative of Barrington’s, who was
living in London at the. time of the composition,
and had a connection with both literature and the
drama.
Pastor Fitchett is the star of the Wesleyan
Conference. A Triton amid the minnows. He is
up to the best of them in the
theologic bolstery which occu-
pies their whole minds. Yet
he can treat this as a mere side-
show, and give the main ener-
gies of his mind to everything
and a few other things. In
other words, he freezes on to
the useful, and plays with the
useless.
How is it that two such
obstinate teetotallers as Car-
dinal Moran and Archbishop
Carr must always have their
beer-maker or beer-seller danc-
ing attendance ? A beer-leader,
as the most noble Fides Achates
of the Faithful. Publican Jack
Anderson, M.L.A., went all the way
from Melb. to Albury to meet the
Cardinal with a basket of prog and no
grog. Brewer Nick Fitz-gerald boarded
the railway compartment at a later stage.
When the late James Beef Patterson was
shown St. Patrick’s Dublin Cathedral and Guin-
ness’s Brewery he exclaimed, “ Salvation on one
hand and damnation on the other ! ”
At Trinity College (Melb. University) on
a recent Sunday, Dr. Deeper, who presided over
morning prayers, called for “God save the Queen”
in honor of the relief of Ladysmith. The students
got through the Ist verse all right, but went badly
to pieces over the 2nd, whereupon the Dr. himself
gave them a stave. But when reproaching
students after the service for not knowing the 2nd
verse it was pointed out to him by somebody who
meanwhile had looked it up that he himself had
sung the 3rd verse instead of the 2nd. The doleful
canticle is more than even “ patriotism” can stand
too much of.
Impelled by an intense and far-seeing
patriotism The Bulletin urges upon the N.S.W.
Minister for War the desirableness of at once
affording facilities for the distinguished Lieut. -
Colonel Neild to gain the necessary bush experi-
ence to qualify him to take command of the
projected new contingent. If by the ineptitude
of the local War Office the services of this valuable
and decorative soldier should be lost to the Empire
at so critical a juncture this paper will in revenge
use its utmost endeavors to intercept War-Minister
See’s title.
General Clery’s much-paragraphed sartorial
dandyism in the field is nothing to his detriment.
Said a French officer, who had been taken
prisoner during the ’7O war, to a German
captain of infantry on the morning of
Gravelotte: “Ah, monsieur, I see you
are waxing your moustache. You are a
brave man ! ” And there’s a lot of
truth in the remark. “ The man who,
falling down a 1000-feet precipice,” hap-
hazards an unknown philosopher, “can
feel annoyed at noticing that a
button on his black coat has been
sewn with white cotton, has the
makings of a Caesar, but, alas—not
the time ! ”
Victoria is the first province of
Australia to have at one time a Lieu-
tenant-Governor, a Leg. Assembly
speaker and a Premier, of the R.C.
faith.
The recent remark of John Burns, M.P., in
the House of Commons, that the British soldiers
were being used as “Janissaries of the Jews,’’shows
that John is still an excellent maker of phrases
that stick. When sentenced to imprisonment
with .Cunningham-Graham (the plucky Socialist
Scotch laird), for asserting the right of free speech
in Trafalgar Square against Sir Charles Warren
(now commanding in South Africa, but then Com-
missioner of the London police), an Australian
friend asked Burns, “ What will become of your
wife while you are in prison ? ” Burns, who was
very young then, replied in his deep voice, “I
have made arrangements to leave her to the apathy
of a callous world.”
Robert Richardson, in Sydney Daily
Telegraph, in considering the unquestionably
fine capacity of the late Prof. W. G. Stephens,
wonders why so fine a classical scholar was allowed
“to decline” upon a chair of science? The ex-
planation is simple. When Stephens was in his
prime Australia possessed one of the greatest of
living classics in the person of Badham. Sydney
University could not find use for two classical stars,
so Stephens, who was absolutely one of the most
unpractical of men, had to claw for science.
Nevertheless, considering he was not a man of the
W. B. Clarke stamp, Stephens’ scientific work
was excellent'.' Next to Badham, to Stephens is
due the establishment of Sydney Public Library.
When that distinguished
scientist, Grafton Elliott Smith
(M.D. Sydney, now a Fellow at
Cambridge), was Anatomy De-
monstrator at Sydney Univer-
sity, an aboriginal body was
under dissection, and two stu-
dents were “ working,” one on
either side, at the base of the
skull. Now in the hand of
another body another student
had previously found two small
supernumerary bones exactly
alike, and these he had inserted
in the neck-muscles of the
darkie, one on each side and
in exactly corresponding posi-
tions. On finding these bones
in their cadaver, the'students
before-mentioned reported the
abnormality to Demonstrator
Smith, who in turn reported
to the Professor. Thinking
they had discovered some new
feature of aboriginal anatomy,
these two spent some hours
taking accurate measurements
and known “landmarks,” and
drawing elaborate diagrams.
The Prof, talked of reading a
paper on the subject before the
Royal Society, and not till then
did the students as a body send
a deputation to give him the
facts. The hoaxer was never
discovered by the authorities.
An ex-member of M.L. House of
Representatives tells how he was travelling by
rail once without his pass. The guard, a stranger,
shook his head, and required identification, but
presently came along, laughing, and said it was
“All right.” “ Someone knows me, then ? ” “Oh,
yes; the governor of the gaol is in the next car-
riage, and he told me who you are.”
R. D. Ireland, Q.C., cleverest of Vic-
torian barristers, was once, during an election
address, subjected to a running fire of disagreeable
comments from a particularly grimy-looking son
of toil. When the speaker referred to going the
whole hog for Freetrade, the interrupter re-
marked, “Where did you get your idea of the
whole hog from ? ” Replied Ireland in a paren-
thesis, without diminishing his rapid flow of
words: “When I saw you, my friend.” Silence
for the rest of the evening.
When Judge Casey was Victorian
Commissioner at Paris Exhibition of ’7B he
one day put on his Windsor uniform to meet the
Prince of Wales, who had promised to visit his
court. Albert Edward was late, and as the Com-
missioner walked up and down, perspiring in the
panoply of state, he said to the secretary : “ How
does the dress become me? Do I look like a
military officer?” “Not that, quite,” answered
the sec. “Do I look like an admiral, then?”
“ I should not take you for that, either,” re-
sponded the other party to the conversation.
“Then in heaven’s name what do I look like?”
persisted the Commissioner. Said the secretary
unflinchingly, “You look like a blooming pirate ! ”
It is taken for granted that Daniel Cooper
will again stopgap on Salomons’ retirement from
N.S.W. Agency-General, for Barton will be too
busy and Saul Samuel’s health is too shaky.
Cooper’s first appointment to the Agency raised a
furious row. William Forster, then in the office,
believed the billet would be his for years, and pur-
chased and fitted up a fine London residence.
Suddenly, without a note of warning, Parkes,
Premier at the time, withdrew him and sent
Cooper in his place. Cooper met Forster in
London and describes him as the maddest man he
found in England. “He’ll skin you alive,” he
wrote out to Parkes. Forster on his way back to
Sydney was elected for Gundagai and entered the
House like a sirocco. He didn’t quite skin
Parkes, but he took many a heavy political fall
out of him.
John Alsop, the fatherly chief of Vic.
Savings Bank, is off to England for a holiday trip.
Alsop told his complimentary banqueters, th a
other night, that when he entered the Savings
Bank in 1854 its head-office was a first-floor room,
14ft. by 12ft., where the growth of business was
artfully assured by devoting five days a week to
the receipt of deposits, and the other one day to
paying out. Hence it became necessary to double
the width of the counter for the protection of the
pay-clerk. Nearly everybody in Yicr. is fami-
liar with the name of John Alsop, the annual
Apostle of Thrift. On each successive New Year’s
Day he sends a letter to the papers exhorting the
population at large to open new accounts or mag-
nify the glory of their old accounts, and die in an
odour of prosperity and righteousness.
A female quack-doctor, advertising her-
self as an “M.D.,” was examined at the Sydney
inquest on the body of a woman killed by septic
peritonitis :
The Coroner : What is the meaning of “ M.D.” ?
Witness: There is no special significance in the letters
“ M.D.” ; they are used more for attraction than anything
else.
The Coroner : Have you gone through any course of
tudy for your business ?
Witness : I have been in the business about three
years.
The Coroner : Have you ever studied medicine or drugs
of any kind ? For instance, can you tell us anything
about permanganate of potash ?
Witness : No, sir. I have studied medical books.
The Coroner : Have you had any special training?
Witness : No, sir.
The Coroner : Do you know anything about the appara-
tus produced ?
Witness : I have seen such an apparatus.
A Juror : How old is “Madame Orme” ?
The Coroner : Now, that is a delicate question. How-
ever, if the witness has no objection, she can answer it.
Witness replied that she was 20 years of age, and
started her business at the age of 17 years. She was un-
married.
A Juror : In view of the significance of your refusal to
answer certain questions, would you now like to answer
any questions you have refused ?
Witness : I absolutely decline to answer the questions.
A Juror : Why is the word “ our ” used on the circulars
when you say you have no partner ?
Witness : I refuse to answer.
A Juror: Does any other lady assist you in the busi-
ness ?
Witness : No ; I do it all myself.
The Coroner : Can you explain how the circulars with
your name got into deceased’s house ?
Witness : I am unable to say.
A Juror : Do you advertise similarly to the circulars in
the newspaper ?
Witness : I decline to answer.
A Juror : How did you come to go into this business ?
Mr. Levien (to witness) : Don’t answer.
Witness : I decline to answer.
A Juror : What are the profits of the business ?
Witness : I decline to answer.
A Juror: Did you fill up the income-tax papers?
Witness : I decline to answer.
The jury added a rider calling upon Govt, to
suppress quack advts. of the illicit-operation
order. An interesting feature of the case is
“ Madame Orme M.D’s ” admission that she went
into “the business” when she was 17 years old.
“ Sweet seventeen !”
“ WANTED—AN ACROBAT”
CONSTABLE (to restless court onlookers ): “ Hould
yer tongues there wid yer feet!”
News seems to reach official circles in
Vic. with unheard-of rapidity. One day in
February Premier M‘Lean notified in the Govt.
Gazette that Great Britain was at war, and that
all citizens are hereby prohibited from aiding and
abetting the Queen’s enemies.
“Major” Iteay in Melbourne Herald:
“It may be doubted whether a number of these
ignorant Dutchmen in Cape Colony North really
know under which flag they are living.” Very
sad indeed. Such ignorance as that couldn’t
happen in this country. And yet the present
writer lately met three commercial men of some
standing in a Sydney hotel' who were trying to
recollect apropos of something or other whether the
N.S.W. public debt was four millions or over nine
millions, and an intrusive individual who said
it was 63 millions was laughed out of court. And
less than a year ago the S.M. Herald came out
with a leading article declaring that 1899 years
made nineteen complete centuries !


For
that
Tired
Feeling
SCH/TAPPsI
FRANZ
JOSEF
LAGER
■V
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
In about 10 years’ time Australia will be
over-run with swaggies bumming around as desti-
tute relics of the South African Bushmen’s Con-
tingent. Present writer, at all events, when
reduced to swag-carrying and tale-pitching for
tucker, means to take up the profession of Bush-
men’s Survivor. What a time he will have in
bush pubs.—working on the Bill - Adams - at-
Waterloo line! —prating to listening crowds
about the part he played in the battle of
Pootchslingersterksburg, and showing the “never-
healed wound ” (made by the dog sooled on to him
at the last station) “that a Boer voortrekker in-
flicted on him with a veldshoon.” Then it’ll be
“ fillemupagen,” and when he dies at the age of
196, the local paper will “par” him as the last sur-
vivor of the famous battle of Beerbakkaspitzenkop.
Lovely, isn’t it, that, just when the Balaclava
heroes (to the number of 3,000,000 or so) have
nearly all succumbed to old age, and the 9327 first
discoverers of gold in Australia are petering-out at
last, our “statesmen’’should have set about laying
up for us another inheritance of veteran dead-
beats 1
NOT THEIR STORE.
FIRST SELECTOR: “ See you've got a new store in your township. Do you get yer things here?”
SECOND SELECTOR : “Not much ! It's the wrong kind o’ store for us.”
Real bush men—if there are any in the
Contingent—will probably do so badly with the
regulation military ration as to seriously impair
their usefulness. The trouble will be chiefly about
meat and sugar. A daily lib. lOoz. of meat and
4oz. sugar is about the minimum needed by a
vigorous bushman. Queenslanders will probably
suffer most, because, curiously enough, as we get
farther North the craving for meat and sugar
steadily increases, until, in the Gulf country,
241bs. of beef and 7oz. of sugar is a usual daily con-
sumption among bush-dwellers.
„ „ „
~ ni i y 3 it tv ,1 Ay- ii j 7 /-r> q/o/iaa\
Shaker : Dodd Mobb (B. 3/_j/ 00)
is right. Good long-range shots are rare among
bus.imen. In the bush, except on the big plains,
an object can rarely be seen 300yds. off, and bush-
men don t shoot at things they can t see. At very
short range, bushmen using their own rifles
would give a high percentage of good, and many
phenomenal shots; but at 800 or 1000yds. they re
not m it.
* * * * .
The Transvaal war lias affected Maori-
land’s belligerent Day and Martin—or some of
him—in a most undesirable way. A hoary Hawera
Maori bravely ordered a flash captain’s uniform
and a gun, paying for both, intending, on his own
motion, to take a cavalcade of 300 Maori braves
across to smite the warring Boer. But a common-
place policeman quenched his martial ardor by
towing him to the lock-up. The brown com-
batant had “borrowed” three £2O-notes from a
chum’s private drawer without the preliminaries
usual in such matters. He is now serving his
bleeding country in another capacity.
* * * * ’
The horrors of the back-blocks drought
are partially brought home to a man when he
hears that on one N.S.W. freehold station, for
which a popular capitalist, some years ago paid
£440,000, and which, in decent times, supported
150,000 sheep, there are now, owing to want of
water, only 4000 sheep all told.
* * * *
Momba station, in Wilcannia district, the
sheep-run with the biggest area in N.S.W., shore
6653 bales of wool in ’BB. The ’9B clip was 3837
bales, and that for ’99 2927 bales. The run is held
by a co. of which the late Thomas Elder, Peter
Waite (by many reckoned the best dry-country
sheep-manager in Australia), and R. Barr Smith
are the chief holders.
*'* * *
A Maranoa settler : “We have to draw
water three miles—sometimes eight. The pastures
are as black as your boots—not a beast left alive.
This state of things has continued three years,
but farmers don’t rush into print. You talk
about heroes that go to the Transvaal, but a
Maranoa farmer is a greater hero than any of
them. No crops; stock dead ; wife and children
drooping for necessaries ! ” The band will now
play “ Soldiers of the Queen ! ”
* * • »
“Yucca”: Was visiting a backblock
station some years ago; and often talked with the
gardener, a quiet, simple-minded old Englishman
and very clever at his trade. He was a widower
with some half-grown children. Asked him if he
had not thought of remarrying and he replied
“Yes, I was once within sight of a second missus.
She was governess here —to the boss’s little kiddies
—and she wasn’t young, and she wasn’t good-look-
ing, and as for rats—well, it wasn’t one she had,
it was a whole nest. But she took to me properly,
an d said she loved _ the children, and was always
snuffin’ round helpin’ them, and one day she just
put it straight to me—‘would I marry her,’ cos, if
so, she’d marry me. I thought it over a bit, for I
couldn’t abear hurtin’ her feelin’s, then I said
‘l’m much obliged to you, Miss, but, no, I
couldn’t stomach you, Miss.’ ”
# » * *
~ xrm „ . , „
-Ciller : A town man of my acquaint-
ance showed a bush fnend round the city and
filled him up with so much valuable misinforma-
tion about the Governor living at the top of the
Post Office tower, and the policeman on Circular
Q uay being Premier Lyne, that the bushman
swore vengeance. When the town gent returned
the visit at his farm he assured him, among other
knowledge, that a pumpkin was really an emu-
egg, an( j jf kept warm for three days it would
hatch out. The city man was so impressed that
he surreptitiously annexed a pumpkin and slept
with it in the bed for four solid nignts to keep it
warm. By day he put it in the sun so that the
hatching process might go on, and when the sun
went down, he wrapped blankets round it. At
the end of four days a disgusted city man cast an
unhatched pumpkin down a steep hill. It bounded
about 200 yards, then struck a stone and broke into
pieces. From the other side of the stone arose a
large, shocked, indignant brush turkey which fled
cursing in brush Turkish. And behind him ran
the city man calling out : “ Hi ! come back !
What are you afraid of ? I hatched you ! I’m
your father! ”
* * * *
“Trotter” : jRe correspondent from the
way-back. I was in Farina (S.A.) in the early
part of ’99, and was talking to a cocky about the
long drought. The sky was overcast, and I hap-
pened to mention that I thought we would have
rain. They had a five-year-old boy who had never
seen a shower, and this was the unique exclama-
tion he made : “Can I go and see the rain,
mother ? ” He had a vague idea that it was some
new kind of animal that would presently appear
over the ridge.
“ Flabby P.” : Re
ticks (“ Licensed Sur-
veyor ” B. 10/2/’00).
Have had nearly
every kind of tick
on me and suffered no
ill results from any;
except the “scrub
tick ” which has a
beak that looks, under
a microscope, like the
“ sword ” of a sword-
fish. This insect
causes much agony to
dogs, which generally
go into convulsions
just before death. It
is black, and never
larger than half a pea
—not quarter the size
of a large cattle-tick.
It is sure death to
foals, but I have
never known it to kill
either a horse (full-
grown) or a man,
though I have known
a man laid-up 10 days
through one getting
on his neck.
“H. E. Mac”:
I was recently sitting
round a camp-fire
with some others,,
when a frog jumped
straight into the fire
and wa - cremated.
A few minutes later
another frog did the
same—then a third ;
and after that we
must .have prevented
about a dozen from
commi ti ing suicid e.
Any tame naturalist
explain this ?
* * *
At Breadalbaue,
N.S.W., the other
day, a man found on
the road a sft. 6in.
brown snake with
12in. of a lead-colored
one (2ft. 6in. long)
down its throat. Both dead; and no external
sign of injury on either. Presumably, either the
big one had taken on too large a contract; or the
little one had shown his disapprobation by biting
the other’s “innards.”
* * « *
The boss sent the new-chum sailor-man
from the hay-paddock to bring alor j the horse and
dray. The collar and hames had been taken off so
that the horse could feed without being pig-yoked.
The sailor-man backed the horse in and hitched
the breeching-straps to the shafts. As it was
down hill to start, all went well at first, but at the
first “ pinch ” the horse, much to his own surprise
and satisfaction, walked out of the shafts. The
sailor-man carefully backed him in again, made
fast as before, and told the moke to “git up’’—
which he promptly did, and out, too. The sailor
scratched his head, and
tried again, with the
same result. Then
that disgusted mariner
went over to the boss
(who had been watch-
ing the circus, and
was rolling on the
grass almost in fits)
and remarked, “ I say,
mister, do you gum
the horse in, or now
do you do it, any-
how ? ”
* • *
“ Ree ” : “ W.”
(B. 24/2/’00) is mainly
right anent nocturnal
horse-bells. But then
they were not “ W.’s”
horses. Perhaps
“ W.” has never
• banged his head on
the axletree ceiling, in
a sudden awakening
to the absence of the
nightly tinkle. There
is a soothing, drowsy
draught in the full-
throated tonk tonk of a
bull - frog bell; the
carrier hears it in his
sleep, and a holy calm-
drifts over his dusty
soul. But when he
hears it not he rolls out
of his airy bunk, has
“a look around,” and
curses aforesaid calm
right into the stellar
spaces. Horses in
these days of fences really stray further into
the byeways, and are harder to find.
• * * *
Editor Bulletin. —ls the intense mor-
bidity of the average bush person the effect of a
dull, brown environment streaked with neutral
grey, or of sheer blank ignorance, or what ? I had
recently to paper a room, the walls of which were
already plastered with newspaper illustrations of
various horrors of the past in chronological order.
On the right were illustrations of the Hall trial
for wife-murder, with a picture of the corpse
hanging over the tub. On the left were illustra-
tions of the Butler case, and on the wall facing
the entrance was a large picture of the late estim-
able Mr. Deeming, surrounded by those of his
victims. I covered the walls with a pretty paper
—blue roses on a bottle-green ground, but the
lady of the house evidently considered it too
cheerful, for she hastened to hang on it pictures of
TRAVEL EXPANDS THE VIEWS.
RURAL PARTY (reads) : “'Mummy of Egyptian, 3000 years old.' My
word, live and learn! I alters thought Methuselem was the oldest
feller that ever lived !”
people with their hair in flames or holding in their
hands portions of their innards, and other such
comforting items.
•’**'*
Mick, well known on the ’Bidgee a few
years ago, had a trick dog, Baldy, a bit above the
average. On Saturday afternoons while Mick was
having his weekly dip, Baldy would carry his
clothes from the river bank to his tent and replace
them with clean ones. Among numerous other
tricks he would bring a billy of water from the
river, pick out any coin asked for from a halfpenny
to a sov., and go to Mick’s tent and bring any thing
he demanded from a box of matches to a sock,
Heard Mick relate how, when suffering e recovery
after a big spree and stone-broke, he sent
Baldy up to the township to get him a reviver,
Baldy dodged about the pub. till the bar was empty,
PASTORAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are willows on the mountain,
There are crayfish in the dam,
And the bottle-thirst is on me
And I don’t know where I am.
The birds are chirping merrily
And roosting in the trees ;
The faint sweet scent of neroly.
Comes to me on the breeze.
The dandelions roaring,
In the usual sort of way ;
The girls are milking moo-cows
And the men are making hay.
They wonder where I am, perhaps—
My leave was not allowed.
I’m in the front bar-parlor,
And shouting for the crowd.
O.T.H.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
PRESENTATION
WATCHES
P. & A. Guye’s Watches
Are second to none the world over.
Direct from the Manufactures to the User.
We are their Sole Agents.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
m
20
GUINEAS
LONDON
MADE
LEVERS.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
then sndaked in, leaped on counter, reared up on
his hind legs, dropped his fore paws on to shelf at
back, grabbed a flask of whisky, and off down to
Mick as hard as lie co ild run. Writer Ventured
to doubt it, but as Baldy in the meantime had
been through him for a handkerchief and several
other things he began to think there might be
something in it.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Re H. J. Mac’s par.
(8., 27/1 / 00) and the superb tiger snake that, after
being “ s lythed ’" in two, chased and bit the smart
young man near Blayney. lam a whale for de-
tails, and shall esteem it a favor if Mac will tell us
which end (or was it both ends ?) of the snake pur-
sued and bit the man ? Also, I want to tell him
‘ h p\„'T h | . term V lS ' “Afanthopis antarctica,”
Rseudechis porphyriacus,” “Hoplocephalus bun-
garoides,” Ac., are unnecessary, ugly, and likely to
cause bushmen to use other nasty words.-X.
*** J *
“ n ,i,>> rv ,1 i i
G bung .It was the snake season, and
a ropy reptile of extraordinary size had been seen
near my palatial humpy. As near as I could cal-
culate from conflicting evidence it varied m
length from 10 to 2,oft. All the trouble in the
neighborhood was put down to the eccentricities
of that serpent. Our hens suddenly stopped
laying—the snake had frightened ’em. Thomson’s
windows got smashed—the snake again. Jones’s
boy was fished out of a water-hble, half-drowned —■
the snake had shoved him in. It was even said to
be responsible for O’Grady’s twins, which unex-
pectedlv arrived into a heartless world at 2 o’clock
one morning. That miserable reptile got on my
nerves so that I could get no sleep at night. Then
one muggy evening I heard a row in the fowl-
house—the serpent was up to some devilment or
other. Rushing into the yard, I trod on some-
thing long and soft—something that squirmed—
and instinctively divining what it was, I endea-
voured to jump aside. But I fell, and the snake
was on me. I felt its cold, slimy body slithering
over me, while its foetid breath—smelling like a
blend of cat and stale beer—struck a cold, deathly
chill through me. Then commenced a frantic
struggle. I madly tore at it, breaking my finger-
nails, and then, gripping , with both 1 lands, tried
to crush it. I might as well have tried to crush a
manilla rope. Slowly and gradually I was
becoming spent, and a piercing shriek broke from
me as I felt my senses going and the long, cold
enemy getting on to-). Then my wife brought a
light. Iha 1 torn the india-rubber garden hose
almost to rugs.
IF HE CLEARED THE PUBS.
SWAMPER : “Shay, cons'able, think I could get to th’ hie railway
station—hie— thout getting wet through—hie ?”
CONSTABLE: "Yis' if yez keep in the middle av the road all
the way !”
“W.M.F.”: For information of “Xerxes"
(B. 24/2/’00). The bilby is probably the least-
known animal we have, as it remains under-
ground during the day, and feeds only at night.
It bears much the same resemblance to a kangaroo-
rat as a thoroughbred horse does to a hackney,
being light, clean-built and graceful. Color gene-
rally silver-grey, sometimes with a bluish tone.
The young are possibly striped (like emu-chicks),
as sometimes indistinct stripes are still visible on
the animal. The bilby has been known on the
Barwon since before the appearance of the white
man in that part, and, as rabbits only arrived in
the district in ’BB, the bilby is not, as ‘ ‘ Xerxes
suggests, a cross between the kangaroo-rat and
rabbit. The fur is beautifully soft and silky, and
is said to be valuable. The flesh is tender, and
greatly relished by the aborigimes—when they
have the luck to get hold of any.. The bilby on
the Barwon lives (like the rabbit) m two distinct
styles. Where there are natural holes along the
river he takes up his dwelling in one, and only ap-
pears when forced out by floods, but out-back, m
the sand-ridges, he digs his own camp. Like the
rabbit, too, he seems to be able to live comfort-
ably without water. His food is mainly roots.
He is a hard animal to track, harder to find, and
hardest of all to learn anything about.
* * • *
“L.J.”: The bilby (“W.M.F.,” B.
10/3/’00) is not a shy animal. It will visit a camp
at night and pick up potato-peelings, bread, &c.
Description otherwise correct.
* * • *
“Iota”: lam well acquainted with the
animal “ Xerxes ” (B, 24/2/’00) calls the “bilby.”
Have dug it out in the Darling neighborhood, and
it is now common also on the Lachlan. Its exist-
ence should be protected by law, on account of the
beauty of its fur, if for no other reason, and
specimens of the animal should be procured for
Sydney Zoo, where a sandy hillock sown with
herbage indigenous to their native habitat .might
be enclosed for them to burrow in, and their life-
history written by skilled observers.
* * # *
“Mallee” : We were camped in an old
homestead on the bank cf a river, and the place
was crawlsome with snakes. One night I heard
the unmistakable greasy slide of one on the floor.
My bunk was rigged on one side of the fireplace,
and the boss, Johnson, had his on the other.
Fumbling on a shelf, I knocked over the matches
I was after, and called to him for a light. After
hearing my explanation he said, “ I’ve not got any
matches. Why don’t you feel for them ; they
can’t be far.” I wasn’t taking any, however ; and
when, in response to yells, one of the men brought
a light and a stick, the reptile had gone. Then
Johnson gassed of what he’d have done.
To test Ins pluck, we rigged a stuffed skin
on the ceiling-frame just over his head, se-
cured it with guides and backstays, and rove
a string under the floor to my side so
that I could control the fake. Next night,
after the lights had been out a few minutes,
I called out that the snake was on deck
again, and was somewhere over his side. We lit
up, and after a look round I shouted, “ There he
is, over your head, just coming down the stud-
piece ! ” Johnson gave one look, leaped for
the door, and sped oat undressed into the dark-
ness. When he came
back, after calling out
several inquiries whether
we’d got him, we had all
traces cleared away and
reported that the crawl-
some enemy had got away
behind the lining. Next
day, the boss left camp,
and did not return until
we shifted further up the
river, and he’d spent most
of the interval extracting
thistles from liis feet. Soon
after, he described the in-
cident to some ladies at
a picnic said that the
snake dropped from the
roof on to his bunk, and
t .iat he’d rolled the blanket
round it and held on, until
someone came along with
a stick and killed it. This
world is terribly given to
“ Tassy ” : The other
day, at work, a male got a
splinter of stone in his eye ;
caused him much pain, and
defied all attempts at re-
moval until an old hand
lifted up the eyelid and
licked the offending particle
out with his tongue. A
safer and more sensible
method than a pencil-point
or knife-blade.
The talk had turned
from drought to boggy
tracks when the hitherto
silent Gippslander said:
“Was once padding back
o’ Whitelaw’s, an’ saw a
man moving along a chock -
an’-log fence an’ flogging
the slush with a bullock-
whip. Wondered wot ’e
was up to, but all of a sud-
den two bullocks scrambled
out o’ the slush, then
the rest of a team and
at last a load o’ spuds.
Then a cocky took a hand :
“Last winter a neighbor
of mine bought a traction-
engine. Got it bogged
an’ went for help. When
he returned it wasn’t there,
and this summer a man
struck his toe agen wot looked like a billy-lid
stuck in the road surface. Turned out to be the
spark-arrester of that there engine.” Then the
yarns began to get wild and improbable.
* * » *
Recently arrived at Port Chalmers (M.L.)
a train-load of 120,000 frozen rabbits for shipment
to England. The possibilities of bunny are only
beginning to be realised.
DROUGHT TIME.
MR. JUMBUCK (to barmaid) : " And when will you favor our station with a visit?"
SHE: “ I hear that all your cattle are dying from ticks.”
MR. JUMBUCK: “No; all the ticks are dying for the want of cattle!"
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
G-. : Question if any Italian thinks the Pope
will ever preside over a Republic of Italy. . For one
thing, the Republicans Wouldn’t have him...
Oon • This is the cycle of the bush militarism. 1. The
squatters and banks cut down the bushmen’s wages to
starvation pitch. 2. The squatters and banks subscribe
the money they have saved on wages to equip bushmen
for Africa. 3. The bushmen whom Fat has starved go
away well-paid to fight for Fat. 4. To make up their loss
bv subscriptions the banks' and squatters cut down wages.
G.W.D. : Miles off our track.... Sylvia : Little poets
mustn’t rhyme dawn with morn ; big poets may do as
they darned well please. (Considering sketch.)
J.S.W. : If so weary of our “old gags about the war”
why do you send more gags about the war? Why
not help to smother the subject by maintaining a
talented silence? Tired Tommy : These jokes make us
tired without the Tommy A.K.B. : The N.S.W. chief
medical officer, Dr. Ashburton Thompson, may make
mistakes here and there, but he has shown himself to be
an energetic and intelligent enthusiast whose life-
interests are centred in his official work
Many B.: Your question is, after all, but a variant of that
asked many years ago in N.S.W. Supreme Court by the
present Chief Justice, then Mr. Darley, Q.C., who ap-
peared against Tiie Bulletin in a memorable libel-case :
“ Why can’t this paper (The B.) give us wholesome fun-
like Punch ? ” The answer was easy—it can be read on
the tombstone of Punch (if Punch has a tombstone). The
Bulletin wasn’t established to sing choruses O.W.J. :
Thanks O. MacW. : Roberts would certainly not have
asked Cronje to break bread with him had he known him
to be guilty of the deeds you impute ; and, as for Joubert
—why, after the war, if they can get him to London, they
will no doubt give him a banquet and roar “ Jolly Good
Fellow.” The Britisher doesn’t bear malice like that;
he’s always ready enough to feed with his beaten enemy.
lgnorant: Before the present war any British or
other alien could be naturalised in the Transvaal and get
a vote for the Lower House after two years’ residence by
registering himself with the Field Cornet, paying £2 fee,
and taking oath of allegiance.. ..A Unionist; But we can’t
heave these off-hand charges of embezzlement around
without evidence... Phil Log: But “Joss” is not a
Chinese word at all. It is merely a Chinkee rendering of
“ Dios,” the Portuguese for God... .Kurnalpi: Won’t re-
open the question. Neither H. J. M‘C. nor any other
competent observer ever denied the existence of a claw-
like terminal to the tail, but it has been demonstrated
repeatedly that this has no venomous uses E.A.: W.
N. Willis, Member for the Barwon (N.S.W.) is understood to
have originated the Bushmen’s South African Contingent
idea C. Warren : A well-written bit of tragedy Joe
Rocks: Not bright enough in the descriptive way... Otago:
Kind of story which requires footnotes and diagrams.. ..
Thirsty : Europe, 3,670,100 square miles; Australia,
3,014,100 square miles....'J.H.F. : Thanks.... Kliami:
Can’t trace poem at present Wylie: “Wooing” not
without traces of gift, but rather flat in style. Verses
have no particular strength or distinction Marie Stan :
Not quite up, but you seem on the right track. ...Sphinx :
Had hopes of it at first —not fulfilled Ben Sun :
“ O’Mog” too long and lean, and too like verses already
published. “ Hypocrite ” well-worn theme and unequal
handling William J. : The merit of “Refugee” is in-
deed rugged, but it suggests force in places... .Allan P. :
Good idea, but would need more elaborate development.
Pars should be cut out and sent in monthly E.R. :
Variant of same weary old gag... .T.G.F. : Not enough
in them... .T.W.M’G.: Same to y0u.... Domino :We
never print such letters except from the originals—it’s so
easy to invent things of the sort J.J.M. : Allathese
“jokes” have been made before... .T.H. : Thanks....
Flabby Paul: “To shut a horse’s moil th for two weeks
would be to kill him.” But that was exactly the point.
Bushman : But then don’t forget that some people
carry pistols, and the man who systematically carries a
pistol never produces it except to shoot... .Byrie : Un-
printable ; though it would be quite true in face of the
recently-issued N.S.W. birth-statistics... .Morrie : (1) We
don’t know, and can’t find out. (2) Cronje, with 4300
men, surrendered to Roberts with 40,000 or 50....P.5.
(Tas.): Thanks Vengeance Is Mine: Painfully crude
fragment A.O.W. : Ten different kinds of common-
Slace Conroy’s Gap : Horrillle tale of gore. . .P.D.M. :
[any thanks for letter... .R.A.B. : One verse of your
pomelet:—
M.B. : The British are overcoming the Boers by
sheer force of numbers. The Boers have put up a
plucky fight, but three to one is too long odds—
and that’s not reckoning on Long Bill Lyne
J.R.Z. : Prefer better-disguised Flossiedom Paper-
knife : But then “ Chambers’ Cyclopaedia ” killed Ruskin
long ago. See the article, “ Lake District,” vol. vi. page
485 : “At Brantwood, near Coniston, Ruskin resided
during the later years of his life.” Published in 1890....
Raspberry Land : The Bulletin is not “ merely an instru-
ment for making money ” —if that were its sole object it
could make much more money. But it makes and
has made enough money to enable the men who run it to
continue to bluntly express their political and other
opinions without fear or favor, as they have always done.
Also, this paper has behind it a more numerous, wide-
spread, and solid constituency than any other Australa-
sian newspaper whatsoever, as you can easily see if you
travel round. How many copies of the weekly papers
named do you see outside the provinces in which they are
prinfed? San Remo : Yes ; should be interesting ; but
we don’t undertake anything... .Jack : The Bulletin
doesn’t want to impugn “ British pluck ” —which is
as good as any other pluck. This paper’s point is
that thousands of brave men on both sides are being
slaughtered in the sordid interests of mere huckstering
on a large scale Tan R. : Neither precisely usable
Merco : We don’t exist for the purpose of enabling
ornamental amateur soldiers (who wouldn’t for a
second relax grip of their only hope, their Parliamentary
billets) to explain how sorry they are that their proffered
services for South Africa weren’t accepted....L.G. :
“ Truth,” good idea, hardly well enough handled.
“ Retribution,” not ill-written, but turns on hackneyed
situation W.M.F. : Your “ Retribution,” will consider.
Amb. G. : Re public-library management: send it to
a daily. (2). Only amounts to fact that he took a possum
for a koala... .Texas :No value O.O’M. : Fair descrip-
tive power doesn’t compensate for complete absence of
“story” L.A. : Told with taste and terseness, but there
isn’t enough to tell Franklyn H. : Has spirit, may use.
Qui Hai: Main incident good, but too much subsidiary
matter, and style too formal and conventional Ben-
Gene : Dream-yarns need to be at least 22-carat. Yours is
about 9 C.R.J. : Will inquire. One was answered
27/l/’00... Bendee : “ Bait-box ” theme old and unsavory...
G.W.H. : It isn’t that words fail us ; we have too many of
them John W. : Way down J ames H. : Never heard
of book called “The Chevalier.” Uloola: Cleverly
rhymed; but not intrinsic interest enough C.N.B. :
Neatly done; not quite enough force for print Pan:
“Which” flat C.S.J. (Lond.): Sorry none usable
K.S. : Returned E.M. : “ Alass ! ’twass ever so!”
pleases us. Are you Welsh? Sentinel: Challenged.
F.H.: No use for our print W. (Eng.): Such
articles not in our line ; send short, bright pars
S.P.Q.R. : Not up Z.E.H. : Worthless Wap-wo.:
Better take a long rest; we both need it F.I. : The
exact expression of contempt eludes us Marah : Truly.
Cecil Warren: Will print “H. 8.” B. : In 1896
there existed in the Rand 200 mining co’s with a nominal
capital exceeding £57,000,000, employing 9375 whites and
over 64,000 colored laborers. The gold production of that
year was about £10,000,000 ; in ’9B it had already risen to
£17,300,000 W. Parker : Thanks Makro : Well,
when you have to fight for Australia, may you fight as
bravely and as well as the “ dirty, ignorant Boers” have
fought for their fatherland!
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W. T. C. : Very good indeed R.W.S. : Doesn’t really
matter in what medium you submit your sketches, as you
don’t draw well enough to have any chance of direct re-
production.... E. Mildner : Implication too festive....
L.H.B. : Not a bad drawing, but legend prehistoric
Unavailable W.A.K.. T. O’B., G.G., E.E. (promising
drawing, bad subject), Alfred S. (hackneyed theme),
W.K , C.A.M., A.W. (this paper dislikes “ literal ” jokes),
Won., W.T.C., Tom. W. (neat idea, but offensive if illus-
trated—we admire the feeling of your drawing), A.E.,
P.S.H., Valma, J.H.P.
Blow, blow Oh, Winds,
Oh, sweet South winds,
The dead leaves from my heart,
That there may spring
Beneath the sunshine of her eyes
Love’s flower fair.


A PROPHETIC PICTCHAW— THE “JOHNNY” AITKENSES.
The Commandah of the English Gentleman Scouts’ Goah meets his Brothah-in-arms from Austwaliah: “ A’fully glad to meet you, old chappie; blue blood is thicker than water, you know!”
GENTLEMAN SCOUTS’ CORPS.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE AGE.
Sir,— I am raising a corps of gentleman
scouts, and am anxious for it to be known
that those-anxious to serve their Queen may
have the opportunity. To make the scheme
of sufficient importance, and bring it under the
notice of the authorities, I propose the sister
colonies should each raise as many gentlemen
as possible, and the whole to be formed into
•one federal body, which, on arrival at the
Cape, be attached to such force or regiment as
the military authorities see fit, thus bringing
it under the immediate control of competent
and experienced leaders, which would at once
allay any jealousies or chance of being under
inefficient officers. If you will honor me by
kindly inserting this letter in your valuable
paper I will esteem it a great favor.— Yours,
&a.,
1 JOHN A. AITKEN, Athenaeum Club,
Cth March. Melbourne.


The new Kindergarten system.
/Teaciier : “ Now, let the next boy lire, and do try and aim at a vital part.
And, Private Traddles, how often have I told you not to blow down the barrel of
your piece ? You will remain after school is dismissed and fire 40 rounds- at the
target to help you remember.”
, Here youi have a pupil on his way to school armed to the teeth. The school-
things* 1 °^ 13 cons tructed on principles to meet the new order of
Old way of settling-school-boy disputed..
& ajssfi?: ” iU “A
The new way. *
Playing at hookey will be punished as above.
TEACHING THE YOUNG IDEA HOW TO SHOOT.
In his speech at Hay last week Premier Lyne said the Government would take steps to introduce compulsory military training into the N.S.W. public schools.


HEALTH IN THE BOTTLE.
“D.C.L.” Scotch is a delicious and finely-
blended whisky of excellent flavor, which, while
maintaining all the due stimulating properties of
the spirit, has been mellowed by age into a per-
fectly wholesome and mild beverage.*
Scrubb’s Ammonia is a preparation familiar to
all readers of this paper, and one which should be
in use in every household, as it can be applied to
so many different purposes. When used in the
bath it has a highly stimulating and strengthening
effect; for washing clothes it saves soap and wear
and tear of the garments, leaving them white and
fresh.
Messrs. A. Hall & Oo. of George-Street
Sydney, have issued, for the benefit of all people
who are about to start house-keeping, a ‘‘Furnish-
ing Guide ” of 72 pages. The guide is revised up
to date, and contains price-lists and estimates and
illustrations and all manner of valuable information.
To the people who have limited purses the guide
is a boon and a blessing, as they can cart it out
under the trees of the park and between the spells
of love-making pick out the fittings for the dove-
cot.
The struggle to identify Creswell, the
Parramatta lunatic, as Tichborne seems to be
based mostly on a hazy notion that as Orton,
the fat man who called himself Tichborne, turned
up in Australia, and as Australia was con-
stantly mentioned in the law proceedings because
the bogus baronet came from there, the real
baronet should be, or have been, there or there-
abouts. Yet Australia is about the most unlikely
place on earth to look for Roger Tichborne. He
disappeared along with the Bella and all her crew
on the voyage from Buenos Ayres to New York.
If he got ashore, and resolved to sink his identity
and struggle for a precarious crust in the
world’s back-yard, he might be looked for
in Brazil, or Guiana, or Venezuela, or Mexico, or
among the West Indies. It might even be worth
while inspecting Patagonia. But unless he
drifted 10,000 miles on a hen-coop, living on sharks
which he caught by the way, and drinking rain-
water out of his hat, Australia seems a most hope-
less place in which to search for the crushed
“nobleman.” There is absolutely no connection
between him and this country, and there never
was any. If any one wants to start on the
assumption that Tichborne is alive and deranged,
a search in the lunatic asylums of Brazil and
Argentina might be an interesting experiment,
though why he should be alive and deranged in-
tead of plain dead is a mystery.
Within Three Weeks.
The difference between “Just in time” and
“ Just too late ” is strongly emphasised in the two
following items, both of which have been recently
received. They also emphasise most strongly the
value of self-reliance in matters requiring judg-
ment and discretion.
A well-known professor recently died in
Chicago, who, up to the attack, was to all appear-
ances in perfect health. It was subsequently
ascertained that he had hidden the knowledge that
his kidneys were weak and not acting normally,
and assumed an indifference to his family and
friends that his condition and feelings did not
guarantee.
When taken, with ureamic fits—such as often
characterise a collapse in kidney disease —he ex-
claimed “ It’s too late to do anything now,” and
his consulting physician also said, “Yes, it is too
late.”
The second item is the history of a case of
kidney disease where the patient had recourse to
the only known vegetable specific—Warner’s
“Safe” Cure. Mr. William Bennett, tailor,
Branxton, N.S.W., writes: “I can certify that
Warner’s Safe Cure cured me of kidney complaint,
from which I suffered for five years. My back
was so bad I could scarcely straighten it. After
taking three or four bottles I was completely
cured, and have never been troubled with it
since.”*
Rochester Lodge
Coiiins Place,
Collins Street E,,
m Superior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three mi mites’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'OLELLAND
(ft ce BOLGER).
WAR MEDALS !
AN EVERLASTING SOUVENIR OF
AUSTRALIA’S GALLANT BOYS.
These medals are same size as a shilling' piece. Can be
worn on Watch Chain, Bracelet, or Brooch. They are
beautifully mounted, with Pin and Ited, White and Blue
Satin Ribbon. One side hears the Queen’s head, encircled
with the words, “British Transvaal War, 1899—1900.”
On the reverse is a Mounted Australian Bushman scouting,
who scenting danger suddenly pulls up his horse, and
shades his eyes the better to enable him to discern the
enemy. “Good Luck to Australian Bushmen’s Corps”
forms a border. Price—Rolled Gold, 7d. ; Silver, 2s. Id. ;
Solid Gold, 205.; post paid. Everybody should buy one’
for part of the proceeds is given to the Bushmen’s
Patriotic Fund.
NOT A GUESSING COMPETITION
A RECORD.—We sold
5000 of our Celebrated
WATCHES & CHAINS
at 6/6 in 13 months, and
now to universally ad-
vertise our Famous 4/6
Paraguayan 14kt. GOLD
CHAINS to Every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent’s or Lady’s) we will
Present on Payment of
6/- extra the RAILWAY
WATCH, as illustrated,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
a JEWELLED, - FULL-
w
s
S 3
\
DAY, PERFECT LEVER MOVEMENT, SHORT-WIND
WATCH, wound and hands set from stem, strong and
reliable, same as used on the railways of Great Britain.
Gent’s are medium size, and Ladies’ a perfect little gem.
They give entire satisfaction ; that is why we send them
out on appro., and if returned within 14 days money |is
refunded. These are unprecedented terms. We make
this extraordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE
LIST, and to make ourselves talked about. The Watch
and Chain is sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of
10/6 and 6d. for postage.
H. POTIER & CO.,
24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
For what you are about to re-
ceive, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
Never HAIR
Look
Old
There is no need
of it. You can
look at thirty as if
you are sixteen.
Then why look as
if you are sixty ?
L
Thick and glossy hair belongs to
youth. Thin and faded hair to old age.
mn
H&ir
visor
will make your
hair soft and
glossy, rich
and abundant.
It will keep
your scalp free
from dandruff,
and will surely
prevent your
hair from fall-
ing out.
It Never Fails to Restore the
Natural Color to the Hair
It gives to the hair that soft, glossy
appearance so natural to early life. For
men, this means the look of strength
and power. For women, it is the one
ornament of youthful beauty.
Remember that pimples, rashes, and like
disfigurements of the face may be thoroughly
removed by taking a course of treatment with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It will make the skiD
smooth and the blood rich.
Prepared by Dr. ,1. C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell. Mass.. U. S. A.
3
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
l’ricc, 10s. (i«l.
9
“I’ll Try It.” Sole Agents: The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 G3orge- st,*rSydaey
“ DOWKXDGE’S ”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
“food for Thought.”
A NYTHING which causes a drain on the nerves helps to
make a SUSPENSORY necessary. Excessive mental
effort, prolonged and exhaustive physical exercise, over-
indulgence in any way, dissipation, irregularity of diet,
loss of sleep, anything which produces fatigue has its
first effect on the vital organs. A sick man, or a tired
man, has not much vital vigor, the strain tells on the
most delicate nerves first, fatigue, there produces fatigue
everywhere. Fatigue of the vital organs leaves a man
with little energy, with little strength to work or think.
The connection between the brain and the vital organs
is most direct. Excessive mental work affects the vital
power, and abuse of the vital power affects the brain—a
strain on one is a strain on both. A SUSPENSORY stops
one strain on one. It is not a big strain, but it is there
all the time : it is one little strain multiplied by the
number of seconds in the day. It is a continual drag,
which empties the store of vitality just as a reservoir may
be emptied drop by drop.
We have been saying “A” SUSPENSORY. What we
really mean is a 1
0 OLD
P POINT
0 COMFORT
SUSPENSORY
O-P-C
RMJER&BIRCK
Chics^
SSiss
TAKE THE O.P.C.
Satisfaction goes with it sure. Recommended by the
Medical fraternity throughout the world. Send for
Booklet, FREE.
PRICES.
No. 2 —0.P.0., Lisle Sack, Elastic Bands .. .. 57-
No. 3 „ Silk „ „ .... 77-
No. 4 ~ ~ „ Silk „ .. ..9/-
No. 5 „ Fancy ~ ~ Fancy Silk Elastic Bands 127-
Three Sizes—Large, Medium, and Small.
OF ALL CHEMISTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,
or by post, under plain sealed cover, on Receipt of Price.
Scfld under 1 a positive guarantee to give satisfaction.
BAUER & BLACX, Manufacturers, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Australasian Office :
117 Glarence-strest, SyrSnay, N.S.W
The Union Bank of Australia
LIMITED.
Balance Sheet, 31st August, 1899.
LIABILITIES.
Capital £4,530,000
Less reserve liability .. 3,000,000
Paid up
Reserve fund
Invested as per contra .. £500,000
Balance employed in the
business of the bank .. 250,000
Contingent account
Circulation
Deposits (including* inscribed stock
deposits)
Bills payable and other liabilities (in-
cluding reserves held against doubtful
debts .. ..
Balance of undivided profits
£1,500,000 0 0
750,000 0 0
250,000 0 0
418,051 0 0
14,943,077 19 10
2,063 528 12 5
75,302 12 10
£20,030,020 5 1
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances . ..£3,641,137 18 6
Bulliornon hand and in transitu .. .. 124,925 7 3
Money at call and short notice in London 875,000 0 0
Investments—
Consols and other
stocks of, or guaran-
teed by, the Imperial
Government .. £89,975 10 6
Indian Government
sterling stocks and
Indian railway gua-
ranteed stocks .. 254,314 16 5
British municipal and
colonial and foreign
Government stocks .<
and debentures .. 349,562 11 10
£693,852 18 “
Reserve Fund Con-
sols, £250,000 ; local
loans—lmperial Go-
vernment stock,
£150,000 ; India Go-
vernment sterling
stock, £lOO,OOO .. 500,000 0 0
1,193,852 18 9
Bills receivable, loans and other securities
at London office .. .. .. .. 1,618,041 10 9
Bills discounted, bills receivable, loans
and other securities at the branches ..11,847,229 10 9
Bank premises and property in the colo-
nies 600,471 10 0
London leasehold pre-
mises £142,304 19 4
Reserve against same,
£12,720 17s. lid. ;
six months’ 1 interest
thereon, at 3J- per
cent., £222 12s. 4d. 12,943 10 3
129,361 9 1
£20,030,020 5 1
Statement of Profits.
Balance of undivided profits at 28th February, 1899
Out of which a dividend was declared of ..
Leaving a balance of ..
Profits of the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad and doubtful
£26,848 17 11
debts
Less—
Remuneration to the local directors and salaries
and allowances to the colonial staff .. .. .. £70,218 3 11
General expenses in the colonies, including rent,
taxes, stationery, &c .. .. .. 26,096 0 10
Remuneration to the board of directors and audi-
tors, salaries of London office staff, rent, taxes, sta-
tionery and general expenses 14,275 12
Income tax 781 4
£159,884 16 7
7
4
-£111,371
1 8
£18,513 14 11
Balance of undivided profits at this date
£75,362 12 10
London, 17th January, 1900.
ARTHUR FLOWER,
A. P. BLAKE,
H. P. STURGIS,
Directors.
W. E. CARBERY, Manager.
T. C. 0. SAUNDERS, Accountant:
We beg to report that we have verified the cash, investments, bills of exchange, and other assets in London, and
have had access to the accounts sent to London from the various branches in the colonies, and, having examined the
same, and the books and accounts of the London office, we are of opinion that the above balance-sheet is a full and
fair balance-sheet, properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the company’s affairs, as
shown by the hooks of the company. WHINNEY> gMITH, AND WHINNEY, Chartered Accountants, Auditors.
The Cornstalk Unemployed.
Sydney daily papers recently reported that the
present N.S. W. Government had decided to tackle
that huge and intractable monster, the Unem-
ployed Question. This chronic pachyderm has
been in the road for many years, and one Govern-
ment after another has walked round him and
passed on. When he roared more loudly than
usual he was temporarily placated with jobs on
public works built with borrowed money, but no
serious attempt was ever made at his extinction,
except in Maoriland. There the Government
tried Protection, old age pensions, State farms, a
State labor bureau, the supplying of abundance of
small farms on easy terms—the necessary land
being obtained by the enforced resumption of large
estates, the supply of cheap money by means of a
State bank; and by these and other means it really
contrived to almost suppress the long-standing
trouble. As against this here is Sydney Tele-
graph’s account of how the Lyne Government
intends to deal with the matter :
A long document has been drawn up, containing a
number of proposals, and going into great detail. Officials
are likely to be appointed to carry out the scheme when
it leaves the Cabinet. It is recognised that there are
three classes of unemployed—the able-bodied class, equal
to a fair day’s work at manual labor, and willing to work
if it can be got to do ; then there are unemployed who are
not capable of doing a Hard day’s work, chiefly on account
of advancing years ; and in the third class are embraced
those who will not work in order to live—in other words,
loafers. The scheme sets out that there ought always to
be work available for the first class, either from private
employers or from the State, and such works as railway
lines, water conservation, and so on, are suggested for
the relief of the sufferings of this class. Other methods
will be necessary for the relief of the second class, recog-
nising that the members of it are quite willing to work ;
while for the third class something more drastic, either in
the shape of labor farms or otherwise. What this will be
has yet to be decided.
Which, and much more verbiage, may be con-
densed as follows : There are three classes of un-
employed. Employment may be found for one
lot on public works built with loan money, and it
isn’t decided yet what to do with the other two
classes. Which seems to be just exactly where
Australia has been any time the last 20 years. It
has always been finding work for some of the un-
employed with borrowed money and has never
quite decided what to do with the rest.
A Wave of Patriotism.
Hass all, N.S.W. Lands Minister, had another
day out recently:
Mr. Hass all said a wave of patriotism had spread over
Australia. The response of the colonies had been an
object lesson to the Powers of Europe that if they quar-
relled with England they would have to quarrel with
everyone of the loyal offshoots of that great nation. The
crowning act was performed last Wednesday, when the
Bushmen’s Contingent went away. They were not com-
mandeered, but came from north, south, east and west,
and the difficulty was not in selecting them, but in decid-
ing which to leave out. In the bushmen of Australia they
had the grandest raw material for soldiers that the world
had ever produced. (Loud cheers.) At their review on
Saturday week they had drilled like men who had been
trained for years. The value of these men had been
proved by the Imperial authorities asking for more of
them. They could not get a stronger proof than that.
Lord Roberts has said—Send me as many as you can.
Give him (Mr. Hassall) command of these men, and he
would not give the Boers a chance to get mutton chops
within a hundred miles.
With regard to the “wave of patriotism,” Has-
sall might as well remember that when the Reid
Ministry offered a two. weeks’ job in the way of
painting a fence at less wages than the Contingents
are getting there was almost as big a rush, and an
advt. that 25 policemen are wanted at not much
better pay than the Contingents receive, and
with no glory or excitement thrown in, brings
about as many applicants. In some pro-
vinces an advt. for 50 railway porters
or carriage-cleaners will flood the railway-offices
with as many applicants as there were for inclu-
sion in the first Contingent. Australia is deeply,
intensely interested in the war now; it can’t be
otherwise, because so many Australians are there;
and the Australians are there, either because of
their genuine enthusiasm or because they were
offered better pay than most of them could get
just now in Australia l —or as good pay as they
could get. There wasn’t a sign of any
wide-spread public desire to bear a hand
in the war till the 31s. 6d. a week “and
found” was offered. Only about a dozen or
20 people are known to have tried, by stowing
themselves away or otherwise, to get to the war
purely out of a wave of patriotism and without the
31s. 6d. a week. The Bulletin is waiting to see
a corps raised in Australia at the regular Tommy
Atkins pay—about Is. a day, at which rate this
country could afford to send about three times as
many men, and help the mother country three
times as effectively. That would be a real wave.
■ '
Editor Bulletin.— lsn’t Chamberlain coming it
rather strong when he asks Australia to send
another couple of thousand of its bone and sinew
to keep Law’norder in South Africa ? Personally,
so long as there was danger, there was some sort
of prima-facie excuse for the sending of Australian
contingents to the war j'but now there being reason-
able hope that the end is close at hand, isn’t
it about a fair thing to cry off Jingoism and look
at the matter squarely ? The men whom Cham-
berlain wants are exactly the class of men we
cannot spare. Previous contingents have ex-
hausted tne supply of loafers, gentlemen at large,
and so forth, with some good men thrown
in; but to furnish another 2000 Bushmen will
necessitate the authorities going out into the
by-ways and picking up the young fellows
who are trying, or ought to be trying, to
settle on the land. Of course we have them ; if
we hadn’t Australia would be in Queer-street
pretty soon, and the ’Ome authorities know they
are here, and that one of the bushmen will be as
good as half-a-dozen Tommy Atkins’ in keeping
the Transvaal respectable and peaceable for the
capitalists Wernher, Beit, Eckstein, Roths-
child, Rhodes and Co., in the future. But that’s
not what bushmen are for—we want them to colo-
nise our own land, not to keep the peace in other
people’s. And, that being so, it is about time the
different Premiers dropped their jingoistic skite
about thousands being ready to go to the war?
Verily, the whirligig of time brings its revenges.
England began by exporting convicts to Australia;
now she seeks to ship from that country large
cargoes of policemen. Large and succulent indeed
is the pumpkin that has grown by chance on the
old Imperialistic dunghill!—Vox.
Dear Bulletin.— lsn’t it about time to
abolish the useless and dangerous practice of
removing wounded men from the battle-field
under fire? In fighting savages, who delight in
building fires on the stomachs of the injured
enemy, such rescues are necessary, but with
civilised foes, who tend the enemy’s wounded
with as much skill and care as they bestow upon
their own men, such acts are merely gratuitous
pieces of folly.—H.G. [Modern military science
estimates that the saving of men resultant upon
prompt removal to the “dressing-station” much
outweighs the incidental loss of life.—Ed. B.]
At last the blight is said to be leaving the
Maoriland peaches, which, after a 20 years’ hold,
may be considered most extraordinary. The trees
this year are bearing clear, large fruit. When the
codlin moth leaves the apple the farmers will go
crazy.


get WEALTH^^
. min
35
BUT FIRST GET HEALTH'
ALL THE WEALTH IN THE WORLD IS OF NO USE TO THE
MAN WHOSE WIFE IS A WIDOW.
SCIATICA, LEAD POISONING, AND RHBUMATISM.
BEDRIDDEN FOR THREB MONTHS.
Mr. W. Webber, Proprietor VITADATIO. .
Dear Sir, —For upwards of one year I have owed you a debt of gratitude which no
words of mine can ever repay. Scores of people in this city know that I hav* been the
victim of great suffering for the past eight years from LEAD POISONING, RHEUMA-
TISM and SCIATICA. I tried all patent medicines and liniments I could think of.
At last the Sciatica got the mastery of me, and I COULD NOT TURN IN MY
BED FOR UPWARDS OF THREE MONTHS. I tried the skill of several of our
local doctors, but they did me very little good. I also went to Sydney, and was treated
by several of the doctors, but all ray hopes were doomed to despair, and I returned to
Launceston no better than when I left. . mrinATTn
Many times during those years I was urged by my friends to use VITADATIO,
and now I frankly admit there was an amount of prejudice lurking in my mind against
it, because of it being a local preparation. But the most astounding part of the whole
affair is that eight bottles of your VITADATIO, purchased from one of our local
chemists, effected the great cure in my case, of which lam proud to boast. I have
never been laid up a day from work since the cure was effected. Ido hope that any
fellow sufferer who may read this will be induced to try VITADATIO, and thus prove it
to be a conqueror of pain,
and a positive boon to
suffering humanity. It is
my opinion based on ex-
perience, that the invention
i'KICe: 5/6 and 3/6. Obtainable Every where.
of VITADATIO may rightly be classed as one of
the most valuable discoveries of the nineteenth
century.
Yours very truly,
ANDREW MILLER.
51 Canning St., Launceston, August 30, 1899.
THOUSANDS
RECOMMEND
Webber's
Purely Herbal
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Cheap, Reliable Levers. Unrivalled, 20s ;
Silver, 35s ; Hunting, £2. London Keyless Lever,
25s ; Silver, £2 2s ; Hunters, £2 10s.
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double), £2 10s, £S, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, 5. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Boi k.
LORD WATCH
2. THEE WHEN
mm
MI2SPA
m
A. SAUNDRRS.
Gold Mizpah Ivy Leaf and Heart Motto,
12a 6d ; Silver, 4s 6d.
15c. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies, with
Ivy Leaves, 255. Very cheap.
Latest Style, Solid <*<>l.-1, Good Luck
Brooch, 10s 6d. 15c. Gold, 21s.
B'ImSI
Gold Post Card Charm, Penny
Stamp, 10s ; Silver Gilt, 5s 6d.
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Heart Links, 12s 6d
15c., 255. Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, 20s, 255; 15c. Gold,
355, £2. Monogram on, 2s 6d
extra. Solid Silver, ss.
Links, 9c. Gold, 21s. ; 15c.
Gold, 35s and £2. Silver,
4s 6d.
Other Style, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 16s, 20s.
Silver, 2s 6d, 3s.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Heart, 12s 6cL
9c. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and
Heart, 10s. Special value.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Double-cut Diamond,
£2. Splendid value.
A. SAUNDEES.
Gold Century Brooch, 15s. Latest Rage.
A. SAUNDERS.
16c. Gold 2-Bar Scroll, Diamonds and Sapphires
or Rubies, £2 10s. Very strong.
A. SAUNDERS’
Pearl Set Bird, 3 Bells and Chain Gold
Brooch, 13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 15c. Gold,
Diamonds, £2 10s and £3.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Similar Pattern, 255.
Pure Diamond Hand
Rings.
15c., 30s ; 18c., £2,
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 25s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d; 15c. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £los, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
A. SAUNIJER.S (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
15c. Gold Wish-Bone and
Nots, only 15s.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS’
Lucky Wish Bone and Arrow Gold
Brooch, 12a 6d ; Ivy Leaf, 10s.
KINDLY
CALL.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
lilver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3,£4, £s*
Superior Quality, it, Hi, Xa, tw.
All Guaranteed.
TRY
US.
...
Gold Envelope
Twopenny Stamp
Charm.
Any Name, 12a 6d.
Silver Gilt, 6s 6d.
Qln
Fo£
Solid Gold Charm
that charms, 10s 6d,
Procured only at
A. SAUNDEBS.
df
Gold Bracelet, 4 Opals and Pearls, very neat, £2 15s.
I=o-0
Gold Bracelet, Opal and Rubies, £2 10s
LATEST LADIES’ RAGE.
Registered “Gold Sword” and Spray Brooch, 13 Pearls,
Ruby, or Sapphire, and Diamond, 255.
Without Diamond, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, 12 ss.
A. SAUNDERS. New Century Gold Brooch,
Diamonds and Pearls, 20s.
Gold Brooch, 7 Opals, 14 Pearls, 355.
Bracelets to match, £2 15s.
A. SAUNDERS. Registered 90. Gold Amethyst.
Brooch, 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires, or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, £3and £4.
Send for Size Card.
'■ii:!' mm
■m
18s. Solid Gold, extra
strong and heavy, one
or three diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £'3, £4.
Tj
2-Bar Gold Brooch, Red Stones and Pearls, 20s.
9
Gold Good Luck Bells.
4s 6d. 3s 6d. 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
HIGH-CLASS I.EADIN & JEWELLER & B “ lT **’
mgpi AY OF PRESENTS IS A PANORAMA OF LOVELIIM
015 George-atreet <NEAIiLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
Bert Changed His Mind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Father had “ made a punch.” That was his way
of expressing the fact that he had written a £3OOO
life for the insurance co. Being Xmas week, the
“lift” was all the more acceptable. Mother
planned out enough investments to swamp the
whole of the commission. The girls were to have
new rigs-out, from head to toe. Then a fiver had
to be sent to Bert. He had gone away on a
Labor Bureau ticket, and was stranded once
again—somewhere out Goodooga way, this time.
Bert only wrote occasionally—in lead-pencil, and
evidently using the ground as a table. There
were always holes in the paper—where the pencil
slipped through. When Bert didn’t write, he
wired—“collect” wires, worded in the most pathe-
tic strain. He always came home penitent and
thin. Three weeks after returning, he was cocky
again, and talking of going out back once more.
By the time mother had sent Mag—poor Mag
had made a mess of her marriage—five pounds,
and father had got a new smt, there was not much
Bert arrived home on Xmas Eve, and, on seeing
father’s new suit, remarked, on the quiet, tnat
“Father looked like a blanky squatter down for
the races.” Splodger, an old sheep-dog wou d
not let father in through the back-gate for yearly
a week. Father had not had really new clothes
for five years. , ,
Bert was very flush of money when he came
home. We puzzled over it for a while. I hen
someone found a drover’s pass, from Bourke, m
his room. He had got down free, and stuck to
the cash." Father made Bert disgorge the balance.
Father wore new tan boots next day. oplodger
was found dead in the yard the day after.
Mother said she wished Mag and her husband
could get down for Xmas. Father said nothing
would please him better than to have five minutes
conversation with Slayman—Mag’s husband.
Bert, who was always in town looking for a
“ job,” came home one day in an excited condition.
He had met Slayman in George-street. Bert
wanted to let father know. Father knew. He,
too, had met Slayman. Father stayed at home
for 10 days after that. He couldn’t canvass people
with an eye of that color.
Bert got a billet soon after Xmas, travelling for
a sewing-machine firm. Mother said he should
let her have a machine on easy terms. Bert did.
He saw mother at breakfast every morning, but
never mentioned business matters. Every lues-
day he drove up to our house, rang the bell, and
asked if mother was at home. Mother always
was, and would bustle up to the door. Then, for
a half-hour or so, fragments of a heated conversa-
tion would be wafted down the hall towards the
kitchen. ,
“I really must ask you to settle this matter,
madam. . . There are ten weeks’ instalments
overdue now. . . Your husband has a good posi-
tion. . . Two of your sons working. Gan t they
help you ? 5
Mother would glare at Bert and say, “ Don’t be
a fool, Bertie ! Go away at once; the people next
door will hear you.”
Bert would insist on treating mother as an utter
stranger, and used to resume his arguments.
Father dropped in one Tuesday just as the usual
battle at the door was at its worst. Father never
would look on anything as a joke. Five minutes
afterwards Blank and Co.’s van was seen going
down the hill at an awful pace, was pulled up at
the police station, and Bert got out. Father got a
summons about the end of the week. Mother
squared the case, but the sewing machine was
taken away.
Bert lost his billet. He made a great show of
rolling up his swag—before mother and the girls—
on the dining-room floor.
Father said he had heard of a mountain of rock
salt somewhere down South. “He wished he was
young again, he’d have a slap at finding it.”
Bert wasn’t having any. “I’m on the track
again,” he remarked, “got two jobs to go to,
wool-rolling, twenty-five bob a week and tucker.
Better than this hole. S’long. I’ll write from
Brewarrina.”
Father looked hard at Bert, and replied:
“ Mind you do write. No more infernal collect
wires come to this house, if I know anything about
it.”
Bert put his swag down, and said he reckoned
he’d make a start first thing next morning.
That was five months ago. Bert is still at home.
JINDA.


iftE Favorite
WHISKEY.
CEO.ROE&C?'?
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEAGHER&C
82 A PITT ST.'
SYDNEY.
ASK
FOR
S^BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
Khaki Blend & Billy Tea
. . ARE LIKE . .
THE BRITISH FLAG & CONSTITUTION !
THE LONGER USED—
THE BETTER APPRECIATED.
Still Everywhere Advancing:
Well to the Front!
AN APOLOGUE:.
An outworn ass mistook the flapping of his own exuberant
ears
For a portent that would quite subvert The Grand Old
British Flag !
His answer comes in an united empire’s loyal cheers,
And the Growing Isolation of a certain rabid, ruddy
“ rag.”
JAMES INCUS & CO. LIMITED.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT€R BRAPLCy * CO.,
Furniture cmd Fine A.rt A ucttoneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
gdf
C SKILFULLY FITTED SPECTACLES.
All Sights. All Prices. Send for Sight Tester, “Free.”
Field and Opera Glasses, Telescopes, Microscopes, Reading Glasses, Barometers, Thermometers, Hydrometers, Levels, Compasses, Rain Gauges. Wind
Gauges, Ear Trumpets. Prescription Orders skilfully fitted. SIGHT TESTED FREE.
Geo. C. Penboss, 119 Pitt-street
(between Herald
and G.P.O.
),
Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A strangely-assorted political : the
each - the - other - two - admiring, John Forrest,
Tommy Walker and Hairy Vosper, of W. A.
Premier M‘Lean, of Victoria, is one of the
few who declare that Westralia will still be an
original State in the Commonwealth. M‘Lean
feels sure of Bigjohn Forrest, having “seen signs”
at their last interview of his coming round.
In the opinion of a very prominent
member of N.S.W. Opposition, the Lyne Govt,
has already supplied ample material for a vote of
censure, and if the war-fever has abated when the
House meets, he prophesies an immediate and
successful attack.
The whirligig oil time and its revenges. It
is very possible that the Australian bush con-
tingents, now on their way to South Africa, will be
asked to stay for mounted-constabulary duty after
the war. Originally, Australia’s chief import was
lags. I£-aw, she exports large quantities of police-
men.
Tasmania takes little interest in a general
election even for the less completely dead House
of its local Legislature at Sleepy Hollow by the
Derwent. Out of 38 seats no less than 13 are un-
aontested this time, and in one or two cases even
the solitary candidate was raised with some
difficulty.
The Vic. school papers are being devoted
to the work of spreading the bitterly-prejudiced
and ignorant views of the South African war
entertained by officialdom. This shows that in
one respect at least the books which the papers
have largely displaced were safest for the purpose
of education. If the papers are to be made a
medium for disseminating current claptrap they
will become absolutely poisonous to the young.
The designation of Lord Ampthill as
Governor of Victoria in succession to Brasseymay
have more in it than many other newspaper
guesses. Greater than family and social influences
in his favor is the fact that he has been for years
orivate secretary to Minister Chamberlain. Cham-
berlain claims to have led Australia into the noon-
day of Imperialism, and the presence of Ampthill
in the country would intensify the Chamberlain
influence.
When champion 'revolver-shot “Jack”
Hamilton stated in Q. Assembly, some months
ago, that the Lee-Enfields
which had been furnished
co some of the troops made
a deflection of 10-1. to the
left at 900yds., Dickson
(then Premier) called on
che Q. Commandant for a
report. This report stated
chat the rifles were all
right, but the'men had not
become accustomed to
chem. Now , it seems a
serious error has been dis-
covered in the sighting of
che L.-E., and that British
arsenals are working night
and day to rectify it.
About the same time we
were told that oneN.S.W.
command did not possess
one rifle which could be
safely fired with ball cart-
ridge ; and that a large
consignment of rifles pur-
chased by Vic. Govt,
proved to be of obsolete
pattern. Add to all this
the probability that there
is not one really first-class
up-to-date field-gun in the
wnole of Australia, and—
well, the sooner the Fede-
ral Government comes
along, and makes some real'
defence - preparations the
better.
The Indian" Viceroy’s
appeal for famine-fund con-
tributions has so far fallen
upon deaf ears in this
country. Australia has
money to help kill recalci-
trant ' African whites, but
none to feed starving nig-
gers. Slaughter is more
picturesque than philanthropy ; also it pays better
dividends.
Britain puts up its income-tax from Bd. to
Is. in the £, and increases a number of customs
duties to help cover its war bill. They don’t do
things that way here. Not one Australasian
Treasurer dared, despite the patriotic frenzy of the
moment, to suggest increased taxation to cover this
country’s war-bill. But all seven of them said they
had hopes that the natural elasticity of the
revenue, etc., and the boundless resources of this
great country, etc., etc.
The new Victorian Government promises
to have another try at establishing Old Age
Pensions, and a committee has been appointed to
look into the matter. It doesn’t require much
looking into. Old Age Pensions are desirable.
The cost of them can be estimated very closely
from Maoriland’s experience. The method of
administering the Pension Law can be borrowed
bodily from Maoriland. Everything is perfectly
simple—except finding the money. If the
M‘Shiels Government has grit enough to do that
all is well.
The Australian Chinese Herald ar-
dently and urgently supports the Lyne adminis-
tration. It calls Lyne and O’Sullivan “the In-
corruptibles,” but it forgets, if it ever knew, what
happened to another “ Incorruptible ” known to
history: his head was tumbled into the basket by
the very men who, but a brief space before, had
hailed him Incorruptible. Then should Lyne and
O’Sullivan feel confoundedly uneasy and pray to
their respective Josses that the Kwong Yick Wah
Bo should begin to kick and curse, and not to
praise them.
Tasmania has experimentally applied the
elaborate and complicated Hare system of voting
to Hobart and Launceston. It doesn’t seem
likely to go any further. After all the tangled re-
gistration of the voter’s first, second, third, and
fourth preferences, and the counting of contingent
votes, and the calculation of “quotas,” the same
candidates got in every time who would have got
in if there had been no Hare system and only the
first votes had been counted in the old, stupid
way. The Hare system appears to come out of
the same hole it went in at.
Minister for Education Perry (N.S.W.),
who appears to look with favor on the system of
espionage introduced into his department, is a
man who makes laborious jokes, and laughs
heartily at them himself, which shows they must
be good, as he never laughs at any other time. He
was one of the famous Northern Hiver Protec-
tionists who more than once kept the Freetraders
in power in consideration of a large expenditure
of public money on roads, bridges, harbors, and
breakwaters—an expenditure which ran into
millions. Among his qualifications for Ministerial
rank are that he stuck to Lyne in his tortuous
Federal policy, and that he has a safe seat.
He this latest attempt to grab the fore-
shores of Sydney Domain for wharfage. The
Labor-party ought to ascertain who is the real
engineer of the grab, and then people might con-
sider the advisableness of dealing with him effec-
tively. It would be a good idea to pass an Act
declaring all existing parks, and any that may be
formed in future, to be the property of the people
for ever and ever,' and providing that they can
only be diverted from their purpose by the direct
permission and approval of the people expressed
at a referendum. Then no gathering of political
accidents or Cow-Shaking Ministry could give
away the people’s gardens at its pleasure.
FOR CLIMATIC REASONS.
HIM: “ Hullo! been clip piny Fido ?”
HER : “ Yes; poor dear, he feels the heat so—and
the weather has been so hot.”
HIM : “ Why didn’t you clip him all over?”
HER : “ The poor darling is so sensitive to cold,
and the weather has been SO changeable!”
COMPARATIVE VALUES.
VISITING LADY: “ Would Billy like me to buy
him a little brother like this?"
BILLY (with visionary reflections of last Xmas):
“ No, mamma ; buy two fat ducks! ”
In the old days, the Maoriland Naval
Volunteers were largely composed of lumpers,
whose work made them strong and hardy. Nowa-
days what Naval Volunteers they have over there
are chiefly nice young men who only stain their
fingers with ink, and who wear store clothes, and
work inside, and go Naval-Volunteering on
account of the exercise and outings it gives.
The lumpers are not Volunteers now, because
most of the lumpers in Maoriland, as in Austra-
lia, are German, and Dutch, and Scandinavian.
Various papers have complained about this, and
demanded their wholesale sack and replacement
by loyal Australasian lumpers, but it is no good.
Apparently the Australasian won’t lump.
Adelaide Quiz, referred to the other week
as having attacked Basedow, M.L.C., for “dis-
loyalty to the Queen who paid his Parliamentary
salary,” got in reply all-it deserved for its stupidity
—or a good deal of what it deserved, anyhow.
Quiz said that Basedow, who is one of the
publishers of the local Zeitung, ought to be
ashamed, as a legislator, to be connected with a
paper which said such disrespectful things of
England. Whereupon Basedow remarked that
Quiz ought to be ashamed of itself for being con-
nected with a legislator who would say such dis-
respectful things as Hutchison, Labor M.P., said
before the first contingent left. Presumably little
Quiz had forgotten that Hutchison’s name, with
those of his two partners in a printing business, is
on its own imprint!
Coal is just now worth 60s. or 70s. a ton
in South Africa, and if there were ships available
to carry N.S.W. coal there it would be worth
about 255. at the pit mouth, instead of the present
7s. or Bs. ; and Australia (as is pointed out by
Arthur Griffith, of N.S.W. Assembly) would
gather in much coin, and miners’ wages would go
up with a rush. But there are no ships available,
and this suffering country is out in the cold.
Australia has hardly any vessels of its own ; it de-
pends on Britain for shipping to carry its pro-
duce, nnd Britain is using its vessels just
now to hump British coal to the Cape. If
the big Australian coal companies owned their
own ships they ought to be scooping in fortunes
just at present—but they don’t. The Australian
hasn’t got the seafaring instinct, apparently.
It wasn’t particularly good form for Pre-
mier Lyne to so far depart from the dignity and
traditions of his office as to take a seat at the bar-
risters’ table, and that at a most critical stage of
the proceedings, on an occasion when one of his
Parliamentary following was virtually on his trial.
The Bulletin does not suspect that Premier
Lyne, on Thursday last, seated himself next to
defendant Norton, in the Supreme Court, with
any thought how it might influence the jury in
the libel suit of Kugelmann v. Norton; it prefers
to believe that he blundered outrageously, as is his
wont. But what was Mr. Wise doing, consider-
ing his well-known devotion to the etiquette of
office, to permit his political leader to so far forget
himself and his high post ? What would have
happened had Mr. Wise noticed Mr- Want invite
the Premier to seat himself alongside of plaintiff
Kugelmann ?
The Q. Labour press contrasts very
strikingly with the Q. Parliamentary Labour
Party on the war question. The labor
legislators are nearly all dumb dogs ; theone
or two who did stand up having been hooted
and blackguarded into silence. But the
Labor press has been unanimous in de-
nouncing the Transvaal iniquity and has set
a commendable example to the Parliament-
ary party. But the latter gentlemen are
waxing fat and comfortable, and fancy they
see ‘ ‘ Office ” a short distance ahead.
The discovery that it was
Kingston, of S.A., who made the
first proposal of Australian
assistance in the South Afri-
can war, and who after-
wards persistently urged on
the others to do something,
is almost tragic. The only
consoling reflection is that
Kingston did not propose to
send Australians out to
shoot perfect strangers—he
could think of no better way
to strengthen the silken
bonds than by letting the
Australian fleet go out of
Australasian waters.
“Ever since the chival-
rous but lamentable eccen-
tricity of the expedition to
the Soudan,” wrote Attor-
ney-General Wise in Mac-
millan’s Magazine while
the influence of the late
Parkes dominated his mobile
qualities, “ Australia has
been getting closer to the
dangerous current of Euro-
pean politics.” It is well-
known that Wise writhed and
twisted to find a non-committal way
out of the British-Boer question, but Parkes
is dead, and office and current popularity did the
rest. He now yells with Perry.
If some demon of mischief shofild put it
into Joseph Chamberlain’s head to alter the
Federal Constitution Bill by making the Common-
wealth include Westralia without Westralia’s con-
sent, Bigjohn Forrest would probably be the glad-
dest big man in Australia. It would pacify the
Federal party and the Assembly, and however
much the Council and the Provincial Party might
rave it would rave at Joseph—not John. It would
knock both feet from under the Goldfields Separa-
tion movement, save a referendum—which refer-
endum would probably bring out the humiliating
fact that on the Federal question three-fourths of
the population was against the John Government,
deprive the Opposition of a disastrous war-cry for
next election, and save Johm the heart-breaking
job of trying any longer to find out what conces-
sions he really wants. If John could only per-
suade Joseph verbally to put W.A. into the Com-
monwealth by force, and make him understand
that John’s public cursing of Joseph for doing it
was merely a necessary form to pacify the W.A.
Council, John would probably be so pleased with
Joseph that he wouldn’t know what to do with
himself.
Will somebody please decide, which of
these two great authorities is right ? Said Com-
mandant French :
In any case this colony (N.S.W.) and every other colony
in Australia is prepared for defence. No power can land
more than 2000 or 3000 men [yet Britain has landed about
200,000 men in S’Africa, and France dropped 45,000 into
Mexico 35 years ago when ships carried less than they do
now.—Ed. B.]: modern ships cannot carry more. On
the other hand we have plenty of men, and our sea-
ports are well protected. (19/2/’OO at Shining - Billy
Inglis’s.)
Exactly a week after (on 26/2/’00) George Repub-
lican Dibbs, who, according to Sydney Police
Court Bench, owns a whole volunteer corps, body
and bones, guns, belts and clothes, in talking to a
lot of civil servants, took if on himself to flatly
contradict his superior officer. He said :
With our present defence an enemy can sack Sydney in
two hours.
The balance of public opinion is in favor of
Dibbs’s view, and is supported by a paper printed
in London United Service Magazine for Sept.,
1896, which went into the whole question, includ-
ing the selection of officers, not by merit or
capacity, but by political and social influence, and
Sromotion by the same underhand means.
reneral French, whatever he thinks, has to pro-
phesy smooth things, if he wants a quiet life ;
but that magazine paper had some effect, if only
to make him order all his staff-officers to live
within a mile of the barracks so as to be within
call in case of emergency.
The Queen’s sudden determination to
visit Ireland, for the first time since her husband’s
death, bears out recent statements that the war
has had a tonic effect on her aged spirit. Also, in
its political aspect the forthcoming trip to Dublin
(Her Gracious will be quartered near the scene of
the ugly “ Phoenix Park outrage ”) suggests that
the British Govt, has very serious reasons for
promoting loyalty and jingoism in the country
where the Queen’s shilling buys much of the finest
British fighting material. The octogenarian
monarcli—who can doubt it ?—is expected to make
Ireland an easier recruiting-ground than ever.
Irish regiments, says the cable, are henceforth to
sport the shamrock on St. Patrick’s Day, to com-
memorate Mickey’s gallantry in South Africa,
and there is to be a regiment of Irish Life-Guards.
Which is all very nice—and ominous.


' Anything
and
Everything
MUSICAL
AT
PALING’S
PIANOS
ORGANS
MUSIC «*■>
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION
Easy Terms ie you wish.
The
Name
of > ■ ■
PALING
Is a Guarantee against dissatisfaction.
We deal exclusively in Musical Goods.
We can supply anything from a Yiolin String to a
Pull Set of Band Instruments.
We Import direct from the Pactories and pay cash
with our orders.
We pay no middle profits —
Hence our prices are the LOWEST.
You cannot get better value.
EVERY INSTRUMENT GUARANTEED.
CALL or WRITE for
CATALOGUES
g
Pianos
Organs
Music
Violins
Cornets
Banjos
Guitars
Mandolins
Autoharps
Mouth Organs
Accordeons
Concertinas, &c., &c.
Strings and Fittings tor
ATITI Instruments
at Lowest Prices.
H.
C° L™ 338
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
And at
BrisbaQe
Newcastle
YOU CAM SLEEP^^
AND THEY CANNOT CHEAT YOU !
The national (ash Register
is
AN EVER WIDE AWAKE PARTNER.
It eats nothing, costs no wages, yet works perfectly _
M
No Human Eye
Could so thoroughly watch
and check your money,
No Human Honesty
Could be such a guarantee
to customers.
It’s a PARTNER.
It’s a BANK.
It’s a SAFEGUARD.
It’s a FORTRESS.
The 92 Chech Printer.
IT ADDS MONEY, CHECKS MONEY,
SAVES MONEY, MAKES MONEY.
Head Australasian Office—
-393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
•WELCH
First in 1888. Foremost ever since.
Cyclists
will
find
t
Superior
to all
others
either
for Road
or Track
Riding
Roadster Tyres guaranteed for 12 months.
/
SEND FOR A COPY of our artistic Booklet, “All About Dunlop
Tyres for 1900,” posted gratis upon application to
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre go.
Of Australasia, Ltd.,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &e.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
cs»
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
TCT.S,'W.
Mint dePiete|.^|.So.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
174 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
1 SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
The City Mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street ( BHd s e ~ st) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. P.ARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A ccident
and
Guar an tee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. liiabiity.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting goaipy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TDUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loodoo & LaocaSbire
Fire Insurance company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
The Bank of Qorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & (Jo. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350.000
PCRCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSUBANOE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
OPALS • PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
...0F...
Opals, Pearls Sappf>ir^S
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
F ULL VALUE GI YEN.
A. B€NJAMIN ai>d SONS
285 a Little Collins St-, Melbourne-
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRN AMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, March 17,1 p.m.
Gabo, Tuesday, March 20, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., March 24, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
• Gabo, Tues., March 20, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
► Gabo, Tues., March 20, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., March 17, 12 Noon.
► Konoowarra, Tues., March 20, 5 p.m.
Leura, Sat., March 24, 12 Noon.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat,., March 17, 12 Noon.
Leura, Sat,., March 24, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowne, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Oarj>o
booked throuyh.
Cargo for all Ports received Daly.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights (o ail Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Iluddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. M‘llwraitb, M'Kaeharn & Co.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe TrCistccs, €*€cG*orS,
AND
Conjpasjy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount; at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee!
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government, .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .'. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (11 12/’991 .. £3,163,938 10 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M‘Nall, R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 liishopsrjnte Street Within
(corner of Leadenhali Street, E C.)
Bankers : Tbe London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW COUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 278 GEORG IS STRI2KT.
Manager: John M‘Nail.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford with atreney at Wvong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
CITY MUTUAL - FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
'-THE^
Colonial Mutual I>if@
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon- J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
1,950,000 0 0
1,200,000 0 0
1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
• Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Auditors :
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T-Te Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Shipping
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Lalyety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Steamer.
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
MOANA
Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at 1 p.m.
Leave
Auckland.
3158 1 April
3158 May
4000 June
11 April
9 May
6 June
16
14
11
Arrive at
San
Francisco,
May 4
June 1
June 29
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Sleam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N. D. L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antweip and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOIIMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
FOR
Duck Skootiuc*
always use
CANNON ITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled fqr
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried Used Always.
CASHMORE GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS,
GAME BAGS, GUN CASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
Haekham’s Doy and Cattle
Medicines.
SOLE AGENTS—
MM BUS. * HISS, [td.
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney-
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEfIMSHIPCO;
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports ’
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Roekton, Friday,
March 16.
f
S.S. Marloo, Sat., March 24.
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
■S.S. Allinga, Frid., March 16.
For BRISBANE
S
•S.S. Adelaide. Sat., March 17.
NOTE.—This steamer running under contract with the
Queensland Government for the carriage of refrigerated
cargo will maintain a regular weekly fast service between
Sydney and Brisbane, and will connect with the P. and 0.
and Orient steamers. The attention of passengers is
directed to this opportunity of quick transit between
Sydney and Brisbane. The ADELAIDE is a first-class pas-
senger steamer, all cabins containing only two berths.
Best, <(; Cheapest, lionte to Goldfields.
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
L ™-’ Agents, 6 Bridge St. Sydney,
A. U. S. N. Cov. L
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
TD.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackayi
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
■ Passent/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE —B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON-Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto • Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAWNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
fjuddart, Parker ( (Jo’s [lie
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Batis.
CHCINTA Lea. JAPAn.
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. COMPANY, Ltd.
The following favorite Passenger Steamers will sail
from Sydney as under for HONGKONG and JAPAN, via
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(niliiraith,fl)‘Eacltari&Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTB.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collius-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES- ENGLISH
' SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


Some men get ruffled at the merest trifles.
A few days ago a Melbourne man stepped into the
Yarra from the south wharf. A casual constable
on the north bank, hearing a splash, got into a
handy boat and rowed across to investigate.
Nearing the south bank he ran against the rigid
body of a man floating face-down wards towards the
ocean and eternity. This he proceeded to remove
to the morgue. When he got it ashore, the corpse
arose Kk himself, and in an irritated manner
sr'Vhe ssrs
uSy'flabbergSed that for a moment he forgot
torunthe wet person in for being “drunk and
disorderly,” but he recovered himself in time. It
takes a very severe shock to make a Melb.
policeman miss a “case.
Twenty Years’ Dyspepsia
TOOK a hogshead of medicine.
Something' to Think Over.
The Ca.se of
MR. ALDERMAN CROFT.
(Reported for “The Mercury”)
“That’s me!” replied a gentleman of
portly appearance to our reporter at Tighe s
Hill, who was asking for the residence of Mr.
James Croft. Our representative broached
his business at once, pleased at the luck
that had placed him so quickly in the
presence of a busy man. Mr. Croft, we
may add, lives in Mitchell-street, and is one
of the best known residents of Tighe s Hill,
having been for seven years an Alderman of
that place. (
“I have been referred to you, Mr. Croft,
said our reporter, “as one who can speak with
authority on the merits of Clements Tonic. ’
“ That is quite correct, ” said Mr. Croft,
“ and it will give me great pleasure to tell you
what I know. I was a sufferer from indiges-
tion for over twenty years, and a martyr to
that complaint in its severest form. My
appetite was irregular; sometimes I was
ravenously hungry ; at other times I did
not care for my meals. When I did eat, and
had taken a, few mouthfuls, I felt stuffed and
inflated and had the wretched feeling of
repletion. Then would come a sharp
stiff ng pain in my chest going right through
me, and, higher up, I was troubled with
pains under the shoulder blades. At the
least extra exertion I suffered from palpita-
tion of the heart; even as I lay in bed I
could hear my heart go tap, tap, tap, like
the beating of a hammer. My rest was
broken and irregular, I would turn in bed
first to one side and then to the other, and
when I chanced to drop off it would be to
awake again with a sudden start by bad
dreams ; and after that there would be no
more sleep for me that night. Yet, during
the day I was always drowsy ; if I only stooil
still a few minutes and lent against a post I
could dropoff to sleep as I stood. Always
I was tired—tired with doing nothing. And
even when I w'ent for a day’s pleasuring to
a picnic I could rouse myself to no interest
in what w. s going on. All I cared for was to
sit still, stupid like, with no pleasure in life.
There I would sit, in one place, the whole day
long, quite careless and indifferent to the whole
world. Muscular pains in the arms troubled
me after work, and my inside seemed a fair
gas bag of wind that continually distressed
me, and my brain was hardly ever free from
a nasty sick head• che. I noticed that my
distressing symptoms were always worse in
hot weather. This long continued sickness
gradually wore me out, and I lost in flesh as
I lost in energy.”
“ What remedies did you try, Mr. r roft;
for it is certain that you are not one to let
himself drift into that deplorable state
without seeking relief ? ” asked the reporter.
“I should think not! Why, lam sure
that the different medicines and. alleged
infallible cures that I took at one time and
another, would, if put together, fill a
hogshead. I was treated here in turn by
eight of our best local doctors, and they all
failed to give me more than the most
temporary and passingrelief. Finally, I went
down to Sydney ! o consult a well-known
specialist and a man highly esteemed the
medical profession. And in all, this Sydney
visit cost me over eighty pounds, with no
better result following than after the ex-
periments made on me by our local doctors.
Naturally I was very down hearted —one day
more than usual. I may mention that I
suffered at times from a local ailment, and it
was to get treatment for this that I entered
the shop of a Sydney chemist and spoke to
him casually about my terrible indigestion
and its symptoms.”
“ Why don’t you try Clements Tonic ?
the chemist said to me. “ 1 hear in my own
experience of a number of remarkable curts
it has effected in cases like yours.”
“ This advice decided me to buy a small
bottle of Clements Tonic; taking it home I
took a dose. The after sensation of tiiat
first dose was not pleasant; it brought on a
nasty sickly bilious feeling [a sign it had
struck a bad case Which it ultimately
cured.— Ed.] so that I mistrusted my
purchase, and said to my wife, ‘ There s
some more money wasted ; but, ne* er mmd,
I’m going to see that bottle through. In
the train coming back to Newcastle I took a
second dose of the remedy, and felt decidedly
better; and then I understood, what latei
experienced has confirmed, that my feeling
of sickness after the first dose was merely a
sign that Clements Tonic was getting to
work shifting the bile that clogged my
system. After that, I finished taking the
bottle with confidence, continued the
treatment with other bottles, and even at
the present day I would not, in case of
emergencies, be without a bottle of Clements
Tonic in the house. Imy and that I liav e
to keep it locked up, for children are apt to
raid the bottle. It was two years ago that I
first took Clements Tonic, and I was then
only an apology for a man. I weighed ten
stone five oounds, now my weight in good
solid flesh 'is over fourteen stone. lam fit to
do a day’s work with any man, and, though 1
am fifty-four years o' age, willing to swan
anyone in the district as old as myself.
Clements Tonic made all this diffe ence in
me, rapidly and effectively. My indigestion
was cured, I lost the ( ains in the chest and
back, the feeling of inflation and the sick
headache, and I can sleep as sound as a top.
1 am an old sufferer from piles, and I found
Clements Tonic, by improving my general
health, greatly eased the suffering they
caused me. Them are several matters with
regard to Clements Tonic I should like to
refer to. It is the very finest pick-me-up I
know of for gr< at fatigue or over.maulgence.
T ke a spoonful of Clements Tonic in a glass
, f water-there is nothing better. 1 would
give one warning—it you don’t want to grow
teo stout, take it after meals ; for, if taken
before, the appetite you get is smipiy
irresistible. Another thing; when 1 was
under the treatment of. all my various
doctors my diet was restricted in the most
arbitrary manner —I was not to eat this, 1 was
not to eat that; but taking Clements lonic
you may eat ju t what you fancy, and your
cure goes on just the same, borne people
grumble at the cost of taking a course of
Clements Tonic ; but let them try a course of
doctors, as I have done, and, remember,
Clements Tonic will bring them health and
strength again, and they will find it the
cheapest investment that they ever made.
“ Have I your consent, Mr. Croft, asked
the reporter, “to make this interview
“By all means. lam an old resident here
and well known, and I can assure all those
who may read my statement that it is tine
in every detail. ”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
Tamrs Croft of Tithes Hill,Newcastle, m the
Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly and sinceitily
declare that I have carefully read the annexed
document, consisting of five folios and consecutive y
numbered from one to five, and that it con ams and
is a true and faithful account of my hiness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full I;® rin >?
sion to publish the same in any way; and l makethis
solemn declaration voluntarily,and withoutreceivin
any payment, conscientiously beliewiu the san ®
to\f true, ’and by virtue of the °
an Act made and passed in the ninth yeai oft -
other present Majesty, intituled An Act for tie
more effectual abolition of Oaths and Attn
taken and made in the various departments of
Government of New South Wales, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the S '’PP ,
of voluntary and extra- judicial Oaths and Afh
x
V.
Declared at Carrington this 13th day of August, one
housand eight hundred and P
NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
SAUCE.
(TRADE MARK)
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE
The Basis of which is “ MONTSERRAT ” LIME=FRUIT JUICE.
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is found forms a most convenient basis for
a trial It has been pronounced by connoisseurs to be the Best bauce Deiore rue or
It is also half the price of first-class Sauces.
TOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery, writes so far back as 1617, in a treatise c<n Sc
« i dare not write how good a sauce it (Lime-Juice) is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships
waste it in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER SAUCE.
SYDNEY
-Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.; E. Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co.
N EWCASTLE —D. Cohen & Co.
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
The Jolliest Book of the Year.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Rudd. 1
Price 6s,
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF N.S.W.
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
in£TROPOGiTI GXHIBITJOn
Uth to 21st APRIL, 1900.
£4OOl
PRIZES
£4OOO
HORSES, CATTLE, PIGS, POULTRY,
DOGS, WINES,
FARM AND DAIRY PRODUCE.
£l5O Prize
Grand National Electoral Districts
Competition
£l5O Prize
£5O
£25 Corn-Husking Contests £25
Wood-Chopping Contest £5O
Entries close WEDNESDAY, 14th MARCH.
Prize Schedules and particulars from uirDCTCD
F. WEBoTtK, secretary,
TATTERSALL’S chambers.
Minerva
Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
Minerva Tonic
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
Minerva Tonic
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
Minerva Tonic
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
M i nerva ‘F© Ro ©
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
new patriotic brooch.
&oiid Gold
Kangaroo Pendant,
12s 6d.
5 Lovely Diamonds,
from
£lO to £4O each.
Smaller Stones,
from
£3, £4, £5, £7 10s.
18c., 14 Lovely
Diamonds and 3
Rubies or Sapphires
£7 10s.
Smaller Stones, 84s.
Solid Gold,
set with 5 Lovely
Opals,
Special Value, 15s.
1 Diamond,
1 Sapphire crR iby,
18c. Gold, £llss.
Any Name or Motto.
9c., 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
15c., 20s, 22s 6d, 27s
Gd.
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
a, O (0 h iLOCiuui
RES
Solid Gold
Sword, Chain, and
Heart or Bell,
14s 6d.
7ith Absent-Minded
Beggar Charm,
15s.
NEW CENTURY
CHARM,
Finest English
Enamel,
Silver Gilt, 4s 6d.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d.
15c. Gold, 18s 6d.
dfg
The
Absent-Minded
Beggar.
Solid Gold
PATRIOTIC
BROOCH, with
Infantry or Gordon
Highlander Charm
17s 6d each.
Solid Gold
Lucky Bell,
Gem set,
with any
Name, ss.
Send for our Illustrated
Slips of Latest Novelties.
Solid Gold
Emu Pendant,
12s 6d.
Solid Gold and Real
Opal, 17s 6d.
With Ruby of
Sapphire, 20s.
50 other Patterns.
¥S€TOaiA
Solid Gold BROOCH, Plain, ss.
With any Name or Motto, 5s 6d.
was
. J
Solid Gold
Extra
Heavy, 255.
Solid Silver,
| Extra
Heavy, 7/6.
AUSTRALIAN BOOMERANG BROOCH.
Finest Enamel on
Silver Gilt.
Souvenir of Sydney.
STAMP CHARM, 3/6
Solid Gold Faith,
Hope, and Charity
PENDAN r, 5s each.
With Pin & Chain, 8/6
Registered.
BROOCHES,
Sterling Silver, 3s 6d,
Solid Gold, 13s 6d.
CHARMS,
Sterling- Silver, 2s 6d.
Solid Gold, 12s 6d.
LUCKY SHAM-
ROCK CHARM,
Set with 1 Pearl,
2 Amethysts,
or 1 Topaz or
Obsidion, 4s.
9c., 12s 6d and 13s 6d ;
15c., 255.
Silver, 2s 6d pair.
I
.Solid Gold, 14s pair, with
any Monogram.
RICHLY CHASF.D,
9c., 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ; 15c., 355,
40s, 455. Silver, 4s, 5s pair.
fc., 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ; 15e., 355,
40s, 4,is. Silver, ss.
With Monogram, 2s (id extra
NOT IS.—Our ONLY Australian A ildress- -90
KING STREET, SYDNEY.


Grand Motor - Paced
Tournament.
£65 £65
EIGHT SELECTED EIDERS.
W. C. JACKSON FIRST
w. McDonald ... ... second
. . BOTH ON . .
£5 Massey - Harris ” Bicycles.
“ They run Easy ; Keep running Easy.”
“ Ride a ‘ Massey ’ and Keep in Front.”
MASSEY - HARRIS CO. Ltd., (Estab. 1847.)
385 George-street (op. Strand Arcade), Sydney.
Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
Ifyfkieoza CoCigf).
The cure of piles by the new “ Oannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 247 Ceorge-street, Sydney.*
“ A. 5.8.” writes :
Re ship Kate (B. 10/3/’00). J. J.D. is informed that ship
Kate with Govt, immigrants left Southampton, August,
1854, arrived at Sydney about December, same year.
Writer’s father was medical superintendent in charge.
Think could lay hands on list of passengers. Of course
ship may have made previous trip.
William Robert Jones, it has been decreed,
is to swing for the Broadford child-murder. The
Melb. police affect to know something sinister in
his history, but on the evidence it is clear to most
people that he should not be hanged. One woman
positively identifies him as a man she saw 120yds.
off—-the average man, if he takes the trouble to
experiment in the street, would not undertake to
swear to a person whom he particularly noticed
60yds. away—and another woman passed within
3yds. of (supposedly) the same man peering
through a window, and swears positively that he
was dark and younger than Jones, who is fair.
But the Crown had cumulative evidence, and all
Broadford came down to swear that they didn’t
see any one else murder the child; Jones must,
therefore, be the man. Also, when the jury re-
turned to ask Justice Hodges a question Jones
wore his neckerchief loosely tied and “ skewiff,”
and that would prejudice even the case of an Arch-
angel.
Mr. A. E. Goldstein (c/o S. Hoffnung and
Co., Ltd., Sydney) has originated a new order of
things m the Australian opal, pearl, diamond and
sapphire trade. On invitation, he will visit any
gemfield. His long experience makes him a very
satisfactory man for gem-seekers to deal with;
and his connection with Messrs. Hoffnung and
Co., Ltd., is every guarantee of good faith.*
On the night of the Patriotic Sports at
South Melbourne, Messrs. Brandt Bros., lamp
manufacturers, 422 Elizabeth St. Melbourne
exhibited one of their kerosene lamps of 2500 c.p.
which lit up the surroundings better than any l
doz. electric lamps. Their Sydney house at 236
Pitt St, have improved their Acetylene gas
generators for house-lighting so that no more gas
is made than is actually required.*
Messrs. Eaton Grant & Co.’s famous Buk-
kulla Wines have obtained the highest award in
Paris, Philadelphia, London, Bordeaux, Mel-
bourne, and Sydney ; and their quality is unsur-
passed by any in the Australian market. Their
absolute purity, with their delicious bouquet and
flavour, should be sufficient to recommend them to
a place on every table, and in the sick-room their
presence is invaluable. In 1897, 1898, 1899 Eaton
Grant & Co., Ltd., gained the Champion Prize
given by the Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.
Wales —namely, for the best four varieties of
sweet wine, red and white, with gold medal* for
1899. The famous Bukkulla vineyards are near
Inverell, N.S.W., and were planted in 1849, the
vines being conveyed to Bukkulla on pack-horses.*
Trooper Tuff, of the Australian Horse,
about the destruction of Lieut. Dowling’s patrol:
We have been looking for this ever since we came.
Lieut. Dowling, for want of experience, used to lead us
into some very warm corners. I reckon we are lucky we
have not been either captured or shot long ago consider-
ing the places we have been led into. . . . Lieut. Dowling
was one of the bravest men in S. Africa. I would stake
my life that he did not know such a feeling as fear.
Just so; but he had other lives than his own to
think of. In nine cases out of ten discretion, even
for a. soldier, is the better part of valor, and it is
criminal to place men under the command of
officers who, like Lieut. Dowling, are unable from
want of experience, or the knowledge that may
take its place, to distinguish between the occasions
for daring and those for prudence. Wellington
said, when asked what his own strong point was,
“ I know when to retreat—and I’m not afraid to do
it.” It is sad to read that the fearless Lieut.
Dowling, who was made a prisoner, has lost an
eye beside sustaining two other severe wounds.
One N.S.W. Lancer private (Pettigrew)
writing from South Africa :
They will lead, and we will follow, and we may yet be
proud of our boy officers, as they were first called. Speak-
ing for myself, I will follow them in the face of grim
death.
Another N.S.W. Lancer private :
You saw where our patrol was captured under one of
the Australian Horse officers. We were expecting a
smash, and got it. We will all be “ copped” like that
some day if we are always to be under our own officers.
It is really a disgrace to N.S.W. to send officers like some
of those who came to lead men into battle. Some of
them are only boys, who came out for a holiday, and we
have to chance our lives with them.
Apparently the Eastern Extension Cable
monopoly has got Australia by the wool once
more. The Postmasters of Yic. and N.S. Wales
are reported as agreeing to the co.’s conditions
for a Cape cable —which conditions, according
to the anti-monopolists, will knock the
Pacific Cable out. The Cable Convention,
now sitting in London, strongly opposes further
concessions to the monopoly; yet the Cabinets of
N.S.W. and Victoria are apparently determined
to give Parliament no chance of discussing the
matter before binding their respective provinces.
What enormous underground influence the Eastern
Extension Co. must have !
The war correspondent grows more hope-
lessly befogged every day. London Times man,
writing from S. Africa 22/l/’OO, says :
The colonial Dutch have realised the risks of rebellion.
As a commentary on this comes a cable dated
7/3/’OO stating
A body of 3000 rebels threaten the important town of
Carnarvon, 100 miles S.E. of De Aar, and 60 miles from
the railway line.
If that is true, and the alleged rebels are not
soon shifted, Roberts is in a bad way, since his
bread-basket is in danger. At any rate, the
Times’ special reckoned without the colonial
Dutch. The special goes on :
Our failures have been due to the inahility of elderly
generals to adapt themselves readily to new conditions.
The proof of the pudding is that Roberts, much
the elderliest of the lot, is the only man who has
been able to do anything, and he is winning every
time by the use of old world methods. Then the
special maunders about the Boers :
Above all the Boers have been quick to grasp the
changes in tactics which the introduction of rifles and
guns of the newest patterns have made desirable and,
indeed, imperative in modern war.
And this is the sort of slush with which the public
is being crammed., The Boers are to-day prac-
tising just the same tactics as Pretorius used at
Bloemfontein in ’4B against old Harry Smith,
and Joubert in ’Bl at Laing’s Nek and Majuba
against Colley. The Boers have stuck to their old
system which suits them and they understand,
while their opponents have changed theirs so often
that at last, until Roberts came, they had no
system at all.
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGE^
...0n...
Mr. Fraok Senior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
d
Found Only in
1900 Model
Red Birds.
M feature cf Merit.
Another new feature, which is most important on account of its
simplicity and general excellence, is the Ked Bird seat post fastener—
composed of three pieces only.
A twist of the wrist turns the small nut and the seat post
adjusts. No big wrench required as with other internal adjustments,
. no °f the frame-tube ate with bolt and nut fastenings.
This is only one of the many little features which makes the Bed Bird just right and
superior to other cycles.
Manufactured, Sold
and Guaranteed by
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Hgents—everywhere.
Che 6oold Bicycle Co*, Ctd*
Telephone 3160.
Australasian Branches
64 King-st.,
261 Collins-
Edward-st.,
VICTORIA-ST.
Sydney, Head Office in Australia,
■st., Melbourne, Vic.
Brisbane, Q.
, Wellington, N.Z.
Send for Catalogue of our 1900 Models.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
W. R. Wilson is in luck with Australian Cups.
jVlelb. Cup has not come his way yet. La Carabine’s win
last week was the third Australian Oup gathered in by
the St. Alban’s stable, Which got home with Havoc, in
95, and Bobadil last year. Many were surprised at the
Garbine-Oratava mare s triumph, but those behind her
fully expected it, and acted accordingly. A Sydney tote
man who almost invariably gets the strength of W. R’s
probabilities, swelled his already big bank balance by four
figures over the result. La Carabine has always been
considered a stayer. In last Caulfield Cup she was going
as well as anything else at the finish. She only won
twice previously, though placed often. Bar LoChiel’s 4.9 J
in ’B9, and Havoc’s 4.11 J in ’95, La Carabine’s is the
slowest on record. Malua (in ’B6) put up the fastest time
(4.0 R and then carried 9.9.
* * * *
La Carabine has improved on appearance
since last spring (when The Bulletin tipped her as
a likely winner of Caulfield Cup), but she is still a
weedy-looking mare. Carbine’s stock has a tendency
to acquire stamina With age ; the autumn is a good
time for mares ; also this particular daughter of “ Old
Jack” had finished vigorously in two or three of
her previous races. However, W. R. Wilson wasn’t in
love with La Carabine’s chance, and as the St. Albans
Stable had been quite out of form lately the victory of
W.R.’s'sometimes popular Colors Was rather coldly re-
ceived except by Ikey Mo. And the jewelled Hebrew was
careful to seem only moderately happy.
* * * *
War God showed himself to be a consistent
failure by running fourth in the 2J miles handicap) t’other
Tuesday. Mr. Bill Forrester’s unsatisfactory plodder
must have almost exhausted the faith of his admirers, for
he has been placed third in one Sydney Oup, fourth in
two Melb. Cups, and fourth again in an Australian Cup.
Judging from the money piled upon him last week, he
didn’t run up to his track gallops. For which matter
even the public “form” of War God, who had beaten
Wait-a-bit at level weights in the Essendon Stakes, was a
caution to punters. In the Australian Cup, the Ballarat
horse gave the God eleven pounds and a beating, whilst
Merriwee, donkey-licked by Parthian for the St. Leger,
made a much better show than the Grand Flaneur colt in
the longer race. “Form” —as Tennyson’s Northern
Farmer said of love—is merely “ a flower that blows.”
* * » *
Seahorse, brought by Major George all the way
from Maoriland to sweep the board at Flemington Autumn
meeting, was certainly the prettiest animal on the ground.
Moreover, he looked fit enough, although the “books”
offered “30 to 1 Sea’orse” for the Australian Oup, as
though they knew something more about the new-chum’s
condition than appeared on the surface.
» * * «
After what occurred at V.R.C. Autumn meeting
last week there cannot be two opinions as to which holds
pride of place among the two-year-olds. Bill of Portland-
Barley colt Malster is voted by some to be one of the best
youngsters ever seen. Hautboy and Finland must there-
fore take a back seat. Mention of Malster calls to mind
the fact that “ Maltster ” was the name intended but
through being written Malster on the nomination paper it
will have to remain so until owner planks down a sov. to
have it rectified.
* • * *
Malster had run only once (nowhere) in public
previous to his coming out as the boss two-year-old of the
season. Strange to say, Malster, after having beaten the
speedy Haulette for the Hopeful Stakes at Flemington,
was allowed to start at 8 to 1 in a field of five for the
Ascot Vale Stakes.
* » * »
Though Parthian’s time (smin. 26secs.) over the
Champion Stakes course (3 miles) at Flemington last
Thursday was 19sec. inside limit, the record remained
intact. Six years ago Portsea put up 2Jsec. faster pace,
and in ’96 Quiver and Wallace dead-heated a quarter-
second quicker. Parthian travelled at a sound gait over
the whole journey. His first mile and a-half was done in
2min. 48sec., and the second lOsec. faster. First and
second half-miles of the second round were galloped in
52sec. each, and that at the finish 2sec. slower.
* * * *
Finland, Kenley and Hautboy, boss two-year-
performers of the Flemington Spring Meeting, cut up
pretty badly last week. Debenture, Finland, and Kenley
were the only youngsters started for the All Aged Stakes
on Saturday, and they finished in the last three places.
Considering that the weight for age scale is all in favor of
the two-year-olds in the Autumn, it would look as though
this season’s lot are much below the average.
* * * *
Backers at the V.R.C. Autumn meeting got
several sharp lessons in the folly of attempting to “ lick
honey off thorns.” Finland certainly landed the odds of
11 to 8 on for the Sires Produces Stakes, but against this
one success there were five instances of the favorite get-
ting beaten.
6to 4 on Merriwee .. St. Leger.
6to 4 ~ Seahorse .. Essendon Stakes.
6to 4 ~ Finland .. Ascot Vale Stakes.
Evens ~ Stand Off .. All Aged Stakes.
6to 4 ~ Parthian .. Loch Plate.
* * * •
Merriwee and Parthian have met five times at
Flemington, with results as follows :
Spring Meeting, ’99—
The Derby—Merriwee beat Parthian easily.
Spring Stakes—Parthian beat Merriwee by a head.
Autumn Meeting—
St. Leger—Parthian beat Merriwee by 6 lengths.
Australian Cup—Merriwee beat Parthian, who made
no show.
Champion Stakes—Parthian beat Merriwee all the
way.
The running of poor little Merriwee at the V.R.O. Autumn
came rough on the considerable minority of punters who
take it for granted that the owner of a representative
good horse is unlikely oo race his valuable “ crack ” when
it is not in condition to do itself credit. Merriwee looked
anything but blooming on Leger day, but the public
didn’t know that the Derby and Cup winner had been
going feebly in his gallops. They laid odds on “form”
and lost their money. Again the public saw Merriwee
run far more prominently than Parthian from end to end
of the Australian Oup, but they probably didn’t notice
how “ baked” the little fellow was after the race. Then
they risked another little bit on the tarnished idol for the
Champion Stakes, and dropped the little bit, not because
of the alleged improvement in Parthian, but because the
Merriwee of March was not the fit and proper colt they
had respected in December.
* * » *
Despite Havelock’s poor showing at Randwick
the previous week he was made favorite for the Hurdle
Race at Warwick Farm, Sydney, last Saturday. He duly
won but his form was no better than at Randwick when
he finished behind Statesman and Commissioner. With
the latter pair out of the way at the Farm, the opposition
was not of the best, and Havelock finished ahead of Blue
Wings as at Randwick. The time was 3Jsec. slower, and
as Havelock was very tired at the finish there is small
doubt that if the Randwick race were run over again the
result would be the same no matter how Havelock was
ridden. Under these circumstances the decision of the
A.J.C. exonerating Havelock may be endorsed and the
horse discharged without a stain upon his character.
* * * *
Callinan rode two fine races at Warwick Farm
on Saturday, when he piloted the faint-hearted Sapir and
the game Merralie to Victory. In the Stewards’ Mile he
rode a patient race on Sapir, and just when Valor looked
like a winner, Callinan took hold of Sapir and downed all
opposition. On Merralie in the Pace Welter he raced for
some 50 yards locked with Fireman, and by sheer horse-
manship landed his mount home first by a head.
* * * •
Backers of the first-favorite “system” must
have had their faith badly shaken last Saturday at Flem-
ington. Following- the lines laid down for winning a
“tenner’’the disciple of the system would lose about
£192 on the day.
* * * *
“X.”: Have you noticed that the last three
Newmarkets have been appropriated by nags that didn’t
strike the trainer’s eye (which isn’t the best in the world, it
might be remarked) much as yearlings ? Amiable (winner
in ’9B) fetched 70gs. at the age named. Forest (successful
last year) brought only ,32igs-, while “ Bill ” Forrester
couldn’t get 50gs. for The Watchdog.
* * • *
Re Bulletin par. (3/3/’00) anent N.S.W. owner
“A. Stanley’s ” luck at punting. It has come to him with
a rush since, interested in Stand Off, Oornquist, Welfare
and Haulette, and being a backer who invariably bets to
win a big stake, he must have raked in a goodly”pile from
Mo, who, however, consoles himself with the knowledge
that there’s little fear of him “ buttoning up.” So it will
all find its way back sooner or later.
♦ * * £
Arquebus’ bad luck followed him to Maitland
(N.S.W.) where he started a 6 to 4 favorite fob Maitland
Cup and was downed by the 20 to 1 chance America, a
horse by the Australian Peer from Miss Thirza.
* * * *
Cabled that the late Duke of Westminster’s
famous four-year-old Flying Fox, by Orme from Vampire,
has been sold to the French sport Blanc for 37,500g5.
This tops all records. Ormonde brought 30,000 and
Galtee More (last year) 20,000. Other Eng. high-pricers
Were, St. Blaize 20,000g5,, Matchbox 18,000, Bona Vista
and Common 15,000, and St. Gatien and Doncaster 14,000
each, Blair Athol 12,500, and Kangaroo 12,000 and con-
tingencies j King Thomas (yearling) was sold in U.S. for
6700g5., and Child Wick (ditto) 6000 gs. Flying Fox has
been a great performer. At 2 years he won' £2600 worth
of stakes, and at 3 years he was never beaten. The Two
Thousand Guineas, the Derby (£5450), the Princess of
Wales’ Stakes (£7190), Eclipse Stakes (£9285), St. Leger
(£4050), and Jockey Club Stakes (£7190) fell to him during
that period.!
* * * *
The fame of Flying Fox will seemingly add to
the value of Carbine as a sire. Learned students of the
Stud-Book make out that the fittest mates for Flying Fox
will be mares begotten by Musket sires, on which showing
the demand for daughters of our old friend Carbine should
increase.
* * • *
An Adelaide man was recently deputed by a
friend to put ss. on the sensational dividend horse, Ant-
arctic. He didn’t, and as totalisator dividends can be
recovered in a court of law, the sufferer took proceedings
and got a verdict for £3l odd and costs, the amount the
investor would have received had his crown been “on.”
It is thus established that an investor can sue in the
courts for recovery of an investment, even if entrusted to
a third party without commission !
* • * *
“Old Timer”: Saw coal-hued Ike Stewart and
Riverstone (N.S.W.) Meat Works man Jack Tuckwell
shape at Golden Gate A.O. (Sydney) on Saturday night,
and am satisfied that, given anything like good condition
the nigger would be cold-pie for the white. Latter has a
stomach like a turkey-fed bookmaker, and went all to
pieces inside three rounds ; still, he weathered the squall,
but every punch meant a clinch. The black was master
of the situation, and ought to have won dozens of times,
but he owns a weak spot; and the glowering expression
on the meat-works’ champion’s face, and the menacin°--
looking parabolic rights and lefts he kept swinging quite
scared the son of Ham, who only got close when he
couldn’t help it, and then seemed paralysed. Tuckwell
rocked about the ring on the verge of collapsing round
after round, with his adversary—clever enough to eat
him—standing off. Referee M‘ Donald had a lively half-
hour breaking the two asunder from clinches. Finally
Jack dropped into his chair limp as a dead snake—barely
able to move. Bad condition would stand the racket no
longer, and his seconds gave in. Writer never saw such
a chance of winning a fight thrown away through neglect
to train. Tuckwell, for his inches (about sft.), has mag-
nificent chest and shoulder development—his torso would
make many a 6ft. weight-lifter or wrestler turn green
with envy.
* * » *
Three brothers (Turner), bom pugs, fought right
through to the final stages of Metropolitan A.O. (Sydney)
recent novice tourney. Ultimate winner Power ac-
counted for one in semi-final and another in the final but
only after bitter struggles, as both took a lot of licking
and were not behind-hand in ladling out gruel themselves
The cognoscenti were hoping that two of the brothers
might have the final to themselves in which case chunks
of man and buckets of gore would have been flying about
Writer remembers the days of Foley’s “White Horse”
gymnasium. Then, whenever the M.C. (generally
Laurence himself) announced “two brothers, gentle-
men!” everybody knew what was coming and braced
themselves for “ stoush.”
* * * *
Cocker Tweedie’s defeat by Ned Cullen was
fully expected by the Melb. sports, who judged the Syd-
neyite’s form by his fight with M‘lvor, yet after four
rounds had been fought it looked any price on Tweedie
Cullen, who had scored at the opening of the mill, grew
weak ; in fact, was at times unable to raise his hands to
stop slow hits. Then, as the rounds progressed, he pulled
himself together, and, being a heavy hitter, steadied his
visitor with several body blows. The sixth, seventh, and
final rounds were such as are seldom seen. The crowded
audience bit its lips, stamped on its hat, and howled : the
referee poured forth perspiration while tearing the two
pugs, asunder, for they worried one another like bull-
pups. At the seventh round, the men fought on till their
seconds hauled them apart, as the gong was inaudible for
uproar. Only a few seconds of the eighth round sufficed
Cullen uppercut Tweedie’s jaw, and the Sydney man
who fell through the ropes, was carried off. Another go
between these men would fetch a huge house ; who would
win is a mere toss-up. There were many fouls during
the contest.
* * * *
Obit, at Bathurst (N.S.Wi) recently-Lieut.
M. J. Keating. Twenty years ago he was a front-rank
performer at the butts, and a little later was one of the
Australian team for England. He competed in inter-
provincial matches year after year till ’96. Deceased was
a remarkably quick shot and could use the revolver just
as well as the rifle. He secured the Champion Gold
Medal of Sydney, N.A.V., six times out of twelve, and on
48 successive occasions, under variable weather-condi-
tions, averaged 59J out of a possible 70. Keating got
away with the grand champion aggregate at each of four
annual meetings of the National Rifle Association. He
was one of the Soudan Contingent.
* ♦ • •
Sprint (100yds.) swimming supremacy of the
Cornstalk province at Balmain (Sydney), Saturday, was a
red-hotstruggle. Three (R. Craig, “Mud’’Bishop and
K. Cavill) of the four starters were almost locked together
from end to end of the journey and going at high pressure
the whole time. In the last 20yds.. Craig forged ahead
by inches and won by 2ft. amidst great excitement.
Bishop was second and Cavill third (2ft. further away) a
little more than the length of his body in front of Grant.
The time (lmin. 3sec.) tops everything previously done in
this section over a lap course. Bishop put up 1 0 3-5
(straightway) at Fitzroy Dock (Cockatoo Island) April 1
last year. Previous best (with turns) 1.3 2-5 was in F
Lane’s name, accomplished within a day of 12 months
lapse. World s amateur fastest under like conditions is
( J * H. Darbyshire’s) and professional I.U (J.
Nuttall s) created 6 years since. Worth mentioning that
first, second and fourth men are residents of Balmain.
All qualified for “ honor ” certificates, having finished
inside standard time (1.7).
* * * •
Pigeon-shooters were busy at Botany (Sydney)
on Friday, when the second competition for the Kurnal
Cup was shot off. The winner was “ Herbert,” with 13
birds, the runner-up being L. N. Walford, who was un-
lucky to miss his 13th pigeon, as it was the only one not
accounted for out of 31 he shot at during the afternoon.
“W.”: Was one among hundreds who looked
on at the semi-final of N.S.W. water-polo competition
between Balmain S.O. (No. 3) and E. Sydney teams on
Saturday, and came away “full up.” The contending
sides were very Unevenly matched. Balmain literally lay
over the Metropolitan reps, and won easily by 7 goals to
1. Winners knew something about the game, though not
too much, while losers were the veriest tyros. Water-
polo was played fairly well in Sydney years ago, but now
only one club (Balmain) has any idea of it, and wins first
and second medals in the championship tourney year
after year with the greatest of ease. Played properly,
water-polo is as fetching as football, but, as writer has
seen it during the past three or four seasons, one marvels
how it catches on anywhere.
* * * •
Last Saturday’s play put Central Cumberland
to the front for Sydney Premiership cricket competitions.
Prior to Saturday, Central Cumberland, Paddington and
Waverley were running level, with six points each. 0.
Cumberland’s defeat of Redfern put them on two points,
whilst Paddington and Waverley played a draw, and
remain as they were. 0.0. has yet E. Sydney and Glebe
to meet, but as, with ordinary luck, they should beat
both, the Championship looks a foregone conclusion for
them.
* * * *
Auckland made a hideous show against Melb.,
the Club cricket-team now holidaying in M.L. Visitors
made the play stretch over three days, scoring 544 in their
first and only innings. Then they shrapnelled the locals
—B5 in first, and 84 in -second effort; won by an innings
and 385 runs. Trumble notched 135, Mailer 105, Jennings
68, Graham 67, Jacobs 54, Aitken 46, Ross 42. Trumble’s
crowd gasped for breath at Wanganui, which claims a
better acquaintance with racehorse and stale football
than Cricket. A tenuis-loving parson and a slogging
college lad were of the team, and made things lively for
the visitors, who only won by three wickets—and two
nice catches were missed near the finish.
* * * *
N.S.W. League’s night cycle meeting last
Thursday drew another big crowd. The paced race was
a great go. M‘Donald accounted for Bathurst (N.S.W.)
Mutton ; and the little Victorian, G. Morgan, squelched a
hot pot in Darkie Gordon. Morgan’s ride worked excite-
ment to a high pitch and severely cut previous times.
Final of Interprovincial scr. race produced a tortoise-like
pace for the first half. Entering the last quarter, Lewis,
Walne, and Carpenter were together in front. Jackson
(Vic.) shot out like a flash 200yds. from finish, and looked
a moral, when Gordon (Vic.) came brilliantly, and sustain-
ing the spurt to the end, was within a few inches of Jack-
son as the pair flew pass the post. Walne (Q.) just beat
Lewis (Vic.) for third place. Time, 2.27 1-5.
* * * *
Saturday afternoon on Sydney Cricket Ground
the Australian Cycling Club had a cut for the £5O trophy
and 10 five-guinea gold medals offered by Dunlop Tyre Co.
to the ten bona-fide members of any one club who, in a
a 100-miles relay journey, should put up the fastest time,
which must be less than 4h. 15min. The Australian 10
negotiated the task in 4h. lmiu 50 1-5 sec.—a good per-
formance, all things considered. Interprovincial riders
now in Sydney after promising assistance as pacers failed
to materialise. Three of .the team first chosen were not
in evidence and emergencies had to be fallen back upon.
Speed was materially hampered by a fresh breeze.
Megson’s contribution was easily the fastest; his 10 miles
were got over in 22min. lOsec. Bathurst Mutton came
next with 22min. 52sec. The club is dissatisfied with the
effort and will have another try shortly. Competition
closes March 31.
* * * *
League cycling events, at Sydney Cricket-
Ground, on Monday night, drew another big crowd.
Racing was exciting and riding excellent all through,
particularly in the motor-paced tournament. Two Vic-
torians (Morgan and “ Newhaven ” Jackson) met in the
first semi-final and had a great struggle which Jackson
won by two lengths only. In the second semifinal Walne
(Q.) fell in the sixth lap, and M'Donald (Vic.) had it all to
himself afterwards. For two miles the final produced an
exciting battle between Jackson and M‘Donald, but Jack-
son ran away over the other mile and finished in smin.
12 4-ssec.—an Australian record. M‘D. couldn’t hold his
pace. Spencer cigar prize (10 miles) fell to Gordon, Row-
lands and Lewis (all victors) as named. Opening the last
quarter Mutton was 20yds. in. front, but the finishingdash
settled him, and Gordon passed the post two lengths in
front of second man. Time, 24min. 31 4-ssec.
* * * *
Melb. copperdom made a poor show against the
gaol warders in the tug-of-war contest at the Police Oar-
nival. Almost to a man, the cops had no idea of pulling
a rope. They bent forward with their backs rounded,
and their hands and toes touching, and even what weight
they got on was rendered ineffective by the white-
headed giants at the end of the rope, who swung them
from side to side out of the holes they had dug in the
turf. Policemen, big as they are, are not ideal athletes.
Much cold pie, much beer, and a little gentle walking-
exercise isn’t a perfect training regimen.
* * * *
Maoriland A. A. championships, decided at
Wellington, were tame and sparsely attended. G. Smith,
the locomotive Aucklander, was the star, winning the
100yds., 250yds., 120yds.. and 440yds. hurdles. Six appear-
ances (with heats) during an afternoon, with a tape-
breasting first each time, is about a record. Smith, who
has pistol-beating proclivities, had nothing to down in
the sprints. The 100yds. was cut out in standard time
(10 l-ssec.), but other events were slower than ordinarily.
Althoug'h Auckland had but three reps., it won the
coveted banner with 57 points ; Canterbury came next
with 35, Wellington 28. W. H. Madill broke his former
hammer-throwing record of 121 ft. 3in. by 15ft. ljin.—a
rare performance. As he threw 136 ft. 4Jin., it seems
ridiculous for the Association to keep the standard at
100 ft.


“We Have Made a Hit”
WITH ~
DERBY
TOBACCO
It is considered
the finest and
best smoking
Tobacco ever
imported.
There is nothing like DEKBT
[i
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY COMPANY,
0L
rc
Q
3)
REG
PlT r
SYDNEY.
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Directly opposite Civil Service Stores. Mr. Monte Goldstein, Manager.
These premises have been opened with an
Extensive and Splendidly Assorted Stock
—OF —
WATCHES, JEWELLERY, BIJOUTERIRE, SILVER
AND PLATED WARE
OF THE HIGHEST CLASS OF
MANUFACTURE.
NOVELTIES OF THE MOST ELEGANT AND UP-TO-DATE DESIGNS AND
HIGHLY FINISHED WORKMANSHIP.
The Best of Style combined with the Best of Value.
f°£/?FECS
TECEI
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK CRIMLEY
Sole DistribOtios Ageot
for ACiStralaSia . . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-265 Clarence Street, Sydney .
All is peace again in Adelaide Hospital,
after years of medical squabbling', and the honor-
ary staff (the original strikers) have returned to
the institution. The compromise arrived at is, to
a great extent, due to the good offices of Attorney-
General Gordon. The original strike occurred
through the appointment of his sister to a high
position over the heads of her seniors. Neither
Doctors Smith nor Napier, who were imported
owing to the strike, are now in the hospital; the
former is City Coroner, and the latter a hopeless
invalid on indefinite leave.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skm.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The Sydney journalist whom the Supreme
Court declined to release from jury service the
other day went the wrong way about getting on.
When the sergeant of police or other officer tapped
him for particulars before entering his name on
the roll had he simply said he was a journalist he
would have heard no more about the matter.
Whatever N. S.W. Judges may hold as a matter ot
law, Sydney roll-collectors drop journalists from
their list when requested to do so ; but because ot
this ruling it may in future be different.
WANTED IMMEDIATELY.
A GENTLEMAN LECTURER,
of good address and sober habits ; also a LAD F
to give a refined humorous entertainment. (No
songs or dancing required.) Likewise a gentle-
man of good address and steady habits who can
provide an attractive comic entertainment.
The above help is required for a coming Patent-
Medicine business touring through Australia and
New Zealand. State age, experience, and first
month’s salary expected for time on trial.
Address in first instance —
_A_. ROSE, MANAGER,
General Post Office, Townsville, Queensland.
YOU CAN ’ T PUT THE OCEAN ,NTO A TEA -° UIP
neither can we record all the novel points of the
“IMPERIAL BICYCLE”
in this advt. Full hues for 1900 now open.
Agents wanted where not represented already in Aus-
tralasia and New Zealand. Before buying a new wheel,
drop us a post-card for catalogue and factory prices.
Machines soiled, all of well-known makes, fitted new
Dunlop tyres, selling for a song ; have a list of them, too.
Repairs, Sundries, Dunlop Tyres.
THE “DUCK” BRAKE FITS ANY BICYCLE.
j. F. McDermott and Company,
37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole General Agents in Australasia for “IMPERIAL”
Bicycles.
holier
i
k
v: s;
REGISTERED )
freshTv prepared frorr) rt]e Famous AFnrar] KOLA NUTS
CJ I r C.CDI.A ACUMINATA )
A SUSTAINING &
STIMULATING TONIC
WITHOUT INTOXICATION
The Greatest Tak-me-up & Appetiser knovyn.
It makes you, ecct and mali&syou
+-t~* ft cures fncLgeStuari.
WHErt OllT OF SOItfST* a drniM'AlglC'
IT SAVES DOCTORS BILLS
All Hotels & refreshment rooms «.™Soda Water6°p«j>«»
* ALL CHEMISTS 2,4 *nct */& Per Bottle
T’/?cirn l <xcy 337 George <S£ Ves 1-fy opp G Post Of Sep
Ajii LMVssKf giTO^s«~e\BflTsg,
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manaarer, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutne.
Every Evening, at 7.45. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
LAST TWO
NIGHTS !
HENRY V.
LAST TWO
NIGHTS !
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD a 8 HENRY Y.
OS’ SATURDAY, March 17th—YOUTH.
Plan, Nicholson’s. |S i ~’ PRICES —55., 35., 25., and Is.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., R. Stewart, Senior.
Magda last TWO nights ! Magda
Miss O’NEIL as MAGDA.
Mr. Kee Rankin as Lieut.-Col. Schwartze.
SATURDAY, March 17—THE JEWESS.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Every Evening ! Every Evening !
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
in an Entirely New, Original, Sensational, Patriotic,
Romantic Drama, entitled
DEFENDER OF THE FAITH.
In 4 Acts and 9 Tableaux, by Charles Darrell.
Prices as Usual. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.45.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
THE GREATEST COMPANY EVER SEEN 1
Re-appearance of SPRY and AUSTIN.
LUDWIG AMANN & THE MACARTE SISTERS.
Francie Adler, Chas. W. Cogill, Tod Calloway, Fanny
Powers, Phil Goer, and all our Great Tivoli Attractions.
SAME TIVOLI PRICES, Plan at Paling’s.
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance in Melbourne of
CHAS. SEEL, Leading English Comedian,
Also Miss MAUD NEEDHAM, Descriptive Vocalist.
8 NEWSKY FAMILY 8
PROF. DAVY’S MARIONETTES. TOM BROWNIE.
LITTLE ALMA GRAY, POPE and SAYLES, Wallace
King, Elsie Golding, Will Whitburn,
and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
Melbourne Again Enraptured at the Old Favorite,
Widow O’Brko.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as WIDDY O’BRIEN.
GRACIE WHITEFORD as DORA M'ALLISTER.
Full Opera Band—The Excelsior. Troop of Dancers.
p r } ceB — 3s. t -25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Direction of
Miss KATHERINE RUSSELL (Mrs. Alfred Damp’.sr).
Business Manager, Mr. George Buller.
ALFRED DAMPIER.
Supported by his famous touring Dramatic Company.
FRIDAY, March 16, Shakespeare Night,
HAMLET.
SATURDAY, March 17— The Three Musketeers.
ADMISSION—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and SIXPENCE.
RINCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Business Manager .. Mr. Geo. Tallis.
Treasurer .. .. • • Mr. R. Stewart.
Curtain Rises 7.1,5 Sharp.
GREAT : ANNUAL : SPECTACULAR : PANTOMIME,
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.
Written by Bernard Espinasse. Music by Leon Caron
and F. W. Wenter.
Realistic Battle Scenes and Tableaux. Grand Ballet, etc.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Menzies.
m
IX
the person who is not a millionaire, there is
’ ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
° ffiCe Proprietor -- , GEO. W. ELLIS.
ISS NATHAN, Clairvoyante Palmist.
Scientific Studio, Otis Chambers, 82 King Street,
SYDNEY Character Revealed from handwriting.
>elineations sent by post to country and other colonies,
i nd letter, with fee, 2s. 6d., to above address.
S'
TEELE RUDD’S
SELECTION.”
” BOOK, “ON OUR
Six Shillings, Post Free,
At Poverty Point.
When Napoleon Boffard was in Wellington (M.L.) with a
company he was just getting on to “ Dere is a flower dat
bloomet ” when a lady near the front, of dubious
demeanor, but with a terrific picture-hat on, stood on
her chair. Nap started again, “ Dere is a flower dat
bloomet.” She kissed her hand to him and then some-
body pulled her down. Nap was getting very serious :
“ Dere is a flo ” when a smothered voice, seeming to
come from under the carpet, was heard : “ That’s me, he’s
singing to me, I’m ’is bloomin’ flower.” Poor Nap had to
go off the stage while his admirer was bumped out.
Writes “ Steff Oassander” : Wellington (M.L.) is full of
theatrical shows just now —Bland Holt at the Opera
House, all the small halls taken with cinematograph and
variety co’s., and a big affair in a tent that has been wait-
ing for the wind to drop—which it never does in Welling-
ton. Bland H. just about takes away all the spending
money available. I saw Bland play about 12 years ago,
and took a great dislike to him because in all his charac-
ters he said “Haho ” through his nose. In consequence,
I avoided him until the other night, when I strolled in
late to see “ Babylon.” No sooner had I got in than I
nearly fainted in the arms of a policeman, because
Bland bounced on to the stage and deliberately said “ Ha
ho ” through his nose.
“ S.S.” : Dampier’s Shylock at Melb. Alexandra for one
night only was decidedly interesting, but hardly as much
so as the small-boy criticisms in the dailies. Alfred
treated his Jew very gently, and was credited with mak-
ing him a rapacious devil by the discerning Age. The
Shylock represented by A.D. was a reputable financier
who had been spat upon and called dog by amiable per-
sons of the Christian religion, had had his only daughter,
likewise his ducats and his diamonds, purloined by high-
minded gentlemen of the same faith, and was
naturally anxious for that revenge which several good
Christians were so eager to visit upon him. Dam-
pier was rather reposeful and slow in those scenes
where the outraged Hebrew exhibits his yellow fangs,
and heaps maledictions on Christendom, but the whole
effect of his work was to create a wholesome sympathy
with the venerable victim, and make the discriminating
observer feel that Shylock was impudently defrauded of
his pound of flesh, and was quite a righteous and admir-
able old capitalist compared with the large round money-
merchant and diamond-dealer of our time, oh, Lord, who
devours men whole by the thousand, and whose daughter
is invariably treated with the respect that is due to his
ducats. Dampier’s Shylock, crushed in court, the victim
of an adverse judgment, was an object of sympathy, and
throughout he was the one bold human old Sheeny in a
regiment of shabby spooks.
Melba on Melba. Writing recently from the Hotel Bris-
tol, Vienna, Melba said : “ The Emperor of Austria is most
anxious to hear me sing, so they are trying to arrange a
performance at the opera. I sing in concert to-night.
My voice is perfectly beautiful. Everyone says it is
fresher than ever.” Two days later she wrote : “ I must
tell you of my wonderful success in Vienna. lam only
now beginning to realise it. What enthusiasm ! After I
finished my last song, I was called out perhaps 40 times.
I sang them several songs, and played my own accompani-
ments. Thev screamed and shouted for more. Then,
when they realised I would not sing any more, hundreds
of people came on to the platform, and shook and kissed
my hands, and nearly tore me to pieces. All the flowers
on my dress were torn off. It was really wonderful. I
wish you had been there. All the members of the Im-
perial family were present, except the Emperor, who only
goes to concerts, so I am to sing at the Opera House on
18th, when I hope he will go. I have never had such
huge successes as lam having this year. lam going to
gee Mr. G. Musgrove on my return to London, to see what
I can arrange about going to Australia. I really must
pluck up my courage next spring, as the season wall be a
sad one in London. All my friends are in mourning, or
dreading to be.”
Nellie Stewart’s voice is suffering from English winter
and fog and it remains to be seen whether a trip to Aus-
tralia will repair the damage. In all other respects
Nellie is reported, by Australians in London, to be as good
as new, or even bettter.
T,alU Miranda has cabled to Melb. Argus the announce-
ment that she will appear in Italian opera at Covent
Garden next May. The London engagement is the result
of trillsome Lalla’s success at Brussels, and she will pre-
sumably figure as the light soprano heroine of the season.
Joseph Gillott—following the example of De Chaneat,
another local musician—burst forth at Melb. Town Hall
last week as the composer of “thirteen patriotic, military,
dramatic and sacred songs,” one of which he was graci-
ously pleased to warble himself. A green-tinted portrait
in oils, which has been gazing at the Melb. public from
Glen’s window for some time past, represents Joe.Gillott
as a transcendental composer of the most intense
character.
“ Melb.” : Sheridan’s Widow O’Brien is genuine comedy.
A more consistent piece of portraiture was never staged.
I have seen two imitators, giving the husk without the
kernel, and driven to the resource of burlesque, from
which Sheridan is entirely free. He is perfectly natural,
of Boucicault’s quiet type, drawing blood at every line
with his histrionic whipcord. Seeing this performance,
though only of low comedy, the other night, I could
honestly give it the Master’s praise involved with “ One
touch of Nature makes the whole world kin.” Sheridan
can warn off every imitator in his own little way, like
Cervantes with Don Quixote.
An Ibsen -minded beggar —the modern British dramatist
Anecdote from the recently-published “ Life Story
Reminiscences, and Letters ”of Arthur Sullivan: Sloman,
stage-machinist (loq.) : “ That iron doesn’t run in the
slot as easily as I should like, Mr. Sullivan. We must
have a little more music to carry her across ; give us
something for the ’cellos if you can.” “Certainly, Mr.
Sloman ; you have opened up a new path of beauty in
orchestration,” I gravely replied, and I at once added 16
bars for the ’cello alone. No sooner was this done than a
variation (solo dance) was required at the last moment for
the second danseuse, who had just arrived. “ What on
earth am I to do ?” I said to the stage-manager ; I
haven’t seen her dance yet—l know nothing of her style.
“ I’ll see,” he replied, and took the young lady aside. In
five minutes he returned. “ I’ve arranged it all,” he said;
“this is exactly what she wants” (giving it to me
rhythmatically), “ Tiddle-iddle-um, tiddle-iddle-um, rum-
tirum-tirum, sixteen bars of that ; then, rum-tum, rum-
tum, heavy, you know, sixteen bars ; and then finish up
with the overture to ‘ William Tell,’ last movement, six-
teen bars, and coda.” In 10 minutes I hail composed it,
and it was at once rehearsed.
What astounding tastes some people have !
The man death-sentenced for the recent North
Melb. stabbing case provided himself with a
murderous new knife, two razors and a revolver ;
and went out in jealous search of a thin, bloodless
little wisp of a woman, hardened and aged by
years of orange-hawking, &c., on the Sydney
streets.
The protest of Quinlan, M.P., and other
R.C. residents of Perth, W.A., against Gov.
Gerard Smith’s use of Govt. House for a Free-
masonic installation tells how badly that peculiar
person is disliked. Other Governors have used
their residences for similar purposes. Governor
Denison did it several times in Sydney, and with-
out exciting anger. On the other hand, if the
question be raised there can only be one answer—
namely, that Govt. House should not m any
Australian province be made the nidus of any
secret society whose character, rightly or wrongly,
is objectionable to a considerable section of the
community.
An American sanitary engineer now in
Sydney told a Bulletin man recently that some
of the standard sanitary attachments in use m
Sydney would not be tolerated in the States.
Much of the sanitary ware which Sydneyites
confidently look to as a competent guard against
sewer-gas in houses, will syphon on the slightest
provocation, allowing unimpeded access to germs.
In the States, the ventilator-shafts are made of
cast-iron, and must be proved air-tight before
erection. In Sydney, faith is chiefly pinned on
pipes of galvanised iron, which are but infre-
quently air-tight when new, but when a year or
two old are almost certain to be perforated with
holes through the action of the sewer-gas. “Yes,
sir,” concluded the American, “ it’s fortunate that
you are in a climate where you can keep your
windows open. If it wasn’t for this, every man
Jack of you would be poisoned to death with
sewer-gas.”
Robson, member for Gerald ton in W.A.
Assembly, lately shook up that placid little town
by publicly stating that he had been offered cash
assistance provided he would be a Government
supporter, that W.A. had a rotten and corrupt
Government, that bribery is rampant m the
Legislature, and that a number of members who
a • f without visible honest means of support are
maintained in a cash sense, either by Govt, or by
people behind it who have large cutlery to sharpen
on the public grindstone. The statements are
possibly true enough, but all the same it is more
than likely that they will bring Robson down
with a crash. By the time Parliament meets and
fixes a shocked eye on Robson, everybody con-
cerned will have established such a beautiful alibi,
and the incriminating documents, if there are
any, will be so carefully stowed away at the
bottom of the Ministerial desk, and the Ministry
will lay its hand so convincingly on its stomach
while it swears there are no such documents, that
Robson will probably be the worst-left man in
Australia. Yet Bigjohn Forrest stated publicly
in ’94 that “the favors the Government has to
bestow will be given to those constituencies which
return Government supporters,” and quite lately,
in Parliament, he taunted Holmes, M.L.A., as a
renegade for voting against the Government im-
mediately after it had made him a J.P.
admitted, almost in so many words, that the
J.P.-ship was meant to buy Holmes’s
was publicly angry because Holmes hadn t de-
livered the goods.


At an Oat-back race-meeting a local Govt,
officer, who lived in the odour of sanctity and
carted the plate round in the weather-board church
when the visiting shepherd happened along, which
he did half-sometimes, had a horse called Perisher
entered for the big handicap. blank had gone to
great trouble over his training, and fancied his
chance. The stand was full of the very best
women folk, and the first time round Perfsher
held a good position and was going strong. Then
they vanished behind a belt of timber that hid
■the back of the course, and when the mokes came
in view again Perisher wasn’t among them. The
owner’s head swelled up visibly and he asked in a
surprised manner, “Where’s Perisher?” Then
his face, naturally red, went purple, and he
grabbed a glass from a squatter’s wife, gave one
look through it, and hurled it into the middle of
TJBEDES MIKTBR’S (3REAT "W^nXTT
NOW SUPPLIED BY THE
“ Koerstz Patent Klondyke Quartz Crushers.
‘Which render the miner independent of Battery-power, and enable
him to realise on his gold from day to day.
This is a very superior machine, cipable of being worked by hand, horse, or other
power. It does its work admirably. Will crush to any size, or reduce to the finest
powder. Two men can put through 10 to 12 cwt. ; and, if using horse-power, one
ton per day can be crushed. The complete machine weighs 7cwt., but can be taken
apart, and is then readily portable. No. lis a smaller machine at £l5. No. 3 with
a capacity of two to three tons per day, price £6O.
The Prospector’s Grusher.
No. 1 at £3 and No. 2 at £5, leave nothing to be desired for
testing small quantities of stone.
FREDK. MASON f SOLE AGENT.
Also for
Kosrstz Pumps for Mining and all other purposes,
Rift
The No. 2 Miner’s “Klcndyke” Crusher, Price £3&
237 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Allenburys Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique in providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “Allenburys ”
The “ Allenburys 99
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of liie.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ Allenburys ” Malted Food no. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use by tbe
addition of COW'S MILK,
according to direction- y'ven.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, t' e Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that—“No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET OK >JiFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBGUIiiw.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
the universe with a shriek of “Where’s PerisherT
Where’s the blanky Perisher ? ” —and then rising
to a cyclone: “Where’s the dash blank three
dashes!—more-blanks Perisher?” Someone led
him from the stand, which was pink with blushes,
and next church meeting it was resolved that the
sinner was not a fit and proper person, &c., and
the parson prayed over him, and wept big tears
down his back, and his hitherto-best girl (who’d
dropped 5s. on the horse) refused to recognise him,
and the cause of the blasphemy, having strained a
sinew, was sold for £1, and Blank became a moral
wreck and started playing billiards and euchre,
and other sinful pastimes, and drank continuously
and has been pointed to as an awful example ever
since.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
uith Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
on , *h e inflamed part it leaves the impres-
-5° n ' If !?’ un(ier the skin you have poison that defies all
tne remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till deatli releases
>ou. lerhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
nr7i S 5 < l/ t^T S T Ub^ 1 , t t 0 am Putation ; but do not, lor I CAN
I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have faded is no reason for not now being cured,
fcendatonce for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
?T uSSS? I Bri(ain > 1/Hd. per b ,x. Prepared by
ALBLIiI, /3, Farrmgdon-street, London, England.
Agents *, ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
D. S. MAIR,
Watch Repairing Specialist,
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned and Guaranteed One Year
2s 6d. Best New Mainspring, 2s (id.—6B4 George-street!
BBT D. S. MAIR for Ladies’ Silver Hunting Watches
guaranteed 3 years, 12s 6d—684 George-street.
&3T D. S. MAIR for Silver Hunting Keyless Watches
(Gent’s), guaranteed 3 years, 155—684 George-street.
SW D. S. MAIR for Silver Keyless Lever Watches
accurate timekeepers, guaranteed 5 years, 255.
AST D. S. MAIR for Solid Gold Wedding Rings and
Keepers, 3dwt., 9s 6d, Hall-marked—6B4 George-street.
D. S. MAIR for Gent’s 10-carat Gold Elgin Lever
Watches, guaranteed 10 years, £6 105—684 George-street.
63T D. S. MAIR for Ladies’ Solid Gold Watches (Kev-
less). guaranteed 5 years, £2155—684 George-street.
£3T D. S. MAIR for Engraved Bar Brooches (Solid
Gold), English Hall-marked, 4s 6d.
684 Ceorge Street, SYDNEY.
PKAI! Sir. PI ase inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers
r itt-street, Sydney.
OUT RATE
Consulting and
c. 9
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
Dispensing* Chemists,
MEDICINES Securely Packed and Forwarded to All Parts of Australia
FREE FROM OBSERVATION.
THX CELEBRATED EUCRASY CUKE FOR DRUNKENNESS—ReguIar Price, ; Cut Price, 18a. ltd.
Dr. CLARKSON’S
REINVIGORATOR.
Vs the acme ot perfection. It is the best nerve,
blood, and brain tonic that medicalscienee can pro-
duce, and >s specially intended for men suffering from
nervousness, absence of mind, loss of vital foroe,
weakness of intellect, loss of will power, &c., &c., and
has never been known to fail. As a tonic for the
nerves it has no equal.
The weakness and emaciation resulting from dis-
sipation and excesses leads on to paralyiss,
epilepsy, consumption, insanity, and many bodily
diseases, through the poorness of the blood, the outcome
of these indiscretions and youthful folly.
Vital Weakness is a trouble that causes the utmost
unhappiness, being the forerunner of despondency,
melancholia, irritability, dislike of company, restless-
ness, and finally insanity and suicide. It may not
show itself in a pronounced form till you have reached
the prime of Life. What is more disappointing and
disastrous than to find yourself decaying and prema-
turely old when the fullness of vigor and virility should
mark every feature of your manhood ?
Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator is the only reliable
remedy. It replenishes all wasted substance, makes the
bodily organs sound, and the brain active and prolific.
Bv its equalising action on the circulation it strength-
ens every part of the body, disposes of adipose tissue
and replaces it with muscle of iron-bound mettle. Hen
of every age who have given it a trial declare it to be the
most wonderful- medicine ever placed before the
public.
Complete Exhaustion.— Thousands in our midst
to-day suffer complete exhaustion, and collapse with
heart palpitation after ordinary exertion. A few bottles
of the Reinvigorator will absolutely cure this weak-
ness. While you hesitate your case is getting worse, and
every day’s delay brings you nearer to the grave.
Kidney and Bladder Complaints.— ln these
dreadful complaints no medicine ever used has done so
much for our suffering people as Or. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator. Australians are the greatest sufferers
from kidney complaints and diseases. Bright’s disease is
the worst of all. You may have it without knowing the
fact. Therefore be on the safe side; take the Rein-
Vigorator and destroy the earliest germs of the malady
The Reinvigorator used for all bladder and kidney
affections has proved a wonderful success, as our testi-
monials attest. The slightest irritation of the kidneys
may poison the blood and charge it with uric acid. This
brings on rheumatism, liver congestion, giddiness,
lassitude, &c„ if not taken in time, weakens both bladder
and kidneys, and paves the way to Bright’s Disease and
kindred troubles.
Astounding Results. —The greater the weakness
and exhaustion the more astounding is the beneficial
action of Dr. Clarkson’s Reinvigorator. People af-
fected by nervousness exhibit no marked outward sign of
it, but they know themselves they are suffering from it.
The heart never fails to remind them ; sudden starts dur-
ing sleep, fear of death, ugly dreams, wakefulness and
that tired feeling on rising in the morning. Ail this and
more is easily cured by the Reinvigora or.
Charlatans and Humbugs. —You are only wast-
ing time and money consulting a class of persons who
advertise worthless nostrums which aggravate your com-
plaint or disease. We hear pitiful stories from patients
who have been grossly deceived and cruelly wronged in
this way. Their regret is sad and deep that'ihev did not
from the very first take the Reinvigorator. After
taking it no words can express their unbounded delight
at being fully restored to health and vigor.
Cures speak for themselves and we can show you
the proofs of them. Begin the Reinvigorator at once and
prepare for a Happy Xmas and a New Year of
real life and pleasure.
Price—One bottle, 7s6d ; three bottles, 20s.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
ELECTRIC BANDS
Regular Price —
One Guinea .
Strengthens the Weak.
Sustains the Strong.
CUT PRICE
10s.
POST TREE
Stimulates the Depressed.
Sanatises the In sane,
And Acts Like a Charm.
The enormous sale of these world-famed Electric
Belts is the surest guarantee of their efficiency. No man
or woman should be without one. They are infallible
against colds, rheumatism, influenza, sciatica, pains in
the back and loins, etc.
Modern Science has achieved nothing more valu-
able in the interests of suffering humanity during the
century. The Electro-Band is constructed ou the most
scientific principles, causing a gentle current to pass
along the nerves and through the body in a genial and
continuous stream, infusing new life and vigor and toning
up the system in a speedy and permanent manner.
Current Conductors. —By means of the silk-
covered metallic Electrical Conductors the current, is
conveyed to silvered discs, and through them into the
body 7. The more animal magnetism or electricity a
person is possessed of, the more life and energy there is
in the system.
Conjoint Action.- Aided so ably by Or. Clarkson’s
Reinvigorator the Electro Band acts like magic, and its
comfort is known only to those who have the wisdom to
possess and wear one. The temperature of the system
is maintained throughout, and the kidneys and liver are
protected against chills, inflammation, and congestion.
A Good Belt is worth its weight in gold. The
Electro-band differs from the common and worthless
article so extensively' advertised to combat and cure
everything. What we claim for the genuine Electro-
band has been positively proved in hundreds and thou-
sands of instances.
Liver and Stomach.— The action of the electrio
current on the liver and stomach is one of the great
eharmsof the Electro-Band. It has been scientifically
Bhown that the remedy most required to afford speedy
and efl ective assistance to the digestive organs and give
energy to the muscular and nervous systems is the
Electro-Band. The srenial current prevents the food
from being a load on the stomach and sets up a nutritive
action, than which nothing is more beneficial.
A Trying Winter.— Our customers, who safe-
guarded their constitutions with the Electro-Band
during the past trying and damp winter months, are
effusive in their praise of these Belts. Not one solitary
person who wore the Belt as directed and took the
Relnvigorator suffered the slightest effects of the
moisture and cold. What more could be desired?
Voluminous Evidence.— The Testimonials, both
oral and written, that we have received, give the
Electro Band the premier place among all competi-
tors. “ I would rather have the Electro Band than
a small foi tune,” says one of the testifiers of its excellence
—“ because I know my health and strength are assured.”
Yes ! what is of more value than health ? A fortune is no
good without the health to enjoy it.
Worthless Belt'. -Throw off the worthless belts
and w ear only our Electro Band. Prolong your life I
Postpone old age !
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
Dr. Hughea’s Fitsepilep.
This Celebrated REMEDY FOR EPILEPSY AND FITS has proved to be one of the wonders of the asre.
So successful has it proved in these cases that it has won the highest praise of all who have seen its curative effects—
a testimony endorsed by the press. Price, 6s. per Bottle, Post Free. Pamphlet Post Free.
Pyramid Pile Cure.
This is the latest specific for CURING HEMORRHOIDS. The most chronic
INYVA RD or OIJTW ' I! I) PI I,KS readily yield to this improved mode of treatment,
boxes for 10s. Postage fid. extra. Write for Pamphlet.
and obstinate character of
Price 3s. Gd. per box, or 3
We have arranged with Legally-Qualified and Registered Medical Gentlemen to give ADVICE to ALL OUR PATRONS
EREE OE CHARGE. On all Prescriptions Dispensed through this Course we will allow 25 per cent. Reduction.
Address:
Cor. Elizabeth and Bathurst Sts., Sydney.
Oo«.»xtry T**—4 jii-1 0-«r«aL»»' Sol 1


Nt r : RaSSnjtiSSco’S AlfaliQ€ Herbal Remedies.
~ More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug*.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
How to obtain “ Alfaline Guide to Health ’’—Free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
\ J
in
Jri. m
Mr. O. J. A. NIELSEN.
b Living Witness ot the virtues of the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12,1898.
To Hbkr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great a irony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I gent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and 1 have felt
as well as 1 could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as 1 know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as m> photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIEESEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
oomplaining of rheumatic With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,— Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the hush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, and their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. -Your wonderful Alfalir Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very titiwij
Blood Disease Cured.
sen. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, '99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney. —Dear Sir, —Having just
finished the course of Alfaline Blood Pills and Alfaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity. Yours Grate-
fully THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
POST
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A LFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Speciftl Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
kLF ALINE BLOOD PILLS
SSSSS-SSKSS;
* fjmirse. 435. oa.
ALFALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineTJniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the I!M>uD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING...
Patrons of Herr Pass-
neither has he autho-
rised any -person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
Serr Rassmussen, Up-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
.“ALEALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH’’ which
contains most valuable ADVICE lOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Kassmusseil.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R.. Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Anv particulars desire sent i ee.
APVICC FREE.
Jp
Mr THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
streel Sydney, stales, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: —
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass
mubsen’s Purely Herbal ALKALINE VITALITY PILLS
which I herebv solemnly and sincerely declare COM
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i ouulis, Colds, consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Allaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesb-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders—Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo 'derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts—Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. ami 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr ifassmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., Si
■ 1 il ■■ nc rnT.T.nws • #
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS
f
91 liambton Quay
N.Z-, WELLINGTON
PERTH. W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOLGARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
gd


Name of Office.
8^
*g
*s5.
&.S
<
9
Z*
s
>
1
a
•
|
3
&
*4
m
Ha
r h
BRlTIHtt.
Prudential
61
t!9>02»,lS4
£2,830,228
25.1(1
itufu£<: . —
.1/1
1,223,4(5$
617,7S5
42.22
British Workman's
and General
32
021,3U5
20(5,1*77
42.97
Louden. Edinburgh
and UUsgwv
IS
886,480
110,1)23
43. SO
London unit Al«u-
Cluistcr ..
:to
100,81)0!
44,012
44 47
Wiislcy* d and
General ..
58
377.285
172,147
4ft. t«
Pearl
36
(562,809
302,006
40.87
British l.r^ul
31)
103,032
61,175
48.27
TempuianBB and
General (Austru
linn)
28
73,977
37,804
61.10
Guineas' (Austra-
lian)
13
2110,364
110,212
37.90
A.MKcCJCA.N.
John H irnjoei
37
1,406,082
W52,tttO
80.94
Metrooulitan
6,027,502
2,050,240
•10.78
Prudential ..
23
3,400,375
1,307,(501
•13.12
Life lt». Go. of
Virginia ..
Sun Life
28
180,101
01,773
62.58
U
117,120
(52,331
63.20
IV n » t e t o and
Southern , r
11
81,871
63,312
(55.11
Yw.
f<iroeDt<>tfft of Poliiaeti Uiiseontiinied to
those in fciroe.
Industrial.
Oniiuary.
1892 ..
6t.(l
17.06
1803 ..
52
22.3
18M ..
63.5
14.3
1805 ..
47.1
17.8
IJSSHJ «
44
15.3
1S97 ..
41.8
l.i-9
1808
38.83
13.7
I8S9 ..
27.18
14.7
Year.
Accutmi-
Utei!
Fluids.
IliCJvaau
lor
Year.
Premium
Income.
Increjute
for
Year.
1895..
£252,401
£80,1)30
£166,278
£17,827
1S.0H
SRl-i, Ur.
42,714
180.667
14,689
18117..
830,989
44,874
aoo.ooa
28,231
ISOS..
424.'.K>0
84,911
236420
27,322
ISO!)..
527,612
102.742
260,749
80,328
Citizens’ Life Assurance
Company, Limited.
THIRTEENTH ANNUAL MEETING.
The thirteenth annual general meeting of the
Citizens’ Life Assurance Company, Limited, was
held at the head offices of the company, Castle-
reagh and Moore streets, on Friday, the 9th inst.,
at 11 a.in., in the presence of a large and repre-
sentative body of shareholders.
The Hon. John See, M.P., Colonial Secretary,
chairman of directors, occupied the chair, and
amongst the other gentlemen present were :—The
Hon. W. J. Lyne, M.P., Premier and Colonial
Treasurer, Mr. John J. Garvan, F.S.S. (Managing
Director), Dr. J. J. Power, Mr. F. B. Freehill,
M.A., Sir W. P. Manning (directors); Messrs.
W. R. Dovey, F.F.A. (actuary), Arthur M. Eedy
(general secretary), John Fitzsimons (assistant
general secretary), P. J. O’Driscoll (Assistant 0.8.
Secretary), the Hon. S. H. Hyam, M.L.C. (valua-
tor), John Farrell (resident secretary, Sydney), E.
C. MLaughlin, J. H. Seollin, W. M. Lafl'an, J.
A. Docking, H. Hawkins.
The Chairman (the balance-sheet being taken as
read) called upon the general secretary (Mr.
Arthur M. Eedy) to read the directors’ report,
which was done.
The Actuary’s report was taken as read.
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS.
The Chairman (Hon. John See, M.P., Colonial
Secretary), before moving the adoption of the re-
port and balance-sheet for the year ended December
31, 1899, said, “ I will refer to the more prominent
features presented by the statements of accounts.
The revenue from premiums and interest during
the year amounted to £284,305145. Bd., an increase
of £32,333 ss. Id. over that of the preceding year,
and making it the largest on record for the com-
pany. (Applause.) The claims of the year
amounted to £13,342 7s. lid. in the ordinary branch
and to £18,582 Os. lid. in the industrial branch,
making a total for the year of £31,924 14s. lOd. It
is worthy of note that in the industrial branch the
amount paid in death claims was actually less than
for the previous year. fact must be attri-
buted in a great measure to the efficiency of the
Company’s medical and superintendency staff. The
actual amount paid to policyholders since the es-
tablishment of the Company is £453,219 6s. 4d.
FUNDS.
“The funds were increased during the year by
£102,742 2s. 9d. and at the end of the year stood at
£527,642 4s. 4d. the year’s increase being consider-
ably the best on record, and bringing the total
funds now in excess of half a million sterling.
PREMIUM INCOME.
“The annual premium income on policies in
force at the close of the year amounted £291,759
18s. 7d. being an increase of £34,489 ss. 3d. over
that of last year. (Applause.)
THE YEAR’S NEW BUSINESS.
“During the year the Company completed
£1,254,778 of new Ordinary Branch assurances, a
fact which proclaims the great and increasing
popularity of the Company, and also the intense
vitality with which its operations are conducted.
I think I am right in saying that out of over 70
life offices (many of them considerably more than
50 years old) in the whole of the British Empire,
not more than 12 wrote a larger amount of Ordi-
nary Branch new business for the year under re-
view than did the Citizens’, which has confined its
operations exclusively to the sparsely-populated
Australasian colonies. (Applause.) A compari-
son with the results of former years will accentu-
ate the magnificent forward movement made.
ORDINARY BRANCH, NEW BUSINESS.
1893 to 1899 (inclusive).
Sums Yieldin'’- an Fi . rst Pre '
Year Assured. Annual Premium “'velf dur-
£ s. 0 ing year.
1893 .. 249,575 0 .. £9,849 .. £7,836
1894 .. 409,657 0 .. 16,244 .. .12,593
1895 .. 503,175 0 .. 19,599 .. 16,380
1896 .. 567,820 0 .. 21,839 .-. 16,897
1897 .. 630,205 0 .. 24,659 .. 21,122
1898 ..1,210,577 10 .. 40,176 .. 30,577
1899 ..1,254,778 0 .. 47,634 .. 36,100
Though our figures show an increase of £44,200105.
over the 1898 figures, there was actually an in-
crease of over £93,875 10s., inasmuch as a surplus
of £49,675 was brought forward from the year 1897
and credited to the 1898 figures, our new busi-
ness for 1899 was no less than five times that of
1893. (Applause.)
INDUSTRIAL BRANCH.
“ I am exceedingly pleased to be able to tell you
that our industrial branch has also made a decided
forward movement. Like the best-managed offices
in Great Britain and the United States, we do not
measure our progress in this branch by the number
of new policies written or by the new sums
assured, but by what is technically known as the
‘ increase in weekly collectible debit ’ and what
should be (if flight methods have obtained) by the
corresponding increase in the amount of premiums
actually received for the year. As regards both
these vital points, 1899 was a wonderful year.
The net increase in ‘ weekly collectible debit ’ was
considerably more than twice that registered for
1898, while the increase in actual premium receipts
was also much more than twice the increase shown
by. the figures of 1898 over those of 1897. (Ap-
plause. ) In connection with this remarkable
expansion in the industrial branch, it is eminently
satisfactory to know that our actuary reports that
the business is all done under sound tables, and
that we do not disfigure our prospectus offered to
the public with a table attractive only because
inadequate rates of premiums are quoted. And
while this great expansion might reasonably
demand a high rate of expenditure, it will be seen
by a glance at the schedule below the place the
‘Citizens’ takes amongst the best of British,
American, and Australian industrial —ordinary life
offices :
BRITISH AND AMERICAN INDUSTRIAL-
ORDINARY LIFE COMPANIES.
ANNUITIES.
“The fact that the sum of £5951 appears in
the accounts as ‘purchase-money for Annuities
granted 1 furnishes additional evidence of the high
esteem in which the Company is held, and the
confidence reposed in it. The highest amount
previously received under this heading was £270
in 1898.
THE WAR IN SOUTH AFRICA.
“The despatch of our Colonial troop 3 to the
seat of war in South Africa, attracting as it did
world-wide attention to Australasia, and affording
one of the finest instances of enthusiastic loyalty
this century can show, gave the Australasian Life
Offices for the first time opportunities for trans-
acting war risk business. Our Company was
selected by the South Australian and Tasmanian
Governments to insure the whole of the first con-
tingents from those colonies. Extra rates were,
of course, charged, though it will be interesting to
you to learn that several of the most conservative
and wisely-managed Life Offices in Great Britain
decided, in connection with the South African
campaign, to issue policies up to a certain amount
for those about to proceed on active service with-
out charging any extra premium at all. During
the year your directors, in addition to the war
risks covered, decided to grant a life-long annuity
of £52 per annum to the member of the Austral-
asian contingents who first wins that coveted
honor the Victoria Cross. This offer, in the name
of our Company, was favorably commented
upon throughout the whole of the Empire. (Loud
applause.)
RE-ASSURANCES.
‘ ‘ The first time in our history, an item of pre-
miums for re-assurances appears in our figures,
some of the assurances transacted being much
larger than hitherto.
DEATH CLAIMS.
“ Our death-rate m both branches, Ordinary and
Industrial, has been well under the expected mor-
tality-rate, and much below the general death-rate
of the community. Since the establishment of the
Company, that is, during the last 13 years, we
have paid to policy-holders, in satisfaction of
claims by death and maturity of policies, &c., no
less a sum than £453,219. (Applause.) As all of
you present to-day are aware, prompt payment of
claims has ever been, and I may say will ever
continue to be, a distinguishing feature of this
Company, and I have little hesitation in saying
also that probably nothing has made the name of
the Citizens’ so great and honored throughout the
length and breadth of Australasia as the
promptitude with which it settles all just
claims. In addition to paying the large
sum just mentioned, we hold to-day in trust
for present policy-holders more than half-
a-million sterling. (Applause.) So extensive
have our ramifications become that during the last
year we were called upon to pay claims on the
lives of policy-holders who had died in England,
the United States, and India; while, in the early
part of this year, we also settled a claim on the
life of a Tasmanian who was killed in action in
South Africa while attached to a British regiment.
(Applause.) He had effected an assurance with us
while resident in Tasmania; and, as you are
aware, our policies are issued practically free from
all rest ictions, so that he was able to enter upon
active service without paying any extra premium.
This was, I believe, the first death-claim arising
through the war settled by a Colonial office.
“In pursuance of our policy to do the very
utmost, consistent with sound business principles,
for our policy-holders, I have to state 'that a
scheme has been arranged by which assured have
the option of arranging during their lifetime for
the policy moneys to be paid by a series of annual
instalments instead of a single sum. The amounts
of these instalments are calculated so as to allow
compound interest, and the relatives are saved the
trouble of investing their money, and the subse-
quent risk of loss.
BONUSES TO POLICY-HOLDERS.
“ Our actuarial position is so sound that we are
again able to declare handsome bonuses. Whole
of life policies will receive a bonus of £1 11s. ..per
cent, if they were of less than five years’ duration
at the end of last year; or a bonus of £2 per cent.'
if they were then between five and ten years’
duration ; or £2 10s. per cent, if they were more
than ten years in force at date of division. ■ (Ap-
plause.) Endowment assurances, payable at death
or at the end of a certain number of years (including
Table XI.) will receive £1 11s. per cent., and
endowments under Table IX. and X., £1 per cent.
(Applause.) In this connection lam able to give
you a proof of the complete organisation of our
office work. As you are aware, every year our
actuary makes an annual investigation, and fro.m
his report you will notice that at the end of 1899
he had no fewer than 206,163 policies to value. In
less than three months not only had this been
done, but the bonus certificates are now in readi-
ness at the various branch offices, and will be
posted to-dhy throughout Australasia and to other
eountries wliere our policy-holders reside, immedi-
ately on receipt of telegrams, which will be
despatched on the adoption of this report. (Loud
applause.).
SAYING THE LAPSES.
“ One of the greatest problems to be solved in
the life assurance world is the reduction of lapses.
During last year the results attained by the
Citizens ’ iqider this heading were satisfactory in
the highest degree, as the tables given in our
actuary’s report will show.
“ Again, the further strengthening of our indus-
trial valuation enabled us to put into effect the
plan of granting to all holders of Industrial
Branch policies of five years duration and up-
wards, provided the life assured was 21 years old,
free policies for a reduced amount where it was
desired to discontinue the payment of premiums.
This concession has been hailed with a great
amount of satisfaction by both our Industrial
Branch policyholders and our agents. At the
same time our industrial lapse rate has been
materially reduced, evidencing the great care and
improved collecting methods exercised by the
company. (Applause.)
LOCAL DIRECTORS.
“A most important event in the year’s opera-
tions was the constitution of local boards of direc-
tors in the four colonies, of Victoria, South
Australia, Queensland, and New Zealand. As
the report says, we have been particularly fortu-
nate in securing the services of influential and
capable gentlemen, and the Head Office Direc-
torate owe them their best thanks for the valuable
services rendered by them, and feel sure that the
success of this to us new departure will be again
noticeable in the present year’s transactions.
FUNDS AND PREMIUM INCOME.
“There are two other phases of our last year’s
business to which I would like to refer in tabu-
lated form, and these are the rapid increase in the
premium income and in the assurance funds. The
figures are as follows :r—■*
NEW HEAD OFFICES.
“The company’s new head offices at the comer
of Castlereagh and Moore-streets were opened for
public business on September 1 last. They are
admittedly amongst the best and most up-to-date
of Australasian buildings, providing as they do a
magnificent front office, ample accommodation for
our ever-increasing staffs, and outside tenancies of
the best character. We now possess our own
buildings in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Wellington, N.Z., while arrangement* are being
made for the erection of suitable premises in
King William-street, Adelaide, on one of the
finest sites in that city. It is also intended to
erect in the near future new and more com-
modious premises at Wellington, N.Z., where the
demand for office accommodation is considerable.
“I feel that I cannot let the occasion pass with-
out referring to the death of the architect of the
head office building, Mr. W. W. Warded, and to
pay him our tribute of praise for his efforts on our
behalf.
“Gentlemen. —This report is a most comprehen-
sive one, and embraces all the salient and practical
points in connection with our annual balance-
sheet. We have every reason to congratulate our-
selves upon the marked improvement of the busi-
ness of last year. It appeared last year that we
had secured very big results, but by dint of per-
severance and by the unanimous manner in which
the staff has worked together, we have succeeded
in 1899 in improving upon any previous results.
I had an opportunity of visiting the branches of
our society in Victoria, Tasmania and New Zea-
land during last year, and I was agreeably im-
pressed with the magnificent loyalty that charac-,
terised the conduct of the staffs in connection with
our offices there. I think the directors may take
some credit to themselves for that, because good
men recognise good employment, good manage-
ment, honest and fair treatment ; and if a good
man discharges his duties in an institution
of this kind his services are appreciated, and re-
warded in the best manner possible. Different
motives have from time to time no doubt
prompted criticism of this institution, but, despite
all, it has gone on increasing in magnitude, in
solidity, in stability, and in the general confidence
of the people. We can give the public our assur-
ance that the policy which has brought about
these results in the past will be maintained in the
future. As the report indicates, we have, when-
ever a claim has been proved, always promptly
paid the amount. Very often in cases of sudden
bereavement, there is not too much ready cash
left in the house; the extra expense caused by
death makes it difficult for people to meet their
various requirements ; but this institution, which
is primarily an institution for the industrial
classes, recognises the difficulties that arise
in such circumstances, and as far as it can it
relieves the keenness of the distress of those
who are left behind. lam quite sure that, as
our staff and our management have been
loyal to the Citizens’ Life in the past, we may
expect just the same loyalty in the future. They
know how to deal with untruthful statements
when they are made, and you may depend upon
it such statements, as the old proverb says,
“ always come home to roost,” and recoil upon
those who make them. In endeavoring to do
injuries to others they do themselves the greatest
injury after all. The board has done its duty to
the best of its ability, and the investments which
we haye made are absolutely satisfactory. If a
foreclosure were made in any instance to-morrow
the Company would have an abundant surplus
over and above the amount lent with respect to
properties. The properties which have been
bought in various parts of the colonies have been
judiciously bought, and I can say without any
exaggeration if we wanted to sell these proper-
ties to-morrow we could realise a very substantial
profit upon them. I repeat that the advances
made upon properties have been equally satis-
factory, and the advances have been made in
an equally conservative spirit. I have much plea-
sure m offering my thanks on behalf of the board
to all the employes of the Company, from the
humblest to those who may be called the generals
of the concern. Had it not been for the conduct
of every one of these gentlemen our successes could
not have been such as they have. I trust that as
years go on each one will prove more prosperous
than the previous one. In the larger sphere of
the national life of Australia, when we shall have
the privilege of calling ourselves Australians, I
have, no doubt that we as an institution will benefit
as much if not more by the federation of the
colonies than any other concern that might be
mentioned. I have much pleasure in moving the
adoption of the report and balance-sheet for the
year 1899.” (Applause.)
Sir Wm. Manning seconded the motion at
length, which was supported by the Hon. W. J.
Lyne (Premier and Colonial Treasurer), and Mr.
F. B. Freehill.
Mr. John J. Garvan (managing director) said:—
Mr. See, Sir W. P. Manning, Mr. Lyne, and
Mr. Freehill referred to all the important items in
our report, but I would like to deal even a little
more critically with one or two items. For 1899
our mean funds earned a slightly lower rate than
was the case in 1898. Careful investigation of our
interest shows that had our funds remained
stationary, our interest ratios would not have
diminished. Our foreclosed properties, amounting
to some £9600, actually earned over 4 per cent
Therefore, the low rate of interest earned was, in
the first place, due to one of the most satisfactory
features in our report, that is the record increase
of £102,000 in our funds—an increase of about 25
per cent. This sum, in addition to £lB,OOO
remaining uninvested from last year, is accounted
for m this way: £47,000 remains on current
account in the bank, and portion of the balance
was employed in buying a partly-developed city
property, yielding a return of only about 2i per
cent. For this property we have had several
otters, and I know we could obtain a profit of
£lO,OOO to-day on the transaction. Some
people, under the circumstances, would have
charged the property with a sum that
would have brought the interest earned up
to at least 4 per cent. However, we have decided
that in this, and in every case, we will only take
credit for interest actually earned. Of course, I
do not wish it to appear that I think it altogether
a virtue not to have succeeded in investing our
funds as fast as they have accumulated. The
practice of confining our lending operations to one
or two districts in this colony, and requiring our
own valuator, Mr. Hyam, to inspect and report on
every application, has prevented us lending out
our money as fast as it accumulates, while, on the
other hand, this conservative policy has prevented
any but good business going on our books. In
fact, after 10 years’ experience of Mr. Hyam’s
valuations, I think he has shown positive genius
in arriving at correct values and steering us clear
of bad investments. In no case has any property
recommended by Mr. Hyam fallen into our hands.
“I find that the more important of our invest-
ments yielded the following interest-rates :—Free-
hold property (mean amount invested) yielded £3
11s. Bd. per cent., excluding the newly-erected
head office, the yield was £4 13s. lOdl I exclude
the head office, because we have only got four
months’ rent. Head office premises are now re-
turning 4 per cent.
Mortgages £5 17
Foreclosed properties .. 4 0 9
Government securities .. 219 0
Municipal debentures .. 4 0 4
We have now made what I believe are satisfactory
arrangements for investing our rapidly accumula-
ting funds in tbe several colonies, and should suc-
ceed in earning at least 4 per cent, from this out.
If we were not particular as to the class of
security, high rates of interest could easily be ob-
tained. In fact, I am not at all sure that un-
usually high rates of interest should not be looked
upon with suspicion. Anyone who, during the
past four years, has had substantial security to
mortgage, knows that the money has been easily
obtainable at per cent., and even less —in fact,
some institutions have advertised money to lend
at 4 per cent. Other offices are able to keep up a
high rate by charging from 6 to 10 per cent, to
their policy-holders for premiums advanced under
the non-forfeiture regulations. As each premium
is advanced interest is charged until the surrender
value is exhausted, and then the interest and pre-
mium are written off the surrender value. It
would more correctly show the interest actually
earned if unpaid interest were written off to “ in-
terest account,” or at least a separate account
kept. So that in comparing the interest rates
earned by different companies, it would be well to
consider the extent to which the item “Loans on
Policies ” formed part of the funds.
One other item I would like to refer to is our
ordinary branch expense rate of 15 per cent. It
is the envy of nearly every insurance manager in
the colonies, and I have been asked whether
maintaining our expense rate of 15 per cent, does
not entail a very heavy charge on our industrial
business. My reply is that if we had no ordinary
branch, our industrial branch expense rate would
be much greater than it is at present. The
splendid results obtained in the ordinary branch—
I allude to the large business transacted and the
unsurpassed profits divided amongst our policy-
holders—has enhanced the reputation of the Com-
pany, and popularised it amongst the masses to a
degree that would have been impossible had we
confined our attention to industrial business only.
Each branch helps the other. Take away one,
and the expenses would go up in the remaining one.
In both branches of our business, as will be seen
from the chairman’s address, our expense ratios
very satisfactory. Last year I referred to the
necessity of legislation in connection with financial
institutions. The way matters stand now, com-
panies may be formed to transact business under
the guise of life business, and by offering a contract
altogether impossible of fulfilment, attract some
business. In fact, the greatest nostrums, until
found out, meet with some success. Legislation
such as I advocate would at least compel an insti-
tution to transact its business with sufficient
premium rates.
As will be seen from the chairman’s address, the
expense rate of an industrial office all the world
over is at least 35 per cent, greater than that of
an ordinary office. The additional expense of an
industrial business must be provided for in the
premium rates. Yet we have in our midst an
enterprising venture transacting industrial busi-
ness at rates less than those considered sufficient
by the ordinary offices. The manager of that
institution, like Paul Kruger, must be leaving just
a little too much to Providence.
During the year we have made several important
changes in our executive staff—excellent changes in
the interests of the Company, for we have now
loyal and capable men, with a sound knowledge of
the business in all the more important positions
devoted to the interests of the Company. I wish
to express my high appreciation of the good work
done by everyone connected with the staff, both
clerical and field forces. (Applause.)
The motion was then put to the meeting, and
carried unanimously.
Dr. Power and Sir William Manning were
unanimously elected directors.
Dr. Power returned thanks on behalf of himself
and Sir Wm. Manning for re-election.
Mr. Robertson and Mr. Fell were declared re-
elected as auditors. It was resolved that the
directors’ fees for the current year be £l2OO, and
the auditors’ fees £3OO.
The Hon. S. H. Hyam, M. L. C., proposed a
vote of thanks to the directors, officials, and staff
for their services during the year, which was
acknowledged by Mr. See, on behalf of the
directors, and by the general secretary (Mr. Eedy)
and the actuary (Mr. Dovey) on behalf of the staff.


Medical.
ECZEMA OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., the
Prince of Wales’ Botanist.
Cures this terrible itching complaint. Not a
Grease. Does not Stain the Linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4h*6 ; post, 4/10.
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
Chemists, or direct from the
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred.J.E. Phillips,3l7 Collins St., Melbourne
I Cure Fits.
You are
notasked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE -bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. R00T, 38, Endsleigh Gdns., LON DON.
I
■
tor all forms of
Kidney & Liver Disorders
& BRIGHT’S DISEASE
H H.WARNER & C 9 LIP
MELBOURNE!, AUST
r
v;'--.
n <<'/■'
Hypnotism
Reader, why not be able to use the
roost mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hvpnotize in a few hours time, with*
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hy pnotism yon can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoih
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic, engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in,/. A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-
notize. It is a chance of a
life-time. Address-
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
*9
dr
HEALTH AND STRCN6TH
■ " may be secured without inconvenience or attention
on the part of the person taking Dr, HOPE’S l-!FE
SYRUP (liquid or pill form). Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day to day. Are you a Sufferer from bad health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to. fits of melancholy? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition? Do you feel generally debilitated?
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
Life Syrup Will Cure You.
Price 10/- and 201- ; Course 40/-
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis-
orders are cured, and in many cases by diet alone, posted
six stamps. Address :—HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling ill constitution
to i esist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak, and
debilitated children.
LANCET, “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. -“It has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
SO! n BY CHEMJSTS AI.L THE WORLD OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
gd
on'? ci,.
INDIGESTION.
jfever fails.
m
g
a
WASHINGTON .H .SOUL&C9
. 160 PITT STREET
ir. SYDNEY, A 1
df
g
Cures While
< >
You Sleep
Whooping Gough, Asthma, Group, Catarrh, Golds.
f when vaporized in the sickroom will give immediate
relief. Its curative powers are wonderful, at the same time preventing the
spread of contagious diseases by acting as a powerful disinfectant. Harnu
less to the youngest child. Sold by all chemists.
Allen & Hanbnrys Ltd.,
Plough Court,
Lombard Street,
London.
ftsrroßs TO THE OLD COUNTRY:
BAILEYS
Under Ritrcmge.
HOTEL
df
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH KE/SSIfTOTOff,
LOHDCfiSW.
THE NEW LOUNGE.
One of the FINEST examples
of modern OAK CARVING extant.
Self-contained Suites .
Public Rooms opening on to
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL BN LONDON.
■m b b
mm
m
vst
SPARKLING
m
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared with this
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & O. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Agents: BLAKEY & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 418 George Street, Sydney.
S. FREEMAN «• SONS L!!3!JES
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPEC!A r/HFS :
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
REGISTERED
9
Rtf*?
iEffejtwcCuri
Slight ImfialhBEfesUws
I Weak Eyb Dimness Ff
531 GEORGE ST
MUSHED 185
LABEL
£
CEXEQ3
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR-
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used, by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Classes.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc-
cess on the Eyes of
Cattle, Sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Uo
vt
Mil
-4
C'.Cu
V'
•j'/rr
When
writing
please
mention
The
BULLETIN.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL, APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
[They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
aiAaijiments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send foj
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE. Follow
the Footsteps ol the Wise, and Buy the Best, Cheapest,
and most Stylish Clothing' in Australia from
Lincoln, Stuart & 00. Proprietary Ltd.
252 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station).
5000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to Order, at 42/-,
is marvellous value, made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Serges, fast colors,
is perfect fitting, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84 -. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cycling Suits, 35 -
Ridingßreeehes.,2s/-. Water-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Riding Habits, etc.
Wesupplyßeady-madeMen’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-. Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serire Trou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over-
id
o
\
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys'Clothing: in Australia. Ele-
gant Tennis Shirts from 26. Undressed White Shirts,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, 2 /-, 2/11, 33. Warm Travelling
Rugs, 13 6. Gent’s splendid Balmoral Boots, 66, 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hals. 46, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 66. Caps, 1/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1/-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. And all
classes of Gent.’s Mercery.
We like to write letters, so please don’t be afraid to ask
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy of Dress,
also Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
posted Free. Write for them.
Publications.
“ EVERYONE should Read what Dr Neale
™ has to say about COLDS.”— Dunedin
Times. See “ CONSUMPTION.” Pub. Turner
and Henderson, Sydney; post 1/7. Also Skin
Diseases, by same, 1/1.
Books. Books. Books.
"POPULAR EDUCATOR—£S for £1 ss. The Home
Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for £l. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. 6d. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, lOvols.,
£7 10s. for t’2 15s. The History of Australian Bushrang-
ing, Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper.
R. W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streec, Sydney.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
OF rare, curious,
and laughable books.
As advertised in the I illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
gdf
ILLUSTRATED
TTTriTII numerous anatomical
’' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
gd
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILD ANDRADE,
.201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
fg
FRENCH
• NOVELS
translated into English
Genuine Editions.
Post Free, 1 3, 2/-, and
3/- each.
Madame PANZA,
Box 913,
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
IAHIOND SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
-together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC.
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
Medical.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFE TANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AD LT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.


Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
the eamotjs remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
tak ® n ama , z . ed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness Pain or
fortW in?llW e ; experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com
neverWn tn S T'"T ? th ®^ roat an ,f f vin 8 strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption todevelop. Consumption has
:r: 8 n prol y mcdicine - N ° be without *• **• ** a e
Beware of Coughs!
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.; —Dear Sir, —I am writing’ to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
niy case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first, the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in niv chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood ip the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my ease to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
Which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
' J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.” —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
x . Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Towny Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
tt “ Katunga, Vio.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to m,v mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M.‘ MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Hr. John S. Mortimer Lien welly n, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows:—“As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make.nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was a 1 ways taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
herto try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine.
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure.—l remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Five Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. I am more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
L SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, writes : —“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced tojtry Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS
RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. Gr. HEARVE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d, Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
LADIES !
1 Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN.
New South Wales . .
Harbors’ Supply House
680-2 George-st.,
SYDN EY.
ROYAL
WARRANT OF APPOINTMENT
Urn t* . MMsfek’'' •" * A,” /
TO
THE QUEEN.
Ask for
WbiSky aQd
‘Scbwcppe’
SCHWEPPES
SODA WATER, &c.
Ask for
Braody at)d
‘Scbweppe
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP
COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DA.FTO (liaise
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
S-STJOiKnETST.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
.
iiHsn
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEF
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinbeko, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
u Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food
9
a
m.
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
AND
THE AGED.


FOUND IN THE KIT
OF
“The Absent-Minded Beggar.”
Stowed away somewhere in the kit of more than one Australian and British soldier now fighting our Boer enemies in South
Africa is to be found a box of Bile Beans for Biliousness. Trooper Chas. O’Neill, who lias gone out from Broken Hill, has taken
more than one box, in consequence of the effect of those beans, which he had opportunity to judge of prior to his departure; and,
doubtless, soldier or civilian who had had a similar experience to his would be equally enthusiastic as to the properties of this
wonderful medicine. Prior to O'Neill’s departure for the seat of war he wrote the following letter, which undoubtedly proves that
Bile Beans for Biliousness are a truly wonderful medicine: —
Trooper Oharees O’Neill.
“ It affords me the greatest pleasure to be able to give you this testimonial, and I do so in
the hope that others who may be suffering as I have done will recognise the fact that there is a
positive cure for them if afflicted with bilious headaches. I may tell you that for the past few
years I have been a perfect martyr to severe bilious headaches. Everyone knows what bilious
headaches are, but few, I think, have had such an experience with them as I have. I had to be
very cautious as to my diet, and was unable to eat what I liked for fear of bringing - on one of
the headaches I dreaded. I consulted doctors in different parts of New South Wales, and tried
almost every patent medicine on the market,, but without deriving any benefit. One day I
noticed an advertisement in the Sydney Bulletin, and thought there must be something good
in BILE BEANS if they could keep up such advertisements. I purchased a box, and com
menced taking them, and I firmly assert that I actually felt great relief before 1 had finished
the contents of the first box. I then bought two more boxes, and I am now. completely cured.
I have not had a recurrence of biliousness or, headache for months, and as I used only Bile
Beans I know they alone effected this marvellous cure I can recommend them to all who suffer
as I did, and you may rely on my telling all I come across about Bile Beans. T think it only
right that I should give this testimonial. The Bile Beans have made me a new man, and I can
both sleep well and eat what I like. I consider Bile Beans the best medicine, and w ill never
take anything else,. I have always a box at hand, and have already been successful in inducing
several friends to take them, and with success.”
Thus it comes about that Trooper Charles O’Niell is again a happy, healthy man ; and a soldier in South Africa has in his knap-
sack that which will make many a suffering Tommy Atkins, who has lost interest in life through the ravages of biliousness, aggravated
by sea-sickness, take heart again, and fight with renewed energy our common foe.
Bile Beans for Biliousness act on the bowels in a gentle, natural way, and the patient is not weakened in any manner by the
process. The enormous success of this preparation the world over is the best possible proof of its great worth. Millions use Bile Beans
annually, and thousands say they are an undoubted specific for biliousness, indigestion, sick- and nervous headache, constipation, influ-
enza, colds, piles, female weakness, pale-faced girls, bad breath, pimples, dizziness, all liver and kidney troubles, dyspepsia, pain in
back and side, fullness after eating. Bile Beans are obtainable from storekeepers and chemists generally, price, Is. lid. per box. or
the Australian Depdt of the Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., 39 Pitt-'street, Sydney, will send one box for 13id. in stamps oKpost-office-
order.
A Theatre Party.
They took a box at the Theatre Royal to see the
performance of “ Trilby.” The party was com-
posed of four young- men and four young ladies.
They all enjoyed the performance with'the excep-
tion of one pale-faced, sickly young lady, who was
suffering from a severe sick headache. That sick
headache was caused from biliousness, constipa-
tion, or some derangement of the digestive organs.
Bile Beans for Biliousness is an excellent remedy
for such a complaint. They put the digestive
organs in good working order, and enable them to
carry off the waste matter of the body. Indigestion
is the result of a disordered liver, and no specific
has yet been manufactured which will act more
conclusively and directly upon the liver as Bile
Beans for Biliousness. They are beyond doubt
essentially a medicine for the regulating of the
whole of the digestive organs. Bile Beans keep
the body free from detrimental outside influences,
and consequently lessens the danger peculiar to a
girl just verging into womanhood.
Every Cat Must Catch a Mouse.
It is no use to keep a cat in the house unless she
does her duty. She is there to catch mice, and
unless she does so she might just as well be outside
the house. So it is with the organs of the body.
Every organ must do its duty, and thus keep the
body in perfect order.
Bile Beans for Biliousness will do this, and is
doing it every day. The great discovery gives the
stomach and liver power to do their work natur-
ally and regularly. Bile Beans make healthy
blood and steady nerves. They make the weak
spots sound and strong. They are the only medi-
cine that can be relied upon for strengthening
every organ of the body. Bile Beans for Bilious-
ness are compounded to act on the liver, and
through it on the blood, and through the blood on
the whole system. They will be found most effi-
cient in all cases from that of the most common
pimple to the severest.of blood ailments.
CURE
A Question of Color.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Jeffertons prided themselves on their “caste.”
It was not that they lived in a thirty-roomed
stone house, with gardens sloping down to the
waters of Elizabeth Bay, owned a butler, a superb
set of driving equipages, and mixed only in the
very best society Sydney offers. Those things
were mere details to the Jeffertons, appendices
that anyone with money could acquire. But
there was one thing that neither money nor man’s
brains, nor woman’s scheming could counterfeit—
and that was the high, hard, impervious “ caste ”
in which God had graciously set Mrs. Jefferton
and her antecedents, and -ir. Jefferton and his
antecedents.
People living round about spoke sneeringly, and
called the caste “cast-iron.” Even His Excel-
lency’s aides—well-bred young men from England,
sporting captains, and fellows with “Major”
before their names—groaned among themselves,
and added that awful word, “ colonial,” and never
took into consideration the fact that Mr. Jeffer-
ton’s grandpapa had been an English Judge, and
that Mrs. Jefferton’s paternal ancestor had been
—first, English; secondly, a somebody ; thirdly,
had entertained a prince.
Skipping the judicial grandfather and the im-
portant ancestor, and coming nearer to the Jeffer-
tons as they were, you found —from friends of the J’s
—that Mrs. Jefferton’s father had come in a hazy
manner to Australia in his fifteenth year, married
a backblock cook before he reached the twenties,
and had died a wealthy storekeeper at TJlladulla
just as he came to forty year, and ere he had had
the opportunity to assert himself in his true
superior light as an English gentleman and son of
a Judge. Why is it that marrying a cook sticks ?
Is it anything to do with her paste ?
And the same friends would gladly supply you
with information about Mrs. Jefferton’s people.
Her parents had “come out,” made much money
at the gold-rush at Araluen, and had sent her
home to an English boarding-school, and kept her
there till she was 19. Then she had returned to
Sydney an English girl, had met young Jefferton,
who had no connection with his mother’s store in
Ulladulla, and the two young people had drifted
into matrimony, and lived quietly at Newtown,
until Isabel grew up, and Mr. Jefferton’s money
prospered, and Mrs. Jefferton’s money assisted in
the prosperity. Then they took a trip home,
and returned with lovely furniture and the quiet,
remote manners that always impress the mercurial
people of Sydney, and settled down in the thirty
rooms at Elizabeth Bay.
Everybody called in time. It took about five
years to work up to the present pinnacle, but in
five years the Jeffertons’ position as highly-select,
wealthy, cultured people, whom nobody liked, was
apparently secured.
Isabel made her debut, was admired, but no-
body fell in love. Ethel was brought before the
world, and would have passed ymnoticed only for
her frocks, which she insisted on calling
“ Worth’s,” even when they came from an excel-
lent dressmaker in London. Then pretty Gladys
was launched, and distinguished herself by be-
coming engaged to an aide in her first season. The
‘engagement was broken off during the summer;
the aide found he was delicate. Friends said he
"found Mrs. Jefferton strong. Heart-disease was
probably the trouble, as he returned to England,
and a year after married the girl people said he
had always been really in love with.
So there was Mrs. Jefferton with three,
daughters, thirty rooms, and a butler on her hands;
to say nothing of her caste and Mr. Jefferton’s,
and other troublesome details that required con-
tinual looking after to keep the shine on them.
Still, there was no doubt that the Jeffertons
were Somebodies. I mean to say, the Jeffertons
had no doubt that other people had no doubt on
that point. But, unfortunately, other people
have a knack of knowing about as much as we
know ourselves.
In Sydney society things are queerly managed.
English people with the Home-brand upon their
tongues and clothes, are run after, but not much
liked. The pure-bred colonial society admires,
reveres, but hastens to get into its own colonial
atmosphere when it wants to feel the joy of life.
People who took the Jeffertons at their own
valuation, and thought them very English, visited
them, but couldn’t stand too much of their
superior atmosphere. People who knew all about
the dead and gone cook, and the store at Ulla-
dulla, and the gold-miner and his wife at Araluen,
would have taken the Jeffertons to their bosoms
if —well, you see, they were so impossibly, ridi-
culously important, were the Jeffertons.
Kitty Allison went to a dinner party there one
winter, and came home pale and wrathful.
“I’ll never go there again, mother,” she an-
nounced.
“Why not, dear?”
“After dinner there were a lot of stiff, silly
people with thin legs and affected voices, gathered
from Heaven knows where. There was one nice
man—off a boat. He and I got on well. I didn’t
know and didn’t care that he was Lord Some-
body’s son. But when I went out on the verandah
with him to look at the moon, I distinctly heard
Mrs. Jefferton say, in that horrid loud voice of
hers that she thinks is so distingue, ‘A naice
gairl, Miss Allison. What a pity she is so
colonial! ’ ”
“ Well, I never ! ”
“ Well, and so I am colonial, and so I mean to
be. What is Gladys ? What is Ethel ? What is
Isabel ? Hybrid nothings. My goodness, mother,
I wouldn’t be those girls for a thousand pounds a
day. And why are they not colonials? They
were born here. So was their mother; so was
their father. They’re so posed, and pinioned,
and so terribly afraid people won’t know they
were at school abroad, and so fearfully frightened
of laughing off the wrong side of their faces, and
saying six words instead of five, or having a bit of
fun, or a little flirtation, or a joke, or a lark ”
“ Kitty 1 ”
“Well, mother, there are larks in the world,
and the Jeffertons go on as if there couldn’t pos-
sibly be such impossible, unutterable, common,
no-class things as—oh, well, I only mean little
brown larks that rise up singing and make every-
body a bit happier.”
Later on, jolly Kitty married the son of the
lord who had watched the moon rise over the bay
with her from the Jeffertons’ verandah. Oh, yes,
the Jeffertons went to the wedding. But that
wasn’t much comfort, considering how the wedding
miyht have been arranged.
And Kitty went home and ruled over a mansion
in London, and always kept open house for
‘ ‘ colonials, ” whether they were poor singers and
artists, or wealthy squatting folk, or just heavily-
glided nobodies trying to have a good time in the
frozen London atmosphere that all their burning
gold could not melt,
It was in the year 189— that the remarkable
social occurrence happened that put the climax to
Mrs. Jefferton’s career.
A new Governor was sent out who was young,
handsome, clever, poetic—and unmarried.
Then was Mrs. Jefferton’s star rising con-
tinuously in the ascendant. Everything a woman
could do she did. She dressed herself and her
girls superbly, with that sort of delicate superb-
ness which makes a woman squirm and mere man
admire, he knows not why. She called straight
off. She called a£ fain a little later. She left cards
on every one of the four ladies who had come as
visitors with his youthful Ex. Then, at the
Races, leaning on the arm of Mr. Jefferton, she
calmly approached the vice-regal party, and shook
hands all round. Everyone pretended to remem-
ber her. What else could they do ? For that
matter, they met so many people that they never
knew whom they did not know. So they knew
Mrs. Jefferton, and she remained chatting volubly
to Lady Ray and Lady Jane, of deah London,
while Jefferton button-holed the pale, pretty
youth, with the delicately - curved smile, who
represented Her Majesty in New South Wales.
And Sydney tugged at each other’s sleeve and
cried, “ Look at the Jeffertons ! ”
After that magnificent sortie, there was nothing
Mrs. Jefferton would not do. She invited the
whole vice-regal party to her ball, and the two
aides who came were really more than anybody
else would have caught just then—two weeks after
His Excellency’s arrival, and everything still in a
wild state of confusion up at Government House.
Already she saw the three girls married. Gladys
was to have the enormously wealthy Captain
Grey, a distinguished Anglo-Indian visitor. And
Ethel was to take either the intellectual Mr.
Noddle, Captain Grey’s travelling companion, or
whichever of the three new aides she chose, and
Isabel —but let me not record the dreams of
Isabel’s match.
The blow fell with His Excellency’s first ball.
Do you remember that ball, now historic and ever-
green in the annals of Sydney society ? Through
the dark warm night the Jeffertons’brougham drove
-till it joined the long line of cabs and carriages
that covered the vice-regal carriage way. At nine
o’clock they had come to the front doors of Gov-
ernment House, and were being assisted from the
carriage by two gorgeous footmen in red plush
breeches and ‘pale fawn coats. In they all went,
happy, smiling, and confident of a glorified even-,
ing. Gladys—but this is not the place for that.
Ethel—not yet. Isabel —
They uncloaked rapidly and shook the creases
from their flowing brocades, mousseline de-soies,
and lace polonaises: Then they rustled elegantly
into the hall to meet ‘ ‘ papa, ” and go forth to con-
quest. A stout lady met them in the doorway,
and nodded affably.
“’Ow are you, Mrs. Jefferton? Got a white
ticket or a blue ? ” said she familiarly.
Mrs. Jefferton stared haughtily.
“Me and my ’usband ’ave the blues, of course.
Why, don’t you know what I mean. The invita-
tion card. Did you get a white one ? ”
Mrs. Jefferton stumbled in her haughty blind-
ness and fell. Not knowing what she was meeting,
she put forth no defence, and said consequentially,
“ Ah, of course : a whaite ! ”
“ Then you go in by that door,” said . the stout
lady, who had risen from a cabhage, just as the
children,say. “ His h’Ex. only receives folks with
blue tickets like us, but people' with white tickets
like youm just goes in unannounced.”
And this from a woman sprung from cabbages !
And as she had said, so it was. The blue tickets
were still being received in the hall by that curious
young Oxonian who had dared to bring “ ideas ”
inside Government House. One glance was
enough to show Mrs. Nobody Jones and her, im-
possible daughter, Mrs. B . But Mrs. Jeffer-
ton could look no further. Somehow she and her
flock passed through the undistinguished plebeian
door, waved thither by a portly flunkey, and lost
themselves in the crowd.
All the evening one sentence rang in poor des-
pairing, anguished Mrs. Jefferton’s ears, “Blue
tickets or white ? ” Everyone asked it of every-
one. Some were white with anger ; some took it
as a joke. The blue tickets didn’t see what all the
fuss was >bout. The innovation shed surprise
everywhere. For the blue tickets had come not
knowing there were white, and the white had
come wotting not that there were blue.
“If I had known,” said Mrs. Jefferton, darkly.
In vain Mr. Jefferton explained that he had in-
quired and discovered no social slight was in-
tended. The blue tickets were sent by His Excel-
lency to heads of departments and officials holding
the entree at levees.
She only laughed, a broken-hearted, little sneer-
ing laugh, and realised that she was growing old
and tired, and that it would be nice to stay at
home and sit on the verandah and watch the bay
these warm evenings, and smell the hyacinths
stealing up from the first terrace, and be middle-
aged and quiet. Her thoughts went back a long
way, as far back as Araluen, that happy valley of
her childhood when she ran bare-footed over the
dead gum-leaves, and never knew that the world
was a den of thieves and liars.
For if any of them had really cared they would
have broken all rules and regulations, and sent, her
and her girls blue tickets, even at the cost of civil
war.
Luckily the girls thought nothing about it. You
see, they were all otherwise engaged that evening.
That little red-faced boy, Harry Fish, proposed
to Gladys after the first extra.
“ I’ve always been awfully gone on you,” he
said. “I never could bear girls who put on
starch, and pretend they’re English, and all that.
At first I thought you did, but —oh, Gladys,
you’re awfully pretty, you’re awfully sweet ! ”
He was only one of the Fishes of Goodeegoo
Station—as colonial as they make ’em—and he had
never been out of New South Wales, but he might
have been a far Antarctic whale for the proud and
happy light in Gladys’ grey eyes as he swallowed
her up in his arms.
And Ethel—it was during the supper lancers, I
believe, that she gave her hand to a man with three
hundred a year in the civil service, whom she
shamelessly told she had loved for seven years, but
thought he would never speak.
And Isabel—lsabel who had been before the
public ten years and four months last June, it took
dances 7, 8 and 9, and the first extra, also the
second extra to settle her fate, and see her
properly sealed and bound over to a middle-aged
tutor, who had been to England certainly, but was
never likely to go again, poor chap !
Afterwards Gladys told Harry she had heard
mamma telling papa she was sure the poor dear
girls would never have thrown themselves away
that night if they had not been feeling the
degradation of their white tickets so keenly.
Harry grinned.
“They always put white tickets on bargains,”
was what he said.
M. L. M.


THE MUTUAL STORE, Ltd..
Universal Providers.
Grocers, Wine and Spirit Merchants,
Provision Dealers, Drapers,
Outfitters, and General Furnishers.
BEST QUALITY ONLY.
The Mutual Store, Ltd., Flinders-st., Melbourne
IMPORTANT -A.3\T3NT j
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, an
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUi
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth
THE
PLUM
df
Price —SINGLE RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CR.A.IG- <£z AIXICBKT, 680 GEORGE ST., SVTTMTn-V'
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST.
X.o2idon, E.C.
Established as a connecting- link between Australian Properties and the financial Market of London b
PMA.KTK JA.R.ITIS
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old count'
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency term
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. Wales— HARRIE AVOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland -Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen ..reet, BRISBANE.
Victoria .JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
for more Than One Hundred years
SOAP
has maintained its supremacy in the face of the whole
world’s competition. Such a record could not be
achieved without cause. Temporary successes are com-
paratively easy, but for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man who has once tried Pears’ Soap in the form of a
Shaving Stick wants no other, he takes it with him on all
his journeys. The woman who travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
“ matchless for the complexion.”
Christmas Belle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wind-strewn wheat lay far and wide upon the
paddocks bare,
The place all told the signs of drought—for we had
had our share,
‘Next week the interest will be due on our
selected land
Dad smoked and smoked, his care-lined face upon
his heavy hand.
“ There’s only three more years to run ; it must
be paid—but how ?
There’s but one beast upon the farm I care a rap
for now;
There’s but one beast will raise the wind, so, as I
must, I’ll sell.
The Sydney buyer’s sure to bid for the old mare,
Christmas Belle.”
“ Eleven years, since she was foaled, down in the
paddock there;
Pretty as paint she always was, easy to keep and
care.
Your mother rode her many a time the year before
she djed,
And little Tim, that went Beyond, could sit on
her astride.
We never did great shakes with her, although she
once raced well,
She had a temper of her own—had game old
Christmas Belle ! ”
Then Dick (we reckoned Dick was hard !) beckoned
us two away—
“ We’ll sell our own d——n mokes,” said he, “ and
let the old mare stay ! ”
With spotless sijirts and shining spurs we stood
prepared to go,
’Twas ten miles to the Lachlan Bridge, and we
must canter slow.
The missus (she is none too bad) came out among
us men,
She gave one look at old Dad’s face and went
straight in again.
Young Mollie kissed old Belle’s white nose, the
kids were everywhere;
And Phil, the jockey of us all, reckoned to ride
the mare.
But Dad’s mouth took an ugly twist, of old we
knew it well ;
“ You’re smart,” said he, “ but none but me shall
part with Christmas Belle.”
The blacks, with long-tailed, knock-kneed brutes,
came trailing up the road,
And Chinamen and half-caste boys on wall-eyed
mongrels strode.
Three hundred horses walked and pranced and
crowded round the course,
And wild Bess Flanagan was there to sell her
coal-black horse.
We scrambled for our tickets then, and pushed
up near the gate,
For four strong men on four good hacks, the
weaker ones must wait.
They gave us decent standing-room and civil
tongues as well —
She’d give a good substantial kick, would that
same Christmas Belle!
We saw the buyer was no fool—he wore no vest
nor coat;
But it didn’t affect his dealing, fo he hadn’t
learnt by rote.
We had no luck with our three nags—my horse,
though strong, was small,
And Dick’s —a splendid galloper—too leggy and
too tall;
While Phil’s, the best of all the three, performed
and played-up high,
So now we had no choice at all but let the old man
try.
He straightened up his rounded back, he tightened
up the girth,
And then he let the old girl rip for all that she
was worth.
She sped like some slow-moving bird upon the
dusty grass,
And groups of men stopped in their talk to watch
the old man pass ;
The buyer’s eyes took sudden light, the sound of
hoofs grew low,
And madcap Bess, she held her breath to see the
brown mare go.
“ Grand pace,” the buyer said. “ What price ? ”
“Sixteen,” the boss replied—
He wanted just the interest due—no blood-money
beside.
“Now, take the saddle off—just there.” Dad did
as he was told;
The buyer nodded, Dad stood back, and Christ-
mas Belle was sold !
Dad bargained with the auctioneer to send the
interest down,
He bought a flask of old Three Star and then made
straight from town.
We stayed behind in Willoughby and helped to
raise the fun,
We chaffed the girls, and shouted drinks as we
had always done.
At dusk we rode like funeral mutes along the
mountain track,
We would have given all we had to fetch the
brown mare back.
The wind blew cold across the range, the grey
mists heavy fell,
The night we sent to face the war the old mare
Christmas Belle.
JOHN CAREW.
A One-Night-Stand: A Theatri-
cal Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The company got out of the train with the usual
handfuls of queer packages, battered bandboxes,
and portmanteaux tied with clothes-line. Mr.
Bassett—the manager—seeing the crowd on the
station, thought of an idea he had not used of late.
Gathering the company round him he read aloud
from a'letter, gaudily litho’ed “ Bassett’s Dramatio
C 0.,” the agent’s advices as to hotels. The crowd
made an impressed audience.
Furnival, Miss Peyton and Leigh at the Club
Hotel; Jarvis, Mr. and Mrs. De Kane at the
Court House,” and so on through the twenty
names on the day bills. But little Miss Peyton,
who was new to the business and Mr. Bassett’s
methods, spoilt it all by her innocent high treble.
“But, Mr. Bassett, there’s only eight of us.”
“Here, my dear,” he snapped, quickly, with
politeness in his voice and fury in his eye. “ Here
—the others will come by a later train.”
* * * *
Mr. Bassett had cultivated a commercial bag-
man in the train, and the bagman had yielded a
flask, sandwiches, and novels. He also named his
hotel. Mr. Bassett said he had intended staying
there also—so they went down in the hotel-cab
together. They entered like brothers, the com-
mercial laughing at Mr. Bassett’s stories. Any
doubt the landlady might have had was checked,
because the commercial was an old and honored
customer.
The drummer proposed drinks. Over the beer
Mr. Bassett explained why he refused William-
son’s last offer. He had the letter in his
pocket and produced an envelope stamped
“Princess Theatre” by way of corroboration.
It really had contained a communication from
Williamson about Mr. Bassett’s unauthor-
ised production of “The Sign of the Cross” at
Jingolong—but it was a valuable property to
produce on occasions.
Presently a head peered in the doorway and Mr.
Bassett was called. He had been pouring scorn
on Julius Knight and angrily asked the reason of
the interruption. The Company was waiting to
see him.
“ The hotels won’t take us in without payment
in advance,” was the trouble worded in whispers
out of consideration for Mr. Bassett’s landlady’s
ears.
Mr. Bassett was indignant—also in whispers—
about the rapacity of the landlords. He blamed
the company for want of tact.
“ Had you pointed out that I was responsible it
would have been all right. Have you tried the
Royal ? ”
They had not. Mr. Bassett advised them to
try the Royal. He knew the house —he had
stopped there himself.
“Jarvis, you will seethe printer and order three
thousand more dodgers. We shall probably stay
an extra night here. And hire a couple of
carpenters; I want that tank properly set to-night,
or my dive will be spoilt.”
This last was delivered with full voice, for the
benefit of the neighborhood at large. The com-
pany—dry, dusty, down at the heels—turned
down the street again, and Mr. Bassett returned
to his beer.
Now there are pavement actors, dressing-room
comedians, and bar tragedians. Mr. Bassett was
a star among the latter. Given a bar, a share of
its contents, a listener or two, Mr. Bassett could
perform whole repertoires.
The commercial was listening intently, spell-
bound by the maudlin mesmerism of the other eye,
when the heads again appeared. Mr. Bassett was
greeted with a chorus of grumbles.
“No Royal Hotel in this place. Been to them
all. Never was a Royal Hotel.”
“Theatre Royal—you all stop at the Theatre
Royal,” said Mr. Bassett, with contempt.
The company, used to submitting, understood.
They were to sleep in the hall, as the treasury was
not equal to hotels.
“But our meals? ” was suggested. .
“Meals? Ah, yes! Didn’t I give you a
shilling apiece in the last town ? ”
“We spent that on our dinners.”
“God of my fathers!” {with an attitude).
“ You’ve spent the price of two meals on one ! I
really cannot assent to such extravagance.”
“ It’s all very well for you, governor. You can
always strike beer,” said the low comedian.
Mr. Bassett swelled.
“Must I endure your impertinence as well?
Here am I working like a galley-slave to get you
through, and I meet with nothing but ingratitude.
Some managers would leave you, but I stick to my
people ; and this is what I meet with.”
He talked till the company was cowed into
silence, and, having promised to arrange for their
teas, they left him.
* • * •
But only the ladies received any—the men were
abused for their lack of enterprise, and told to
“ hustle—as I had to in my young days.”
They had a bad house at night—money was an
impossibility. The kind commercial had sent
down some beer, and a mutton - bone the
property - man had secured for a stage -
supper had enough meat on it for a
real one. The total cash in hand of the company
was sixpence—made up by four. It purchased
tobacco for all. Furnival —on the strength of
having had some washing done in the last town—
was reputed to have a sock, but he publicly
showed empty pockets at the fifth application for
a loan. The curtain was lowered and the stage
made the ladies’ bed-room. The men slept on the
forms in the auditorium. Wild schemes were
talked before sleep—the suggestion of forming a
company “on their own,” getting a friendly
printer to advance dodgers, and working the
shearing-sheds. Jarvis thought of trying for a
billet, but he had only been three years in the
business and didn’t know better. The ladies cried.
They had reason to despair —there was not a
gilded johnny within 50 miles.
Despite rats and roaming tarantulas they slept.
* * * *
Very early in the morning Mr. Bassett inter-
viewed the station-master. He wanted to be
allowed to travel to the next town, leaving his
luggage as security for the fares which he did not
hold. The station-master refused point-blank.
Mr. Bassett besought, begged, bullied, was im-
pressive, called on his good name—to no purpose.
The company—more forlorn than ever—stood
round commenting on the official’s heartlessness.
Suddenly Mr. Bassett came out of the office.
“Into the train, boys and girls—first-class car-
riages ! ” he ordered.
The company got in. The guard came for
tickets. The company referred him to Mr. Bas-
sett, who said “See the station-master.”
The s.m. appeared. “ You have no tickets.”
“ Well,” said Mr. Bassett, “ what are you going
to do about it ? ”
“Get out!”
“ What are you going to do about it ? ”
It was a small station with only one porter. No
policeman was visible. The train was late and
could not be longer detained. The s.m. had no
resource. He banged the door, threatening to
wire to detain Mr. Bassett’s luggage at the next
station, and the*train moved. The company were
joyous; Mr. Bassett went to sleep in his corner
untroubled by thoughts of luggage, as that was a
matter belonging to the next town.
STROLLER.


A Most Strengthening and Invigorating Tonic
Takes out impurities from the blood, brings back an
appetite for good food, imparts strength to the nerves,
gives energy and power.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
#//
mm
m
n
M
%
///
f/6
m
Mrs. L. Kennington, of Station St., Petersham, New South Wales, sends us
the above portrait of herself, with the following letter:
“ I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and have found it a wonderful strengthen-
ing and invigorating tonic and restorative.
‘ ‘ Some time ago I caught a severe cold and an attack of rheumatism fol-
lowed. I suffered terrible pains, could not eat or sleep, and feared I might be-
come a helpless invalid.
“I did not obtain any relief until I was given a prescription for * Sarsa-
parilla.’ My husband took it to a chemist, who said, ‘Try Ayer’s.’
“ I noticed a decided improvement from the very first, and I was soon able
to do my work again. I know of several people who owe their good health to
this great medicine.”
These remarkable results are not due alone to the sarsaparilla in Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. They are due to the combined action of many ingredients. No
other sarsaparilla contains the same medicines. There is no other sarsaparilla
like “ Ayer’s.” This is why the people call it
“The World’s Creates! Family Medicine.”
"Ayer’s ” cures. You know this. You have to experiment with others,
and you can’t afford to do that.
. For removing impurities from the blood, for making thin blood become
rich and life-giving, for restoring strength and vitality, and for building up the
nervous system, there is but one' medicine :
AYER’S SareapariHa
That” Cures.
It Removes Depression.
Ayer’s Pills Act on the Liver, more Bile is Secreted.
gd
PLAIN NO/V|€ TALK.
KMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Paves.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of .youngand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the'imformation em-
-1 laced m its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
* loth-covered edition of this £reafc work, PLAIN HOME TALK
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody : public speaking made easy, is fid nost
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is fid. 1
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards illus
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is The
Art ok Wrestling, post Is.
LoVe and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is fid posted. Clog Dancing Tutor Is.
Aust. Miner's Guide ; simple tests for minerals.’ 3s'6d.
Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book ok Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets oe Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6(1 post free
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted
Lovers Letter Writer., Is post. General Letter
Whiter, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history)
Is 6d posted. ' Jh
Edith O’Gor.man’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post
Up-to-Uate Comic Reciter (newest), lsCd post free
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest son»-s
Is 3d post free. ' ° ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted
Physiognomy, is 3d posted. v
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
the numerous SPI'XJIALLY raTnMtSgnNOAOT'wSEBOO&hSttiS^Sw&d
i. y r. ’ HuSS’of OTEciii feSsi^r‘f srsg ™'oS£‘zj\s ti ° a -
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK OATAMgK, Tent
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
"X’CJ DEFY COMPBTITIOIff.
WINES The Best Brands Only of
&c
manufacturers of mineral waters, cordials, &c.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE
mwm
I T7OR Bilious aiirl Nervous Disorders, sneh as Wind nnri p.,:,, ~ n, , ,
J 1 Giddiness, Fulness and Selling a f<7 Meals 7>iJ7l Vn the ? toma ° h - Sick Headache,
ings of Heat, Loss of Appel, SI, r7,sfo D ™ in f e f’ Cold Chills, Flush!
turbed Sleep. and all i\ervo.-s and Ll i « Cos >veness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
WILL G.VE RifLTKF IN TWENTY MCNUTT'S ® en f.^'!° n ?' THE FIRST DOSE
, aumlT'A%OxJ- °“ e BbX 0f t % l>ills ’ ; *“ d be 1 acknowledged To A
promptly remove any the a^ 8 40 C °' npletc health * They
Weak Stomach,- Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
MuLufa7!sv7,7r g Wmn7?n,a 0 r S w 2 rork wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
cuJai system l estoi mg the long-lost Complexion; bringing back the keen ed<m of annetite and
Nervouf and Debimaf b Jp aII < vIT 7 soci ° ty > and one of thc best guarantees .to the
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENOLAHD.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9id, Is and 2s 9d each.
fg
JHKMr lASI
<m
Perfuue
Sen-Sen
ARRINGDONAVEfffI(L„
LONDON. \
INVALUABLE TO
SINGERS & SPEAKERS
ScKj
feTJ.
LEA
SAUCE
I
Observe the
Signature
SA
STERSHIRFsif
tfAKoPEW*
3T t*AM3SE'*O
,r) Blue Ink
the Outside
of every Bottl e ■
ORIGINAL WORCESTERSHI RE
AGENTS : Messrs VIRGOE, SON, and CHAPMAN,
and DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- BX.DRIEG-E &c GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS*
40 YORK STUJWi'JT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by t%st from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
E^ 1- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
REMEMBER
THE WONDERFUL
CURATIVE PROPERTIES
BONNINGTON’S
MOSS
FOR
Coughs and all Lung Complaints.
Mr. J. G. BEATTIE, Hillgrove, writes: “ Dear Sirs. —I experienced immediate relief
when suffering from a severe cold in the head and throat upon taking a few doses of vour
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.”
Bonnington’s Pills.
Great Cure for Bile,
and all Liver Disorders.


dfg
df
fringes,
tfttoraJ Curly, from S/3 sank.
PLAITS and TAILS,
*Wn. lon*, 6/8. all real bai*.
CUTTINGS * COMBU*G«
i'VOjjfted up, ?/8 per oz.
are the cb
Walla far all Hair VYorfc.
Send Color ot Hair. >'
W. H. Wigzcll)
110 WtU.IAN Street.
corner of Palmer street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
;
Send stamp* for full Price List* * J
fvappt attention given to Countiy Grdcm
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman's Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
E P PS ’ S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER
ROBERTS’
George and ELI BJJf ■
Market-Sts. ■® A# S fCm mLm
Board or Apartments at Option.
nsammatt’s
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
SPOON'S & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
<£hc
vm
J. & J. MAXFIELD, PrOpes., SHEFFIELD
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
The (9|ost powerful Qriving Belt in the florid.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India ,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working.
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead, Works,
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON ... Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER ... ... 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
gd
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
mi pmirr belts
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed-
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents t
Wm, Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
FRESH
FOOD & lOE GO. LTD.
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • ••
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use bad butter is dear
at any price. The famous “ Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
H.
PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
&
Sydney:
PRICES
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS AND
60 Clarence Street.
Have in Stock for Immediate Delivery
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
ENGINES, BOILERS, COMPRESSORS, DRILLS,
CRUSHING ROLLS,
CONCENTRATORS, HUNTINGTON MILLS,
—AND—
All kinds of General Machinery and
Engineer Fittings and Supplies.
Blake Steam Pumps
gb=sg
Single and Duplex,
Vertical and Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping purpose.
Estimates given for Complete Pump-
ing Plants, including Boilers,
Piping, &c.
Blake Duplex Pump. Sole Agents for Australasia :
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sale Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WOix. Hi.
\i U A i
trade mark.
Worthington Pumps
BOILER FEED PUMP
for Every Service,
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . .
