

McEWAN’S ALE- GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE
= FRY’S MALTED COCOA
aUARAKrTEEP FXTEtE OOCOA Ak.33GTI3 EXTRACT OS' iw a T.»n
r. a; wAmimlcW,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
cr; steel «fldf Special CHAINS
W 1
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST
AUSTRALIA.
US' Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° <» mt stmt, SYDNEY.
„ AgentB for The Jeffrey Manufacturing Co., Columbus, Ohio, United States, America.
Elevating and Conveying Machinery . . .
Detachable Chain Belting' Steel Cable Conveyors, Seamless Steel Elevator Buckets, Carriers, Labor-saving Appliances, Coal, Ore and
Crain Handling Machinery, Power Transmission Machinery, Coal Washing and Mining Machinery.
THORNE’S “=
A 1 WHISHT.
SANDEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINAB L E AT ALL HOT K L S AND LICENSED, G R OCBRS
f
HOBART.
Hadley’s Orient |jotel.
jPJOTICE TO MELBOU. r 'VISITORS.
WIMPOLE'S GEORGE HOTE L, opposite St
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
I st.
to
f
Bottles Sold in One Month.—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST.
nnmm
pioneer"
LEATHER
BELTING^
The jueaamg iseit oi Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices arid Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUOOWICT& SON, LTD.,
XIV York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. Sd.
JOSHUA’S*.
BOOMERANG BRANDY
THE LATEST TESTIMONY OF APPRECIATION.
AGAIN TO THE FRONT!
By mail from London Messrs. JOSHUA BROS, have been informed that
the Army Contracts’ Director has taken a supply of their Brandy
For tbe Us? of tb?Jnjperial Troops ii> S. Africa
i „ '
in Flasks, Half-Flasks and Bottles/
THE WORLD-RENOWNED 7
Ediswan ■ Lamp.
m
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIRE.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY.
Have no Worthless
Imitations,
THE EDiii ffiff
tP-nited Electric Li'ght
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : 16 Carrington-stre
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q'nslanrtDepofc—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane,
The Bulletin
Yoi 22.—iN'o. 1056
[Saturday, May 12, 1900.
Registered at the Genera! Rest Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larykx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachja or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tabes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lung*.
SUITED
for
OLD and ¥(XJNC,
and
In valuable to
SIKCrlftS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug . . .
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,’ In Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, G HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland-post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEis b riiAC^.
THE RED PAGE .
AUSTRALIA.
Last sea-thing dredged by sailor Time from Space,
Are you a drift Sargasso, where the West
In halcyon calm rebuilds her fatal nest?
Or Delos of a coming Sun-god’s race ?
Are you for Light, and trimmed, with oil in place,
Or but a Will o’ Wisp on marshy quest ?
Anew demesne for Mammon to infest?
Or lurks millennial Eden ’neath your face ?
The cenotaphs of species dead elsewhere
That in your limits leap and sivim and fly,
Or trail uncanny harpstrings from your trees,
Mix omens with the auguries that dare
To plant the Cross upon your forehead sky,
A virgin helpmate Ocean at your knees.
Vic.
D. FENTON.
The “Australia” Sonnet.
THE sonnet competition—subject, Australia;
rhymes a, b, b, a, a, b, b, a, c, d, e, c, d, e—
closed with some sixty entries, and there
was no difficulty in adjudging the prize of
£2 2s. to D. Fenton, Supreme Court Library,
Melbourne, whose pithy, pregnant verse has fre-
quently adorned the columns of The Bulletin.
His fine and memorable sonnet heads this page.
It urges the question, and the doubt which state
Australia’s present place in the philosophic vista ;
and it is an intellectual diamond, with a
facet flashing in every line. “The Pagan’s” ex-
cellent sonnet is in a different and more poetical
key ; but its total impression is not so strong, and
technically it is less perfect. There are two or
three sonnets which deserve some commendation;
and others, with many flaws, have sufficient in-
terest in style or motive to be worth printing. A
selection follows.
AUSTRALIA.
Within her heart no busy echoes fall
Nor happy song ; no wealth of bloom and bud
Is glorious there ; and no far-murmuring flood
Among her solemn hills is musical:
She bears not Beauty’s mien ; she is in thrall
To sorrow of too long a maidenhood ;
But widest Silence over her ddtli brood
Clad in a robe of peace majestical.
Not heaven could be in grander garments drest,
And if my soul were ashes, and it were
That all else failed to move me, yet could I
Prink in its fill of wonder on her breast
Sovereign in worship as she watches there
Beneath God’s deep infinitude of sky.
The Pagan.
Once she was left' alone amid the sea,
That murmured to her listless ears the sound
Of shadowy empires, dead ere she was found
Soft drooping to the hand that set her free ;
Birdlike her motion upward, on, would be,
But man with all debasement of a hound
Led her first footsteps to polluted ground,
With harlot and with felon to hold fee.
Grace was her gift to overcome the scourge,
Now in the lucid morn of soul retrieved
She turns with happy pride to all the globe,
Free as the ocean from her tropic verge
To where the mournful polar gulfs have weaved
A snowy circlet for her tawny robe.
Hubert Church.
The black seed, bursting, gives to life a tree
Which points its tiny sepals at the sky,
And waves its leaves, like wings, as if to fly
The sordid base of its captivity.
The tender branchlet holds no memory
Of dank recesses where its forbears lie —
No stain of earth offends the captious eye—
No rust of mould obscures its greenery.
So when in sullen soil thy seed was laid,
And watered by a thousand bloody tears,
From that foul grime there sprang in purity
A sapling, virginal as Spartan maid, •
Which, wresting substance from the falling years,
Raised in thy heart the tree of Liberty.
Julian Mitchell.
The splendid grace of Summer days inspires
A passionate delight within your breast,
And while you sleep, by gentle winds carest,
A spirit fills your heart with rich desires
For after years, when toil shall light the fires
Of Strength and Love, that all your sons may see
How faithful service makes for liberty,
And merit seeking justice never tires.
So through the languid length of drowsy days
The fruits and flowers cluster round your head
As you lie wrapt in slumbers soft and deep,
While over you the light of promise plays,
And round you Hope and Fancy faintly tread,
Foretelling triumphs when you rise from sleep.
Alastor.
She sits amid the Southern seas, her eyes
Scanning the coming of the curious years.
Faintly the tumult of the North she hears ;
The trader winds come with their alien cries ;
And yet she smiles beneath her quiet skies,
Her heart untroubled with the old-world fears—
The latest-born of Liberty, her ears
Tuned to the thrill of Time’s humanities.
And though the future front her with its fate,
Even as a dolphin on the waves she basks,
As if hers were the cosmic destiny
Of winds and waters, and she had for mate
A spirit charmed with Thought’s ethereal tasks—
Young, and yet older than Man’s memory.
R. Crawford.
From ageless sleep the island-continent
Woke into life. Fair stood the western breeze,
And seeds of empire blown from far-off seas
Sprinkled the giant shore. Years came and went.
Seven sister States, ’neath one broad banner blent,
Grew up in beauty—vestal virgins these
Tending the fire of freedom —-Pleiades
Shining, one light, in Time’s vast firmament.
Far seen in dreams, deep-laden navies throng
Shores hemmed ivith cities ; fl&tes of harvest
break
The central silence ; rippling leagues of grain
Bend to its winisp and, myriad-million strong,
A great new race, old in tradition, make
One grander Albion in a mightier main.
Macander.
Long ages hidden, fvottv Vne world she lay,
A iiieme of strange, vague, mystic-monstoaus
lore ;
Across the seas the southern breezes bore’
Faint whisperings to north lands hoar and grey;—
But when they sought she turned her face away
Displaying but the ragged cloak she wore—
No glimpse of beauty gave, but evermore
Hid her sweet face in silver southern spray.
But one came who had wandered far and wide,
Who sought release from weltering wind and
wave,
And look’d upon the beauty of her face. —
He saw her in her majesty and pride
When April deck’d her in a garment brave,
And stood amazed, spell-bound by her sweet
grace.
Uloola.
Fanned by clean sea-winds fresh of wrack and
brine,
She sleeps upon the warm Pacific’s breast;
Breathing the balsam-breath of gum and pine,
By charmed breezes lulled to Summer rest.
Proudly she fronts to south and east and west,
Queen of wide pastures, vineyard, tilth, and mine;
In lusty Liberty’s grey homespun drest,
The glittering stars of God her natal sign.
What people waits this opulent South-land—
One instinct with all mobile Southern grace,
Men swift of speech, in manner sooth and bland,
Dark women subtly fair of form and face ?
Grant also, blind Fate-God, strong brain and hand
To guard the utmost outposts of the race !
Robert Richardson.
Not like her mother, lips pursed up and staid
And hypocritical, Who kneels within
High Mammon’s temple of resplendent tin,
Or worships iron Moloch unafraid,
And names him Christ —but wilful is our maid,
And full of Southern fervour ; genial grin
And tearful woe, delirium, love and sin
Play on her face like flickering sun and shade.
I call her “ maid ”?, Her fancy roams at large
And pants for fornication where it lights.
Is it worth while, O God ! to save or damn
The giddy nurse-girl turning from her charge
To talk with khaki-coated blatherskites
While “ Federation ” gurgles in the pram. ?
B.
Others received from G.A.T. ; V.C. ; Judy
(promising); Jack-o’-Lantern; P.C.O. ; Max;
0.M.8. ; Amb. G. (.“ Her unyielding breasts, she,
fondling, retires”!); E.W.D. ; W.J. ; Chaput—
his sestet—
Upon the summit of the centuries
Thy tlirone is set. The mighty states of eid
Were wrecked full oft on shoals and rocks unseen,
But Time for thee hath beacon6d the seas.
Grip, then, the helm ! let Justice be upheld !
And puissant realms shall hail thee as their Queen.
C.P.B. ; Con; Fortuna; G. McA. ; Patinos;
Leso; Advance A. ; M.W. ; Zadkiel; J.F.—
Her gold and silver mines a boon have been
To many starting life ; while her great sheen
Lies in the tall and waving corn that’s mowed.
A.T.W. ; E.S.S.—liis sestet—
“ Australia for Australians ! ” Biot the words 1
Lest in derision be her motto brayed ;
Her birthright bartered but for gilded lace,
Her fair hands stained with England’s bloody swords,
Her chastity now but a weed decayed,
She ’mong the wanton nations takes her place.
Cosmo —her sestet —
It is the land where blue-gums meet the sky,
Where palms in graceful gladness kiss the dawn,
Where wattle-blossoms drift upon the wind,
And, falling, on the blowing grasses lie :
Ours is the land where day still breathes of mawn, —
Ours is the glory future years will find.
C.F.J. ; J.S. ; Potestas; L.H.B. ; A.J.G.; Pan;
H. Voller —as foller
SONNEY ON AUSTRALIA.
I love thee still with all thy faults, Australia,
Where may be found both English minds and manners.
True, the difference lies in the dryness of thy summers.
My attempt to do you justice can only end in failure.
Though thy seasons for the most part are a failure—
With withered grass, and creeks and rivers dry.
I would not exchange thy cloudless sky
And bush without a flower for England’s boasted weather.
My task was never meant to flash down fire upon thy foes,
But to uphold thy patriotic view
In helping thy mother in her sore hour of need—
I must mention it before it from my memory goes.
With all thy joys and sorrows and a heart so true.
You must, and do, of course all countries lead.
H. Voller.
E.W.E. ; L.ILD. ; J.G.D. ; Pay-pay-pay (“ob-
scene ” is accented on last) ; S.H.C.—
Thy produce is the first that’s always sought
In London’s market, where it can’t be beat;
For butter, rabbits, poultry, frozen meat,
AVhen known to have been from Australia brought,
Are sold for cash without the least effort.
R.
O Muse ! We are to be paid £2 2.
If vve can fourteen lines in such a way
Spin out upon the theme “ Aus-tra-li-a ”
As our great Red-Page Zeus just thinks will do.
Land of the Emu and the Kangaroo ! —
On such a theme what have we got to say
But that it had war-fever yesterday—
The plague to-day—to-morrow something new !
Dear heart! There’s twenty-four bobs’ worth of work,
Good solid stuff . . . Erato, let me now
Wipe the unusual moisture off your brow i
One would think we were at the back o’ Bourke
Instead of here on Helicon ... Ah me,
She earns all that she gets, poor Poesy !
Mitty ; Wal. C. ; G.A.; A.M.A.; M.F.K. ;
S. ; K.H. ; J.C.G. ; Cerise; Bendee; N.D.N.;
Ben Sun ; J.B:C.; R.B.
Victor Daley comments :
Many thanks to “ R.W.” and his suggestion that Robert
Buchanan may have given me the idea about Gabriel and
the Almighty and the Resurrection. It is not possible,
however. In the first place, the recollection goes back
twenty years. Buchanan may have written the passage
quoted at that time, but, if so, I never saw it. Anyhow,
the picture, as I remember it, was made in the short
metre, clean-cut, vivid, virile style of Dean Swift. Poe.
sibly Buchanan saw it also. His version is watery
—full of aqueous padding. I did believe that I
read the words in the collected works —l4 or 16
volumes—of Dean Swift in the Melbourne Library.
But I waded through them afterwards and could not find
it. Let me place the picture—it is worth it—yet more
clearly before you. The last of all the days of Man upon
Earth has passed. And the few survivors of the race have
gathered lonesomely together and set up a monument in-
scribed to “ Mankind.” All the virtues, hopes, dreams,
achievements of Mankind are enumerated on the monu-
ment. And at the end of the legend there are the letters
“ R.1.P.” And the Lord Almighty and Gabriel, who has
his trumpet under his wing, walk together over the silent
•arth. They pause before the monument. The Lord
Ali&ighty reads the inscription. Gabriel is putting his
trumpet to his lips. “ R.1.P.” says the Almighty, mus-
ingly. ‘ You can put up your trumpet, Gabriel —we’ll
take the poh.r devils at their word.” If Dean Swift did
not write thislf'fl^ ealn fc k.
One Australian Abroad.
Editor Bulletin. —I told you some time ago that
I was going around the world to accomplish cer-
tain things never attempted before for a purse,
and without a shilling, &c. Well, you washed
me luck, but said: “Judging by your letter,
your articles wall not be much good,” and to tell
the truth I don’t think they are; though I intend
to send one or two along now and then, and if you
find anything in them worth printing—well and
good; but if you don’t it’s not a matter of life or
death to either of us. So here goes.
I closed up my office in Perth, and bought about
20 yards of red and green plush, and then sat
down and made two suits of clothes out of it—
short pants green, sailor’s jacket red and green,
and cap red. 1 got inside one of the suits just
before Xmas and walked about the streets of
Perth to advertise myself. Public said : “ Who is
he ?” “ What is he ?” “ He’s mad ! ” &c. _ I got a
few thousand handbills planted and circulated
them myself. But I picked a bad night for my
lecture, for someone was going to sing “ The
Absent-Minded Beggar”—and nobody attended
my lecture. After Xmas went down to Albany to
W'ork my way to England. Interviewed the cap-
taiil of the mail-boat about middle January—in my
plush rig-out of course.
He wanted “a trimmer.” “Would I take this
on ? ” I did n’t know what a “ trimmer ” was, but
answered “Yes; ” and when the chief-engineer had
given me some old clothes, I was introduced to a
shovel, barrow and rake down in the stoke-hole.
Found fireman, trimmer and engineer to be un-
merciful dogs ; they gave me no quarter. Com-
plained to the chief-mate, and he told me to go to
hell. Food horrid, bunk lousy—most of the men
had “donetime.”
After leaving Port Said, put me in the “ slioi’e
gang ” ; had me working on deck, sometimes all
night, in wind, water and storms, with only a
singlet and pair of pants on, and I felt like
murdering someone. Ask for sympathy ?—rot.
Arrived at Tilbury Docks middle Feb., cold, wet
and miserable. Chief engineer wanted me to work
some more. Told him to go to hell; then dressed
and went ashore. Someone gave me. 2a., and I
got Cd. and my discharge, marked “ very good,”
&e., from the company ; took train up to London,
and arrived there with Is. in pocket ; knew
no one, and no one knew me. After usual trouble,
found room in Wych-st., Strand, paid Is. for bed
that night ; bought 2d. buns, cup of tea, and had
id. left.
Next morning. No breakfast ; took roll of
MSS. round to papers, and tried them all day,
without success. Came back to room ; told land-
lady would pay her for room in two or three days,
and went to bed.
Next morning. No breakfast. Interviewed
editors all over London. They were “sorry’
they “ couldn’t see their way clear,” “ the editor
regrets,” &e. Battled about till il at night ; came
back, dog-tired, with an appetite two days old ;
tapped landlady for a feed. It “ was against the
rules,” &c., but neve theless gave me a cup of tea
and two slices of buttered bread.
Next morning no breakfast —to the editors
again, and about 1 p.fti. met generous one (of Hun),
got Is. out of him ; went and had a feed. Same
day met W.A. mining man and made ss. out of
him, and so on for about two weeks; then Pear-
son’s gave me £2 2s. for an article, and now I’ve
been three weeks or so in London, and having
considerable fun all the timo. All the editors I’ve
seen kept at safe distance from me during inter-
view, no doubt thinking my 'enterprise had de-
veloped into madness. Up the Strand and down
Fleet-street the English Johnny says “What O ! ”
when “ the boy in plush goes by,” and the merry
maids of England (?) say, “0, chase me!” The
latter have taken a fancy to me ; but I warn ’em
not to make too free—’cause familiarity, you
know——
Some editors would give me a chance to boom
myself if they had space, but, while war’s
on impossible. “Ladysmith Relieved 1”
“Thank God !•”—“ Hurrah Britons never
shall—Ladysmith relieved ! —hurrah ! ” God save
the —hurrah —Rule Brit—hip—hip—hurrah I—and
every street is crowded, men, women and children
singing, shouting, waving flags ; wearing red,
white, and blue ; waving hats, sticks, arms, legs—
all because Tom A. had murdered a few old
farmers. One would think Christ had returned to
earth with the news of the downfall of Hell!
Did they think about the wounded then lying
in agony—of the dead—of the latter’s fatherless
children—of the dead men’s widows—of their
poverty and struggles in the future, or of the
money their little bit of enjoyment would cost
them? No, they did not; for, though the
average Englishman is a gentleman in man-
ners and a brave fighter, he lias not much
brains, and he never troubles to think about any-
thing until it strikes him. The Englishman learns
all the history concerning the Royal family, all
about Britain’s great battles, and all the good,
things she has done in the past ; but all things
weighing against her have no interest for him, and
should you mention them he’ll call you a fool, or
take broad views of the matter, button up his coat
and then bid you “ Good morning !” But he has
not much brains all the same, and from high to
low in every seat of life the English are just seven
degrees slower than standstill. They expect a
stranger to sacrifice his opinion to theirs, and unless
he does, God help him ! Anyone in the literary
line may succeed if he flatters John Bull in a
careful manner—d’ye see ?
Case in point:—l wrote an “ article of abuse ”
and sent it to the Times, and it was returned in
the quickest time on record, with the editor’s com-
pliments, regrets, &c. I smiled-y-couldn’t help it,
d’ye see ? But, I think good writers of Lawson’s
class would ‘ ‘ catch on ” here if they kept their
own opinions shut-up and made no attempt to
“change the order of things,” for in London
there are papersand money behind them, too ; but
(knowing that some Australian writers were
thinking of working their passage to London) I
would advise any young and foolish writers like
myself not to work their passage over to London,
not to come without a “bean,” and not to come
until the war is over, because there is no “space.
The “Robert ” of London is the best man I ve
met, for he is large and obliging, and —unlike our
Robert —he is the stranger’s only friend.
“ Where’s such-and-such a street ? ” Ask Robert,
for he knows and wiU tell you without jingling a
few coppers to remind you that he is poorly paid.
I’ve visited British M., National G., Tower of
L., and St. Paul’s, but, as the relics of dead days
have little or nothing (in my idea) to do with the
present or future, I saw nothing to surprise or in-
terest me greatly. Some of the paintings were
good, but even the best were poor shadows of
the realities which I can see any day in the
street; and, as for landscapes on canvas, why, it’s
simple madness to me, for I can only admire them
painted on the earth by Nature, and one of her
masterpieces is some kangaroos feeding on a
green hill beneath a cloud of gold.
The Queen passed through London to-day, amid
roars of “ hurrahs,” &c. The first time I had seen
her—just a little, short, stout, grandmotherly-
looking person, that’s all, and I don’t feel inte-
rested in Ah, d it! I can’t write any
more. They’re playing that infernal thing of
Kipling’s again in the street below ; shut up, you
fools ! I get my Bible all right here off G. and G.,
St. Briders-street, every Monday, and it seems
like meeting an old friend in a strange land. —
Yours truly,
PERUY M. EMERY.
Wych-street, London, 8/3/’00.
“ F.S.D.” (still, it would seem, a very young
man) comments—from Genoa, March —upon
D’Annunzio’s new story “II Fu<sco ” [Fire] —not
yet Englished:
Big placards in white and purple are flaunting the
streets of the Italian cities, inscribed with the name of
Gabriele D'Annunzio’s long-expected book, “ II Fu6co,’
price live francs. So I bought it and hurried off to my
attic, anticipating a great treat. I read on far into the
night, fascinated and yet half disgusted and disap-
pointed with the book, and the deep, sad tones of the bel-
fry of the Nunziata were pealing 3 a.m. when I finished
it. A disillusion ! yet a work full of charm, a scattered
and tangled mass of lino phrases and sensitive metaphors,
but cajoling one into expectation of a revelation of crea-
tive power which is never realised.
It is the style of “ The Virgins,” rich and voluptuous
still, but without any adequate imaginative and architec-
tural strength. Can it be called a novel at all ? A novel
with no plot, which tells no story, which contains the
names of many characters, but the revelation of only one
—which is the author's self.
A great poet “ loves " a great actress older than him-
self—it is D'Annunzio and Duse. With much experience
of mortal passion the woman (fives herself body and soul
■to the youthful genius, the “writer,” the “ soul-
awakener.” the “ supreme artist,” the “over-man.” And
liis soul grows tired of her, and demands the sacrifice of
her love to his individuality. Which happens ; for is he
not the over-man ” who can claim all from life, free
from claims of duty or pangs of conscience'os long as it
brings him -the “revoaler” and “poet”—any pleasure.
It is the immoral doctrine which Nietzsche preached.
It is not the fact that an impure world of voluptuous-
ness is here delineated and described with minutest
eloquence that makes me protest against this book : it is
the cool manner in which this attitude towards
life, this apotheosis of erotic mania, is claimed*
to be the mark of the highest type of man, the
very inmost stamp of the “ Uebermensch.” The naive
self-exaltation of this book, which is almost autobio-
graphical, is not pleasant. You feel, after reading fifty
pages, that the writer is playing the part of a prig, and
as you read on you only lose this feeling when you find
his sincerity as an artist forcing him to a candid and
cruel analysis of all his motives and desires, laying, bare a
soul which, though he may think otherwise, has little of
the her 9 about it. (I wonder if the Germans tried to find
a word for “ prig ” when they turned Nietzsche’s “ Ueber-
mensch ” into “ Uebermenschlein.”)
As D’Annunzio himself tells us, his great distinction as a
writer is to be “ magnificently sensual.” It is the sen-
sualism of love in which he takes delight, depicting and
describing and dreaming over, again and again, “ that act
which is the genesis of our species.” But it is a one-sided
sensualism, which has no room for children in it—no men-
tion or no uesire for them. He wants only the flame of
passion, and he chooses a pomegranate as his symbol—
“ II Fudco ” is first of “ Romances of the Pomegranate ”
and puts into the mouth of his mistress those mystic
words, This is my body which is given for you. The
whole world becomes to bis imagination a symbolisation of
“ Love,” and its Fire, and its Death. So it is to every
poet; but “ love ” has for others a sublimer and broader
meaning. One does not long hesitate in choosing between
the worth of (say) George Meredith’s idea of “ love ” and
Gabriele D’Annunzio’s. Meredith’s is the natural instinct,
and D’Annunzio’s the decadence of it; and a page of
“ Richard Feverel” is worth the whole of “ II Fudco,” in
spite of D’Annunzio’s conceit for his Latin blood and Latin
sense of form, and for his perception of “ all the appari-
tions of consoling Beauty.”
As the city symbolising Voluptuousness and Fire,
D’Annunzio chooses Venice, and lays his story there. He
lias wonderful descriptive passages in homage to the city
“ with the thousand zones of green water,” “ whose soul
reveals itself only in the silence of the night and still
more terribly in the time of summer.” The Venetian
palaces, their romance, their ladies and their precious
stones, their mystery, their patrician splendour, their
memory of the great Venetian artists —all this brings into
his love-theme a poetry which makes up in part for the
deficiency of plot. Night on the canals, and the sing-
ing, give glimpses of ladies “ who lean towards the music
in attitudes of abandonment, as if about to faint in the
embrace of arms unseen.” The lover’s dawn-flight from
the palace of Gradenigo after a night of lovfc, and his talk
with the gondolier, are finely told, and might be a bit
from the life of Lord Byron. But, after all is said, in
spite of its grace and poetry of images, I cannot but affirm
that as a work of imagination the book is one-sided and
ineffective, and that in its implied eulogy of an unwhole,
some ideal of pleasure it is as literature immoral. Poichfc
il poeta non potera partare se no di si; e del suo mondo.


SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
buy from us and
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
‘ JEI Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Qeorge-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPyNE
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRH(EA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—•
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1805, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlokodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
mf&t
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
ALTLI A NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, ' however
caused, ami restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Bells give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
03 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
o°
<<j>
m
r*
r Curea all EVE
Diaordera. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor:— STEPHEN GREEN,
x 2lO Lambeth Rd., London, S.E:
r Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
lor my Invaluable little pamphlet
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
“LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LIGMOLLIENE never fails to CURE ECZEMA (“ Psoriasis
Acne”). BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing; Chemist, BALLARAT, YIC.
HOMBEO PATHTITfRE ATMENTi
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL . .
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS of ENERGY,
etc. Has CURED Thousands for the BLOOD,
SKIN, NERVES, RHEUMATISM, etc.
“WORDS OF WISDOM.” This Fr?e Book about
the Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40
pages of useful information, and will be posted in
plain cover absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address: ®
The Irving Homoeopathic Co.,
Corner Hunter and Bligr Streets,
SYDNEY, N.S.W."
4fe
OLD
RNS
SUWB
FING
<s>
C.H
N
&iC
2*£
s
im
>a ,? FETORS,.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering FJJGRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY ;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Brokers . ', : ,
Consolidated Charge \
for Selling Wool /
21 per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
(cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Eat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents, f
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices: - 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stoiiks —Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to tlie Growers; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
Kangaroo, Waißaby,^—-
Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
S YOKTE Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYUNTBY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
“ New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :
COMMISSION _ I Cent.
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over (id. per lb.,
the charge will be ... ... ••• ••• ••• 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of Marsupial Skins Held. Weekly.
LAWRENCE’S PATENT TOBACCO CUTTER.
Price £6.
f* Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
’Note. These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended to tobacconists
in the" country, so as to enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Cut and Moist Tobacco.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.
n
m
fcOR
tt
COMBINES
PERFECTION Of qUftJJTJ
with aesofcuig purity
10
f\H°
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
nm
MEDICATOR
r'IATABRH is inflammation of the
'- y lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Offioe. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?* Catarrb CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
ft COMMON SENSE EAli EIiTJM”
THE
mm
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-dny for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
(The B. and N. Treatment).
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Amemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. NEUROZONE is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
271 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
n
m
Reader, why not be able to use tlie
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? Jly my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
[gratify your ambitions, and produce
I amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
I Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteriee and secrets
of tho Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and Is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the hind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
ing. A postal card will bring it. i
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-I
notize. It is a chance of a'
Ufa-time. Address—
nm
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
jt in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZENGES.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be {riven secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address —R. CORNWALL, Manager Mating Remedy Co.,
H 8 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRATAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRATAIS
FER BRATAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingthe constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET. "A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-"/* has all
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
SOI.O BY CHEMISTS All. THE WOBI.D OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have beer
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
lemedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
t o all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
n
V
m
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
iCHf C RAD E F ARM !M P tfMENT SAN D MACHINERY.


TATTERSALL’S
- I; ; [ ' 5 ‘ ‘ • " * . • ' « « ; • .....
Address: Care geo.
ADAMS, Hotoart.
Maj 24
Birthday C.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
/ 7 V \ ; '‘\ i i
Please allot mo I
" 7 .■ • ■■ ■: ;■: ; ■'.( :- ; - /
Name
Address. ■ '
«, . .' : T~
• ’ : , ■ F-
shares in above.
Birthday C. (special).
DRAWN MORNING OF THE RACE.
£O,OOO Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Ellesmere S.
June 1.
25,000 Subscribers a<t 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name
Address.
s s
Newcastle C. June 7.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
£
Name _
Address
Canterbury Midwinter H.
June 23.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTEKSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
*
*
Grand National H. Jul j 7
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name.
Address
Melbourne C.
November 6
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name
Address
Melbourne C. November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Ctao. Adams, Hobart.


BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24. Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
to d®v tes ’
p^ R ° t
. .#» t J C«T® S
att d ro \dS-
a tvA C ° V
00*8* .nitons*
PALACC
f
- 1'ji",;..1. ll'i f ‘
ias»r-
-:'
1 ,;il
ia,H
*3*sS
. • ■
MELBOURNE.
Booms and Accommodation—all prices—ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Booms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING BOOMS AND CAFE
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Manager.
USE
Spooler’s
gOOHCfrk
IROYALNAVY DRESSIRC
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
l!F AIL DESCRIPTIONS
OIRECIIONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
Thfe'Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
m
GrO TO HELL-
-IGOI-ANI) for Prelty St nips, hut
if you want real good st:u . s sendto
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN ST Ail P IMPORTER,
7i Elizafceth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
AftStraliao MOttial ProVidcpt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES,
©r on FREEHOLD and O.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
n
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£S -155.; £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
H. HIIalilER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
m
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN,
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
M r M | N <c FOOD Is of tlie highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
M ELLIN'S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MEIXIN’S FOOD AND MEDIAN'S EMULSION
MAY BE OBTAINED
OF ALE DEALERS.
to be obtained
from
COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Bydney.
Samples and Pamphlets
The
Authoress of
£6
BOOTLE’S
BABY,
99
says
“ Most
decidedly ,
use ‘KOKO,’
it
will
stop
your
hair
from
falling
off.
I happen to know because I
have tried it myself. It
nice clean preparation too
NOT STICKY or GREASY.”
Ivl vs i v? I ■w■ % ■ wi m ' -
‘KOKO
P
Eradicates Scurf and Dandrifl, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and"is the
Best Dressing for the Hair.~ Perfectly
Harmless, Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i/-, 2/6 and 4/6 sizes', of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS GO.. LTD..
16, Beyis Marks, London, England.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “ GLOVE-FITTING ”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
fs
m
T*
W,
Thom
ons
df
“ LA. NOBLESSE ”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs-W- S- Thomson & Co-, Ld-, London-
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
. . 000 r'fl N IMDIM ST. HOUSE flMl—h
CABLE address: 222 CANNON ST. HOUSE.
” London ~i~.ondon,
D &Ublish°’ as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
fr a. d\r k; j a rvi s
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
NS WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen ireet BRISBANE.
Victoria— JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE „
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
sd
OUR SPECIAL Ho. 2
£8 18/6
f
Delirered at any Wharf or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£iO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Elegy in a Conviot Graveyard.
(“DEAD ISLAND,” PORT ARTHUR.)
sdf
Tas.
J. BUFTON.
After Lo ng Tears.
sd
N.Q.
VON KOTZE.


L
Austral
icutest
IN
ES
A
The Hustralian pdouis’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
'"PHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting- all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
A ( cumulated Funds ... exceed £1,350,000 A nnual Income exceeds £230,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
IMPORTA.3XTT AISTWOUISrCEMEKrT !
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
A PROSPEROUS COMPANY »*„*_
PROSPEROUS CLIENTS.
Join Bridge $ Co’s ltd. Clients Grow Rick
Ask any SENDEE or GROWER REASON.
GOLDEN SALES!!!
The direct result of our determined efforts on your behalf.
Tor past 30 years or every year since 1870.
Wool.
Tallow.
Hides.
Sk'ms. Finance.
' JIJ
THE ENJOYMENT OF TOBACCO
LARGELY DEPENDS UPON -THE
PIPE USED. THE CELEBRATED
UMAR PIPES BRANDED
mn
m
HAKE
ARE RECSSHISED AS TEE MOST
PERFECT, BOTH AS TO
MATERIAL AMD WORKMANSHIP,
★
m
ameo
ICARETTESy
The Demand for DIXSON’S AMERICAN TOBACCOS
so increases that the sales for Sydney Factory
During 1899 were y 77 TONS GREATER than during 1898
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading* Brand in W.S. Wales.
OBTAINABLE THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE OF THE OTHER COLONIES.
CONQUEROR
THE TOBACCO—CHEW AND SMOKING.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and Lnglish brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
CHAMPION -
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
CONQUEROR -
The workmans favorite for smoking
and chewing, always the same,
never changes
BONANZA CIGARS
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.— Nb. 105 G.
SATUKDAY, MAY 12, 1000.
Prioh 6d.
sdfghdr
“ And it would bo j||
well, perhaps, to ap -I
point women to the workl/l
of inspection, as they naturallyju/
have a much more intimate ac
quaintance with the details of ' t~y
household economy and the practical problems of
// // I J t domestic cleanliness than men can be expected to
'yV / have.”— Lyne. .
</ Lady of the House : “This is merely a cupboard containing
my wardrobe. I suppose the Health Department would not be
especially interested to ” .
Inspectress : “ Oh, yes, indeed] I must inspect that, and very parti-
cularlv. Clothing is a most prolific source of infection, so I’ll trouble you
to unlock that door ! (Aside.) Ha! I shall now find out how many
dresses the cat has
There would seem to be a sort of prejudice against the
practice of carrying dead rats in bags on the tramways.
Our artist suggests that a live goose carried in the bag in-
cidentally along with the rats
would allay suspicion and pre-
vent panic, which of itself has '
been known to bring on an
attack of plague.
Mb. Oliver : “ But I ought
to mention that it is a
Nation we were thinking
of starting, not a graveyard.”
“ Where ami!" asked the invalid feebly opening his eyes and
staring in a dazed fashion about him. “ You’re in a hospi'.al, my
poor man,” said the nurse in that hammered beef-steak tone pecu-
liar to her calling. “ But don’t you worry ; you’ll soon be out
again.” “ Oh, shall I?” said the patient with lively recollections of
Hospital Saturday. “ This is a hospital, hey 1 Well, here goes for
my money’s worth.” And he closed his eyes in delicious langor
and lay unconscious for another six weeks.
PROPERTIES NOT CONNECTED
WITH SEWERS.
“ The Attorney - General lately
' asked the Mayors of the various
municipalities in the city and suburbs
to furnish him with lists of proper-
ties which were not connected with
the sewers. Mr. Wise states that if
he finds that the owners are to blame
he will direct the work to,be at once
carried out, and if this order is not ■jy ,v ia\u— » -> n -i>
complied with without delay lie will proceed against the owners by ex-otlicio
information.”
1 Judge : “You are charged with posing as a Christian in high-standing
and with keeping premises unfit for human habitation. How do you plead?”
Fatman : “ For mercy under the First Offender’s Act—and I won’t boa
Christian any more 1”
Lyne (loquitur): “If I don’t kill it at once, :t will fdl ti> pieces.”
NOT HAVING ANY PLAGUE.
“ i'AUli ” : “ Compliments of the Transvaal, ‘Joe,’ and I must protect against
any more troops from Sydney at present ! ”
CARTOONISTS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the A ustralians. ’’
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... ' £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you mat/ pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this payer are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers..
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that ive
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lilach and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid , for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London. E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus: Street
<b Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 81S Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 88 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa. ■
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with Bs. Bd. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of li/d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease of in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, MAY 12, 1900.
The Privy Council Appeal.
As The Bulletin goes to press the position
of the Commonwealth Bill is that “ Mr.
Chamberlain will announce on Bth inst.
with what alterations and to what extent
the British Govt, will recommend the Bill
to the Imperial Parliament.’' There should
at least be satisfaction that “ Mr. Chamber-
lain ” is at last to yield place to a worthier
authority. Who is Mr. Chamberlain that
he should negotiate with Australia as if
he were the British Govt, or Parlia-
ment in his own person 1 And the
issue of the debate which has been carried
on is forecast to be that the Bill will be
passed practically intact, with an under-
standing that this country will acknowledge
the sway of an Imperial Court designed to
extend and improve the Judicial Committee
of the Privy Council. That, if it so fallout,
will be as good an issue as any. The only
thing essential to Australia is that the Bill
be passed intact, as the utterance of the
popular majority in five provinces—with
which not even the Imperial Parliament
(licensed to accept or reject)! has the right to
meddle—still less the various bankers and
barristers and brokers who have locally been
playing the part of the Tooley-street tailors.
• * * •
The “We, the People of Australia,” of
these property- and - privilege - representing
cliques is made even more ludicrous by the
fact that some of them have either
misunderstood the Bill or have de-
liberately misconstrued it to anti-Federal
ends. The Bill does not, as has been com-
monly bruited, “abolish the right of appeal
to the Privy Council.” So far as the Bill
goes, and in respect of causes in which an
appeal may now lie, the right of appeal to
the Queen in Council is especially reserved,
and is as signal an anomaly as ever it was.
But the Federal Parliament , if it choose,
may limit the right of appeal where
Imperial questions are not concerned. And,
if the Commonwealth of Australia is to be
really self-governing, there can be reserved
to the Federal Parliament not one atom of
power less. Where is the propriety of
giving the Federal Parliament power to
make domestic laws, if the interpretation
of those laws be not left to the Federal
Court 1 Has Australia, then, the skill
and the competence to make her own laws,
without the skill and the competence to
decide their meaning ? Does not the
greater right contain the lesser ? our-
selves are to create a code of laws for our
governance, shall not we ourselves decide
what is the meaning and application of the
code of laws which we ourselves have made ?
The case of those who say that Australia
shall have complete domestic self-control,
yet who cry out that Australia’s control
should be subjected to the explana-
tion and interference of a British
tribunal, has no logical footing. 'That is the
cry of the Imperialistic fetish. It is the cry
of the British money-lend»r. It is the cry
of the Australian Conservative. It is the cry
of the men who hate, while accepting,
democratic rule—the cry of men who distrust
t he people.
* * » •
And if, in the only point upon which
the Commonwealth Bill as a statute
prevents appeal to the Queen in Council
(not “abolishes” since you cannot
abolish what does not yet exist), the
Imperial Parliament should, after all, en-
deavor to alter the Bill in the interests of
Imperialism,” then maybe that alteration
will some day be found to have laid an axe
to the root of Imperialism. The only point
on which appeal is prevented is “ any matter
involving the interpretation of this Constitu-
tion, or of the Constitution of a State ”
Imperial interests not being involved.
Well, Australia is a young country, and
we are building far into the future,
upon a Constitution which cannot easily be
altered. There may come a time in the
history of Australia? as there has in the
history of the United States, when the letter
of the law will no longer contain the spirit
and aspirations of the people, and yet the
speedy alteration of the law may be impos-
sible. The Federal Court, composed of
citizens of Australia, will —if it be worthy of
such an occasion-- look to the end, with a full
knowledge of the means, and temper the law
to the circumstances And it is quite con-
ceivable, and even likely, that a foreign
tribunal, without a full knowledge of the
conditions, may look strictly to the letter of
the law, and probably foment discontent ;
possibly pave the way for a revolution. The
Imperialists are anxious to “ tighten the
bonds.” Let them beware lest one day they
be found to have clenched them so fast in
the dead hand of a superseded Constitution
that they snap with'the tension—and for
ever.
That Appeal to Caesar—Such as It Is.
“Danton” to The Bulletin:—
Now that the case for the mutilation of the Common-
wealth Bill against the twice-recorded express will of the
people of Australia is being supported with arguments
about the desirableness of uniformity in the final inter-
pretation of all British laws and about the soul-satisfying
perfection of Privy Council decisions, it were well to
remember two or three things about the alleged uniform-
ity and the alleged perfection. In the first place the
Privy Council. System does not bring about and does not
pretend to bring about uniformity of decisions throughout
the alleged Empire. The decision of the P.O, is only
binding upon the particular colonial court from which the
appeal comes. For instance, the ludicrouslv-feeble and
cruelly unjust decision of that body in the Vic. Coultas
railway-gate case has been pronounced by the leading
text-book writer oh the law of negligence to be binding
upon the Supreme Court of Victoria alone, and has been
scoffed at by the Supreme Court of Ireland and disre-
garded by the English Court of Appeal. In fact, the
following possibility is quite on the cards, namely, that
when the Federal Court is in full working order, an appeal
from its decision on a case like the Coultas one will be
decided in favor of the Railway Department, if the case is
originally heard in the Victorian State of the Federation,
and against the Department if in any of the other States
of the sqme Federation.
Which leads td another point. The decisions of the
Privy Council are not only not binding upon colonial
courts other than the one under review, not only are they
not binding on the English, Irish or Scottish courts, but
they are not even-binding on the P.C. itself. It has been
held that the P.C. is not bound to follow its own de-
cisions. That is to say, boiled down and refined from all
subtleties the Privy Council is not a final court at all, and
it has power to legislate. How’s that for uniformity?
Why, if one were called upon to devise a scheme by which
un-uniformity in the interpretation of law could be at-
tained, one could not do better than hand in the Privy
Council constitution, a constitution which makes its de-
cisions binding on only the colony affected, and alterable
at the Council’s own whim even as to them.
The Privy Council is, moreover, not, strictly-speaking,
a court at all. It is simply an advising board to the
Sovereign. It is, in fact, the remains left of the old court
of Star Chamber, kicked into oblivion as far as England
was concerned by the Long Parliament, but retained,
probably by an oversight, as good enough for the
“colonies and plantations.” It doesn’t give judgments
like other courts, it records opinions. In other courts,
including the House of Lords, each judge can, and fre-
quently does, give his own reasons for his judgment, and
if he dissents, says so, and says why; But a Privy Council
opinion is always read by one judge, and as no dissent is
allowed to appear in it, its value and weight is rarely
capable of being properly assessed. So it frequently
happens that, as the names of all judges are noted, the
weight of a great name is given to some silly statement of
law against which he had unavailingly contended in the
secret sittings of the Council, including probably a
majority of pensioned-off and used-up Indian judges.
The glaring defects of the Privy Council system, the
poor quality of its law as indicated by cases such as the
Coultas case above alluded to, and the open contempt
expressed for its decisions by both laymen and lawyers,
led some years ago to an attempt at reform. If this had
been allowed to have worked out naturally, the personnel
of the Privy Council would have become in time the same
as that of the House of Lords, and the best features of
Haldane’s Imperial Court would have come into being.
But the temptation to bribe colonial magnates was too
strong for the Colonial Office authorities, and the makings
of a powerful final Court of Appeal equivalent to the
House of Lords vvere spoilt by the lowering of its standard
by the introduction of any chance judges to whom the
combined influences of political vicissitudes in the colonies
and the favor of the Colonial Office might offer the job.
Calculate, for instance, the weight of a “unanimous”
Privy Council “opinion” arrived at by three Maddens
and a Way, with a dissenting Lord Macnaghten, whose
dissent was suppressed!
Apart altogether from the question whether Australian
appeals on purejy Australian matters (for outside matters
are provided for in the Bill) should, if responsible Govern-
ment is more than a flatulent phrase, be tnk n away from
Australia, the appeal to the Privy Council stands con-
demned, for the Privy Council is~a wobbly, uncertain,
advisory board, calculated to bring about, in the
long run, a separate set of legal principles for each
province of the “ Empire,” differing from those of
the House of Lords and alterable at the whim of a
kaleidoscopically varying, both in quantity and quality,
personnel. As to the practical utility of the far-distant
P.C. as an average man’s court, one' has only to look
down the admirably compiled and complete list of
Australian cases in Horwitz’s edition of the Vic-
torian Statutes to see what Rind of people throng
the ante - chamber of O.esar. Bankers, squatters,
ghoulish companies, and gilded murderers, sitting
cheek by jowl, form the vast majority, the averag*e
man being represented by a few unfortunates who,
believing that the appeal to C*sar was more than a
phrase, sought vainly to have similar rights of appeal,
when their liberty was endangered, as they would have
had if only their property was at stake, and there was
plenty of it. Those fighting for C.ssar’s circuit court in
Australia should never forget that only by its establish-
ment, as in the Federal Bill, can the minimum appeal-
hurdle of £5OO be reduced to the £5O or less of the ordinary
litigant. J
N.S.W. Early-Closing Act.
Editor Bulletin,— The recent Supreme Court
decision emphasises one aspect of N.S.W. Early-
Closing Act which you may possibly have over-
looked. There was a conflict between a druggist
and the administrators of the Act as to whether
his shop should be “closed” or “closed for the
purposes of trade.” In the one case he would be
compelled, after the hours fixed by the Act, to
shut his front door absolutely —and as a druggist’s
shop, from the nature of his business, is u >ually
also his dwelling-house, that meant a considerable
restriction on his lioerty—and possibly, since
Sydney shops are none too well ventilated, an
attack on his health and his family’s health. But
if he merely dosed against trade, he could open
doors and shop as he pleased, so long as he sold
nothing. The Supreme Court decided that the
Act meant the latter, and the druggist triumphed.
* * » »
The Court was guided by the letter of the law,
but incidentally the ease showed how, in a pro-
fessedly free community, a statute may oppress a
citizen’s liberty— not to do as he pleases, but to do
as lie pleases in all matters which do not conflict
with the well-being of the majority. In spite of
some undoubted benefit accruing from its applica-
tion, I urge that the method of N.S.W. Early-
Closing Act is wrong—is even, as some of those
whose businesses it has ruined declare, “iniquitous.”
In endeavoring to heal one evil, it creates evils
which seem to me greater than all it has cured.
Admit all the pains and penalties which last year’s
shop-assistant suffered from greedy and grudging
masters, exacting the uttermost pound of weary
flesh that the bond to pay the lowest wages could
be strained to obtain. Admit—what is doubtful
that the lasting good of the whole community
can be attained by statute-relief extended to a sec-
tion unable to secure it by their own efforts.
But it is in the highest degree unjust that a man’s
right to live a lawful life as he pleases—to do law-
ful work at any hour of the day or night which
suits him —should be taken away for the benefit of
anybody else whomsoever. Surely a cardinal
principle of government is that no man’s liberty
should be interfered with unjustly or unneces-
sarily. Then why injure or ruin the numerous
tribe of small shopkeepers who do their own work
and employ none but members of their own
families ? If that is unnecessary in the interests
of the whole community, it is shamefully unjust
to the individuals who suffer.
* * * *
And it is unnecessary. The closing of the small
shops, where a man works by himself, is the
statute’s sop to the owners of the large shops,
where a man employs others to work for him. It
is the means of preventing their influential out-
cry against the Act—their moneyed opposition ;
and the poor devil who sells stationery or candles
in a £4O a-year house in the suburbs is sacrificed
to them. Not to the Rights of Labor, or the Good
of the Majority, or any other high-sounding shib-
boleth ; the Little Man is sacrificed to the Big
Man, the Thin Man to the Eat —and just because
he is Little and Thin, and the other fellow is Big
and Fat. Why should a people’s Parliament do
this, and declare it is necessary for the employes’
sake, when there is a staring compromise open—a
compromise between the slavery of the assistant
and the liberty of the small shopkeeper ? It was
never necessary, in the interests of the community,
to close any little man’s shop, or to ruin any little
man’s little business. It was never necessary to
restrict any man’s freedom, in so far as it con-
cerned, himself only. What was wanted was a
measure to restrict a man’s freedom to enslave
others. Let a man slave for himself as long as
he pleases—it is his right ; and I, for one,
in this nation of tired people, wish more
power to the industrious man’s elbow.
Stop the big employer from grinding down his
assistants—enact that no man shall employ another
beyond defined hours; and let the small man
employ himself twenty-four hours a day if he
chooses. Depend upon it, he will not do it longer
than it pays him—pays him in all ways, not the
money way alone. If his wife or his son serves in
the shop, let them serve—they are partners in the
he is working for his wife and children
as well as for himself. But he must not keep a
wages-hand on the premises. And—let us be
absolutely just—if the big employer fears the
rivalry, let the big employer work on precisely
the same terms., Let Colonel Lassetter send
away his employees at 6 p.m., and come down and
sell saucepans all night if he wishes. Let Sam
Hordern bring down his whole family to act as
universal providers—as far as his recent marriage-
relative, John See, if he likes —on condition that
every wages-man goes off the premises at dusk.
That is the compromise which N.S.W. Parliament
and the Labor-party rejected—in the interests,
not of the shop-assistants, but of the Big, Fat
Shopkeeper.
* • • *
And moreover, N.S.W. Early-Closing Act, as a
whole, is not only unjust and unnecessary, it is
also flagrantly inexpedient in the general interest.
For what has it done ? It has struck a damaging
blow at individual enterprise, at individual in-
dustry, at individual foresight, in order to create
a larger class of wages-men, living all their life
long under the thraldom of a boss. Go into any
of the Sydney suburbs, and hear the small shop-
keepers’ lamentations. These men were doing
good work, they were acting as good citizens, they
were rearing, each for himself, the foundation of
independence. Each, in his own way, and to the
limits of his capacity, planned and struggled,
exercised sagacity and foresight, forged out of the
ore of his nature the qualities of s'eif-relian ce and self-
control which lie at t ie root of both private and
public virtue—qualities which the mere assistant
to a master is never called upon to exercise. I
desire, as an Australian, to see as many men as
possible working for their own hands, and eating
all the fruit of their own labors ; I desire, as
far as modem conditions will allow, to see every
man a master and none an assistant. Open a
career to talents—even if they are only talents for
shop-keeping! Train your shop-keepers to rely
on their own mettle, and stand on their own in-
dividual merit, instead of crawling to a boss or
smirking to a shop-walker. Don't crush out small
competences to make big fortunes. Shoe the
horse, and shoe the mare, but let the little colt go
as bare as possible of legislative harness. And
depend upon it, the independent man, however
scanty and precarious his independence, will make
the best citizen for the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia.—Yours, &c., Brigham Brown.
[Question is—would not the fact of giving to small shop-
keepers, who personally and per aid of their own families
did all their own business, greatly prejudice the vast body
of employes, to whom early-closing is an unspeakable
boon, by bringing about a reduction of the wages paid to
the servants of big establishments? Again, the early-
closing system protects one small-shopkeeper against the
rapacity or excessive industry of the other small-shou-
keeper.—Ed. B.].
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Government by Junto.
It looks as if, so far as the provincial government
of Australia is concerned, we are approaching an
era of government by junto. Indeed, we have
already reached it. With a mass of indolent or
uninterested electors, and a subservient majority
in a Parliament whose members mostly seek their
own ends, Queensland is ruled nowadays for six
or eight months of the year by'a Cabinet which
does precisely as it pleases, and exercises all the
functions of Parliament without calling Parlia-
ment together. Thus it is possible for two Q.
Ministers to give their stripling sons—mere
schoolboys—officers’ comm ssions in a Transvaal
contingent (only reducing them to the ranks at
the last moment because the* odour of the job
became too evil for the nostrils of even Govt, sup-
porters). Thus it is possible for Premier Pm id*
to endeavour to induce the Premiers’ con-
ference—in that connection a conference of
nobodies—to override the Commonwealth Bill
affirmed by popular majorities. Thus it is
possible for Q. Federal-delegate Dickson to
carry opposition to the Bill still further—to run
counter to his co-delegates in London—and to tell
Britain, with unsurpassable impudence, that
Queensland is agreeable to an alteration of the
Bill in the matter of Privy Council appeal. Dick-
son, forsooth ! What status has the man Dickson
to speak for Queensland ? As far as the Common-
wealth Bill is concerned Dickson is a cipher,
Philp is a cipher ; the only thing valid is the Q.
voters’ referendum. But Puna* and Dickson
know that their own temporary and personal ends
can be served by their claim to speak for Queens-
land in this matter ; and they know that, by the
time Q. Parliament meets—“ in July or August,”
after a recess of seven or eight months of the work-
ing year—their claim will be so far forgotten that
it will be impossible, in the public interest, to
found an effective charge upon it. In Westralia
the Forrest Govt, does similar things, in a simi-
lar high-handed way, usurping the constitutional
authority of Parliament. And now this system of
government by cabal, government by junto, is being
adopted in N.S. Wales. The Lyne Govt, is earn-
ing praise from its supporters by the “masterful”
way in which it deals with the plague in Sydney,
thousands of people have been yuarantined
and lodged and fed ; large areas of the city
have been cleansed ; disinfectants have been
supplied free to householders; and medical and
nursing staffs paid—all “regardless of expense.”
But for all this the country pays —not the negli-
gent householder or the owner of filthy
properties. Part of the cost comes out of
the pocket of the taxpayer at Bourke or
Wagga, whose representatives will be asked to
vote the expenditure after it is incurred, when it
is too late to protest. Admit that there is no need
of protest—that the plague is a national calamity,
and should be fought as such—should not the
country taxpayers’ representatives have had some
voice in discussing the incidence of expenditure ?
Is not the bitter cry of Balmain Council for more
free disinfectants a fair subject of legislative
debate? Why. should not Balmain buy its own
disinfectants—instead of getting them partly at
the expense of Bathurst, and Orange, and Ne’ver-
tire? As The Bulletin has pointed is
too much Sydney in N.S.-Wales, and too much
Sydney influence upon the actions of N.S.W.
Govt. And, still behind the back of Parliament,
the Lyne Govt, is going even further, and com-
mitting the whole province to the expense of
Sydney wharfage resumptions—which may eo<t
five millions or may cost ten —the Lyne Govt,
itself does not know how much they will cost.
Why should N.S. Wales be committed to expend
such a vast sum of money at the mere nod of
Premier Lyne ? Why is not Parliament convoked
before the scheme is settled, instead of after?
Where is Junto Government going to stop?
“ Industrial Blackmail.”
Years ago, among the industrial classes, tliere
existed a state of affairs to abolish which was
passed the celebrated “ Truck Act.” And to day
some such other measure is urgently needed to
If we Love Not Freedom Wholly.
If I love not Freedom duly when her cause is
beaten low,
Can I ever love her truly if I do not love her so ?
If I joy because my brother in his passing fury fell,
Reft the birthright of another—is it seemly, is it
well?
Can I bend at Freedom’s altar and be deaf to
Freedom’s call ?
If I love not Freedom wholly, then I love her not
at all!
If as goddess dear I hail her in this laughing land
of mine,
Shall my duteous welcome fail her in the land
across the brine ?
If mine adoration mounteth to her temple all
divine
Shall I grieve because she counteth other kneelers
at her shrine ?
Can I shout in vulgar joyaunce when her fighting
children fall ?
If I love not Freedom wholly—can I love her
then at all ?
If I greet her, Queen and Mother, if I bow me at
her name,
Can I smite to earth my brother, should he bend
and do the same ?
If I stand, a sturdy yeoman, in despite of ev’ry
knave,
Can I joy to bind a foeman in the fetters of a
slave ?
If I truly hate the despot can I ever hold a
thrali ?
If I love not Freedom wholly—o, I love her not
at all !
Brisbane.
P. LUPTIC.


deal with what is nothing short of sheer mdtw*
trial blackmail. This particular abuse has been
specially rampant during the recent Patriotic-cum-
Jingo-cum-Self-Advertisement upheaval. Heads
of Govt, departments, directors of public com-
panies, contractors, bosses, foremen even
spittle-licking and favor-carrying understrappers
became a rapacious gang—not of straight-out lite-
risking highwaymen, but of underhand black-
mailers, whose cry has been —not frankly, x our
money or your life!” —but, “Your money or prac-
tically—your job!—which is your living, an
therefore—again practically—your life ! The em-
ployes of Harde, Harte & Co., of BooDLERBros.,
of Sweatman & Son— so much respectively. And
this is the way of it. Mr. SkinnEM bwEATMAN
suggests that Mr. Paycheck should open a list tor
contributions from the firm’s employes towards the
Sock and Bandage Fund. Mr. Paycheck takes
the hint as an order, and accordingly, on pay-day
—“ Ah, I have a little list here, Mr. Brown, in aid
of the —&c. “ Mr. Sweatman, senior, you will
observe, has kindly headed it with a fiver. Now,
what may I put you down for ?” Poor Brown
knows what he has practically -got to do; and,
with inward objurgations, planks down £l. And
so on,' down to the office-boy’s willing or un-
unwilling shilling. And all this without
the poor compensation of having the in-
dividual names appear. But, no 1 merely
the “employes of” the people who thus
get somehow a kind of spurious credit for the total,
and a big advertisement into the bargain. Not so
with the Hospital Saturday Fund. There you
have collection by ballot. You slip your 3d. or
your half-sov. into the box, and no one is the
wiser. In fact it is highly desirable to enact triad;
all (voluntary) collections should be by ballot, and
to make legally punishable any such virtually-
compulsory collections as have been referred to.
The Truck Act prohibits any master from com-
pelling his servants to traffic with him, and
establishes the principle that stoppage of wages
for goods received is no payment, but in both
cases the servant receives something in return for
the portion of his earnings deducted, whereas in
the other case he is an absolute loser, with no
alternative save accepting the chance of dismissal
later on—if not directly—over the matter in
hand. The practice, in a word, is ethically on a
level with any other form of extortion, and should,
without delay, be made legally so.
♦
The Mock Amazon.
Melbourne’s jingo press made an ass of itself last
week by affecting a genial smile at a certain Mrs.
Jarimne’b bid for notoriety. This lamentable
female, who had probably brooded over the Mrs.
Fraser case until she felt she must “get into
print ” or explode, appears to have dusted the
coat of the Victorian P.M.G. with a riding whip
by way of expressing her “true British” desire to
die for the Queen if necessary. Mrs. Jardxne’s
silly little attack on P.M.G. Watt was due, she
said, to the fact that she had been reading an Age
article which cast doubts on his ‘ ‘ loyalty ” as
regards a telegraph operator who had joined the
Bushmen’s Contingent. All the same the excited
exponent of Australian-born Britishness didn't
confine her animosity to Watt. She would fiave
liked, it seems, to smite the Vic. Ministry all
round for the sake of the dear, brave Contingent,
inasmuch as those hired adventurers had been put
to some needless discomfort through official
bungling. Unfortunately Mrs. J. didn’t get a
chance to hit the main body of the Cabinet with
her advertising medium, or she might have been
taken away on a charge of harmless crankiness and
discharged with a caution. Seeing that the rabid
matron got nothing but scorn at Trea-
sury Buildings, the obvious duty of the
“great journals” was to punish her with
a severe silence, instead of which they pub-
lished full details (received from herself) of the
exploit. Also, the miserable ’Erald interviewed
her, and printed portraits, including a picture of
the whip, and told its readers that a City Coun-
cillor had left his card, with a note of admiration,
at the Jardine residence. Short of inviting every
vain-glorious, war-fevered female in the city to
vent her fury against the M‘Lean Ministry, the
“great journals” did all they well could to
encourage imitations of Mrs. J’s. folly. Under
the circumstances The Bulletin feels almost
tempted to tell the young and attractive lady
what kind of a heroine she really is who makes a
show of “thrashing” chivalrous men from behind
the cover of her sacred clouts. A Mrs. Jaroine’s
“ pluck,” so-called, is inspired by simple faith in
the gallantry of the male person she seeks to
degrade. She acts on the assumption that she
runs no risk of being treated like a man for her
puerile performance of a man’s part. Compared
with the courageous Boer-woman who takes her
Eatriotic place and patriotic risks beside her hus-
and in the cold, damp trench, the hysterical
female whipper-snapper is indeed a poor sample
■of modern civilisation. So there now !
♦
Another Land Grant Railway.
The absolute necessity for doing something, or
anything, or almost everything with the Midland
Railway Co. is beginning to weigh on the Wes-
tralian legislators. The Midland Co. is one of the
many English land-grant railway syndicates which
have, every one of them, been a curse and a
disaster to these provinces. Its railway is 277
miles long. It cost about £3OOO per mile—equal
to £997,200. The co. which built it received a
bonus of 12,000 acres of land for every mile of line
—3,324,000 acres in all. The land was situated
along the line of railway, so the company was to
build its own line to enhance the value of
its own ground—practically all the addi-
tional land values created by the company’s
line were annexed by the company. If the land
when thus opened up was worth only 6s. per
acre the company was getting its railway for
nothing. Even on these terms the co. broke
down, as they almost all do. The shareholders
wouldn’t put their own money into their own
speculation, and in the end the Government ad-
vanced most of the cash on the security of its own
land. The line was finished with the Govern-
ment’s money, and then trouble began. The
W. A. Ministry had all along taken it for granted
that the co. would let or sell its land, and that a
great agricultural population would grow up along
the line and make so many more taxpayers to en-
rich the country. The co. does neither. It says
that it can’t get a high-enough price for its land
because State lands are sold or leased so cheaply,
and it desires that the State shall stop selling its
own land so that intending settlers will be com-
pelled to buy the Midland Co.’s land at a high
figure. It isn’t exorbitant, but it wants to get
enough to pay for its railway two or three
times over. A graduated land - tax, or
almost any kind of land-tax, would probably make
the co. sell, but the Government of Boer John
hasn’t the courage to impose one. Last year it so
far girded itself up as to enact that, in the case of
large estates where nothing was done by way of
improvement, a very small tax would begin to
operate after a certain number of years, and con-
tinue operating until certain improvements were
effected. But the Government was so badly scared
of its Midland incubus that it specially exempted
that corporation and the Hampton Plains Co. from
the operation of the law. So instead of opening
up the country as was fondly imagined, the Mid-
land Railway of W. A. blocks settlement over some
5000 square miles, which would be open it the
railway wasn’t there. Some very large Con-
don financiers are connected with it Westralia
was proud of getting these great men to
build a railway for it —and they hint, not
too obscurely, that if their land is taxed, or
if anything is done to compel "hem to sell, or
if their vested right to block the progress of
Westralia is interfered with in any way, they will
wreck future Westralian loans to the best of their
ability. And the W. A. Government hasn’t the
courage to reply that if the co. doesn t reform it
will put on such a graduated land-tax as will
wreck the Midland syndicate to a dead ceitainty.
A country that lives on borrowing can’t strike
attitudes like that, unless it has a stronger man
than Oom John at the helm. Westralia will
probably have to buy back the land and the rail-
way —which line was mostly built with the Gov-
ernment’s own money —at a great price. Most
land-grant railway deals end like that. It is only
5h years since the Midland line was opened. I he
Great Southern railway lasted seven years as a
private enterprise ; the Launceston and Delorame
railway (Tasmania) lasted one year; the Tas-
manian Main line 14 years. On an average it is
just about two years from the date when a private
railway opens before the people despairingly
implore the Government to buy it up at almost
any cost.
In the Barsch criminal assault case tried at Goul-
burn, Justice Stephen advisedly commented on
the N.S.W. Public Instruction Department’s
Btioe of sending single girls to small outback
schools. The practice alluded to can be
viewed financially and morally Morally, it is de-
batable whether it is worse to send a single man
into the bush to teach a mixed school or to send a
single woman there. More cases in which male
teachers have been convicted of interfering with
female pupils in bush schools are citable than of
female teachers who have been interfered with by
persons on their way to and from school. In fact,
Judge Backhouse said, not long ago, during the
trial of a case of assault, that single men should
not be sent into the bush in sole charge of mixed
schools. It is the financial aspect of the business,
however, that primarily affects the practice of the
Instruction Department. A single woman is
procurable at £2O or £3O and in some cases £lO a
year less than is a single male teacher. These
schools are so small that the employment of a
married couple is out of the question. Generally
the schools are so situated that the teacher can bo
accommodated near the premises. The Depart-
ment, therefore, following general commercial
principles, sends women. Women teach a small
mixed sohool as well as men, and when a saving
oan be made why not, says the Department, make
it? Here, on this financial aspect of the question,
is the place for the public to intervene. If women
can teach a small school as well as men can, then
the public should insist that they shall bo paid as
liberally. If paid as liberally, women will be able
to select their residences with better discrimina-
tion.
The pungent smell surrounding the doings of
Victorian police and detectives for quite a while
past was further intensified by the verdict of the
jury in the “ Tramway outrage” case. The Crown
case rested entirely on an alleged “confession,”
signed by the two prisoners, that they had placed
the obstruction in the train-slot. The accused,
however, got into the box and swore that the con-
fession produced was not the one they had signed
(thereby indirectly charging the detectives con-
cerned with forgery and conspiracy), and further,
that they had signed a confession by virtue of a
a promise that certain other charges would not be
proceeded with. The point of this statement lay
m the fact that there was a reward of £lOO for the
conviction of the offender, and they swore that
the detectives said, as an inducement to tlyj sign-
ing, “You don’t object to us getting the £lOO ;
we may as well get it as let it go begging.” The
prisoners also swore that a document, guarantee-
ing them against further proceedings, was taken
from them in the watch house. Judge Holroyd, .
however, very reasonably questioned whether
such smart men as the ’tecs in question would
have been fools enough to give the accused such
an incriminatory document. The whole case
hinged on the credibility respectively of the three
detectives and the two accused, and the
jury promptly expressed its opinion on the point
by acquitting the latter with a rider that “ the
practice of allowing the police to participate in
rewards is injurious and prejudicial to justice, and
should be abolished.” Which, as usual, will go
for nothing; because the Crown is too well accus-
tomed to insinuations of perjury, forgery and
conspiracy on the part of its employes and wit-
nesses. With regard to the jury’s rider Chief
Commissioner Chomley has remarked that the
kudos of obtaining a conviction is sufficient incen-
tive, but considering that the Melbourne detective
is mostly assisted by, if not the associate of,
phizgigs, bludgers and spielers, any kudos that
can possibly be obtained by any number of con-
victions is a negligible quantity.
+
The method of getting to the Privy Council under
existing N.S.W. law is far from satisfactory, as
the case. Howell v. Neeld, heard last week before
the Full Court, evidences. Miss Howell was
awarded £7OO by a j ury as damages for breach of
promise to marry. Defendant Neeld applied to
the Full Court (Darley, C.J., and Justices Owen
and Cohijn) for a new trial. The Court unanim-
ously rejected the application. In a day or two
after, however, Neeld, who presumably has plenty
of money, applied to the same Court for leave to
appeal to the Privy Council, and leave was
granted. It thus results that a case which
the Full Court would not allow to be re-
heard in N.S.W. it sanctions to be reheard
in England. The Court could not of
course help itself, for where the sum at issue is
over £5OO the litigant can enforce an appeal to
the P.C. Had the jury-verdict in this particular
case been for £499, Miss Howell would, it is safe
to infer from the Full Court’s rejection of the
application for a new trial in N.S.W., have
obtained that amount, for then the Full Court
could have effectually prevented Neeld from
appealing to the P.C. " Even if the P.C. were to
stand, this portion of N.S.W. law method would
need reform. It is anomalous and against natural
justice. Again, plaintiff or defendant dissatisfied
with the verdict of N.S.W. Chief Judge in Equity
may appeal direct to the P.C., but in other courts
must as a first step obtain the leave of the Full
Court. More anomaly.
The Jingoes really ought to take their dear
brother, Fitchett, by his third waistcoat-button
and expostulate. In the latest of his “What an
Australian sees in England ” series he' tells what
is “The Secret of the'Empire.” It isn’t the
“cash nexus,” and it isn’t religion, and it isn’t
the language, and it isn’t Shakespeare, and it
isn’t even the Queen. The Briton in every colony
is “left to manage his own affairs, to make his
own laws, and devise his own taxes. The mother-
land asks nothing of him but what he chooses out
of pure affection to give.” That is why he is so
loyal. Plainly, he is so loyal because he doesn’t
have to suffer anything on account of it. He is
loyal because he can make what laws he pleases,
and manage his affairs as he pleases. Presumably
when the Empire tells him he can’t do anything
of the sort he will not be loyal any more. In view
of Chamberlain’s demands, this is a pretty serious
thing for a Jingo to say. Yet it is probably true.
The American colonists were loyal until the
Empire thought it ought to bear its share of the
cost of' war (the colonists, by the way, had just
been sending some contingents to fight for the
Empire in Canada); but they kicked against the
paper-tax. When that was removed they were
quite loyal again—until some other tax fell on their
toes ; and when that was not removed they kicked
themselves free. A loyalty which replies cheer-
fully to demands made upon it is something worth
owning ; but a loyalty which breaks down at the
first demand —which is, in fact, based on the belief
that no demand ever will be made —is a poor sort
of a possession. Said .Cobden, who is a
considerable authority still among the people
who pride themselves most upon their
loyalty—“ Loyalty is an ironical term to apply
to people who neither pay our taxes
nor obey our laws . . . who would repudiate our
right to the sovereignty over an acre of their ter-
ritory, and who claim the right of imposing their
own customs-duties, even to the exclusion of our
manufactures.” If that is so (and it is so, if Mr.
Fitchett is right, and The Bulletin believes he
is), then practically all Australian Jingo-loyalty
to the Empire is “ironical.”
The selection of officers for the big Bushmen
Contingent is a scandal strong enough to upset the
Ministries of at least tioo Australian provinces if
honestly tackled by the Opposition. Altogether
Australia cuts a contemptible figure beside Maori-
land in the matter of military politics. The
Maorilandors are said to be well officered. At
any rate, the men in command were chosen with
due Consideration for the safety of the men who
must be more or less under their guidance wh»n
they get into tight places. With some of our
Bushmen Contingents it has notoriously been a
case of putting novices into lucrative billots under
pressure from influential relatives and friends,
and should the incompetence of these favored
boodlers result in a heavy loss of life the blood
will bo on Government heads. Meanwhile people
who can tell a shameful tale of jobbery in connec-
tion with the appointment of this, that, or the
other impostor to an officer’s billet are content to
chuckle over the awful revelation as though it
were a harmless joke. God save the Bushmen 1
They will need all the good luck Providence can
spare them.
■ ♦
“Brehon”: Although I am inclined to think
from motives of expediency that it would have
been better if the decision of constitutional ques-
tions under the Commonwealth Bill had been left
to the Privy Council until the generation of those
who framed the constitution and took part in the
bitter platform strifes of the referendum had
passed away, and although I think that the word-
ing of the disputed clause will throttle in its
legalism the development of healthy constitutional
“conventions” (as distinguished from “legisla-
tion”) in the State constitutions, I cannot but
think that the reasons given by Chamberlain for
refusing to pass the Bill as it stands make serious
inroads into the principle of responsible govern-
ment obtaining at present, and developing, in
Australia. Since the constitution already makes
provisions for matters affecting other parts of the
“empire” (? under what Act of Parliament, by
the way, was the alleged empire constituted?),
Chamberlain’s interference is obviously in the
interests of branch establishments here of extra-
Australian businesses. The ideal of responsible
Government under the Crown is that the province
enjoying it shall have as absolute power in all
internal matters as though it were independent.
Chamberlain’s claim amounts to this, that laws
good enough for the citizens of the Commonweath
are not good enough for the branch establishments
of non-Australian citizens. Remembering that
Imperial rights and those of other portions of the
“ empire ” are carefully safeguarded, his position
is tantamount to holding that the public interests
and expressed will of the whole of Australia are
unimportant in Imperial eyes as compared with
the private interests of the few branch businesses
in Australia belonging to outside Britishers.
The people of Adelaide, as soon as they began to
consider the awfulness of their privately-owned
horse-trams —those antiquated match-boxes which
the antiquated cats-meat drags past the many
churches of the Holy City—fell against the usual
obstacle. They might have got a new up-to-date
service owned by the Corporation if there was only
one Corporation, but a dozen Corporations made
any agreement practically impossible. No tram-
horse can adequately serve twelve masters or be
driven in twelve directions at once, and even an
electric service with twelve bosses to turn the
current on and off gets into trouble. A place like
Glasgow, where one municipal council is enough
for 600,000 people, can run Corporation tramways.
But under the chaotic Australian municipal system,
where a reasonably long tram-horse may stand in
three municipalities at once, with his head
under one system of bye-laws, and his tail under
another, and the middle of him responsible to
quite a different set of officials from those that
boss the two ends, and the whole of him trying to
obey 36 aldermen and three mayors, and his head
forbidden to loiter in the streets while his tail may
stay there almost indefinitely—this sort of thing
makes any kind of municipal enterprise practically
impossible. A greater Adelaide is wanted almost
as badly as a greater Sydney, and quite as badly
as a greater Brisbane and Melbourne.
-♦
South Australia, in view of the fact that a smaller
State Parliament and State establishment will
suffice when the business is, in a great measure,
handed over to the Federal Legislature, is taking
timely steps to deal with the question. Premier
Holder intends, in the first place, asking Parlia-
ment to pass an Enabling Bill which will
authorise the people to elect a Convention. It is
to consider the size of the State Parliament after
Federation, number of Ministers, pay of members
and Ministers, to mark out the future electorates,
to consider the status of the State Governor, to
decide what officials can be dispensed with, what
offices abolished or amalgamated, to refix salaries
where needful, and in general to overhaul the
Constitution and make all necessary alterations to
suit the new conditions. Its decisions are then to
be accepted or rejected by referendum. If Holder
can get that measure through the Council it will
be a great idea. The new conditions necessitate a
complete reconstruction of the State Government
machine on a smaller scale, and it is far better to
make a smaller machine in one act than to tinker
slowly with the old big one, and saw bits off here
and there till it is a shapeless nothing in par-
ticular.
4
The ultra-jingo London Weekly Despatch prints
this j
STUDENT RIOTS IN CANADA.
Montreal, March 3. —The students were the cause of
another riot last night. The undergraduates of Laval, the
large French university, reinforced by a crowd of 5000
sympathisers, all carrying the tricolor, marched to the
offices of a leading English newspaper, tore down the
Union Jack, and trampled on it. After this the Marseil-
laise was sung. The insult to the flag caused a free fight,
in which revolvers were used and several were badly hurt.
The Victoria Rifles were called out to protect the drill
sheds, which were threatened by the mob. Race feeling
between French and English is very bitter.— Laffan’s
Agency.
Montreal, March 3.— Lieut.-Col. Sherwood, Chief of the
Dominion Police, and Lieut.-Col. White, commanding the
Montreal Militia District, conferred with the City Police
this morning. They made arrangements for the mobilisa-
tion of the Militia and police to prevent further trouble
to-night. In the police-court to-day, fourteen rioters,
comprising members of both nationalities, were fined. —
Reuter.
How carefully ugly items of this sort are hidden
from Australian eyes by the agents of the local
cable-ring. Isn’t it about time that Australia got
some daily newspapers to give it the daily news
without fear ©r favor ?
♦
The Melbourne jury’s rider condemning the
practice of allowing the police to participate in
rewards is, although gingerly received by Justice
Holroyd, one of the sanest riders presented by an
Australian jury for years past. And it is as sane
in every part of Australia as in Melbourne. The
police should look wholly to their Department for
pay and promotion. Theirentire skill and energy
are in the service of the Department and if they
put forth special powers it is to the Department
they should look for recognition. Any surrender
of this principle inevitably invites, and in cases
compels, abuse. A policeman, waiting for the
offer of a private reward, may stand idle. If the
criminal offer a greater sum than the complainant
he may stand idle. It is unsafe and unfair to ex-
pose any body of men, especially the police, to
have to thus daily and hourly judge between
present personal advantage and loyal official duty.
4
“ Nautious ” writes to The Bulletin as one who
understands:—
It was elicited at the Inquiry into the loss of the Qlenelg
that the crew had not been allotted “ stations ” in emer-
gency, nor practised in “ boat drill.” But it is certain
that very few ships, excepting mail steamers and those
engaged in the Eastern trade (carrying alien crews), ever
do practise drill of any sort. All this reverts to the
manning (or undermanning) question, which was sup-
posed to be enquired into by a Royal Commission some
years ago, but which (probably on account of pressure
from shipowners and others interested) was decently
interred in a voluminous report. Anyone knowing what
a vast amount of work devolves on a chief mate will
understand that it is simply impossible, with crews such
as are oarried nowadays, to find time for any fire or boat
drill. The simple remedy is to compel all passenger-
carrying vessels to have a larger complement of sailors
(not stewards or firemen). What is the use of having
surveyors to see that all life-saving gear is in good
condition if hands are wanting to work it in emergency ?
This is an old and—with owners—a very sore subject, but
it will do no harm to drive auother nail into the “ under-
manned coffin.” And what folly it is, in this connection,
that the President of the Marine Board—l have nothing
to say against him personally—should himself be a
shipowner.
*
The politioal Labor party, which, after years of
hard graft, battles its way to offioe, finds the latter
isn’t quite the Promised Land it looked from a
distance. At Broken Hill, the only N.S. W. town
with a Labor mayor and a “solidarity” Labor
majority amongthe aldermen, all the great schemes
are hobbled by an accursed lack of pence; and
men who have been yelling for the party have
swooped down in droves, demanding easy billets;
and as the supply of billets runs out aldermen
begin to say nasty things about the dispropor-
tionate allotment of favors. Also, some of the
new appointees, unused to the glitter of their new
surroundings, have gone on a long “tear”an<l
otherwise made things hum. And yet the party’s
municipal policy is so thoroughly good that it
will be a thousand pities if it goes to pieces.
4.
As soon as the Federal Parliament gets going and
has half-an-hour to spare, somebody might as well
introduce a bill to prohibit the adoption of very
large-sounding names by very small political as-
sociations. If the cable were to mention that a
couple of dozen Boer burghers in Schwartzen-'
dorpen had strongly advised the British Govern-
ment to stick to its South African policy, even the
Jingoes would laugh at the simple impudence of
those non-representative Dutchmen. Yet their
message wouldn’t be more ridiculous than one sent
from Melbourne addressed to J. Chamberlain.
It was signed by Walter Madden, and it ran
thus:
Australasian National League, hearty federationists,
representing influential section community, strongly sup-
ports right appeal Privy Council.
Seen through the eyeglass of Chamberlain, who
can’t be expected to know but what the precious
A.N.L. is a live concern, and who probably
remembers that Madden is a name he has often
seen at the bottom of cablegrams from —haw !
Australia, the meddlesome message must have
appeared quite important. Biit it merely meant
that a group of lawyers and such, in one Aus-
tralian city, are anxious to maintain a legal system
which gives the moneyed litigant one last strong
pull over his “poor but honest” adversary. The
employment of such terms as Australasian
National League in matters concerning the
Commonwealth is a Fatman fraud that ought to
be impossible.
4
It is believed by many that much good would be
done if municipal rates were levied on land values
only. *At present if two men own a £5OO block of
land each, and one puts up a £2OOO structure
which is a thing of beauty and usefulness, while
the other puts up a wooden horror for £lOO, the
first man is taxed on £2500 and the other on £6OO.
If both were taxed equally on their £5OO worth of
land, and on that only, then it is held there would
be a distinct inducement to put up good buildings
so as to get a better return from the land. The
tax on buildings would be abolished and that on
land about doubled, and it wouldn’t pay to own a
valuable block and only have a humpy on it—the
humpy wouldn’t yield enough to pay taxes. But
without an efficient Building Act the scheme
would probably'work out in quite unexpected
ways. If a man had, under the old system, a £5OO
block of land with a dirty tenement on it, he
would probably, under the new system, begin to
think out ways for crowding two dirty tenements
on it, for he would thereby get a lot more rent
without any more taxation. That is—unless the
law had methods of preventing him doing it.
Municipal taxation on land values only, with a
thoroughly efficient Building Act, would be excel-
lent. Without such an Act it would probably in
many cases be something quite different and some-
hing q uite unexpected.


t HE 3XTEW POLICY
Tl)« Mttial Lif* ioSOraoce Co. of M?w York
S pe cifies the amount of Surrender Value at the end of each year, the amount obtainable
Cent ” the amount of P aid ‘ u P insurance, and the Extended Term of
For further information apply to Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australasia
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
ifo
THE TRANSVAAL WAR!
The PREMO CAMERA
18 IN THE FRONT RANK
OF HAND CAMERAS,
AND CANT BE BEATEN.
Price, 255. to £2O.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
81 Queen-st., Brisbane.
260 Collins-st. ) Melbourne.
>•
65 Rundle-st., Adelaide.
Fowler’s Traction Engines
mm,
Portables, Locos, Road Rollers, &c.,
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
SPECIAL COLONIAL TYPE&
STEAM CULTIVATING
MACHINERY.
Illustrated Catalogues : Post Free.
73 Clarence-street, Sydney
AND
Clyde Works, Granville.
The “ Thistle ” Oil* Engine.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ School for Scandal."
Royal “ The Tyranny of Tears.”
Lyceum “ A Soldier and a Man."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Criterion “ East Lynne.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ What Happened to Jones.”
Theatre Royal “The Ladder of Life.”
Buoc Rickards' Variety Co.
“Robbery Under Arms,” which has been
sticking up the public coach for several weeks and
getting away with plenty of loot, now returns to
the dusty seclusion of the Criterion stock-box.
Therefrom will presently arise “ East Lynne,” the
tale of the lady who went astray in an open and
honest manner, and afterwards wished she had
been more circumspect. Because of which valuable
moral this tearful horror bids fair to revive every
year or so till the Day of Judgment.
* * *
Revival is the Sydney theatrical order of
the day. At the Lyceum “A Soldier and a
Man ’ struggles up from the Past. He struggles
up so quickly that he lias only time to change into
khaki uniform, and doesn’t bring the Zulu War
up to the Transvaal trouble in any other respect
The story is the ancient yarn of the villain who
promised he would allow the aged couple to die
m the old, old home, and as one of the said
couple actually does fulfil her lugubrious desire
having struggled back from the workhouse to do
so, there doesn’t seem much tangible reason for
the .after fuss. Dora De Winton acts gracefully
the long, well-cut grey gown of stage poverty,
and drinks her husband’s beer in the sacred cause
of Teetotalism with all her old genius.
** * *
The drama of “Elizabeth,” at Her
Majesty’s, still continues to be a tempestuous em-
bodiment of th.e good old days when rows regal
raged up and down the Royal palace, and the
nobility of England never regarded their heads as
quite their own private property but as lent out to
them by Elizabeth Regina and liable to be resumed
at any moment by their lawful owner. There is
too much of Elizabeth in “Elizabeth,” which was
probably also the opinion of the dukes and earls
aforesaid ; and there is, perhaps, a little too much
dwelling on the royal tendency to order off heads
at a moment’s notice and revoke the sentence if
the owner thereof happened casually to remark
that her hair was done up nicely—for in that case
nobody need have died at all, as observations to
the above effect are within the capabilities of
everyone.
* * * *
Nobody can conduct a regal brawl better
than Nance O’Neil; but when a woman brawls
from 8 P-rcL till half-past nine it is too much
like real life, and when she continues brawl-
ing till 11, Nance O’Neil is a sort of his-
trionic volcano and whirlwind and cyclone in one,
and she makes even the tired dress-circle take a
momentary interest in the spacious days of Queen
Elizabeth. As a tornado in good working order
Lance is all right, but there is a hint of crudity
here and there, a slight want of detail. Her
pathos, except for the first moment or two, does
not convince, and when she dies twice over in two
totally different ways one hasn’t the slightest in-
clination to attend the funeral. As the duty of
most of the co. consists mainly in trembling in
their shoes, this scribe need only remark that they
trembled very well, and that their shoes looked
very nice. Kingston’s Earl of Essex hasn’t the
appearance of a royal mash, but he comes well up
to the O’Neil standard in the great Row scene—the
Row that takes place in the Throne-room on the
celebrated ear-spanking occasion.
** * #
“ The Liars,” revived on Saturday at the
Royal, is a brightly melancholy comedy, wherein
a disconsolate wife yearns in vain for the kindly
slipper of conjugal correction, and distracted hus-
bands go about asking one another how to manage
their wives, and never seem to think of the much-
needed slipper method at all. “ The Liars ” also
tells the old, old story of the Man that loved the
Woman and the Woman that ioved the Tempta-
tion till she began to have a hankering after the
Man as well. The items in the menu of the sinful
cinner which the would-be erring wife never gets
are mentioned at luscious length, but nothing is
said of the second repast to which the forgiving
husband invites his wife as a reward of virtue.
Probably the chief dish therein was Humble Pie.
Mrs. Brough acts with all her old vigor, and
Brough preaches his out-of-date morality to good
effect. “ The Liars ” has one bright touch of
originality, as herein the lady has a small crowd of
friends straining every nerve to preserve her
reputation and only one trying to destroy it:
whereas, in real life, matters are generally com-
pletely reversed.
** * &
At the Tivoli, where the setting sun
gleams in the windows of the houses with the
ancient gables, and the shadows lie along the blue
hills, the clear, rapier voice of Brinkmann is
heard to, much advantage what time that strong-
chested young man fires off deep notes by simply
nodding his head. Lawton also moves liis audi-
ence to a pronounced ripple with his rout about
Riley,” while the wee infant performer, Roy
Gashin, quite brings down the house. When these
have.done their parts and left a pleasant taste in
the mouth, the dreadful advertising curtain comes
down with a rush and spoils it all. The effect of
this dismal apparition is somewhat relieved by the
sweet voice and dainty mandolin-playing of Miss
Stella Ranger, sister of the popular lady who
nightly sings Jingo songs and threatens to over-
run the world with blue-jackets. Then the
Newsky Family of eight alleged Muscovites
are discovered in quaint dresses, and, being
discovered, brazen it out by singing a song
chiefly about “inski.” Then they alternately
bound round like india-rubber balls possessed, and
gyrate and whirl on their heels in a squatting
position while the orchestra plays barbaric music,
ai l. the members of the Family who are not
whirling on their heels make dissonant crashes on
their tamborines. When Arthur Crane sings, all
the people with the long hair clap loudly, for bari-
tone Arthur has a very valuable asset in his larynx.
Master Nelson Illingworth, pupil of singing-mas-
ter Woodhouse, made his debut on Saturday
night. He has a clear, strong voice, and some
night when he gets over his stage nervousness and
warms up to his work, he will let himself go, and
damage the dome of Rickards’ theatre. Tom
-Browne mixes cocktails and whistles double notes,
and finally imitates the sound of a knife on a grind-
stone, and several other people do several other
things, of which mention will be duly made here-
after.
** * *
The Ladder of Life,” at Melb. Royal,
turns out to be a money-making concern like
everything else that has happened in the old house
since Manager Anderson came along. There’s a
simple honesty about the madness of these modern
melodramas which recommends them to theaverage
mortal. “The Ladder ”is madder than some that
were sadder because they tried to seem serious,
and the multitude takes to it accordingly. The
humor of the two villains who run the Afridi re-
bellion in striped calico, and then roam around
Lngland in tailor-made costumes looking for
Olga Zobinsky and the lost codicil, is well-
sustained humor. Their evil deeds are
funny all the time. After chasing Olga and
the missing document from Torquay to India
and back, they can’t think of anything less
than a steam-hammer to destroy the girl
with, but when at last she dies from natural
causes (the only natural causes in the drama),
Gustus Glover makes up his mind to stab her with
a carvmg-knife in a rational manner. Whereupon
the shock of finding that he has raised his hand
against a woman when she was dead drives the
colossal ’Gustus to brandy and spiritualism, and
despair. He can’t even bring himself up to stick-
mg point where Olga’s cheeild is concerned, so a
red-headed M‘Dougall fires a volley into the
enemy s demoralised flank, and compels him to
turn dog on H. Willard in the presence of a
solicitor.
* • • •
The storming of Dargai Heights by the
braw Heelanders has grown more desperate since
the first night, and the flight of the Afridis is now
worth all the money charged for admission. Also
the capture of Dora Mostyn by Bert Bailey
M Dougall is a lively engagement, and this journal
can spare a good word for the policeman whom
Dora keeps under offer as long as the fate of
M Dougall s legs remains in doubt. Strange to
say, no member of the co. calls for a bad word,
except, perhaps, sundry wounded Gordons in the
field hospital, who lie abed with their kilts on
and give no signs of suffering. A few gruesome
effects, such as a dying gurgle and a black screen,
might as well have been introduced into the
hospital-scene; but, take it altogether, “The
Ladder of Life” is a painstaking joke. Many
little things occur during the night, and, as a
rule, the smallest details are carefully filled in.
** * #
At the Princess’s the success of “What
Happened to Jones” begins to explain itself.
Jones tickles the female comprehension. A
learned theologist, cut off from his everyday gar-
ments, makes furtive appearances in a blanket,
and the figure of an elderly male person walking
stealthily downstairs in his bed-clothes has an
exhilarating influence on womankind. Something
‘ funny ” and mildly suggestive, with no sus-
picion of satire in it, is what the Sex asks for.
When the distressed theologist is waylaid by
another man in a blanket—-who has broken loose
from a lunatic asylum to look for squaws—there is.
joy among that portion of the audience which
doesn t take refreshment between the acts. Also,
when Jones’s best girl extracts a pair of pants
from the bowels of the piano a burst of light
soprano merriment announces the event. “Jones”
is just a hustling comedy of clothes and errors, and
up to now The Bulletin has heard no ill spoken
of it.
** * *
Melbourne Alexandra will this week say
good-bye to its cognomen, and the Woods-
Williamson co. are playing the house’s old and
smellful identity to a finish. Anyone who would
feel a sentimental regard for the last programme
issued by the “Aleck” as the “Aleck” must roll
op t° “ The Gates of Bondage,” which starts this
Wednesday (9th) upon a wild career of two or
three consecutive nights. “Hands Across the
Hea was to perish of public neglect on Tuesday,
what time The Bulletin went to press. Last
Saturday the drama aforesaid added a new song
and a new tenor to its other respectable attrac-
tions, and the crude young voice of the tenor
appeared to have some good stuff in it.
*** ’ *
J. C. Williamson has arranged to convert
at® Alexandra into Her Majesty’s Theatre on
May 19th, when it will re-open under his manage-
ment for comic - opera purposes. Meanwhile
architect Pitt is preparing to pour a strong force
of painters and decorators into the auditorium as
soon as the present tenant gives up possession. It
is expected that six days and nights of drastic
treatment before and behind the curtain will
result in something very like a new theatre. Any
way Her Majesty’s will be Clean.
** * *
A new turn by Davy’s marionettes is the
only notable change at the Bijou since last week.
Amann, Irene Franklin, Seel (in new songs), Tod
Callaway, old friend Whitburn and eo. are
pegging away as usual, and the co. includes that
bright infant, Fanny Powers, whose sturdy legs
and general precociousness are not less remarkable
than they were six months ago.
** * *
A lorig and lively contest between good-
hearted Charles Godfrey and the almighty Rum
bottle terminated a few weeks ago in the usual
manner. The man threw up the sponge, and was
buried amidst a shower of observations to the
effect that he had been nobody’s enemy but his
own. Three or four years ago Charles Godfrey
came to Australia under Rickards’ management
for the “benefit of his health” (then already
broken), and Australia recognised in him a really
powerful artist whenever he was not too unsober
to do himself justice. He had a sweet nasal voice,
a great talent for character acting, and any
amount of personal magnetism. A melodramatic
actor before he took to the variety stage, he sub-
sequently scored on his biggest successes in a
pantomime. He leaves no successor. There has
been no music-hall artist who could touch Godfrey
—except for the loan of a sov.
At Poverty Point.
Funny letter recently received by Fitzgerald (Circus)
Bros, in Maoriland : —“ Dear Sir, I see by advertisement
you have arrived in Wellington. And are showing verious
novelites. I have a good trick dog I would sell. He will
do some good tricks about 20 in number. I will mention
some of them and then you can form an idea for the price
he is worth and let me know if you could do with him.
He will fetch his tail in his mouth and give it to you in
your hand go round and round with it. He will get on
my back and give 3 cheers for the Queen and then take
off my hat and shake the flees out and then put it on.
[Devilish considerate of him !] He will jump over your
back or through your arms held up above your head. He
will lead a horse or ride one or jump up and give you any
thing on a horse. He will yawn, sing and bow he will
sham asleep he will find any thing I hide or burry. He is
a very inteligent dog and I think he would learn any
thing. If you think you could do with him kindly let me
know.”
The statement that Tom Fitzgerald is on his way back
to Australia with a new co. and a war-biograph turns out
to be very premature. When last heard from the genial
Thomas was only discussing the bio. question and had not
made any engagements.
Williamson told an Adelaide interviewer that he means
to show a “ fumigated ” version of “ Sapho ” in Australia
with Nance O’Neil or Edith Crane in the name part.
Donald MacDonald, the A rows man who was cooped up
in Ladysmith, will shortly begin an Australian lecturing
tour, and being a fine, manly fellow of good presence and
destitute neither of humor nor of talking power, he
should do very well indeed.
Snappy little Ada Reeve, says the cable, has divorced
Bert Gilbert, on the ground of that thin young husband’s
intimacy with strange goddesses. Ada’s first separation
from Bert happened in Melbourne, but they duly kissed
and made it up, and were effusively fond of one another
for the next few weeks. At that time they had sound
business reasons for trying to live happily together, but
after their return to England the clever little woman got
star engagements at the ’alls, whereas hubby became an
unimportant person on his own. Presumably he relapsed
into unfaithfulness in the provinces whilst Ada was
earning big money and heaps of adulation in London.
Ada Reeve was playing chief part in a musical comedy
at the Lyric Theatre when she got her divorce. Splendid
ad. for the show. Women always take a warm interest in
a divorcee, though for that matter, they feel more drawn
towards a respondent than a petitioner.
Beatrice Lamb, who came to Australia as the buxom
leading lady of Cartwright’s Co., has been playing the
name part in “Niobe.” Face, figure and voice are all
right for “ Niobe”—but how about her arms ? Australia
couldn’t take very kindly to Miss Lamb, for the reason
that she always carried her arms as though they had been
borrowed from a doll-shop.
The Irish-loyalty boom was worked for all its worth by
some of the London managers. At the Garrick every
visitor got a sprig of shamrock on St. Patrick’s Day, also
the stage warriors appearing in “Booties’ Baby” wore
green helmets in honpr of the occasion.
Arthur Garner, since he arrived in England, has done a
provincial engagement or two, including one with a
comedy co. headed by William Horace Lingard. He tells
The Bulletin that affairs theatrical are dull, owing to the
war and the many shows organised for the war-funds.
Mr. Garner’s children, it would appear from newspaper
notices, are all displaying marked theatrical aptitude, and
have been very successful at several entertainments.
Charles Warner, who must be nearer 60 than 50 by now,
has been reappearing in London revivals of “ Drink ” and
“ It’s Never Too Late to Mend,” which are about the best
moral-lesson melodramas ever staged. If a tall, com-
manding actor doesn’t grow too fat he can live for 35 years
in England on his identity with two or three popular
characters.
Alma Stanley, the large, massive lady who accompanied
little Paulton to Australia and shared'his'“ frost,” broke
out as a Jingo “ poetess ” the other week. She published
some verses—“ An English Lord ’’—dealing with his lord-
ship’s noble behaviour in South Africa, for the benefit of
the Fund.
Printed that Florence Young was this month to embark
upon a year’s training at the Ecole Marchesi, Paris ; for
this it is understood her wealthy father-in-law, Mr.
Rivington, stands Sam.
An interesting question of propriety cropped up in a
London county-court a few weeks back, when one Walter
Emerson, music-hall comedian, summoned his manager
for a week’s salary. The manager had “ sacked ” him on
the ground that his songs were too blue, and the defence
submitted the songs to his Honor for perusal. After care-
fully reading the lines and in between the lines of “ Flighty
Girls,” ‘'Let, Me,” “Now’s the Time,” “All Three,” and
“ I shan’t charge you much for doing that,” the magistrate
said he couldn’t conceive how the public could listen to
such suggestive balderdash, and although he found it
“ difficult to know the degree of music-hall morality” the
disgusted old gent, dismissed the case with coats against
the balderdasher. The differences between English and
Australian audiences aa regards their liking, or disliking,
for certain songs is strangely contradictory. Rickards
wouldn’t think of passing some of the “ blue ” stuff sung
at the London ’alls, yet it is a fact that Tom Costello’s
hideous caricature of the old ballet-girl, which “ went
well ” in Melbourne and Sydney, was objectionable to the
cockneys as a rule.
Genevieve Ward and her leading-man, Vernon, of long
ago, are still firm friends, apparently. They came to Aus-
tralia together in 'B4, playing “ Forget-Me-Not,” “ The
Queen’s Favorite,” and other pieces, and at a recent
London matinee they appeared in a new dialogue written
for them by Miss Clo Graves. By the way, how old is
Genevieve Ward ?
Now that the first fury of the jingo fever has passed
away some of the London rhymesters begin to touch the
Boer subject humorously enough. Adrian Ross parodies
Lewis Carroll in “The Dopper and the Orangeman,” and
narrowly escapes being smart:
“ If seven Swiss for seven years
Would kindly arbitrate,
Do you suppose,” the Dopper said,
“ That you could save your State f"
“ I doubt it,” said the Orangeman :
“ That dodge is out of date."
“ Oh, Britons, make a peace with me,’
The Dopper said with calm;
“ For I can wave the olive branch
As well as win the palm :
My character is stated in
The fifty-second Psalm.”
The Canadian papers no longer call Mrs. Langtry the
Jersey Lily; she is now the Water Lily, being Mrs. De
Bathe.
Portraits of Irving’s son, Laurence, just now to the fore
again with a play called “ Bonnie Dundee,” show a strik-
ing likeness to his father, and, in other respects, he seems
to take after the “ old man.” For instance, the costumes
for “ Bonnie Dundee ” were designed by Ellen Terry’s
daughter, Miss Edith Craig.
Victoria's marvellous J.P. has broken out in a
new place. In St. Kilda, from innuendoes and
discourteous remarks, matters have proceeded to
open hostilities, even to several J’s.P. getting up
from the bench and leaving the alleged offender—
the Mayor—alone to occupy the seat of judgment.
A deputation of residents who interviewed Solici-
tor-G-eneral Davies on the matter told that Mini-
ster that they were tired of the honorary foolish-
ness, that it was impossible for a litigant to get
justice if he came from a particular ward of the
city, and that it would save much trouble if a P. M.
were to sit every court day. The Minister replied
that the Treasury wasn’t equal to the strain of
another P.M., and that the local beaks were a
most worthy set of gentlemen, and the fact that
they squabbled on the bench by no means indi-
cated any unfitness to occupy that position, etc.,
and so forth. Brunswick bench is also in a chronio
state of unpleasantness, several of its members
having been instructed by the Crown Law De-
partment to refrain, in the interests of peace, from
sitting on days when certain other gentleman are
accustomed to adjudicate. And yet Vic. justice
expects itself to be respected. But Victoria has a
great and abiding love for its J.P. He is a
failure, but then he is a cheap failure. Probably
if the public were called upon to pay its J’s.P. it
would suddenly discover that they were worth
about a shilling a century apiece.
There was something ludicrously English
about the name—Lieutenant Thomposon—of the
Netherlands Military Attache to the Boer Army
who fell into Lord Roberts’ hands owing to the
breakdown of a wagon, liy the way, Thomposon
subsequently died.
The Paddington S.mi: iry Vigilance Com-
mittee nearly three weeks ago passed a resolution
calling on the Metropolitan Board of Health to
gazette the names of Sydney business places
where plague-cases had occurred, the committee
contending that the withholding of this informa-
tion from the public was not to be justified either
on expedient or on ethical grounds. The request
has apparently tied the Board of Heath in a knot,
as it has refrained from answering the letter
covering the resolution. The Paddington Com-
mittee now talks of convening a meeting to
demand the quarantining of several spots said to
have been the source of a good many bubonic
cases.
Some discontent and disillusionment now
manifests itself among the numerous amateur war-
correspondents serving with the Australian troops
in South Africa. One trooper, Quartermaster-
Sergt. Blow (which he doesn’t), of Berry (N.S.W.)
Lancers, writes that: —
War is not what I expected, nor are all the glorious
and daring deeds done that the papers would have you to
believe. I consider fifty per cent, of the men here will
never see a Boer on the field, and more than half who are
killed and wounded hardly know where the shot came
from that struck them. It is mostly long range fighting.
.... Almost all of our fellows are sick of the war, and
wish it was over. Five months roughing it is enough for
anyone. We see where a lot of stuff has been sent to the
soldiers, but all we have seen yet is our khaki suit. If we
go on to Pretoria it will mean another three months for
us at least: but I hope Kruger will soon give in. No one
will be sorry. Soldiering is like everything else, a little of
it is right enough, but too much fills you up.
However, there are some sanguine souls left, even
after the destruction of the belief that the Boers’
farms were to be all confiscated and divided among
the conquering troops. One N.S.W. private
writes:—
This will be a grand country after the war is over, and
my advice to everyone is to come over. They can’t go
wrong for a job, from all I can hear. Tell —— that good
drapers in the colony, before the war, in the outside
towns, received from £l5 to £2O per month.


t
w
A
Zp z *f
m
p
f=d S ™
m
==s
Irini
Infl
m
I rai
ZETZswgN
BMASMOIIE
mm. iill©
tfcbaecc#
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAVY AND'WAR OFFICE.
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
n
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
I Cope Bros. & Co., Ltd, Liverpool. AgentsjjOjit^
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• » » *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
tyTessrs. W. & J. Lempriere, Mining Machinery
Merchants, 506 Little Collins-street, Melbourne, report
that the Luhrig system of concentration is gradually es-
tablishing itself in the principal mills of Australia. The
latest Luhrig vanner has a large capacity, and owing to
important improvements the life of the belt, &c., is greatly
increased. Vanners and spare parts are stocked in Melb.
and prompt delivery is thus assured. A small testing
plant is available near Melbourne. Upon receipt of
necessary data, estimates for complete plants, including
batteries, rolls, trommels, jigs, classifiers, vanners, &c.,
will be proceeded with by competent engineers.*
* • » •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
» • * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators find fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressor!, &c., &c.*
* * * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
» » « •
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfonnder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports tha the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
Joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
• * • •
Insurance News, July Ist, 1899: “It is mani-
festly the determination of the executive of the Colonial
Mutual Society that everything connected With the Com-
pany shall be placed on the strongest and soundest
Dasis.*
• • • *
Mr. J. A. Wallace, the pioneer of the gold-
dredging industry in Australia, holds a long stretch of the
Sandy Creek, near Yaclcandandah, and intends installing
a very large electrical plant to operate several dredges.
An order has just been placed with the Austral Otis
Engineering Co., of South Melbourne, to supply high-class
compound condensing engines, with Corliss valve gear, of
400 h.p., together with boilers and fittings to operate tho
first section of the plant. A duplicate plant to this will
be installed later and will work three electric dredges on
a stretch of about two miles of the creek. Each dredge
will have a capacity of about 150 cubic yards per hour.*
* ■* * *
From time to time during the past three years
mining engineers have been going from Sydney to take
up appointments in the Celebes ; among them several
former students at the University School of Mines. So
far it appears to have been nearly all prospecting and dis-
appointment. Some little development is going on, how-
ever ; and small plants have been erected on one or two
of the concessions. The Parke and Lacy Co. has just
received instructions from Batavia to ship a pumping out-
fit for this section, ultimate destination unknown.*
* * * •
Taylor Horsfield is the largest rock-drill manu-
facturer in Australasia. Maker of the famous Improved
National Rock-drill. Works with a positive valve. No
fear of sticking up by grit getting into valve chest. This
is a source of annoyance and loss of time with drills work-
ing with a negative or pulsation valve. Nearly one thou-
sand (1000) of these drills are now in use on the various
goldfields of Australia. Manufactured from the very best
material that nearly twenty (20) years practical experi-
ence has taught to use. Has more steel parts than any
other drill on the market. The only machine used in
Bendigo, the home of records for quickest and cheapest
work. Challenges any other make for economy of air
with the maximum of work. The cheapest and most
economical drill offered to mining companies. Head office
and works, Bendigo, Vic. Agencies in all the colonies,
where duplicates can always be obtained. All parts are
interchangeable. Sole Agents for New South Wales,
Messrs. Plummer, Love and Co., 249 George-st., Sydney.*
• » * •
Gilfillan and McCreery have removed to more
commodious offices in the Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne. They have enlarged their mining laboratory
and ore-testing works and are prepared to test parcels of
ore to ascertain the most successful and economical
method of treatment.*
• * * *
Dear Bulletin.— Re reference (B. 7/4/’00) to the
average-striking method of jury-assessment. In a big
trespass case (T. Hungerford, then M.P. for the Hunter,
v. Sir John O’Shannessy and C. B. Fisher, the turfite),
about 15 years ago, the'jury thus arrived at its decision.
The writer’s father was on the jury, and the individual
verdicts totalled £lO,OOO. The plan isn’t without its
advantages, where all are in favor of a verdict for plaintiff,
because the man of greater ability often gives way to the
man of less, sooner than be locked up for hours. Further,
“eloquent” gentlemen have no chance of unduly in-
fluencing other men with more weight and less gab.—
Suity.
The Boers have a few remarkably demo-
cratic notions. Ukased by Pretorian authorities
that each of the British prisoners (officers as well)
should do his own work. A young English subal-
tern in a letter home, describes the joy with
which he watched his lordly colonel washing his
own shirt. Even the existence of Tommy Atkins
is occasionally lit up by a gleam of humorous joy.
Quite a number of Sydney shop-keepers,
including many with foreign names, have been
heavily fined for dirty premises. Strangely
enough, only one Chinese has so far faced the
bench on this charge. This Mongolian had a
quantity of smellful rags in his possession.
“ Dirty wool rag smell all-a-time,” said John, in-
dignantly. “ Dirty wool smell all-a-time. Whaffor
you no go lound Circlee Quay an’ small ’em wool-
store ! Hi-yah ! ”
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 8170
Hy. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-A., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NX. ;
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(0/0 S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OP
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any G'm Fi-ld.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
British B.H. has a new Australian director,
managing director Woodhead having resigned. The new-
comer is Peter Waite, hitherto only known in connection
with wool, skins and saltbush. It was thought that the
co. would get a good general manager, but it prefers to
continue with a non-expert managing director —W. J.
Magarey has been chosen.
Of the B.H. Prop.’s 960,000 shares London
register now holds 621,949 ; and the European end of the
quarterly div. amounts to £31,097 as against all Aus-
tralia’s £16,902. There are 217 shareholders, representing
36,293 shares, who get their divs. through Sydney, 2314
representing 178,462 shares through Adelaide, and 619
representing 107,050 through Melbourne.
» • * »
N.S.W. coal-mining seems, at this end of the
world, to be a pretty big thing. And yet, during last year
alone, England and Wales mined 220,085,303 tons of coal,
while in all her 75 years or so of mining N.S.W. has pro-
duced only 82,000,000 tons.
• • • •
The month of April, 1900, gave an increase in
Q. mining output of 28190z5. on that for April, ’99. Total
for last month, 74,9440z5. Oh. Towers’ quartz gave
17,6790z5. from 16,542 tons, together with 22,6650z5. from
47,630 tons tailings and concentrates. Oroydon output
was 50150 z. from 3655 tons quartz and 9980z5. from con-
centrates, etc. Clermont’s alluvial produced only 6160z5.
against 1061ozs. for April, ’99. The Etheridge also shows
a big fall, totalling only 9260z5. against nearly 3000ozs.
for April, ’99. Gympie shows a big increase—Blo7ozs.
from quartz and 83ozs. from tailings, against 48850z5.
(quartz) and 102ozs. (tailings) for same month of last year.
Mt. Morgan total amounts to 14,6340z5. Ravenswood re-
turns 16980z5. (quartz) and 3470z5. (tailings). Towers’
calls for the month, £4342 ; dividends, £33,326. Oroydon
calls, £347 ; divs., £4679. Gympie calls, £8593 ; divs.,
£B9lO. Mt. Morgan divs. amount to £29,167.
* * * •
The Callide Creek coal-find (Gladstone district)
is attracting considerable attention at present. Enormous
deposits of coal exist—one seam measuring 29 feet of un-
broken thickness. Quality said to be good. The Oallide
intends besieging Parliament re the running of a private
line to Gladstone, on the success of which the whole
matter hinges. Dawes range is the chief obstacle—and a
formidable one.
* * * *
Bendigo.—Most striking feature lately has been
the absence of all but two or three of the historical mines
from the div.-list, and the appearance of half-a-dozen
midgets. The list, for one week lately contained four
names, and all little-known—Oornish United, Ulster
United, Great Northern, and Victoria Consols. New
Chum and Victoria and the North Old Chum directors
are considering a very desirable amalgamation ; it is
ridiculous for handkerchief claims to attempt to work at
great depths economically. Even George Lansell, the
greatest sticker of all, has thrown it up at his 180 Mine
(so called because it runs 180 ft. along the line) ; he has
brought up the tools and battened down the shaft. It
was in this mine that Lansell did most of his deep-coun-
try pioneering.
* « • •
Up to 30tli June, 1899 (2Jr years), the Viotorian
State Land Bank advanced £790,245 on the security of
land, and of this sum no less than £700,455 was for the
purpose of paying off high-priced mortgages to private
capitalists. Assuming that these mortgages were, on the
average, only at 1 per cent, higher a rate than the State
Bank charges, the saving to the producers is over £7OOO a
year. Probably it is more like £20,000 a year. Any
Government which makes the ill-paid agriculturists of
the province this much better off does a good deed,
which should be remembered in its favor. For the year
ending 30th June, 1899, the Vic. State Land Bank made a
profit of £5547, and arrears of principal and interest at
that date were only £B4.
* * * •
May interest some who buy W. A. shares to learn
that there are no true chutes in Boulder mine—or any-
where else in W.A. The chutes, of which reports make so
much are merely lenticular bodies of rich ore, starting
from a point, bulging in the middle, and tapering to a
point again—like a string of kidneys. Longer or shorter,
they are all of the same build. The true chute, even when
apparently cut-out, may be driven for at a higher or lower
level, with fair hopes of it being picked up again. Which
constitutes the difference between it and the W.A.
variety. Knowing this peculiarity, ex-manager Callahan
could have had no difficulty in foreseeing—when the pro-
ducing chutes began to taper-off—the stoppage of L.V.
Consols sensational returns.
• * •
The people get back more of the “unearned
increment” under the Mining Acts than almost anyway
else. Allotments for residence or business, taken up
under miners’ rights, can afterwards be turned into free-
holds—in N.S.W. on payment of the full assessed value of
the land at the time. For Broken Hill land the State has
got up to £2400 an acre ; just outside the town similar
land is worth, in freehold, under 10s. an acre. And as
much as £l4O has been paid to Government for land in
such absolutely abandoned townships as Round Hill.
Even in live mining towns —Broken Hill, for instance —
the Government has for hundreds of allotments received
far more than they could have been sold for at any time
since. A single-tax on land, designed to get back to the
people the value which the people had given to the land,
would be pretty rough on these owners 1
“ Wealth of Nations,” Dunn’s new discovery—
in the interests of Alec Forrest & Co. —has been baptized
the Crown of Nations. It is out Leonora-Mt. Malcolm
way ; cartage to Menzies, head of the rail, is from £8 to
£lO a ton. Dunn himself enthuses about it.
* * • •
The youngsters still go “ specking ” round Cool-
gardie and other towns after rain, and don’t get home
empty-fisted. After the April rains (which, by the way,
gave most of the co.s some months’ supply) one lloz.
piece was picked up on such an expedition.
* * * *
A sample of W.A. railway-management : On
Kalgoorlie-Boulder line (with the greatest passenger-trafflo
in the province), porters act as ticket-clerks, accompany
each train, and collect fares while the train travels. But
the evening trains are habitually over-crowded—Saturday
afternoons and nights especially so—and, as the porters
can’t finish in time, one or more carriage-loads on these
trains get off without being asked for fares. Consequence
is, passengers don’t buy tickets at the railway-stations ;
they trust to luck to get through without paying. Regular
riders, whom writer knows, boast that they do not pay
oftener than every other trip. And the railway depart-
ment suffers the loss for want of a few cheap barriers at
the stations, which the extra fares they could collect would
pay for in a week or two. Also—a small item only— ap-
plications for monthly tickets on goldfield-lines have to be
sent to Perth, 370 miies away, and the tickets issued from
there.
* * * *
The ’totherside miner, having now got the missus
across to the West, proceeds to open a Savings Bank
account. An average of 1500 accounts are now opened or
re-opened monthly ; and at the end of March there was
£159,519 more deposited than 12 months before.
« • * •
Dear Bulletin.—“ Flabby Paul” is a flabby
fool. Mt. Garnet is 28 miles from the Ohillagoe R. and
M. Co.’s branch-line terminus. Said terminus will be 16
miles from Mt. Cardwell which again is 12 miles from the
Garnet. The Atherton route to Garnet is 25 miles shorter,
and the Govt. Surveyor who went over both routes says
so. Said Govt. Surveyor’s estimate of the Atherton route
provided for one tunnel only—and even that has been
proved unnecessary by later experience. To begin at the
beginning again—I have ridden over the Wade’s-Garnet
route often ; evidently F.P. has not even pricked off the
distance on a map.—Mt. Garnet.
* • • *
Editor Bulletin.—Tb e facts re Herberton and
Mt. Garnet districts are, that alluvial miners here are not
making half the ruling rate of wages—viz., 9s. per day.
All the lodes are under exemption for the last 18 months,
being held by local speculators on the chance of selling
out. No rain of any consequence fell this year. Every
watercourse dry, not grass enough to feed a goat. Feed
for man and beast at famine prices. Any number of un-
employed.—E.H.
• • • *
S. Australian wheat export figures for the first
three months of the year show that last season wasn’t so
bad, after all. The province sent out 17,448 tons of flour
and 1,500,453 bushels wheat, which compares pretty well
with the worst —4467 tons flour, 960 bushels wheat, in the
first quarter of ’97. But in the first period of ’B5 the
figures were : 21,033 tons and 5,278,000 bushels ; and that,
too. was in the days before fertilisers mopped up from ss.
to £1 per acre.
* • • •
Adelaide daily papers, in a recent advt., had a
striking illustration of the new type of legislation. It was
a notice under the Fertilisers Act of ’9B setting out the
result of a Govt, analysis of certain artificial manure (far-
mers are going nap on artificial manures at present),
giving the names of the makers and sellers, and indicating
that the stuff was heavily adulterated. “ The public are
warned accordingly ” followed—a characteristic substitute
for the old-time “God save the Queen !” “The buyer
must beware ” still; but the Govt, helps him, and it is
only the dishonest seller who isn’t glad.
* • * #
Guano shippers along the Westralian and a
little of the South Australian coast never had such a good
time before. The booming of artificial manures by
government agricultural experts has increased one guano
co.’s orders 600 per cent, inside five years. And of one
German brand of chemical manure alone 14,000 tons were
imported last year. The change in farming methods, in
South Australia especially, amounts' to a revolution.
• * • •
The firming tendency of Sydney mining for the
moment is in dredging-shares. A boom may or may not
be coming, but certain it is that all sorts of dredging-
scrip, which a week or two ago was quite unsaleable,
can now find buyers. One or two dredges, which will
Bhortly declare their first returns, are expected to make
their debut in style.
• • • •
Last annual report of De Beers Diamond Mines,
South Africa, shows that the directors had, when the war
broke out, completed arrangements for the erection of
cold storage and a dynamite factory at Kimberley. “ The
dynamite factory,” the directors state, “ was rendered
necessary owing to the European monopoly which has
been created, and which rendered it impossible for this
co. to ascertain from year to year what price would be
demanded for this article. On the completion of its
factory it will be independent of all European rings, and
will have a ready market for any surplus in Rhodesia and
the Transvaal, which under a changed Govt, will have
markets open to all.” The diamonds produced during the
year realised £4,038,421, and the net profit was £1,974,707.
About 12 months ago the Diamond Buying Syndicate
made a contract for the purchase of the output at an
increased price, and “ in view of the general prosperity of
the world” the directors hoped for an equally favorable
price at the expiry of the present contract.
* * * *
“ E.S.S.” : We think that, despite the liability,
they are all right at present market price. The co.’s
business is bound to largely increase, and it is practically
safe from competition. The fly in the ointment indicated
by the market fall is the poor condition of the co.’s boats.
* * * *
Quite a number of Sydney wharf-owners in the
area resumed by N.S.W. Govt, will find, after they have
put in their compensation-claims, that they or their pre-
decessors have reclaimed ground without Government
permission, and so will have to considerably vary their
original demands.
* • * *
Mentioned by a Q. paper that a recent crushing
of three tons from the White Chief mine, which gave a
return of 3oz. 4dwt., was “entirely raised by Mrs. John
Condon and her young daughter.”
• • • •
Green-Bushes tin-lease holders have put before
the Mines Minister, but in most blundering fashion,
an application for prospecting grants. After 12 months’
work most of them, they say, have got to the bottom of
their purses. The Department will not risk it, though.
Meantime the -output, though still small, improves ; for
Jan. it was 151 tons ; for Feb., 16} ; and for March, 27j
tons. Rains have allowed the puddlers to get to work.
But there is every prospect of a terribly up-hill battle
before the field.
* • * *
No matter what vigilance is exercised by N.S.W.
in dealing with the Sydney wharf resumptions, Govt, is
bound to have to pay through the nose for some of the
ramshackle properties. For instance, Tub Bulletin hoars
that an English mortgage-renewal-transaction with regard
to a couple of wharf properties shows a depreciation in
mortgageable value of £BOOO in about ten years. Mortgage
was just about to be renewed at the figure based on the
depreciated valuation, when the glad tidings of the in-
tended resumption reached the ears of the mortgxgors.
And now it is safe to wager that the concern will be
financed at the old boom-time valuation—of even more.
• • » •
As to the threatened new Melb. evening paper
sagacious people say that they will believe it is coming
when they see it. The rumors about it are apparently
being circulated in order to feel the market. But some
of the likeliest of Melb. capitalists have been approached
directly and have declined to go in for it. Mayor
M’Eacharn, for instance, though politically ambitious,
has refused to put a penny into a paper speculation, and
“ Joe ” Syme, David’s wealthy nephew, prefers to stick to
mining. Meanwhile, Herald boss S. V. Winter rubs his
hands, and grows positively genial in his old age.
♦ * * *
Great Britain holds territory in which the
uitlanders constitute an overwhelming majority. Also,
as in the Transvaal, those uitlanders do nearly the whole
of the mining'. And, of course, Britain doesn’t tax that
industry as the wicked, unjust Boers did : it just lets the
uitlander mine all he likes, and send it all out of the
country, and it regards him as a person who ought to be
encouraged to send it away faster. There must therefore
be something wrong about the annual official report of the
Malay (British) States which sets out that in 1899 the tin
exports amounted to 644,255 piculs against 676,717 piculs
in 1898, but that, owing to an increase in the duty, the
tax on export (nearly all collected from uitlanders)
amounted for the year to 6,182,760 dols. against
3,211,054 dols. Talk about the iniquity of a dynamite
monopoly 1
* « • •
Stated, by English Engineering, that the out-
put of coal per miner in N.S.W. is 455 tons a year, in
America 450, Maoriland 440, England and Wales 297,
Germany 271, France 216, Natal (coolie labor) 156, British
India (ditto) 68. Prices per ton at pit’s mouth : America
4s. -7£d., N.S.W. ss. 7d., Spain 6s. Id., Gt. Britain 6s. 6d.,
Belgium Bs. 2£d., France Bs. BJd., Natal (coolie labor)
14s. 3d. Which, by the way, knocks out the hoary asser-
tion that lots of industries (zinc production, iron smelt-
ing, &c.) cannot be carried on here “ on account of the
excessive cost of coal due to the exorbitant demands of
labor.”
* m • •
The two one-time Queenslanders, Pritchard
Morgan and R. L. Jack (ex-Govt. Geologist), are going to
have a hard row to hoe in Corea. Morgan booked a Dig
thing in gold there, and Jack resigned his billet to act as
major-domo. The Corean Govt, now shows fight, aver-
ring that Morgan’s rights are restricted to prospecting.
Elements of a second Transvaal are on hand, and Morgan’s
bull-pup tenacity and influence may add another package
to the White Man’s Burden.
* * * *
The up-to-date amalgam-stealer carries up his
sleeve a little bladder of quicksilver with a piece of rub-
ber-tubing attached, and when he gets his slant at the
plates, he lifts a slice of amalgam with his knife a,nd then
plays the silver on the spot. Unless there is previous sus-
picion, detection is almost impossible. At a big Vic.
mine, where there had been much loss, the manager re-
cently put a lump of amalgam down, intending to plant
himself among the machinery and see who lifted it. But
while he was selecting his ambush the bait vanished.
* * • •
The diminished tote receipts at a race-meet on
the Maoriland West Coast were attributed, by club and
press, to abnormal speculation by the public in the
multitudinous dredging gambles lately organised. The
person who hasn’t got a pocketful of scrip is regarded as
a curio.
• * • *
After paying several premiums to an American
Insurance Co. carrying on business in Victoria, a policy-
holder noticed, with the help of a magnifying-glass, that
the words “ Registered as having no assets in Victoria,"
were inserted in each receipt. lie took little notice until
he went to money-lenders to borrow on the policy. They
one and all pointed to the mystic words and refused to
deal. The co. also refused, and offered him the cold com-
fort of a paid-up policy. As there are several interpro-
vincial offices similarly registered in Vic., it would be
interesting to know whether borrowers on their policies
have similar difficulties.
* * * *
A Bulletin correspondent writes from Manila
re “Gold in the Philippines”:—That there is gold in
Luzon, Mindanao, Oebu, and other islands of the Philip-
pine group has long been known, yet until recently its
location and extent have been more or less matters of
conjecture. However, the developments of the last few
months along this line have rendered its existence and
approximate locality no longer a matter of doubt. Since
the occupation of the islands by American troops pros-
pectors have been busily engaged in examination and
exploration, incited thereto by the stories of the natives
and the bits of ore which they have exhibited from time
to time in confirmation thereof. _ As these men were
mostly discharged soldiers and novices in the art of gold-
hunting, and as their prospecting was necessarily con-
fined to the immediate vicinity of the garrisoned towns
and camps, owing to the state of war existing in the
islands, no important discoveries were made, and though
some of the prospectors who had mining experience in
the U.S. stoutly asserted that there was every evidence
of gold in different parts of the country, no importance
was attached to their statements as being those of tyros.
But there were men here who desired to investigate those
reports for themselves, and several prospecting parties
were sent out from Manila in January for that purpose.
One of these parties, accompanied by an expert geologist,
went to Mindanao, another to Oebu, and two others into
the interior of Luzon. Owing to the hostility of the
natives, their investigations have been conducted under
the greatest difficulty, and with no little danger to life,
but the result has more than fulfilled their most opti-
mistic expectations. The expedition to Mindanao has
returned with beautiful specimens of gold ore and
quartz, and the prospectors report this island to be rich
in deposits of gold quartz in strata that may be developed
at a comparatively small cost, but the natives are very
hostile to the invasion of the white man. They state
that nothing can be done until peace is established or
there is sufficient interest in the matter to get together
large parties able to protect themselves, and they are
making their discoveries public in the hope of bringing
about this latter desideratum. One of the expeditions
that set out from Vigan into the interior of Luzon is re-
ported captured or massacred by the insurgents, evi-
dences of the fact having been discovered in the vicinity
of the intended field of operations. The other has just
returned to Manila bringing fine specimens of both gold
and quartz, also coal. These specimens come chiefly
from the Negrito mountain country, and Mr. G. A. Short,
the exoert who had this expedition in oharge, is very en-
thusiastic over the territory. He reports the discovery of
several fine mineral deposits, the most important being
that of a ledge of gold from which he exhibits
a piece of decomposed quartz rich in free gold.
If the deposit is as rich as the specimen, he has indeed
made a most important and valuable find, but the un-
settled condition of the country, the great difficulty in
procuring proper labor, and the entire lack of transporta-
tion, are seemingly insurmountable obstacles to its
development at present. Nevertheless, these daring pros-
pectors and other adventurous spirits are preparing to
push on into this section, abounding in heavy-wooded
mountains and rich valleys, and as soon as a number
sufficiently large for protection shall be secured, Baler,
the capital of this province (Principe) will be the scene of
active mining operations. Should the deposits in that
section hold out, and its present promise of gold-produc-
in',- territory be fulfilled, it will doubtless be developed
very rapidly. The streams of running water and
t ie luxurious groves of cocoanut-palms and banana-trees,
render the necessaries of life easy to procure, and
would make the province a miners’ paradise should they
be accompanied with plenty of the yellow metal.—
Frederick W. Nash.
• • • •
Something for coppe*mining co.’s : America’s
increasing consumption of copper is phenomenal. The
world’s yearly increase in the yield of copper is about
50 090 tons, and America needs it all for her new electrical
inventions—wear and tear of old electrical works ; brass,
into which copper largely enters, for all sorts of machinery
and locomotive gear and plant. The Republic’s increased
consumption in 1896 was 8690 tons ; in ’97, 94,000 tons ;
in ’9B, 109,000 tons ; in ’99, 159,000 tons.
• • •
Mining at Freiburg, the German place where
tlr-y train mining engineers and metallurgists, has become
more and more unprofitable (silver, lead and zinc are
principally sought), and the Govt., which owns and works
the mines, is not willing to increase the subvention.
Foreign ores keep the furnaces going ; but, as miners
leave or die, their places are not filled.


DAVID JONES & COMPANY
MERCERS, HATTERS, and GENERAL OUTFITTERS.
SOFT FRAME FELT.
7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
STRAW HATS.
2/9, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6.
AUSTRAL TROPICAL HELMETS— IO/6, 12/6.
«r IMPORTERS OF
HIGH-GRADE ENGLISH & AMERICAN
FELT HATS, NECK WEAR,
UMBRELLAS, etc., etc.
PARIS HAT.
21/-, 22/6, 25/-
HARD FELT HAT.
8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
George & Barrack
Streets,
SYDNEY.
HATS. HATS. HATS.
fdountcastle & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention. •
Write for
Catalnjue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
Several plague cases have occurred in and
about a Sydney brewery and “ the rat that ate the
malt ” is supposed to be at the bottom of the mis-
chief. Which recalls, that recently at. Bombay the
employes at a brewery were almost without
exception plague-smitten, whilst the hands in the
wine-and-spirit store on the same premises went
unscathed.
• * » •
Cats and dogs (animals which come into
specially close contact with rats) are not immune
from plague. Does anyone know of particular
canine or feline mortality at the present time ?
* * • *
Dr. Creed’s query as to what is going to
happen to plague patients being conveyed to the
Sydney North Head Quarantine in a launch
should an Easterly gale come along and raise a
huge beam sea is extremely pertinent. When a
“proper” Easterly or S.E. gale does blow
HIS WAXCELLENCY, ACTOR-GOVERNOR
MADDEN , C.J.
between Sydney Heads it raises as big and ugly a
sea as could be found the world over. One May
morning, years ago, little- 11 Dave,” who skippered
the Brighton, the P. J.S.S. Co’s biggest and most
powerful boat, got into such a sea, and it simply
killed him. He was in rather weak health, and
the shock of the danger through which he passed
sent him to the grave within a few months. As
suggested by Dr. Creed, alternative quarantine
accommodation should certainly be provided at
Shark Island.
* * • *
Writes Naturalist Bray, of Sydney :
There is a divided opinion, not only here, but in
European scientific circles, as to the flea peculiar to rats
communicating by inoculation or infection bubonic
plague to a human being. My opinion is dead against
the rat-flea biting man, but I am quite sure that if a
human being, charged with plague bacillus, had living
human fleas on or about his person at the time, and the
fleas, deserting his person, came into contact with another
human being, then positive infection through fleas would
be brought about.
Sydney has hitherto contemptuously
alluded to the Vic. capital as “Smellbourn9.”
The latter now retorts with “Stinkney.”
Owing to the plague-scare Melbourne is
gaining greatly in population at Sydney’s expense.
The departures by sea from Melb. to Sydney for
March were 1895, whilst the arrivals from Svdnev
totalled 3190. J
* * * *
“ M. Turlutu ” to The Bulletin :
The Brisbane Health authorities have dealt admirably
with the question of enforcing among the coastal shipping
the regulation against the importation of plague-infected
rats by sea. Substantial fines, smartly imposed, are the
only effective arguments in the matter. Without such
power on the part of the Health officers and their subor-
dinates the enforcement of the protective measures is
either a very labor of Hercules or an unmitigated farce,
and drastic legislation is badly required in the other pro-
vinces. The regulations drawn up by the Melb. authori-
ties, and adopted by the Plague Conference, carry no
penalty for infringement beyond that of taking the vessel
back to sea at once when ordered to do so by an
authorised officer. This is drastic enough from a ship-
ping point of view, but no Health officer in his sober
senses would think of enforcing it for, say, the leaving of
a gangway down at night, other conditions being satis-
factory. This is where a fine of five or ten pounds would
meet the case, and here Brisbane is ahead of the other
capitals. In addition, the intelligent policeman, who is
expected to keep his weather-eye open for breaches of
regulations, will naturally not interfere when no hope of
a conviction is sticking out. As he is usually the only
authorised person who is by way of being round the
wharves at night, such breaches may go uncorrected for
hours, giving time for all the rats in a vessel to present
the plague to their shore-going friends.
* • • *
Sydney isn’t the only filthy Australian
city. A couple of Melbourne suburbs—aristo-
cratic Brighton and Salubrious Essendon—have
charmingly original methods of enforcing the pay-
ment of the “pan” rate. In the latter, when a
householder gets into arrears the “ evening gentle-
man ” is instructed to ignore the establishment—
with results which may be left to the imagination.
Brighton’s plan is simply to remove the pan,
leaving the occupier to make “other arrange-
ments.”
* * * •
Professor Anderson Stuart, in his lecture
onthe Plague ” :
There must be a change in the franchise, so that aider-
men should not have to be elected solely by property-
owners, with a mandate to keep down the rates on pro-
perty. Improved sanitary administration must be insisted
upon. At one hotel in Sydney, poultry was until lately
kept on the roof, and five tons of poultry dirt had, since
the plague outbreak, been removed therefrom. (Sensa-
tion.)
Wanted, the name of that hotel.
» * * *
Attorney-General Wise lately announced
that a notice was to be published giving every
Sydney house-owner whose property was not con-
nected with the sewerage system 14 days notice in
which to connect, under penalty of a heavy fine,
as provided by law. It did not strike anyone that
these remiss property-owners should be fined first
and given notice afterwards: This proclamation
has not yet been issued. The numbers of premises
unconnected is so large and such a big percentage
of licensed plumbers has been retained by the
Government (whose own house has to be put in
order), that most of the male population of Sydney
would have to turn plumbers in order to get the
work finished in time.
* • * •
The half-dose of Yersin’s serum which
arrived lately in Sydney was interpreted by some
extra-keen Govt, officers to be a Pasteur Institute
retaliatory stab for the uncivilised treatment
which Pasteur’s representatives received from
N.S.W. Govt, some years ago. An illegible word
gave scope for these keen people. The half-dose
was merely a sample, however, and four quarts of
the serum are now on the way, with liberal quan-
tities to follow.
* * * *
The request made (in view of plague-
developments) by the Sydney Irish League that
the name of Wexford-street, one of the dirtiest and
most disreputable of local thoroughfares, be changed,
on the ground that the appellation involved “a
slight on Ireland,” roundaboutly recalls a story
told of Lord Palmerston, when British Prime
Minister. A deputation waited upon him from
Rugeley, a village which had got mto disrepute
through the much-advertised crime of Palmer, the
poisoner, asking that the name of the place be
changed. “Yes,” replied “Pam,” “call it
‘ Palmerston.’ ”
* • * *
There are some large possibilities about
the plague. The other day in Sydney, when seven
new cases were reported inside 24 hours, the man
in the street wore a gloomy, savage aspect and
talked earnestly of doing things to the Council.
If tbe epidemic increases and starts to snap up
Sydneyites at the rate of about 125 per day, we
shall see John Norton civic dictator, and the
bodies of the Councillors and the careless land-
lords and dirty tenants dangling by scores from
the lamp-posts and all other places whereon a
body may be hanged by the neck until dead. The
landlords of Wexford-street who demanded com-
pensation for being forcibly deprived of their
filth may yet get the compensation they deserve,
and if they are wise they will not draw public
attention to their personalities until the rat-
catchers and microbe-hunters have finished their
saving work. The prospect of John Norton being
civic dictator is not a cheerful one for the
bubonic landlord.
A DIPLOMATIST.
T RAMP: “ Have you change for sixpence, sir?”
GENTLEMAN : “ Yes; where is the sixpence?”
T RAMP: “ I haven’t one—but I thort if you had
change for sixpence you might have a copper or
two fer a poor man toot’s seen better days. All
gents I have asked for help said they hadn’t
any change.”
A Sydney medico asserts that for years
back rats in the London sewers have been infected
with bubonic bacilli—and yet Londoners are free
from plague.
* • * »
Mackenzie, M.L.A., threatens that when
Vic. Assembly resumes work he will move for an
enquiry into the case of the Bushman Contingenter
who was accused of physical unfitness for matri-
mony, and yet was told he might go to Africa if he
would previously “do his duty by the girl.” The
inconsistency of the two Ministerial explanations
offered in this queer case is the point which Mac.
proposes to attack.
* » * *
After the departure of the M.L. first con-
tingent, an artificial-limb-making firm promptly
circularised the relatives of the warriors
with a recommendation of their gruesome wares.
Business is business !
* * * •
The Australian letter-writing soldier is
•’ •iming quite a world-wide institution. Some
A SAFE BET .
ETHEL: “So pa didn’t think that you being an employe of his was a bar to our
engagement?”
BERT: “ Oh — er—no ! In fact, he said we might get married when he took me into
partnership.”
of the warrior scribes had penned screeds to
friends in Australia with a view to their ultimate
publication in the Evening Nooze, but instead,
the writers were captured by the Boers, and the
letters were published in the Boer paper, Volks-
stem. The Boer editor graciously suppressed the
names of the ..writers, setting an example which
Australian newspapers would, in many instances,
do well to follow—especially in those cases where
(vide that Maitland hero in Sydney E. News) the
scribe boasts of having pulled teeth as trophies
out of the mouths of the dead and derisively
stuck biscuits therein ; or where (as in that Mel-
bourne instance) the warrior forwards, as “a
souvenir,” in a frame, the whiskers he has cut
off a dead enemy !
» • • *
The other day, a well-known Melb. press-
man was walking along Victoria-parade when he
saw two men hurrying ahead of him and another
coming up in the rear. Presently a disturbance
took place, and, 10 minutes later, a man came up
and accused the scribe of having helped to assault
and rob him of £l7. At the police court, how-
ever, prosecutor admitted he had made a “terrible
mistake and followed the wrong man-.” Lucky
for that pressman that it wasn’t an assault-case
with a woman in it ! Wornen-prosecutors never
make a mistake. They’re always “ quite sure ! ”
Never did so many applicants for admis-
sion to N.S.W. police force present themselves as
since the contingenteering business began. Most
of the men who failed to get away with one or
other of the would-be S’African expeditions
struggled for the billet of bobby. Winch shows
that the “wave of magnificent patriotism” was
not all clean water.
« * * »
The last farewell to the Vic. Imperial
Contingent provided an extraordinary scene on
the pier, when, late in the day, the bold soldier
boys and the women—young and old, fat, lean,
and medium—mixed together for comfort and con-
dolences. Women wept ; some of them aloud and
with the fervor of the sentimental tyke stirred to
his depths by a full moon and a Salvation Harmy
band. This so wrought upon the feelings of a
number of the journeymen warriors that tears
sprang from their eyes, and they joined in the
weeping and wailing, so that couples hanging on
to each other and shedding tears down each
other’s backs were quite numerous about the
pier. One pretty girl was accosted by a
dolorous soldier who had damp cheeks and the
lackadaisical expression of an orphan calf.
“Won’t you kiss me?” he pleaded, heart-
brokenly. “ I have no one to see me off.” Then
he wept in good earnest. The good, kind girl
kissed him, and, overcome by the pathos of the
situation, promptly burst into a flood of tears,
and they leaned upon each other and mixed ’em.
The overflow of sentiment may be put down to the
beer, which was frequent and free all along the
route.
• • * *
Anyhow, the Jingo papers ought not to
blame Mrs. Jardine for her horsewhip-attack ou a
Vic. Cabinet Minister, seeing they had, probably,
most to do with turning the silly creature’s
thoughts that way. Two or three days before,
when it was cabled that Cape Premier Schreiner
had refused the Cape railway engineers further
leave at the front on the ground that they couldn’t
be spared, the papers stated that it was more
clear proof that Schreiner was a pro-Boer. And
when Watt had to do precisely the same thing as
Schreiner had done and for precisely the same
reason, what more natural than that the woman
should regard him as a pro-Boer, too ? It is on
evidence like this that some peoplo want to hang
or hoot Schreiner; but this much-forbearing
woman only whipped her man !
* * * *
“Melb.” ; The Austral Light, a Catholic
magazine “published by ecclesiastical authority,”
claims to have sold out three numbers this year.
This rush of sixpenny readers must be largely duo
to its publication of Archbishop Carr’s up-to-date
articles on the' mysteries of the womb, for the
instruction of young and old. Presumably the
Archbishop merely censors and signs the articles
after they have been written by the medical hand
which strikes at surgeon O’Hara; but, anyhow,
they are clean, cold, serviceable-protests against
medical interference with mankind in embryo.
“ British-
ah ” : I have
just read that
on one Riveri-
na station, in
a few years,
they killed
2,700,000 rab-
bits. Glory to
the benefac-
tors who intro-
duced rabbits,
hares, foxes,
thistles, Indi-
an minah
birds, and
sparrows! I
do so love to
hear some-
thing under a
million spar-
rows twitter-
ing, like little
jingling sleigh
bells, in the
nice, fresh
green English
trees by Melb.
T own Hall.
Then I go
home and find
all my cherries
eaten off the
trees in the
garden.
Never mind,
it is only my
beloved little
friends, with
the sympathe-
tic help of the
minahs, to re-
mind me of
happy days at
Simla. Eat
away! The
Acclimatisa-
tion Society
regrets it can-
not be glad-
dened with the
sight of a genuine old English mad dog.
* * * •
Vic. Minister of Posts Watt is a single
man, and has no wife to avenge the outrage
inflicted upon him by the rampant patriot in pet-
ticoats who attacked him with a whip the other
day, but the story of the Vic. North-Eastern
editor who was horsewhipped by a butcher’s big
wife a few years back should interest all ladies
who contemplate taking the whip-hand in politics.
The editor on this occasion had his head cut and
his eye injured, and the same afternoon his wife,
a wiry, nerveful little woman, waited for that
butcher’s large female, and swarmed all over her
like five angry cats. Ten seconds later the back-
hair of the bulky woman strewed the highway, and
she had one black eye, and her face looked as if it
had been branded nine times with a red-hot grid-
iron. Meanwhile the editor, being unaware that
his wife was vindicating the family honor in
public, had met the butcher himself in another
part of the town, and had gone for him bodilv
amongst his own meat, and had hammered him all
up before throwing him in the brine-tub. All this
cost the scribe a pound or two, but it was
generally conceded that he got spot value.
• * • *
The mysterious shooting affray at Grenfell,
in which bank-manager Wilkinson received a
bullet in his body, fired, it is presumed, by a
would-be bank robber, recalls the bushranging
incident of nearly 40 years ago, which gave Gren-
fell its name. Land Commissioner Grenfell, son
of the British Admiral Grenfell, was on the box-
seat of the mail-coach, on the road to Dubbo, with
the driver on his right hand. Another passenger
was inside. Suddenly two men, with faces
covered, but with holes for eyes, bailed up the
party and demanded the mails. The driver was


m
GRS
13 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane.
tar JUST OPENED ! 83T LARGE SHIPMENT
OF
PHOTO FRAMES^
In all Shapes Imd Sizes—from Bs.
We are BUYERS of AUSTRALIAN PEARLS in Large
or Small Parcels.
Watchmakers, Jewellers and
Silversmiths.
Bracing:!
Refreshing:!
Invigorating:!
ADD A LITTLE
Condy’s Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The effect is magical.
BEWARE OF COLONIAL IMITATIONS.
INSIST ON BUYINQ “ CONDY'S FLUID.
Tho following name and address should bo .
at foot of label :
CONDY & MITCHELL 65. GOSWELL ROAD. LONDON, ENGLAND
The Acetylene Gas Company ot Austra-
lasia, Ltd., is to be congratulated on its success
at the Royal Agricultural Show, having secured no
less than twenty-five first prizes for its exhibits,
consisting of automatic, non-automatic and port-
able generators, also buggy, miner’s, stevedore’s,
bandsmen’s, fireman’s, bicycle, table, hand and
other lamps for acetylene gas. Ordinary carriage-
lamps converted into acetylene lamps; correspond-
ence invited on all outdoor and indoor lighting.*
Arthur Griffith (Fellow Aust. Instit.
Patent Agents, and Member Patent Law Assoc.,
Washington, TJ.S.A.), 169 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Patents secured and Trade Marks registered
throughout the world. Tel. 2898.*
Birth notice in Auckland (M.L.) Star :
“Mrs. , of another little soldier of the
Queen.”
A POSER.
NEPHEW : “ Aunty, what animal do we get the sausage
from?”
about to comply, but Grenfell ordered him not to
do so, and, drawing his revolver, fired at one of
tho men. The bushranger returned the shot,
wounding Grenfell mortally. Meahwhile the in-
side passenger bolted down the road and conoealed
himself behind a tree. The ’rangers helped to lift
the brave Grenfell down, and carried away the
mailbags. When the coast was clear the scared
passenger crept from his hiding-place and proffered
assistance to the dying commissioner, but the
latter spurned the help. The bushrangers were
never discovered. N.S.W. Govt, made a money-
grant to Mrs. Grenfell and affixed his name to the
locality.
• * * *
“Agitator” Fleming, applying to Mayor
M'Eacharn for a permit to hold a May Day pro-
cession in Melbourne, dropped the irrelevant
remark that “some of the so-called pillars of the
Church have been in Pentridge.” Whereupon
haughty Mac. declined to hear any more blas-
phemy—such language, he said, was “utterly un-
called for and utterly untrue.” Now, considering
that Smalcom Donald Mao., with all his faults
and otherwise, has never been accused of playing
the snufflebustious saint, it is hard to understand
why he should have called Fleming a liar. Hypo-
critical criminality is a great fact. Some pillars
of the Church have been sent to Pentridge, and
more of them ought to have gone there. Mac.’s
snort in this matter was perhaps meant to suggest
that no high-toned felon is considered to go to
chokey in a low, vulgar way of speaking. In the
sense that a Queen of Spain can have no legs, a
pillar of the Church can’t be said to stand in the
dock.
* * * #
Three badly-needed institutions for the
establishment of which the voice of Sydney’s
civilised goes up daily—so far in vain : A lethal
chamber for derelict dogs. The sight of a peeler
brute bashing their brains out with an iron-bar or
strangling them with - a rope can be guaranteed to
inflict a month’s sickness on five out of every
seven beholders. And a lethal chamber can be
set up for £3OO. Second: A crematory for the
bodies of persons who die from bubonic plague or
other such diseases. The incineration of others
could be left to the will of the dying person or to the
friends. £3OOO would cover the cost of such a
crematory. Third : A real foundling institution
where no questions are asked. Exposure, murder,
death of mother and child are incidents of appal-
ling frequency. And £5OOO would start establish-
ment with a hopeful outlook.
* • * •
If, as believed by a majority of the Royal
Commission, Cresswell is really sane enough to
be set at liberty from Parramatta Asylum, the
objection of commissioner Meagher ought not to
stand in the way of the man’s release. Granting
that Cresswell is Cresswell, and not Roger Tich-
borne, and presuming that the persistent Mr.
Priestman wants to take him to England on the
strength of his (Priestman’s) delusion, why
shouldn’t the long incarcerated patient have a
chance to see the world again ? Priestman’s in-
tention re Cresswell is their business, not
Meagher’s.
• • • •
Bishop Thornton, who is preparing to leave
Ballarat because he feels that he can be of no further
use to the souls of the diocese, reckons that
Woman is making steady atonement for the in-
discretion of Eve, but for which, by the way, there
would not have been any additions to the sex.
Woman, O, Woman goes to church whilst man
stays at home and smokes, therefore she sets him
a noble example, says Bishop Thornton. Which
proves that Millinery is a mighty power for Sal-
vation. Very few wives and daughters are game
to set a noble example in a shabby bonnet or a
gem hat that has been malignantly sat upon by
the domestic atheist.
* * * *
S. Aus. —the province where women are
most things except fathers of families—has now
one female mail-driver. Part of her stage neces-
sitates night travelling. She has been kissed only
once, she says—or somebody says she says—and
then, alas ! the man was drunk.
A feature in John D. Spreckels’
new twin-screw 6000-ton steamers, now
being built by Cramps, of Philadelphia,
for the San Francisco-Sydney trade,
in which they will soon be running, is
that each state-room will be provided
with an electric fan. The European-
Australian mail steamers have not so
far fitted their sleeping-rooms with
fans, but the up-to-date traveller now
buys a fan of his own ashore, and gets
it connected with the electric current
in his cabin for the voyage—which,
so far as the atmosphere of the” apart-
ment is concerned, makes in the tropics
and when the ports are shut all the
difference between Sheol and Heaven.
* » »
Apropos that story of the late
Premier Parkes raising a loan to meet
a pressing financial difficulty, and
“blowing” the lot on an oil-painting
on the way home. A resident of a
Southern town was visited recently by
a necessitous family seeking assistance.
He gave liberally of cast-off clothing
of self and family, and some money to
buy food. A week later, an artistic
group greeted him from the local
photographer’s window—the necessi-
tous family arrayed in beatific smiles
and donated garments.
• * *
What strikes a Sydney visitor to
Melb. is the frequency with which he
is appealed to by well-dressed people
for the favor of a match in the public
streets, gardens, &c. Time was when
any fellow who wanted a smoke would
go to the nearest pub. for a refresher,
and light his pipe there ; but nowadays
the average matchless man (and few
Melbournians carry alight in the or-
dinary way) is too poor or too thrifty
to buy a drink for the mere sake of a
smoke.
Coincidence. Last week’s Australasian
had two oonseoutive birth announcements “ Key ”
and “Lock.”
• • • *
“ Thorold ” : Be the collection of stray
dogs for lethal purposes. In Melbourne, they
send out “dog’’-carts, which take in the casual
mongrel by virtue of authority. This is surely an
improvement on the Sydney game of giving 2s. fid.
a dog to promiscuous loafers for every animal
that may be enticed from respectable backyards
with the assistance of a lady dog.
THE OLD, OLD QUESTION.
Premier Lyne says he doesn't yet Know whether he will stand for the Federal Parliament, or stick to the provincial Assembly.
LYNEUS (to Old Scratch): “Tell me , friend, which is better—to reign in Hell or serve in Heaven?"
Beautiful satire, from a Sydney D.T.
correspondent:
Sir,—The Town Hall commemoration last Saturday was
a serious disappointment. There was no disorder what-
ever ! The undergraduates were not represented. The
speeches could be heard distinctly from beginning to
end ! Not a whistle, not a cat-call, not a disturbance of
any kind was heard to disturb the proceedings, and
annoy the audience ! Surely it was a misnomer to call
such a gathering a commemoration ? Would it not be
better for the managers, at their next gathering, to place
a large body of undergraduates, or, if they cannot be
spared, of other larrikins, in the centre of the hall, with
instructions to whistle, interrupt, sing rival songs, drown
the speeches, and generally to take possession of the
meeting? This would make the occasion really like a
commemoration, and as a protest for the right of dis-
order more consistent —and it might even happen that
some faint glimmering of the point of view of the Senate
and so many of the public might begin at last to dawn
on the promoters’ minds. —Yours, etc., J.
The “innocent till proved guilty” farce
once more ! ’Tother day a man arrested at Wagga
on warrant from Tasmania, was remanded to
Sydney to await the arrival of a boat to convey
him and his custodian to the Flyspeck, and al-
though only under remand, he was treated at Dar-
linghurst as though a convict, being put to work
at the delightful job of cleaning sanitary pans.
After much demur, he was allowed to have his
meals sent to him from an hotel, but the publican
omitting to send a knife or fork, he had to eat with
his fingers. At Easter also, when, through a
number of the warders being on holiday, the gaol
was short-handed, the prisoners were kept to their
cells—which practically meant solitary confine-
ment. It would be interesting to know how much
of this kind of solitary is endured at Darlinghurst ?
* * • *
For the second time in N.S. W. it has been
ruled that a wife may be a competent and com-
pellable witness against her husband. Two years
ago Chief-Justice Darley ruled that when the
charge is one of personal violence of the husband
against the wife, the wife is not alone competent
but may be compelled to testify against her hus-
band. Last weak at Dubbo a case involving the
same point came before Justice G. B. Simpson
who after much hesitation adopted the rule. He
did so, however, with so much mental uneasiness
that there is room for other Judges to take a
different course. Indeed, Judge Simpson threw
by anticipation the blame, if blame there be, on
the shoulders of his Chief.
* • • *
Yet another stray limb has turned up in
Melbourne, a skeleton leg (it is now explained
that certain medical students have been “practi-
cal-joking) having been found in Carlton on 3rd
inst. These scattered horrors have set up a terror
that had a picturesque result in South Melbourne,
the other day, when a woman with her hair in the
wind and the light of insanity in her eye, rushed
the local police-court with a hideous story about a
dead arm in her back-yard. The police visited
the place, and found an arm all right, but it
belonged to the woman next door, who was lying
slumbering against the fonce in an intense condi-
tion of beer, with her bare arm thrust through an
opening in the palings masked by a geranium-
bush.
• • • •
This comes to The Bulletin from Mel-
bourne :
At a send-off Riven to some suburban “ Bushmen" in
the local town-hall, a civic magnate produced a neat gilt
frame, containing, he proudly announced, a “ sooveneer”
sent home by one of the boys at the front; and amongst
the objects thus brought together was a handful of
grizzly-black hair which, the speaker stated, was
some of the whiskers of the first Boer that Private
So-and-So had shot. This miserable trophy (which, in
some respects, outdoes the teeth knocked out as
“ sooveneers ” from a dead Boer’s head by that historical
N.S. Wales warrior whose relatives proudly hand
over to the newspapers their kinsman’s self-written record
of his savagery), was held up for all present to admire,
and particularly for the edification of the departing
heroes who sat on the platform armed and in war-paint,
excepting the tomahawks and scalping-knives which
would have been so appropriate to the occasion.
Dear, kind Jingo friends, don’t you think that
while The Bulletin has the opportunity of print-
ing paragraphs of this sort, there is some reason
for its existence? By the way, what a lovely
opening is here seen for a ballad commemorating
the exploits of Private Smith, who knocked teeth
out of the heads of the dead Boers to hang on his
own watch-chain and to give to his dear, kind,
affectionate, soft-hearted mother and his best girl
as trophies of the chase; and the exploits of
Private Johnson, who cut off with a knife the
whiskers of Piet Smidt, of the 14th Popper Com-
mando, whom he had just bagged, with a view to
having them suitably framed and exhibited at a
Melbourne Jingo meeting for the encouragement
of other patriots-in-arms ! Apropos, what’s the
matter with scalping the Boers ? If the Austra-
lian warrior has taken to mutilating his dead
enemy, after the fashion of the African savage,
why not be artistic about it ? But, seriously,
isn’t it just about time that some one set systema-
tically to work to clip from the newspapers these
hideous records of deeds done by the criminals
who have managed to enlist with the Australian
contingents, and send them along for the informa-
tion of Lord Roberts ?
* * • •
Lieut. Dowling, of the First Australian
Horse, who was severely wounded and taken
prisoner while scouting—ne was shot in the head,
losing the sight of one eye; also, he had one
thumb shot off and got a bullet through the leg—
has returned to Australia, having been rescued
when Bloemfontein was taken. Mr. Dowling
modestly declines to talk of his own fighting ex-
periences, but says he got excellent treatment in
the Boer hospital, and “does not credit all the
statements as to Boer brutality, which he thinks
are highly colored. His experience, and that of
other British wounded who have had an oppor-
tunity of judging, is that, when the heat of the
fight is over, the Boers make little difference
between their own wounded and the enemy, and
officers are treated with consideration. Cases of
ill-usage, and even barbarity, may have occurred,
but they are not general.”
* * * *
Henceforth The Bulletin must look up
the “ religious ” papers regularly. The other day
it lighted upon one, the N.S.W. Banner, which,
resenting the proclamation of St. Patrick’s Day
as a holiday, yelled loudly for the recognition of
the Twelfth of July. Which is a natural-enough
consequence of the N.S.W. Ministry’s recent
attempt to ourry favor with Paddy. Then, further
down:—
Rumor has it that a son of one of the very largest
newspaper proprietors is engaged to a Sydney Roman
Catholic lady, and that the paper parents do not like to
contemplate the introduction of a she Romanist into the
family, since it might affect the profits of the paper. It
would be good policy to debar the young man from
partnership.
What a lovely oountry the old-Irish feud gangs
would like to make of Australia !
¥ ' * • •
S.M. Herald advt.
pi ENT. requires single room, with widow lady pre-
VT ferrod. Terms moderate, to Abstainer, Herald.
* • • •
N.S.W. Public Service Board’s laudable
efforts to extend promotion in the service lead
sometimes to unrehearsed effects. For instance,
last year an exam, was held for clerks in the lower
grades for several positions as “ emergency clerks,’
salary £l6O a year, whose services were to be
utilised by sending them round the country as re-
lieving officers. Amongst the successful candi-
dates was a probationer who had entered the ser-
vice fresh from school, and to whom examinations
were child’s play. This lad’s old “ boss ” was
transferred during the present plague outbreak to
the quarantine service, and, stupidly enough, the
youngster was sent to relieve him—to the dismay
of the branch, who were suddenly confronted with
the fact that their erstwhile junior had been
placed in charge of the whole room. Naturally
there was a rumpus, and the difficulty was
settled by placing the “emergency clerk” at his
old desk as junior, though he gets £l6O a year for
doing to-day what 12 months ago he drew about
£1 per week.


[Forecast for ai) Ipdefipite period.]
Froip MARK FOY’S OBSERVATORY,
OXFORP STREET.
BlisiQ'&s aod Clear” generally, tboGgb
“Storipy” at certaiQ tiipeS of tbc year.
Tb€ preset iodicatiop poiots to disturbance
“AOtOnjo FaSbioi>s.”
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
28 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
s
m
se,
IN THt
All Drapers Everywhere.
GLOBE TEAS li>vc wo E < BaL
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
My D«a» My„._ Srdney ' 4 1900 •
Emily Soldene our own returned Emily,
dressed m something black and white that looked
like two ro oes m one—held a kind of sub-let recep-
tion m one corner of the room. It will be inter-
esting to hear that she has dropped her Napoleon
hat for a Balaclava helmet. Emily’s history is
creeping up ; by 1920 or so she will probably have
adopted the costume sanctified by the present
gold-struggle in S. Africa. Which reminds me
that kharki was very much “out” at this fashion-
able gathering. Of course, kharki was invented
to make men invisible, so what woman could be
expected to wear it ? The lady who has worn the
Dutch bonnet and Quaker rig-out for so many
years had better change for once, or a charge of
disloyalty will hold good.
A well-known society lady, who looked like a
haughty, pale-green ghost, wore the plague-
catcher train, and somebody else managed to get
an artistic effect out of what looked like ironed-out
cabbages laid on smooth in layers. Shoulders are
unfashionable just now, and the woman who can
eliminate that part of her anatomy most success-
fully is bound to take the prize in the social cake-
walk. When the far-end of the shoulder slopes
halbway to the waist some degree of success is
assured.
There is no adjective resplendent enough to
describe Nance O’Neil’s dress in the Throne-Room
scene. Go and see it, and be awe-stricken by its
grandeur and its wearer’s physical strength
when you learn that there are 60 yards
of heavy cream satin in it, and the same
quantity _of lining, and three gross of gold
cord, besides an eighth of a mile of gold em-
broidery, whalebone—one whale’s supply (Queen
Bess made herself huge with padding and whale-
bone) and a load of jewels. Her collar, wired
out to a quarter-yard’s width, is real Maltese,
and the ruff inside is held together at the pleats
by tiny gold studs. Then there’s the train from
the shoulders; purple velvet it is, brocade-lined
and efrnine bordered, and the crown; yet Miss
O’Neil carries tb* lot as if it were a gossamer
robe and a halo;
In her red, very red hair Queen Elizabeth O’Neil
wears the reddest rose overgrown, or manufactured,
and two little white quills. If the royal Spitfire
ever looked or acted a tenth as well as Nance I
shall believe that the Essex person had ’em really
bad and was not pretending. By the wav though,
Elizabeth would never have endured those ver-
digris-green legs. Miss O’Neil is at her greatest
in this role. She is really King Elizabeth.
Towards the close of the corroboree a sudden,
inexplicable shrinkage took place in the assembly.
When everyone was wondering why the large hall
all at once looked so empty, as if half the people had
dropped through a trap-door, or something, a re-
lieved whisper went the rounds : “Oh ! no ; it’s
only Mr. Bernard Keenan gone home.” It is a
good thing to have the biggest man as well as the
largest organ under one roof, but Mr. Keenan
should contrive to depart in detachments. Con-
tingents of him might be sent away every now and
then ; but to lose the whole of him at once is too
much' of a shock.
This year’s Hospital Saturday was remarkable
for the number of portly matrons who rattled col-
lecting-boxes. The supply of girls lessened because
the day opened so unfavorably for fringes.
Mother, “the dear old thing,” in goloshes and
second-best bonnet, could ask for a mite, but Celia
“ would die first.” So, in many instances, mother
came instead of daughter. But when the rain,
mist and fog gave way to bright sunshine, Celia,
all in white, mystic, wonderful, hurried up, took
the box, remarked “I had to come because I knew
you’d be perfectly dead long ago,” smiled, thrust
it at a young man and several women, then warned
the “ corpse ” not to miss the next ’bus. It was the
day-long smile that left the collectors exhausted.
They could no more afford to discard it than they
could the money-boxes. Men contributed not so
much to the charity as to the smile, and no man,
except the scorching cyclist or the cold diplomatist
who took a fast cab and diligently read a paper
therein, might evade it for even a few moments.
They smiled in £4120.
I wish the Hospital authorities would have
another Saturday—say—six months hence and let
the collectors be men. There is no doubt in any
woman’s 'mind that a great gain to the charity
would result. Women would be reached—
thousands of women who never gave to a female
collector would drop a shilling into the man’s little
box because he had a becoming tie, or a deferential
way of raising the hat, or deep blue eyes, or a
cleft in his chin. The difficulty would be to get
the men. Men are so much shyer than women.
Collecting for a holy purpose must be hungry
work judging by the devastation wrought on free
rations supplied by certain restaurants and hotels.
Sacred chickens ! didn’t the Red Crossers stoke !
Boomanoomana, the “show” station of the
Riverine, is to have a mistress again after a long
wait. Mr. Alfred Hay, who marries Miss Rowe
presently, is a widower of many years’ standing.
All along the Murray the squatting families have
intermarried until now they pretty well form one
large clan. They, don’t love each other any the
better for the kinship, but a stranger amongst
them has to be careful how he abuses, say, a
M'Farland of Barooga to a Brown of Tuppal. By
the way, one of the younger Tuppal men has just
married a squatterina and so helped to keep the
pure merinoes and black-faced rams in the clan.
The prize-picture, carrying £l5O a-year for three
years and residence abroad, is on view at N.S.W.
National Gallery, on a visit from Melbourne.
Here it is, as the average person sees : A room in
(say) a 14s. a-week house in South Yarra. The
wall is sage-green, and there’s a dingy sofa and an
old red-and-hlack cushion. On the sofa, a middle-
aged woman sits reading a letter. A girl in a
brown frock, feet tied in a knot, and unkempt
hair falling in graceless negligence over her face,
bends near the reader. Another girl, in another
frock that “won’t show the dirt,” sits on
a stool and listens intently. A man in a grey suit,
and with iron-grey hair, leans his face on his hand
and his elbows on the back of the sofa. The re-
mainder of this remarkably plain family is a small
boy with a round, red, bullet head, a magenta
muzzle—it is a muzzle—and a greenish-yellow
blouse. I’ve seen the boy often. He’s the good
boy in the slum Sunday-school. His goodness
comes from dullness. Critics who really ought to
know are sounding the loud timbrel over this
picture. No doubt there’s nothing wrong with it
except the name, “Welcome News.” Why wel-
come ? None of the family look glad.
Concerning photographs. I have just seen for the
first time a fine rendering of a mist effect in the Blue
Mountains. You look down from the clear peaks
at what seems a chalk-white river in flood. It is
one of the noted Kerry photographs. There are
others in which the camera has caught Aus-
tralian sea and sky in some of their rarest moods.
They are the kind of pictures that when seen in
strange lands send tourists out here. Mr. Kerry, an
enthusiastic mountain-climber and lover of nature,
has of late produced some veritable photographic
gems.
“Red Pottage ” is the latest London rage among
novels. Picking it up the other day, I came across
a description of an Australian aide-de-camp that
is calculated to give some people fits. He was
an ill-dressed man with a crooked mouth , whose
trousers were too short for him. His tie was tied
with a waist to it —(Oh heavens!) — and he wan-
dered about at a fashionable London ‘at home’
asking ‘ Ought I to put both, mg gloves on, or shall I
carry one in my hand ?’ ” You will be glad to
hear that Mary Cholmondeley, the author of
Red Pottage,’ does not dare to ascribe this
brilliant personage to Sydney. She palms him
off on Melbourne, with a coolness tlv.t the
dapper Richard Neville, and that very to ly late
aide, the Earl of Shaftesbury, will particularly
appreciate.
If you want to be smart nowadays you must ask
your friends—your enemies will do—“ What key
is the ‘Absent-Minded Beggar’ written in?*’
They don’t know ; so you can answer yourself—
“ Kharki! ”
Otherwise, the war is no longer the only thing
talked of. In fact, I have just heard of a recent
patriot who quite turned dog on his friends’ high
sentiments. They were all talking together, and
the_ other men were voicing grand feelings, and
telling how they would all have gone themselves,
only for their wives and children, when the traitor
remarked callously—“ The reason I don’t go to
the war is that the smoke would give me asthma,
and the noise would give me suoh an awful head-
ache ! ”
As to the maxim that prefaces the book “After
Red Pottage comes the exceeding bitter cry,” the
origin of it was solved for a few of us at least, last
week, in a letter from the author herself to a girl-
admirer. It is biblical: “Esau said to Jacob
‘fegd me with that same red pottage.’” Later,
when the hairy man found that his brother had
palmed himself off on old flock-master Isaac as the
real Mackay, “he cried with a great and exceed-
ing bitter cry ” and spoke bad grammar about
being “ supplanted these two times.”
The Speak— lngram’s attempted literary back-
hander to Clement Shorter’s Sphere —has a por-
trait of Lady Penn Symons, the widow of
General Penn Symons, killed at Dundee. She
has a stronger, larger-featured, more masculine
face than that of her dead husband, and it does
not agree with the distressingly-juvenile tilt which
-the photographer gives it. Neither does the big
picture-hat and girlish undress harmonise with
the obvious age of the lady. It is printed that
she married a nice and very young man six weeks
after her husband’s death, whilst the Queen and
nation were weeping over her, and sending her
messages begging her not to die of grief, and ask-
ing her to give it a name—bigger pension ? Home
at Hampton Court—or what ? She chose the pen-
sion and a young subaltern.
Place —a North Shore line railway-carriage.
Man with an Australasian open at the page
containing Donald Macdonald’s portrait before
and after his return from the war. Draws his
wife’s attention to them. “ Look here, my dear,
this is one and the same man, yet what a total
change ! ” Lady looks interestedly and sums up :
“No, not quite a total change; he has the very
same speckled tie that he wore going away.” Yet
men say women are not accurate.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The Liedertafel was the first important musi-
cal event of the season, and the fashionable new
evening frocks were on show. A woman in fire-
red; silk in the front of the balcony looked as
though her upper dress would tumble down if she
shook herself ; it seemed only held up by a thread
ovepthe shoulders. The Melbourne Town Hall in
evening dress looks very fine, and the sheeny
shirts of the men are most creditable to the
Chinese population. The ladies’ choir all wore
white, but the Conservatorium girls in the orches-
tra wore colored frocks. A lady fiddler in tur-
quoise-blue satin took the eye.
“ Miss Grace Millar Ward, a young American
warbler, was the prime personal attraction at that
Liedertafel concert. She’ll do—quite young, quite
pretty, and quite an artist; there is room for her
t B j w^.ose native singers are mostly in
or them She looks like a girl out
■of Charles Dana, Gibson’s pictures, with a dis-
tinctively American style of charm. Her voice
isn't large, but it is sweet, and she singeth like an
angel. She even satisfies Prof. Marshall-Hall,
which is more than the ordinary run of even angels
can do.
“ Talking of dress at the Liedertafel affair, a
° a fringe established the fact
that Grace Ward’s skirt was cut on apron
lines, and the shawl-like swathing of her white
shoulders marked the American warbler as a
dainty new thing in platform style. Miss Marie
Kichardson craned a long neck as though reaching
for her tremolo contralto notes, and swung like a
lethargic pendulum in moments of forte.
Prof. Marshall-Hall, lankier and leaner than
ever, struck his baton sharply on the pulpit-like
rail when he saw the audience dribbling out of the
Hall ere the ‘ Mass in C ’ was half through
at the Liedertafel Concert. He leaned over to his
orchestra and muttered some original remarks
about ‘Philistines’until his disciples were all on
the grin from the first violin to the oboe. Then
he faced right-about-wheel and eyed the soulless
retreaters. Under the scorching frizzle of the
Crreat Musician’s contempt some snrank to nothing
and disappeared quick and lively. Others passed
out with a good-natured laugh, and a few girls
sauntered out with measured tread in utter con-
tempt for the despot’s artillery of glances. Two
or three times this sort of thing was repeated
before the last grand ‘Amen’ was trumpeted,
and it was always the girls who showed no con-
sciousness of their guilt. Woman’s inhumanity to
Art is quite candid.
To save time at the St. Vincent’s ball meeting
on Triday, Mayor S’Malcolm read over a list of
the old committee as a guide to the new. The
names called up strange memories. Some had
gone to the war, some ’Ome, some had vanished
from Naice visiting-lists, and so on. The smile-
some Mayor made a most distressful mistake in
one name—“ls Mrs. here? Is she here?
No! Will someone kindly let me know if
Mrs. will act on the executive?” Mean-
while several were shaking their heads and
making signs to the thoughtless man to desist
from his inquiries. He was too engaged to
notice such delicate hints, and at length someone
blurted out, ‘She’s dead, S’Malcolm" Then his
Worship sat down and gently kicked himself.
“Local Naicest are harmless creatures in the
mass. Anyone who docs play up a bit is made the
most of, as a rare pinch of leaven in the stodgy
lump of righteousness. Formerly a dashing
heiress was, rightfully or wrongfully, dished up
as sauce to every scandal. In due course she
married and steadied into a model matron, but to
this day shocked suburbanites firmly believe that
her six juvenile bridesmaids were chips of the old
block. Now a recent wedding deprives sensation-
lovers of a more modem tit-bit in the person of
the bridegroom, henceforward to pose as a heavy
husband and a serious fat-man. In his skittish
bachelor past the name of the Benedict of to-day
was constantly coupled by rumor with that of a
magnate’s pretty daughter. The latter’s hubby
took a hand in the game, and altogether things
were far from slow.
“ The first thing Minister ‘Billy ’ Watts’ female
assailant did after shaking a stick at him was to
run down Collins-street to the Argus office, and
breathlessly recite her story of daring to a cynical
sub-editor. All the reporters insist that the ‘lady’
was remarkably well-dressed. No matter how
well-dressed a woman may be she is always willing
to give her ears to appear in print.
A true story is told of a local suburban
matron, who, while life lasts, will put her best
foot forward. If you were cruel enough to dine
with her when she happened to have nothing in
stock but bread, tea, and a bone, she’d serve ’em
up with pomp and vanity and finger-glasses, and
impress you in spite of yourself. Recently her
most imposing acquaintances invited themselves
to lunch. Thanks to a run of wet washing-days,
there wasn t a scrap of table-linen available except
some new unbleached stuff, which wears so well
you know, and does for off-days till it washes
white. At first our heroine despaired when she
heard of the arrival of her critical friends. Then a
happy thoughtcame to her with healing in its wings.
She got out her brownish napery, fine and glossy
m spite of its complexion. Of the plebeian
double-red geraniums in her garden-plot, she
commandeered en masse. Her brunette serviettes
were set in helmet shapes. Brown bread and
tomatoes helped out the effect, and presently the
victrix was gaily initiating her guests into the de-
lights of a ‘khaki lunch.’ When the visitors
were gone, their hostess went into the laundry
and laughingly told her tale to Mrs. Soap-Suds
who pronounced it ‘not too bad.’ Next time the
washer-lady came she told her employer that since
they met the ‘plague-inspector’ had been ‘smell-
ing round her little place. When he got to root-
ing in the bed and says as how the blankets was
an awful color, I up and told him it was a khaki
bed. He grinned, and says, ‘ Wot yer givin’ us ? ’
but he stopped grizzling.
“ The evergreen L. L. Smith purposes a birth-
day hop at the Masonic Hall next Tuesday (15tli).
The cards also intimate, by the way, that the
spree _is to celebrate the anniversary of the
juvenile-Ancient’s marriage with a golden-haired
Mrs. L. L.
“Janet Lady and Miss Clarke start on their
twice-deferred visit to Sydney this week. The
dressy dowager has lately been so much at the
head and front of everything, from sewing-bees to
golf-teas, that Melbourne will be in a half-mourn-
ing state till she rustles into its midst again.
Also the weary Mayoress will soon be off again to
England to see her sons, returning in October.
“ A woman crowned with a bona-fide military
cap—brass buttons, gold braid, and all—cut the
most conspicuous figure aboard the troopship on
Bushmen’s Day. The cap was one of the little
things her Tommy left behind him, and to soften
its masculinity she tied a fashionable French veil
round the rim, and trimmed her complexion with
a brush.
“There were one or two troopship incidents
which provoked laughter and tears. A farmer
from ’wayback yelled hoarsely for ‘ Corporal Bill
Blankey ’ from one end of the pier to the other.
‘ Tell Corporal Bill, ’ he begged every flying figure
in khaki. ‘Wisha,’ pleaded a Biddy, ‘can’t yer
tell the Corporal av it his father’s calling. The
poor craither ! ” At length, incited by the pre-
parations for departure, he roared frantically, ‘A
sovereign for the bloke what fetches Corporal
Bill Blankey! ’ But the crowd surged and
hurrahed, the boys clambered up the masts, the
gangway was hauled up, and no one had earned
poor old dad’s piece of gold.
“ One of the officers was in a constant state of
calling herself away to a matter of duty from the
clinging embraces of his mother, who sobbed
pathetically the while. ‘ Please show the mater
over the boat,’ he begged a motherly soul, ‘and
keep her away. She has said good-bye fifty times
already. It puts me in a desperate funk. For
God’s sake keep her away. ’ One was glad to find
the warrior brave enough to admit that the
maternal grief could frighten him.
Beauteous Maud Jeffries is engaged to visit
Australia again, under Williamson’s management.
Her separation from Barrett is final. The stories
in English papers about Maud leaving Barrett
because she wished to visit her own country are
pure fiction. As a fact, Barrett ahd Jeffries had a
big quarrel in Melbourne before the Australian
tour finished, and were not ‘playing speaks’ for
the last few weeks of the run. She merely
remained with Barrett until the term of her
engagement finished, and then, each was glad to
be rid of the other.
“Miss Sallie Booth, the bright old spinster o'
What Happened to Jones.’ was onetime a
member of Fred. B. Norton’s company in England.
Norton nowadays plays the walking gentleman
canvasser for ads. in Melbourne, but thusfar Miss
Booth has not met her former manager. He is
waiting for a chance to take her unawares in the
street, so if the lady should feel a tap oil her
shoulder and hear somebody say ‘Sallie!’ in a
stage whisper she musn’t be surprised at the
apparition of an evergreen Fred with‘a lavishly
waxed moustache, and a flower-garden in his coat
Norton you see, is rather calculated to frighten
anybody who didn’t know he was coming.
At present, theatre-wraps with roomy sleeves
are prevalent. The smartest, for such occasions
affect glorified cloaks over simplified frocks of
sombre black. It won’t be our fault if another
Governor s wife goes ’Orne and remarks that lead-
ing colonials resemble rich British second-raters in
their tendency to over-dress at public entertain-
ments.
“ A recent bride’s trousseau included a theatre-
care entirely of white lace, beautified with gold
chiffon. I here was a hood drapery of the latter,
finishing in front, with long scarfs; big raised
rosfs m gold lisse sprinkled the yoke and skirt,
and flounces of flimsy yellow bordered the scrump-
tious garment all round.
During- the inquest on the body of a four-year-
old boy who was out in two at Armadale (Vic)
railway station recently, it was elicited that the
baby had been to school and was kept in after the
other pupils left—probably for not knowing his
differential calculus. After serving his sentence,
the tiny malefactor was making his way home
alone when a train came along and killed him.
VVhat a pity the train couldn’t be sent on to cut to
mincemeat the geniuses who devised an educational
system authorising the detention after school hours
of mites of four ! Without unduly stretohing the
law the jury might easily have found a verdict of
manslaughter.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL.
“The amazing paragraphs about prominent
Australians which find their way into ‘M.A.P.’
are credited to Agnes Murphy, the one-time
close-crop ed pen woman of Melb. Paunch. She
is now quite a feminine figure with a tendency to
smartness jn her upholstering, thanks to the in-
fluence of her chum, Ada Crossley. The imposing
contralto shares with Agnes Murphy and Aimee
Moore a charming flat in Kensington.
Hiese calm and dignified verses are from
the Pretoria Volksstem of Feb. 23rd. when things
were just on the turn against the Boers
COMPENSATION.
God sent a war, Men fought and died
As heroes fight, as heroes fall,
The women sobbed, the children cried,
The gain saemed little, after all;
So many homes were there that lost
A husband, lover, father, son,
Men thought it was not worth the cost,
The victory that Freemen won.
The shattered strength, the wasted life,
A desolated homestead’s woe,
The sorrow born of loss and strife,
Hot tears that fall for men laid low.
These are the witnesses of deeds
Which noble men have nobly done.
The sighs that rise, the heart that bleeds
Are consequent on victories won.
God sent a war. Men gave their lives
As Freemen give, when danger looms,
The fathers left their weeping wives
To save their country and their homes.
In direst peril, at their post,
These heroes faced the foenmn’s might,
Men thought it was not worth the cost
The victory won, in strife for right.
Not worth it! when the trumpet spoke,
When Freedom called, and Freemen died,
A nation’s sleeping soul awoke,
Passed through the fire, was purified.
For time to men and nations brings
This message, in a call to war—
Your life is vain, except some things
In life are worth the dying for.


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
Fop the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling and soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLAND’S
ESSENCE OF TYfIE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland's articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
Dr. M. MACKENZIE’S
THROAT LOZENGES
' Are being Imitated.
Be SURE that the address on the Label
is Leadenh all-st., London.
Sole Agent for
Australasia :
C. E. Newman
.
King-St., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
That glutton-for-work, Premier Seddon,
goes to Raratonga for a holiday, at the suggestion
of three slight recent attacks of paralysis.
The only bachelors in S.A. Assembly are
Walter Griffiths and W. J. Denny, the latter of
whom is the youngest member of the House.
Avery ugly-looking tombstone to the
memory of the Matthew Davies Bank in Mel-
bourne is erected in the latest edition of Haydn’s
“ Dictionary of Dates.”
S. Australia's first and only lady school-
inspector (Miss M‘Namara) died the other day,
after years of patient suffering. She had been
just a quarter-century in the service.
Arthur Patchett Martin, his old Aus-
tralian friends will regret to hear, has been very
ill in England—at death’s door, in fact, through a.
complication of troubles, including gout and
dropsy.
Somebody asked Minister “ Billy ” Watt
why he did not “take it out of” the husband of
the woman who struck him with a whip the other
day. “Great Scott!” replied Watt, “my heart
bleeds for the poor man.”
Rutter Clarke, the Adelaide share-broker
(son of A. E. Clarke, the big Melb. broker and old
E. Melb. cricketer) is credited with having the
biggest holding in Great Boulder shares—loo,ooo
standing in his name.
Kyneton district (Vic ) boasts a family of
Ryans— four sons, five daughters—averaging Gft.
2in. One daughter is Cft. 2in., and one son
towers up to 6ft. 9in. The latter is a rabbit-
trapper. He ought to be two.
The “ Colonel Rickards," of the Queens-
landers (mentioned in the anti-Jingo Canadian
paper as having prevented the butchery in cold
blood of a number of Boers) must be Colonel
Ricardo. Ricardo was none too popular in
Queensland at his departure but he evidently is
something* of a man and not a mere mercenary
manufacture of mince-meat.
Judge Casey (Vic.) who has announced
his retirement from the County Court bench
as a young man in America, was
clerk on a steamboat and warder
in a gaol. In ’54, in conjunction
with the late Angus Maokay,
ho bought Bkndigo Aovkr-
TI8KR and retained his in-
terest in the paper till ’71.
Casey flourished exceedingly as
Lands Minister in the Francis Ad-
ministration 25 years ago. To at-
tend his Lands Court was like
putting in an appearance before
the Mikado; so he became
known as “ King Casey.” In
Parliament he always regarded
himself as part of a great his-
torical picture, and had the sur-
roundings in keeping. David
Syme of Melb. Agk did not
want to have Graham Berry
made leader of the great
Liberal party in 1876.
Casey was the man of his
choice, but the public
would not take the King
at any price; thus David’s
hand was foi cad. Casey’s
Aqe influence was ap-
parent till the pre-
sent time in the
form of an occasion-
al appointment as
chairman of ji royal
commission In
1878 when was
Paris Exhibition
commission e r,
Fellows, Supreme
Court Judge, died.
Ci G. Duffy wired
to the commissioner, who
had only just reached the gay
capital, that if he returned at once
he would get the vacancy. The
suggestion was promptly obeyed,
but without result. It was Ser-
vice who made him County Court Judge
in 1884.
Mem. tor the superstitious : When
Gr. W. Steevens, S’african war correspon-
dent for London Daily Mail, reached Cap*
town, he wrote: “Table Mountain is more like
a coffin than a table.” He had struck the t .
country which was to provide him with his
shroud a few weeks later.
An Adelaide advfc. announces that “under
instructions from Lieut. Cook (who is leaving for
South Africa with the Imperial troops) there will
be submitted to auction Dutcher’s cart, sausage-
machine, saw, knives,” &c. Eternal fitness !
Robert Hoddle, Victoria’s first Surveyor-
Genoral, died at 90 years of age, abounding in hard
cash and landed property; Robert Russell, first
surveyor of Melbourne, died the other day at 93,
possessed of nothing but a life-lien on part of £1 a
week.
Chiei-J ustice Darley will have been 14
years on N.S.W. Bench in November next.
Chief-Justice Forbes died just under the 14 years,
Martin after holding the billet nearly 13 years,
and Dowling after seven years. Stephen resigned
after holding the position for 29 years.
William Williams, of Adelong (N.S.W.),
recently attended a dinner-party to celebrate his
hundredth birthday. It is the William Williamses,
the John Browns, and the Thomas Smiths who
become centenarians ; the Algernons and the
Augustuses mostly die of rickets, cetat 2.
w. S. Yiner, who has easily won the
chess championship of Westralia from solid old
players like Hilton and Siebenhaar, and moder-
ately brilliant ones of the younger generation like
Colebatch, is only 18. He is a Maitland (N.S.W.)
boy, but polished up his play in Sydney.
With regard to the much-disputed first
entry into Bloemfontein, Mr. H. Donohoe, the
London Daily Chronicle correspondent, cables,
in his despatch on the entry, that he and Capt.
Faucett, R.E., were the first to enter the town,
an honor also claimed by “Banjo” Paterson.
The latest about a Westralian J.P.—
formerly distinguished in the East for his glitter-
ing truthfulness—is that he has been helping to
run a profitable sly-grog shop and adjudicating on
persons in the same line of law-breaking. Also,
his sentences on these offenders were most exem-
plary.
Mr. James Ashton, M.L.A., denies that
he was an applicant for the vacant N.S.W. Pub-
lic Service Commissionership. The rumor to the
contrary probably grew out of the apparently un-
doubted fact that the Ministry some time ago
approached Mr. Ashton with a view to ascertain-
ing his views on the matter.
The three N.S. Wales Q.C.’s—Want,
Pilcher, and R. E. O’Connor —now prominent on
one side or the other of the Privy Council discus-
sion in Sydney, all read law in the Chambers of
Chief-Justice Darley. O'Connor is for the
Australian Higli Court, Want and Pilcher
against. The C.-J. is also against.
Justice G. B. Simpson at Maitland :
“ Some Crown prosecutors think only of convict-
ing their man, innocent or guilty, although pro-
fessionally they should be impartial.” His Honor
went on to tell about a prosecutor he appointed
when Attorney-General, who boasted of having
got five convictions out of six. “ I never employed
him again,” said His Honor.
Handsome Mat O’Shannassy, son of
John O’S., one-time a well-known figure on the
Vic. turf, died last week of brain-softening. He
A CONVERSATION—OVERHEARD.
“ The missus ses to me this mornin ’ —‘ you’ve bin
outer work for six months. Why don’t ye ’ elp
me with the manglin’ to earn yer crust,
George?’”
“ S’elp me—wot did you say, George?”
“ I wouldn’t stand that, so I ses, ‘though I ’ave no
work, I ain’t lorst me self-respect to do a
woman’s graft—not me.’ And it shut ’er up
proper, it did.”
was part owner of Chicago when that snowy
animal took the Caulfield Cup in ’BB, and as late
as ’97 Mat won the V.R.C. Bagot Handicap
with O’Trigger. A few months later he became
practically dead to the world.
A son of Chief-Justice Martin, Mr. George
Martin, was admitted to N.S.W. Bar last week.
With the exception of Darley, C.J., all N.S.W.
Chiefs have presented sons to the local Bar—
Forbes, Dowling, Stephen, Martin, sons of the
first two subsequently attaining seats on the Dis-
trict Court Bench, and a son of the third be-
coming Supreme Court Judge.
When king-of-the-ring “Joe” Thompson
was travelling once from Hobart to Launceston he
amused himself at “nap” with a lot of other
sports, but at Jerusalem a policeman spotted the
“ school ” and took their names, with the result
that all were fined. “ Hard lines,”- quoth Joe to
the presiding magistrate, “when a Jew isn’t
allowed to play cards at Jerusalem l ”
That well-known teetotal identity, George
Lucas (he was the son of a publican, and was bom
in a Sydney public-house), who died the other
day, aged 87, was at one time so like the late
Henry Parkes that he was known as “Parkes’s
Double.” He was the convener of _the,first anti-
transportation meeting held in Sydney, and, as a
builder, was the first man to employ slates as
roofing material in Sydney. Also, he was one of
Parkes’s earliest political supporters.
“ Swanston ” : Re Surgeon (not Dr.)
Henry O’Hara as a “sport.” He was one of a
little syndicate who won £BO,OOO or so over
Ben Bolt’s Caulfield Cup. Long afterwards,
a passing allusion was made to the fact in the
weekly Bohemia, and O’Hara sent a polite
note to the managing director asking him to
call. The then managing director was a short,
sheeny, masher person, quite new to journal-
istic management, and was hugely flattered at
receiving O’Hara’s invite. The big surgeon
proved himself a brisk entertainer that day.
The managing masher came back to the
office in a violent, chalky tremble. His size
alone, he said, had saved him from being
carved and eaten. Mr. O’Hara had long ago
given up betting and would stand no reference
to himself as a plunger or a punter. He
was in an awful, rage and would choose his
own time to come down and horse-whip the
staff. The office was free of the manager
for some time, but the staff waited im-
patiently for the massive and masterful
O’Hara. He never came, and certain defen-
sive and offensive “preparations” are now
trophies in the possession of a few.
Charles Porter, most sanguine and
pluckiest of prospectors and by no means the
unluckiest, died the other day in Kalgoorlie
Hospital as poor as the poorest of ’em. Por-
ter’s biggest “punch” was the discovery of
Tarrawmgee flux quarries, near Broken Hill;
if he had been built differently that would
have lasted him for the rest of his life. But,
in that case, he wouldn’t have been a pros-
pector.
It is true about the doom of Peacock’s
laugh. At a recent A.N.A. social function at
which Peacock was present, a man sang a laughing
song, the chorus of which was all “ha-ha-ha”
business, but the legislator was the only man in the
room who did not laugh at the song. His deter-
mination to kill that laugh and make a serious
reputation for himself will probably make him a
morose, young-old man, upon whose tomb will
some day be inscribed, “He never laughed again.”
Mr. C. E. Pilcher, Q.C., who was asked
to convene the meeting of N.S.W. barristers last
week to wire Chamberlain to maintain the Privy
Council, is senior practising barrister at present
in N.S.W. He was called in 1807. Salomons
was called in 1801, but is at present abroad. G.
B. Barton was called earlier still (in 1859), but
doesn’t practise. Other old stagers are C. B.
Stephen, 1870; Edmund Barton, 1871; J. H.
Want, 1809; G. H. Reid, 1879; and R. E.
O’Connor, 1870.
That celebrated artist, Mortimer Menpes,
once of Adelaide, has gone to the seat of war.
Years ago, in a Paris garret, he and his jolly little
wife often came perilously near starvation.
One day there’d been not much breakfast
to speak of, and the pet monkey was as
hungry as they were, and more ad-
venturous ; so he climbed down
the spouting, and in at anopen
window below, where a grand
meal had been set out in
honor of a wedding. • He ate
what pleased him best, and
returned munching an apple.
Mortimer was struck with a
brilliant idea ; he lowered the
monkey by a string, let him re-
enter the window, and then
hauled him up again. The mon-
key was clutching a cake. Lowered
again, he brought up a ham. Again,
and he carried bon-bons. Again, and he
had a chicken. The Menpes had an
excellent lunch, and in the afternoon sent
a dainty sketch as a gift to the bride, she and
her friends never being able to
discover who had made havoc
of the table. The Mystery of
the Rue Morgue—revised edi-
tion.
Borchgrevink, locator of the
South Magnetic Pole, is in politics
an enthusiastic Socialist of the out-and-out
order. His wayward life has thrown him
among all sorts of people, and he professes
to find among all about the same kind
of good and evil. He went through hard
times in Queensland and N.S.W. as the
typical knockabout. He tramped for work,
and was glad of a job at tailing cattle or
felling trees. In Govt, employ he enjoyed
himself, but he was a man of spells and fell
out of Government service as suddenly as he
Jumped in. Bibbs rooted him out of N.S.W.
Forestry Department. Borohgrevink at one time
thought of taking his wife with him to the
Soutfi Pole, and the lady was similarly in-
clined, but counsels, probably better, pre-
vailed.
Of the members of N.S.W. Leg. Council
(partly elective, partly nominee) who voted on the
second reading of the N.S.W. Constitution Bill in
1853, not one now lives. Mr. Merewether, who
died in England a month or two ago, was the last
survivor. The Bill was debated with as much
obstinacy and acrimony as the present Common-
wealth Bill, but on this second reading was earned
by 33 votes to 8.
There is but one hope for Sydney City
Corporation, how demoralised and bullied by
members who publicly call each other “ blasted
liars’’and allude to each other’s “blanky hair,”
and so on. That hope consists in the aesthetic in-
fluence of the cultured and nicely-barbered Aider-
man Waterhouse, who must suffer agony unspeak-
able in his brave efforts to stem the tide of objur-
gation and blasphemy.
Died last week two old Melbourne city
identities—George Withers, local head of theP.
and O. Cos., and Frank Grey Smith, manager oi
the National Bank. The clean cut Napoleonic
face of Mr. Smith was seen around town only a
few hours before his death, which happened on
the day previous to the Bank’s meeting. “ Merry”
May is always a funereal month at this end of the
world. Men fall with the leaves.
“ All in a life-time.” Woods, newest of
Westralian goldfields police-inspectors, Inis already
served in the Scots Greys, the Irish constabulary,
with the Northerners in the U.S. Civil War (he
retired from the service with the rank of major),
and in the Canadian mounted police; just missed
the Maori war; and has since been in the Cape
mounted police, the second Boer war, the N.S.W.
artillery, and the Westralian police.
Queen Victoria’s recent ennoblement of
the Mayor of Cork is a reminder that the first
titled convict transported to Botany Bay, just on
a hundred years ago, was Sheriff and, for a time,
Mayor of Cork. Sir Henry Brown Hayes, the
worthy in question, was sentenced to be hanged
for the abduction of a Quakeress, but the sentence
was commuted to transportation. He was par-
doned twelve years later. Vaucluse, his property
at South Head, Sydney, passed to the Went-
worths, and is now for sale. Hayes returned to
Ireland in 1812.
HONEYMOONING.
H E: “ We are quiet and secluded, and enjoy the
mono — ee — mon. I can’t think of the word I
want. Mono ”
SHE: “Monotony?”
HE: “Certainly NOT. No. Monopoly! Enjoy
the monopoly of each other. Monotony, indeed!”
S HE: “ Same thiny !”
A conspicuously fatheaded Melb. City
magnate, a frantic advocate of “ law’n order,”
hastened to leave his card with Mrs. Jardine, the
notoriety-hunting female who tried to cowhide
Minister Watt, immediately he hoard of her
action. The card was inserted with the fat one’s
compliments and patriotic snorts of admiration.
Fat man’s respect for law’n order is only his own
skin deep.
The octogenarian James Bonwick,
F.R.G.S., a candidate for the clerical vacancy in
the N.S.W. Agent-General's office at London, has
in his possession many records concerning the
oldest inhabitants of the Australian mother-pro-
vince. Some 30 years ago he thought the publica-
tion of these documents would lie interesting, but
those concerned did not agroe with him and
promptly suppressed his well-meant intentions.
Warden Finnerty, just transferred from
Coolgardie to Kalgoorlie, has probably had the
recommendation of more big milling leases for
refusal or granting than any other living man.
He was at Southern Cross when Coolgardie was
discovered; he received from Bayley and Ford
their first application in ’92. And, after dealing
with the Coolgardie leases, it was into his hands
that the applications for the now-famous Kal-
goorlie group of leases were put. When at
Southern Cross his district spread over almost
half of \ v’estralia.
“ T.D.” : There is a move to shove up
Acting-Judge Johnston to a permanent place on
Vic. bench. Mr. Johnston is apparently a most
conscientious gentleman, and therein differs con-
siderably from some other Judges, but were all as
vacillating we would have to salary double the
number. Mr. J. recently took three days to hear
argument in a case that any other County Court
Judge would settle in two hours, and after four
days he is still wrestling with a matter which that
irascible but sound lawyer, Hamilton, would have
put through in half a day. Q-C. Walsh got himself
into all-round disfavor by just the same irresolu-
tion.
Even if fever had not intervened, Melb.
Herald war-correspondent Majah lteay would
have returned from South Africa, for the simple
reason that he found he could not get to the front.
Only the correspondents of important dailies re-
ceived permission to accompany Rolierts. Reay
worked his influence with Methuen (whom he met
in London at the Jubilee) for all it was worth,
but, before his illness, was doubtful whether he
would be able to secure a permit. Reay returns
as a war-correspondent who has never seen a battle.
He has seen little back-fence skirmishes, but no
important engagement. The luck was hard,
because Reay works hard.
A PERTINENT QUESTION.
Why drink unknown brands of whisky of doubt-
ful quality when the “D.C.L.” Scotch (Black
Bottle) can be relied on as a real Highland
Whisky, thorough matured, and of guaranteed
uniformity ?*
At the Royal Agricultural Society’s show
the wood-chopping contest was a very interesting
feature. The society’s prize-money of £5O was
augmented by a special prize of £lO 10s. pre-
sented by Messrs. M. Moss and Co., of Wynyard-
lane, on behalf of Collins and Co., the famous
axe, pick, and tool makers. J. W. Heckenberg,
the winner of the first and special prizes, used a
Collins axe, and has written in the following
terms: “This is to certify that I used a Collins
axe in the chopping contest in Royal Agricultural
Society’s show. I have also used Collins’s brand
of axes for the last fifteen years in cutting all
kinds of hardwood, and find them to be the most
reliable brand of axes in the market.”.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
The NATIONAL DRINK of AUSTRALASIA.
It possesses TONIC properties that healthfully stimulate without
exciting.
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
WATSON’S WHISKY
Aboriginalities.
Plenty of the Bushmen, who are bushmen,
and who reckon they can shoot out back, made a
wretched show m the shooting tests. But that is
the common experience of men fresh at coastal
■y, nt nf rw t r° ° ie n r light and the sapless
an of Centraka. Broken Hill, where rifle-shooting
is popular, often sends teams away ; but once out
fjheir own atmosphere they invariably fail,
especially at the long ranges.
* * * »
At Dunedin, M.L., the horse-buyer for
the local contingent, noticing a really good horse
in possession of a Maori, edged up for a deaL
Good-looking horse that.” The Maori looked
sorrowfuUy at his prad and said-“ Good horse
but not lookee well. “ Nonsense ! why he’s in
top condition. I'll give you £l5 for him.” The
Maori took the money and handed over the -horse
“ utteni W tll ! 10 “Not lookee well—not
!° oke< r J eD - When the dealer got to camp he
mounted one of Ins men for the hurdle jump, but
though the horse showed beautiful action he
blundered heels over head at the hurdle. Then
the dealer hunted up the Maori who resolutely
sait5 ai t- he’s as blind as a fence ! ”
said'the Maori Wel1 ’ 1 ‘ ell y °" h °
* * * .
Harry Stockdale writes re rats :
ha ? stran = e experiences—not of plague-rats—
but of a plague of rats. About ’B2 the Cooper was
wte^ Cham - Ultltude of these rodents that took six
v eeks to pass a, given point, the procession being several
miles broad and about a dozen miles long ! They devoured
everything edible that lay in their path ; the only spot
escaped being Nappa-meerl station garden, whfch
was defended by a thick border of prickly roley-polev
ogs and cats, after killing until they were weary, bad to
lie down and let the rats run over them. The aboriginals
ate Their filfTh 'f l,g £ ted - slaughtered, roasted and
Th„c ’ th 1 s f pt ’ and a woke to repeat the i>or<m
Those lats were good eating, the flesh being white and
whither°tW Cken f in flavor - w here they came from, or
T t! u-T y . t v n - t ’ ?? one seemed to know, but that they
had a distinct object in view was certain y
*
“S. the W.” : Be things bubonic. Are
there no rat-catchers in Australia ? Surely, when
1 And a lace-maker, a templater, and an Italian
warehouseman m one rabbit camp, I can get some
latcatchers? I remember how in my youth we
used to hail the yearly appearance of the r.c. with
his dogs and traps. Also the mole-catchers. I’ll
guarantee that if my mate and I had lived a fort-
night m bussex-street we’d have got every rat
within our beat. In Bourke-street, Melbourne, I
saw rats behind a bar, almost running over a dog
and cat. Ihe barmaid said they were used to them
—and so was she !
A.E.G. : Some of our old dairy-farmers
smiled a lot when they read what some eminent
doctor said about rat-fleas not biting humans.
'me of em showed me a leg which looked
>re like a case of leprosy than anything
THE “ COMBINATION ” KITCHEN—VIDE PLAGUE REPOR ..
MR. WAHBACK (down for the Show, and staying at the Coffee Palace) :
“ Would ye mind showing me where the kitchen is?”
HOUSEMAID (a little curious): “ What do you want the kitchen for?”
MR. WAYBACK: “ Well, yer see, I'd like to give mesel' a real good
sloosh!"
. rp , , ,
I\ se ' .i 11 ? 6 blte of the local flea is worse
than that, of the Mmnamurra sandfly, and
he can raise a lump bigger than himself The
rat-flea is very small, and of a reddish ’ color.
Usually, he doesn’t bite when the man is look inn
„ , . *
“ S W ”• The Narandern rNT Q W \ n i
of • . : , W^method
of dog-killing is strangulation by the two heaviest
policemen, one at each end of a rope. I fancy
they ve knocked it off now. It was an edifying
sight to see the tug of war-dog m an open allot-
merit. The present mayor had a fine St. Bernard
executed, whilst he was having a drink. He
was not mayor then, however.
* * , ;
sonally) brutal treatment of gins and blfck-
fWwv, the C , olomal Secretary appears to
ttnn k the charges have some foundation. Un-
fortunate black women are, it is stated, frequently
andcuffed to trees and hided by black troopers.
The employment of black troopers to keep in
aborigines of Queensland or of any other
S?!l 9 !A UStr 1 alia 15 ever risk y. and should only be
permitted where every move of the employed is
under the eye of a responsible white man.
(®-» 14/4/’00) : Yes ; the Aus-
trahan porcupine” lays eggs—generally two,
which are hatched m the female’s pouch ; and the
young, like those of the platypus, are fed by a
milky substance exuded from certain glands into
their mouths. The young remain in the pouch
until they are a fair age, which accounts for their
being so seldom seen.
“ Stalky " : Re “ O.P.’s ” enquiry if the
porcupine ant-eater lays eggs. Shade of King
pilly !—no. The young one (only one at a birth)
is born m the ordinary way, and is fledged with
soit quills, like young galah’s feathers. It is
carried in the mother’s pouch until the quills get
too hard for comfort, and derives nourishment
irom two teats within that receptacle.
• * • •
“R.W.S. Australians might take a
point from the Boers as regards cow-dung-fuel,
which the latter use in the form of hard, com-
pressed blocks. Most cockies would sooner fell a
good tree than trouble about collecting the dung,
which burns well and gives as much heat as decent
coal.
* * * •
A correspondent wants to know how fast
the emu can run, and what is the extreme height
jumpable by a kangaroo ?
• • « •
“ Wat Tell ”: Quite a number of the
members of the families concerned in a recently-
tried gross case of criminal assault upon a child of
tender years present good subjects for psycho-
logical study. Immorality and crime, combined
with remarkable cunning, seem to be their chief
characteristics. The Anglican clergyman of the
district did his best (in vain) to raise their moral
status. Some years ago, one of the connection
(then living in a different district) was returning
from shooting, and, coming across a Chinaman,
deliberately shot him dead. Returning to camp
immediately he poured water into the rifle, so
that, when the police examined it next day, it was
rusty and seemed not to have been used for a con-
siderable time. Some months later a mate gave
information which led to the man’s conviction, but
he escaped with a short term of imprisonment.
When asked why ho shot the Chinaman, he replied,
“ I wanted to see the jump 1”
* • • •
“Ston” : An aboriginal tells me that ’roos
and wallaroos live to4oand 50 years. lam doubtful,
and should like to hear from any Bulletin reader
who can pronounce.
“R.S.”: He the
breeding-grounds of the
ibis (“A.M.,” B„ 7/4/’00).
Between the Banks Sta-
tion and Tarwong is a
patch of lignum (on the
banks of the Lachlan)
locally known as the “ ibis
clump.” Here, between
Aug. and Dec., I have
seen ibis in tens of thou-
sands. 1 have seen as
many as 15 nests on one
bush—average number of
eggs to a nest about 90.
The birds generally choose
a spot where the water is
deepest round the lignum.
Four of us wading waist-
deep with a gin-case each,
tilled the lot within 20
yards. The eggs are about
the size of small hen
eggs, bluish in color, and
equal to any fowl’s egg
for eating. The young
keep to the lignum till
they are able to take
wing. Both male and
female take their turn
hatching.
“ N.Q.” : Re iron or
steel speck in eve (B
17/3/’00). In many cases
the speck is not getatable
by knife-point or fingers
If so, the following is a
certainty. Take 1 gr.
iodine, lOgr. iodide of
potassium, add a little
rose-water, and drop into
die eye. Oxidation of
the metal takes place in
a few minutes, a soluble
iodide of iron is formed
and runs out harmlessly.
Any ordinary or sugar-
mill chemist will supply
the ingredients. Have
known a cure effected in
10 min. after six hours’
agony, aggravated by tinkering,
* * ,
u T >- T *
(B S)IS!X' Blld l 1,1 answer to “ W.H.F.”
21 / 4 / °0) re snake and iguana fights. The
iguana attacks the snake to make a meal of him.
4 01 , lce ca ™ e upon a large iguana wit!) a 4ft. black
? nake half-swallowed. While swallowing, the
iguana kept jerking the snake rapidly from side
to side, to keep it from turning to strife? and
when the head was reached the iguana chewed it
off and left it—no doubt aware of the fact that a
snake-head is bad medicine,
•
* *
Drunk s luck. A man fell down a 60ft.
he got iSto the fllepfa??!” 1167 ’ W
“PLOUGHING."
“ Take your wives on the land, young men.” A sketch on
a Western farm.
“ 5.C.0.J.” (address, Cameron Downs, via
Hughenden) writes:—
I am a kangaroo-shooter, and I would be very thankful
if you could tell me if there is a good market for skins in
America, and where. Oould you possibly quote on
average price there ?
The world’s chief kangaroo-skin market is in
America. Perhaps some reader will give our cor-
respondent details.
* * » *
“Trotter”: In the Boggabri district I
once met a yellow woman on horseback, carrying
a rifle, and a baby. For my delectation she hit a
bottle at 50 yards while mounted. Yellow boys
and girls are great shots in these parts, and make
a good thing out of the n ; ruble wallaby.
* * * •
The record tiger-snake (over 9ft.) was
recently killed in Port Lincoln district, S.A.
♦ * • m
“V.” : At Broudmount, Central Q., one
very dry season, the animals and herds, as far as I
could judge, adapted themselves to drinking salt-
water. Kangaroos and wallabies left their tracks
in the mud right down to the water’s edge; native
bears were, not uncommonly, perched in low man-
groves; and scrub-turkeys were also in the habit
of making excursions into the mangroves. If
these creatures went not for a drink, what were
they after ?
• * • *
“ Benalla ” : Any aboriginaliar eve
met a teetotal swaggie ? Have been dis-
pensing strong waters for the past 18 months at a
pub where swaggies are calling every day, and I
haven’t yet found one who would refuse a Benalla
beer.
• +
Editor Bulletin. —Be preservation of
telegraph - poles from ravages of white ants
(“N.Q.,”8., 7/4/’00). Has boiling creosote been
tried ? I have seen hop-poles stacked on end in
an iron tank, with about 2ft. depth of creosote
poured in and boiled. All the sap then exudes
from the upper ends. This is to preserve against
weather; but possibly telegraph-, olesthus treated
to a greater depth might be white-ant proof.—
C. P.
* • *
More Chinese philosopher. On the West
Coast (M.L.), a Chow working in a gold-mine
tunnel, and wearing, as is customary in wet
ground, gum-boots, accidentally drove his pick an
inch or so into his leg. .Tolin calmly surveyed
the stream of blood for' some time before ho
observed, disgustedly, “ Bloke ’um gum-boot ! ”
* *',<*. m
“80-peep” : Can any reader explain the
purpose of the circular mounds built by the lyre-
bird ? Have often seen the bird dancing and
whistling on the mound, which is generally
situated in a dense patch of cat-head or bracken
fern, and is kept scrupulously clean ; not even a
leaf is to be found on it after the male bird ha-;
paid his daily visit. Have never seen the female
on or near the mound. Is the lyre-bird an
idolater and this mound his joss?
“ R.W.S.” : Having once watched some
aboriginals make a fire by friction of two sticks
(after about an hour’s work), I had a try myself
for three hours, without result. Never’knew a
white to master the art. Can anyone explain ?
* * * *
<l Xerxes ’: Some time ago a man from
Sydney was up the Western line and went shoot-
ing. His friends directed him to where they
thought he should get some ducks. “Plenty gil-
gais,” they said. He returned gameless. “ I saw
a few ducks,” he said, “ but they were too wild
and, anyhow, I didn’t want them; I wanted to
get a shot at them gilgais, but I couldn’t see one.”
And now, who can tell us what makes gilgai-
holes ?
* * * «
“Mutton Bird”: Not generally known
that emus can swim. During last dry winter on
the Barwon, a mob of 13 would often be found in
station horse-paddock, and on being chased would
rush to the river and swim across without difficulty.
In some places “ out-back,
during the unearthing of blacks re-
mains, other things come to light as
well as blacks. Among them are
curious stones sugar-loaf-shaped,
about Ift. long and from 2 to 3m.
in diam. at the base. These have
been smoothed by friction, and
around them are notches arranged in
various ways ; some radiating from a
centre, like a star ; others placed one
above the other, as in the old Celtic
stone-writings. These marks are
probably records, and the stones
themselves are said to have been used
as “rain-makers” in time of drought.
They are evidently of considerable
antiquity, as within the memory of
the oldest blacks conical pieces of
wood were alone used for this purpose.
* • •
Dear Bulletin. “ Eller’s ”
pumpkin-turkey yarn (8., 17/3/’oo)is
a variant of an old yarn about a new-
chum Irishman, who having been told
pumpkins were mare’s eggs, stole one,
and was carrying it home. Crossing
a hill he dropped it and it rolled
down against a log and burst, where-
upon a wallaby jumped up from the
other side and made off. “ Hurroo !”
cried Pat, “ the foal’s hatched, an’,
be jabers, he’s a racer ! ” —Wkrkimee.
[The original Irish yarn, we are told,
was about a jar of whisky and a hare.
Nothing new under the sun.— Ed. B.j
• * *
“ Wil.” : Have often seen limbs
of box-trees trees minus bark for a
couple of feet long, and in some cases
have seen big box-trees stripped of
half their bark above the trunk,
though none had been removed from
any of a clump of similar trees surrounding the
wrecked one. Have been told that this is the
work of the galah. Any reader confirm or con-
tradict ?
• • • •
“Tassy”: “Flabby P.” (B. 17/3/’00)
possibly refers to what is known in Tasmania as
the “fern tick.” Its other Elyspeck name is
unprintable. It is seldom larger than a pin’s
head, and is generally to be found on “cat’s-head”
ferns. It burrows under the skin, but only causes
an slight swelling for a few days.
Massage is not of such recent origin as
some people think. When old King Thakombau,
of Fiji, was suffering from too big a dinner (half
a pig, several pullets, and a bucket of yams), he
used to order six or seven little children to run up
and down his stomach while he lay on his back
grunting like a contented sow. Nothing new
under the sun.
* * » •
“Vec.”: One night during heavy rain I
was awakened by the seratchings and yelpings of
a small terrier-slut. Treated her to reproaches
and missiles, but she persisted until I got up and
lit a candle, whereupon the little animal made
eagerly towards the yard. I followed, and found
that her pups, in an old barrel, had their heads
just above accumulated water. In two minutes
more they would have been drowned.
HIS MOTHER EARTH.
MR. ADDLEPATE (vainly endeavoring to walk up
fence): "Gerrout! Geralong! Lemme ’lone!
Who’sh holding me lack? ”
“ YVooli ” : Fe shags being choked by fish
( Filer,” 8., 7/4/'00). Dead shags thus choked
are frequently found on the Clarence during the
period (every few years) when the shags infest the
f l Y er - l* 3lS > however, surprising what a huge fish
this slim-necked bird can swallow. The choking
occurs with eels more frequently than with thicker
bream or fiathead. When fish are scarce the shags
fight fiercely for any caught. Also, a shag or two
will hover near a pelican, and when the latter nabs
a fish, one shag approaches by diving, and seizes
Liie pelican by the pouch, uttering at the same
time shrill cries which produce a rush to the spot
of all the shags in the vicinity. Then, by force of
numbers, they drag the pelican’s head under
water, and harass him till he relinquishes his
prize, for which then a battle ensues amongst the
shags themselves, while the robbed pelican hovers
disconsolately around. These things only happen
when fish are scarce ; when they are plentiful all
is peace and harmony.


Toilet
Requisites
ARE
As much to a Lady as the Fashions.
Silver-mounted Hair Brush.
Best Hand-drawn Bristles, all shapes, 17/6 18/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-
We stock a great number of New, Artistic and Useful Articles for the Toilet Table.
The above is one of the many.
PLAIN FIGURE
PRICES . .
FAIRFAX # ROBERTS, vice-regal jewellers,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
n
THIS is an illustration of
Mr. A. Saunders’ specially-
designed Gold Sword Brooch
with the Australian flag
prettily enamelled in all its
colors, and should command
a ready sale at 20s. Mr.
Saunders has on view at his
up-to-date jewellery estab-
lishment —815 George-street,
Sydney—an excellent assort-
ment of all kinds of watches,
plate, &c. Country resi-
dents may with cbnfidence
consult Mr. Saunders,
whose reputation for straight
dealing, combined with the
excellence of his wares, is
the secret of the great
success he has achieved in
the trade.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADK.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 17~>
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
“ Carpe Re bad turns. An old
French sailor told me this : “ When I was
a young man in France, I once assisted at
the ascent of a balloon. A lot of men were
holding on to the ropes, and we were to
let go at a given signal. I did not hear
the signal, and having a firm grip of my
rope I suddenly found myself 50ft. from
the earth and rapidly nearing the clouds.
I was not hopelessly terrified, because I
knew I could climb up hand-over-hand ;
but when I got to within Bft. of the car,
at this time half-a-mile high, I saw that
the rope in that part had been so badly
frayed that only one strand remained.
That gave me a really bod shock. My
head began to swim, and the pit of my
stomach seemed to fall into one of my
calves, leaving me with a suffocating
sense of nausea which is horrible to re-
member. I persevered with my climbing,
though expecting to drop from pure fright
every moment. When I reached the edge
of the car I was hauled in. Then I
swooned and fell on its floor.”
* * • *
A Kyabram (Vic.) fish-story relates
how, during the Easter holidays, a resident
fishing in the Goulburn hooked a 51b. cod
wiiioh was half-way down the throat of
another weighing 581 b. Sixty-three pounds
of cod at one haul! Recalls the whaler’s
yarn: The river-loafer was asked by the
.Jackaroo : “ How’d you catch fish here,
mister ? —what bait ? ” “ Don’t use bait.
We catch ’em by the yard. Perch out
on a log an’ watch an’ wait. Presently a
string o’ cod comes along, seconi one try-
in’ to swaller the first, third one tryin’ to
swnller the second, an’ so on. Then you
grab the last one, haul the string ashore,
an’ saw off what you want.” A Nagambie
min once caught four good cod at one
pull, one inside the other like those boxes
you buy from the Japs. There is an-
other river story in vogue along the Goal-
burn, illustrating the voracity of the
Goulburn cod. A vigneron above Nagam-
bie lost a cow, found her body three days
later in thsriver, each leg swallowed nearly
to the knee by one of a quartet of huge
cods. Anyhow, the voracity of the cod-
fish is right away ahead of the voracity of
the cod-fisher.
• • * *
“Yar.”: The first Silvarmy con-
tingent to visit our settlement consisted
of six big soldiers and a trio of lasses.
They arrived in covered concerns like
circus-carts, and the girls found shelter
in somebody’s home ; the warriors camping
out not very far from the blacks’ camp.
Some time in the night the yokels got to
work and shifted the Salvation vehicles
over among the darkies, and next morn-
ing the Army’s respectability was totally
discredited. Nobody would go to hear
it, so it left, and never came back.
“Allan P.” : Re animal chivalry. The
ordinary kangaroo dog will not kill a dingo slut;
he merely knocks her over and goes on. The
deer-hound, however, makes no such distinction.
. “Jack Shay ” re factory girls :
AVriter knows several factory girls who have “ fallen ”
once, twice, several times—and have never become pros-
titutes. “ A fall ” doesn’t mean prostitution. The self-
reliant girl—and most factory girls are self-reliant—can
generally protect herself during her time of trouble, and
with assistance from her mates keep the wolf from the
door. When convalescent, her ability as an operative
provides her with the means to support herself without
becoming a “ common ” woman. Much to the credit of
the factory class in general, a “ fall ” is no bar to a girl’s
employment and recognition. The whole business is
looked upon in its right light as a natural occurrence, and
there is not the “ cruel stigma ” which exists in circles
supposed to be more intelligent and humane. And writer
knows a number of factory foremen in Sydney, and denies
the truth of the wholesale accusation of lechery laid
at their door. As for putting a girl in a bagnio at
once, the average bagnio is, as a rule, a worse sweating-
den than the average factory. The bagnio operative has
to make dividends for the “boss,” and the houris are
sweated by the bagnio-keeper for profit. The factory
girl doesn’t worry' over her fall. If the fall was un-
natural, there would be cause for worry. It’s not
the first fall that counts —it’s the fruits thereof;
A husbandless mother who can earn 30s. a week is not at
the mercy of the world like one who can only earn ss. per
week. Being at the mercy of the world means at the
mercy of some man or number of men who will provide a
certain sum of money. When the State recognises the
baby as the potential citizen, and makes provision for its
infancy—if not already provided for—it will eliminate
that great incentive to prostitution—the necessity' of
supporting the child. As for the State that tries to inter-
fere with the causes of the baby, into its hands we will
give the courses of the sun, moon, stars and wind. As for
the woman who is built that way—well, a wilful woman
will have her way. “ Save the babies, ana the mothers in
seven cases out of ten are quite competent to save them-
selves.”
The sanitary conditions at Auckland
(M.L.), viewed in connection with the local out-
b.eak of plague, may well be regarded with
gravity. One of the chief city sewers discharges
within a few yards of the main passenger jetty—
a mighty wooden structure projecting nearly a
third of a mile into the harbor. The shallow fore-
shores along the city water-front are covered with
the foulness of over half a century’s drainage.
Although there are many large and constantly-
flowing rivers within 20 or 30 miles of Auckland,
the city step-fathers are content to derive their
water-supply from an inefficient spring situated a
tuppenny ’bus-ride out of town, surrounded by a
growing suburban population, and not altogether
free from a suspicion that it is polluted by the
percolations from Waitakerei cemetery. More-
over, a fortnight’s drought—and M.L. droughts
seldom last longer than a fortnight—causes an
incipient water-famine, and there is something
fearsome in the idea of a city of 60,000 people
facing a pestilence with a water-supply which be-
haves like that. After dark the night-carts make
their pestiferous rounds, and all sorts of foulness
festers in the dust-bins for hours on the pathways.
If Auckland escapes decimation by the plague, it
can thank its lucky stars and not the Heaven-sent
capacity of its rulers.
A PATRIOT PROVISIONALLY.
FIRST COOKIE: “Ah, John, I see as yer hoy has gone with Ther 'Buskies'! Yer must feel fair proud
about it fer sure.”
SECOND COCKIE : “ Middlin’, Jim, middlin'! Coarse we’re,proud about it; but I sorter wish he could have
waited till ploughin’ was over. I will be put to gettin’ a new man on; and, the worst of
the darned thing, I'll have to pay him!”
Letter written to a Wanganui (M.L.) paper
about “ Traitors ” :
Mixing, as I have done, with all classes of the com-
munity, I have listened with intense interest to the
various discus don s that take place touching on the
present war. I am astonished to find that we have
traitors of the deepest dye in this beautiful, colony,
openlv denouncing our noble Queen and Government,
and at the same time wearing a volunteer uniform and
enjoying all the freedom and privileges to be gained by
British colonists. Now, I think there is a fine opening
for some of our loyal and patrio ic young Maoriland
legislators to distinguish themselves by introducing a
Bill into Parliament to disfranchise all such disloyal sub-
jects, so that our future Parliaments shall not be con-
taminated by such riff-raff. The South African Parlia-
ment contains so many members who, to say the least,
are not all that they should be. May it never be the
case in Maoriland. lam proud to say that I belong to
that noble race of patriots, the Hungarians. I am a
colonist of 25 years, and I have reared a family of ten
children under the Southern Cross, and I detest traitors.
Think of that, from a Hungarian, of all men in
the world. The proudest boast of the Hungarian
is that he has been a traitor to his Austrian
sovereign off and on for a great part of the last
400 years, and even within the memory of men
now living to be a Hungarian patriot meant being
an enemy to the head of the empire. Kven now
there is'only peace in Hungary because the
disloyal kingdom has wrested almost .complete in-
dependence from Austria, including the right to
secede wholly from the empire as soon as the pre-
sent Imperial family becomes extinct.
Still comes the flood of modesty from South
Africa. A Western Victorian paper prints a letter
“received by Mr. A. ,1. Satcliwell from Private
Jones, wdio, in characteristic style, gives some
interesting incidents in connection with the cam-
paign in South Africa.” Writing from Norval’s
Pont, under date March 13, Private Jones is made
to say things like this :
Soldiers, as a rule, are rather a bad lot —different to the
Vic. Mounted Rifles, who are really models. I can’t say
much in favor of t.h ■ New South Wales fellows. One day,
10 of the Victorians-were out with the New South Welsh-
men, going to find out the enemy's strength. We were
all on dismounted duty, the horse-holders having to retire.
The (ire sustained by the Boers became so warm that the
order was given to retire. We got our horses all right;
but the men from New South Wales, who were in charge
of their comrades' horses, retired at once, leaving the dis-
mounted men to get away as best the,v could. The
V.M.R. had travelled about a mile before they noticed the
state of affairs, when our officer, Lieut. Staughton, said,
“ Boys, look at the N.S.W. fellows ; they have cleared
away with the horses ; come on, we will go back for them.”
Well, we turned like one man, and raced through the smoke
and the bullets which were being fired, caught a man each,
lifted him up behind, and started back. How we all
escaped I don’t know. There were only ten of us and an
officer, but still we checked the Boers taking the men on
foot prisoners. The detachment of Britishers turned
round, halted, and watched us. I would not like to go
through the same experience again for a Victoria Cross.
I did not know where I was with excitement; but you
simply don’t care whether you get hit or not in a scramble
like this. There was a big row over the affair, and the
excuse offered by the New South Wales fellows was that
their horses became unmanageable.
, The West Australians are a grand lot, and would go
through h —l if it was necessary', but I can’t say the same
of the South Australians, who cleared out during the
fight at the Windmill before the order was given. That is
whore we lost so many men—23 casualties. . . . The
British soldiers speak with a peculiar twang, so different
from us, and it amuses one to hear them talk. Some of
the letters published in the papers about the war are
prettj' correct; others are mostly lies.
The Bulletin should smile ! What a lovely time
Private Jones will have when the Cornstalks read
his news!
The casual miner. At a southern N.S.W.
mine, t’other day, the braceman, having lowered
his mate to charge some holes with dynamite,
wandered off to the forge to do some sharpening.
Mate put in the charges and—taking braceman’s
attendance for granted—lighted them, and yelled
to be pulled up. A passing miner from an adja-
cent claim pulled up just in time to prevent
“ another dreadful mining accident.”
“Gunner”: Lord Roberts condemned
Buller for not keeping a sufficiently tight hand on
his subordinate, Warren, and making him obey
orders. Commanders-in-chief have always had the
same trouble with Generals of division. Marl-
borough had. Frederick the Great lost the battle
of Kolin because Mannstein, who commanded one
of his divisions, chose in a fit of temper, to march
it right out of action. Roberts, in his “ Rise of
Wellington ” says:
Wellington had only one or two generals under him on
whom he could rely to carry out his instructions without
his own personal supervision.
Wellington himself wrote to the Government:
I am obliged to be everywhere and do everything, md
if absent from any operation, something goes wrong.
Again:
In the late operation I have been obliged to be general
of the cavalry and. of the advanced guard, and leader of
of two or three columns, sometimes on the same day
Roberts commands an army four times as large as
that of Wellington, and his subordinates are no
better, if so good. He did not chose them, and if
he were to send half-a-dozen of them home in dis-
grace their successors might be worse. He is
nearly 30 years older than Wellington was when
he went to Portugal, and it is physically impossible
for him to “be everywhere and do everything.”
He must leave small details to the discretion of the
subordinates who have been given him, and if men
like Broadwood and Brabant are, like Gatacre,
grossly overrated, he can only put them in places
where they can’t do mischief, and find men whom
lie can trust. He did that with many of his cavalry
Bi-igadiers in Afghanistan. Roberts, like Wel-
lington, will run no risks.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ko notice icill be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
F.: Fact is that the cheap boy-driver, now in
such genera] use by skinflint traders and carriers, is re-
sponsible for nine-tenths of the street accidents which are
of such alarmingly frequent occurrence in the city and
suburbs Solemn A.: You must be a Solemn A. to send
us along as information the origin of the “ Duke of
Argyle ” gag. Also, that MacMahon item has been in
pretty well every newspaper in Australia.... Yost: “Is it
lawful for a man to marry lus stepmother’s sister?” Yes,
hut we have yet to see the man who ■wants to! Old
Bus : The custom of burying with the feet to the east is
supposed to be a survival from archaean sun-worship. It
is older than the classic religions, and is widely prevalent
to this day. Corpses are carried feet-foremost because,
being also back-downwards, they would thus, if raised to
an erect position, be facing forwards with the procession.
Rough R. ; You say that “ Imperial Federation might
render war impossible.” Yah ! The chances are that the
very last survivor of the human race will proudly wear a
medal in commemoration of his prowess in killing the
second last man with the last half-brick of a decayed
civilisation Rough R. : “Bow is it that previous to
the Dis-establishment of the Irish Church there were
nearly twice as many sheep, head of cattle, pigs, and
double the amount of money banked, besides a good three
or four hundred thousand more people in Ireland than
there are to-day ? ’’ AVell, can you tell us how is it that
there are now three times as many ducks in N.S. AVales as
there were before Jawbone Neild began soaping his
moustachios ? J. Charles : Oapt. Mahan cannot bv any
means be regarded as an unbiassed authority in the
matter, having made too much British money out of and
got too much British praise for his justly-celebrated book,
which is essentially a glorification of England. . .C.W.S. :
AVell, if that joke wasn’t made before, why wasn’t it?. ..
Robert Archer : Many thanks AY’.J.S.: Rot! The
N.S.AV. “Imperial Bushmen” weren’t anajmics—they
were a fine, full-blooded crowd, and infinite is the pity
that such men ever set out on such a villainous errand....
E. AVenn ; 2 cols, abuse received. But, to come to the
point, where is the Australasian paper from the columns
whereof so many successful books have been compiled as
from those of The Bulletin?. .. .B. Bluey : Story about
selector who had an aversion to railways declined with
some hesitation... .A. Manson : You say we are dog-
matic, but you are simply pigmatic. You see we know,
for wc lived there long enough to sink a 120 ft. shaft
Duncan M. : Nothing in ’em.... J.S.A. (VV.A.): Too
trilling S.W. : Too fragmentary, and implication not
clear F.J.I). : AVould need practical re-writing
J.C.G. : Both vory flimsy.....M.O’R. (Cobargo): Good
idea P. Heath : Rather funny, but doesn’t quite “ get
there.”.. ..Madge Mac : Too long and loose-jointed for
Bulletin.. ..Austa :No special merit AVill J. : The
name of your first item fits the lot—“ Ink-Wasting I ”,...
Charlotte B. : True in the main ; but the war-fever will
have to subside before these things can begin to coine
home to people in general... . X-Y.Z. : Not quite “go”
enough Marion M. : Mediocre quality ; and, in any
case barred by too much dialect Jennie P. : Nicely
enough written, but lacking in life and movement....
Stan. AV. : Neither up to mark... .T. 0.8. : Not badly
handled. May use... .Annie R. : Hopeless lack of verse
ability Miiieta: Lacks dramatic interest, and tapers
away’ to nothing W.J.S. : Your anthropological in-
dictment is sound enough, hut then you go on to
overstate the ease and Wander wildly off the track.
Bushman: Yes; unless ho signs a fresh lease....
A.J.H. : Thanks; interesting scraps 0.H.8. (P.) :
Good Stewart F. : A dear old friend A.D.A.
(Ad.): That's quite true Dry blower : Didn’t see
paper. A'ou should have enclosed cutting in
letter E. C. Cren. : No space here to ventilate the
dum-dum controversy', in which one side appears to be
quite as bad as the other... .Novice : Too obvious ; you
can see the end coining all the time T.C.B. (M.L.) : A
hackneyed and not too savoury subject. Also, the stj'le
does not redeem the story... .T.R.N. : Thanks.... Hal
Eyre : Thanks... .G.B. : Can’t print your rejoinder under
circumstances. The reply was written by the son of the
dead man.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
J.A.P. : Can you ca 11?... .C.M‘D. : A r ery old subjects.
Once they had their grey hair dyed ; now they are be-
coming grey once more.... Unavailable : Macbeth, H.
Glover (excellent in their way, but not our way —and im-
possible to reproduce in black and white) ; S. Svmon,
AV.T.O., Cerise, V.P.J., E.M.H., E.A.A.D., Geo. Burns,
Sylvia, F.AV.B., 11.5. C., AV., Vick, Jim.
THE LATE J. H. RAINFORD.
Photo. , Adelaide Photo. Co.
That good-natured identity, James H.
Rainford, who died in Sydney the other day had
been for 37 years connected with theatrical matters
in Australia in every capacity from “general
utility ” to manager, and has been associated with
more “ benefit performances ” than any other man
in the country. He was long a member of Sydney
City Council &c., and a prominent member of the
N.S.W. Licensed Victuallers Association.
A frequently-forgotten truism :
Democracies, when a less part of their citizens overtop
the rest in wealth, degenerate into oligarchies and princi-
palities.”—Aristotle.


A BURNING QUESTION!


\"W7
<*■ .. l
M Orderly 'v/eTI /
\ oiled. dd>oalf l'»v
tydtf." <^-i s
f<4>',
•tft ..^O7
w#
✓ 1
A "Herftld" reportar called on the lady
to-day. and* was shown Into a snug little
parlor, where a tall, dark-eyed lady
xecelved This was Mrs Jardlne,^
"Oh. fin a real patriot. 1 can roll yon,'*'
said Mrs Jardlne. "and If giving my life
for Queen Victoria would do any good I
would willingly give It. lam always f
gelling Into hot water through being (
l«>y. I to my Queen tad’country I am an
Australian born and bred, and am proud
of 1 lie fact, and I cant bear to see our
boh! brave soldier boys treated as they
have been."
"So." Mrs Jardltie continued, her eyes
flasnlng fire as she said It. "I determined 1
to take the law Into my osvn hands, and
whip Mr Watt. And I hove done It. Oh. I
woui ) have liked to have got into the
room where Cabinet wa9 meeting. I
wcul.l have \vhlpp?d thorn all. and. things
would have been very lively for them. I
can tell you. When Mr Wattalammedi tha.
door on me after I had struck him. I tried,
to open It . but I could not. I was too exc-
elled. perhaps, but Ifcoulft have got It).
I would have gone." / —^
Sfi'eraJ -,.
OTR',. 7 •'" ,
fhe majority of the people who attended
for thi* f\ciit found thcoueltcß waylaid at
odd coiner* by four Chinese yoong liudiea,
who have boen remarkably sureeMful in
collecting money for ihe hospital. They
were l\»y Hing, Lew Shing/ Chun
ring and Cin l’ir.jj.
Ktf,<rcirl:->IWIMJ
lie fory««.
I (Jussie
I I*7 "Ve
I S^Sm
\ >V *
do.% myself. lyyjJ
*•. *#rliK«+. //
d£,Ke 67c
you* 7 e
fUf, I
4fe.
\ 1
Y 7^^!
'ife
A ..vt&'ju H -'
MELBOURNIAN A.


Sha:
NDSOKE 11D USEFUL WEDDING PRESENTS
CALI, AND SEE OUR DISPLAYED SHOWROOMS. AN UP-TO-DATE SHOW. WE REPLATE OLD SILVERWARE EQUAL TO MW.
A. SAUNDERS.
ake BASKET, chased, l*s 6d; plain, 15s 6d.
tl'er Styles, 20s, 255, 20s, £2, and 1 £2 10s.
V\ e guarantee the quality. Send tor
Illustration.
A. SAUNDERS.
SNT.'S FRIEND,” Letter Book, pure Solid
Silver-mounted, 15s, 20s, 255.
A tlseful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak Biscuit, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, 15s 64;,
fluted bands, 20s;
shield only, 12s 6d.
FLOWER STANDS,
15s 6d pair.
Other styles, 10s, 12s 6d,
20s, pure Silver-plated.
4 o'clock TEA SET, with Covers, g*lt Inside, pure
silver-plated. 20 Years' Guaranteed.
C 2 10s; worth £4 4s. Other styles, 355, £2, £3, £4.
xjADIES,
KINDLY CALL and
SEE OUR DISPLAY.
j;. 1 .VTC-.r- j>»:. • • '-'vQ. • *• ?•
'i**- tev*'. \ * A ■• •':,
| pi ' > H
<#ik
2 Pure Silver BRUSHES and COMBS, in Silk Case,
£2 Ida, Special Value. Send for Illustration.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated
SUGAR SCUTTLE,
16s 6d, 20s, 25s.
FLOWER STANDS.
Latest Style, 21s pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 o’clock TEA SPOONS and TONGS. 12s id
other styles, 15s, 20s, 255.
Spoons without case, 6s, 7s 6d, 10s half-doi«»i
pure Solid Silver, In silk case, 255;
with Tones, 30s and 365.
CRUETS,
4 bottle, Square llotlles, 21*.
Similar, 255, 30s, 355.
Ruby JAM, l-2s 6d and 15s Gd
pure Silver-plated.
Guaranteed Quality.
Send for Price Book.
ladies; friend.
Pure Silver-mounted, l'Ss 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral BISCUIT, first-
class, 2'os, 22s 6d, 255.
COFFEE POT.
A. SAUNDERS. Solid Metal Silver-
pla-ted BUTTER, 265; similar, very
neat and pretty, 20s, 22s 6d.
Pure Silver Manicure SET, first-
class, 20s; smaller, 12s 6d.
TEAPOTS.—Pure Silver-plated, first-class,
30s. Other styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
(Send for Book of Patterns.)
s/m
m
i
mm
tm
a
3 |S
TEABOT.
SUGAR, with oover. MILK, with cover.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Electro Silver-plated TEA and COFFEE,
£5 ss. Other Styles, £4 4s, £6 6s 6d, £8 Bs, £lO 10s.
Send for List.
ENTREE DISHES, 4 pieces, pure Silver-plated,
£2 17s 6d. Others charge you £4 4s.
TRY A. SAUNDERS. ,
2 Butler KNIVES. Pearl Handle, 15s 6d.
drearer Style. 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
(Send for List.)
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER, os above, 15s 6d;
large size, 20s. Guaranteed
Quality.
Pure Silver-plated BUTTER, 8s 6d.
Special Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 6 Bottle Design,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, Large Size,
Cheaper Style, 20s, 255.
-1
m
j—
A. SAUNDKRS.
TOAST HACK, 10s 6d. Other Styles, 8s 6d. 12s fid, 15*
Pure Silver-plated. Guaranteed Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hot Water Tea KETTLE. 35a,
embossed, £2. Others charee
£2 10s and £3 for same art! t
We Guarantee the Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUETS, 30s, 35s. £2.
Cheap, 20s and 25s. Pure
Silver-plated.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver FRUIT KNIFE, 6s, 7s 6d, 10s.
ve-r-plated Serviette
RINGS, 3s 6d.
Silver, 10s 6d, IJs 6d.
Ruby Glass SALTS and
SPOON, 10s 6d pair;
other styles, 6s 6<3, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS. —Spoons and Forks—Solid Nickel Silver Table
Spoons or Forks, 4s half-dozen; Dessert, 3s; Tea, Is 6d. Pure Silver-
plate (on Hard White Metal) Table Spoons and Forks, 12s half-dozen;
Dessert, 10s; Tea, 5s 6d. These are Guaranteed to give every satis-
faction. Dinner and Desse-t Knives, 4s 6d and 9s 6d half-dozen, the
very beet Sheffield Steel. THEM.
A. SAUNDERS.—Butter KNIVES, pure Silver-plated, 2s, 3s, 4s; Pearl
Handle, 3s 6d; extra mounted, 6s 6d.
Jam SPOONS, same price. Two In case, 7s 6d and 10s.
Silver-mounted PURSES, 15s,
Cheap Styles, 6s, 7s 6d, 10s.
LADIES' FRIEND,
Silver-mounted, 15s.
MMMH
Pure Solid Silver PENCILS (Cedar), 3s 6d and 4s Gd.
SHLJNDERS;
JEWELLER AND SILVERSMITH, “32 815
A BEAUTIFUL DiSPLAY OF PRESENTS.
GIVEN
OLD PLATE MADE EQUAL TO NEW.
GEORGE-STREET,
Nearly Opposite Railway Station.
SEN!) 10UK ADDERS.


ANOTHER RADICAL CURE.
To Convince Sceptical Readers or Unbelievers.
IMITATORS CA-UST COPY BXJT OA.ITITOT RIVAL.
Dyspepsia and Neuralgia Promptly Cured;
T§?9 Com of
MSS. ELIZABETH PHIPPS.
(Reported for “ The Redfern Times.")
Within gunshot of Redfern Railway
terminus our reporter found the- residence
of Mrs. Elizabeth Phipps, at 418£ Eiizabeth-
street, Surry Hills. Lilia lady was at home,
and, in answer to enquiry, freely gave
an account of her recovery from a serious
case of anaemia and distressing neuralgia.
“My general health has not been good
since I was a child,” said Mrs. Phipps. “ I
was not strong, and some months ago I got
into an exceptionally low state. My diges-
tion became impaired ; I lost my appetite,
and had no taste for food I had, at times,
a sharp pain between the shoulders and in
the left side, but my most distressing
symptoms were neuralgic pains that, coming
up my neck, spread all over my head and
face with unbearable pain. At last this
pain became so serious that it affected my
eyes ; they became weak and dazed. This
was followed by a nervous, trembling pain
in the arms, especially the right arm, so
that I thought 1 was going to be paralysed.
My husband tried to laugh me out of my
fears. I noticed that the neuralgia pains
were worse in hot weather, and always game
on towards sundown, and, continuing in the
night, robbed me of sleep. Towards
morning these pains would ease, but only to
return again the next night. Sometimes,
when I tried to lie down, suffering from this
terrible neuralgia, my throat would seem to
swell, my breathing became difficult, and I
felt as though someone was trying to
smother me. This feeling was so distressing
that even if I could have gone to sleep I
felt my breathing would have ceased.
Naturally, I was distressed, and in very
low Spirits.”
“ What remedies did you try, Mr*.
Piiipps ? ” enquired the reporter.
“I took a mixture from the chemist’s
and advertised preparations, but they wer*
far from improving my general health, and
very soon my neuralgic pains returned as
badly as before.”
“ What did you try next?”
“By accident I came across one of the
pamphlets of Clements Tonic, and, on read-
ing the testimonials, I found the names of
several persons I knew. This gave mo
confidence. I knew what was said was
genuine, and I became convinced that
Clements Tonic would suit my case and
cure me. This is how I came to purchase
the first bottle.”
“ And what wasthe result, Mrs. Phipps ? ”
“After taking the fourth dose, that is,
on the second day—for I took dements
Tonic three times a day—l noticed a decided
change for the better, and as I continued
to take it the improvement was perceptible
and constant. I know it wa3 Clements
Tonic that did me good, for, owing to our
changing house and being very busy, I
neglected for a short time to take Clements
Tonic, and I found that during that time
my cure was retarded The first and most
welcome sign I had that Clements Tonic
was doing me good was the return of my
appetite. I could eat my meals ; and, after
that, all my other pains went away ; or,
rather, they did not come again, as they
used to do, particularly the terrible pains in
my face and head that had come-every night
so regularly and made Bleep impossible.
Only last week I recommended a friend of
mine, who is in a very low state of health
from overwork, to take Clements Tonic,
and already it is doing her good.”
“ Have you any objection, Mrs. Phipps,
to your experience being made public ?”
“ Not at all. Yon «a freely add my
name to the numbers of those I know who
cannot speak too well of Clements Tonic.
It is a grand medicine.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION .
J, Elizabeth Phipps, of 418 t Klizabetb-street, Surry
Hills, In the colony of New South Wale*, do
solemnly ana sincerely declare that 1 have carefully
read tlio annexed document, consisting of three
folios and consecutively numbered, from one to
three, and that 't contains and is atrue'aivd faithful
.account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and
also contains my full permission to publish ihename in
any .way; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtueof the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled " An Act for the more effectual abolition of
Oaths and A fli rotations taken and made in the
various Departments of tlio government of Now
South Wales, and to substitute Declarations in lieu
thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary, and
extra judioial Oaths and Affidavits ” ‘ ,
Declared at Surry Hills, this Ist day of July, on
thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine, before me,
w. 4. McDonnell, j.p.
Patefyt Sbccp-Braijdiog LiqCiid
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Soour Ovt|
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Crimwade & Co.
MELBOURNE.
RICH & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Blaclt, Red, and Bine. 3a 6d per gall, in Mellj. and Sydney; 3a Dd per gall, in Brislaane.
THE PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION Ltd
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS
mn
Electricity Poured into Your
Body While You Sleep!
Dr. CLARKSON’S ELECTRIC BELT
WILL fill your nerves with Electricity
every night while you sleep,
and take
Pr. CLARKSON’S
RE-INVI6ORATOR
during the day, and in ten days you will
feel the dawn of new life in every organ
of your body. All the nerves will be
charged with renewed energy, and your
heart will beat stronger with the gladness
of youthful vigor. To men who are
Nervous, failing in Vitality, Sleepless,
Despondent, Losing Memory, Wasting
the Vigor of Manhood, Dyspeptic, Weak
in Stomach and Kidneys; who notice a
general collapse of hll Vital parts ; to
such men Electricity and the Ke-In-
vigorator as I apply, it will bring happi-
ness and health. Its effect on Weak
Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Its touch is Magnetic.
m
M
V
x~-
\
9
ifJs'
*
VNk 1
il
s
i
X
SB
rmrM
-fwkwr mm
ifcl te.tr
i ••'
3*r
.-W&
T FILLS the blood with the fire of
1 youth, and gives new vim and
confidence. While it is on the body,
the nerves teem with vitalising warmth,
and within a few weeks the full vigor
of manhood is restored.
MY ELECTRIC
BOPY BELT
lias been brought to the highest .state
of perfection by twenty years’ study
and experiment. It is unlike any of
the old-style belts, and is warranted to
be stronger than any other appli-
ance made. It is guaranteed for one
year without any expense for renewals
or repairs.
PRBCE : ELECTRIC BELT, 10 .
Re-lnvigorator,7/6 Bottle; 3 Bottles£l
Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
If you are Sick or Weak, try my New Method at once. It ,will save you years of misery and many Doctor’s bills. Call if you Can. If not, let
me send you my Pamphlet fall of Truth for Men who Want to be Strong.
Call or
Apply:
m
OTJT
RATE
nm
Cut-Hats Price List Pest Free on Application.
Corner ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.


This little verse was suggested by the following
pathetic story from the real life of Mr. M. T. S.
Kempton, electrical engineer to the Melbourne
City Council, 6 Baldwin Street, Malvern Vic
He suffered long—for years, and life had list its
lustre. But his own words will better express his
feelings and experience. He says “ I feel it my
duty to testify to the splendid results of Warner's
Safe Cure and Pills. About eight years ago I was
taken ill and tried two different doctors. They
did me no good, and for a fortnight I could not
turn in the bed. The doctor informed me that I
had kidney colic. I had been reading one of your
pamphlets previous to this, and I thought 1 would
give Warner’s Safe Cure a trial. A friend of mine
n 'cured me two bottles and one vial of pills, and
ore I had finished the second bottle I was up
again, and it drove a lot of gravel out of my
system. The doctor seemed to have no faith in
the permanencv of the cure, and said I would be
troubled with the same malady again in two years.
But I am very thankful to say that I have never
had a return of it since, and I think eight years is
enough time to prove the cure. I have recom-
mended it to others, with the best results, and
shall continue to do so. In fact, I think it is the
safest and best medicine under the sun, and am
confident that it saved my life.”*
GEO. ROE
WHISKEY
IS
BEFORE ALL.
SHIRTS.
.For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shikts
are highly recommended.
3Si-.per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q'land
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGE^
...0n...
fir. Fraok ScQior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
Avoid Indigestion. Eat
GRANUMA
Avoid Plague ? Drink
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
Be Cheerful? Drink
BILLY TEA
The LUXURY of the TIMES. QUITE UP-TO-D^E
KHAKI BLEND TEA.
Indispensible ! USED by all Loyalists !''
THE BUSHMAN CONTINGENT CANTEEN
Of ALL Good Grocers and Sensible Storekeepers.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT€R BRAD Ley » CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 32* George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION. 4, TOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the A action JRooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bbadlky & Co., 324 George-st
POLITICAL
POINTS
The famine in India, the plague in Aus-
tralia, the fire in Canada, rebellion in Africa —and
yet no parson’s voice is heard crying: “ Oh, stop
this unjust war, for surely He is offended ! ”
N. S. W. Ministerial press organ announces
that a Compulsory Arbitration Bill will be one
of next session’s features. The Lyne party is
getting its power —and the Labor party is getting
its price.
On the line of the W.A. Midland Railway
Co., one of the ’Gropers’ fattest concessions,
there are engine-drivers who have to do an 18-hour
stage for 11s., while the firemen get Bs. Bd. But
even the ’Groper turns at that.
J. H. Syrnon, Q.C., on the Privy Council
appeal question :
Justice was a divine attribute. To dispense justice was
the first and highest duty, and the final test of the capa-
city of a people for self-government. He claimed that
capacity for the Australian people.
It is believed that in order to obviate all
risk of his post as Federal delegate being inter-
preted as a disqualifying “office of profit under
the Crown,” Kingston will resign it on the eve of
the forthcoming election for S.A. Southern Coun-
cil district.
Premier Lyne is credited with the inten-
tion of shunting the big plague expenditure caused
by Sydney’s unspeakable filth on to the shoulders
of the general N.S.W. taxpayer, and no wonder
the air of the back blocks is vibrant with denun-
ciatory eloquence. For nearly three-quarters of a
century Sydney has not taxed herself sufficiently
to keep herself clean, and even the inadequate
amount provided has been sweated by the em-
bezzlements of dishonest employes and the
boodlings and wastings of successive rings of
dishonest or incompetent aldermen.
In view of the cabled reports of the tre-
mendous enthusiasm in Dublin during the Queen’s
visit, and the dragged-in references to
Irish opinion and the war, it would
h&ve been just as well if the papers
had printed also that, as late as
March 8, Dublin Corporation
unanimously passed a strong .
resolution of sympathy with the -
African republics.
“The American is but a
transplanted Englishman,” say
the Anglo-Saxon-dominion Jingoes.
They forget one thing : The Yankee has
not only beei> transplanted—he lias also been
grafted.
Albury Border Post urges as a claim for
the Federal Capital that the local police-court had
no case before it for two week. 3 running. But a
year or so ago a resident pardon declared . Albury
to be the most immoral town in Australia—and
that was also presented as justifying the claim for
the Federal Capital. View-point is everything.
k ven the personal paragraphs in the West-
ralian diggers’ papers show how the fields. feel
towards-the Perth oligarchy:— “A distinguished
stranger, the Hon. R. W. Pennefather, LL.B.,
M.P., of Perth, is ak present on a visit to the
Goldfields. Mr. Pennefather holds the position of
Attorney-General in the Swan River Settlement
Government.”
Minister Drake is putting into force the
compulsory clauses of Q. Education Act. Very
well in its way, but the crying need of Bananaland
is the providing of educational facilities—schools
arid itinerant • teachers—for the .bakblox. The
money expended - on truant - Inspectors would
educate scores of epuntry children who have no.
chance of .instruction.
•Interviewed at Singapore on his way to
England Lord Brassey said he would not care to
venture an opinion as to the justness of the war,
but he thought the whole question would • soon
prove- a serious matter for the present Govern-
ment. Nevertheless, Britain was now engaged in
a bitter struggle, and discussion could not be
carried on profitably. Hum !
When the Federal city is being laid out
let us hope that the senseless and irritating
fashion of naming many streets with the same
name will not be allovred. Latest Brisbane
Directory shows that, in a town of 100,000 in-
habitants, there are 15 William-streets. There
are in Sydney 23 John-streets, 17 King-streets,
25 Victoria-streets, 29 Short-streets, 25 Church-
streets, &c., &c. The American method of
numbering streets has much to recommend it.
“ Malle,” on N.S.W. civil-service griev-
ances : - - - j
Increases to the sum of £14,000 are supposed to accrue,
to N.S.W. civil-servants this year, but as it is proposed to
cheesepare this amount from them in other directions,
the scheme is not quite so gorgeous as it looks. Take the
postal department as an example ; where an office worth
(say) £290 per annum falls vacant, it is filled by an officer
at £2OO or £240, and so on, through every grade of the
service. It was supposed that the Board had long ago cut
down every office to the very limits of equity. A few
cases taken at random from the Blue Book show that they
at least were not too lenient. An officer with 28 years’
service was reduced from £275 to £l4O ; of 24 years, £236
to £l2O ; of 23 years, £236 to £l3O ; of 39 years, £3BO to
£290 ; and many others ranging from 23 to 38 years’ ser-
vice were cut down in various amounts from £7O to £ll5.
Now that the N.S.W. railways and tram-
ways have actually begun to show a profit, how-
ever small, this would be a good time to enact that
such profits shall not go into revenue, but shall be
used to pay-off the railway debt, and for no other
purpose. N.S.W. can, presumably, pay its way
out of ordinary revenue like other countries, and
doesn’t need to. annex these profits. The Corn-
stalk Govt, is requested not to all speak at once.
“Old
Jac k ” :
Isn't safe to
keep a level
head now in
when discus-
si n g the
South Afri-
can worry.
Writer (aged 65) got
stamped upon, the other
day, because he said he
considered the Boers a
gallant people, fight-
ing for a just cause.
Booted and punched
and mashed upgener-
ally, by half-a-dozen -
friends of the Hempire.
•And when, notwithstand-
ing, and after a big drink,
writer further expressed his
opinion that the war was one of
greed and cant, he had to he sent
home in a cab, covered with a
horse-rug in the cause of de-
cency. That’s how the pre-
sent temper gets through the
right of free speech and
opinion in the Cabbage Garden,
nowadays.
Some of S’langdon Bonython’s friends
deny that he seriously entertains Federal aspira-
tions, and many who know him aver that he
hasn’t the pluck to risk defeat. The S.A.
Advertiser proprietor is one of the worst public
speakers in S. A. Moreover, he has for 20 years
conducted his paper so diplomatically that no one
knows what his political views are, or whether he
really has any.
For over three years church property in
N.S.W. has almost wholly escaped land-tax,
owing to the doubtful wording of a section of the
Land Tax Act. Thanks to Cardinal Moran and
others who pushed minor points into court the
commiasioners have now gathered a sufficient
number of judicial opinions to enable them to act
definitely. Accordingly they have issued notices
claiming land-tax on cnurch property generally,
and including in the claim the tax in arrear since
1896. The inclusion is “ a perfect staggerer.”
A TOUCHING QUESTION.
SMITH ( who objects to Jones’ ignorant and insulting
criticism of the latest performance of his friend
the illustrious tragedian Brown) : “ Have you
never been touched by a great artist? ”
JONES: “ Yes, indeed; your pal Brown touched
me for five shillings three months ago !”
Dear BULLETIN.— Apropos a recent ex-
planation, will you reprint a verse from “Dan-
ton’s” “Compromise” (Bulletin, 18/5/’95): —
The limpid clarity of Truth
I phosporesce with lies,
And put sophistic hectics on
The pallor of the Wise.
Thank you.—B.B.
Grainger, M.P. (S.A.), a recognised consti-
tutional authority, asserts that Labor-member
.Roberts, M.P., having a lieutenant’s commission
and pay in the Imperial Bushmen’s corps, must
necessarily vacate his seat in the Assembly.
Roberts asserts that he has been advised otherwise,
a ? t> SO ■ 6 ma^er remains pending the assembling
of Parliament. Roberts is to act as war corres-
pondent for one of the Adelaide papers. He
leaves a wife and three children behind.
SMOKE-ROOM WISDOM.
CALLOW : “ You can generally size-up a woman by
the way she blushes. ”
OLDBIRD : “ Yet, and by what she blushes at!"
Does it never strike the Union leaders
that legislation through Factories Acts has accom-
plished more in four years than the unions in 40?
Their ignoring of the non-unionist and their over-
looking of the fact that every worker is not neces-
sarily a manual laborer is the chief cause of their
inability to progre.ss. But why “demonstrate ” ?
Apparently the Australian worker’s only notion
of “celebrating” is to get behind a banner or
pound a big drum.
The two meetings, at the Australia Hotel
and of the Sydney Bar-—promoted to uphold the
alleged right of appeal to the Privy Council, were
attended by all the old anti-Federal crowd, and
resulted in the same monotonous clap-trap being
beefed out. Strange that Pilcher, M'Laurin and
co., when nightly heaving mud at the Bill, never
mentioned this, now to them, fatal defect. The
Geebung crowd dies hard.
Ex-Premier Dickson has been discounting
his at-long-last service in the cause of Australian
Federation by backing up the Chamberlain de-
mands in Loudon. Pnilp showed a decided dis-
position to do some backing-down when the
Premiers’ conference was on the board ; ap-
parently, the oleaginous auctioneer has followed
m the wake of Ins chief. And Dickson, it is
well-known, is very hungry for a bauble.
Vic. Govt, just now refuses to provide a
little money for necessary rep.airs and furnishings
of State schools, but is finding the cash for a new
lawn-tennis ground at the back of Parliament
House. And if the Legislative billiard-room
wanted £25 spent on it the new fixings would be.
supplied even though a dozen up-country schools
were suffering from holes in the roofs. State ex-
penditure is like charity—it begins at home and
covereth a multitude of sins.
Some people say the Boers have no imagi-
nation except that particular brand which was
erstwhile supposed a monopoly of the cable-offices.
But one man in Pretoria proposed to the Boer
Govt, to end the war by inviting the British
armies under Bullor and Roberts to desert en
masse and become burghers, with free farms
thrown in. The man who gets big ideas like that
is distinctly dangerous. Only half per cent, of his
notions may materialise, but that might be enough
to wreck an empire.
There is at least one dissatisfied man in
Maoriland. “ Ex-Sydneyite ”to The Bulletin :
A notion appears to prevail in Australia that M.L. is
the home of true democracy, and that there men—and
women too—stand solely on their merits—political patron-
age being unknown. But the fact is that Maoriland,
politically, is rotten to the core. The writer’s six months’
experience of the place has proved that one can’t even
gain office as a junior priest of Venus Cloacena without
the favor of Dick Seddon. Patronage, patronage, is the
indispensable all round. Also Maoriland is getting too
hot for mere man to live in, now that nearly every woman
in thejand is a self-appointed spy.
Financially the Rhodes crowd are, like
true patriots, quite disinterested ! Listen to the
Kimberley Free Press :
The De Beers Co., it is thought, will take the place of
the old Transvaal dynamite monopoly. Only it will sell
at a fair and a business price instead of an extortionate
one. And, instead of its sales being confined to the
Transvaal, it will undertake the supply of dynamite for
mining and industrial purposes throughout the whole of
South Africa, including Rhodesia. The consumption of
dynamite and blasting gelatine is expected to increase
enormously as mining extends in the Transvaal and
Rhodesia, and the profits accruing to the De Beers Co.
under this head are expected to assume large dimensions.
Kingston’s old colleagues in the present
Holder Ministry have undertaken to travel the
whole of the big Southern constituency in helping
his candidature for S.A. Leg. Council. A curious
anomaly is the fact that Attorney-General Gordon
is running for the district in conjunction with
Tory leader Stirling, whom Kingston is so anxious
to defeat. Stirling will get the solid Conservative
vote, and, if Kingston is elected, Cordon is tn
most likely of the three to go to the wall.
could not be a more eloquent illustration cn tne
mixed state of S.A. politics than this three-
cornered contest.
The cheap and easy patriotism of Premier
Philp, of Queensland. He proposes that the Aus-
tralasian Govts, should make a (Treasury) dona-
tion of £lO,OOO to the sufferers of the big Canadian
tire, the contribution of each province to be calcu-
lated on the population basis. Even the pennorth-
of-patriotism-aud-your-kid’s-photo-thrown-in kind
of contribution, invented by a Sydney Sunday
paper, is better than this. The admission of the
principle underlying the proposition of the Q.
Premier would tend to dry up the springs of
private benevolence, and would make the public
funds of Australasia the “ world’s oyster. ’
Why N.S.W. Bar should take such paths
to foment an agitation for the amendment of the
Commonwealth Bill is not too evident ; unless the
rank and file of its members are being worked-up
by the legally-omnipotent Cabbage. Tree Mob with
the object of amending for the mere sake of
amendment. It is significant, anyway, that it is
only in N.S.W. that the Bar is taking the matter
up. It would certainly pay the men of horsehair
better, for all appeals from every court to be heard
locally than to have them sent 1(5,000 miles away;
but perhaps the simple explanation is that most of
the alleged lawyers have little else to do just now.
What in the Britisher is but prudence and
statesmanship is in the Boer rank oppression. On
the very day that the ABGUS syndicate of papers
was printing Donald MacDonald’s statement that
“one man has been arrested and sent to gaol for
expressing in public opinions likely to create des-
pondency ” in Ladysmith, the other syndicate
was printing Wilkinson's statement that somebody
in Bloemfontein was fined £lO “ for repeating to a
friend a rumor that Cronje had been captured.”
But whereas the former was proof of the wise rigor
which brought success to White, the other was
just a “most amusing instance of Dutch op-
pression.”
“ M.L.A. writing to the Austkalian
Stah, hopes that unknown men, defeated candi-
dates, effete civil servants, or barristers will not
be amongst the new N.S.W. Log. Council ap-
pointees.
Ilather would we see some of those many men who, by
the energy they have displayed in the vigorous adminis-
tration of the institutions, public companies or businesses
they have conducted, have placed the same —practically
by their own efforts—in the front runk. These are the
class of men a nation can depend upon for going to the
root of any evil, and by their common sense business
aptitude are able to point out the proper course to pursue
for its remedy.
In whose interest is this hyjßithesis of the success-
ful Fat Gentleman printed ? Of course we know
Mr. John Meagher is to be appointed—but who
are the rest '!
Orating at Quirindi the other day, N.S.W.
Premier Lyne boasted that “ N.S.W.’s share in
the present South African struggle was the greatest
of any of the British colonies.” Well, The
Bulletin does not, of course, believe that that is
why N.S.W.’s share of the plague is also the
greatest; but it can well imagine bow Australian
Parsondom—if it had, by some strange chance,
happened to be, in this South African matter, on
the side of reason and justice—would have risen
up as one man to point out that “in the present
grievous visitation, dear brethren, the Lord is
unmistakably chastening us for our share in the
blood-guiltiness of this unrighteous war.” But, as
the boot happens to be on the other foot, the
plague—instead of being exalted into the Sword
of an avenging Deity—has got to remain at its
pathological status as a mere result of Dirt!
At tlie S.A. Leg. Council elections on
Saturday, May 19, the fate of Household Suffrage
will be settled. Each of four districts has to
return two members, and the Liberals must win
six seats to ensure the success of the measure.
The candidates are—Central District, for the Bill,"
Labor - candidates Kirkpatrick and Robinson ;
against it, Parsons and Vardon. Southern Dis-
trict, for the Bill, ex-Premier Kingston (fighting
in absentia) and Attorney - General Gordon ;
against it, Opposition-leader Stirling. Northern
District, for the Bill, Rice and Miller ; against
Duncan and Ward. North-Eastern District, for
the Bill, Moody and Russell; against, Lucas ’and
Pascoe. It is believed that Kingston’s absence
will greatly prejudice his chance, but there is
hope that the Liberals may win the requisite
number of seats, in which case their success in the-
future will be made much more easy.
How well «.e know that life is brief
That suffering is lorn/,
But joy sometimes replaces grief,
Then murmuring turns to song.


ESTABLISHED
1853.
PALING’S
PIANOS
ARE THE
LEADERS
SEND or COME
for
CATALOGUES
and PARTICULARS
SOLD
ON
EASY TERMS
MANY HA YE enquired into and examined the merits of PALING’S
HAVE YOU*>
PIANOS.
It is easy for us to say our Pianos are the BEST.
But it is easier to prove their superiority; you have only to see and
hear them and judge for yourself.
We look after the workmanship, you need not trouble about that, and
also see that the material is of the best.
The BEST workmanship and the BEST material produce the BEST
TONE.
Our prices will just suit your purse, whether you require a Cheap
Piano or a High-Grade one.
Come and Examine Them for Yourself.
We stock every kind of Musical Instrument, and Strings and Eittings
for same at LOWEST PRICES.
Band and Orchestral Instruments.
Violins, Cornets, Banjos, Guitars.
Mandolins, Autoharps, Accordeons, Flutes, etc.
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd., The Lead'll Music House, 338 George-st., SYDNEY.
BRISBANE and
NEWCASTLE.
THE
PLUM
mn
Price—SINGI.B RAZOR, Ills. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Donlile Leal her
Case, 21s. ;or with Ivory llan lies, 3 K Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is sup • rior to any
in the market, and never requires irrin WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRA.I& JSz AITKEN, 630 GEORGS ST., r YI3N.EY.
ftsiTOßs TO THE OLD COUNTRY
BAILEYS
GLOUCESTER ROAD,
SOUTH. KE/SSir*GTOfL
Under Kqyal Rrtronage.
LO?IDori.SW.
THE NEW LOUNGE.
m
n
One of the FINEST examples
OF MODERN OAK CARVING EXTANT.
Self-contained Suites .
Public Rooms opening on to
PLEASANT PRIVATE GARDEN.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON.
Grand Military Divertimento
Arranged for the Pianaforte
by LAN DON ROBERTS^
“THE RELIEF OF LADYSMITH.”
■
o|g:
■ '-V- i.K^V;
V
8”\ '"J *sr ■<&.'&i < '
„, ’J ■>*?s,?*#&£ % • ';>•■• - -. '*
' - • , ’- r! '*. v -7 Afe
rjrSLj
, r:..
... ..• -:
,;4v ~ '
BKT
lip
wmjssm
PRICE 2s.
% SYSOPS IS. Jt
X.—BRITISH RETIRE FROM DUNDEE.
2. “WHEN JOHNNY COMES MARCHING HOME
AGAIN.”
3. AT LADYSMITH (sunrise).
4. GENERAL SIR GEORGE WHITE, V.C., ORDERS A
SORTIE AGAINST BESIEGING BOERS.
5. CAVALRY ADVANCE.-
6. NAVAL BRIGADE—“ SONS OF THE SEA.”
7. BRITISH SURPRISED BY BOERS—TO ARMS—
THE ATTACK.
8. STAMPEDE OF MULES—REJOICING OF BOERS
—(Boers’ National Melody).
9. BOER ARTILLERY SHELL LADYSMITH—
ANXIETY OF BESIEGED. PRAYER.
10. “RED, WHITE AND BLUE’’—(Bands of General
Buller’s Relief Forces in the Distance).
11. ENTRY INTO LADYSMITH.
12. “GRAND MARCH.”
13. RULE BRITANNIA.”
14. GOD SAVE THE QUEEN.” FINALE.
ALLAN A CO.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
V - • ; ; ' / ' . . : -*/■ ;• - .
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
No Tools Required
THE TYRE BEING EASILY
DETACHED WITH THE
HANDS.
The 1
Simpli- |
city of 8
Handiingl
mn
makes them popular with all cyclists. And their
Durability makes them the Cheapest.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12 months.
Beware of Imitations I
Tyres offered to the public as
“The Dunlop Principle ” are
only imitations. No tyre is
a genuine Dunlop unless the
cover and tube are embossed
with this D®“
TRADE
MARK.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.


m
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3XT.S.-W.
(Hontdepietefl/j|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEB.EAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY*
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
The City Mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^#
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street (facing Bridge st.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident,-Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London,.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Liahilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, e«e.
W. M‘MiLiiAN, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. O. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TJUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loi)doi) & LaocaSbirc
Fire Insurance company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydnsy.
Directors—John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
The Bank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Oharker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ... £lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... .... 250,000 ... £350,000
P.TTY TVTPTUAL EIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 Pitt Street, Sydney.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERIt, Manager.
-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
assurance society limited,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765— assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— equitably distributed.
Head Office-:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West&South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE'! .
GEELONG :
PORTLAND 1
WARRNAMBOOL J J
Peregrine, Saturday, May 12, X p.ru.
Buninyong, Tues., May 15, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Slay 19, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., May 15, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., May 15, 5 p.m.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Saturday, May 12, 12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., May 15, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., May 19, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Saturday, May 12, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., May 19, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT i
GERALDTON [
CAIRNS. &c. (
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Carjro
booked throuirh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Tickets interchangeable with all Intercolonial Companies.
Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Trustees, CxcctitorS,
. AND
AgsoCY Conjpaijy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED Jt‘lso,ooo 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 81st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital
£3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4.800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4 ’OOl .. £3,136,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J. P. ; lion. W. 11. Entitling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.'
Genebal Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector: H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
He?i Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Ait.ln-.r Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jiishopsfjnte Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GIfiOKGE 'STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Hay market, Goeford with airency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
1,950,000 0 0
1,200,000 0 0
1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0‘
Directors:
James -Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, lisq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Norm and MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office-Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Business Announcements.
Season—l9oo.^
HAYING made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Lady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy MSeStons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming Mailboat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
_____ Shipping
TN€ ABCRD€€N LIH€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for N ATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows :
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
“carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
___ AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
VIA AMERICA
“ by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE*
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samca), Honolulu and San Fran*
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union SI earn Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Puddings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 16 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“IM.D.L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFI'ER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHEIt LLOYD.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
PRIMUS
BATH
HEATER.
For KEROSENE. A Hot Shower immediately .
7 5
m
t
. . HOT WATER INSTANTLY . .
No Chimney Pipes or Plumbers’ work required in fixing.
You can fix it yourself. NO FUMES. NO SMELL.
PRICE : With 2-Burner Kerosene Gas Stove—without
Shower, 755. ; with Shower, 955. Price with 3or 4
Burner Kerosene Stove, 10s. per Burner extra.
“ PRIMUS” ROOM WARMERS can be fitted to any Kero-
sene Gas Stove. Price (made of Steel), 15s. each ;
Brass, 255.
BRANDT BROS
236 PITT STREET,
' SYDNEY;
And 422 and 424 Elizabeth-st., MELBOURNE.
v Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
Express Passenger Service
—TO AND FROM —
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FSPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Marloo (from
• Melbourne), Tuesday,
May 22.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Ointra, Friday,
May IX.
Best tt' Cheapest ltoute to Goldfields,
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. INI. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maokay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCK HAM I*TON—Bi-weekly, via Porta.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norinanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
JPaaaent/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SEMJSX-Bttnw. Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MEL BOURNE—A. U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Ooy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Porta
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
— -VAVA/V/11 *.£>« 1U L/U.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to fcllO.
Return Ticlfets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAYVNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
Huddart, parker $ (Jo’s [ine
MELBOURNE,
LAUNCESTON,
HOHA ltT,
WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORT&
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Eight and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Pniuiraith, |||‘|jacharnB go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
ANI)
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'ilwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address —467 Coll ins-street.
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract «ilhthe
French Government, calling at MKLBOUBNK, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and POUT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them everyassistanee
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First SaiooQ between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent


In Westralia Judges still use the black
cap when sentencing prisoners to death. Judge
Stone put it on the other day at the conclusion of
that most remarkable case in which a miner was
found guilty of attempting to murder his mate by
dropping things on him down a shaft.
HAVE YOU
ABADLEC
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
finger on the inflamed part it leaves the imprcs-
!!?’ under , t l' e skin you have poison that defies ail
the remedies you have tried, which, it not extracted, you
Sr, erc „ aU v recover - bu t K° on suffering till death releases
~ ?P S y°ur knees are Swollen, the joints being
U,.^ r K te< ) ’ i sam ® w *th the ankles, round which the skin
U? discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
„.iil° v t 0 cont ‘nue will deprive you of the power to
, °,". ma y nave attended various hospitals and had
aHvlio*! ♦ allvl K e ' •? nd bcen told your case is hopeless, or
mi'S vVvTT Übl T U 1 t 0 amputation ; but do not, lor I CAN
Other. W U ; 'l 0 ? 1 8 “y Perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
& haVef ? llcd s no rea6on for not now being cured,
oena at once for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
rr!j,', C .e.« r? i? n er i a 'n remedy for the euro of Bad Legs,
ll.nfi. a r d 8 Knee * Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Bimini. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
pjft. and n R, l*Kw?rm. Of all Chemists, Stores
AI BFRT ’ IRrl,aln ' 1/lSd. per b..x. Prepared by
, 7^„?. a " lD ? doil - 8tr ‘‘ e t. London, England,
look for’ 1 ft? i., Sydney. Purchasers should
•r».r. f ? i*ft e re 8 1 »tered trade mark of the (irasshopper on a
green label on vach box. (Regil. copyright). VV
HAIR
EAu
Wealth of
hair is wealth
indeed, espe-
cially to a
woman.
Every other
physical at-
traction is
secondary to
it.
If your hair
is too thin or losing its luster,
get—
Growth
be c omes
. vigorous
and all
dandruff is
removed.
mm
N&ir
visor
It always restores color to
gray or faded hair. Retain
your youth; don’t look old
before your time.
Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla puri-
fies the blood and clears the
complexion.
Prepared by
Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
CHEAP AND FASHIONABLE TAILORING. '
("'J G. HATTE, of King-street, Newtown (near Sydney,
• N.S. W.), has recently made great additions and im-
provements to his Tailoring Department, which is now one
of the features of his extensive business. He receives regu-
lar shipments, from his Home buyers, of all the newest and
most fashionable goods, and has one of the smartest cutters
in the colony Everything is made to measure on the pre-
mises; a perfect fit is guaranteed, and patrons may rely on
every satisfaction being given. Self-measurement forms
and patterns sent free by post. Hatte’ssuits of Indigo serge,
all-wool tweeds, and sergerettesfwith extra pair of trousers
given in) for 42/- are the marvel of tailoring and the talk of
Australasia. For 50/- Hatte makes a suit of tweed or serge
fit for a prince. Inspect or send for patterns of his new
woollens, comprising vicunas, West of England, Scotchand
Blarney tweeds, at 57/6, and 65/- ; the great value offered.
Hatte makes a smart Chesterfield overcoat from meltons,
vicunas, and Venetians from 45/-, and the new paddock
coat, with full back, side vents, crescent pockets, silk-faced
and velvet collar for 55/-. Hatte’s speciality is in dress-
suits, starting at £3 3s, made of purple dye elastic coating
with silk-facing. For excellence of material, perfect fit,
latest fashion, and superior workmanship, Hatte is un-
equalled, whilst his charges are at least 30 per cent, under
those of ordinary city tailors.
•‘l’ll Try If
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
toanypartof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. «d.
Sole Agents:
:
The Reeu.lt.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 Gdorge-st,, Sydney
AMUSEMENT for OLD and iOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondike Gruh (which causes roais of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (pan be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of ail), Wizard
fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Rack of Cards (ean be
changed as you p)ease, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s, fid.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X710J4 grid 7JB George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Bubonic Plague
f
REGISTERED.
Can be Prevented
By Using
ECKERSIEY’S
jljsnthoiine.
All Chemists.
Large Size 2/6 ; Small 1/-
Wholesale from
Australian
Co.
A snowy-haired, rag-attired old “vag.,”
charged recently at Dunedin (M.L.), said he had
spent 50 years in Otago district, and was reduced
to sleeping out and living on school-children’s
lunch-scraps. When asked why he hadn’t availed
himself of Seddon’s old-age pension, the ancient
turned out never to have heard of such a thing.
Also he hadn’t heard of Seddon. After the beak
had got his breath back he remanded the old man
to see what could be done for him.
“ Bondingie ” discourses to The Bulletin
on certain Melbourne charity matters :
The W.C.T.U. and the Y.W.C.A. have been trying to
explain away the blocking-out of the unfortunate girl,
Maggie Heffernan, and her infant, and would have done
far better had they left the subject severely alone. Who
was the statesman that said, “ Explanations are a sign of
weakness ” ? Anyhow these two organisations are not the
only ones of the sort in Melb. A decent old man recently
landed at the Salvation Army’s Metropole in King-street,
after a twelve-mile walk without food, and was point-blank
refused a crust unless cash was planked down. Another
night, about three weeks ago, a young married woman and
her two-months-old child, residents of a country town,
were left stranded in the city at midnight, owing to the
I mother’s purse having been lost or stolen. A friendly
j constable took them to the Salvation Army’s woman’s
shelter, ironically called “ Hope Hall,” in Exhibition-st.,
and was met with a demand for 3d. The constable ex-
plained the circumstances, but Booth’s myrmidon was
firm, and stuck out for the cash down. The policeman
had no money himself, but waited until a comrade came
along, from whom he borrowed a shilling or two.
Then the Salvationist started to open the gate, where-
upon the constable in terse and vigorous language ordered
him to shut the blanky gate. “ Call your place a shelter? ”
he observed. “Anybody will provide a shelter who is
paid for it. You can shut your gate and go to ! ”
And he strode off with his charge to a coffee-palace, leav-
ing the astonished religionist aghast.
' “ T.S.”: Saw a touching spectacle theother
night.. Was climbing up the long hill from the
wharf in a Sydney marine su bu rb and a certain dru ll k
was ambling on the same road with the uncertain
feetof him who has bearded the long beer in its lair.
The hour was 10.55, and it was a quarter-mile from
the wharf to the hotel at the hill-top. The drunk
faced, the hill with the energy of a man walking
for his life, though as he bobbed all over the street
and sometimes put his feet down Just where they
had been before he lifted them, his progress was
slow. Thirty yards from the top of the hill tho
clocks struck eleven and there was a crash—it was
one half of the pub-door closing. The ambling
one gave a heartrending shriek and ran like the
wind, dropping his hat as he went. He was just
one foot from the portal when the other half of the
door also banged and tho key turned, and though
ho arrived against the house with a crash the blind
unsympathetic obstacle took no notice. Then he
evidently remembered another pub 50 yards
further on. Its lamp was still burning, and he
scuttled for it like an ostrich. He wasn’t three
feet from it when its door crashed also, and though
he dashed blindly up against it, it moved not an
inch. He cried out through the keyhole “ Get a
bloke a drink ! ” but there was no answer. Next he
looked down the road. There were two more
lamps burning—-apparently two more pubs, that
were keeping open a few minutes beyond time.
If he could get there before those lights went out
there was still hope, so he girded up his thirst and
ran as man never ran before. I went down to see
how he got on. One lamp hung above a police-
station ; the other bore an inscription, “J. Bone-
smash, surgeon.” Dr. Bonesmash had been roused
out in his pyjamas and was listening to a hatless
man who said he had been seized with all the
diseases that spirits were good for. I think Bone-
smash took him in and treated him for snake-bite
received on Circular Quay, and charged him 10s.
6d. It was one of life’s little tragedies.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
At every International Exhibition since 1851, wherever
it has been in competition.
SOAP
ilas invai iably been awarded the Highest Distinction at
the disposal of the Judges.
The Testimony of Eminent Analytical
Ch emists:
Prom Dr. REDWOOD, Pli.D.,
P.1.C., F.C.S., &c.,
Late Professor of Chemistry and Pharmacy to the
Pharmaceutical Society of Great llritain.
“My analytical and practical experience
of Pears' Soap now extends over a very
lengthened period —nearly 50years—during,
which time l have never come across
another toilet soap which so closely realises
my ideal of perfection; its purity is such
that it may bo used with perfect confidence
upon the tenderest and most sensitive skin
—even that of a new born babe.”
CHAS. R. C. TICHBQRNE, Esq.,
LL.D., P.1.C., P C S.,
Lecturer on Chemistry at Carmichael College of
Medicine, Dublin, and Chemist la the Apothe-
caries' Uall of Ireland.
“I have made three separate and in-
dependent analyses of Pears’ Soap, obtain-
ing the samples myself at the ordinary
retail shops, and from these examinations
lam enabled to certify to its purity. It is
made in a most perfect manner, and is free
from any oninticity—to persons of delicate
skin a question of vital importance. Being
free from all adulteration with water its
durability is really remarkable. I cannot
speak too highly of it, for it strikingly
illustrates the perfection of toilet soap.”
STEVENSON McADAM, Esq.,
PhD., &c.,
lecturer on Chemistry, Surgeons' Hall,
Edinburgh, Scotland.
“ T have made careful analyses of Pears’
Soap, which 1 have obtained indiscrimi-
nately at different shops in Edinburgh,
and loan certify to its being a pure and
genuine soap, free from admixture with
any foreign substances, and practically
devoid of causticity. It combines detergent
with emollient properties in a high degree,
and it may therefore be used with great
advantage for toilet and bath purposes,
especially in the case of children and others
whose skin is soft and delicate, and liable
to bo affected by the impure and caustio
nature of ordinary soap.”
The Jolliest
Book of the Year
Price 6s.
Post Free.
ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Ruder."
J-Ulenburys Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys”
The “ Allenburys ”
Milk Food no. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Pood No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of life.
Complete Foods,
STERILIZED, and
needing: the addition of
hot water only.
The “ AHenburys” Malted Food No. 3
For Infanta over fix months of ape.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET OH INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
THE MHVER’S GREAT WAPJT
NOW SUPPLIED BY THE
“ Koersiz Patent Klondyke Hisartz Orusti®rs a ”
Which render the miner independent of Battery-power, and enable
him to realise on his gold from day to day.
This is a very superior machine, capable of being worked by hand, horse,, or other
power. It does its work admirably. Will crush to any size, or reduce to the ii nest
powder. Two men can put through 10 to 12 cwt. ; and, if using horse-power, one
ton per day can be crushed. The complete machine weighs 7cwt., but can be taken
apart, and is then readily portable. No. lis a smaller machine at £l5. No. 3 with
a capacity of two to three tons per day, price £6oi
The Prospector’s Crusher.
No, 1 at £3 and No. 2 at £5, leave nothing to be desired for
testing small quantities of stone.
FREDK. MASON 9 SOLE AGENT.
Also for
Koerstz Pumps for Mining and ail other purposes.
237 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
nm
The No. 2 Miner’s “Klondyke” Crusher, Price


EAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY, ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
RICHMOND, VICTORIA ;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
THE REMARKABLY PERFECT Dust-proof
Oil-retaining; Bearings that are a feature of the
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE make it the Easiest-
running of Man-propelled Machines, just as it is
the Handsomest.
Factories—Toronto. Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
T J. M'BRIDE, General Manager for Australasia,
MELBOURNE.
F. L. BISHOP, Manager for New South Wales,
SYDNEY.
Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CUBE YOUE
IfyfUiefyza Codgb.
X
//
A Fatal Spider Web,
When a fly gets accident-
ally caught in a spider’s web,
the spidor calmly goes about
the work of securing his
prey. He doesn’t hurry par-
ticularly ; he takes his time
and binds first the flv’s feet
and then his wings and his entire body. That is
the way with the dread enemy of mankind —dis-
ease. It has a web—the web of trivial disorders
neglected. When a man heedlessly stumbles into
that web he must be careful. The stomach is most
liable to get out of order. Hence how important
that no diseased matter clog its operations, which
would cause nausea and distress by the taking of
food. If not attended to, a thousand ailments are
ready to rise, caused by impurities being carried
through the whole system by the blood. What
you want is something that will keep the digestive
organs in a healthy condition, and unclog, or carry
away, all impure matter. That something is Dr.
Morse’s Indian Hoot Pills; they cleanse the
stomach, make the appetite healthy, the digestion
perfect, the liver active and the blood pure.
“I or many years I have been a victim to severe
indigestion, dyspepsia and loss of energy. I tried
many medicines,” writes Mr. Dwyer, Fernmount,
N.S.W.; “ some would make me feel well for a
day, and then I would be as bad as ever. There
was a constant mist before my eyes, and like a baH
of fire in my breast. 1 had almost given up trying
remedies, but I was induced to try one dose of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and I can inform you I
was agreeably surprised in finding they acted un-
like other medicines so often taken by me. I im-
mediately purchased a bottle, and since taking
them I can speak from experience, and now re-
commend them as a cure for indigestion. They do
not cause griping or pain, and seem to build up
the whole system, at the same time clearing it of
all bad substances.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, cure Biliousness, Indigestion, Constipation,
Dyspepsia, Headaches, Liver and Kidney Dis-
eases, Boils, Pimples and Blotches. They are un-
like other medicines —they do not weaken—and as
a cure for Female Ailments they are unequalled.
Sold by chemists and storekeepers, Is. per
bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.: Australian Depdt, 58
Pitt-street, Sydney. There is another web, and
not a spider’s web, but the web of so-called “nerve
tonics.” Look out for that web; do not stumble
into it. Cunning weavers, they would bind you.
Once you start their use then there is danger
ahead. They may appear to do you good while
you are taking them (so does whisky), but stop
their use, then comes the reaction. They would
have you bound to their use like the spider binds
the fly.*
“ Despite the efforts of the Public Health
and other authorities, it looks as if the plague
were gaining a firmer hold than ever on Sydney,”
writes a well-known medico to The Bulletin.
“Prof. Anderson Stuart’s prophecy of a further
four months of it, rather under—than over—states
the case. The history of the Sydney outbreak,
with its gradual development through the rats to
the mild form in man exhibited by the Dawes
Point case (probably with numerous unnoticed
cases of irregular glandular swellings), on thence
to a rather severer form, and then to a dangerous
type, is identical with that of epidemics in
Bombay and Hongkong, and even with ac-
counts of the Great Plague of London. The
place is thoroughly infected—plague is alone all a
place disease —and a sudden jump of the cases to
perhaps fifty a day would not be surprising to
anyone who has studied the subject. The bacillus
is capable of infecting the soil to a depth of seven
or eight feet at least, and when this is done it
must run its course until it dies out, either by fire
or by atmospheric heat. Contrary to the ordinarily
leceived opinion, plague tends to be killed by hot
weather, not cold. The outbreaks on the Volga
in 1878-9 and at Osaka in Japan were at theii
worst when the snow lay thick. In Bombay the
hot weather always brings a diminution of the
plague. Heat is the natural enemy of the disease,
and until Sydney is burnt, or the summer comes,
the plague will probably continue, running its
course very likely to a general outbreak of the
pneumonic form with a markedly heavy death-
rate.”
n
The CRIMSON BICYCLE.
Every Cr/njsorj Wljee/ is either a RED BIRD.
Or else it is endeavouring to sleigh ride on Red Bird reputation. Don’t be deceived into buying a
bicycle “as good as,” and refuse any but the real thing itself; repair shops and village smithies now
make bicycles. At least they buy a set of fittings for a few shillings and put them together. They
look like cycles, but no experienced cyclist would ride one unless paid to do so
Don’t be led away by commission men who may try to sell you the products of repair shops and plough
factories. Buy a cycle of known quality made by a firm of 23 years’ experience in building bicycles only.
Manufactured, Sold
and Guaranteed
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Hgents—everywhere.
by
Che 6oold Bicycle Co., Ctd.
Australasian Branches : 64 King-st., Sydney, Head Office in Australia.
261 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st., Wellington, N.Z.
“ We will take your old mount as part payment, at a liberal valuation.
Telephone, 3160.
SPOUTING NOTIONS.
S.A. J.C. Autumn meet opened at Morphett-
ville, Saturday. Unfavorable weather marred the atten-
dance. Tote registered £11,643, as against £13,478 last
year. Chief event (Goodwood Handicap), 6 furlongs, went
to Ranfurly by Eiridsford—Nina (9.4 up). W.A. nag
Aqua started a hot favorite, £767 going on him. Zalinski
filly Lyddite came next with £579, then Stagelight. Last-
named two ran second and third. Only £32 went on
Ranfurly, who, barring Ybraw (£3O), was the rankest out-
sider of the lot. Trainer Scobie’s explanation was that
Ranfurly had done no good, worth mentioning, on the
track, and owned a suspicious-looking off-leg ; besides,
Lyddite and Stagelight looked too well. Ranfurly got
away badly, and turning into the straight could not be
seen, but coming hard below the distance he overhauled
the leaders and won comfortably. Div. was £lO3 13s.—
the biggest ever paid since D.O.D.’s sensational scoop 19
years ago. Timejl. 15) is a record for the race. Previous
best was Australian’s 1.15 2-15ths. Forest did it in 1.15 J
last year. Royal Artillery (8.10), heavily backed, won
S.A. Stakes (7 fur.) after a great finish with Malleolus.
Tote paid £1 12s. —£1389 odd going through. Neckersgat
—Lady Lovelace nag (8.10) won St. Leger by three-
quarters of a length from -Gunga Din, and with £1512 in-
vested, paid £2 10s. Party behind Rupert Clarke’s
gelding Paul Pry made no mistake in Elder Stakes ; he
carried £717 15s. Sensational Westralian Tarquin was
next best pot, while Yeneda carried £458. Nothing had a
hope against Paul Pry, who won in a canter by six
lengths. Machine showed £2429 10s. ; div. was £2 14s.
* * • *
Sporting men will much regret the departure of
Humphrey Oxenham. With the nerve and heart of a man
in a million, he was the most daring layer of odds in Aus-
tralia—no matter whether punting on his own horses or
against the “field.” His own horses, when fit, carried
enormous money, and the owner’s opinion was generally
justified by the event. His horses have won classic races
in N.S.W. and Vic., notable being Waterfall’s win in Caul-
field Cup, Cabin Boy’s in Y.R.G. St. Leger, and Cerise-and-
Blue’s in Sydney Cup. Writer will not soon forget how once,
when “ Oxy’s” beautiful mare, The Gift, was engaged in
a big handicap at Randwick, the owner had laid liberally
against the other horses in the race, and had also backed
the mare heavily with the other “ books.” Coming up
the straight The Gift shot out from the others, where-
upon Oxenham closed his bag and shouted, with joy
and confidence, “ Come on, my beauty 1 ” The mare won
comfortably.
• • • •
“Tout ” : The popular leviathan penciller Oxen-
ham’s send-off at Tatt.’s (Sydney) on Friday night last was
a big thing. Sports and social lights of all degrees
assembled in force, and drained magnums of Mumm ad
lib, while busy waiters kept chain-smokers going at a
great gait. Tom Slattery did splendidly as chairman ;he
hadn’t prepared a speech, he said—and proceeded
to refer to “ Oxy ” as a man, a sport, a book-maker, a
horse-owner, a citizen, a father, and in a dozen other
capacities, and then sat down. P.M.G. Crick followed,
opening up characteristically : “Mr. Chairman, Mr. Oxen-
ham, and fellow-ruffians ! ” “ Ooh ! ” yelled the crowd.
This mightn’t have been much out as far as many were
concerned, but they didn’t like it put so straight. Crick
told how he meant to have the wings of the A.J.O.
clipped, and brought forth a volley of cheers ; the sting
conveyed by the term “ ruffians ” was at once for-
gotten. The A.J.O. is the mortal enemy of horse-
owners, Mo, and jockey alike. “ Look at the way poor
Mat Harris was treated !” said the speaker, emphasising
the remark with a resounding thump on the table, and
adding, “ a more honest rider never threw leg over a
saddle,” or words to that effect. Then the P.M.G. pro-
ceeded to refer to the Frank Fielder case the other day.
Both the references called forth cheers from some, ironi-
cal laughter from others, while a third section winked its
other eye with a big wink. “ How long are we going to
stand this star-chamber business?” asked W.P.C., with a
glare round the room. The throng of sports applauded
once more. “ I say Mr. Oxenham has been treated badly
by the A. J.C.” ; then another bang on the board and a
pause for applause. Might be remarked that the bad
treatment of “ Oxy” was the A.J.C.’s action with regard
to town betting-shops.
Mo was asked to choose between the shop or the
paddock, leger and flat; everyone but “Oxy"put his
shutters up and exposed the legend “To Let” ; Oxy
wouldn’t close and consequently had to leave the bag off.
Seeing what a demonstration was made against the
A. J.C. on this occasion one cannot help wondering what
might have happened had that august body done its duty
more thoroughly. Forgot to say that some very influential
people present appeared to think the time has come when
Parliament should legislate in the interests of all followers
of the turf (including touts, guns, whisperers, guy-a-
whacks and tale-slingers, as well as others who affect
horse-racing) apparently on the ground that the game is
as much their living as the laborer’s daily work is his and
they have an equal right to protection. This is something
distinctly new. “ Oxy’s ” say was the best of the lot be-
cause it was genuine ; he got a bit thick in the speech once
and referred to the chairman as Mr. “ Flattery,” which
fitted the state of affairs admirably.
Interviewed the other day, Metallician Hum-
phrey Oxenham—was there ever a more English name !
now on his way ’Ome, said that before leaving for Eng-
land six years ago he never had less than a £40,000 or
£50,000 book on Melb. Cup. In Glenloth’s year he laid
£7OOO against the winner, and won £30,000 on the race.
Malvolio swamped £43,000 of his banking-account, yet he
had a “fair ” win, and this after losing a big lump punt-
ing on his own nag, Forty Winks. Bad as times turfy
are now he always has a £25,000 book on the Cup ; last
year he laid £25,000 against the winner, and lost compara-
tively nothing. After reading this, one finds himself
wondering why Oxenham goes to England to ply his call-
ing, why he isn’t a Vanderbilt or a Jay Gould, and why
he doesn’t retire straightway and live on the fat of the
land. The interviewer conveys the information to a
thirsting public that “ Mr. Oxenham is against the totali-
sator Ikey’s bogey—the thing he sees hanging over his
bed night after night. Mr. Oxenham’s objection to
the tote is that it “more widely distributes the taste
for gambling, it concentrates the money in the
hands of the racing clubs, and the money invested
doesn’t get the same chance of going into general
circulation. If a bookmaker wins,” says Oxy, “he
spends. He doesn’t hoard up. He lives well, he
keeps a staff, he entertains, he speculates. So that
the money which comes into his hands rapidly finds its
wuy back again amongst the public.” Of course it does—
that’s why so many one-time big punters are paupers
now, and also why so many of them have committed
suicide. “ Fortunately for provinces like Maoriland and
S. A., ’’says the current number of the Australasian, in
an art c e on racing in Adelaide, “ the totalisator relieves
the cluos of all difficulty in regard to stakes. With the
betting profits going towards the support of racing, in-
stead of into the pockets of the bookmakers, there is
never any trouble about stakes.” Place this alongside
“ Oxy’s ” view. There’s certainly very little spend about
the brand of Mo. we have with us now, and, as for his not
hoarding up, well, ask the banks how readily he accepts
the lowest rate of interest for his money and what a huge
amount he, collectively, has at fixed deposit ?
♦ • * *
Kelso’s game old gelding, Newman, who so often
did his late owner a good turn, is heard from again. At
Mr. HUMPHREY OXEN HAM, the
Leviathan Bookmaker.
Photo, by Eden.
Q.T.O. meeting last week, with 7.11 in saddle, he was
absolutely last among May Day Cup field of 10. Looked
as if those who have the great old ’un now were going to
run him in the ostracised ranks a little while back, for his
name figured among Forest Lodge (Sydney) entrants.
About time the ancient had a spell: he was foaled 12
years ago.
* * * *
“St. Albans” Wilson, who has again been
dangerously ill, doesn’t date his racing enthusiasm from
the time he made his big Broken Hill “ punch,” and was
able to become an owner. In the early eighties he was
sec. of the Pt. Augusta Jockey Club, which he helped to
make one of the most flourishing in S. Aus. It still has
an annual meeting, with a £lOO cup.
* • » »
It was at the sale of the late Mat O’Shannassy’s
stud that W. R. Wilson picked up La Carabine for 210
guineas—about the luckiest investment he ever made.
Malster at the same sale fetched 810 guineas as a yearling.
* • * •
Up to now the sires Bill of Portland and Lochiel
are running close with winning progeny. Lochiel’s have
gathered in 72 races and £12,827 in stakes, while 217
events have brought £11,638 to Bill of Portland’s get.
Carbine’s offspring show 32 races, worth, in the aggre-
gate, £8361 ; Malua’s got £6746 for 63 races ; Gozo’s 37
races and £4898 ; Grand Flaneur’s 18 races and £l5ll ;
Metal’s 45 races and £lOl4 ; and Pilgrim’s Progress 28
races and £3730. Sunrise sired the greatest number of
winners (80), but the money only totalled £3285.
* * • *
H.R.H. Albert Edward was well advised when
he bought Perdita 11. for breeding purposes. Four years
ago Persimmon, by St. Simon-Perdita 11., won the Derby
and other rich classic races for the stout gentleman whose
jockey is arrayed in purple and gold. Diamond Jubilee,
an own brother to Persimmon, has given H.R.H. another
sweetener by taking the Two Thousand Guineas, and the
colt is now first favorite for the Derby. Some people
have a notion that these good things are made easy for
“ Wales ” by the other horse-owners. One hears men say,
“ I suppose they let him win ! ” The conjecture shows' a
profound ignorance of the fact that owners in general—
dukes, lords or otherwise—are just as hungry for fat
stakes as any member of the Royal Family.
* « * *
Last Yankee mail files tell of the death of the
Australian nag Trance who was brought to the States
with Melb. Cup winner Tarcoola. Cause of the mare’s
departure from these parts was disqualification for life by
Q.T.O. Appears she was found with her leg broken be-
yond hope of repair and, being due to foal to the American
sire Ruinhart, a clever vet. chloroformed her and a filly
foal was “ from its mother’s womb untimely torn.” No
signs of life were apparent till artificial respiration had
been resorted to. At latest the little thing was running
about lively as a gazelle.
* * * *
Latest craze among Melbourne Ikeys, brought
about by the prevalence of the plague, of which they are
all in mortal dread, is a system of training so that the
germ-clogged pores most of which have, in some
instances, ceased to perform their functions—may be ren-
dered clear. Sweltering sweater-clad odds-merchants of
all types and degrees, accompanied by trainers, may be
seen waddling or lumbering along St. Kilda and Brighton
Beaches any morning about 9 o’clock. “ It’s good,” they
say, “ but that ‘ too, too solid flesh ’ takes a lot of
melting.” Big odds are offered that the tissue will hang
out longer than the inclination to get rid of it.
* • • •
“Hippo”: Spent a couple of afternoons at
Easter time watching the Hunters’Competition at Sydney
Agricultural Show. Twice round a quarter-mile track,
over eight jumps, at a-quarter pace, is the test for a
hunter; but here the jumps were at least 100yds. apart
and the turns at either end as sharp as a circus-ring.
Also, with but a couple of exceptions, the men-riders rode
jockey-fashion and seemed to think that themselves, not
the horses, were doing the jumping. Compared with the
lady-riders also, the men were careful almost to being
gingerly. But the women showed the dash and loose rein
which one expects to see in the hunting-field, letting
their horses jump free, and chancing the follow-on. Not
half-a-dozen of the alleged “ hunters,” by the way, looked
up to 12st. over four miles of country, even at half-pace ;
but the fact is that these “ Hunters’ Competitions ” are
mere hippodrome and gate-money.
* * * *
Australian billiard-champion Fred Weiss (at
Sydney, Friday and Saturday last) conceded 800 in 1500
to W. Parker, and won by 84. First night, Weiss’s best
breaks were 169, 73, and 58 ; Parker notched 47, 33, 35,
and 28. Scores at the close were : Weiss (in play), 750 ;
Parker, 1116. Game concluded next evening. Weiss
tacked 36 on to his unfinished break, and his best achieve-
ments subsequently were 136, 56, 54, 48, 44 (twice), and
40. Parker was nervous right through, but near the
finish built up 50 from what appeared “ safety.” Weiss
looks like picking up his old form again and doing some-
thing very much out-of-the-way this winter.
* * * *
“Old Timer”: Tweedie-Gaffnejr pug. match at
Golden Gate A.O. (Sydney), Saturday night, was a rough-
and-tumble under Lancashire rules (down your man when
and how you can)—kicking barred. When Tweedie or the
referee (latter in his eagerness to separate the two quickly)
didn’t send Gaffney to the boards, Gaffney went there
“on his own.” Dozens of times he looked longingly at
the passage to the street and would no doubt have been
out, quick and lively, but for the ropes and the interven-
ing solid mass of sweltering spectators. Each held the
other often and banged away—and it looked very much
as if Gaffney wanted to get out on a foul, but the referee
wouldn’t stand it and pleased the crowd by leaving Gaff-
ney there as long as possible so that he might get a bigger
supply of stoush ; the tenth 3min. saw him counted out
of the fight—*md perhaps the ring also.
* * • *
Coal-skinned Starlight’s falling-off—so notice-
able in his matches “ down under ” —was well emphasised
by mud-fat slow-moving Fred Preston’s defeat of him on
points in Melb., the other night. The black made the
pace a cracker for half-a-dozen rounds, and gave burly
Fred a hot time, but faded away to nothing afterwards.
That long spell teaching in M.L. did the black no good,
and his form and zest for the biz were not improved by
those subsequent lickings at ’Ome. Preston says he’ll
fight Felix now for the supremacy of the continent, and
Felix’s backer (McClain, erst of the McAdoos) is willing to
wager £5O. But up to now no match has been made, and
will not be as long as a side-bet is insisted upon.
* Joe Rocks”: I have watched half-a-dozen pugs
trying to bash O. Cribb on that basaltic jaw of his, or, for
a change, endeavoring to stave-in his oak-cask ribs —but
O. Cribb doesn’t break easy. His stops and guards are
good enough up to his eyes —they wouldn’t be of much
use higher up, which is where ducking comes in, and
OC. is no Griffo at getting under ’em. The man of his
own weight who beats Cribb will probably do it by strict
attention to that vulnerable-looking temple of his, and the
trick Otto has of keeping his head down and edging close
up will, sooner or later, supply just the opening wanted.
» * * «
Worboys-Tressider seulling-ra.ee over “Terrace”
course (3 miles), Hunter River (N.S.W.), last Saturday,
was reminiscent of the boom days of that sport. Four
thousand people looked on from banks and boats ; £l3O
was taken aboard the steamer following. Stakes, £5O
aside. Tressider, coached by Chris. Neilsen, on the Par-
ramatta, scaled 12st. ; Worboys, who had been under ex-
champion Peter Kemp’s mentorship for two months,
weighed 11.7. Former started a strong favorite —5 to 4
on, although Worboys had 15sec. start. Race was
down river on a sluggish tide. Tressider finished
first mile in 6mins. dead, and then eased up a
bit. Offers of 3 to 1 on were plentiful now. Half-mile
further Tressider spurted, and sustaining the effort,
caught his man at 2 miles (13.46). Worboys cried ago
soon after, and Tressider finished solus within a few secs,
of 22mins. Same two rowed over same course a year ago,
when Tressider carried 301b5., and landed the money just
as easily. He can now be backed against Jim Stanbury
or any other for a good stake and the Australasian cham-
pionship.
• • • »
Interprovincial 8-oar struggle takes place on
Brisbane River (Q.), to-day (Saturday). Result apparently
rests between Vic. and N.S.W. Vies, for the first time
went away without a coach or adviser and didn’t feel too
pleased over the fact either. Fault was their own ;
neither of the two they wanted could go, and there was a
split in the camp when any other was proposed. Practice
hitherto has been for the coach to be chosen by the V.R. A.
at same time as crew. Mother province sends a powerful
eight, whose chance looks rosy despite the fact that Bris-
bane critics accuse them of “bucketing” in their work.
S.A. reps, are a well-picked, taking-looking lot and may
prove dangerous, but that is hardly likely. Q. team
wrangled with each other and everybody at the beginning
and have been at it ever since ; hence they can’t be said
to hold a mortgage over the race, albeit they have a good
stroke in Watson who rowed in the Vic. (winning) Doat
last year.
• * • «
Sydney annual tennis tourney practically
ended Saturday. Doubles championship and challenge
pairs produced the best play ; other events were devoid
of interest because of one-sided ness. Rice won all-
comers' singles (championship of N.S.W.) and did excel-
lent work throughout, beating all opposition easily. Rice
is ambidextrous ; at cricket he bowls left and bats right
hand. Winners of doubles provincial supremacy (Curtis
and Dewhurst) showed a return to old form, and were
responsible for some perfect play. Lady-single champion
Miss Payten had little trouble in accounting for the
previous premier, Mrs. Cater (Miss Phoebe Howitt) in the
final, playing in dashing fashion throughout. Miss
Payten is a native of N.S.W., and learned her tennis
there. Miss Cliff and Mrs. Cater got away with the
ladies’ doubles supremacy. Ladies’ and gentlemen’s
challenge pairs went to Mrs. Cater and Gaden, who beat
Miss Payten and Dewhurst in the final easily. Gaden
shaped superbly, and set a hot gait from the start. Mrs.
Cater baffled the opposition completely and frequently
with splendidly-placed drives.
* * » *
N.S.W. bowling premiership was decided on
City green (Sydney) on Saturday. Strong (Balmain) met
Kotidio (Waverley) in the final, and former won—2l to 16.
Strong played brilliantly often ; laid his “wood’’down
capitally and confidently, and brought off some very fine
“draws.” Komlio was nervous for a few heads, but after
a bit pulled himself together and did well enough to have
16 notched to hjs credit while 1 less showed opposite
Strong’s name ; but latter immediately afterwards put 4
(every bowl he had) close round the jack and made 2 in
the following head, thus winning. The new champion is
a higher-class bowler than Kondio ; he got in some effect-
ive work, devoid of the slightest semblance of fluke, at
critical stages. As showing how in-and-out bowlin£ form
frequently is, it might be mentioned that Groth (St.
Leonards) who triumphed over previous champions—
Howe, Moran and Josephson—in this year’s competition,
was beaten by Kondio in one semi-final (21 to 12) and then
turned round and compiled 22 to 13 against Martin
(Waverley) who had in the second semi-final finished
within 3 of the ultimate winner, Strong.
* * •
Final of recent three-miles motor-paced tourney
at Melbourne Exhibition supplied a queer mix-up. Pace
was hot all the way, and resulted in a great struggle. F.
S. Beauchamp and It. Walne were the contestants. Latter
made a marvellous dash at the finish, and crossed the
mark at least half-a-yard behind Beauchamp, but excite-
ment sent the j udges off their balance, and they said
“dead-heat,” which was palpably wrong. Beauchamp
protested. Walne admitted in most manly fashion that
he was beaten. Argument demonstrated that the motors
and not the men had been judged; matters were then
placed right, but meanwhile Ikeys had paid “ half ” to
backers of each. Goodson showed fine form in the half-
mile championship, and ought to have had the ten-miles
instead of Shrimpton.
• * * »
“ Tangata ” : Despite a fat balance to credit of
the local Rugby Union, there are signs that football isn’t
going to “gee” this season in the South Island of M.L.
The chief reason for this is the “ Armit tragedy,” as it is
now termed. After his fearful accidental upending by
Bayley, in the Taranaki-Otago match, Armit lingered for
three months with a broken back—a marvel to medical
science. At the inquest, accusations were uncontra-
dictedly made by a local surgeon, an old “Glasca’ Green ”
player, as to the brutality of certain circumstances in con-
nection with the disaster, which accusations are likely
to stick, and operate to the disadvantage of the game
until a football generation arises that knows not Armit.
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony-from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
Mrs. Bridget Gavin, who formerly lived in
Murish Westport, and is now an inmate of the
Doncaster Workhouse, has seven sqns in the army.
Sons in army, mother in poorhouse! The two
ends of glory.
Concerning the reported ill-treatment and
neglect of prisoners at Pretoria, at least one of the
number, a seasoned South African police trooper,
writes out to his brother, a trooper in way-back
N.S.W., that the local men are all right—it is the
raw ’uns fresh from England who have suffered.
They, poor beggars, are no more used to that life
than Cronje and his fellow prisoners are to the sea-
board and seaside life which has been imposed
upon them; and no doubt the two lots have
suffered about equally.
A pen picture of Lord Methuen, by
Alfred Kinnear in his book, “To Modder
River”:—
He seems instinctively to suggest want of intellect and
physical proportions. He is visibly a man of nervous in-
definiteness. The twitching fingers, as they grasp that
forearm (held behind his back); the feverish alacrity of
gait, which some would call restless energy ; the earnest,
speculative trifling over infinitesimal details, all go
together to rob the gallant inventor of Methuen’s Horse
of that commanding repose for which you look in a strong
man. Lord Methuen is really a bit of a dilettante.
The Australian newspaper-men who used to meet
Methuen constantly at certain London Bohemian
clubs certainly wonder how on earth he ever be-
came entrusted with a big command.


What’s the Net Result
mn
Of all the pushing- and scrambling
for business? Is it success? . »
It all depends on the merit of the
article sold . ♦ .„«•••
QUALITY,
PURITY,
and FLAVOR
are all worth bringing under our
notice .*«•*•••••
THE NET RESULT of these is—
DERBY Tobacco,
and the Australasian public endorses this by purchasing
3,000,000 pounds annually.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY COMPANY.
187 Pitt-street, Sydney UT 187 Pitt-street, Sydney
(directly opposite Oivil Service Stores).
Our Hero Souvenirs.
mn
m
n
BADEN-POWELL.
Miniature (io.d Pendants, with portraits of War Heroes.
Each Pendant contains Two Photos. Price, 7/6.
Latest London Novelty.
THE MAFEKINO
SWORD OF DEFENCE BROOCH.
Price, 14/-
James Pain & Sons’ Imperial Royal Atlas Brand
. . . PRIZE LONDON . . .
FIREWORKS! FIREWORKS
QUEEN'S BIRTHDAY, 21th MAY. 45 Years before the Public QUEEN’S BIRTHDAY, 24th MAY.
MYERS & SOLOMON, Sole Agents, 42 Market Street, SYDNEY.
Send for Price List 1
The Kaiser, in forwarding to Viceroy
Curzon a large German gift to the Indian
famine fund, stated that “German contributions
to the Indian Famine Fund were. prompted by
Germany’s sympathies and love for India.” And
yet we had been always taught to believe that
Russia was the only country, apart from England,
that really loved India.
At the big Sydney Agricultural Show the
highest award for cutlery went, as usual, to Mr.
John Baker, of No. 3 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Mr. Baker now holds 45 first prizes, and it is be-
coming a serious problem where to store them.
His 1900 exhibit of steel ware completely eclipsed
anything ever before locally attempted, and his
gorgeous panorama of knives for killing, dehorn-
ing, scalping, skinning, eating, and performing
surgical operations on anything from tne bubonic
flea under the microscope to the mastodon on his
ice-berg has never been beaten in this continent.*
To The Bulletin from Rockhampton :
The recent bubonic outbreak in Rockhampton is a
strong commentary on the system of health-inspection
and consistent suppression practised|where the power of
dealing with such matters is directed by the commercial
element. When the s.s. Burwah lay at the Rockhampton
wharves during the Easter holidays, the fact of a sus-
pected case of plague on board was freely discussed in
town on the Sunday night, and yet 1000 excursionists
were allowed to board her on the following morning for a
pleasure-trip to Keppel Bay. The health-officer declared
that he could not let the excursion proceed, but tickets
were sold, and streams of people were permitted on
board for 50min. after, while the band played ’tween
decks, and the multitude nosed around in every room and
cabin in the boat. Then the band stopped, and word
was passed along in a casual way that the trip was
off, on account of an inconvenient case of plague.
The intending trippers growled a good deal, and
strolling off the boat in a languid manner, watched
her removal with the yellow flag at the masthead
to mid-stream. The operation was viewed by the throng
mostly from the cargo of potatoes and produce which had
only a couple of hours before been transferred from the
hold of the Burwah to the wharf. The stray facts leaked
out in the next day or two that large numbers of rats had
died on the voyage up, and that three were found dead
under the bunk of the man who had the plague, but as
the diseased rodents were heaved over the side as fast as
they died, and everyone enthusiastically forgot to men-
tion the incident, it was merely regarded as a coincidence.
Both dailies carefully headed their mention “ Suspected
Case,” and resolutely suppressed all mention of another
case which was known to exist. Probably the public of
the city of three S.’s would still have been left in blissful
ignorance that they were daily paddling through in-
fected areas had not the inevitable happened. The
evening paper congratulated the town on its lucky
escape due to the rigorous enforcement of the health
regulations, &c., but the trusting citizen got one
“on the point ” next morning to find that three
cases had developed during the night, and that
the largest hotel in the city was quarantined. The
“ suspected ” was dropped when it was learned that two
cases had been accommodated in the grounds of the
General Hospital for over a week previously. The earnest
desire to not disturb the weekly output of jam and cod-
fish from M'Dooley’s store—even when a deadly epidemic
is concerned—is as conspicuous up here as the bowsprit
of a ship.
The Bulletin has received “ The Adver-
tisers’ A.8.C.” from the publishers, Messrs. T.
B. Browne, of London, advertising agents for the
world. The present vol. is the 14th annual
edition, and is replete with a huge budget of valu-
able information about how to advertise, where to
advertise, and when, and how much it costs.
There is an alphabetical list of London and pro-
vincial papers showing the circulation of each;
and there are valuable articles on the laws affect-
ing advertisers and advts., and trade-marks, and
other things which it is necessary for the man who
buys advts. to know. Also, there is a com-
plete list of European, African, Asiatic and
colonial papers, and information which cannot be
found in the Directory can be obtained direct by
letter from the great firm which publishes the
volume.
News from Ladysmith : “ Talk about grati-
tude : Yesterday, I saw a big Scotchman saying
grace over a horseflesh sandwich.”
A well-known citizen of Malthusian ideas
made up his mind to limit his offspring to
four. When the third child, a girl, arrived
recently, he had her christened with the
euphonious name of “Penultima.”
TVIr. F. Gloncross Swift, of the firm of
Messrs. Swift and Co., general merchants, Spring
street, left Sydney per It.M.S. Arcadia on a busi-
ness trip to Great Britain and the continent of
Europe, in connection with the firm’s many
agencies.
The Melb. Stock Exchange smoke-night,
ostensibly given to welcome home Donald Mac-
Donald, the Akgus war correspondent, proved one
of the most distressing of fiascos. Instead of
giving Mac. the expected welcome on his safe
return, the committee deliberately set to work to
ignore their guest altogether, and pay one another
compliments wrapped up in “patriotic” gush.
The unhappy guest of the evening must have
wished himself back again at Ladysmith among
the Boers.
Thus Gov. Lamington :
From my knowledge of the agricultural resources of
Queensland, and my experience as landowner in Great
Britain, I am convinced that there is plenty of room in
the North for immigrants and also plenty of people of the
right sort on the other side of the land to secure that
development.
If Lord Lamington only knew it the great mass of
S. land suitable for settlement does not lie in the
orth (though Northern coast lands are fertile
enough) but in the South and the Centre—par-
ticularly along the seaboard and on the Western
downs—but the best of the country is locked up in
squattages and big estates patiently awaiting the
advent of a modicum of land reform.
The starchiness of the Jap.:—
Quite a little diplomatic incident occurred over the
arrival of the Jap. training-ship Hi-Yei at Melbourne
from Sydney. The Melb. Health authorities had insisted
upon a strict inspection of the crew by the Port Health
officer, while the Acting-Consul, a solemn little Jap. who
officiates in the absence of Mr. Marks, intimated that such
procedure would be taken as a breach of international
courtesy. Diplomatic negotiations were going on for
several days before arrival, and some very lofty persons
indeed bore a hand. Finally, it was ruled that the ship
must submit, and the Consul solemnly agreed that
the war-ship’s chief surgeon should assemble and ex-
amine the crew while the local man looked on.
On arrival, Dr. Elkington, the Board’s special plague
officer, boarded, and was received in solemn state, but the
chief surgeon didn’t see the force of the arrangement,
and with many bows intimated that though it grieved
him to refuse he could not do more than give his state-
ment that all were all well. The Acting-Consul was sent
for, and duly mediated with a natural leaning towards
his compatriot’s views. Serious international complica-
tions were talked of. The H.O. was bland but firm—and
finally got his way, the crew being inspected. All likeli-
hood of a sanguinary engagement between the Hi-Yei
and the Cerberus was finally averted by a libation of Jap.
bock-bier, and with more bows the incident ended. It is
an instance of the increasing red-tapeiness of the Jap., as
in all previous visits of war-ships the inspection has been
made without question.
Crown-Pro3eeutor Finlayson, Q. 0., a re-
markably suave and deliberate lawyer, gets first
mention for Casey’s place on Vic. County Court
benoh. Doubtful, however, whether years of work
as official prosecutor, where Govt, always expects
a barrister to pot his man if possible, is the best
training for a judicial mind.
Writes “A.W.A.”
Dear B.—The appointment of N.S.W. Minister of
Justice Wood on the recommendation of Major-General
French to the honorary position of Acting-Commandant
of Ist Australian Horse, is not so hard to account for as
you would have us believe.
1. He has had an active and onerous position in the
Kegt. since its inception.
2. In Col. Mackay’s absence he has acted for him ; and
in this capacity had the difficult task of selecting the
squadron of A.H., which has done such good service in
S. Africa.
3. The departure of so many officers left him senior
officer of the Regt.
As Acting-Commandant, Minister Wood’s rank is not, as
suited by you, the rank of Colonel—but Captain on pro-
bation.
The letter of one Private Tnglis, published
in Vic. papers, says that he was shot through the
leg in a skirmish and left behind, whereupon two
Boers carried him into the shade and gave him a
drink. A third Dutchman attended to him till
the ambulance arrived an hour and a half later,
fave him water, biscuits and peaohes, and urged
im in bad English to keep his pecker up. When
the sun moved round so that the wounded man
was no longer protected, the Boer shaded him from
the glare with his own large body till the vehicle
came to take him hospital-wards. “He was a
really good chap ” said Private I. The letters
from the front are full of such stories but they are
printed in small type, and no big heading such as
“Christian Kindness of the Enemy” or “The
Boer shows himself a Real White Man as Usual,”
appears on the top of them. And the officially-
censored cablegrams, which have the big scare
headings attached, never mention these things.
The enemy lias to be shown as an individual that
no humane or decent Government could avoid
getting into war with.
Wool.—The opening of the next London sales
on the Bth Inst, is being awaited with considerable inte-
rest, and much speculation is rife as to the probable trend
of values. If the course of prices in the Bradford “ top”
market during the past month is any criterion to go by, a
a decline on the closing rates of the March sales is, unfor-
tunately, too apparent. The question of supplies, which
at one time was thought to be the strongest point in the
market, has now proved one of the weakest, as is evi-
denced by the fact that there are 202,000 bales (including
105,000 bales old stock) available for sale in London next
week, as against 185,000 bales last year, or 107,000 bales
more. So far as the local market is concerned, the posi-
tion is unaltered. Transactions by private treaty are
practically impossible, as buyers’ and sellers’ ideas of
values are widely apart, with the result that business is at
a standstill. Our next sale will be held on the 10th inst.,
by which date the London sales will have been in progress
a sufficient length of time to enable the market to settle
down and establish a range of values upon which to base
future operations.—New Zealand Loan and Mercantile
Agency Co., Ltd., Sydney, May 3rd, 1000.*
• • • •
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
Company, Limited, report on produce market for week
ending sth May, 1900 :—Sheepskins.—On Friday we
brought forward a large catalogue of very representative
quality, and found competition very brisk. Choice lines
of full, and half to full wools elicited a large amount of
attention, and clearances were not at all difficult to make.
Prices throughout may be quoted the same as in our last
report, viz. Full-wool merinos, 7fd. to Bid. ; three-
quarter growths, Oijd. to 7}d. ; half-growths, 6d. to 6id. ;
quarter-growths, 4 jd. to sj}d. ; pelts, lid. to 41d. Full-
wool crossbreds, fine to bid. ; half-growths, 4Jd. to 5Jd. ;
shorts and pelts, from ljd. to 4jd. Coarse crossbreds" are
worth 4jd. for ordinary good quality. Hides.—During the
week some fairly large parcels of Queensland hides have
been placed on the market, and consequently at Friday’s
sales the attendance of buyers was rather more limited
than usual. The market was a little irregular, but on the
whole must be quoted jd. per lb. lower. Tallow.—Good
qualities have maintained the position occupied by them
a week ago ; low and medium grades must be quoted from
2s. 6d. to ss. per ton lower. The demand was fairly keen
and extensive clearances were affected. Marsupial Skins.
—The usual sales were resumed last Wednesday, and we
brought forward the largest catalogue of the day,
totalling about 19,000 skins. Competition for all choice
descriptions ruled very briskly, and in several cases prices
showed an advance on the rates current a month ago.
Stocks of opossum skins were pot very extensive, nor is
the quality yet sufficiently good to enable us to form an
idea how representative grades are likely to rule during
the next few weeks. A firmer tendency, however, was
noticeable in this department, and every parcel was
cleared at prices which must be regarded as satisfactory.
Horns, Hair and Sundries.—A good demand prevailed at
the sales on Thursday for all descriptions of sundry pro-
duce. Hair was in particularly good request, as were
also horns of all weights. Shank and other bones and
g! u e-pieces show no change.
“A TRIP TO THE RACES.”
(Human Races).
“ IMPERIAL ” Bicycles for 1900 just landed,
fitted with Westwood steel rims and Dunlop tyres.
Agents wanted where not already represented in
Australasia. Write for catalogue. Buy your bicycle
from the factory at factory prices.
A few Second-hand Machines fitted with new tyres and in
good order, all of well-known makes. A post-card will
bring you a list. “Duck” brakes and carriers will fit
any bicycle. Oil and Gasoline Engines for launches,
electric lighting, pumping, cordial factories, printing and
general power, from 1 h.p. tosoh.p.
J. F. McDermott and Company,
Sole General Agents in Aus. for “ IMPERIAL ” Bicycles.
Central Depot—37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
iEjffKarKiontn!
iMisrra
niryT nr
the person >vho is not a millionaire, there is
1 ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Elis’ Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor
GEO. W. ELLIS.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8 sharp. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
NANCE O’NEIL SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
The Famous Historical Play,
“ ELIZABETH, QUEEN OF ENCLAND.”
Saturday, May 12, THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.
Plan, Nicholson’s. SS?~ PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Theatre royalT Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. R. BROUGH.
LAST FOUR WEEKS OF THE
BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY
LAST TWO NIGHTS!
HC E LI iV. R
SATURDAY, May 12, THE TYRANNY OF TEARS.
Matinee Every Thursday, at 2.
PRICES AS USUAL. .-. Box Plan at Elvy’s
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST SEVEN NIGHTS OF
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
including Miss DORA DE WINTON
and Mr. JOHN D. SAUNDERS,
in the Domestic Military Play, written by Ben Landeck,
A SOLDIER AND A MAN.
Prices as Usual. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.45.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampier.
CONTINUED SUCCESS OF
ALFRED DAMPICR CO.
SATURDAY, 12th MAY,
New Version of East Lynne.
FIRST APPEARANCE of Miss LILY DAMPIER since
her successful tour of Great Britain.
Y M.C.A. HALL, SYDNEY.
' Grand Classical Pianoforte Jlecitals.
MAY 16th and 21st, at 3.30 p.m.
Miss ELSIE HALL
First Recital, WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, May 16.
Plan at Paling’s, Admission—3s., 25., Is.
Concession to schools and students in parties of five on
presentation of teacher’s card.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
VICTOR. ~
ILLUSIONIST,
CONJUROR and
VENTRILOQUIST.
. . . Seven Night Season . . .
—COMMENCING—
Saturday, 19tl». JS/Ee^sr.
The new tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
Gigantic Success ! A Great Triumph ! The Greatest
Company of Stars ever brought together.
PAUL MARTINETTI and His Company.
BILLY McOLAIN and MADAM CORDELIA,
Mr. TOM BROWNE. THE NEWSKYS.
JAS. BAIN. DAVE OASTON. FKANCIE ADLER.
And all our Great Company.
BIJOU THEATR E, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
INSTANTANEOUS and EMPHATIC SUCCESS of the
Great Ludwig Amann
The Greatest Facial
Artist of the day.
Prof. ALMOND, Champion Specialty Dancer.
IRENE FRANKLIN, America’s Piquant Comedienne.
Mr. TOD CALLAWAY, LITTLE FANNY POWERS,
CHAS. SEEL, Miss MAUD NEEDHAM, Prof. DAVY’S
MARIONETTES, POPE and SAYLES, E. SULLIVAN,
DORA TAYLOR,and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
THIRD WEEK !
AND CONTINUED EXTRAORDINARY SUCCESS !
. THE LADDER OF LIFE •
Or, Gordons to the Front.
Specially Selected Company. Military Pageant. Storm-
ing of Dargai Heights. Acrobatic Sensation of the Age,
THE HUMAN LADDER.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FOURTH WEEK !
CHARLES AR.KTOL33
And His English Comedy Company.
340 Nights at the Strand Theatre, London.
“What Happened to Jones.”
Preceded by “ AN EMPTY STOCKING.”
IF IT HURTS YOU TO LAUGH,
DON’T SEE WHAT HAPPENED TO JONES.
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the sole management of Mr. William Anderson.
SECOND WEEK OF
THE IMMENSELY SUCCESSFUL NAUTICAL DRAMA,
NaQdS Across tbs Sea.
Mr. Alfred Woods, Miss Maud Williamson,
and a Powerful Dramatic Organisation.
PRICES: 3s, 2s, Is 6d, Is, and SIXPENCE.
Plan at Allan’s. Gen. Bus. Man., Mr. CHAS ENDE.
gT. GEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE.
>;“"rUSSELL BROS. MUSEE j=<
NEW WAXWORKS and AMERICAN VAUDEVILLE.
Prof. W. A. DAVIS,
and Complete Variety Co., Every Afternoon and Evening.
LAST NIGHTS of THE FLYING JORDANS.
ALWAYS OPEN TO ENGAGE OR PLAY ON
TERMS anything New and Good.
Manager, W. A. DAVIS.
gXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM.
WANTED some LIVE CROCODILES, over
15ft. in length. State Price, delivered alive,
and in good condition to
J. E. SHERRARD,
Secretary.
On Gur Selection :
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). Cloth
extra, illustrated, 6s.
m
HAS STOOD THE TEST
FOR AGES.
SAUCE
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Agents—VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.


ABE YOU ABOUT TO FURNISH?
You cannot do better than try HALL’S. They have the Largest
Stock in Australasia. Have you got one of our New Catalogues ? If
not, call or write for one. Posted Free. 72 Pages, 500 Illustrations.
Just Published.
HALL’S
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, m rich Genoa Velvet, with silk plush borders, viz., Settee,
selecTfrorn 1 ' 8 ’ 4 Carved Chairs, for 8 Guineas. Thirty Drawing-room Suites to
HALL'S
DINING : ROOM SUITE, very strong, covered in best American Leather; 6 Padded
Lea^!iei ha i0 S Gufneas COUCh ’ P&lr EaSy Chairs ' 6 Guineas. Ditto, in real Maroon
HALL’S
BEDROOM SLIIE, Polished Pine or Walnut Color; Wardrobe, with Plate-glass
w°d >' P“. clless Chest Drawers, with Glass attached ; Marble-top
Washstand, Towel Rail, and Chair, £6 15s. 1
HALL'S
BEDSTEAD, Brass Footrail, Double Wire Mattress,
and Set Best Wool Bedding. 4 Guineas. With best Kapok Bedding, £4 17s. Gd.
A. HALL & COMPANY,
The Universal House Furnishers,
501, 563, 565 & 567 George-st., Sydney (Brickfield Hill).
Goods Stored Free until required Country Orders Packed Free. Leave Tram at Liverpool-
street for Halls. Close—Saturdays, 9 p.m. ; Wednesdays, 1 p.m.
_A NOVELTY IN SAUCE.
99
(TRADE MARK)
SAUCE.
LIIVSaE-FRUIT
JUICE
The Basis of which is “ Montserrat ” LIME=FRUIT JUICE. *
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is found, forms a most convenient basis for Sauce, and we invite
a trial. It has been pronounced by connoisseurs to be the Best Sauce before the Publ l ';.
It is also half the price of first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery, writes so far back as 1617, in a treatise on Scurvy : —
I dare not write how good a sauce it (Lime-Juice) is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships
waste it in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AGENTS s
SYDNEY —Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.; E. Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
m
f-Wwm.
If'
A MERE |
iTEM OF I
ECONOMY
When YOU Consider that it takes only from six to eight
minutes to cook scones thoroughly, browning them perfectly
top and bottom without turning.
And it also COOKS A DINNER for a 4 large family at
a cost of about three farthings per hour, thus illustrating our
motto with force and clearness. In addition to the above it
Bolls, Stews, Fries, Grills, and Toasts Perfectly.
fiLv 10* f - i 2 _ tf? .u.m -ii.umUUUMMBSB , "
I Q€ PrmjClS \QICf COOKING APPARATUS
F °r Gl-AS or KKRQ3EJJK.
THEY DON’T TALK—BUT THEY MAKE OTHERS TALK.
Price
/INCLUDING PRIMUS LAMP)
VOR GAS BURNER - . J
No. 1, 72 s 6d ; No. 2,77 s 6d
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
NEW TUBELESS BURNERS.
CALL AND SEE THEM WORKING EVERY WEDNESDAY from 3 to 5 p.m.
. . AT . .
McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, LIMITED,
n=«.o j\r 3vco3xrc3-3E:^i.s.
512 and 514 GEORGE S ] REET, SYDNEY;
107 to 113 LLI/ABEI I[ STREET,-MELBOURNE; and MURRAY STREET, PERTH, W.A.
90 King Street, Sydney.
(Our Only Australian Address),
Ring* Manufacturers.
&
90 King Street, Sydney
(Our Only Australian Address).
Art Jewellers, etc., etc.
Our Rings are Unapproachable for Value
in the Southern Hemisphere
Send for our Illustrated Sheets of Latest Novelties.
5 Lovely Diamonds,
from
£lO to £4O each.
Smaller Stones,
from
£3, £4, £5, £7 10s.
: :
Solid Gold,
set with 5 Lovely
Opals,
Special Value, 15s.
18c. Engagement.
3 Fine Diamonds, £5.
2 Fine Diamonds,
with 1 Sapphire, Ruby,
Opal or Pearl,
£3 15s.
2 Diamonds and 3
Rubies or Sapphires,
from 55s to £lO.
Our QUERY RING
(Note of Interrogation).
18c., set with 11
Fresh-water Diamonds,
£8 and £9 10s.
14 Diamonds and
Ruby or Sapphire,
118 c. Gold, £7 10s.
18c. MARQUISE.
Set with 14 Diamonds
and 1 Ruby or
Sapphire, Emerald, or
Turquoise centre,
£4 43.
ISc. TWO HEART.
1 Fine Diamond, with
1 Ruby or Sapphire, 355.
2 Diamonds, 455.
18c. LA PARISIENNE.
2 Fine Diamonds, £5.
1 Fine Diamond,
with 1 Sapphire, Ruby,
Opal, or Pearl, £4.
18c. GIPSY.
3 Fine Diamonds, £2 ss,
£3, £4, to £lO.
1 Fine Diamond, with
2 Sapphires, Rubies,
Opals, or Pearls,
£l lss, £2 ss, £3.
5 LOVELY OPALS.
10c., 425., small size, 35s
15c., 505., „ 45g
18c., 555., ' ~ 50s
18c., 1 Diamond and
2 Rubies, or 1 Diamond
and 2 Sapphires, 45s ;
Smaller size, 30s.
18c. HALF-HOOP.
5 Fine Diamonds, £7los.
Smaller Stones.
£4, £6, £6.
18c. BAND RING.
1 Fine Diamond, 40s,
60s to 100 s.
Ruby or Sapphire,
30s, 465, 60s.
Opal or Pearl, 255, 40s, 50s
18c. Novelty CROSS
RING, 21s; with
7 Lovely Diamonds,
£5 ss.
9c„ 10s, 12s Gd, 15s, 20s
15c., 20s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
With any Name or
Motto, Is extra.
18c. TABLET.
1 Pine Diamond, with
2 Rubies or Sapphires,
27s 6d.
3 Fine Diamonds, 50s.
Any Name or Motto.
9c., 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
15c., 20s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
18c., 21s, 255, 30s.
Raised Gold Letters,
5s extra.
to
to
m
Q>
<0
to
£
*
8
s
K
m
%
1
95
m.
to
a
§
to
S
<5
9£
Nj
s
S 3
$
*
£
*
S 3
S
H
Solid Gold and
Lovely Opal, 15s.
Solid Gold, set with
5 Turquoise, 10s 6d, or
Pearl & Turquoise, 12/6;
5 Opals, 15/- and 21/-
Solid Gold and 3
Opals, 255.; Solid Gold
and 1 Opal, 15s.
18c. Single Stone.
1 fine Diamond, £lO.
Smaller stone,
£3 10s, £5, £7 10s.
Fine Diamond,
18c. Gold, £4; 15c.,
Ruby or Sapphire,
or Opal, 21s.
2 Diamonds and 3
Rubies or Sapphires,
from 555. to £lO.
6 Patterns,
18c., set with 1 fine
Diamond and 2 Rubies
or Sapphires, £6.
I8C7
18c. Single Stone.
1 fine Diamond, £10.
Smaller stone,
£3 10s, £5, £7 10s.
Lovely Opal,
9c. Gold .. 25s
15c. „ .. 30s
18c. „ .. 35s
Solid Gold Signet
Ring, set with Blood-
stone or Sardonyx, 9c.,
255; 15c., 37s 6d ;
18c., 455.
Curb Chain Ring'.
9c., 155., 20s.
15c., 22s 6d, 27s 6d.
18c., 27s 6d, 355.
All Widths in
Stock.
B&- POST FREE m
n
OUR WEDDING RINGS AND KEEPERS.
100 Patterns
in Stock.
ARE ADMITTED TO BE THE BEST VALUE IN AUSTRAITA
n ALL RINGS ARE STAMPED WITH THE ENGLISH ™IARK
GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths .. 5s 6d 7s 6d 10s 6d ' M Pa ~ h
15c. GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS, Four Widths I 9 s6d’l7s6d °2s 6d 97s firl pnnh"
18c. GOLD WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS’, Four widths !! lis, 20s 255, 32^ Id ekch
Solid Gold, 10s, with
Amethyst Pendant.
■tf.
Any Initial, 9s ;
without ditto, 7s 6d.
For Size of Finger send a Piece of Wire, or Hole in a Piece of Thick Cardboard.
We can make any style of Ring. Estimates and Design^j^


Hi"RaSSnjOSScij’S Alfaliijs Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug 1 .
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
,&k
k • *
( r. O. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness ot the virtues of tbs
Aifalino Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12,1888.
To Bbrr Rassmubskn.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you bow
your remedies have cured me.
1 Buffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALKALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
*8 well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
whiol completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and r am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
wliioj has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original oolor. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
Jo all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can he depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
Solatioa Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To llrrr Rassmubskn.
Dear Sir. —I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of my
'constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O'SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmubskn.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I Took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oeneflt as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Curod.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmubskn.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Alfaline Vitality l'ills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ' ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. t, ’O9.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Alfaline Blood Pills and Alfaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar -manner, and as a proof of my
gratitnde, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribkrt.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health Fiee.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr KASSMUSSEN,
647 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
os r oppi
mm
jig:
nTTunrirr. n i iitTiii f77i /i.i muTm in >
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
seli-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A-line VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure (or all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter bow caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. fkl., posted.
Speoial Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Aif aline BLOOD PILLS
will oure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. Bd. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is (id.,
35., and 65., posted.
Alfaline U niversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure (or Purifying the BLO01) and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especiu'ly effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beamif\ing the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. Gd.
IMPORTANT
WARNING- • •
Patrons of Herr Pass-
——
aerr Kassmmsen, Vp-to-Pate ilerhalisl.
IMPORTANT
• • • WARNING
Herr Rasamussen
. anyone of imitating the
I Alf aline Remedies.
MPORTRNT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALF ALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
ADVICE FREE.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
mn
Mr. TIIOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, slates, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
mn
Declaration.
I, TIIOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Kliz&beth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Her it Hass-
muhskn’s Purblv Herbal ALKALINE VITALITY KILLS,
which 1 hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALKALINE TILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same.-
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, IS9S.
THOMAS MUDIMAN,.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace*.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders A liannlesi
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not cnly in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cute
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet, Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Kevers
Influenza. Bottles, Is; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills -Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Uout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. Od. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-* Wonder-
ful Remedy for i ouglts, Colds, < onsumption, t-rom-hiti»,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. Od.
Allaline Hair Restorer and Beantifier— v
guaranteed remedy for preventing the llair turning grev
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapid v
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder- Builds up
and Strengthens the System. Improves the figure and
enlarges-the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6a
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders -Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautlfler— A guarante d
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples a-d
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Balts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Aifalina Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Kerr gassmussen’s Head pee - 547 GEORGE ST., SUDDS!),
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS:
BRISBANE 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)
MELBOURNE 150 Bourke-st. (opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE 154 Rundle-street (near Tork Hotel)
m
n


“ Chef ” : Good old mint-julep, in the
race of the thousand-and-one American drinks,
yet wins by a nose. Put in the glass a dozen
sprigs of tender shoots of mint. A tablespoonful
of pounded white sugar. Equal proportions of
peach-brandy and common brandy, so as to fill up
the glass rather less than one-third. Fill it to the
brim with rasped or pounded ice. Wait till it
melts. Epicures rub the edge of the tumbler with
fresh-cut pine apple. The outside may be en-
crusted with ice-stalactites. Then, as the saying
is, you smile,
Frank M'Comas, late of Sydney, is doing
well in America, a country so far unexploited by
the Australian artist. He started from California
with a collection of pictures, intending to exhibit
them en route to England via New York ; but he
writes from Chicago that “ the backbone has gone
out of his show in a very satisfactory manner.”
The Chauncey-Blain collection has bought his
biggest work for £BO. Also the “ Robe of Tamal-
pais ” (cloud on mountain) went for £5O. Other
buyers paid up to £3O for pictures, and half-a-
dozen canvasses brought between £2O and £lO.
Meanwhile clever Streeton is not doing too well
in England ; but “ the day will come.”
Westminster Budget, as a specimen of
Australian political amenities, prints a half-col.
account of that historic Sydney slang-whanging
wherein:—
Meagher : You’re a skunk !
Norton : Here’s Mr. Levien ready to state the truth and
bowl you out in more damnable lies, you triple-tongued
liar.
Meagher : I’ve something here . . . for you, you skunk,
you scaly, scrofulous bit of carrion.
Norton : Look at his prognathous jaw, his criminal
lower lip, his retreating chin and gorilla mouth—ha, ha,
ha! &c.
Again, a London weekly says of Yes-No Reid :
Like most colonials, Mr. Iteid can use vigorous language
sometimes, and during an important conference he once
called a brother-Premier, Sir E. Braddon, a lunatic !
Much that paper knows about Australian vigorous
language.
“ A.J.H.” gossips about Baden-Powell :
Dear Bulletin.— During the ’96 Matabele ,rebellion
when I was transport-riding between Mafeking and Bula-
wayo I met both Plumer and Baden-Powell, who were on
the road up with M.li.E., and rode mealies for them to
Macloutsie. Three months later, again met 8.-P. at the
big Umlugula fight, where he was chief of “ Papa’s ”
(Plumer’s) staff. Summed him up thus : Energetic ;
plenty,of common-sense ; great liking for colonials, with
whom he associated much —which the ordinary Imperial
officer will not do if he can avoid. The man who knew
the country and spoke the Matabele tongue had the free-
dom of 8.-P.’s tent and “scoff,” and men who acted as his
guides noticed how laboriously he noted the chief points
and general lie of the country, things the old hand on the
veldt does almost unconsciously. In short 8.-P. struck
me as a man who recognized his shortcomings and did his
best to remedy them. By the way, Baden-Powell’s fine
stand at Mafeking is partly due to the extreme flatness of
the surrounding country. The town is simply a little
patch, about IJQ yds. sq., of one-storied houses planted in
the midst Of a great plain. To the South, about 500yds.
from the town, a small creek makes the only break in the
monotony of the landscape. In such country three men
and a Maxim in a rifle-pit and protected by sand-bags,
could wither up 500, provided the little party formed
portion of a circle of defence and could not therefore be
outflanked. Against men in trenches behind cover rifle-
fire is almost shrapnel only slightly more dan-
gerous, and common shell only effective when —perhaps
once in a hundred times —it lands right on top of its
objective. Have seen all this in the Matabele and Mashona
campaigns of ’96.
Adelaide University’s new professor of
Modern History and English Literature, R. L.
-Douglas, has, like Melbourne’s new geology man
wandered far from the beaten track of the
pedagogue—has done much reviewing for the
press, sat under Ruskin, was one of the world’s
nuthonties on majolica, and has had the approval
of W E. Henley and George Meredith. Prof.
Douglas s strong point is Italian art-history and
sociology.
D?MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society.
S. Harvey, Ltd.,
London, S.E.
mn
mn
FISHER & CO.’S
FAMOUS
NATARA.
A SPEEDY GURE
For Coughs, Colds , Asthma ,
Bronchitis &(%, &c.
Is, 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co., Hoffnung
and Co., Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co., and from
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Washington H.
Soul and Co., Pattinson and Co., and* from the
PHARMACY,
337 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
Sent per Post, 6d. extra.
Is. (id. and 2s. 6d. per Bottle.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
(Incorporated by lioyal
Charter, 1835).
PAID UP CAPITAL £1,600,000
RESERVE FUND (£500,000 invested in Consols, at 95, the remainder being used in the business .. .. 835,000
RESERVE LIABILIT V of PROPRIETORS under the Charter 1,600,000
£4,035,000
Sixty-Sixth Annual Report of the Directorsofthe Bank of Australasia, with the Accounts
for the Half Year to 16th October, 1899. Presented to the Proprietors at the Annual
General Meeting 1 , held on Thursday, 6th April, 1900.
' report!
The directors submit to the proprietors the balance sheet as at 16th October last, with the profit account for the
half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and Colonial rates and taxes, and for
all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half year amounted to £119,870 6s. 7d. From this sum, increased by
£10,282 ss. 7d. brought forward from the previous half year, the directors have appropriated £35,000 to the reserve
fund, and £20,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises, leaving a net disposal balance of £75,152 12s. 2d., of
which the dividend declared will absorb £64,000, and there will then remain £11,152 12s. 2d. to be carried forward to
next account.
The half year’s profits has been augmented by exceptional recoveries from debts which a few years ago appeared
to require provision for loss. Under these circumstances, it has been deemed prudent to appropriate an appreciable
amount to reserves.
Although a favorable season has been experienced in several of the colonies, the unprecedented drought cannot
even now be said to have entirely broken up ; some districts in New South Wales and Queensland were, up to the
latest advices, still suffering from the want of rain, and the losses of stock in ttiose places have been very heavy. The
high prices ruling for wool have compensated in a great measure for the diminution in the yield of that commodity,
and, generally, it may be said that Australasia is in a more prosperous condition than for some years past.
There appears every reason to hope that the improvement apparent in the prospects of the colonies will continue,
and the imminent establishment of Federation, and the cordial support afforded by the colonies to the Mother Coun-
try in connection with the war in the Transvaal, must tend to increase and cement the trade relations between Aus-
tralia and Great Britain.
The directors much regret the loss of the valuable services of their late colleague, Sir Thos. Sutherland, who has,
through the pressure of other business, found it incumbent upon him to resign his seat at the board. The Hon. Sir
Charles W. Fremantle, K.C.8., is a candidate for the vacancy, and the directors have much pleasure in recommending
his election to the proprietors.
The cividend declared is at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum, or £ll2s. per share for the half year, and will be
payable, free of income-tax, in London and in the colonies, on the 6th April.
4 Threadneedle-street, London, 22nd March, 19C0. JOHN SANDERSON, Chairman.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, FROM lOth APRIL, 1899, TO 16th OCTOBER, 1899.
Undivided profit, 10th April, 1899 £66,282 5 7
Less : Dividend, October, 1899 56,000 0 0
Profit for the half year to 16th October, 1899, after deducting rebate on
bills current at balance date (£9,635 2s. 3d.), and making provision
for all bad and doubtful debts
I. Charges of Management-- Less :
Colonial —
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff, in-
cluding the superintendent’s department and
149 branches and agencies .. .. .. .. 74,918 17 6
General expenses, including rent, repairs, station-
ery, travelling, &c .. 20,100 11 3
London —
Salaries .. .. ... _. .. .. 7,579 6 2
General expenses _ .. .. 3,071 2 7
£105,669 17 6
11. Rates and Taxes—
Colonial .. .. .. _ a. .. 8,570 16 10
London .. .. ... .. ». .. 3,322 ’0 8
11,892 17 6
117,562 15 0
119,870 6 7
.. 130,152 12 2
35,000 0 0
20,000 0 0
65,000 0 0
Leaving available for Dividend £75,152 12 2
BALANCE SHEET, 6th OCTOBER, 1899.
Total amount of unappropriated profit
From which deduct—
For transfer to reserve fund .. ..
For reduction in cost of bank premises ..
£10,282 6 7
£237,433
Dr. LIABILITIES.
Circulation 453,103 0 0
Deposits .. .. .. .. .. 13,646,325 7 10
Bills payable and other liabilities.. .. 3,048,409 12 4
17,147,838 0 2
Capital 1,600,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. .. 835,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000 is in-
vested in 2J percent,
consols at 95, the re-
mainder being: used in
the business )
Profit account ; un -
divided Balance .. 75,152 12 2
2,510,152 12 2
£19,657,990 12 4
ASSETS. Or.
Specie, bullion and cash balances .. £3,034,335 5 2
Loans at call and short notice .. .. 2,125,000 0 0
British and colonial Governments’
securities 636,584 18 5
Bills receivable, advances on securities,
and other assets 13,415,416 9 7
Bank premises in Australia, New Zealand
and London 446,653 19 2
£19,657,990 12 4
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant. R. W. JEANS, Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the transfers from
the several branches in the colonies, and we beg to report that, in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair balance
sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the bank’3 affairs, as shown by the
books. London, 17th March, 1900. WELTON, JONES ANO CO., Auditors.
TO FARMERS AND GRAZIERS.
■ *W“ To further extend the circulation of
“The Farmer and Grazier,”
An Independent and Up-to-date Illustrated Journal, de-
voted to Pastoral and Agricultural Pursuits, we will send
it FREE OF CHARGE for the remainder of the present
year on condition that we receive an order for the year
1901. AGENTS WANTED.
Particulars from
J. Twomey & Co.. 5 * 71 s ' c .H m s erSj
M 9 Street. Svdnev.
D.S . M A I R
Urn
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2/6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
JDEST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 654 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
IF you are dissatisfied
with your DR.APRR.eaJI in i
Vow, fi
Draper call in or write to us for
our New Season’s Patterns and Prices.
HORDERN’S lead the van.
A IJd. Post will place you
in communication with us.
Pitt St,
FOR
EVER.
Please Mention The Bulletin.
ROCHESTER LODGE
Collins Place East, Melbourne.
Private Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'CLELLAND,
Proprietress.
LADIES !
■ Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 6s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales . . .
Barbers’ Supply House
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
m
3S<*
0
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers— M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade <fc Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
m
n
Cures While
You Sleep
Whooping Gough, Asthma, Group, Gatarrh, Golds.
CRESOLENE when vaporized in the sickroom will give immediate
relief. Its curative powers are wonderful, at the same time preventing the
spread of contagious disease-* by acting as a powerful disinfectant. Harm,
less to the youngest child, bold by all chemists.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.,
Plough Court,
Lombard Street,
London.
3119
National
Cash Registers
WERE SOLD IN APRIL
(THIS YEAR).
National Cash RsgiStsr C<>.
393 George Street,
W. A. LiQgban?,
6*i). Jiaoagcr.
-SYDNEY.


Medical.
ECZEMA OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., the
Prince of Wales’ Botanist
Cures this terrible itching complaint Not a
Grease. Does not Stain the Linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6; post, 4/10.
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
Chemists, or direct from the
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. j.E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melbourne
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H. G. R00T, 48, Endsleigh Gdns., LONDON.
“ Food for Thought.
A NYTIIING which causes a drain on the nerves helps to
make a SUSPENSORY necessary. Excessive mental
effort, prolonged and exhaustive physical exercise, over-
indulgence in any way, dissipation, irregularity of diet,
loss of sleep, anything which produces fatigue has its
first effect on the vital organa. A sick man, or a tired
man, has not much vital vigor, the strain tells on- the
most delicate nerves first, fatigue there produces fatigue
everywhere. Fatigue of the vital organs leaves a man
with little energy, with little strength to work or think.
The connection between the brain and the vital organa
is most direct. Excessive mental work affects the vital
power, and abuse of the vital power affects the brain— a
strain on one is a strain on both. A SUSPENSORY stops
one strain on one. It is not a big strain, but it is there
all the time : it is ono little strain multiplied by the
number of seconds in the day. It is a continual drag,
which empties the store of vitality just as a reservoir may
be emptied drop by drop.
We- have been saying “A'" SUBPENSORY. What we
really mean is an
0 OT,D
P POINT
Cl
COMFORT
SUSPENSORY
O'P'C
MJER&BIACKi^
Chica^
TAKE THE O.P.C.
Satis'action goes with it sure. Recommended, bv the
Medical fraternity throughout the world. Send lor
Booklet, FREE.
PRICES.
No. 2—0.P.C., Lisle Sack, Elastic Banda .. .. 6/-
No. 3 „ Silk „ „ .... 71-
No. 4 „ „ „ Silk „ .. •• °/“
No. 5 „ Fancy ~ ~ Fancy Silk Elastic Bands 12/0
Three Sises—Large, Medium, and Small.
OF ALE CHEMISTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,
or by post, under plain sealed cover, on Receipt of Price.
IXP“ Sold under a positive guarantee to give satisfaction.
BAUER & BLACK, Manufacturers, Chicago, ill., U.B.A.
Australasian Office :
117 Clarence-street, Sydney, N.B.W.
HEALTH AND STRENGTH
■ M may be secured without inconvenience or attention
on the part of the person taking Dr. HOPE’S LIFE
SYRUP (liquid or pill form). Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day today. Arc you a Sufferer from had health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action . Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated l
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
The Life Syrup Will Curs You.
'prlee lOf- and VOJ- ; Coarse 40/-
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis-
orders are cured, and in many cases bydmt alone, posted
six • stamps. Address: —HOPE MEDICINE CO. , Üb>
Collins street, MELBOURNE P-O, Box 405 Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
F I MAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AO LT & CO S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Business Announcements.
mn
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from S/9 eaoH.
PLAITS and TAILS,
!(Hn. lontt, t/Q. all real hair.
CUTTINQS & COMBISC3
•or'ked op, 2/9 per oz.
IVB are the cheapeStio A— l
Walla for all Hair Work..
Send Color of llair.^
W.H.tWizz«ll.
110 William Strbct,
eorner of Palmer-street,
.j SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Prioe Ll*k_
atttotioo'gfyca to Oountsy Oro«m
mn
The Life of the System.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
Sc
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDIBY.
This is the Latest Typo
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
l'ricc, dS7.
Carriage Paid.
THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is n Concert ih your own Home.
Nothing- to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
Also oil Sale —
-1 Edison Oinematographe complete ami 10
Film?, £5O.
1 Cineinatographe and 10 Films, £B5.
2 Corbett Fight, Machines, £6O. A fortune for a
smart man.
2 Edison Kinto-oopes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Itay Outlits, complete.
the TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia—EPlSOtl ELECTRIC
Removed to 1 and 3 Howe Street. (120 PITT STREET), SYDNEY (ONLY).
ll', ,/. y. oidernhau', Manager. Nearly opposite (J.1’.0.
m
nm
The Universal Eemedy for Acidity of tl n Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; ?he
safest and. most gentle
lileuicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
HBBjHHsgßsgwij
DIHNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
A
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
Tia ui
§o
m
mmm
WvTd
' . --x
SPARKLING
n
",V— —
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared w.th this
Pure and Wholesome British
proilnction.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Agents: BLAKEY & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 413 George Street, Sy.li.ey.
9 90
XT'
'v.r/.-T
n
ffhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
»
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
- ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
> Sydney’s Leading 3urgeon and Anatomical Demon-
\ strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
= CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
1 THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
IDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
' LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
‘ Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., eto.
i They impart vigor and potency to every function,
■> brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CUBE ¥OO.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteric3 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve,visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabetli-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
For what you are about to re-
ceive, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired tothe wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE. Follow
the Footsteps of the Wise, and Buy the Best, Cheapest,
and most Stylish Clothing in Australia from
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
252 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station>
5000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to Order, at 42/-,
is marvellous value,- made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Serges, fast colors,
is perfect fitting, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cycling Suits, 35/-
Ridingßreeches.26/-. Water-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Riding Habits, etc.
Wesupplyßeady-madeMen’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
FamouB Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-. Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed orSenreTrou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over-
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys' Clothing in Australia. Ele-
gant Tennis Shirts from 2,6. Undressed White Shirts,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm Travelling
Rugs, 13 6. Gent’s splendid Balmoral Boots, 66, 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hals, 46, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 66. Caps, 1/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1/-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. And all
classes of Gent.’s Mercery.
We like to write letters, so please don’t be afraid to ask
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy of Drees,
also Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
posted Free. Write for them.
0
*HSs®miiGs>
Publications.
SKIN DISEASES
. . AND . .
Their Treatment.
AONE, ECZEMA, PSORIASIS, Ac.,
By Dr. ALFRED NEALE (M.D., M.8.C.M., Ed.),
Bate Physician to Manchester Skin: Hospital.
SYDNEY: TURNER and HENDERSON. Post 1/1.
READ SECRET SOCIETY
Hodgson’s Tales of Medical Students.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, Ss. (id. .Post- Free, 4s.
Wholesale : Edwards, Duni.oc & Go., Sydney.
Boolts. Books. Hooka.
"POI’ULAR EDUCATOR—TS for til fis. The Homo
Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for 11. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. (id. forss.-Ad. Chambers’
Encyclopnsdia, hound half calf, up-to-date edition, lOvols.,
,t 7 10s. for 12 15s. The History Of Australian Rushramr-
inif, Is. .'id. I have three very choice hooks, illustrated.
Can only he procured from me hy post, Is. (id. each. All
hooks sent post free. Kindly mention thin /la/ier.
R. W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Ckstlcreojfh street, Sidney.
SEND POli A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
lI.L XT S I* R -A. TED
WITU numerous anatomical
• ' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDIOATj GUIDE.
Every man should read il, and
know the grand truths, ihe plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
IOAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by imorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Cir-ular, explaining contents
of hook, sent on receipt of 2d
(stamps) for stcpage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 402, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
mn
m
How Do! May I send you
my
Eoctya Special
Hook Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRAD2,
>2Ol BOURKU-ST., MKBBOUKNU.
n
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET of ßO R oK R s E
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
lAMOND SONG BOOK«
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the covers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only '2s. 6d., posted
28. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 468 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
Medical,
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Ryes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. VAd. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.


Hearne s Bronchitis Cure.
thcb famous
REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness 111 the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
fortmgm allaying irritation m the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Coughs!
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir,—l am writing to tell you
about the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About three years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.”—Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
M~> H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BY
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“Mr. Hearne.—
Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Via
“ Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very had coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“ I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to mv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.”
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, l was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain’ and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never fqel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and am,
dear Sir,
“Yours very truly,
“M. MORTIMER.”
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronohitis in November, but Hearne’B
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite welli
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
•never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle,
and on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite oured and did not require any more medioine.
So you see what great good it has done, and abt wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Years’ A"ony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED By FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IT.
“Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the oough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronohitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“ WILLIAM CROCKETT,
“Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A Pive Years’ Case.
CUBED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me ont
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
“ Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from whioh I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I had been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney."
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN TEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
(Queensland, writes :—“After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced to|try Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 16 years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4t,h April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Nevor have the slightest
return of the Asthma.**
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
4 ‘ DOW KIDGrE’S ’
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
Ire you Too Stout ?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALING REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
(MM IT ED),
UA.FTO (Lali© Illawarra),
near SYDNEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
11l
<Mi AK JKjsiifil OV
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILL AW ARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD* SILVER, LEAD and COPPER- ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For a]l information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weimbebg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia,
REPINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
} .
Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Mabtin Place, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
INFANTS
>
FOOD is not only highly
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by -
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


/
ft
*
/
(Si
/
,vv\ \ x
3
/ >
M
r n
**£kAh* *
• • 1
. -V
INFMHM2A,
IMIIGESTI9M
MWRTKBBfeEI
fi
Praise from Auburn, Sydney.
Mr. John Bryant, of Northumberland-road, Auburn, Sydney, writes: “I have much plea-
sure in testifying to the benefit and better health I am in through using Bile Beans for Bilious-
ness. I have been a sufferer from constipation and indigestion for several years, and have tried
many remedies, but found Bile Beans the best I have ever used. I may mention that seeing Mr.
Rees’ recovery induced me to try them, with the good results.”
Bile Beans are sold the world over at 13Jd. per large box, and it will pay you to have a box
on the shelf for emergencies.
BILE BEANS
BRING
“ A Little Ray of Sunshine ”
INTO THE
HOME OF Mrs. LAURA JAMES.
Mrs. Laura James, who lives at No. 2 Rae-
street, North Fitzroy, Melbourne, told a
reporter of the North Melbourne Gazette
that she was a sufferer for ten years. She
suffered from indigestion and dyspepsia, and
was certain that she would have gone on suffer-
ing for life had it not been for Bile Beans.
She was certain that a person suffering as she
did would have been much better dead than
alive. No food agreed with her, and even
liquid nourishment made her suffer greatly;
she'dwindled away until she became a mere
skeleton and a burden to herself and relatives.
About eight months ago a friend of hers,
named Mrs. Hood, of Market-street, Fitzroy,
advised her to try Bile Beans, and the first
box seemed to improve her, and, of course, she
continued to take them. Her case was a bad
one, chronic and of long standing; but with
each box her stomach grew stronger, and she
was soon not only able to eat, but to digest a
meal. Altogether she took eight boxes, which
cost her less than a single doctor’s fee, and she
is absolutely and thoroughly cured. She eats
good hearty meals, and enjoys them, and has
no flatulency or heavy feeling in the stomach
afterwards, and has fully recovered health and
strength. She is many pounds heavier than
when she commenced to take Bile Beans, and
is putting on weight daily. In her case the
cure was little short of a miracle, as she was
in a very bad state. She was very grateful
for what Bile Beans had done for her, and she
will never miss an opportunity to recommend
them to other sufferers. It was not the sun
that Mrs. Laura James welcomed, but Bile
Beans, as the above account undoubtedly
proves.
Bile Beans
FOR
Biliousness
Possess the peculiar properties of acting on the
bowels without purging or otherwise weaken-
ing the patient. This is because the substance
that relaxes the bowels has about the same
action as the natural bile. BILE BEAMS
are purely vegetable, and a course of them will
probably successfully oust the most chronic
cases of Liver and Stomach Troubles, Piles,
Indigestion, Chronic Headache, Biliousness,
Influenza, Rheumatism, Constipation, and a
host of other ailments that owe their origin to
defective bile flow, assimilation, and digestion.
These Beans are placed on the market in such
a form that anyone can take them without
medical supervision, and as the price is so very
low there are few homes that cannot afford to
always have a box on the shelf for emergency.
©a
ASHING DAY.
What a grand institution is
washing-day ! It is then that
the bed-linen, sheets, shirts,
underwear, etc., etc., go
through a process of cleans-
ing, and the washerwoman
for the day (usually a Mon-
day) becomes the heroine of
the hour. And what a lovely
thing it is when washing-day
is over, and all the linen in
the house is as clean and as
white as snow. There is no
mistake about it, “Cleanli-
ness is next to godliness, ” and
one seems to have different feelings when one sees
around him everything clean—it matters not what
it might be, linen or anything else. But just as
particular as the housewife is to see that there is a
washing-day every week in the house, so should
we be particular in having a washing-day for our
systems. Bile Beans for Biliousness will help
you ; they will cleanse the stomach, clean out all
impure matter, and thoroughly purify the Blood.
Mr.. William Kiely, of Cliapple-street, Broken
Hill, suffered from constipation, among other com-
plaints, and he says: “Of recent years, I have
suffered severely from biliousness, indigestion, and
■ constipation. The internal pains were at times
unbearable. I was off my food and sleep, and was
gradually getting in a bad way. In my store I
sell a large quantity of Bile Beans, and tried them
myself. They worked wonders. After taking
several boxes, I can say I am as well as any man
can be. I continue to take them now, from time
to time, when I feel out of sorts, and they never
fail to fix me up. They are the best medicine I
ever tried, and I always recommend them to my
customers. You are quite welcome to publish
this, if you wish.” Bile Beans are sold everywhere
at per large box ; and everyone should have
a box on the shelf for emergencies.
A Woman was to Blame.
It is surprising how eager men are to saddle
women with all blame. So frequently is this done
that “a woman was at the bottom of it” has
passed into a phrase of every day usage. Surely
Miss May Graham, of 99 York-street West, South
Melbourne, was not to blame, when, by taking
Bile Beans for Biliousness, she cured herself of a
most acute attack of dyspepsia. Here is what
she told a reporter of the Melbourne Record :
“For three years I suffered greatly from dyspep-
sia. I had frequent and fearful attacks of neuralgia
in the face, which caused me agony for weeks at
a time. All food disagreed with me. I grew
listless and melancholy. I spent six months in
South'Gippsland for a change, but I got no benefit
from it. 1 returned to Melbourne, and became
pale and sallow. I gave up hope of recovery.
One day my brother brought me a box of Bile
Beans. I commenced to take them, and in a
short time felt decidedly better. Continuing with
the Beans, I was restored to perfect health. I
cannot too strongly express my gratitude for the
good done me.” In the face of Mrs. Graham’s
story, it cannot be said that this lady was to
blame for having acted so wisely as her narrative
describes.
Koob, the Discriminator.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Koob had never read the Bible ; it was the orien-
tal architecture of his mind that made him match
exactly a scriptural illustration.
“ The ways of Alla are strange, Tuan. He
maketh the sun to shine alike upon the just man
and the unjust.”
Drake was sorting cocoa-nuts. He turned round
with a nut in each hand and a twinkle in his eye.
“ Can’t explain it, old boy. Better go over to
Vassassin and ask Dodd. He knows all about
God’s private opinions. He’s one of those fellows
who talk as if they were kindly helping the Al-
mighty to run Creation.”
Despite the idioms, the acute old Malay got
Drake’s meaning by the right end. He touched
his head-kerchief —black, white, and yellow. “The
heart of Dodd,” he said, “is like this ; the white,
hypocrisy ; the yellow, spite; the black, villainy.”
And then, with a Q.E.D.-air, the old man squatted
on the verandah-floor and purveyed to his crim-
son-stained mouth a fresh supply of betel and siri.
Drake pitched down his nuts and took out his
pipe. “ You’ve sized-up Dodd pretty fairly!” he
said. “The sun shouldn’t shine much, in the
former capacity, upon him, according to your
notions. But, what’s it all about, Koob ?—what’s
he done to you ? ”
“It is written,” said Koob —not answering
directly—“that children are the gifts of Alla to
the good. Yet hath this son of Sheetan many;
while thy wife—upon whose head be peace !—re-
maineth like a fruitless fig-tree ! Why should
such— Salamat pagi l lady whom I honor ! ” broke
off the old man, as he rose and stepped courteously
out of his slippers.
Mrs. Drake—a bright little woman—not yot
stewed into equatorial langour—held out a hand.
“Salamat, Koob ! ” she said. “ Enter ! —friends
stay not thus without.”
“It may not be, delight of thy husband ! The
hour of prayer is at hand. PeacO be unto thee,
and Alla send thee thy heart’s dosire ! ”
Koob resumed his scarlet slippers, thrust his be-
jewelled kris woll down in his green waistcloth,
and solemnly descended the ladder. At the
bottom he turned, fingered his scanty white beard
for a moment, and came half-way up again.
“Lady,” he said, “be of hope! lam old ; I
have seen much; and I say to thee that Alla hath
in his hand this day a gift for thee! I have
spoken ! ”
Mrs. Drake stared after the old man till his
white robe disappeared among the canes. ‘ ‘ Now,
what on earth did that mean, Jack?” she said,
then.
“ Hang me if I know ! The old chap’s in one
of his philosophic humors to-day. He thinks
there’s something crooked in the arrangement
that denies us children while it gives ’em galore to
that canting animal, Dodd. You should have
heard Koob reckon that holy humbug up !.”
“But I thought, the natives believed in Dodd ?”
“He doesn’t go down with such men as Koob.
Half-Arab Malays of his stamp can see as far
through a brick-wall as anybody, and, when they
find Dodd’s talk all Bible and his acts all Dodd,
they despise him as much as they respect you be-
cause your doings correspond pretty well with your
sayings. See ? ”
“ I see ! Do you know, Jack, I think I’ll make
a Christian of Koob, yet! ”
Her husband patted her on the head. '‘My
dear,” he said, “you don’t grasp the situation.
The only effect you have produced upon that
astute old gentleman is to make him as sincerely
anxious about your impending perdition as you
are about his ! ”
• « * •
The assertion that women endure pain better
than men is one of those venerable gags which—
originating mostly in over-hasty generalisation—
go gaily down the ages in the teeth of facts. Of
the most multitudinous race on earth it is cer-
tainly not true; for, while the Chinaman —as his
worst enemies admit —takes his gruel with a forti-
tude few white men can emulate, the caterwauling
of a she-Chinky over a pricked finger is an acoustic
joy for ever. Which was why, from the back-
verandah of the Reverend Dodd’s house at Vas-
sassin, there arose upon the torrid air a more fan-
tastic assortment of yowlings than could have
proceeded from any throat but a Chinawoman's.
But not without reason was Lu-Sal evoking dia-
bolic echoes from the sandstone cliffs across the
river. The Reverend Daniel, though fat and
scant of breath, was hot with righteous indigna-
tion, to the combined effects of which and a stout
rattan the unlucky nursemaid’s shoulders bore
testimony in a pleasing “arrangement” of blue
upon yellow. The belauded “cat” itself, how-
ever, could not have extracted from Lu-Sal what
she didn’t know—the present wheroabvjuts, to
wit, of Mrs. Dodd’s latest contribution to the
population of Borneo. Lu-Sal-flogged could say
no more than Lu-Sal-throatened. She had been
carrying the boy along the jungle-edge, and a
Buau had snatched him from her and vanished.
Cross-examined concerning the evil being’s ap-
pearance, Lu-Sal could only say that it was in the
form of a man ; but whether old or young—brown,
yellow, or white—-she know not.
Perspiring Dodd threw down his cane at last.
“ I suppose the idiot is tolling the truth, as far as
she knows it!” he said to his wife. “Lock her
up in the store-room till I come back. I’m going
over to the Orang. He must start his young men
out to search the jungle.”
But here the obese evangelist ran violently
against an anomaly in the scheme of things sal-
vatory. About half the Dyaks had “embraced.”
They head-hunted no longer—or said they didn’t.
They sang—to tunes of which they hadn’t much
hold—hymns of whose meaning they hadn’t any.
Batara they renounced, and all his works; and
Jirong they spat-upon —in words—while, as a
matter of fact, they had—without at all altering
their conceptions of those Powers merely
changed tho name of one to “God” and of the
other to “Devil.” In Antu’s and Buau’s they
were supposed to believe no longer, and yet, when
Dodd would have sent them incontinently a-ohild-
hunting, not one would stir—ostensibly for 50
reasons, but roally for one—dread of the abductory
Buau.
• •
“Keep it?” said Jack Drake. “ Out of the
question, Dolly. It’ll be claimed before it’s a
week older. Fine boy enough, too ! Not much
like its father, I should think ! ”
( Mrs. Drake almost dropped the little chap.
then# Do yOU know whose child it l3 >
“I don’t know; but I’ve a pretty good guess.
Dodd’s the only white man within 50 miles of us;
I expect this is Mrs. Dodd’s youngest.”
“Nonsense, Jack ! Vassassin’s 30 miles away
—how could the child get here ? ”
“ Must have been brought ! Look here, Dolly,
T7- be ? m j understand it. D’you remember what
Koob said a week ago . Depend upon it, the old
chap has taken upon himself to amend the ar-
rangements of Providence by doing Dodd an ill-
turn and you a good one. He must have popped
the youngster through the window while you were
at the back. These Malays are cat-footed and
the dogs know him. There they go now ! Some
stranger. . . , ,
A man stood m the doorway—jean-dressed,
de fi IH n §> er ‘Whiskered, and bumptious.
My name is Dodd—Reverend Daniel Dodd.
You know me—or you ought to. You have a
child here. It is mine. Hand it over instantly.”
“ Know you very well, Mr. Dodd,” Drake said,
“by reputation. I presume that is your lost pro-
perty in the arms of Mrs. Drake, whose presence,
by-the-way, you do not appear to have perceived.”
But the emphasis on “reputation” had in-
creased the holy man’s choler. He kept his hat
on his head and blurted : “ This won’t serve you,
my fine fellow ! You’ll find that you can’t kidnap
a child with impunity, even in Borneo! Your
wife—if she is your wife ”
Drake stepped so suddenly across the room that
Dodd—drawing hastily back—collided with some-
body behind him. He looked—then backed slowly
into the corner of the verandah.
“ Koob ?” he said
“Ay, Koob ! Koob it was who took your
child 1 Where is Koob's child’”
Dodd had been sweating ‘ before now he
streamed, and his flabby under-lip went down,
Mrs. Drake brought the little fellow out, toddling,
and snatching at the tail of a tame civet.
“ Few words for many ! ”—Koob stood between
father and child. “Long before thee, Tuan—ls
seasons—came this man to Bornoo—young, then,
but liar and hypocrite as now ! I had a daughter !
She drowned herself! Thoro was a reason ; but
never till two moons ago did I know who the man
was. This man! Time was this would have
spoken for Koob ”—and Dodd’s knees gave way as
tlio snaky kris-blade leaped swiftly from its
scabbard. t
But tho fierce old man only eyed him for a
moment; then, with a rolaxod brow, he turned to
Mrs. Drake.
“Let him thank thy teachings, lady, for his
life. For the child—l. thought to gladden thy
heart therewith ; nor did I think this man would
follow. But even the unclean boast loveth its
young! Give him his child! I go!”
lie sheathed the kris, moved away a few steps,
and turned again.
“Hoar this also—lady whom Koob honoreth !
and write thoreof to those of your country who
send liithor such men as this. Ihe man who
speakoth always the words of thy Book, but
aoteth them never—whose tongue is for Alla,
while his eye is for our young women and his
hand for our substanco-doth but cast filth upon
the.name of thy prophet, Christa. For such men,
in all faiths, there is perdition! For thee, and
such as thee, the True Prophet may perchance
crave mercy of Alla. It is the hope of Koob ! I
have spoken ! ”
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.
Laconic despatch from Kitchener to
Brabant: “Get back’ to the railway. Lord
Roberts does not believe in these side-shows.”
“I want the concierge to call out through
my keyhole every morning, what day of the month
and week it is, what sort of weather, and what
Government we live under.”— Murycr.
Q. Education Department requires resi-
dents of any town to pay one-fifth of the cost of
an y new school, but does not require them to pay
anything towards subsequent additions to the
building. Bullockville recently wanted a school,
an( j promptly provided one-fifth of the money
nee ded for a building to accommodate 60 children,
The school wag built and opened when< lo , and
behold, 300 kiddies rolled up to start business,
Of course, the department had to enlarge the
building entirely at its own cost, and Bullockville
rejoiced with a great and awful joy. There’s
i oa( j s Q f guile in the Pumpkin.
‘ F.G. : Melbourne s new Catholic
church, St. Mary’s Star of the Sea, is another in-
stance of the wisdom of Holy Fathers in choosing
sites for their monuments A.M.D.G. ; but why,
O why ! don’t they finish them? St. Patrick’s,
St. Ignatius’, and now St. Mary’s, all overshadow-
ing in magnificence and in situation the best
efforts of rival denominations, have none of them
spires, and so remain monuments of inoomplete-
ness. Is it because the fine church without a
'spire is a powerful invitation for some of the
wealthy Faithful to como along, sooner or later,
with the money to provide a “completion” worthy
of the building ?
~7 1 . ..
Who says the Victorian climate is not
conducive to the growth of poesy? Behold Pur-
tell, Fitz-Gibbon, Allan M'Lean, and John Joseph
Murphy ! John Joseph is the very latest muse,
'and like all the now strugglers with rhyme he is
Jingo. His masterpiece, 4 Ihe Shamrock hvor
Green, is printed in popular leaflet form m
emerald ink. Of the vegetable itself ho says
lucidly:
“Now presented by Our Queen, the dearest and best
honour ; now for century’s past has been.”
and his touohing and beautiful lines are
“Written under the patronage of Her Majesty the Queen
by John Joseph Murphy.”
Here they are:—
Advance Young Australia, and on your banners seen
The Red, White and Blue, and Orange with the Shamrock
Green;
And if they’re wanted, be unfurled through Her nations
, iru of £ heworJd >. , , . .
Where for generations past, slavery has been.
But by Her whom all revere, Freedom’s planted there,
in persistence of Her fervency of will,
That on the British Throne, Her equal never known,
For Humanity, Humility, Fortitude and Skill.
May she reign victorious, Her name be ever glorious,
And justice to her subjects be seen ;
That loving loyal desire, that God of us require,
Due reverence and love for Our Queen,
And that unity exist, all aggression can resist,
or the shade of its colours be seen,
Under British Alliance we’ll show bold defiance,
Defending the countries of Our Queen,
God save our Queen to see a lonff futu rity,
Before she is called from Her Throne,
By the Almighty King to come on Angel’s wing,
To glorify Him for ever on His own.
“On His own!” And here endeth the wild cry
of John Joseph Murphy. May his shadow never
diminish!


Cecil Rhodes chuckles grimly over an
illustration he gives of the beauty of British mili-
tary methods. Although, during the siege of
Kimberley, formal announcement was made, under
“ V.R.,” &c., of the loss of a single mule belonging
to the regular forces, not an official word was said
of the 111 men of the locally-raised 4503 who were
slain during the siege. They were only volunteers
without the regulation goose-step, so they didn’t
count. It is very curious, to say the least of it,
that there doesn’t appear to have been a single
casualty amongst Kekewich’s 500 regulars, who
should, in proportion, have lost men.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“ Reininie ” makes several remarks to
The Bulletin
Ed. Bulletin. —Re the Glenelg. * did several short
voyages in her when she belonged—with the Bellinger and
Banks Peninsula—to the noble Miles. She used to
run from Hobart to Strahan and round to Melbourne in
those days, and James M'Nair suffered 18 months’ mar-
tyrdom in her as captain. On one trip we left Hobart on
Saturday and reached Strahan on Tuesday, after 70 hours
of damp hell. The deck was loaded with long timber,
and a lot of pigs and sheep to top off with. The deck
was so sm ill and the live-stock so many that they could
not be penned. So they roamed the deck as the lift of
the seas decided—running to the hoi: in the deck (which
was called the “ saloon companion ”) when her bows rose
to the seas, and racing forward again as the wave passed
under her. On another trip she started from Hobart
with a lighter four times her own size in tow, struggled
with it in fearful weather for 36 hours, and finally left it
at Port Davey. The owners used to discharge her by
telegraph, I think. After 6) hours of gale she would
be tied up at Strahan—discharged, loaded, and chased
to sea again before the skipper had time to change
his clothes. They were great “ floating hotels ”
were the West Coast boats before the Union Co.
took them over. One Launceston-Strahan packet—
the Koonya has, I believe, happily disappeared—
whether through wreck I know not. She was a bug-
bitten ship wh >se cabins were reserved for promenades
for the various brands of insects aboard. There were red
and white and black insects of all shapes, sizes, and
differentiation of stings, and feelers, and when squashed
each insect had a widely-divergent perfume. Most of the
West C last steamers were providored by the steward of
each. He was generally a harassed person, clothed prin-
cipally in a very dirty shirt and insanitary pants. He
always waited until the ship had cast off her stern-line,
and then, having counted all the passengers, he would
make a frantic run for the shore, and by and bye do a
pier-head jump to his ocean home laden with four loaves
of bread pressed affectionately to the dirty shirt afore-
said, and IS pounds of hard, stiff, salted cow, also three
bottles of square-face gin. On my last trip in one of
those boats I bought up all the square-face, as I was too
fastidious to drink floor-sweepings tea, sweetened with
plum jam, which is both unpalatable and inconvenient
unpalatable by reason of the thickness of the jam, and in-
convenient by reason of the stones thereof. And wh n
that trip was finished, I thanked the Fates as
never thanked them before or since.
ANGIER’S
Petroleum Emulsion
is
BETTER THAN COD-LIVER OIL.
WHY?
BECAUSE
It is pleasant to take, and aids digestion instead of disturbing
it. Those who cannot bear cod-liver oil in any form take
-Angier’s Emulsion without difficulty. It can be taken clear
or in water, milk, chocolate, wine, whisky, ale, malt, or other
pleasant aqueous or alcoholic beverages.
BECAUSE
While the gain in weight from its use is fully equal to that
from cod-liver oil, it has, besides, curative virtues which cod-
liver oil does not possess. Antiseptic, soothing, healing, it
exerts a wonderfully beneficial influence 1 upon the mucous
membrane of throat, lungs, stomach, and bowels. It relieves
and cures the most obstinate coughs, heals soreness and in-
flammation of throat and lungs, and allays irritation in the
stomach and intestines.
BECAUSE
It combines the tonio and nutrient properties of the hypophos-
phites of lime and soda. These have hold a prominent place
in medicine for the last forty years, and nearly every one is
■acquainted with their great medicinal value. The best results
are obtained from their use when in combination with our
petroleum, which preserves them from all chance of deteriora-
tion.
Prescribed by the Medical Profession
In United States since 1881
In Great Britain since 1802
In Australia since 1808
ENGLISH TESTIMONIALS.
Consumption-
os Algernon-road, Newoastle-on-Tyne.
Dear Sirs, —Some two years past last Novem-
ber rny health and strength broke down. I was
received into the Royal Infirmary of this city,
where I was treated for incipient phthisis. My
case was rather an anxious one, being reduced in
body to almost a perfect skeleton. While I lay in
this low state, my physician prescribed your
Emulsion, making the kindly remark that I was
the first patient they had ordered it for, and that
he hoped and looked for great results, which were
fully and practically realised. By the end of the
first week I felt my strength gradually returning ;
very soon after was able to stand up, eventually
to get about, and at the end of two months able
to leave the institution. I returned to my work,
and have kept at it ever since, with the exception
of one or two short intervals. During the whole
of this time I have off and on used your Emulsion,
which I have proved to be my sheet anchor. I
can fully endorse all you claim for it, whilst laying
special stress upon the fact that it is pleasant to
take, and (the most important of all to invalids)
there are no eructations after taking it, such as is
common with the best of cod-liver oils.
(Signed) RONALD MoDONALD.
ugh; Throat Irritation.
Barry Port, South Wales.
Dear Sirs, —I have great pleasure in forwarding
you my testimony of the efficacy of your Emul-
sion. I have for weeks been suffering with irrita-
tion of the throat and a severe racking cough, the
result of influenza. lam happy to say that, after
taking your preparation, my cough has entirely
disappeared, and my voice is as clear as a bell. I
strongly recommend it to all persons suffering
from hoarseness.
(Signed) W. E. WATKINS,
Baptist Minister.
After Pneumonia.
47 Adklaide-strekt, South Shields.
Dear Sirs,—This time last year my son, aged
nine, had a serious attack of pneumonia and heavy
loss of blood, and the doctor told me there was no
hope for his life. No one who saw him at the
time thought he could possibly recover, but ho is
better now than he ever was in his life, and is
putting on flesh every day. Three large bottles
of your Emulsion has made this change, and I
think it is little short of a miracle.
(Signed) F. GUNN.
From a London Physician to one
of the Children’s Hospitals.
have carefully tried your Emulsion, and I
find it especially soothing in bronchial affections,
soon easing the cough, and the children rapidly
gain flesh. In young babies teething I find it a
m!#; valuable preparation, for it quickly relieves |
the cough which so often affects them at that ;
time. Many take it easily when they will not I
take cod-liver oil.
Instead of Cod-Liver Oil.
Franche-road, Glenfield-road, Leicester.
Dear Sirs, —I am writing to thank you for the
sample bottle of your Emulsion. My doctor
wished me to take it for a time instead of cod-
liver oil, and I cannot help writing to tell you
how much better I feel in every way. lam now
on the second bottle, and am gradually gaining
weight. My appetite is mlich better, and I have
no indigestion pains and no pains between the
shoulders. It has also done my rheumatism good.
I have recommended it to many others, and they
also say how much better they are feeling since
taking it.
(Signed) 0. GODDARD.
Bronchitis Fourteen Years.
25 Somersoales-street, Hull.
Dear Sir, —I have derived much benefit from
the use of your Emulsion, having been greatly
relieved of bronchitis after having suffered
severely for fourteen years, and I have also found
it very beneficial in building up the system. I
have so far taken three large bottles, and have
recommended it to several people, who have
suffered in the same way.
(Signed) (Miss) .T. S. MARSHALL.
Whooping Cough.
Clare House, Woodend-road,
Erdington, Birmingham.
Sirs, —Owing to my being invalided I have not
till now been able to give your Emulsion a trial,
but this last month my youngest son, aged ten
years, has been taking the same, and it has bene-
fited him wonderfully. H£ was suffering from
whooping cough, and as the spasms were very
frequent and violent, with a great deal of vomit-
ing, I decided to give your Emulsion a trial. It
speedily allayed all retching, he has now entirely
lost the cough, and has not lost any flesh. lam
thankful that he has got over the disease so
rapidly, and I think I may safely say that the
good results are due to the Emulsion solely.
(Signed) W. ARTHUR WALSH.
M.R.C.S., L.S.A.
Stomach Ulcer.
43 Bute-street, Liverpool.
Gentlemen, —I was taken ill in November,
1890, with an ulcerated stomach, and was under
four eminent doctors up to May, 1897. During
March and April I had four relapses, and was
given up, and told that I could not live more
than six weeks. I had always fancied your
Emulsion would do me good, and when the
doctors could do no more for me I got a bottle
and felt the benefit of it the first few days, and
all food I was taking agreed with me. I con-
tinued to take it up to September, 1897, and have
not felt any pain since or been troubled with my
stomach in any way. My case is very well known
all about here, and the vicar and curate from our
church say if ever a man was brought from death’s
door I was.
(Signed) JAMES BAMBER,
Assurance Agent.
c \ utiojst.
Ours is the Original Petroleum Emulsion. It is made with a special oil
obtained from particular wells, and carefully purified by our own process.
Imitations made with ordinary petroleum do not have the same effect. Simply asking for Petroleum
Emulsion will not do. You should ask for
ANGIER’S PETROLEUM EMULSION,
AND BE SURE THAT YOU GET IT.
Of all Chemists and Drug Stores - 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
A FREE SAMPLE BOTTLE
On receipt of 4d. for postage. Mention the Sydney Bulletin.
The Angier Chemical Co. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
Head Office: 32 Snow Hill, London, England.
Cupid.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To get recruits for Pain I use
The bait of Pleasure’s lips ;
I crimp from soft oblivion crews
For planet coffin-ships.
Lest Father Chaos’ rule should cease
I mingle Near with Far ;
Afflict alternate years of peace
With progeny of war :
In years of fat increase select
The victims for the lean,
And into choicer veins inject
Infusions of the mean.
In democratic tyranny,
I clean the human face
Of tattoo marks of low and high,
The black and white of race.
So mate I handmaid of the vale
With baron of the town,
The sable ogre or the pale
With angel white or brown.
Yet unity I scarce attain
When, as your science knows,
I burst them into caste again
And fertile racial woes.
At times I urge to noble ways,
At times for evil strive;
But careless e’er for good or base
If but the race survive.
My only care is that blind Life
Should man the world-ship’s deck,
In spite of peace, in spite of strife
Until its day of wreck.
So that it may I weave as charm
Protean Loveliness,
The little prides of face and form
The alchemies of dress,
The lie of Fame, the Duty lie,
The hope of ended strife,
The grim, the ghastly vanity
Of noble types of life.
The fruitful kisses of the trees
Wind-wafted to their mates,
The maiden mother Aphides,
The alternating fates
Of jelly-fish, or fluke, or moss,
In higher skies I set
Than wifeless Christ upon His cross,
Or childless Juliet.
So that It live—The Germ ! The Germ !
It matters not to me
If sheep or tiger, man or worm,
Earth’s victor captain be.
Vic.
ALCHERINGA.
Strategy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“He writes poetry to her, birthday-cake poetry
You’ve seen verses on the silver-paper bands that
encircle sugar-iced birthday-cakes? Yes. Well
that sort. In fact, from his point of view, Ger-
trude is a frosted-sugar angel—a cake orn uncut.’’
It was Gwen who spoke. Gertrude was one of
her greatest friends, and Gerty had just become
engaged to one Bartle.
I didn’t say anything because I didn’t wish to
encourage Gwm in the belief that she was clever.
But the other listener giggled like a junior-class of
a girls’ school. Then she said she must go—that
she was in a violent hurry—and stood ten .minutes
trying to get the canary to peck at a lump of sugar.
Gwen continued to talk of Gerty : “ And she does
her hair so badly. That kind of fluffy, straight
hair can’t be gracefully negligent, so it ought
never to be pinned with steel hair-pins. They
should be shell. It’s dreadful to have hair that
must be neat to look anything. Neatness is such
an awful thing in anything but stocking-darning,
sn’t it, Freda ?”
She addressed me.
“Glue isn't a bad thing,” I began, “to keep
your hair tidy. You dip the brush.”
Then the dogs came into the room, and Gwen
and I began to talk; and the other girl (her name
was Eva) went away.
I told Gwen that she had gone to tell Gertrude
what had been said about her.
Gwen gave a little whistle. “I quite forgot
that Eva’s tongue leaks,” she said. “What a
nuisance; because I want to beGert’schief brides-
maid, and if she believes what the fibber tells I’ll be
thrown out.”
“ She needn’t tell any fibs,” I remarked ; “ the
truth will be quite sufficient.”
“ I wish truth would stay at the bottom of her
well —in this instance, at least.”
“Truth is magnificent !” I remarked, rising and
putting on my sunbonnet.
“So is a mountain range—seen from a great
distance. At close quarters it’s piggish. Are
these gloves yours? They must be, I never weir
cotton ones. Would you like to mend the fingers
now —here’s a needle and cotton.” I flung back
at her herowa remarksabout “truth ” and “ neat-
ness,” then I went away and walked through the
bush to Gerty’s place. It took me an hour, for I
reckoned that Eva would have gone by train
(because she wore pointed-toed shoe 3 a size too
small) and by the time I arrived would have
departed.
A little conservatory opened oS the sitting-room.
It was furnished with a few pots with dead plants
in them, an easel, a lot of painting materials,
and Gerty. She is very fair and her blue eyes are
very shallow but it’s only women who know that.
The blueness of their blue makes men think them
fathomless. Usually her mouth hangs a little
open as if the lower lip were too slack—but thi s
looking for defects is a paltry tiling. Sufficient
that the lip was in color and shape most delicate
and desirable—so were the teeth, if disclosed. I
hate carping persons, who after they have noted
the fine promise of my jaw, immediately see with
alarm that it is contradicted by the vicious slope
of my occiput or the angular setting of my ears.
Well, Gerty’s usually slack mouth was set, and
she didn’t smile at my cordial greeting, “How
d’ye do, Gert ? Still cumbering the earth ?” She
made no reply, but went on niggling at the already-
finished bits of her picture—a tall, slender glass
that held three long-stemmed roses. The “origi-
nal ” of the picture—l emphasise the word advisedly
—stood near the artist. It was also a long, slender
glass with three long-stemmed roses. But I who
know that Gert knows as much of drawing from
the round as I know of Chinese metaphysics, was
quite sure that, whatever she was copying, it was
not the real roses and vase her. She
wanted to impress visitors. Besides, the foot of
the real vase had claws and the pictured one
hadn’t.
I stood behind her and praised enthusiastically.
Her mouth only grew more and more like an
ultimatum.
I was silent for a full minute ; then said, as if in
self-communion: “What hair you’ve got! No
wonder a prince among men has got mashed on
it! ” (N.B. —Bartle is the most commonplace
man that ever I met).
Gerty swung herself round on the high stool on
which she was seated, and burst out with, “ Yes,
4 what hair ’; the kind you’d brush with glue, I
suppose.”
1 went and sat down opposite her and looked at
her vacantly, before I replied “Well, it’s a singular
thing—but not two hours since Eva spoke about
using glue on the hair.” She put down her
brushes and palette and stared at me.
“ Eva spoke of it, did she ?”
Her tone rasped me like an oyster-shell.
“ Indeed, and what did you say ?”
“ I didn’t say anything,” I replied. “ I was
trying to make the canary eat sugar.”
“Ah, and what did Gwen say? She wasn’t
making impertinent remarks about mo and Bartle
was she ? Oh dear, no ! I know all, and I’m going
to have it out with Gwen.”
“Oh, well,” I replied, “if you like to be mild
and Christian-martyry you might call the remarks
impertinent. For my part I think she was carry-
ing-on something terrible about you.”
“ About me ! Why ? What for ? ”
I was scoring heavily.
“ I’m afraid she’s a little vindictive,” I said.
“You see, it wasn’t fair of you to—to—Oh, you
know.”
(It was more than I did, but Gwen was my
friend and had lent me the best pattern-blouse
I ever had.)
“I don’t know! Just speak plainly!” Her
cheeks were scarlet, and she was looking scared.
“I can’t,” T replied. “If your own conscience
doesn’t remind you—l—look here, Gert, I’m sure
you won’t be able to secure Gwen for your brides-
maid unless you ”
“Unless I what? And why should you think
wanted her for bridesmaid ? For goodness sake,
speak plainly.” She was shaking a little.
“ Unless you can explain a few episodes. Well,
you know, Gwen and Bartle were friends before
you knew either of them, and ”
“ I can guess what you’re coming to,” said
Gerty preparing to cry.
“ It’s more than I can,” I muttered inaudibly.
Then aloud : “ Oh, here’s Gwen coming up the
path. Now, Gert, take my advice—if Gwen de-
mands an explanation have it out frankly with
her.”
She slipped off her stool and went to open the
door for Gwen. I pounced upon the folded sheet
of an illustrated paper upon which she had been
sitting. It had a picture of three long-stemmed
roses in a slender glass flower-holder that hadn’t
claws. I was still looking at it when I heard
Gerty’s high voice declaring : “I was dying for
you to come, Gwen. I would have written, only
1 wanted so to ask you in speech instead of ink.
You will be my chief bridesmaid, won’t you ? Say,
yes.” There was a sound like unto a kiss. When
they came in I was at the far end of the conserva-
tory playing with the cat.
A CONOR O’BRIEN.


A Most Strengthening and Invigorating Tonic
Takes out Impurities from the blood, brings back an
appetite for good food, imparts strength to the nerves,
gives energy and power*
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
///
7/
Wm
$
i: //.
i/M
a
Mrs. I/. Kenning ton, of Station St., Petersham, New South Wales, sends us
the above portrait of herself, with the following letter :
“I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and have found it a wonderful strengthen-
ing and invigorating tonic and restorative.
“Some time ago I caught a severe cold and an attack of rheumatism fol-
lowed. I suffered terrible pains, could not eat or sleep, and feared I might be-
come a helpless invalid.
“I did not obtain any relief until I was given a prescription for ‘Sarsa-
parilla.* My husband took it to a chemist, who said, ‘Try Ayer’s.’
“ I noticed a decided improvement from the very first, and I was soon able
to do my work again. I know of several people who owe their good health to
this great medicine.” .....
These remarkable results are not due alone to the m Ayer s
Sarsaparilla. They are due to the combined action of many ingredients. No
other sarsaparilla contains the same medicines. There is no other sarsaparilla
like “Ayer’s.” This is why the people call it
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
“ Ayer’s ” cures. You know this. You have to experiment with others,
and you can’t afford to do that. _ • _
For removing impurities from the blood, for making thin blood become
rich and life-giving, for restoring strength and vitality, and for building up the
nervous system, there is but one medicine:
AYERS
Sarsaparilla
That "Cures.
It Removes Depression.
Ayer's Pills Act on the Liver, more Bile is Secreted.
FOR
24 Years
Owbridge’s Lung Tonic
has been curing-
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK EUR
I
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Owlfc-Hril.
Said m kotfcla*, at U. lAd.,
wad 11«., by all Colonial Ch*saM.
Stores, & Patent Modioio* Vandar*.
Wholesale #f all toedo* and
Colonial Houses.
a
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache,
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that JBeecham’a Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieinein
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is l£d, aud —s 9d each.
n
PLAIN HOM« TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chroinos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows Up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that oecur'to the minds of young and old, hut about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy niarri'ed life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the iinformalion em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody : public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical. PalmihtrY (latent). Post Is Od.
Dr. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
is; post l# 3d.
Beauty's Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free 1», The
Art of Wrkhtlino, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is Od post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is Od posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner's Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 8s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is Od post free.
Art«OK Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is Oil posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is <ld.
Iron Ned Kei.lv and His Gang (only true history).
Is Cd posted.
Edith O’Uorman’s Convent Like Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Datb Comic Reciter (newest), IsOd post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Cuevahhe’b Advice to a Mother, 3s Cd posted.
Wonderful Budget SonCI Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 8e ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 0d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTH. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books —most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, I 6 Park Street, SYPNEY.
m
THROAT Em
warn raw
Sm*sw&
msmm
Z.OHDOH.
INVALUABLE TO
i SIMS X SPEAKERS
9ta
Pennine
pet
BONNINGTON’S
MOSS
WILL CURE
j
That Hacking Cough
That Troublesome Cold
That Annoying Influenza
BONNINGTON’S PILLS.
REMEDY for BILE, INDIGESTION,
DISORDERED LIVER.


The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co, Ltd,
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
manufacturers
and . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brockman’s Building, Adelaide.
proper treatment all Diseases can be
CURED
but not all patients, and this depends entirely on
the condition of the digestive organs, which, if in
perfect order, will be the means of producing rich,
pure blood. Then you can laugh at disease. But
if in an imperfect state they cannot perform their
duties, and impure, weak blow! is the result.
Hence the origin of innumerable diseases. In
treatment, the main object should be to remove
the cause- not the result, that will leave of its
own accord. Some men are specialists in all
diseases, and can cure anything and everything,
but the undersigned onlv professes to cure Two
Diseases, viz., INDIGESTION and RHEUM A-
-1 ISM ; and in this city there are abundant proofs
m the persons of commercial and prominent
gentlemen who were affected in the very
worst forms. My method is—One Remedy
FOR
One Disease, and duijng my long experience I have met
these diseases—resulting in Constipation, Spinal Troubles,
Contracted Muscles, Stiff Joints, Asthma, Chronic and
Acute Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, Gout, Neuralgia,
Liver and Kidney Troubles, etc.—not only in persons
walking about, but on their backs and in their beds.
Stiff from head to foot, locked fast, immovable and dis-
figured, with but one desire, viz., that they may die.
These are the cases that I have, grappled with, and have
cured with the Remedies which I will send to any part
of the globe on receipt of
ONE POUND!
with full particulars. The digestive organs are made
healthy, the stomach, liver and kidneys thoroughly
cleansed, then the food makes rich blood, and disease
takes not only a back seat, but clears out altogether.
ARTHUR MALCOLM, Specialist,
169 Graeton-st., Woollaiira, Sydney, N.S.W.
SPOONS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
BBOT
iWiww
J. & J. MAXFIELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
MARK.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St,,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
*t«*»
We Have Stood the Test
—AND—
Walther’a Sa,cl lery
LEADS IN QUALITY AND PRICE.
WE
TRADE
TO
MAKE
MONEY
No. 1 Stockman’s
Made on strong tree, with
plated bars, plated over head
and round cautle and double
gullet plate, hogskiri seat,
fitted with stirrup leathers
and split-leather girths.
=£2 17s, 6c3..
BY BIG
TURNOVER
AND
SMALL
PROFITS.
Delivered Freight Free to any port or railway station in N.S.W., if cash
is sent with order, or 5 per cent, discount allowed to any of the adjoining
colonies. X2r OUT OUT THIS ADVERTISEMENT, and we will allow
2J- per cent. Special Bonus.
C. H. WALTHER & CO.,
24a HUNTER ST., Send for our Illustrated Price List
SYDNEY. The Best in Australia.
S. FREEMAN , SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
SPECIALTIES:
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HgAD WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER
ROBERTS
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w. C- ELDBIDGE & CO.,
DYERS A CLEANERS.
40 YOKlt STitJUKT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
rar- a blessing in every family.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these errand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sult'erers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is atones
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied tor their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER; TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxforb-st., London. &gr Pu r .
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO. LTD.
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • ••
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a tine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only |d. per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your orders to US, and we will
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
at any price. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
bad butter is dear
H. PATESON. Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
arke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
nm
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
SOLE LICENSEES FOR THE MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF
THE ROPP STRAIGHT LINE FURNACE!
A.2Xr33
Wet hey Multiple Deck Furnace with Cooling; Hearth
FOR
Roasting,
Chlorinating,
AND
Desulphurising Ores.
IN STOCK
HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL ENGINES AND BOILERS of all sizes, ROCKBREAKERS ROTTS PUT
YERISERS, CONCENTRATORS, HOISTING ENGINES, HORSE WHIMS, PUMPS of all kinds WATER
WHEELS, PULSOMETEItS, BLOWERS AND EXHAUST PANS, COMPRESSORS, ROCK DRILLS ORE par«?
SKIPS AND BUCKETS, ELECTRO-COPPER PLATES, SHAFTING AND PULLEYS, BELTING, AND OILS.
SdiAind iaivs-lS
n
mn
m
Single & Duplex,
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping
purpose.
given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
ineluding Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. F. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
nm
Engine Co.
WOK.HmuiON.
TRADE MARK.
BOILER FEED PUMP.
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AWD WITH
Gnn-metal or Iron Water Ends.
• . Send for Catalogue* . .
