

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. IRROY’S CHAMPAGNE.
3 FRY’S MALTED COCOA
GUJA-nAUTBEtP PURE COCOA A.3XTP EXI’JRAOT OF T\/r A t
R. O-. WATKINS 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors' Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
270
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
Sold.
:
SEND FOR PRICKS AND I'AUfIOULARS
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE’S GEORGE HOTE L, opposite Sfc
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF 1 for
Boarders, !>s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° as rttt street, SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTS FOB
Huston, Proctor & Co. L*
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE-PO.,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEM
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS.
bcceintrio Tcs:3Ft.A.»ia:x3sra- ikac-A-OxacusurjEis, sa/w’ jOieuktozeiiess, &0., «sfeo.
THORNFS
Established 1831.
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY.
SANBEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS ANT) LICENSED GROWER
m
HOBAH.T.
Hadley s Orient Hotel.
D.S .MAI R
°P
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2/6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
"DEST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. @r- Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
to
Month
Sold
One
Bottles
860,112
THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST*
jjfe PIONEER
LEATHER
l*,
iigß-ELTINC
The Leading neit oi Australia,
TJosavpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Use<J*exclne»vely by theN.S:W. Government.
Price s-ancPSam pies F ree to »y address.
J. C. LUDOWIGI & SON, LTD.
117
York street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; p ertji'W Aus-
traiia ; Hobatffc, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
c< Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... Post ls - 3d ‘
IMPORTANT TRIAL
. . . In the Matter of . . .
“ Wealth of Nations ” Dark Tobacco
VERDICT : IT IS THE BEST.
Dark Tobacco Smokers,
see that you obtain
THIS BRANDW
Wealth of Rations
■aoAVd avindOd ni Aiivalowiwivo
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST
IN AUSTRALIA.
Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
V ul. 22. —o. 1061. j
| Saturday, June 16, liiOO.
P postered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
GOUGHS, GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
JUJUBE
■ots.ov-
C»*Si
IN TINS, Is. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 akd 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
sdfsd
N.S.W.
W.H.O.
SEX.
m«E publication in London of anew
* I ■ - English edition of Richard von Krafft-
Ebing’s “ Psychopathia Sexualis,”
translated from the tenth German edition
(1899), accentuates wonder at the recent
effort of the * English police to sup-
press Dr. Havelock Ellis’s first volume of
studies upon a similar subject. For it re-
calls that Krafft-Ebing’s earlier edition had
been continuously on sale in England in
Chaddock’s translation ; while the number of
frankly pornographic works in the West
End booksellers’ select catalogues is little
short of legion. Yet the police chose for
pursuit a book clearly written in the inte-
rests of science upon a subject of paramount
importance not only to the English, but to
humanity; while gross versions of gross
Latin and French and Persian authors were
sold for the titillation of the baser sort under
police noses. And neither Krafft-Ebing, nor
Moll, nor Charcot, nor any other writer in
the domain of sex-psychology can claim
a more scientific spirit or a stronger grasp of
principles than can Havelock Ellis.
Richard von Krafft-Ebing is an Austrian
physician holding a medical chair in Vienna
At fifty years of age, he has now published
some dozen works dealing with nervous affec
tions and sex inversions and perversions
but only his “Psychopathia Sexualis” has
achieved world-wide celebrity. In respect
to clinical knowledge and recorded experi
ence, it is the leading work on the pathology
of Sex. But human minds are dividec
into two chief classes : those which are
attracted by principles and those which are
attracted by details. Krafft-Ebing’s mind
belongs to the latter class. He has not the
synthetic gift. In deducing the inferences
from an isolated case he is unsurpassed. But
when he seeks to combine his inferences,
and refer them to a guiding rule, his judg-
ment is not to be relied on. He lacks the
imagination which lifts a man to a height
above his subject, so that he may see hills,
and streams, and trees, not as single facts,
but as features of a landscape. And partly
as a result of this lack, he approaches the
disgusting aspects of his subject with a
moral horror—he is inclined to cant. This
quality makes his book more acceptable to
current prejudices, and also less scientific,
less worthy.
From the natural, human point of view,
health is normal, disease abnormal. To the
normal person, guided by instinct, sup-
ported by convention, the abnormal is natur-
ally undesirable, even hateful. The sight of
a leper, to most persons of European race,
is an occasion for loathing. It is not so in
many parts of Asia, where leprosy is too
common to excite horror, or even comment.
And, in proportion as the mind is cultivated,
and knowledge extends, and sympathy
widens, leprosy excites, not disgust, but
a profound pity. There are other
diseases with which, in every civilised
community, physicians and surgeons are
daily brought into contact. Many of these
diseases ruin the body with, foul sores ter-
rible to look upon. But what would be
thought of the physician or surgeon who re-
gal ded the victims of disease with a religious
horror—refused to alleviate their pains, to
cure their ills, to sympathise with their
affliction refused even to discuss their
Cases, and joined to hurl them from society
without a single endeavour to help ? The
victim of unsound sex is no more to be con-
demned than the victim of unsound lungs.
Se is just as much as much entitled to the
compassion of t he community as the typhoid
patient for whom hospitals are built. And
often it is possible to rectify an aberration
of sex just as it is possible to set a broken
limb.
W e live under the domain of undeviating
law. For every effect there is a cause, and
the chain of causation has never within
human experience been broken. Sex-
diseases are as much a part of human ex-
perience as are any other diseases. They do
not come uncaused, and t heir causes and
remedies should be studied just as the
causes and remedies of diphtheria or
neurasthenia are studied—in the interests
of humanity. But over sex in European
countries, and during later ages, a mys-
terious veil lias been drawn. .Religions
have called “unclean” the instinct upon
"which human existence depends and the
methods of Nature, in every other sphere
free to enquiry, have in the sphere of sox
been looked upon, as “indecent,” “im-
proper,” “ obscene.” It is time to
end all that. Sex is not a mystic
myth : it is a human fact; and "it
cannot be disregarded or suppressed with-
out the most serious consequences to the
individual and to the raco. The manifesta-
tions of sex are a subject for scientific en-
its aberrations are a subject for scien-
tific discussion, just as much as tho properties
of the ether and the aberrations.of the stars.
The relations of sex, whether' normal oi
abnormal, justify no more moral repro-
bation. (except in so far as moral reproba-
tion is an agent of health) than the regular
path of a planet or the apparently erratic
movements of the wind which bloweth—not
wlpther it listetb, but—whither it is com-
pelled.
We are gradually extending our know-
ledge of the properties and uses of sex in the
animal kingdom. The myths of religions
have been long discarded as theories oj
science. We know now, as assuredly as we
know almost anything not directly
perceived by the senses, that the
division of sex came comparatively late
in human evolution. There was a
time when „■ the human ancestor was
monosexual, as some of the lower animal
organisms are tb this day. And we are
gradually realising shat the sex-division into
male and female has not yet been fully com-
pleted—we are still working out our destiny.
The best current hypothesis holds that at
the time previous to birth when sex is
decided, there is a strife between male and
female germ-elements ; and though the pre-
potent elements gain the victory, the ele-
ments of the vanquished sex are only
subordinated, not destroyed. Every man
has a latent woman in him ; every woman
has a latent man in her. Individuals are
placed at varying points along a sliding-scale
of sex. At one end the male victory is
complete—you have the pronounced
vir; at the other the female victory
is complete, you have the pronounced
mutter; in the middle there has been
a drawn battle, and you have the sex-invert,
with the body of one sex, and the inner
nature of the other. The normal individual
fluctuates between the sex-poles. A woman,
she may have ten per cent, or twenty per
cent, of active male elements, and physiolo-
gically justify “ George Egerton’s ” dedica-
tion of one of her books to “a woman with
the best of man in her, and none of the
smallness of woman. ” Or a man, he may
have a percentage of active feminine
attributes while remaining, practically
speaking, none the less man ; and physiolo-
gically justify Quiller Couch’s pregnant
story of the poet whose shadow was
feminine.
To one who lives and reads with open
eyes, this hypothesis—buttressed by much
scientific evidence—becomes an indisputable
truth. It is confirmed by established proofs
of actual hermaphroditism, congenital and
acquired ; by the psychical reversal of ante-
natal sex, with obvious physical conse-
quences, which often occurs at puberty in
both sexes, at the male climacteric, or at
the female menopause ; and by the phe-
nomena of sex-pathology with which Krafft-
Ebing and kindred writers deal. And it
is-at least a working-theory which is well
worth study and elucidation.
The general character of Krafft-Ebing’s
book remains unchanged in the new edition.
A preface says it has been “ entirely re-
written ” —which is incorrect. It has been
entirely revised ; thirteen ‘ ‘ cases ’ have been
added ; and there have been considerable
modifications of the author’s text, with
some additions. The critical verdict upon
the book remains as before ; the author’s
experience is more valuable than his
historical deductions, his facts than his
theories. His book is one for physicians
and lawyers ; and a popy should be in the
hands of every Australian magistrate who is
called upon to examine sex-criminals. Then
we should witness less frequently the spec-
tacle of a man being flogged for brain-disease
in the name of Decent Civilisation.
“The unending impudence of elected persons*
—“The never-ending audacity of elected people ”
—“The never-ending audacity of the men you
elect ” Whitman’s phrase has had considerable
Australian vogue lately; and it is usually mis-
quoted—which is a pity. The line comes in the
eulogy of “the great city” (Song of the Broad-
Axe ”)
Where the slave ceases, and the master of slaves ceases ;
Where the populace rise at once against the never-ending
audacity of elected persons ; . . ..
Where the citizen is always the head and ideal—and
President, Mayor, Governor, and what not, are agents
for pay— —
the city of Brisbane, for example. People un-
touched by his poetry might read Whitman for
the sake of his politics—or of his politics-of-poetry
recorded in the prose preface to “Leaves of
Grass,” that “very remarkable” eruption of
literary lava—
Of all mankind the great poet is the equable man. . . .
The time straying towards infidelity and persiflage he
withholds by his steady faith ; he spreads out his dishes!;
he offers the sweet, firm-fibred meat that grows men and
women. . . .
There is that indescribable freshness and unconscious-
ness about an illiterate person that humbles and mocks
the power of ,'the noblest hupressiye genius. The poet
sees for a certainty how one not a great artist may he
just as sacred hud perfect as the greatest artist. . , .
It is also not consistent with the reality of the soul to
admit that there is apytiling in the known universe more
divine than nien and women! . . ,
What do you think is the grandeur of storms and dis-
memberments, and the deadliest battles and wrecks, and
the wildest fury of the elements, and the power of the
sea, and the motion of nature, and of the throes of human
desires, and dignity and hate and love ? It is that some-
thing in the soul which says,—Huge on, whirl on, I tread
master hero and everywhere; master of the spasms of
the sky and Of the shatter of tho sea, master of nature
and passion and death, and of all terror and ail pain.
And the Whitman volcano flings many such fiery
stones amid its soorim and mud.
A settlement of the jarring schemes of N.B.W.
State Art-instruction is promised during the cur-
rent session of Parliament. The Minister for
Education is said to intend asking Parliament to
end subsidy of the rival Art societies and of Art-
classes at Sydney Technical College, with the view
of establishing a system of instruction superin-
tended by N.S.W. Art Gallery trustees. The
plan is good if the details are good.
“ A crazy German addressed a letter ! To God.
In Heaven.’ The-Dead Letter Office returned it
as ‘insufficiently addressed.’”
Max O’Rell—
I was once lecturing to the students of a religious col-
lege in America. Before I began a professor stepped for-
ward and offered a prayer in which he asked the Lord to
allow the audience to see my points. This is the petition
just as it fell on my astonished earj “ Lord, thou knowest
that we work hard for thee, and that recreation is neces-
sary in order that we may work with renewed vigor. We
have to-night with us a gentleman from France whose
criticisms are witty and refined, but subtle, and we pray
thee to so prepare our minds that we may thoroughly
understand and enjoy them.”
Gr. W. L. -Marshall-Hall, whose term of office
will expire at 1900-end,'is to be asked to under-
take anew Melb. University music-professorship,
despite Bishop Goe : s vigorous protest against
“those immoral Hymns.” A public
private, morals do not matter while he keeps them
to himself; but there should really be a clause in
the Uni. agreement insisting that Prof. Hall
improve his hexameters.
The lively Correspondent—and the other cor-
respondent—
H.H.H. : “ Does not the short-paragraph system of
The Bulletin, ‘ the national Australian newspaper,’ reflect
the short-spurt, soon-.tire character of the Australian
people—impatient of long effort and long articles?”
Well, there may be something in that.
C.: Ypur troubles, in the memorable words of Mac-
naughton Jones in his “Practical Manual of Diseases of
Women," are “overweening self-confidence and ignor-
ant assurance—which we frequently meet with as weedy
growths, springing from the uncultivated soil of what
some are pleased to call their ‘ experience and which,
when we come to enquire into its claims to attention, we
find means nothing tnofle than the accumulated heaping
of ignorance on ignorance in the mental ashpit, where
the fungus of empirical experience is the only product
that remains to assert itself amidst the stagnant d&lrrU of
an uneducated and routine observation.”
THE BOOKFELLOW.
“Hoarts Importunate,” a new novel by the
Sydney writer, Evelyn Dickinson, is not a book
of literary account; but it is skilfully written, and
agreeably presents the conventional love-motive
against an Australian background. Some pages
are devoted to “ a periodical of glaring exterior,
registered under the name of the Live Un. Its
weekly cartoon was usually olover and offensive;
it dealt familiarly with every phase of colonial life
from the standpoint of vulgar irreconcilability.
What it upheld, what it admired no man might
say, but any man might be sure, week by week, of
finding some spiteful word flung where he thought
it due.” The general justice of this reference to
the Town and Country Journal seems to bo
mingled with a touch of feminine malice. Has
the Town and Country Journal rejected Miss
Dickinson’s stories ?
A bull from “ Bendee —
We was playin’ “ Tambaroora >’ for a shandy ;
There was nine of us, and Murphy had the hat,
An’ he shuk it wid a twisht that knocked us bandy,
Bayin’, “ Ev’ry wan is heads, now luk ad that 1
Them noine heads,” sez he, “ will take a lot o’ batin’!"
And he schmiled aloud to think the pool was his ;
But when Doolan yelled : “ Hould an ! There’s only eight
in !”
Oonshtemation shpread all over Murphy’s phiz.
Then he shuk the hat agin, an’ sarched the linin';
Doolan tuk the lamp and lukked about the flure,
While the chorus from all hands Was, “ I put mine in 1 ”
Murphy’s language fairly raised the temp’rature.
“ Well,” sez Doolan, thinkin’ mighty hard about it,
As he turned the cady inside-out agin,
“ Well,” sez he, “ there’s one too little—divil doubt it;
Now I wondher who the blazes put it in ? ”
Dawn in Australia.
I AM the Spirit of the Morning, the first flus
of the Dawn, the everlasting essence o
joyous \ outli. Across the broad, slow
heaving Pacific I come gaily, carelessly
wandering on to make glorious with' my kiss the
grev naked land lying ancient and lonely in the
still warm silence of the'South. How many time
have I kissed her on the mouth, this sweet love o
mine lying in her warm soft bed waiting longingl}
for theseal of love! As I come the long, long waves
breaking about her dainty feet heave and pause
creamy-pink and soft and dainty as a maiden’s
breasts. A single ship passing out at sea seems
like the lazy shadow of a dream as she headi
slowly northward for the lands of coral and o
palm. The clouds clinging softly over the ranges
flush beneath my touch, then deepen into dark
grey arid glorious crimson. ’ ;
Slowly J move onward. As I go the birds ir
tluf virgin forests waken and burst into song. A
red-topped coach creeps along the road winding
through the graceful tangled scrub. The scent oi
the eucalyptus rests over all. The driver riding
on the box of his coach looks up to greet the day
The oassenger beside.him notices the diw on his
heard, and turns to gaze on the maiden beauties
of the jewelled forest. The long lash curls
out' lightly over the loaders, the bars rattle
the pebbles crunch beneath tho wheels, and
rounding a sweep in the road, tho coach
fumbles out of sight. The parrots and cockatoos
screech noisily swinging in the tree-tops ; the
platypus swim stoalthily along tho creek, return-
ing silently to the haunts they left the evening
before. Here and there the timber-getters are
stirring in their tents.
The clouds on the ranges fall belrind. I descend
the western slopes of the ranges, rich with the
bleating of owes and lambs. A few wild-eyed,
wide-horned cattle are winding up between the
spurs, heading for the inaccessible scrub. The
ring-barked trees flush witii the beauty of the
coming day. The "bleating of the ewes and lambs
dies away in the distance; I float on.
The edge of the plains. A traveller rolling his
swag looks up to greet me as I come. Downalong the
creek horse-bells and hobbles clink melodiously. A
few gorgeous lories fly screaming up the ridges.
In the distance cattle are lowing. Far off the
crowing of a cock rises from farms, dotted with
haystacks. The traveller rises from his knees and
starts off to catch his horses. He sinks knee-deep
in the dewy herbage, whistling as he goes. The
butcher-birds and magpies answer him liquidly.
A passenger-train comes racing along, its grey
steam and lurid smoke tinging a tender pink as
they reach to the level of the light. The bands on
the engine flash out as she swings to the curve.
Behind us the sun is already climbing up toward
the top of the golden ranges. With a spring I
travel on. Nothing to stop me now; miU
and miles I go, hundreds of miles, over
homesteads where the morning smoke begins
to rise, by selections and lonely huts where
the little owl-like peoples are already astir. Every-
where I see great fleecy flocks of sheep and herds
of horses and horned cattle. The kangaroos and
wallabies disappear as. I come, the native-com-
panions trumpet clearly from their camping places
m the swamps as they prepare to journey to their
favorite feeding-grounds. The ducks splash and
quack noisily ; the wild black swans swim sedately
on, gazing proudly at their faint reflections in the
tinted water ; the stately pelicans float in lordly
fashion ; here and there trie wild turkeys come
noiselessly down for a drink and disappear in the
grass ; the reeds along the water quiver with the
first faint breath of the morning breeze.
Half my journey is done, and I touch the fringe
of the desert. Salt and spinifex and sand, with
here and there a dingo, now and then the lonely
dwelling of some fearless pioneer, or the long
weary trains of camels with their dusky drivers.
11 ren more salt and sand and spinifex, peopled
only in rare places and favored spots with weak,
thm-legged tribes of aborigines, and strange with
curious landmarks and grotesque conformations.
Then, as 1 again leap out to sea, the scattered
dwellings of the white man pass beneath me, and
behind me rise the crushing and crunching of a
thousand stampers as the little ant-like beings
begin again in their feverish haste and hurry to
tear the bowels of the earth in search of that
yellow dross they dream of and sacrifice their
iives to gain. And as I go I laugh, I the Spirit
of the Morning, the first flush of the Dawn, the
everlasting essence of a joyous Youth.
WILL. M. FLEMLNG.


DR. J. CGLLIS BROWNE'S
fHLOROPyHE
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
n
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
REITS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of SO days before
payment, whioh is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Holts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak pari.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount, paid. We mean exactly
what, we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing:, we prefer that you send
lor our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving:
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
..Iso Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
G 3 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
A
V Cureß all BYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot Irom any CUomist.
Jr Proprietor .'—STEPHEN OREEN,
210 Lambeth Rd., London, 8.15.
' Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
tor my Invaluable little pamphlot.
DRUNKEN NESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE ot DRUNKEN-
NESS Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leadin'* physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—lt. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
3B Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
SKIN A NEW
DISEASES. DISCOVERY.
“LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
UCMOLLIENE never fails to CURE ECZEMA (“Psoriasis
Acne”). BAROOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
f'hemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT, VIC.
HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL. .
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS of ENERGY,
etc. Has CURED Thousands for the BLOOD,
SKIN, NERVES, RHEUMATISM, etc.
“ WORDS_?FW.SD OM.» 0 M.» Book aboufc
the Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40
pages of useful information, and will be posted in
plain cover absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address: •
The Irving Homoeopathic Co.,
Corner Hunter and Bligh Streets,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
r ir ”. 'a:
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering ECCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
*4
O
z
3
OLD
l aUNIMG ,
\yC m%os,i
\Nw &C~lc.z' JS
L>j
r*i
i/9
&
•;Z
1
11
p fio
Pd
■■■■hhb
■
■
Actual Size Three Times Larger than Illustration .
Presentation Oases - -
of Ladies’ Scissors.
Nickel-Plated Fine Steel Scissors. —3 pair in case, 10/6;
4 pair, 12/6 ; 6 pair, 21/- per case, post free.
Oriental Design, Cold Gilt Bows, Fine Steel Scissors
(as illustration).—3 pair in case, 12/6 ; 4 pair, 17/6;
6 pair, 30/- per case, post free.
w. Jno. Bet Iter, Cutler, 3 Hunter-at., Sydney,
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices : 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
STORES : CENTRAL WHARF.
SOLE CHARGE—3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
S "ST 3XT lE3 Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE~TO WOOLGROWERS
” New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over Cd. per lb.,
the charge will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ...
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of Marsupial Skins heldL Weekly.
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
s£v
LAWRENCE’S PATENT TOBACCO CUTTER.
Price £6.
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
Note. —These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended to tobacconists
ji the country, so as to enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Cut and Moist Tobacco.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.
m
Combines Perfection of
Quality with Absolute
Purity.
IN
BLACK BOTTLE
AND
BULK
EVERYWHERE.
p for DM
( tfT* OU>
?<€£
'ytilWMl
ROCHEST€R LOP(SC
Collins Place East, Melbourne.
Private Boarding Establishment.
M °st Ce “tral and Healthy Position in the
Oity. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Terms Moderate. rs - M'CLELLAND,
„ Proprietress.
I'll Try If
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
toanypartot Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
I’rJce, 10s. Od.
Sole Agents :
m
lhe Result.
Craig & Aitken, GBO-652 George-st„ Sydney
AMUSEMENT for OLD and IOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X 716)4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Medical,
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
n
mn
MEDICATOR.
OATAHKII is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breutli offen-
sive, breaks down t lie affected
tissues, consumes the nasul car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal boneß of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through Iho lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure V If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
lironehitis, Asthma, llay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Hon?e Catarrh CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
« COMMON SENS- JE? EAR DIIUM.”
THE
SHE
/COMPLETELY restore the
■ Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in tlie ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
JED
DEAF
m
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address A. M. NASTj 145 Collins St.j Melbourne.
n
ROpttire
TXT HEN we say “RUPTURE CURED”
'' we mean it, for it is a fact that
thousands of cures have been accomplished by Dr.
Pierce’s World-renowned ELECTRIC TRUSS during 1
the past twenty-five years. There is nothing else like it
on earth ! It does the work ! Have received so many
letters and testimonials that we hardly know what to do
with them all. If ruptured investigate at once. Our
prices are reasonable, but not cheap. We make no dis-
counts. “Dr. Pierce’s” is THE Truss, and you cannot
be happy till you get it.
You can get our “ BOOKLET No. 1” for nothing by
calling, or it will be sent to you on receipt of a . stamp.
It tells all about this TRUSS. Address :
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO., U.S.A.;or
160 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 i’kr Cunt.
carbolic Powder,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/0
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
Dear Sir.—Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple' and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
t (all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. .W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chamber*
Titt-strcet, Sydney.
m
A
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
HINERY.


TATTERSALL’S.
Adaress: Care geo.
ADAMS, Hobart.
Canterbury Midwinter H.
June 23.
25,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in above.
Name
Address
Grand National H. 7
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
x
x
Address
Silver City C.
July 25.
25,000 Subscribers at 5,
To TATTEKSALL.
Please allot me.
-shares in above.
Name,.
Address
Silver City C. (special).
DRAWN MORNING OF THE RACE.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
s
Adelaide G.N.H. August 11.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above.
Name .
Address
Caulfield C.
October 20.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name.
Address.
8
Melbourne C. November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
' %
Name.
Address _
Melbourne 0. November 6.
Please allot me. _shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tattersall,” care Greo. Adams, Hobart.


modern
MILLING MACHINERY-
\
\
BAND SAW MILLS. OIROULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 01arence-st., Sydney.
i’S
PA**>
E»ca'#J
sr> ss
C 0 uatV> wS -
Ad '«" 1
•j\v°-
THIN
%
HAIR
Lots of peo-
ple have thin
hair. Per-
haps their
parents had
thin hair; per-
haps their
children have
thin hair. But
this does not
make it neces-
sary for them
to have thin hair.
One thing
you may
rely upon-
makes the
hair healthy
and vigor-
ous ; makes
it grow
M&in
¥isor
thick and long. It cures dan-
druff also.
It always restores color to
gray hair, —all the dark, rich
color of early life. There is
no longer need of your look-
ing old before your time.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies the blood,
and clears the complexion.
Prepared by Dr. j. C. Ayer k Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A
CHEAP AND FASHIONABLE TAILORING.
CG. HATTE, of King-street, Newtown (near Sydney,
• N.S.W,), has recently made great additions and im-
provements to his Tailoring Department, which is now one
of the features of his extensive business. He receives regu-
lar shipments, from his Home buyers, of all the newest and
most fashionable goods, and has one of the smartest cutters
in the colony. Everything is made to measure on the pre-
mises; a perfect fit is guaranteed, and patrons may rely on
every satisfaction being given. Self-measurement forms
and patterns sent free bypost, Hatte’ssuitsof Indigoserge,
all-wool tweeds,and sergerettes (with extra pair of trousers
given in) for 42/- are the marvel of tailoring and the talk of
Australasia, For 56/- Hatte makes asuit of tweed or serge
fit for a prince. Inspect or send for patterns of his new
woollens, comprising vicunas, Westof England, Scotch ana
Blarney tweeds, at 57/6. and 65/- ; the great value offered.
Hatte makes a smart Chesterfield overcoat from meltons,
vicunas, ami Venetians from 45/-, and the new paddock
coat, with full back, side vents, crescent pockets, silk-faced
and velvet collar for 55/-. Hatte’s speciality is in dress-
suits, starting at £3 3s, made of purple dye elastic coating
with silk-facing. For excellence of material, perfect fit,
latest fashion, and superior workmanship, Hatte is un-
equalled, whilst his charges are at least 30 per cent, under
those of ordinary city tailors.
On Our Selection: „ .
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd ). Cloth
extra, illustrated, 6s.
AOStralljf) Providcpt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Oi on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
°’! r Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the Drivilene of renavW note
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or any fine
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
nmn
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
£3T Send for Price List.
H. HILLIES, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
£9B
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNK-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
Eirst-elass Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLING
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
Wmi
The
I Celebrated
Authoress,
MRSE.LYIiN
UNION,
says
“ I ha c useu
your • it' KO ’
n: w Bincii June
last, and 1 have
not only «t pped
the fulling out,
will, li had licen
excels! vc after u
severe Illness,but
lhavean entirely
new gn wth of
hair, wli.le the
eld hair is longer
As 1 iin not a
young woman,
hut an old ope, 1
think this Is n
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion."
V;
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS. STORES, ETC.
KOKO MARICOPAS COY., LTD., 16,
BEVIS MARKS, LONDON, ENGLAND.)
Harry Franks,
VICKERY’S BUILDINGS,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I have the representation in Australasia of this
“DEY REGISTER.”
Used by Employers as a check on their Employees.
£
Ji
Call and see same at
above address, it is
well worth inspection ;
or write for particulars.
•**
ssil
I have the representation also of the
“HAMILTON
CASH REGISTER.’’
Certainly the CHEAPEST on the market,
and AS GOOD AS ANY out here.
If you are a Buyer of a CASH REGISTER,
I can SAVE you MONEY on your Purchase.
EDM AN SON A CO., Block Arcade , Melbourne A gent.
3NT.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf. Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pav ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying- from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s.. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SA PULERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They canpot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUII SPECIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
m
Differed at any Wharf «r
N.S.W. Kail nays, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Asleep.
The bird that bears the Spring,
Throwing her to the bud,
And winnows with his wing
Her cloister solitude,
May be your soul’s escape
In a delicious shape.
Is it the wind that blows
Dreamily down the brook ;
Or tangled in a rose
Beneath the rainbow’s crook,
Where she her love has told
Into its starry fold ?
Whithersoe’er it flits,
Beauty and love are there !
Only thy soul admits
Only the true and fair . . .
Waken ! and let me be
Chosen to dwell with thee !
M.L.
HUBERT CHURCH.
A Year A go.
The wattle-birds are screaming—Am I mad or am
I dreaming ?
The wattle-birds are screaming where the honey-
suckles grow,
And cruel guns are flashing in the ti-tree scrub,
and crashing,
The wattle-birds are falling as they fell a year ago.
A year ago we courted, in the ti-tree scrub we
sported,
The wattle-birds were merry in the honeysuckles
then;
We had no dream of sorrow, we were eager for the
morrow —
He married me; he left me. Curse the folly of
the men!
He heard the call to battle, and he left me with
the cattle—
He loved me true and tender, but he left me all
the same ;
He talked so big of glory. Oh, my God ! hear
thou the story,
A baby in a cradle, and a grave without a name !
He knew there was a “ kiddy,” and he joked
about a “widdy ”
A young and blooming “ widdy” with a paddock,
and some cows.
The wattle-birds are screaming. Am I mad or
am I dreaming?
A year ago we courted ’neath the honeysuckle
boughs.
My heart is full to breaking. Will it ever cease
its aching ?
Enough we had to keep us and a tidy bit to spare;
His love for me grew fonder. Now he lies away
out yonder,
Where hungry birds are screaming in the pesti-
lential air.
The wattle-birds come hither, and they go I know
not whither,
But every time I hear them they will bring him
back to me.
In war there may be glory. Oh ! how many tell
this story :
A baby in a cradle, and a grave across the sea ;
A heart bowed down with sorrow, and a shrinking
from the morrow—
The wattle-birds are screaming where the honey-
suckles grow;
The cruel guns are flashing in the ti-tree scrub,
and crashing,
And we were there together—life was sweet —a
year ago !
Vic.
ANDREW SARD.
The Three Roads.
There is a town in Ireland,
A little town I know ;
Its girls have tender Irish eyes
Beneath their brows of snow ;
And in the fields around it
The Fairy Hawthorns grow.
O, the Hawthorn is a Queen
And the da i 'hter of a King,
And arriiitst her branches green
The sweet brown thrushes sing.
And from that little city
Three roads forever run ;
And on those roads the people,
The father and the son,
The mother and the daughter,
Walk till the day is done.
O, the Hawthorn is a Queen
And the daughter of a King,
And amidst her branches green
The thrushes sadly sing.
One road runs to the seaport
Where stately vessels lie—
American, Australian —
The weeping exiles cry,
“Farewell to Grave and Hearthstone !
Dear Ireland—good-bye!
O, the Hawthorn is a Queen
And the daughter of a King,
And amidst her branches green
“ Farewell /” the thrushes sing.
One road it is a red, red road—
That road to England goes ;
The battle-drums are sounding,
The trump of battle blows;
And Ireland’s sons go forth to fight
Against Red England’s foes.
0, the Hawthorn is a Queen
And the daughter of a King,
And within her heart of green
The mournful thrushes sing.
One road it is a quiet road ;
They travel it full slow,
Their eyes are filled with sorrow,
The silent folk who go
To where the Stones of Silence
Are shining, row on row.
O, the Hawthorn is a Queen
And a Lady fair and grand,
And the thrushes sing the keen
Of the Dead —in Ireland.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


THE
PLUM
n
Price—SlNG LB RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ;or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
. markefc » and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS .
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Countrv
CRAIG & AITKEAT, 680 GEORGE
and Intercolonial Cheques.
ST., SYDNEY.
P* Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
T HIS . SOCIETY ,in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the
which issues Special Policies granting—
T. Remission nf nrAnnrfinn a.
_ ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
it R A e,^ o "°l P , ro^ r,, r 0f P rei ! lium in the event Of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness. eniioou.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., H.L.C., Chairman:
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.Q.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £230,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
m
FEDERAL raws HOTEL.
MELBOURNE.
ROOMS AND ACCOMMODATION—ALL
PRICES— Ss. to 12s. PER DAY.
30s. to £3 10s. PER WEEK, OR ROOMS
AND MEALS CAN BE PAID FOR
SEPARATELY.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE.
H. Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
WOO LG ROWERS!
The enormous amounts that we have expended
in building WAREHOUSES for the
most advantageous display of your Wool and Produce is one of the wavs in which we have studied your interests
before our own.
our supporters.
IT IS OUR POLICY to never spare our own resources in getting every possible good result for
GIVE US
YOUR SUPPORT
ALL THE EXPERTS and BUYERS pronounce our Warehouses:
.THE BEST IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE!
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L T °
Financiers; Wool , Hides , Tallow, Shins , cmc? General Produce Probers.
1
brand
X7
QZ
ZCi
%
&
%
hM
ol
n
v
STICK T©
GAME©
eiGHRETTES
fX
x>
I
I
it’S Likely
You’ve not thought of
The Great Saving
BOTH
INITIAL
AND
FINAL
COST
A ROOF
Psß RUBEROID ROOFING
Laid over a Foundation of Wire Netting.
IRON FACTS.
20 sqra. (21 cwt,) 20 G. Cor. Gal. Iron £2O 0 0
Spring Head Nails (15 lbs.) 1 0 10 0
Ridging, 12/-; Guttering, llO 0
Labor for fixing Iron (20 sqrs.), 3f- p. sq 3 0 0
» ~ Ridging and Guttering 110 0
Rail to
{Ar middle
Narrabri
Nynyan
Narrandcra
Albury
}
Ota.’Trucks, Sydney £26 10 0
•APPROXIMATELY £5 10 0
£32 0 O
RUBEROID FACTS.
20 sqs. (10 Rolls) 2-ply P & B Ruberoid
20 sqs. (5 Rolls) 36" x 16 x 3" Wire Nett, 12/
Labor for fixing Ruberoid (20 sq.) and Nett, 4/-
Ridging not required
Gutters formed of Ruberoid
2!j Gals. Cement
20 lbs. 1" Nails = 151bs. of Caps
Extra allowance for forming Rul
No Cost,
xl. Gutters
Rail to
(A rmidale
Narrahri I
Nynnan ' V
Narrantler a I
Albury J
On Trucks, Sydney <£22 0 O
APPROXIMATELY
£3 0 0
<£2s O 0
E. RICH & CO. LIE: SYDNEY * BRISBANE.
EXCLUSIVELY SQUATTERS’ SUPPLY MERCHANTS.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 21.—N0. 1061.
SATURDAY, JUNK 16, 1000.
Prior 6n.
THE DOG AND THE SHADOW AGAIN.
(With apologies to the late Mr. Esop.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the A astral inns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in JilacTc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient,
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
• — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
<k Co., ComhUl.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 3l£ Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., S 3 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and. Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — l \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, JUNE 16, 1900.
The Federating Philp.
The question as to what on earth Premier
Philp meant by it has greatly agitated
Federalist circles for the last few days. For
Premier Philp, of Queensland, has broken
out in a new place, and the reason of it is
difficult to arrive at. Nor can anyone
imagine whether the breaking-out is a soli-
tary explosion or part of a new scheme of
policy with explanatory hreakings-out to
follow. The only perfectly-certain thing is
that it is usually the safest policy to think
the worst of the Queensland Continuous
Ministry, which has never been known to go
straight except during the short time that
its very temporary leader, Dickson, was
running the Federal cause, and even then
it only went straight with difficulty, and
not much straighter than a rainbow at best.
Probably Dickson, on that memorable occa-
sion, used up all the straightness the Con-
tinuous Ministry ever had, and left it more
crooked than ever. At all events, his suc-
cessor seems to have resumed the zig-zag
eourse which characterised the Continuous
gang in the pre-DiCKSON days, and the fol-
lowing telegram, addressed by him to Premier
M‘Lean, of Victoria, is the first sign of a
new wobble :
In view of the fact that the majority of members of
both Houses of the Q. Parliament have expressed approval
of Mr. Chamberlain’s original amendments in the special
clause of the Commonwealth Bill, I deem it my duty to
intimate to you that in view of the Imperial Govt, decid-
ing to adhere to the present amendments, this Govt, will
demand the insertion of a clause requiring the consent of
the local Parliament to be obtained before the measure
becomes operative in Queensland.
* • *
This reads very like the truculent demand
of a very stupid man that he shall be author-
ised to remain where he has been all along
and where he would be in any case. For no
person of any sense doubts, or has ever
doubted, that the Parliament of Queens-
land and all the other Parliaments
have power to reconsider the Common-
wealth Bill if ifc comes back in an
amended shape. It is impossible thatj it
can be otherwise. The Bill is both an
Australian and an Imperial measure. When
it, in its final and completed form, has been
accepted by the British Government and by
all the Australian Parliaments concerned,
then the Commonwealth will begin, but nofc
till then. The Australian Parliaments and
people have certainly accepted a Bill, but if
the Bill which comes back from England
isn’t the same Bill, however small the
divergence, the amendment must be also
accepted before the Commonwealth can
start. Nobody in his senses ever dreamed
that the acceptance of one Bill (the one
which went to England) involved auto-
matically the acceptance of any different
Bill which might come back frjm England.
Ihe British Parliament might choose to
turn the elective Senate into an hereditary
House of Peers, or to insert a plural
property-vote, or to abolish the payment of
members clause, or to insert clauses pro-
viding that Freetrade should be for ever
and ever the policy of the Common-
wealth, or that the State lands should
be handed over to the Federal Treasury ;
in fact the British Parliament has power to
alter every separate clause of the measure
out of all semblance of its former self. It
hfis the power to leave nothing of it but the
preliminary “ Whereas,” and to turn the
Bill for establishing an Australian Common-
wealth into a Bill for creating an Imperial
Federation and shifting the centre of Aus-
tralian government to London. But no
person in the full possession of his faculties
that Tiie Bulletin has met supposed that
because Australia agreed to the measure as
it was, Australia thereby became bound to
agree to any kind of measure that it might
become.
• • * *
If the Bill is altered by even one word the
assent of the Australian Parliaments is
legally required before anything further can
be done. The assent of the Australian
people is also required in a moral sense, for
the Bill is their Bill, created by their elected
representatives, and is not the Parliament’s
Bill in any shape or form whatever—but that
is another question. If any Parliament
refuses to agree to whatever amendment the
British Legislature may make in the Bill,
and the people don’t overrule its decision,
and the British Legislature doesn’t change
its mind, then one province drops out of the
Commonwealth. Therefore Premier Philp
is loudly demanding that Queensland shall
be granted a power which it possesses
already, and which every reasonably coherent
individual knows that it possesses. And
whether Premier Philp has some fathomless
reason for doing this, or is doing it because
he is an unfathomable ass, is a question
that Queensland ought to ask Philp in a
tone of some slight urgency.
* * * *
That Philp is a traitor to the people’s
cause there is hardly a shadow of doubt.
The real question is whether he is only a
traitor, or is a traitor and a monumental
blunderer in addition, or is a traitor with
some scheme too deep for ordinary compre-
hension. The people of Queensland, by
a considerable majority, accepted the
Bill as it stands—every word and line
and clause of it. It is useless to urge
that they weren’t separately consulted on
the Court of Appeal clause—the one which
Joseph Chamberlain proposes to alter—
and that their views on that clause are not
really known. They weren’t separately con-
sulted on any clause, but they accepted the
lot, and no one has a right to go behind that
definite acceptance. Yet when Joseph
Chamberlain chose to abolish the appeal
clause which the people of Queensland had
sanctioned, and replace it by something
totally different, the Queensland Parliament
assented by Premier Philp s invitation. It
cordially urged Joseph to abolish the clause
the people had accepted and put in one
which they hadn’t accepted. And now that
Chamberlain has modified his views, and pro-
poses to abolish the clause which the Queens-
land people accepted, and the one which the
Queensland Parliament accepted without
consulting the people, and put in something
different from either of them, Premier
Philp gives way to unaccountable excite-
ment, and demands the thing he possesses
already in a way that arouses popular deri-
sion.
* * • *
When the amended Bill comes back the
Queensland Parliament undoubtedly has
power to reject it by its own authority on
account of the amendment. It has this
power whether the British Parliament form-
ally gives it the power or not. It can do
this without giving the people any chance to
say whether they want the amended Bill or
not—if it has the brassy insolence to over-
ride the people’s verdict, and ignore the
people’s rights, and disfranchise the whole
community ; and provided the people don’t
rise up and kick the Philp Government into
small dust by reason of the grossness of the
insult. Even if the British Parliament in-
serts forty clauses in the Bill, each recognis-
ing forty times over the Queensland Legis-
lature’s technical right to reject the Bill on
its own authority because of Chamberlain’s
amendment, it can’t make that technical
right any better than it is. And if the
Federal majority in Queensland is definitely
resolved hot to let the Parliament undo its
work, or ignore its indubitable moral right to
decide the question itself, 400 such clauses
wouldn’t make the Philp Government any
safer after the rejection, or prevent the
creation of a new Government that
would reverse Pinup's act. The British
Parliament can’t insert a clause providing
that, if the Philp Government persuades
Parliament to reject the Commonwealth Bill
because of Chamberlains amendment, it
shall be illegal for the Queensland people to
be angry thereat, or to throw Philp out on
his ear at next election. And that is the
only thing that would do Philp any good.
* * • *
The balance of evidence is that Philp is a
traitor and an ass. If he were an honest
man and an ass, too ignorant to know that
Queensland hasn’t already the power to
reject the Bill because of amendments, but
sincerely desirous that Queensland should
not be driven into a possibly objectioh&ble
Constitution, his voice would be heard
asserting (needlessly but honestly) the
right of the people to accept or re-
ject the amended Bill at a new Re-
ferendum. As a traitor and an ass,
his demand would naturally be that the
Queensland Parliament shall have the right
by itself to reverse the people’s decision
upon a pitiably small excuse. And thus the
clumsy Philp. by loudly demanding the
power to treacherously reverse the people’s
verdict, gives the people due warning that
treachery is at least in contemplation. The
possible plea that he merely wants to con-
serve the rights t>f the Queensland Parlia-
ment is too thin ; if the conservation was
needed, and if he was an honest democrat,
he would be at least as anxious to conserve
the rights of the Queensland people as of the
Legislature. And yet it seems incredible
that any politician could bo so ignorant as to
imagine there is any necessity for such a
clause as Philp proposes. And it seems
still more incredible that he should propose
such a thing merely for the sake of
the little extra delay his absurd
demand might create in England.
And the idea that it is all some obscure and
hideous kind of joke that Philp has invented
to keep his spirits up during the cold weather
seems the most incredible of all. Barring a
reasonable certainty about the badness and
meanness of Piiilp’s motives, based on the
fact that he isn’t complaining because it is
proposed to reverse the people’s verdict on
the appeal clause, but because the people’s
verdict isn’t being reversed with sufficient
vigor, everything is mysterious.
The A.M.P. Job.
The frantic anxiety displayed now, and for a long
time past, by the board of the A.M.P. Society to
extend the operations of that huge institution to
London is at last rousing this community to
inquire what influential person or persons want so
very badly to go to England to manage the pro-
posed new venture, and pose in the limelight of
Imperialism as the embodiments of Australia’s
freat life-assurance society ? Who among them
ave grown so weary of a mere provincial city
that they want to get profitable and comfortable
billets in the world’s metropolis, even if half the
bonuses of the A.M.P.’s policy-holders are sacri-
ficed in order to provide them with these billets ?
The question is a perfectly fair one, for the board
is pushing along this disastrous idea with such
unscrupulous energy that it is impossible for a
bad, corrupt, censorious world—a world that has
been there itself —not to suspect some personal
motive behind it all.
* • * *
If the A.M.P. goes to London, opens an exten-
sive office in that city of stupendous rents, hires a
staff, manager and directors, spends a lot of money
on advertising, creating agencies, cabling to Aus-
tralia, &c., and then doesn't do a large business,
the proceeding must be a loss. If it does a large
business, the proceeding must be a worse loss—to
Australian policy-holders. If the English busi-
ness grows to be as large as the Australian one,
the loss must be tremendous—to the Australian
policy-holders. In the first place, the Britisher in
Britain is, comparatively speaking, a short-lived
person compared with the person of British
descent in Australia. The average death-rate of
the seven Australian provinces is 124 deaths per
annum out of every 10,000 inhabitants. In Great
Britain and Ireland it is 181. Last year, the
A.M.P. showed a splendid surplus of £560,000,
with which to provide bonuses for policy-holders,
and the policy-holders were glad accordingly. Of
this sum £316,000 arose through the fact that the
Australian policy-holder is an unusually long-lived
animal. If the Society’s present business was
equally divided between Australasia and England
the shorter duration of life in England would
have reduced this profit from £316,000 to
probably somewhere about one-half. If the
A.M.P. goes to England now, and there con-
trives, in course of time, to build up as large a
business as it has in Australia, it will make, on the
present figures and on the present death-rate of
both countries, an annual profit of about £300,000
from the low mortality in Australia, and perhaps
of £50,000 from the same cause in Britain. And
when the two are lumped together and divided,
the English policy-holders will get the finest
bonuses known in England, and the Australian
ones will lose to make up these bonuses.
Doing a large business in England necessarily
means investing a considerable portion of the
funds there also. The A.M.P.’s funds invested in
Australasia yield £4 11s lOd per cent, per annum.
The average British rate is now more like
4 per cent. ; in many cases it is less than 34.
Last year £166,000 of the A.M.P.’s gorgeous
bonuses arose from the fact that the interest
actually earned was so much above the estimate.
If half the funds had been invested in Britain this
item of profit would have sunk to about £llO,OOO
or £lOO,OOO. The A.M.P. makes the bulk of its
profits from the fact that Australian mortality is
low (and the management proposes raising it by
going shares in a country where mortality is high),
and from the fact that interest is high* (and the
management proposes lowering it by going shares
in a country where interest is low).' The Colonial
Mutual, by the way, has done exactly what the
A.M.P. proposes doing. Some inquiring person
might compare the two offices.
* * * *
The A.M.P. Society pays bonuses such as are
hardly dreamt of in England even by first-class
offices. And this arises solely from the fact that
it confines its busines to a country where interest
is high and the death-rate low. Its low expense
rate has nothing to do with the great lead it has
obtained over some of the best British offices, for
the average British expense rate is almost exactly
the same as the A.M.P.’s. And it is already com-
plained that the funds are so vast as to make the
finding of profitable investments difficult —so it is
proposed to take desperate means to make them
still more vast. And the only coherent reason
assigned is that some Australians and others in
England want a branch office there so that they
may take out policies conveniently. But as the
Australian in England isn’t likely to live so long
by a number of years as the Australian in Aus-
tralia, and his earlier death means that the man
in Australia must do with smaller profits —why
should the latter sacrifice his money for the benefit
and convenience of a person he, as a rule, doesn’t
know even by name ? The fact that the aggregate
person in London may want to share equally in
the profits of a venture where he will, on an
average, put in less capital (t.e., a smaller number
of annual premiums) than his partner, the aggre-
gate person in Australia, is very touching, but
lots of people (including burglars) also want to
share equally in other people’s profits, and large
expensive blue men named Morphy are hired to
see that they don’t do it.
• • • »
In two ways the management is playing the
policy-holders with loaded dice over this business.
It keeps raising the question over and over again
no matter how definitely the policy-holders say
No. It won’t let the No be decisive, and if it
raises the matter often enough it must some day,
by some dodge or wile or fako, get a snatch vote
in the affirmative. Then it will say that the
matter is closed, and offer the policy-holders no
chance to reverse the vote. If it is agreed that A
and B are to toss up persistently, but B’s wins are
not to count, and they are to keep at it till A
wins, and A’s win is to count, and then they are
to stop short so that B can’t get his money back
again, A must win in the end. In this case the
management is A and the policy-holders are B—
the worst kind of B. And the vote the manage-
ment proposes to take looks a very shabby kind of
double-shuffle. The board doesn’t send each
policy-holder a voting-paper so that every vote
must be either a Yes or a No. It sends no
voting paper at all. Instead each policy-holder
receives a paper to be signed appointing director
Abbott or director Littlejohn his agent to vote
for him at the meeting where the matter is to lie
decided. He is informed that Abbott or Little-
john will record his vote for the extension of the
business to London unless otherwise directed !
There is no intimation as to how to direct these
excited gentlemen otherwise. It is explained that
the voter may put in the name of some other
director to represent him. But the name of any
director who is willing to take up the other Hide
of the argument isn’t given. All the votes of the
people who simply sign and return their proxy
papers in ignorance or indifference, because it
seems dishonest not to do so when the Society has
enclosed a stamped envelope for the return
of the document—all these votes, and they
are sure to be many, will bo used in favour
of the disastrous extension policy I ! This dodge
gives every possible chance to the crowd which
wants to go to London, and as little as possible to
the other crowd. Once more—who among the
society’s authorities, or whose wife, is so anxious
for a good billet and an exalted social position in
the world’s capital that lie should get down to such
devices as these to secure it ?
The Crime of Not Rejoicing-.
Fitzgibbon’s Melbourne Metropolitan Board of
Works— or rather that section thereof which forms
the Officers’ and Servants’ Committee—started
out recently to demonstrate its lovalty by per-
forming an extra-mean and pitiful craw], and
carried the thing so far that even intensely-Jingo
Melbourne was naif-inclined to kick the wretched
combination of worms for its servility. It takes
a good deal to make Melbourne feel sick in such
matters, but the Officers’ and Servants’ Committee
of the Fitzgibbon board made some of it feel very
bad indeed in broad daylight on the Board’s
palatial doorstep. On Mafeking-drunk day the
Board’s employes obtained the use of the Board-
room in which to yell “ Goi)-save ” and otherwise
neglect their work, and take the Lord’s name ir-
reverently and mixed with beer, and make a
horrible and unseemly disturbance. Three foreign-
bom employes refused to come and yell, and pre-
ferred to go on with the business for which the
suffering country paid them. And for this the
Officers’ and Servants’ Committee recommended
that they receive the sack within a week in order
that “disloyalty” should be put down, and the
blessed freedom of this glorious country be mani-
fested.
* * * *
Melbourne Age, which, despite its Jingoism,
preserved a decent and impartial attitude in the
matter, allowed one of the three alleged “dis-
loyalists ” (a mechanical engineer) to state his case
in its columns—which he did thus :
By the direction of the chairman I was ordered to go
down to the board’s room to sing “ God Save the Queen.”
I replied that I did not sing to orders. Some time
afterwards, about 50 officers assembled in front of my
room, opened the door, and sang patriotic songs, gave
three cheers for Baden-Powell ana others, and heartily
hooted me and my foreign room-mates, and also told us to
go back to Germany. They then left, but came back after
a. while, and one of them pinned a paper outside to the
lintel of the door-frame. Thinking it was an insulting re
mark, I went to it, pulled it down, crushed it between
my hand, and threw it away without looking at it. The
man then rushed into the room, and, in a threatening
manner, charged me with having insulted the “ British
flag.” I asked him how, as 1 did not see any, and he re-
ferred to the paper I had pulled down, and" on examina-
tion I saw the “ Union Jack ” painted on one side. Then
he wanted to put it up again ; this I resented, telling him
he came simply to start a row, and that he had no right
to come and pin anything to the door. He then tried to
strike me, but was prevented by some officer. He then
abused me, charging me with disloyalty and sympathy
for the Boers, to which I replied, “ Yes," I do sympathise
with the poor Boers ! ” Some more cheering and hooting
followed, and the deputation went down to the entrance
of the Rialto, where they aw'aited our arrival. After we
had walked through them, they formed in line behind us,
waving the British flag, singing patriotic songs, and hoot-
ing. Some unsuccessful attempts were made to jostle us
and knock our hats off. This gentlemanly behaviour con-
tinued while we followed our usual route home till we
reached Swanston-street, where we parted from our plea-
sant companions. I subsequently had to appear before
the Officers’ and Servants’ Committee, where 1 had to give
a full confession of my political opinions and what I might
do 50 years hence. The chairman and some commissioners
gave me a fair and impartial hearing, but others looked at
me as if they would like to submit me to the tortures of
the Spanish Inquisition. These are the plain facts,
which I think will be certified to by the deputa-
tion which honored me with its visit. With regard
to being ordered to sing, the messenger asserts that
he said, “the chairman wishes you to sing.” This my
fellow - officer and I deny. Summed up, it comes
to this : My first alleged offence, not to sing when ordered
to, is one that I would again repeat under similar circum-
stances, and even if I were “ requested,” I would reserve
for myself the right whether Ido so or not. My second
alleged offence of having insulted the British Flag was an
unintentional one at the start, arid what I did afterwards
would, I maintain, have been done by any plucky Britisher
if it had been forced upon him in a similar manner in any
foreign country. Altogether I feel certain that those
gentlemen who took part in the flag episode first and in
the street scene after have done more to disgrace the true
significance of the British flag than my so-called “ dis-


lnnltv”? I would disgrace the glorious traditions of my
native country, Switzerland, if I did not openly claim and
exercise without hypocrisy the right to hold and give 1
opinion with regard to anything pqlitjca. which m y ‘
the country in which I have made ray home since 18 10,
and during which time I have had to hsten continuous }
to the proud boast of British fair play and freedom o
speech. •
• • * .
Melbourne on Mafeking-drunk day was certainly
not a good place for foreigners, however peaceful.
It was a day when the Victorian displayed m their
worst form the bad qualities he charges against
the Boer—his alleged ignorance, prejudice, in-
tolerance, narrow-mindedness, bigotry, hatred ot
foreigners, cowardice (the cowardice that makes
ten men jump on one), all ware there. In the
case of the three employes who didn t holler the
Anthem, it isn’t alleged that they expressed
any anti-British feeling—they merely committed
the hideous sin of remaining neutral. _ lhey
were in the same situation as a Briton in
China just now who doesn’t burst his throat
screaming for the Empress during the present
civil war, or an Englishman in Constantinople
during the Russo-Turkish war of ’77 who didn t
carry a big banner in the streets and bellow for
Abdul Hamid. They were among the very few
Melbournians who didn’t insult the British nag
by being seen drunk in its company—many of
the Jingoes became sick as well as drunk m
the latter hours, and did things to their
penny flag that are better left unsaid.
It wasn’t alleged against the three that they
made any disturbance—the Jingo hoodlums
did that. Nor that singing the anthem was
part of their work and that they neglected their
work by not doing it. Nor that they were engaged
on the understanding that they would enthusias-
tically approve of all British wars and rejoice to
order, and that their indifference was a breach of
contract. There was no Jingoism in their agree-
ment with the Board. And they lived in a pro-
vince which had for months been cursing all
foreigners—except, perhaps, Japanese and Ameri-
cans—as enemies and “pro-Boers,” till the most
blankly indifferent kind of foreigner felt
that the narrow-minded and hoggish Jingo
was a load beyond human endurance. The
peremptory order to come and holler and
wave the penny flag of joy, was one which
neither the Board nor any of its officers had
the least right to give. There is nothing in the
Act by which the Board is constituted giving it
any power to order its employes to rejoice, sing,
yell, jump, wave flags, or stand on their heads on
any political or religious or social grounds, and the
person who gave such orders should be promptly
discharged for grievously overstepping his duty.
* * * *
The stereotyped plea of the Jingo in such cases
is that, if the foreigner’s gratitude to the country
which did him the favour of taking him in and
sharing with him the blessings of its institutions
isn’t sufficiently strong to make him think as the
majority thinks, or to be a liar and nail he thinks
that way even when he doesn’t, he should clear
out. Yet, the loudest political yell in Australia is
that “what this country wants is population,”
and that can only mean that any sober, clean, in-
telligent, industrious person who settles here does
this country a favour by coming—not that the
country does him a favor by letting him come.
Australia is crying out all the time for clean,
hard-working and intelligent Europeans of all
sorts to come and help to develop the country’s
resources, to help to open it up, to help All its
empty spaces, to help carry the burden of its huge
debt. At the time when this particular Switzer
came to Victoria it was such a kindness to the
place for any decent individuals to come to it that
the State paid them for doing it, and asked no
questions about their political views. And so long
as this foreigner paid his taxes, lived respectably
and gave sufficient value for his wages, lie did
Victoria a service by living in it, and Victoria
should be grateful. If Victoria is blessed with
free institutions, as it says, he probably did his
share in making them free, and Victoria should
again be grateful. An industrious, intelligent
human being who attends to his work, keeps the
peace, and doesn’t get drunk and yell, is a valuable
asset, and this Switzer gave Victoria an asset by
living in it; and Victoria, as a place th it has many
asses and none too many assets, should be grateful
some more. Yet apparently it isn’t—or part of it
isn’t.
» • * »
Yet even in Victoria the abject servility of
the Officers’ and Servants’ Committee of Fitz-
gibbon’s Board was too sickening. The Agk ex-
plained to it straight what a creeping moral worm
it was. And a deputation of (mostly Scotch) par-
sons, one of whom (Rev. W. Hopkins) lately
sacrificed a son (Surgeon-Captain Hopkins) in the
British service in S’Africa, called on Premier
M'Lean and told him some unpleasant things, as
follows: „
Professor Rentoul said they came as loyal citizens, and
knew they were backed by a large body of opinion in the
great Church. This treatment of the men in question,
he said, was an act of intolerance, an act which breathed
through its very soul of despotism. .... They had come
to the Premier as representatives of Parliamentary liber-
ties. What was the trouble ? The men in had
committed no crime save that of holding their tongues
and going on with their work. Doubtless the men held
the opinion that it was not according to their conscience
to huzzah over the slaughter of men and the victories of
war. They apparently thought this present war was un-
necessary and unjust, and that the little Republics had a
right to theirown Parliamentary freedom. The Orange Free
State had absolute equality for Englishmen and Dutchmen.
... He held that it was the Rhodes companies that had
precipitated the war, backed by military influence and
newspapers. Why, these little Republics were only
defending their liberties. The cries about Boer savagery
and Boer ignorance and uncleanliness were simply the
lies of the military party to foster the military spirit.
Coming again more closely to the spirit of the request of
the deputation, the professor said their argument was
that eyery man in the community had the right to hold
his own opinions in the light of his conscience. Like
those men, he would have refused to be coerced. He had
steadily refused to have the National Anthem sung in his
church on a Sunday. Why ? Because in the first place
he thought it was not fit to be a hymn. One of its stanzas
was written in a theatre by a drunken actor. He had
sung it in the Assembly when he chose, not otherwise.
This threatened action by the Board of Works was con-
trary to the free spirit of the British Constitution, and
contrary to British justice.
The Rev. W. Hopkins said that the House of Bruns-
wick, amongst many other things, had been brought
to England as representatives of liberty. If the Queen
and Prince of Wales should forget the object of their
being they understood what should be done with them,
he trusted, as promptly as the 'Stuart family were dealt
with. For the liberties of England were far more valu-
able than the well-being of any individual. Passing on
rapidly, the rev. gentleman glanced at the wave of
patriotism now sweeping over the land, and held that the
whole province was suffering from a reign of terror. Those
idle fellows of the Metropolitan Board of Works carous-
ing, and full of wine, no doubt dictated to the three men
that they should sing, and they refused. “If those three
men are dismissed,” said Mr. Hopkins, dramatically, “ I
will never sing the National Anthem again to the end of
my days.” The Boers won their freedom at Majuba, and
it was not as Sir John Madden, wholly ignorant, or mis-
informed, or time-serving, had said, that they received
their territory on certain conditions. The Jameson raid,
on the authority of three great English Judges, Mr.
Hopkins characterised as a criminal act, and nothing had
since been done by the Boers to warrant this infamous
raid of a national character which was now going on.
• * • •
Premier M ‘Lean, being a weak man by nature,
refused to commit himself as to whether “British
fair play” and the inestimable British privilege of
free speeoh existed in Victoria or not. He was
strictly non-committal. He wouldn’t even say a
word for the sober man who refused to leave
the work he was paid for because a number
of unsober men wanted to waste the afternoon
in unseemly bellowing and riot. But the Jingo
Board of Works began to feel that it had
carried its grovel too far, and that even
Victoria wasn’t intolerant and prejudiced
and hoggish enough to go along with it.
The White Knight commando showed the
white feather. The Board wasn’t sufficiently honest
to say that, as its three employes hadn’t been
engaged on condition that they should sing any
national anthem, they had committed no offence
by not singing. It “ referred the report back ”as
a non-committal way out and then sang the
national anthem itself in a great discord to show
that its failure to -promptly sack the three men
who didn’t sing arose from no desire on its own
part to undermine the Throne and Person. It is
a poor kind of loyalty that has to sing the anthem
every few hours to show that it isn’t conspiring
against the Empire, and ranks with the case of
the boy who.has to whistle all the time he carries
the beer upstairs to prove that he isn’t drinking
it. And so the episode presumably ended. No-
body save the Age and the clerical deputation
came out of it very well. It showed up the
Officers’ and Servants’ Committee especially
as a gang of pitiable and crawlsome bigots and
intolerable persecutors, and it showed up the
majority of the Board as an aggregate coward
which, not having the courage to do either the
wrong thing or the right one, got out sideways by
not definitely doing either of them.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Last Dissentient.
Last week the Westralian Parliament passed the
Bill providing that a Referendum shall be taken
to decide whether W.A. is to join the Common-
wealth or not. So Bigjohn FORREST is back again
where he was. The new sample Bill which was
drafted by the W.A. Parliamentary Committee is
never heard of now ; its existence was short and
muddled, and its end was inglorious. John
Forrest’s mission Eastward to secure further
concessions is a forgotten subjeqj. Parker’s
mission to breathe soft amendments into the ear
of Joseph Chamberlain has been a waste of
money. As to the result of the Referendum, unless
the returns are hideously and amazingly faked
by somebody, there can hardly be any doubt.
Even the bitterest cursing that Brother Alice’s
paper can compass can hardly keep back
the rising tide. Within the last year it has
dawned on the Groper mind tl.at, sooner
or later, the alternative must lie between Federa-
tion and Separation. The Goldfields are solid in
their resolve to federate, either as a part
of Westralia or as a separate province, and the
Goldfields comprise so large a section of
the people that they are bound to break
something in the end unless they have their way.
The Groper mind may not like Federation over-
much, though even that is uncertain, for the
Groper mind hasn’t yet been consulted, but the
prospect of losing the Goldfields is too awful. So
the Forrest Government gives in, without
dignity, as a large body that is shaved along by a
force it can’t resist. So far as is known, the
W.A. Referendum is to be a reasonably fair
and honest vote, and not loaded any more
than things generally are in Groperland.
An attempt to prescribe a minimum vote
failed dismally, and various other anti-Fed.rd
dodges and devices rose on the horizon and then set
again hurriedly. It actually appears as if there
is an eleventh-hour chance that the Common-
wealth may, after all, begin as a union of all
Australia and Tasmania. A great change has
come over Australia within the last two years.
Even in the cities where the parochial element is
strongest it would often be possible to fire a
cannon down the main street at mid-day without
hitting a provincialist worthy of the name. It is
difficult to recall so much as the names of half the
Solomon Eagles who prophesied Woe two years
ago, so dead and forgotten are most of them. And
the Westralian Referendum will almost certainly
be another big clod on the coffins of this perished
or perishing race, which is going the way of the
other aboriginal races that were before it.
A Tired Fad.
One of Premier Reid’s brilliant ideas was the
starting of a miscellaneous body known as the
“ Metropolitan Charities Association,” the objects
of which are to prevent “overlapping ” in charit-
able relief and indiscriminate alms-giving, and to
secure “prompt investigation” in all appeals
from distressed persons. Should these appeals be
deemed deserving, the appellants are referred to
some body or society which may have funds to
assist them with. The M.C.A. gives them noth-
ing. It simply investigates, and it does not over-
lie—overlapping mainly consists in two charities
relieving the same individual. Beyond that it
does nothing and professes to do nothing. The
M.C.A. was started in 1898, the Govt, finding
the money. Some 75 charities were represented
at the first meeting. Then-Premier Reid was
elected president. The Mayor of Sydney and two
M’s.L.C. were vice-presidents, and some 30 ladies
and gentlemen appointed themselves a council,
and started out to organise charitable effort in
Sydney. A Charitable Organisation Society has
long existed in Sydney, with a secretary, also paid
to see that no one overlapped, but no notice was
taken of this body. A manager at £250 a year
was appointed to the new organisation, and. one
G. H Devonshire, a friend of the Reid Govern-
ment with a little spare time, got the billet. This
manager is undoubtedly a civil-servant to all in-
tents and purposes, but he is not treated,
or maltreated, as one (they manage these
things somehow), but ranks as a philanthropist.
To-day the number of the allied charities has
dwindled down to under 20, so the other 55 or 60
may overlap as much as they like, and dry-rot
threatens the existence of the M.C.A. The Lyne
crowd has no interest in the Reid bantling, and
the members of the council have tired of the con-
cern, or are too busy making socks for the war, or
have taken up some still later fad, and neither pay
nor show up. The last balance-sheet of the
M.C.A. gives these interesting items: Salaries,
£444; rent. £24; printing, £95; incidental
expenses, £7l. One incidental expense was
the providing of telephones all round. Not one
penny of this £630 went in relieving distress
in a tangible form. The Govt. Charities Dept,
and the Sydney Benevolent Society spend
thousands a year m charitable aid to the deserving
poor, and these channels of relief are not included
in the sphere of the MC. A., whose officers have
little else to do but ring each other up in case
somq one overlaps, and send each other printed
notices. Indeed, beyond providing a good billet
for the manager and affording another excuse for
various busybodies to rush into print, it is hard to
find a reason for prolonging the life of the Metro-
politan Charities Association.
Some items from the leading article in Alice
Forrest’s frantic anti • Federal paper, Perth
Morning Herald (26/5/’00)•
For all practical purposes it may be accepted that, as
far as Westralia is concerned, the referendum of the Com-
monwealth Bill is a foregone conclusion. We have felt it
our duty from time to time to present the case of those
who cannot shut their eyes to some of the economic dis-
advantages ... believing, as we do, that Federation
means the ruin of this province The Premier
. . . stated that there could be “ no doubt that for some
years to come Westralia must be a loser by Federation,”
and that reduced to hard figures that loss would be
£300,000 a-year. No attempt has been made to challenge
the general accuracy of the details. . . . Now we do not
pretend that the £300,000 which will be lost to the State
revenue will be lost to the country. Not at all. It will
STILL BE IN THE POCKETS OF THE PEOPLE.
Then where is the “ ruin ” ? According to Alice
Forrest’s own paper if is simply that the existing
taxes will yield £300,000 a-year less ; the £300,000
will still be in the country, and it is only necessary
to extract it by some new process. Alice’s paper
alleges solemnly that the country at large won’t
lose a penny. It is to be utterly ruined and bank-
rupted by not losing anything. Brother Alice’s
paper plainly requires medical inspection—about
the head.
4
The Tasmanian Government has started asking
some very pertinent questions re the alleged
Great Western Railway Co. The co. is to get an
immense land-grant in consideration of building
the G.\V. line, but years roll on and nothing
comes of it, save a demand for more concessions,
more land, cash assistance, State guarantee of
debentures, See. The Lewis Govt, weakly agreed
to grant more concessions if it was assured that
the co. was a solvent concern and able to build the
line, and in reply it got a reference from enlinent
bankers in London that the contractors who\were
to build the line were solvent and wealthy.
Which doubtless then are, but they cibn’t
propose to build the lino unless the co. pVys
them for the work, and the co. didn’t semi
along even the written assurance of a Domains,
dosser that it was worth a copper. Then the'
Lewis Govt, got angry and demanded to know ;
(1) Who are the co. and the names of its principal
shareholders ; (2) its office address ; (3) whore it
is registered ; and (4) the amount of its capital ?
So far there is no satisfactory answer. It is a
solemn fact that, after all the negotiations for
granting the G.W. Railway Co. 1,000,000 acres of
land, for guaranteeing its debentures, and for
lending it £200,000 and other things, no one can
find that there is any G.W. Railway Co. in
existence. There are certainly some loud and
clamorous beggars who are always besieging Tas-
mania’s Ministerial Departments for more pauper
aid for their alleged co. but the co. itself can’t be
found.
♦ ;
The N.S. W. Parliamentary law which deprives a
member of his seqt when he announces himself
insolvent, and allows him to regain his seat before
any official examination of his financial circum-
stances has been made is a most ill-conceived and
abortive measure. Mr. W. H. B. Piddington’s
candidature for re-election for Uralla-Waleha, for
instance, proceeded from the day he sent his re-
signation to the Speaker, and Saturday’s vote
sent him back to the House before the Insolvency-
Court or any other constituted tri-
bunal pronounced on his case. Aldermanio
law, generally the nadir of intelligence, shows to
better effect respecting the body it controls. An
alderman who goes bankrupt loses his seat at the
council-table, and is ineligible for re-election till
he obtains his certificate of discharge. N.S.W.
Parliamentary law should either go this far or not
go as far as it does. Under the Commonwealth
Constitution an undischarged insolvent will not
be allowed to hold a seat, and though the argu-
ments on the other side are numerous, they are
neither so numerous nor so deadly as those against
the practice at present followed m N.S.W.
“ Dodo ” to The Bulletin :
N.S.W. public servants are growling against the Public
Service Board, whose methods of dealing with the higher
class of officers are depriving them of all chance of pro-
motion. In 1890 the Board “ graded ” all the depart-
ments. It publicly announced that, to do away with any
charge of favoritism, it would grade the billets—not the
occupiers of them. Then the chief clerk’s position in the
red-tape office was graded at, say, £4OO. If Jones, who
filled it, was not worth £4OO a year, out he would have to
go. The Justice Department was graded with the rest,
and the chief clerk’s position in one of the sub-offices, an
important one, was fixed at £4OO. Some time afterwards
the officer who held the post died. As a temporary expe-
dient the second in command, who was in receipt of £260 a
year, was asked to do the work pending a permanent
arrangement. He discharged the duties of the office for
somj considerable time before this arrangement was
effected. He has now been appointed to the permanent
position of chief clerk at £299 a year—not even £3OO.
An officer at £3OO has certain advantages and the Board
even docked the £1 which would have entitled him to
them. The members of the Board get £lOOO a year each.
When Stipendiary Magistrate Delohery was given a
Commissionership the other day, he was not offered £899
a year. £lOl a year could have equally been saved this
way and the Govt, could probably have got an equally
good man. But a poor devil of a clerk at £250 is to con-
sider himself lucky to be promoted at all. It is false
economy all the same.
The alleged prospective appointment of Mr.
Varney Paiikes to a well-paid post in connection
with the Harbor resumptions work of the Lyne
Govt, (uncontradicted rumors of which appoint-
ment may be heard even in Ministerial circles—
though the report may be untrue all the same) re-
calls a bitter speech made by the late Parses
when the Stuart Govt, proposed to confer on an
ex-member of Assembly a country police-magis-
tracy. It was admitted on all hands that to
appoint a member from the floor of the House to a
paid Govt, billet was illegal, but that billet-
nunting gentleman had resigned his seat, as
Varney Parses has now done, with, in the
gentleman’s case, an understanding with Premier
Stuart that “very soon” he would be gazetted
to the coveted position. Varney’s father so
fiercely denounced the immorality of the pro-
ceeding and so terrorised the Govt, that the
appointment was delayed and finally abandoned,
the speculative gentleman thus losing both his
Parliamentary seat and the magisterial position.
The bitter cry of black man Billy King deserves
consideration. King is the Melbourne pugilist
who “got into trouble” some years ago, and was
committed to Pentridge prison for punishment.
Presumably the Law’s idea in sending this colored
man to prison was to cure him of unlawful
tendencies, for he had been a receiver of stolen
goods, or, maybe, a thief on his own account—the
exact nature of his original offence doesn’t matter
now. Prison life seems to have wrought a change
for the worse in Billy' King. The question as to
whether the warders were partly or wholly to
blame for his violent behavior, or whether the
violence arose from natural crookedness in the
prisoner, doesn’t matter to this paragraph. What
matters is the plain fact that Billy' King’s mis-
conduct at Pentridge added years of hard labor
and many terms of solitary confinement to his
original sentence, and when he finally was released,
by special order of the Ministry, he soon got into
troubleagain. Thistimefor burglary, more than one
burglary, likewise an attempt at criminal assault.
Sentence for these new offences was passed on
Billy King last week— lo years’ hard labor, with
eight weeks of “ solitary ” included. The prisoner
said, “ I can never do these sentences. I would
sooner be hanged.” And, judging him from his
past history, there is no doubt that the black man
spoke the truth. He vxmld sooner be dead than
alive in Pentridge or in a lunatic asylum. The
Law can have no reasonable hope of reforming
Billy, nor any Christian desire to tor-
ture the unhappy wretch. He is not fit to
be at large ; it is wicked to keep him under
restraint except as a person of unsound mind ; it
were a legal crime to hang him for being simply
a hopeless case. And yet the Law takes measures
to keep him from self-destruction. Can anyone
show cause or reason why Billy King should not
have a chance to commit suicide, like the der-
vishes who deliberately flung themselves upon
British bayonets ?
•
A lovely specimen of the Law's stupidity is in-
stanced by a recent case of brutality to a child at
Neerim (Victoria). The child, a girl of eight, had
been terribly thrashed witli a bundle of willow
switches by its adopted mother for some trifling
fault; so gross was the assault that tho woman
was fined £lO. Yet the Law, in its exceeding
wisdom, ordered that the little victim must be re-
turned to the care of its muscular guardian, pre-
sumably for further assault and battery. The baby
had originally been obtained through daily-paper
advertisement from a nurse, presumably for a few
pounds down and no questions asked. Truly, the
way of the undesirable infant is flinty. Mostly it
dies young—from indigestible fodder —or it is
left on a doorstep, or it gets into the water un-
noticed, ora “kind lady” adopts it for a fiver;
and tho last of these appears to tie the worst fate
of tho lot. Wanted a law that will prohibit the
adoption of babies for lump sums, and that will
summarily remove victims of this sort from their
unnatural guardians.
■ dfr 1 1 ~
Judge Draco Gaunt, of Victoria, exeroisos a nice
discernment in sentencing prisoners convicted
before him. Consecutive occupants of the Melb.
dock before his Honor one day last week were a
man and a woman. He acknowledged embezzle-
ment of £142 ; she denied, but was convicted of*
the larceny of a paltry £l. Both were first
offenders. His Honor sent her to gaol for nine
months, then let the male embezzler off with
three. This might have passed as a choice speci-
men of ineffable wisdom, had not the just Judge
spoilt it all by remarking that the embezzler “ had
previously held a position of trust and Ixirne a
good character. It was always extremely painful
to him to have to sentence a respectable member
of society previously of good repute,” &c., and so
forth. Which must have beon very consoling to
the thrice-as-heavily-punished woman who stole
less than a hundredth part of the money. Moral :
Swindle largely, if at all; and do bo Respectable.
The rift in the Queensland Labor lute is becoming
somewhat conspicuous, thanks partly to war dis-
sensions. Last week Wilkinson (ex-M.L. A. for
Ipswioh, and reputedly part-proprietor of Ipswich
Standard) announced his intention of severing
himself from the Lalior Executive on the ground
that any individual who did not agree with
certain prominent Labor organs in their denun-
ciation of the Transvaal iniquity was termed a
“rat,” a Jingo and a traitor. The complainant
is exceedingly touchy. Within the last few months
the terms traitor, miscreant, and a few more lively
epithets, have been hurled from every Govt, organ
in the country at the head of every Queenslander
who did not avow himself an anti-Boer both
vigorously and often. Furthermore, boycotting
has been frequently advised and often practised
towards those holding unpopular opinions; decent
citizens have been brutally assaulted; shop-
windows have been smashed in and private resi-
dences battered —all in the name of Law and
Loyalism. The coercing of civil servants in the
same noble cause might also be mentioned by way
of soothing the ire of Mr. Wilkinson. Conse-
quently, theex-M.L.A. is in the absurd position
of leaving a party that calls a few little names, to
please a party that calls a great many very big
names, and commits assault and battery into the
bargain. Peace to the departed.
By-eleotions, when the difference between the
candidates is the difference between tweedledum
and tweedledee, are responsible for queer argu-
ments. Brilliant B. R. Wise, who, however,
at present doesn’t seem to shine even amongst the
precious little stars with whom he is associated as
a colleague, got down to this sort of thing at
Liverpool last Friday evening:
If the electors would return Mr. Sydney Smith, they
would weaken the hands of Mr. Barton in pressing the
claims of Australia in the Imperial Parliament, because
such action would be regarded as an endorsement by the
great constituency of Canterbury of Mr. Sydney Smith’s
ostility to Federation and of the dislike of electors of
this province to the views which Mr. Barton was urging.
The Bulletin passes by the fact of the Federal
history of Mr. Wise’s present chief as being
unconnected with the same subject; but feels
constrained to pause to imagine the conster-
nation in London if it became known that SID.
Smith had beaten Tommy Taylor for Canterbury.
Now Chamberlain, after reproaching Barton
with having misled him as to the real trend of
Australian public opinion, will declare that the
present Federation scheme must be utterly
blotted out. Convinced of the effectiveness of
the foregoing as an argument, Mr. Wise pro-
ceeded
He asked the electors also to consider what would be
the feelings of those who are fighting for the Empire in
South Africa if a verdict was given by the electors of
Canterbury hostile to the Govt, which had done its best
to maintain the integrity of the British Empire.
When General Roberts hears of the return of
Pumpkin Smith and the defeat of Tommy Taylor
he will, of course, clearly see that he is beaten
after all: Kitchener will be ordered to run up
the white flag and make the best terms possible
with Kruger.
After many months of inquiry by N.S.W. Public
Works Committee, that tired body has decided
that the easiest thing is to leave Sydney’s
railway-station where it is. At least, it proposes
an extension of a few yards, which is practically
leaving it where it is, so the convenient central
statiop, and the proposed suburban system, and
the North Shore connection, all drop once more.
In every civilised place nqw the idea is to bring
the railway right into, or, if possible, right through
the city; Melbourne, Perth, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Dunedm, and Wellington have all done that. But
Sydney throws its passengers out in a suburb a
mile or so from the business-centre, and is content.
The decision to leave things as they are saves the
committee a lot of trouble, anyhow. Sydney city
railway extension has been haggled over for
35 years, until, by dint of much haggling,


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position as at January 1, 1900.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £58,373,185
Increase in Assets daring 1899 ... ... ... ... 4,546,248
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 12,711,975
Increase in Surplus during 1899 ... ... 793,123
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 219,670,088
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1899 ... ... 14,012,322
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.;
Hon. OHAS. K. MACKE LEAR,- M. 8., M.L.C.; F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
General Manager f or Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
m
The JENNINGS^ 1
CENTRIFUGAL PUMP
FOR
Tailings, Suction Dredging,
Alluvial Mining:,
Irrigating:, etc.
DEMONSTRATED
TO HOLD
FIRST PLACE
FOE
HICH EFFICIENCY
AM)
REMARKABLE ECONOMY.
Sole Manufacturers for New
South Wales:
The Clyde
Engineering Coy.
(Ltd.) GRANVILLE
the people have really persuaded themselves
that the construction of about a mile of line on
almost level ground is a work beset by such
stupendous difficulties as to be practically impos-
sible. Certainly the railway was carried through
Melbourne a very few years ago without anybody
turning a hair, but as the Sydneyite always says
“ that was a different thing.” “ That was adiffer-
ent thing ’ is the handy refuge of a shiftless and
purposeless mind. It is a restful kind of remark
that explains nothing but which sounds as if it
explained something. If Sydney carried its rail-
way right through the city, over the harbor, and
connected with the North Shoreline, it would save
an enormous amount of the space now required
for shunting, and that economy alone would be a
matter of no small importance. Its suburban
trains could then run from Parramatta to Chats-
wood or thereabouts, and do their shunting in the
country out of the way of the general traffic. It
is this system which saves Melbourne’s very
limited stations from being wholly blocked ; a
large number of the suburban trains run right
through the city and do all their shunting out in
quiet spots where there is no congestion of traffic.
Sydney will perhaps think of this some day when
it has time.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Pirates of Penzance.”
Rovau “ Woman and Wine."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Orjterion “ Briton and Boer.”
Centenary Hall Rev. Ohas. Clark’s Lectures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Professor’s Love Story.”
Her Majesty’s “ Elizabeth, Queen of England."
Theatre Royal “ On Active Service.”
Bijou Rickards’ Varietv Co.
Atiibnacum Hall War Biograph. (Last Nights.)
Her Majesty’s alleged vessel “ Pinafore ”
will sink at her moorings on Friday night. The
“ Pirates of Penzance,” which hasn’t been seen in
Sydney for seven long years, is booked for Satur-
day with a new prima donna, Miss Ada Winston-
Weir, in the part of “ Mabel,” and the present
signs are that these affable comic stealers upon the
sea will be well received. Whether the warlike
tableaux which wobbled along with “Pinafore”
will likewise wobble with its successor this
scribe knoweth not, but he trusts they won’t.
He was disappointed in these tableaux. He
expected to see gory war, battle, pandemonium
on the veldt, and the disembowelled kopje
falling into the spruit with its mother’s last letter
in its hand, and the donga sticking its bayonet
into the back of the kloof, while the kloof ran for
its life and hollered to
Heaven and its vrouw for
assistance. And none of
these things were there. In
the most gory picture of
the lot there wasn’t even a
horse visibly bruised. There
was no Blood worth men-
tioning—not so much as an
hospital-scene with a man
getting his leg amputated,
nor a Boer out scoffing at
the British dead. This
writer proposes that the
fine old “Pirates” should
travel on their own merits
without any kopje.
** * *
More kopje. At Syd-
ney Criterion Alfred Dam-
pier is playing “ Briton
and Boer,” which, being
carefully sampled, proves
to be Rider Haggard’s
“Jess,” that rather ancient
story of the Brito-Boer war
of 1881, brought up to date
“by Adam Pierre.” The
latter is evidently Dam-
pier’s little joke. At the
same time it might have
been expeeted that the man
who brought “Jess” up to
date would have been more
careful to conceal his iden-
tity. The new drama and
the old one hang together
about as well as “ Hamlet ”
would if he was modernised
and sent in pursuit of his .
uncle, with an explosion and
a detective. Somewhere in
the early part of the pro-
duction President Kruger is
found trying to spell a hard
word at his head-quarters
and not managing it.
Kruger’s head-quarters ap-
pear to be used chiefly for
this purpose, though he
also occasionally trusts in God there with
his belltopper on. Dampier himself, as a
British officer with a speech impediment in
his feet, answers little visible purpose barring
the fact that he is a receptacle for the false
intelligence that a certain lady has a wooden leg.
Dampier’s erroneous idea that the lady has a
wooden leg spreads over a great part of two acts,
His other visible use and purpose is to arrive at
the Boer head-quarters with a flag of truce, and
tell the commandant an interminable story about
a dog who was painted in spots in order to create
a baseless impression in the mind of another dog ;
and to make glowing remarks about the Australian
troops, which almost move the gallery to tears,
Dampier’s superfluous and irrelevant officer has
no relation to the story, and he is childish to the
verge of aggravation.
, * • •
„ .. . . -n „ i j. it. .1-
Britain and Boer appeals to the public
with several large explosions. Its British char-
acters are all about perfect, and its Boers haven’t
one redeeming feature among them. One of them
is frankly and openly named Mr. Wild Beast, and
the rest evidently belong to the same family but
have changed their names and try to disguise
themselves by walking on their hind legs. In fact
Mr. Wild Beast is about the best of the lot;
the others are probably crocodiles travelling under
an alias. This may be rather crude from an artistic
point of view, but it also appeals to the gods.
Rider Haggard’s English hero is made an
Australian Lancer by way of further appeal to the
sixpenny part of the house. Dampier’s history is
a trifle mixed, for he talks of the Zulus driving the
Boers out of Natal and Theophilus Shepstone
coming to their rescue ; the fact that it was
Britain that wrecked the Boer republic of Natal
and that the event happened many years before
Shepstone began to interfere with Boer affairs is
evidently not in Dampier’s philosophy. “B. and
B.” taking it all round, is rather an amusing
shriek in places, though it drags a good deal in its
early stages. Edmund Holloway’s Kruger,
though rather too brief in the figure, is about the
best character in it. His rage, and the foam of his
wild white whiskers round the rocks of his coun-
tenance, and his stove-pipe hat, and the deep
craftiness which leads him to suspect that Ins
subordinate, out of a possible desire to upset the
Republic, has deceived him as to the right way to
spell “ Excellency,” make him interesting. Alfred
Rolfe gives a rather good rendering of the hero
in places, but otherwise nobody in “Briton and
Boer ” strikes the intelligence of the audience
very heavily. Apart from the interesting cari-
cature of Kruger it depends mostly on its patriotic
sentiments and its explosions, and much of the
acting is pretty awful. As a lesson on the
evils of procrastination it is valuable. All the
good characters are captured at different times
and sentenced to death, but the Boers spend so
much time calling them bad names previous to
execution and kicking the British flag with their
cowhide boots that help always arrives before tho
actual shooting.
** m *
Baker has had his character satisfactorily
cleared at Sydney Royal all last week, the h&si-
tating person in-the red robe being convinced
every night that Baker didn’t kill the girl who
was found in the basket. Just as Baker is being
sentenced Miss Fitzmaurice Gill rushes in and
says she did it, whereupon Baker gets out of the
dock without waiting to hear what the Judge has
to say about it, and quits. The Judge, as it hap-
pens, doesn’t say anything, but still there is no
evidence against Miss Gill save her own confes-
sion, and she may say afterwards that she made it
under the influence of drink, and the law would
TE-RANGI-PAI (Mm. Howie).
do well to hang on to Baker till things are a little
more settled. “Women and Wine” is supposed
to end happily, but seeing that Baker has no
money and no prospects, and that he is restored
to the arms of a stone-broke blind father and a
sweetheart who lives by selling flowers, and he
isn’t even assured of a billet at cleaning up
the infected area, it isn’t so very happy an ending
after all. In gaol the hero would at least have
had his victuals regularly, and have been out of
the rain, but when his character is cleared his
prospects of a regular square meal appear limited,
These reflections cast doubts upon the allegedly
satisfactory conclusion of Bland Holt’s vigorous
drama. It is undoubtedly a grand thing to have
an unblemished character, still there are times
when an umbrella and 2s. 6d. in cash are a lot
better. In this world it doesn’t rain alike on the
just and the unjust. If the unjust have failed
they are dry in gaol, and if they have succeeded
they have the price of a cab about them.
Rev. Charles Clark, probably the best
lecturer known to Australia, reached Sydney by
the Alameda after a four months’ tour in Maon-
land, bringing with him an Anglo-Maori contralto,
Te-Rangi-Pai (Mrs. John Howie). The partially-
brown lady is the wifeof an officerin the Government
service at Christchurch (M.L.). She is a very tall
contralto of high rank and ancient Maori lineage,
her ancestors on the mother’s side having worn the
honorable and distinguished mat of martial great-
ness ever since the beginning of Maori history.
Mr. Clark and his colleague were booked to com-
mence a short lecturing and concert season at
Sydney Centenary Hall on Tuesday night—which
was, unfortunately, too late a date to allow of
criticism in this issue.
** m *
The only new feature at Sydney Tivoli is the
Century Animatographe, said to be a 1900 patent.
Apparently the Animatographe is a close brother
to the Cinematographe, but the one Rickards has
on tap just now does not seem to flicker so much
as the Cinematographes this writer has seen. On
the other hand, details do not appear so distinct,
and sometimes the buildings and stationary parts
of the pictures look as if suffering from Mafeking-
day, constantly shifting their centres of gravity.
Two and a bit of the pictures are decidedly good,
anyhow.
»* * *
Last Sunday night the Professional
Musicians’ Benefit Association said bon voyage to
M. Auguste Wiegand, late city organist of Sydney
but recently discharged from his artistic office by
butcher Alderman Penny, and some other pound-
foolish ignoramuses. The President of the society,
Rivers Allpress, .made various kindly and ap-
preciative remarks anont M. Wiegand’s great
musical merit, and hailed him as an artist of the
veritable firing-line; and some IGO voices of
stentor brand said “Amen” to the Delphic chorus
“For he’s a jolly good fellow.” In the evening’s
programme were an instrumental quintet by
Hummel, played supremely by Truman, Robins,
Blomgren, Summerbayes and Phillips ; Kuhlan’s
flute trio, rendered by Randall, Amadio and
SoheinpHug; a quartet by Fitzgerald, Balfour,
England, and Ambrose—“ The Village Black-
smith”; and contributions by F.R. Woodhouseand
veteran Tom llainford. Music worthy the name
is rarely heard in Sydney outside the classic quar-
ters of the 1 professional Musicians’ Benefit Associa-
tion—the P.M.B.A.
** * »
First week of “ Magda ” at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne, has established a lucrative local in-
terest in Nance O’Neil. Business was always
brisk, except at the matinee, and last Saturday
again the house was crowded, so the management
may reckon that Nance’s popularity will hold good
for the season, if the vast, assertive vision be re-
stricted to characters wherein her physical strength
and personality will answer tho purpose of high
dramatic art. Nance is about 70 inches of sub-
ject for lively controversy, anyhow. Also, she is
admired in moderation by many people who don’t
controverse about her at all. They accept her as
a fine, tall sister, with a fine, far-reaching voice, a
raking stride, an enviable biceps, and an air of
natural assurance, and when she stretches her
arms and cries, “I am myself alone,” or words to
the same effect, they see no cause to doubt that
she it —Nance O’Neil. The Bulletin is one of
those people.
* * * *
Controversy re the loud lady’s art rages
between such experts as judge it from an actor’s
(rather than a showman’s) point of view, and such
others as are intoxicated by the exuberance of
Miss O’Neil’s declamation and arm-play. To her
worshippers she appears a great artist, because
she takes a commanding part in a commanding
style. The effect of her wondrous parlor pirouette
at the conclusion of a needlessly violent harangue
is too much for them. Take Melb. Age notice as
a fair sample of this enthusiasm :
Thepprt of Magda calls for the display of a very wide
range of emotions—tenderness and contempt, revolt and
playfulness, the despairing and the melting mood, im-
perious scorn .of the world at her feet, ana passionate
devotion to the child of her shame. The unstudied ease
with which Miss O’Neil passed from one mood to another,
pourtraying each with admirable force, yet without an
unnatural gesture or a strained intonation, held her
audience spellbound.
All this marmalade for an actress who is only
natural in one mood, the hard, masterful mood of
a woman who has broken loose from “moral con-
trol ” and fought herself into a position where
Mrs. Grundy is of no consequence. Nance O’Neil
is not natural when she contracts her throat-
muscles and says “my child ! ” or “my beautiful
darling ! ” She never presents a tender or a
“melting” Magda. She is not convincing, or
half-convincing, when she assures her sister “It
will all come right,” in a church tea-party tone of
voice. She has great opportunity to pourtray
fear, even terror, in the last act, but she makes
little pretence of feeling agitated. Her sarcasms
are heavily emphasised, and are therefore untrue
to the character of a contemptuous prima-donna
mixing for the moment with her social inferiors.
Nance O’Neil has none of a great actress’s
resources of bye-play, facial expression, delicate
voice-inflections, or power to seem grief-stricken.
In the closing scene she is noticeably feeble. With
her back turned to the audience she says some-
thing which they mostly can’t catch the meaning
of, whereas the full significance of that remark
should be expressed by the actress’s face, as well
as her voice. Then George Reid threatens to
shoot her, but is overtaken by heart disease or
apoplexy. Nance, having uttered a cry of mild
alarm, crouches against the sofa until it is time for
her to go and hide her ever-averted countenance
behind George Reid’s ankle, after which the
curtain comes down. The leading lady has lost
her parent under tragic circumstances, but the eye
of the public gets right off her at the finish. In
the presence of the corpse Nance seems a mere
nobody. Certainly not a great actress.
• * * *
Neither is “ Magda ” a great play. The
plot has only a surface of truth. The patronising
daughter who drops into her hateful old home,
after a lapse of 12 years, with the idea of going
back to her hotel presently, would not stay to be
jawed at by a tame parson and a tyrannical
father. If she knows herself to be what she is,
why should she even think of knuckling down to
the fools who wish to make her what she never
could be ? It is a showy plot, but it will not wash.
On Saturday the tempestuous Nance O’N. appears
as Queen Elizabeth, and the rush to see her boss
the show in royal purple will be considerable.
*
Charles Arnold and co., at the Princess's,
are more happy and comfortable in “ The Pro-
fessor’s Love Story ” than when they came fresh
into it from the farcical turmoils of “Jones.”
They produce the humor of J. M. Barrie’s comedy
with less effort; they tread lightly where at first
they trampled things underfoot, Arnold, as the
absent-minded beggar, gets lost sometimes in the
study of his new girl-secretary, and pretty soon
he will forget that he was ever anybody else
than a gray-haired prof, of 40, with a sudden
disinclination for literary work. It is a bright
little love story. The Scotch accent of Mias Ada
Lee. Frank Denton and F. B. Sharp would bear
a lot more cultivation, and the family doctor
(E. W. Thomas) may as well go in for a change of
professional air, but take them altogether the co.
is satisfactory. Miss Bensusan’s young widow
is less like a middle-aged imitation of youthfulness
than she was on the first night. Miss Hope
Mayne is charming in a small part, and George
Willoughby moralises on the tricks of millinery
with all the foolishne s of a baronet who goes
shopping to kill time.
#■ * * *
The steam-hamraer-drammer has passed
away like a beautiful nightmare from the patrons
of Melbourne Royal, and a droll horror, entitled
“On Active Service,” is raging in its stead. There
are four or five aots, together witli the same num-
ber of advertisement curtains, in this terrible pan-
tomime, also many changes of scenery, and a
French spy in top-boots. Moreover, the lady who
formerly wore kilts and sang a foggy psalm to the
gallant Gordons, now comes along as a youthful
seaman and gives tho Nayvoe, the British Nayvee,
a well-deserved turn. Subsequently, three acro-
bats cross a cataract on the Nile by means of a
trapeze provided by the management, and thus
the Dervishes under Augustus Glover are hurled
into the same eternity where a naval captain’s
daughter wont after Glover had killed her
with a bottle of brandy and a snap-shot
photo. For a long time Robert Inman
says “God help me!” in the belief that
he gave the brandy to the captain’s daughter
whilst walking in his s'eep, but the evidence of
Glover’s snap-shot issqu. shad by a small boy, who
owes his escape to Flossie, the barmaid, wherefore
Inman gets orders not to blow himself up with
gunpowder before it is too late. Miss Eugenie
Duggan, it appears, divorced Inman with a view
to marrying Willard, the woman-hater, but Wil-
lard, being a sergeant of marines, shoots British
seamen in mistake for other people, and loaves
his wife to get saved from destitution by Flossie
(Dora Mostyn). Flossie’s broad humanity, as
compared with the bard, unfeeling conduct of an
elderly Hallelujah lassie, is an enormous success.
Bert Bailey likewise scores heavily through the
loss of his trousers, and Stirling White helps to
keep the harlequinade in motion.
** * *
Donald Macdonald, late of Ladysmith,
gave two lectures at Melbourne Town Hall last
week, and is now fairly started on a prosperous
career. All things considered the raw amateur’s
first attempt to entertain a couple of thousand
people was a wonderful success. What he said,
they heard, all of them, nor could they have heard
it better said by the most tricky lecturer on earth.
Fluent, unaffected, manly and thorough, Donald
Macdonald has the dramatic instinct, the artistic
enthusiasm which is rarely found among hardened
professional mummers. Meanwhile he needs some
new photographs on the sheet, or if he had no
photographs at all the audience would be spared
sundry pangs.
#* * #
Nothing new has happened at the Bijou
of late. Amann and Charles Seel depart this
week instead of last week, and when they are gone
the Flying Jordans are to fill the air. At the
Athenaeum there will be no more Biograph after
Friday, owing to previous arrangements by which
the boomsome Auto., Bio., or whatever they call
it, is bound to appear at a long succession of else-
wheres. And Scherek’s Orchestra has to miss a
Saturday—i|ext Saturday—at the Town Hall, bub
will resume operations on the 23rd.
“Easier to climb the mountain of society,
than attempt to cut it down.” — Bulwer.
Talking of a dinner, Sydney D.T.’s London
gossiper, after remarking that the Australian
delegates must loathe turtle-soup, salmon, quails,
plovers’ eggs, and giant asparagus, on which they
have been publicly banqueting at least once a day,
goes on to say that “ the Prince of Wales will not
stand prolonged gargantuan feasts. On this occa-
sion he dined off some simple grill (a chop or
steak) brought in with the entrees, and drank
nothing but a glass or two of very dry wine.”


m
/
25
Ml '
muni
HMH
3MA
?H£
ZETZ Sprwc\
"Cepe ycbaeec#
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAYY AND WAR, OFFICE.
gmr
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
“ THE FINEST
SMOKING ID ljj
IN THE WORLD. 5 '
n_ n _
Cone Bros. & Co.. Ltd., Liverpool. Agents ; I. Butty & Co., Sydney.
The Austral Otis Engineering Co., South Mel-
bourne, Ims been awarded the contract for the supply of
some 3000 tons cast-iron water-pipes for the Geelong
Water Supply (cast-iron pipes having been given the
preference by the engineers of the Department on account
of their durability as against the lower-priced wrought-
iron ones). The pipes vary in sine from (tin. to liin. dia-
meter, and the whole quantity is to be delivered by
September next.*
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assuy chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. Bd. post free.
* * * •
Insurance Press, July Ist, 1891): “The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society ha-; bail another
season of prosperity and has increased its business and
bettered its financial position to a considerable extent.”*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlercagh-strcet, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * » •
Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, Mining Machinery
Merchants, 500 Little Oollins-street, Melbourne, report
that the Luhrig system of concentration is gradually es-
tablishing itself in the principal mills of Australia. The
latest Luhrig vanner has a large capacity, and owing to
important improvements the life of the belt, <fec., is greatly
increased. Vanners and spare parts are stocked in Melb.
and prompt delivery is thus assured. A small testing
plant is available near Melbourne. Upon receipt of
necessary data, estimates for complete plants, including
batteries, rolls, trommels, jigs, classifiers, vanners, &c.,
will be proceeded with by competent engineers.*
* « • *
Ward off influenza by taking
Bow’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
• * * »
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor liorsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &e.*
» • • »
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfonnder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and ail sortsof iron-work.*
• * * *
Gilfillan and McCreery have removed to more
commodious offices in the Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne. They have enlarged their mining laboratory
and ore-testing works and are prepared to test parcels of
ore to ascertain the most successful and economical
method of treatment.*
a » • •
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buciiu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
a • * a
Paste this in your hat and wait : The Federal
Centrifugal Sluicing Co., N.S.W., estimates that there is
10 years’ work for the co. to do before it exhausts 200
acres of wash out of the 400 acres held by the co. ; that it
will cost £158,200 to do this work, and that the profits
will amount to £422,600.
BLEACHING P3WDER, 36 387.
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
30INVAO
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 8170
fsd
fsd
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NZ. ;
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, A uckland.
A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOhLNER,
and particulars apply 80-38 Druitt-st., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Something hard and well-deserved struck the
municipalities of Five Dock and Drummoyne (Sydney) the
other day, and held up to much-needed scorn the ab-
surdity of dividing 420,000 people into 42 municipalities
with 42 mayors and town-halls and all the other garish-
ness and foolerv. Years ago the pocket-handkerchief
municipality of Five Dock floated a loan—Five Dock then
included Drummoyne—and the security was the rates
and credit of the whole area. Then the municipality
divided into two—one-half being called Drummoyne,
while the balance continued business under the name of
Five Dock. The debt was divided, and Five Dock—which
was mostly rocks and fresh air—promptly failed to pay
interest on its share, whereupon the creditors naturally
demanded that Drummoyne should be liable for the
interest on Five Dock’s share of the original loan as well
as on its own share. Their case was: “We lent the money
to the whole district (Drummoyne and Five Dock) on the
security of the whole district. The subdivision of the
district and of the debt has nothing to do with us. We
never agreed to part with any of our security. Each part
of the subdivided district remains equally responsible for
the whole debt.” It was held to be good law, and a
n c iver has been put in on Five Dock to collect as much
of its debt as he can get there, and on Drummoyne to
collect its own liability and as much of Five Dock’s
liability as Five Dock can’t pay itself. And it serves both
of them right. The chopping-up municipal system de-
serves to end that way. Obviously the only fair thing
now is to combine the two places again.
* * * •
Revenue returns for May, 1900 :
. Increase as com-
Revenue for p are d with
May, 1900. 1899 .
Westralia £231,258 £26,749
Queensland .. .. 346,505 10,027
Tasmania.. ». .. 83,402 6,387
Decrease as com-
pared with
May, 1899.
Victoria .. .. .. 695,319 £7,746
New South Wales .. 990,410 24,204
The results for so much of the financial year as has ex-
pired, or us much of it as is covered by the published
accounts, are :
Increase as com-
pared with cor-
Bevenue. responding
period of last
year.
N.S.W. (11 months) ..£9,247,163 £445,548
Queensland ( ~ ).. 4,204,497 398,060
Westralia ( ~ ).. 2,564,446 362,192
S. A. (9 months).. 1,995,720 88,207
Tasmania ( 5 months) .. 429,071 43,603
Victoria (11 months) .. 6,627,864 3,704
Reducing these to a common basis the amount of increase
p inhabitant per annum, according to Coghlan’s latest
estimates of population, is :
Increase of revenue per
inhabitant per annum as
compared with previous
financial year.
Westralia £2 6 2
Queensland 18 0
Tasmania .. .. .. >. 11 6
New South Wales 7 2
South Australia 0 4,
Victoria i
* * • •
Sydney Telegraph, in its leading article of
12/6/’OO, decides to support the proposed extension of the
A.M.P.’s business to London, but it does so very weakly
and ineffectively. The great objection to the proposed
change is that the English death-rate is far higher than
the Australasian one ; that by introducing a large English
business the average death-rate of the society must be
raised; that more than half the huge bonuses arise through
the low death-rate in Australasia, and therefore a system
which increases the average death-rate is a deliberate
throwing away of a fine source of profit. The Telegraph
says : “ It is sometimes suggested that, as there are more
military ‘ lives,’ and less healthy ones generally there, the
risks are greater. But there is nothing in that objection,
unless it is to be assumed that all the experience of the
society is to be ignored, that the methods on which such
an enormous business has been soundly built are to be
neglected, and that policies are to be issued haphazard.”
But this is futile logic. The .A.M.P. can’t alter the British
climate. It can’t make people in England live longer than
they do now. It is going to look for the best lives just
as it does in Australasia—but the trouble is that 1000 of
the best and healthiest people you can find in England
don’t live so long, on an average, as a similar 1000 in Aus-
tralasia. And the A.M.P., if it is going to do business in
England, must accept that fact. Such British
offices as the Law Life, the Provident, Scottish Provident,
Scottish Widows Fund, &c., are quite as careful in their
selection of risks as the A.M.P. can be—but their rate of
mortality is much higher than the A.M.P.’s all the same.
The theory that the A.M.P. is going to do what the best
British offices can’t do —that it is going to make the
Britisher live longer than he naturally does —for that is
practically what it amounts to—is amusing anyhow.
The Telegraph, by the way, implies in its
leading article that the A.M.P. is going to counteract
the higher British death-rate by its careful medical selec-
tion of lives to be assured. And in its financial column of
same date it quotes Mr. Teece, the A.M.P.’s actuary, to
this effect: “It is well known that the powerful influence
which the medical selection exercises on assured lives
disappears after about five years, after which such Hoes
are little, if any, better than those of the general popula-
tion from which they have been taken.” So after five
years it is just the same as if the A.M.P. had insured
English and Australian lives promiscuously—and the
disastrous fact that the general English death-rate is
nearly 50 per cent, higher than the Australian can’t be
dodged by careful selection.
• • * •
The Intercolonial Land and Building Co.
(Sydney) closed its half-year to 30th April, 1900, with a
slightly diminished profit of £2086, and pays a dividend
at 7 per cent, per annum. Some recent res ulfcs :
list October. Profit. Dividend.
1892 (year) .. £1,006 .. Nd*
1893 ( „ ) •• 831 ...
1894 (•> > ** Ht? "
IKQ*S i ) •• 2.651 •• n
ISQ6 < ) : 6 085 .. 10 per cent. =*£3,199
jag? > ” I! 6,123 .. 10 „ = 3,295
1898 ( ) - 4 ’ 913 •• f » I 2 3®5
1899 (~ ) •• 4 > 235 •• 7 *» “
80th April. _ ,
1900 (6 months) .. 2,086 .. 7 at 1,166
£28,755 £12,771
There is still a good margin over and above the 7 per cent,
dividend, though there is a great falling-off since the
spurt of 1896. The £28,755 profit made during the 8J
years covered by the above figures has been applied thus .
Dividends .. •• •• •• •• d
Depredation written off ... .. - 4 - 399
Added to reserve (making it £11,200) .. 6,-00
Dividend Equalisation account established.. 2,,50
Added to profit balance .. .... • • 2,534
£28,755
The old-standing overdraft has been wiped off, and the
co. has a credit balance. The shareholders funds are
£53,406 (capital £33,326, and various reserves £20.080)
and the entire outside liability to depositors and others
is only £12,178, so the Intercolonial, so far as can be
gathered from the accounts, is in a very sound position.
At the same time it publishes a very reticent balance-
sheet. For instance, “Freehold properties and Invest-
ments, 121,847,” can hardly be called information. Writer
remembers when Confederate paper was still called In-
vestments.”
• » * *
The London Bank of Australia presents its
balance-sheet for 1899, which compares favorably with
some previous returns thus
31st December, 1891 (year) Profit .. £10M37
1892 („ ) „ .. 71,643
„ 1893 (5 months) „ .. 5,987
(The other 7 months’ profits were written off at
the 1893 reconstruction)
30th June, 1894 (6 months) Profit .. £7,026
31st December, 1894 ( „ ) » •• 8 ,216
80th June, 1895 (»»)•» ** 7 ’ 98 y
81st December, 1895 ( ~ ) ~ «• 6,673
30th June, 1896 ( „ ) Loss «. 231
81st December, 1896 (~).» •» 4 > 393
1897 (year) ~ .. 8.124
1898 ( „ ) Profit .. 10,885
„ 1899 („ ) „ •• 15,05.6
The profits have not got up to the level of 1894, still they
show a very great improvement on the figures of more
recent years, being equal to £1 12s. lid. percent, per
annum on capital (there is no reserve-fund). Even this,
however, is a very poor return, looking merely at the
surface of things. But it must be remembered that the
London Bank still pays 4£ per cent, on its reconstructed
deposits. If it paid only 3 percent., as do the A.J.S.,
Colonial, and Commercial of Australia, the profits would
be about £53,600, and the return would be nearly 6 per
cent, on capital—-therefore, the London Bank ranks much
higher among the reconstructs in point of solidity than
appears on its mere profit figures. A dividend of 6}
per cent, on the preference capital absorbs £9456, arid the
other £5600, added to previous balance, leaves nominally
£10,172 at credit of profit and loss. But in reality there
is a shortage of £13,468 instead of a credit balance. By
some weird misfortune the reconstruction scheme makes
the 5£ per cent, dividend to preference shareholders
a fixed charge; the bank, being in trouble,
obtained relief by transposing £171,930 of its deposits,
on which it was bound to pay per cent., into preference
shares on which it was bound to pay 5£ per cent.—which
was the most remarkable kind of relief on record. The
present payment only covers the preference div. up to
30th June, ’97, so 2£ years div. (£23,640) is still due. This
item is not mentioned among the liabilities, but it turns
the credit balance of £10,172 into a shortage of £13,468
all the same. A year ago, however, the shortage was
£19,068, so things are improving considerably.
mm**
The London Bank shows a slight expansion of
business during the year, but the best feature is that the
burdensome 4J per cent, reconstructed deposits have been
reduced in the last 12 months from £3,189,098 to £2,232,675.
This is a great load lifted off the institution. The size of
the load that still remains can be gauged by the fact that
if these deposits carried only 3.4 per cent., which is about
the current rate, the year’s profits would be £22,326 more
than they now are. There should be considerably better
times ahead for the London Bank when this old burden is
shifted.
« * * •
An interesting financial item is the prospectus
of the Aerial Navigation Co. of Australasia (office in
Hobart, Tasmania). Its object is to buy, from two
people named Litchfield, the Australasian rights of a
patent air-ship. The co. is to be in 25,000 shares, of £1
each. The patentees are to get 10,500 shares fully paid-
up, and the public is invited to take the other 14,500
shares—the patentees to get £2OOO out of the proceeds, in
addition to their 10,500 shares. As the new air-ship hasn’t
yet been seen gaily navigating the atmosphere above Mel-
bourne and Sydney, the response from these two leading
haunts of capital is likely to be limited. The public
doesn’t care, as a rule, to take air-ships on spec. If the
promoters had only had the foresight to build one visible
air-ship, and skim in it over the roofs of our biggest
cities, they would have got £50,000 cash and a truck-load
of paid-up shares for the asking. But the prospectus
doesn’t even give the name of any reputable individual
who says he has seen the vessel in the air, and the
average capitalist doesn’t care to buy an air-ship on the
ground. ....
That sad and weary concern, Montgomerie’s
Brewing Co. (Melb.), went bodily to the hammer recently,
all its assets going for £26,500. It has made nothing of
late save beer and losses—principally losses. The beer
was hardly more than a formality. In a recent balance-
sheet it solemnly put down its visible assets at £184,770,
and its goodwill at £25,000. These were the old boom-
day values—the ones on which the speculation started its
wild career in the frenzied year of a.d. 1888. It had a
paid-up capital of £175,006, and latterly it brewed less
than £lO,OOO worth of beer annually ! It would have
actually taken it 17 years to brew its own capital in beer.
And now the capital is all gone, and the co. has been sold
bodily for not much more than one-third of its bank
overdraft. “ Ichabod ” isn’t large enough to express the
situation. « «
Tasmanian Permanent Executors and Trustees
Association shows a material improvement in its own
small way for the half-year to 31st March, 1900
D -. Dividend and dividend-
Profit. tax on £lO,OOO capital.
March, 1894 .. £144 .. 6 per cent. = £3ll
September, 1894 .. 265 ..6 ~
March, 1895 ..356 ..6 „ = 300
September, 1895 297 6 » - 399
March, 1896 .. 494 .. 6 „ = 300
September, 1896 .. 117 .. 5 ~ = 262
March, 1897 .. 237 .. 5 » = 26-
September, 1897 ..264 ..5 „ ■= 262
March, 1898 ..388 ..5 „ =262
September, 1898 .. 405 .. 5 „ = 262
March, 1899 ..316 ..5 „ = 262
September, 1899 .. 376 .. 5 „
March, 1900 .. 454 .. 5 ~ = 262
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors and Trustees had a
profit-balance of £B4O brought forward, and the surplus
of £192 after paving the 5 per cent, dividend raises this
to £1032. Out of this, £5OO is transferred as the first
humble beginnings of a reserve-fund, and £532 carried
forward. The co. has been 13 years in existence, and the
idea of having a reserve-fund has just occurred to it for
the first time. m
B.H. B o k 10 is having more trouble than usual
with its machinery—partly through getting into harder
ore, partly through the absence of the general manager,
who designed the plant and had it built according to his
own ideas. The mine is now being furnished with a zinc-
concentrating plant on the Odling principle—so far only
of experimental size, though, with a 10-ton-a-day
capacity.
• * » * *
Sulphide Corporation's Central mine looks par-
ticularly well; as at Block 14, recent sinking shows the
ore at the lowest level better than at the higher ones,
which is not usually the case. The co. isn’t going to sell
any more of its “tailings” to the zinc dealers; it finds
that it can do better by re-treating, chiefly'for the silver
and lead contained, with Wilfley tables.
* * * •
The Blayney mine is to be a big producer in the
near future. Already it turns out almost 100 tons of
copper monthly; and when the second 120-ton furnace
already contracted for is in position, which will be very
shortly, the Blayney output will, it is announced, approxi-
mate 200 tons of 97 per cent, copper monthly.
• * • *
The first wash-up of Kiandra (N.S.W.) Co.’s
dredge gave 115 oz.—at the rate of soz. gold per 1000 tons
of wash— which, if maintained, would mean (say) 60oz.
per week, and show a very handsome profit. About half
the gold is very coarse and nuggety. The first clean-up
of Araluen Proprietary Dredging Co., it is stated, showed
a clear profit of £250 over working expenses for practi-
cally three weeks’ operations. •
* * • *
To a correspondent, “ Walgett ” : A mine with
apparently splendid possibilities, but its owners have
messed it up. It is now let op tribute. To buy shares
cheap—at under a shilling, say—would be a fair gamble.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold output for May : 120,3120 z. —
nearly 7000 oz. above April, but a sad reduction on some
other months. In Oct. last year it was over 205,0000 z.
May’s return is over 20,0000 z. less than that of Jan. this
year, and it is safe to say some months will elapse before
any increase takes place. The current month will pro-
bably show another reduction.
* * * *
In the Westralian market there has been another
awful slump, and, as usual, when English and Australian
papers were predicting that the bottom had at last been
reached. Curious, too, that the only mines that have re-
mained almost stationary are the very best and worst of
the big mines—the Great Boulder and Associated —one by
reason of its lasting richness, the other because of the
amount of gambling in its stock. There is little or no
gambling with Great Boulders ; tile number of its shares
goes a long way to prevent that. When the number was
changed from 175,000 to 1,750,000 a serious mistake was
made. To buy or sell Boulders now means (id. a share
commission, the same as its <livs., so every time the shares
are turned over brokers receive in commission the modest
amount of £87,500. Very few fluctuations take
place in the shares, and these are generally re-
presented by commission, consequently the dealings
in them are by persons who are buying to keep or selling
for good, and there is not one in twenty who does that.
Had the shares remained as they were-and there was no
sensible reason for the change—they would now be in the
region of £l5, and the commission on a £l5 share being
much less than on ten 30s. shares the dealings would be
proportionately greater. The Associated held its own
between 565. and 605., not that the mine is necessarily
worth it, but because while one army of " bears ” never
leaves them alone, another is content to take its profits.
The tendency, however, is downwards, i.e., they seldom
catch up to where they leave off ; and every slump brings
them a little lower than they were before. Golden Horse-
shoes fell in the ruck from £l4 to £9. Only a drop of a
million and a half!! Why, nobody knows.
• * *% * *
The dismissal of Manager llewitson, of the
Ivanhoe, is the latest outrage perpetrated by the London
directors—the same dreadful persons who six weeks ago
recorded their appreciation of his ability and services,
and a little while before substantially increased his salary.
They dismissed him by cable, and caused oonstcruation
in the camp. Almost to a man the managers of the fields
were furious, and insinuated .anything but an honorable
motive on the part of the Board. Ivanhoe shares fell
from over £l2 to under £9 in a week, and of course the
London directors could not stand that. Equal falls took
place in othermines, but itseemsto have suited thedirectors
to instantly fire Hewitson. The moment this was known
in London the Board of the Associated unanimously agreed
to offer him the management of that mine, which he has
now accepted. He has always been regarded as one of the
ablest men in the field, is known to have no inclination
whatever for dealing in stocks of any kind, but has been
content to manage the Ivanhoe for a substantial salary.
It seems that he lacked the qualification of anticipating
the market slump and cabling his directors accordingly,
and has to suffer for this want of Stock Exchange'instmct.
He retires with the sympathy of the whole field, and has
writer’s congratulation in parting company with such a
crowd.
• » • •
The mining classes at Sydney Technical College
afford a choice example of official muddling. These
classes are supposed tb do the work of an institution like
Bendigo School of Mines ; and two years ago they were
“reorganised.” A demonstrator in mining, metallurgy,
and assaying was advertised for. One candidate applied,
and no appointment was made. A fresh advertisement
brought two candidates, but no appointment was made.
In July, 1898, an acting demonstrator was appointed
without examination, though the previous candidates
had been asked to pass an examination ; and in 1899
this acting-demonstrator took to himself an assistant
acting-dempnstrator (one of the previous unsuccessful
candidates), paying the salary himself. That was 1899.
But for 1990 not even an “acting” demonstrator was
appointed. The students paid their fees ; and the younger
students were taught by the Older students ! The older
students taught themselves 1 ! Last month the assaying
furnaces were closed down until a demonstrator should
be appointed. Last week another “ acting ” demon-
strator was appointed ; and a date of examination
appointed for candidates for the place of demonstra-
tor. And when the demonstrator is appointed, if
one be appointed, he has practically no plant to demon-
strate with- no battery, no concentrators, no cyamdep
or chlorinators. Coming after the closing-down of tne
ineffectual Clyde works (to manage which a gentleman
was specially imported from England, a plant provided,
and large expense incurred—all for no purpose) the
swindle gives an excellent view of the way in which
NSW. Mines Department is managed.
• » • *
Cosmopolitan (W.A.) mine has proved itself.
On the Niagara Camp, running 25 stamps on loz. ore and
making more than half profit, will soon have 50 stamps at
work. This good thing, like most others in Westralia,
has gone to Loudon, and the original owners realise that
they sold out too cheap.
• • • •
Q gold-returns for May this year were excep-
tionally good. Total output, 101,2330 z., an increase of
13 51 loz. on the return for May 1899. C. Towers : quartz
crushed, 19,382 tons ; return 19,C600z. ; tailings, 58,507
tons treated for 30,3710 z. (Output for May ’99, 41,1970 z.)
Croydon crushed 2751 tons for 3GS2oz. ; tadings, 4516 tons
for 3000 oz. Gympie: Quartz, 11,794 tonsf or 8820 oz. ;
tailings 277 tons for 2420 z. (May ’99 gave total of 67770 z.)
Mt Morgan returns: quartz, 22,471 tons crushed for
*>4 4890 z. ; tailings, &c., 1411 tons for 8740 z. (Output for
May last year 23,2000 z.) Clermont is fast on the down
grade. Alluvial only gave 510 oz. against 1114 oz. for May
"99. Eidsvold crushed 40 tons for 114 oz. and treated 800
tons of tailings, concentrates, &c., for 5250 z. Calls and
divs. : C. Towers—calls £6867, divs. £22,150 ; Gympie—
calls £7302, divs. £7817 ; Eidsvold —calls £5OO, divs nil;
Mt. Morgan—calls nil, divs. £29,167.
* * + •
Q. Mining Items: Chillagoes still slow; or-
dinary scrippers like a quicker look-in. A Q. mining
prophet, who put his friends on to ths good things
once a week, has "“gone up King-street”; assets,
a trunk-full of scrip. Mt. Ussher, near Rockhampton,
crushed 585 tons for ’7580z. Rockhampton May returns
show good increase ; from various shows 10650 z. got from
2085 tons. Q. gold-yield for May of 101,1530 z. is record
for province. Scottish Gold - mine owners, Gympie,
negotiating for purchase of chief pup, No. 1 South
Scottish; shares have therefore doubled in value.
Some results : 2 S. Eastern, Gympie, 1130 tons,
17160 z., Is. div. Ch. Towers—Band of Hope, 355 tons,
4060 z., 6(1. div. ; Brilliant, 930 tons, 9340 z., 3d. div. ;
Brilliant St. George, 1350 tons, 14480 z., Is. div. ; Kelly’s
Blocks, 1004 tons, lllOoz., 6d div.
* * * •
Eastern Tas. tinfields promise to be very active
soon. The Briseis co. will spend a lot on its claim ;
works include a race of 20 miles to carry 130 heads of
water, a tunnel of over 800 ft. to convey tailings to Cascade
River, and numerous works of lesser importance. The co.
lately bought the Brothers’ Home claim (originally the
Krushkas’) and when in full swing will have the biggest
alluvial workings in Australasia. Electric light is now
being installed, enabling the mine to lie worked three
shifts. Estimated output over 300 t-ons tin monthly.
Those who know the mine ask where it’s coming from,
but the co. is sanguine.
The No. 1 is to start again in a week or two
after a long spell. The North Home (reckoned by some
the best show on the field) is under offer to a British
crowd with every prospect of flotation. At Branxholm
the Arba is doing a good bit of work- mostly dead work.
At Bradshaw’s Creek, the Pioneer Co., which suffers from
the chronic complaiut of E. Coast tin mines, want of
water, is cutting a 10-mile race to bring water from
Ringarooma River. At Lottah, Anchor eo. is battling
along on its claim. A 20-mile race has been surveyed
for months, but as yet no tender has been let —rumor
says for want of funds. Co. is building smelters at St.
Helens—but where the tin ore to keep them going is to
come from seems a reasonable query. Hardly likely that
any of the big producers will cart tin to Kt. Helens when
Scottsdale (whence a line of rail is available to convey it
to Launceston) is only half the distance. The dredging
fever has caught on in Tas,, particularly in the rivers of
the tin-bearing districts.
* « • »
The Chillagoe R. and M. Co.’s report says that
the first 50 miles of rail are now practically complete, and
that the whole line ought to he ready by end of year,
when also the first section of furnaces should lie blown in.
The general manager is “ very well satisfied ” with pro-
specting results. Chillagoe is a big contract and will ho
a long job ; its mining-area is so great as to be practically
ungraspable by an outsider.


OVERCOATS FOR THE WINTER SEASON
PALMERSTON OVERCOATS—
42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
W. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Viduna, Satin Facings and Fore-parts.
a 1 *
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
Single-Breasted.
BLUE AND FAWN BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
blue and fawn melton cloth
52s 6d
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d
42s
CLERICAL BLACK WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in TWEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s 6d
D.B. BLUE NAP, 60s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS,
with DEEP CAPE,
noy Scotch Twe eds, 30s, 35s, 50s, 55s
New
Smart
Shapes
PADDOCK COATS-
56 to 58 inches in Length.
FAWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 58s 6d, 65s
FAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVERT
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 54 to 66 inches in
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d.
COVERT COATS-
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 6d
Fawn Beaver, 45s
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES—
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth Facings, 40s
Black Vicuna, with Satin Facings, 47s 6d, 63s
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
Orient Clothiers, George & Barrack Streets, SYDNEY.
mn
IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
D . , „ , invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and. Chemists.
SCRUBB &. CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
m
Society
n , Wl 5 those who angrily assert that the
Church of England should have precedence in
P± llC J UDCtl0n ? ln „ N - S ' W - » it has in England,
fJhmvO 18 that in the latter country
Church of Englandisra is the State faith? N.S.W.
Australia, for that part—bows the State neck to
wbhTm- further, when the Duke of Newcastle
with a Mind faith said that what England did Aus-
iW rfn? U i d do ’ and c ?™P lIed a despatch directing
that U.E. clergymen should take precedence of all
others on public occasions in N.S.W., David
,™? v ?d i» N.S.W. Leg. Assembly,
that the Dukes direction was an invasion of the
R r ,™P™. r r i h OT 3 bberty, and should not bo
2o votes to S ‘ W ' iat motlon was carried by
Dissatisfied parties should, instead of goadintr
or coaxing an inexperienced Governor to set aside
♦he historical right of N.S.W. and break her
positive Parliamentary law, step out into the
open and shape thoir preposterous claim in a Bill
or the consideration of Parliament—when, no
doubt the Bill would go under the table with a
majority against of somewhere about six score.
Ihe gam here would be that such an expression of
Parliamentary opinion would effectually lay at
t l6 tn , he j° f S1 de-trickers and backstair
whisperers who day and night scheme to make
Cro.vernors, Mayors and other temporary ex-
ponents of authority help them to steal a stride
anea<dj of their neighbours.
Another pToof of the great advantage
ONCE CONSECUTIVELY.
" Fine bracing weather thin; cold hath every
morning, old chap.”
“ When did you start?”
“ This morning!”
accruing from the system of having aldermen
elected solely from the landlord class, came to light
the other day when Sydney Telegraph published
an account of a hideous rookery recently thrown
°JP en .to inspection by a firm which had purchased
the site and got more animals for its money than
it reckoned on. According to that paper the place
? va r? f. n “evil-smelling, pestilential, and dangerous
building ’ which had originally consisted of about
eight rooms, but had been added to according to
the exigencies of the room-letting business by the
addition of small weather-board apartments or
boxes till there were no less than 40 of these
death-traps. The flooring up and down-stairs
wa* rotten, the sewage pipes were burst and had
made the foundations a rotting quagmire. The
walls ran with foul moisture, and the roof over-
head was of sheets of iron laid over crumbling
shingles. This den is said to be situated in the
heart of the city, but the street and number are not
given. The reason that the horror escaped the
notice of the Council’s officers is no doubt
explained by the simple statement that before the
s ile it had been the property of—well, some-
body with influence in municipal politics. The
best means of coping with the trouble is to have a
Council elected by adult suffrage (so that it will
depend on the votes of the tenants of these 40
rooms as well as on the vote of the landlord), and
armed with a good comprehensive Building Act
carrying heavy penalties, to half of which any
person would be entitled who gave information
leading to conviction. Nothing like appealing to
the piratical instincts of the publio; the law
whion does that gets home every time.
• • • •
The proposed Sydney municipal bye-law
making it compulsory on landlords to provide a
bath-room and bath and water-supply in every
dwelling sounds rather humorous, but all the same
it is a great idea. The dirty people of every city
are of two kinds —those who are dirty by instinct
and those who are dirty by habit —said habit
arising from force of circumstances. Where a
family inhabits a one-apartment house with no
bath room, and the only possible wash is in a
tub in the dining-room (which is also every other
room), and the rest of the family has to be locked
out on the stairs meanwhile, people grow dirty
from habit. A family of ton would have to spend
tqo much of its time on tho stairs. The com ul-
sory bath -room would gradually make clean those
who are only dirty by circumstance. As for those
who are dirty by instinct, the instinct, in many
oases, is only an inherited circumstance and is
Hable to wear off. If the bath-room had been
made compulsory throughout theBritish dominions
in the days of Charles I. and had remained so ever
since, tho dirty instinct might hardly exist now,
and he of the sad peaked face and the essenced
hair would have left a pleasing fragrance of brown
soap streaking down 2J centuries of history.
• * • •
Some queer ideas are hatched in tho
S.M. Herald office. Ever since the plague out-
break the Herald has refrained from publishing
the names of the patients at the Quarantine
Station in its dailv medical reports. The paper
alludes to the “three” who are “delirious.” the
“two” who are “ weaker,” and the “ one ” who is
“sinking,” and the “ rest ” who are “better,” but
does not mention individual cases by name.
Consequently relatives and friends of the patients
eannot learn from the Herald the condition of
those in whom they are most particularly in-
terested but must refer to the Daily Telegraph,
News, or Star, which are all untroubled by the
scruples of the Herald. If the last-named refers
at aft to the state of health of the patients it is
difficult to appreciate the motives in leaving its
readers to guess which of the unfortunates are
worse and which are better.
*
* * *
One discovery made by Sydney’s Citizens’
Vigilance Committee was a room which served as
a kitchen, a bedroom, and a stable for two horses.
The lady of the house was found cooking the
evening meal with a horse standing on each side
of her.
Dear Bulletin,— .Re “Melb.’s ’’statement
(B., 2/6/’00) that the Salvation Army would not
admit a deadbeat because his imprisonment was
not recent enough. I know for certain that the
S.A. would not refuse admission to any man who
had been in gaol. On the contrary, the Army is
always looking out for discharged prisoners, as i*
receives on that account £600 p.a. from Vic-
Govt.—Ex-B. [No bearing on the case. Via
Government gives £600 a year to the Army for
aiding the recent prisoner, not the man who did a
term 10 or 15 years ago. And “Ex-B.” only
claims that it is discharged prisoners the Army
looks out for. The man who has been out five
years or so isn’t called a discharged prisoner.—
Ec. B.j
9 m » m
“ Her Majesty conies as recruiting ser-
geant.”—Irish paper.
A POLICE-
MAN'S DILEMMA.
South
Austra-
lia, which ought
to know better,
begins the absurdity
of changing well-
known names of
places in favor of the
names of warriors—who
certainly would be very
soon forgotten otherwise.
• * * *
The struggle for existence of the Sydney
omnibus has been about finished by the introduc-
tion of penny tram-fares. No one would be fool
enough to build new ’busses for the Sydney traffic,
and, when the vehicles now plying are worn out,
Sydney will practically see the last of its ’busses.
One proprietor, more enterprising than his fellows,
is still determined to fight the tram. He has had
erected over the top of his vehicles, unwieldy
enough already, a tarpaulin covering, in order to
attract traffic in wet weather. It is a pitiful sight
to see this huge two-decker crowded ’bus toiling
painfully up-hill with but two horses.
* * • •
Dear Bulletin. —JSe your article “Machine-
made Patriotism” (2/6/’00). Bitterly do many
N.S. W. provisional sohool-teachers of my acquaint-
ance remember the practical coercion embodied in
the suavely-worded official request for donations
or subscriptions, or both. Some even were able
to read between the lines a suggestion as to how
much they were expected'to give. Thus in the
departmental circular issued to teachers :—“For
instance, one might give two guineas ; another a
guinea and so much a month for a certain time ;
another so much a month for a certain time.”
Even if not intended as a suggestion, this was
grossly indelicate and maladroit. Not a few
teachers, again, believe this fund was intended to
serve the dual purpose of raking in the shekels
and finding out the anti-jingoes— i.e., those who
didn’t contribute. Summed-up, the whole thing
has a very ancient and fish-like smell.—Peda-
gogue.
• *
A recent typographical error in Melbowme
Jewish Hekald represented Rabbi Bo.us, of Ade-
laide, as having preached from Matthew instead of
Malachi ; whereupon some Sydney idiot (or wag)
sent the Rabbi a .New Testament. A Vic. firm of
“ curers, ” however, according to the same paper,
has gone one better by sending a Jewish minister
a circular setting forth the superior qualities of
their bacon. A pro - os
of which, Australia’s
best bacon-expert is a
Jew—a Jew of Jews—
strict in his diet as any
Rabbi who has ever
lived. Also, in all the
tvorld you could find no
bigger or blacker or more
Sheik-like beaid than
his.
“ The characteristics of bubonio plague
are, first, suddenness of attack. One may,
for instance,_ be walking along the street.
apparently in good health, and may sud-
denly become very ill indeed—possibly, scarcely
able to continue walking.— Press report.
Policeman: “Notv, phwat’s this; a case av
plague, or common droonk ? ”
Rockhampton (Central Queensland) seems
to be the Australian plague-centre now. In pro-
portion to its size Rockhampton, the city of Sin,
Sweat and Sorrow, has now had more cases and
more deaths than Sydney, and in about one-third
of the time. Next summer will probably see the
disease wake up all along the Kanaka-haunted
coast of N.Q. —and summer comes early and stays
late in these parts.
• • » •
Adelaide is solemnly preparing for a large
and creditable drunk when, peace is declared.
There is an impression abroad that the pious city
was far behind its sisters over the Mafeking cele-
brations, and the leading citizens have determined
that the stain shall be wiped out. Premier Holder
has announced that a supply of fireworks is on
the way from England, and “ ample notice of the
date of the general holiday will be given.” Also,
the breweries are working at high pressure.
* * * *
A Melbourne magistrate recently did a
good and noble act. He fined one Spinks 20s.
and costs for driving a meat-cart unprovided with
a seat, so that the only place the driver could sit
on was the meat. The bye-law which sets forth
that meat-carts must be provided with seats is a
move in the direction of cleanliness, anyhow. A
driver may not be sitting on the meat just as he
goes past a policeman, but it is dead sure that he
will want to sit down some time ; and if there is
nothing but the meat to sit on, the inference is
that he will sit on the meat.
* • • •
In a country town recently, The Bulle-
tin is informed, the presumable downfall of the
Boers was celebrated by burning Kruger in effigy,
the senseless exhibition being allowed by a local
parson to take place in the church-yard, the
church-bell being solemnly tolled, the while, as if
for a funeral. To the credit of the townspeople in
general, however, they have freely expressed their
disgust at such miserable foolery.
* * * »
Gordon Ayers, a son of the late President
of S.A. Council, has just been granted leave to
run a motor-car through Adelaide streets. Aid
Tomkinson, M.L.C., the 85-year-old Tory, was
the only objector.
“You’re a cow!” “0 you hogl” “You’re a dirty
gutter dog 1 "
“ Mister May’r ! ” “ Order 1 Chair 1 ” “ You had better
take more care 1 ”
41 You’re a weary wheezing wowser ! ” “ Order! Order! ”
“ What, sir ! How, sir ! ”
And that’s the way we talk in Sydney Council.
41 Wipe your eye 1 ” “ Blanky lie 1" Hear the chairman—
such a sigh!
Such a size! “Gentlemen / ” “He’s just like a
clucking hen ! ”
“You be d d!” “Don’t you dare!” “Order!
chair! order ! chair ! ”
And that’s the way we talk in Sydney Council.
“Listen to the serpent’s hiss!” “Gentlemen, I can’t
stand this ! ”
“ Slimy scoundrel! ” “Pack of thieves ! ” “ GENTLE-
MEN ! it really grieves .”
‘ Take a spell! ” “ Go to h — 11 " Do you shudder,
reader ; Well,
That’8 just the way we talk in Sydney Council.
THE IMMORTAL SOUL
The soul’s immortal, parsons say,
Another lie that counts for truth
With sleek round brothers void of ruth,
Who see souls murdered every day.


SoreTbroai
“You cannot do better than
gargle with ‘Condy's Fluid.’ ”
Sir Morell Mackenzie, M.D.
( The Eminent Throat Specialist)
Gargle
v. ith
Candy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL, London, England,
are the only Makers.
“Condy’s Fluid” can be pm chased of
all Cin mists and Stores. Beware of *»«' tation.
Do you know you can use
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
in boiling the clothes, or without
boiling the clothes, and the result
will be clean sweet linen,
white as driven snow.
s>
(/N/vw^/v
GrO TO HET.iL-
-IUOI.AND for Pretty Stumps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizafceth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
HATS.
HATS. HAIL
Mountcastle & Guard’s
Intent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
To prevent Bubonic Plague wear Metzler’s
“ Protective Anklets,” a certain protective against
the access of vermin and disease germs from the
ground. They are worn by several members of the
medical profession, including doctors of the staff of
the Board of Health, and are worn also by mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Police Force on duty in the
plague-infected quarters of Sydney. Obtainable
from all first-class chemists or from Head Office
of the Proprietary, 14 Castlereagh-street, Svdney.*
“ASK AND YE SHALL .RECEIVE.”
The best is worth asking for. “D.C.L.”
Whisky is the best that Scotland produces, and
you are not likely to get it unless you specially ask
for it—“D.C.L.” Whisky, please.*
David Jones and Cos., the big Sydney
drapers, offer a well-timed protest (in a letter to
Sydney Telegeaph) against two evils. Ine
“hvsterical and impulsive proclamation of public
holidays ” is one, and the other is an evil which
naturally accompanies the first one—that em-
ployes in very many cases lose their wages for
these holidays. A multitude of people pven the
most Jingo—who could ill spare to sacrifice one-
sixth of their week’s income, bitterly cursed every
Australian Govt, when it made them lose the
price of several square meals for themselves and
their children over the Mafeking episode. As
Messrs. Jones and Cos. point out, this docking of
wages “is hardly fair to employes, who are not m
any way to blame, ” and it is certainly a pleasing
thing to find an employer taking up that view of
the case. But the hysterical Premiers, on the
other hand, could hardly order the employers to
pay for work which wasn’t done and value not
received. The best thing to do now is to dock the
Government of a day’s salary for Mafeking Day and
warn it to be a little more thoughtful in future.
It rejoiced on full wages and compelled most of
the community to rejoice on no wage at all.
Justice G. B. Simpson gave a curious
decision at Sydney Criminal Court t’other day in
the case of a juror who presented an affidavit em-
bodying reasons for exemption from service. The
Judge declined to excuse on the ground that the
affidavit was sworn before a J.P. instead of a
Commissioner—which simply means that a J.P.
does the work of swearing gratis while the
Commissioner gets a fee. Greasing the fat sow as
usual.
The lions at Sydney Zoo have been roaring
loudly and often of late. Hardly a night has
passed recently but their noise could be heard at
Rose Bay—perhaps three miles off.
TASTES DIFFER.
No. 1: “ I wouldn’t make an exhibition of myself like those women
bathiny if I was as thin as they are. I like an ombongpong
figer , as the French say.”
No. 2: “ What’s that mean?”
No. 1: “It means—a —well 1 Oh, it means 'rolling fat.’”
Ballarat, for so long quite exempt from
rats, has produced the record rodent. Last week
a brute measuring 24 in. from snout to tail-tip was
killed in the Garden City. Ballarat is rapidly
losing its reputation as a great centre of temper-
ance.
It’s quite the caper now-a-days to rope-in
a few unsuspecting friends, heave the “Absent-
Minded Beggar ” at them, and pass round
the hat for the Jingo fund. A society woman,
with three little boys, an artistic eye, and a soul
above buttons, thinking to go one better and to
give a touch of realism to the performance, dressed
the three innocents in khaki, and ranged them in
front of her while she murdered the “pome.”
For the first few lines her audience took their
pleasure sadly, but when she came to “Cook’s
son, duke’s son, son of a belted earl,” their joy
knew no bounds. Even now she has no notion
what they were laughing at.
* * • •
Female typists are promised sunny
times under N. S. W. Public Service Board.
The Board will, it is said, endeavour to
bring the females’ pay to the same level as
the males’! Typed work can be judged
on its merits without respect to sex and is
thus an easy subject to start reform on.
• * * *
The George-street (Sydney) cable
tram traffic is growing so rapidly that an
extra car a day has of late been put on.
*. * *
A visitor to Wanganui (M.L.)
Museum wrote to a local paper regretting
that a looted Boer bible snould find a
place amongst the curios, of the institute,
and asserted that “Trooper should
be asked to restore it, if possible, to the
family whose birth-registers it contains.”
Answer to a correspondent in Sidney
Mail
To overcome the drinking habit all that is required is
strength of will.
Exactly ! All one needs to outrival Shakespeare is
strength of head, or, to surpass Sandow physically,
strength of constitution.
“ Ovo ” : Re too
much energy (8.,
26/5/’00). The largest
part of some sur-
geons’ incomes is
derived from ovario-
tomy. The fee is
usually 00 guineas,
and the operation can
only be successfully
performed by a man
who is constantly
practising it. The
surgeon, therefore,
has always a tend-
recommend it,
and often does so
when it is unneces-
sary. Some time ago
a friend of mine in an
Australian metropo-
lis submitted bis wife
to an ovariotomist of
renown (said to make
£4OOO a year-at the
game), and the suf-
ferer died one hour
after the operation.
A few months later
another friend of
mine, who was inti-
mate with this unfor-
tunate couple, agreed
on the same surgeon’s
recommendation to
have the operation
performed on his
wife. The surgeon,
thechloroformist, and
the nurse arrived in
the patient’s house,
and were preparing
the table, when my
friend announced that
he had changed his
mind, and would ra-
ther see his wife die
in ordinary course
than run the risk of
a capital operation.
Three months after-
wards the lady com-
pletely recovered her
health, and has been
well ever since. If I
contemplated under-
going a serious opera-
tion, I would on no
account allow it to be
done without the re-
commendation of two
independent physicians.
* * * «
During the last 10 years Australia has
sent 101 missionaries to the disaffected districts
of China. The Australian contributions amount
for the 10 years to £27,552.
Port Pirie does most of the smelting of
Barrier lead ores now; so the Pirie local paper
often prints paragraphs like this—so often that it
might almost as well keep the thing standing: “A
man named Henry fell down in a lead fit
near the Hotel last evening. He was taken
to the hospital.” By-and-bye, though, Port Pirie
will not take any more notice of this sort of thing
than Broken Hill used to. Years ago, Premier
Kingston, foreseeing the removal of the smelters,
collected information with a view to legislation for
NATURE'S ERRORS.
SHE: “Well?”
HE (as mother and daughter
enter): “I was just thinking
how absurdly Nature repeats
her mistakes.”
Five thousand cases of
eggs arrived in Sydney from
China last week. Do you
know how they feed their
fowls in China?
the protection of work-peoplo and local residents;
but, apparently from fear of scaring away the
poisonous industry, nothing was done. And now
the fear of removal to Newcastle keeps legislators
tongue-tied.
» • * •
“ Melb.” : I once saw Magda in real life,
at the Police Court. It was an affiliation oase,
tiie girl, of a superior cast to tho ordinary, being a
refined-looking little person. “ Let him marry
the girl! ” was, of course, the sapient dictum of
tho Beak-in-Chief. “No,” said she, “ I will never
marry the man who deceived me.” “ Wha-a-t! ’
exclaimed his Beakship, as much astounded as
Magda’s pious dad when she refuses to marry
Keller,
A Melbourne beer-expert had the assurance
to sue a local constable recently for escorting him
to the watch-house during a period of temporary
instability. The gentleman posed as one skilled
in the art of assimilating long beers. Said he, “ I
have not been drunk—thoroughly drunk—for over
12 months. I can walk when drunk arid know
that lam walking. No matter how far gone I
am I can keep my feet. I should call 24 pints a
day a fair allowance. On this occasion I lost
count of my drinks after I had had 17. My mate
kept count of the others.” Seeing that the “ex-
pert,” at 5 in the morning, was still engaged
chasing beers without his boots, coat, hat or socks,
the Court decided that the arrest was probably
justifiable.
Unconscious humour in Sydney Full
Court. The C. J. to eminent counsel at tho liar
table: “Are you in tho next case, Mr. Blank?
E.C. “Yes, your Honor.” C.J. : “How long
will it last do you think ? ” E.C. : “Only a few
minutes, your Honor; it’s an appeal from Mr.
Justice Walker.”
• * • *
A lady writes from Maoriland to The
Bulletin
A paragraph In the “ Woman’s Letter ” (B. 19/5/’00) re-
ferring to the 20 years spent in bed by Balzac’s father, re-
calls an incident, the truth of which I vouch for. In ’B9 I
visited England with my mother, who took me to
Brighton to see an old friend of hers, a Miss Margaret
W . “ She was in bed when I left England in 1849,”
said my mother to me, “ and I am told sne has been in
bed ever since." And, sure enough, there wb found her,
a little, pale, white-haired, waxy-complexioned woman,
still in becL When a girl—and a pretty girl she was, too
“A PENNY LUXURY?”
(A familiar scene in Georye-street , Sydney.)
How the Commissioners accurately estimated the
tram traffic.
—she becam# engaged to a man who proved to be already
possessed of a wife and family. On making this awkward
discovery Miss W , deeming the exigencies of the case
demanded some such demonstration, lay down to die, and
accomplished her end after 43 years in bed, by which
time her former lover hail spent at least a decade in
searching for the black-eyed houris of paradise. It is
well to put this case on record, for, as a woman, I feel
that the time of such feeble protest against the machina-
tions of inconstant Man has gone for ever. To-day Miss
W would borrow Mrs. Jardine’s whip.
« < * * *
Collins-street Melb. Athenaeum reading-
room is in Queer-street, financially. The com-
mittee has sent a printed circular to every sub-
scriber, pointing out that there has been a steady
financial loss for five years past, and that the
institution must close, unless things look up. If
the Athenaeum goes bung a few out-of-date old
identities will die of the shock.
MOORE PARK.
(Dedicated to Sydney Municipal Council.)
When the dew is on the garbage and the bloom is on the
slush,
And the dreamy drain is musing ’neath the evening’s rosy
blush,
When the fragrance rises wildly and you almost hear it
bark,
Then’s the time when life is pleasant on the benches in
the Hark.
The doctors softly chuckle, and the undertakers smile ;
For both the Tip is toiling, making money all the while.
And the bacillus bubonic leaves his rat at high-tide mark
And comes joyfully to join you and the wenches in the
Hark.
If the Aldermen must have it—if the Mayor can’t do
without,
If to them it’s board and lodging, clothes, cigars, and
daily “ shout,”
If to them their Tip is sacred as the ancient Hebrew Ark,
Why don’t they hold their meetings ’mid the stenches in
the Park ?
J.E.
AN OCEAN DREAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Long lines of shadows, an d a wintry sea
That sobs and moans within a rock-bound bay ;
A thread of crimson in a lurid sky,
A wind that sings the deathnote of the Day.
My heart put out to sea that weary night
To sail straight onward to the eastern shore,
Where Light and Love, and Music and the Morn
Are waiting till the skylark wakes once more.
Alas ! there came a shipwreck on the shore !
And when the daylight broke across tho Bar
A mastless ship that drifted like a ghost
Lay in the pale track of the Morning Star.
And yet, and yet, in spite of grief and wreck
I think that someday, when the day shall dawn,
My Heart shall once again put out to sea,
And safely sail into the Happy Morn !
COBAR.
“Alba Dorion ” relates to The Bulletin
his adventure with a baby :—
T’other night, at my boarding-house, I was roused
from my work by a steady sobbing in next room.
Stopped my ears with wool, jammed the door hard ;
sobbing continued until it drenched writer’s soul
with the miseries of babydom. Got up, tapped next
door ; no answer. Entered stealthily, and saw
fattest baby in Australia. Also, he was red through
fighting the hearthrug. No one else in room. He
looked up, and stopped crying. Being angry, I
took him up and slipped to my own room. Locked
the door savagely, and hurled him on to bed, and—
the spring mattrass shot him up 3ft. A gentle
howl of pleasure escaped him. This was annoying.
Drew up a chair and watched him. Exhilarated by
the motion of the bed, he began to ask me, in baby-
gluck, whether the drought was responsible for the
scarcity in milk. Getting no reply, he tied himself
in the sheet, and started to kick his way through
the bed. Put him on the floor, and gave him
bottle of ink to play with ; in 3min. he was buck-
ing like a zebra suffering from too much black
stripe. By-and-by black ink palled ; gave him
extra large bottle of red, immense success. Held
him up to the mirror while he baptised himself
in three places. Presently terrible sounds hap-
pened in corridor — knew them for a large
mother dashing into corners crying, “Billy,
Billy—where’s my little Billy?” Billy was get-
ting in some decent work in two colors; on
his chest were three splashes by Aubrey Beards-
ley. Then . . . sounds of other females drop-
ping things to look for Billy. Sounds continued
in street below. A man who owed six weeks’
board walked up the stairs leisurely—“Good
evening, ma’am,” he said pleasantly. “ What
the devil’s the matter ? ” Nobody answered
him. An unquiet female (she takes the
same size in babies as Bill’s mother)
stated huskily that a small boy like Bill
was playing between the tram-lines. Count-
less feet tramp towards the tram-lines.
Nearest tram-line three miles as the crovv
flies. Silence. Then, with care, I took Bill back
to his hearthrug 1 . That night I heard a woman pray-
ing ; she said, “ Lord, keep the devil from my child !
Amen.” Next day I saw her with a hammer, nailing a
horseshoe over her bedroom door.


NECKWEAR
IN
Charming V ariety,
AND
Profusion
n
*
<b
'
O
S'
Lace
Scarves, and
Eibbon Velvets.
Collarettes, with
Square Yoke, also Square
Back-pointed Fronts, Silk
Fichus, Cravats, Fancy Bows and
Chiffons, Silk & Black Velvet Collar
Bands, Plain Black Collar Bands, Vests.
Ostrich Feather Bows in Greys, Whites,
White and Black.
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agrent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Nance O’Neil, the sumptuous American
tragedienne, is another instance of the irresistible
appeal which graceful line and flowing curve
make to the heart, of mere man. The more
artistically this eloquent expression of contour is
achieved the more susceptible is man aforesaid to
its soft and seductive rythm. And nothing assists
in perfecting the soul-melting harmony of form
like the P.D. Corset. P.D.—Poet’s Dream.*
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
||CHT' x9^
WNNINC
&
*
m
Write tor our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
nm
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
Stole TEAS have HI 0 Equal.
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Mr Dear Mtee._ Sj-d,,ey ’ Ju ™ 12 lm ■
Wasit an omen—or merely a coincidence—that
nearly all the women at the Opening of Parlia-
ment, on luesday, were tailor-built? I don’t
know whether Miss Rose Scott and Miss Spence
noticed, and were pleased. Miss Scott could not
be accommodated with a seat. Miss Spence
shared a chair with another woman. Men sat
down all round. How delightful when things are
reversed, when women spread themselves over the
chairs, and men change feet on the floor !
The wife of the Premier came in. No seat '
But up rose a little Australian A.D.C. and gave
away his. What a lesson to—well, they looked as
if they would say “yep,” and turn the floor
into a spittoon the men who had such chances to
deny their country and be very polite.
, Has Ex. pleased the assemblage by “putting
em all on. lam a little vague about the part of
his costume that he omitted last year, but believe
n was the pink silk stockings ! The seigniors took
that as a slight. Now, do you think a woman
would take it as a slight if another woman wore
black stockings instead of pink ! Weird little
frictions like tins are always knocking up against
one at Parliament House, and it makes one
scared to think that our lawmakers sulk over
tiny wardrobe trifles while fixing up the lestiny
of the nation. J
And 1 thought it was a pity that the wigged
gentleman should have mumbled so over the
names of the new M.L.C.’s. He read them out as
u he was ashamed of them.
t * * ouse was well represented. Pretty
, ,ady Susan was there in black voile, with a smart
black toque and bolero, and strings of pearls
aiound her neck. Her little daughter was in an
unaffected Lnghsh-looking get-up of white frock
and.floppy hat trimmed with a white scarf. This
18 the sort of child-frocking an Australian mamma
calls dowdy, and avoids in favor of velvet and pas-
sementerie and a feathered toque. Lady Alary
Lygon wore black voile, a black chip hat,
and a long string of pearls. Lady Bertha
was in cigar cashmere with white gloves and yoke.
Mrs. B. K. Wise shrank away under a grebe toque
trimmed with red roses, and dark coat and skirt.
Mrs. Delohery was in black, and Miss Delohery’s
mie and grebe toque was charming. A Melb.
bride—Mrs. Cobb-Cox—sported a smart red vel-
vet and silk hat with a coat and skirt; and Miss
Mary Clarke, who was with her, was also tailored
and toqued. Mrs. Bland Holt looked as bright as
ever in a red felt hat and brown frock. Lady
accom panied by her only unmarried
daughter, was simply frocked in black with white
spots, and a black bonnet touched with orange.
Bady Harris was also in black, and Miss Harris
wore a black hat and tan jacket over a tucked
automobile skirt.
Let me pause here to tell you that an engage-
ment is just announced. Miss Harris, our Mayor’s
daughter with Dr. Salmon, of Melbourne. I
believe the marriage is not to come off till the
Mayoress ceases to be the Mayoress, and can dis-
pt nsj more easily—with her popular daughter’s
assistance at functions.
Before leaving the dresses T must tell you how
fetching a young clean-cut aide looked in a black
velvet suit, knee-breeches and heaps of silver
buckles and buttons. Captain Smith was in
red and gold, and was really the most responsible-
looking of the V.R. men. A bevy of little boys
in regimentals, with their heads held very far
back, make up the suite at present; ridiculously
are young Clarke and young
Wills-Allen.
At the Mayoresses’ reception last week all the
women wrapped up in white cat. An epidemic of
this animal more than threatens. It is here. All
over bydney. Talk about plague ! Some women
survive the attack. Young pink-and-white-
eheeked women. The white animal doesn’t kill
them. But ghastly are the ravages the epidemic
of pure white makes against brown, or yellow, or
pale-green faces. It even turns one against
stewed rabbit and jugged hare.
Mayoress Harris avoided the general calamity,
and wore black, and a black bonnet. Miss Harris
was in mauve voile, sprinkled with white. Tea
™dcake, tea and singing, tea and scandal ; and
as the Mayoral tea is the only place where these
are on offer this deadly winter, the receptions are
eiowded. By the way, at these “At Homes”
one never finds the Mayor.
Govt. House has sent out cards for another
Bvenmg, dated June 27th. A great deal of music
will be the motive of this party, but I understand
the guests are not to imagine themselves at any-
thing like a concert, but to look as if it were more
party then music.
Last year, benighted Potts Point was putting
the blame of the Blue Tickets it didn’t get on to
the shoulders Of a young man who has just had
something quite different pinned on his white
revers. Ibis is Air. Corkran, late Private Sec.,
who rejoined his old chief, Lord-Lieut. Cadogan,
after a terrible six months among Sydney tuft-
’3J?nters. The Queen presented him with an
M. V.O. when she was over in Ireland lately.
Don t ask me what an M.V.O. is ; suffice it that
it s something the Queen gives, but not an Indian
shawl.
Up at Govt. House there is now anew arrange-
ment in the ante-room where Potts Point goes to
make its cross in the big books. Two screens
cum &v ~ w^lorn ■ . Only.Cavanagh, the hall-porter.
Still, Cavanagh is a linguist, and understands even
the language of Potts Point; and “My ’eavens,
1 ve writ Brownses’ name without a big B ” may
be quite intelligible behind that screen.
At the Art Gallery last Saturday Lord Beau-
champ was taking his sisters round. His Ex.
walked about hatless, and looked white and thin.
!No w aider ! The comments passed on his collec-
tion, . till on view at the Gallery, were enoug. to
drive my connoisseur grey. “That’s for frying
fish m,"’ I heard ab< ut Sarah Marlborough’s silver
warming-pan with its silver handle as long and
th:.:,c as three broom-handles. “ Madamß de
1 ompadvur s Matchless Agenda ” staggered the
curious crowd. They t<x>k it for a match-box,
finally. Oh, shades of Watteau, who painted the
35 exquisite little pictures over the back where the
lueifers would strike !
While in the Gallery I had a look at the Stu-
dents Exhibition. It represents Art Society,
Society of Artists, Technical College, and Mel-
bounie Art School. If pressed to mention its
distinguished feature I would be reluctantly
obliged to confess it seemed to be overrun with
little boys who had taken to drink early. That
Melbourne scholarship picture, for instance.
Every small boy in that flourishes a puffy cheek,
beery eye, and nose that shames geraniums.
By the yvay, Society of Artists’ travelling
scholarship closes on June 22nd. The scholarship
carries £l5O a year for three years, but the suc-
cessful student has to present the Art Gallery
with one picture every year for three years; so
is it a scholarship, altogether? Sculptors are
also a lowed to compete. The painters’ comjie-
tition demands three oils, a life-size study of a
head, a landscape, and a composition. To judge
these, artists LongstafF, \1 ‘Cubbin, and Cox are
coming over from Melbourne , so that the usual
art-howl about Brown-Smith awarding to little
things of his own will no longer be hoard in this
land.
His Ex. has given trophy-vendors and others
the true, authentic and histoidc pronunciation for
the name of the Man of Mafeking—Baden-Poole,
not oio as in “ cow.”
A benefit concert to Kate Rooney, of the sweet
contralto voice, who is off to Europe soon to
study, is being engineered by a strong committee.
I will tell you more about it next week.
Another St. Vincent’s College pupil is Miss
Josie Adler, a child of 11, with a beautiful voice,
promising something very special in the future.
A fund to educate her for five years has just been
raised by Mrs. J. T. Too!k>, and the child
soprano, who is just like a little edition of Amy
Castles—is now under the oharge of Madame
Christian.
Haddon Chambers, whose alleged intended
marriage to Melba was reported with such detail,
is not only already married but is so distinctly
married that he has an eight-year old daughter.
Ihe latter, Margery Haddon Chambers, is follow-
ing in the literary footsteps of her father, and a
pretty child-story from her baby pen appeared in
a recent issue of the Gkntlkwoman. No wonder
the Chambers family objected considerably to the
alleged “proposed marriage.” Any family would
object under the circumstances, and I regret that
the previous paragraph which here appeared made
any reference to that family.
The Rev, Charles Clark is back fora “Silver
Jubilee ” courso of lectures and recitations at the
Centenary Hall. I think he is seasoned enough
not to discourage the following pretty anecdote.
Years ago, before he left the pulpit, he sat up late
one Saturday yarning with a brilliant pressman.
They drank hot, sweet things with lemon in them,
told funny stories, and parted late, very
late. Next night the pressman went to hear
Charles preach. He sat in the front row, and
there was an awful moment when Charles prayed,
“ Lord , send down thy spirit, sweet ana strom//”
As he said that a slight quiver passed over his
face ; the pressman dropped his head in his hands.
“ I knew what you were thinking of,” said Charles
afterwards, “the same thought collared me, and I
didn’t dare breathe for a whole minute.”
Wieg, nd’s organ-seat is filled, or half-filled,
by Mr. Thomas Massey. But alas, in the
case of the native-born there is always someone to
take the mystic halo of genius off his brow by
remembering that he went to school with him as a
boy. Nobody you can recollect as having knuckly
hands and being caned ignominiously by his
teacher can ever oe regarded quite in the soulful
impersonal light so essential to an organ-manipula-
tor. So impressed is the mother of a youthful
Sydney genius (aged six) with this truth‘that she
has bought her juvenile prodigy a tutor all to
himself, so that in after years no enemy .can bring
up the accusation that he went to school with him
to damn his title to fame.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“ St. Vincent’s Hospital ball (Wednesday,
June 6) began brightly, but came to a sad end:
when half-way through, a dancer, Councillor J. F.
M‘Carron, the vyell-known printer, suddenly feli
dead. Mr. M‘Carron was a neat, smart-
looking, immensely popular man, possessed
of all the style and vim which a certain
type of Mel bourn eite owns in common with the
best sort of business American. He will be
deeply regretted by his employes—and what
better could be said of any man ?
“Bananalanders tell of a pillar of Methodism
(his memory is still green up North) who, in and
out of season, propounded what lie called his
‘ test question ’ : ‘ Dear brothers, dearer sisters,
would you like to die in a ball-room?’ As for
the lamented city councillor, surely even Crom-
v.’ 11Puritans, had .such a case occurred in their
time, would have said ‘ May my last end be like
his ! ’ To begin with, it was a charity ball, and
only goodwill towards men induces an old house-
father not only to buy tickets for, but to tread the
wme-preas at charity entertainments, where crea-
ture comforts, refreshments, &c., suffer for the
sake of the cause. Deceased was dancing with his
daughter when taken ill, and eyes that could see
discerned a halo of unselfishness and devotion
round the head of’ the dying man as he breathed
his last.
“The ball began with a procession of “floral
sets” headed by bag-pipers. Such an undignified
skurry ! Hieland skirling is evidently too rapid
for ordinal/ non-Celtic marchers, and not one
woman in a hundred can walk both fast and grace-
fully. Lady Madden’s “ Winter Lancers ” were
rich in young and pretty girls. The promoter’s
own two daughters were like dew-blush roses in
their prescribed decollette white muslin frocks,
with a dash of silver powder on their high-raised
hair, sm"’.! holly wreaths, court veils sprinkled
with boss snowflakes and holly-trimmed white
satin muffs. Another of the Winter group was
that fragile Bananaland belle, who lived in an
out-west township where she kept house for her
father, a well-known C.Q. identity, till she made
a brilliant match at 17, and launched straight
away into Melbourne society. Another of the
snowdrop-and-holly wearers was a blooming,
dark-haired daughter of Judge Hodges.
“ Janet Lady Clarke was the key-note of the
‘Summer set,’ with powdered hair and the
costume of the evening, a rich white silk, extra-
masterly as to bodice-cut and so imposing as to
train that other tails seemed downheeled and
shamefaced. Islands of fine black lace, laid on in
detached motifs, were separated by masses of
crimson and yellow roses, which also festooned the
accompanying wicker-crook, and in conjunction
with diamonds formed a glorified ghost of a house-
maid’s cap.
_ “Lady Madden in blue brocade brooded pen-
sively on the dais, while the lady of Cliveden
waltzed like a Spring chicken, abandoning her
impressive train to the mercies of the crowd. If
you can’t afford to ruin your dress-tail content
yourself with a cutty skirt. The careful and
troubled Martha who ungracefully ch'erislies her
train on her arm would look better in a bob-tailed
frock.
“A smart bride recompensed an old flame by
choosing him for hor partner in a special sot of a
certain dance last week. That’s the sort of gruel
a girl likes to ladle-out and a man has to swallow.
“ There was a slight fracas in social and mili-
tary circles lately over a very simple matter. The
papers announced that a certain fair dame was
fixing up a military set for a certain ball. But
the Commandant descended upon the scene in
wrath and declared that his pervission had not
been sought, and it should not be given. Nor
was it. The proposal was accordingly abandoned,
and Sassiety now speaks of the Set that failed in
quiet whispers, for there was more than a question
of courtesy involved.
“Cliveden is to be thrown open twice this
week. On Monday, Lady Clarke taken her turn
at entertaining the Naice subscribers to the musi-
cal at-homes of the season, and on Tuesday even-
ing wipes off all scores up to date by treating the
Dante Society, the Austral Salon, and the Alli-
ance Francaise in a bunch at a sing-song and
coffee-crush.
“ Miss Gray’s wedding is still talked of in
Melb., although it took place as long ago as Mafe-
king day. It was impossible for the bridal party
to take the direct route—they had to make their
way through back lanes, and finally through the
sculleries and kitchens of the Grand, the front
entrance being absolutely blocked.
“At Scherek’s third concert, pianiste Una
Bourne, less than ever ‘of the earth earthy,’ tied
her pale-gold curls with faint-pink to match the
trimmings of her brown velvet frock, and con-
ciliated possible objectors to short skirts by lacing
her slim ankles into high tan boots. Intellect and
power, surprising in one of her fragile build, are
feathers in Una’s cap at present. Bo far, she lacks
Elsie Hall’s pearly delicacy, Adela Verne’s crisp
coquetry, and Mark Hambourg’s fervid force.
Signora Coy’s fawn lustre had cream vest and
fichu, and there were touches of orange in her black
hat. There were lots of nice little Eton jackets in
the audience, worn with laced, insertioned, tucked
blouses of creamy silk or muslin. One pretty
malapert looked audacious in white drill Lady-
smith hat, trimmed with saucy black satin bows.
Only very ligh' -colored furs are on view at present.
White or grey fox, chinchilla, grebe, and swans-
down. One woman at the concert was fierce in a
Baden-Powell head-piece of burnt straw, dinted
and battered as if by siege-wear, and crested with
African parrot-v ings stuck in anyhow.
“To my mind Nance O’Neil’s biggest mistake
in ‘Magda’ is the beautiful spotted cloak she
wears early in her first scene. Her entrance is
finely worked up to by the little sister. All eyes
are eager for Magda, and suddenly a long, white
cloak walks into the '.room—a cloak and nothing
more, for the lady’s -face too is hidden. For a
space of quite 2min. there is nothing on the stage
but that great, heavy over-garment, and the audi-
ence lias dropped all interest in the drama and is
whispering about the beauties of Nance’s cloak,
and wondering what on earth it cost. Miss O’Neil
should sacrifice her cloak to her art—her art
demands it. But it is a beautiful cloak, and it’s
ten to one on it.
“Quite the artistic thing just now is to call at
John Longstaff’s studio and perturb him by taking
a chair in front of his latest big picture, the
portrait of a Melbourne matron who is not anxious
to figure in press notices. As the subject for a
large-size painting by Longstaff the world is de-
lighted to make the lady’s acquaintance. A tall
fair woman of experience, with her very best
curved smile on her mouth, and a long violet,
velvet cloak (beaver fur bordering) hanging loosely
from her shoulders. The big white-lined sleeve,
the hand negligently holding the cloak a little
back from the white gown, the long mauve sash,
the hang' of the black hat strings—everything is
beautifully painted and just where it should be for
—what should one say ?—easy picturesque effect.
The figure stands out against a background of
tapestry that emphasises the triumph of the
artist’s daring scheme. Most people will think
this his finest production up to this year of grace
1900. As for the portrait of Henry Lawson, which
is also on view when asked for, it is the man.
Looking at ; the poet on the canvas, one can even
see that he is deaf, and feel that lie wonders-what
we are saying about him.
“Melbourne supports close upon 500 private
schools, and young lady teachers capable of in-
structing in Greek, modern languages, and the
higher mathematics are offered Is. 6d. a wee.<.
Half-a-crown is considered a munificent wage. In
470 of them, says an authority, you will not find
a female teacher getting more than £35 a year.
One young woman, a graduate of Melb. Lm-
versity, was offered Is. 6d. a week and 6d. extra
for every new pupil she could bring. And parlor-
maids can still get 12s. 6d. a week easily.
“The man in Melbourne who was most glad at
the reported abandonment of Pretoria was Dr. T.
P. MTnemey, Warden of the University Senate,
whose big brother Tim—6ft. 3in. —was a prisoner of
war there. Capt. MTnemey was the tallest man,
except perhaps Major Eddy, that Victoria sent to
the war, and ha was wounded and captured at
Rensburg what time Eddy was killed. A letter
to his brother, which the Boers have allowed him
to send, says that, oddly enough, he was taken to
hospital in the same ambulance as the man who
shot him, and a man whom he shot at the same
moment; for the fighting was at such close quar-
ters that they recognised each other. Dr. Tay
Pay is going to try to find out the family of the
man his brother wounded, and, if they were de-
pendent upon the young fellow’s earnings, make
some provision for them. To those who urge that
this is an exaggerated idea of his responsibilities,
he quotes Lowell—
Ef you take a sword an’ dror it,
An’ go stick a feller thru,
Guv’inent ain’t to answer for it,
God’ll send the bill to you.
“Liverpool (Walker) Art Gallery and Man-
chester Gallery asked the trustees of Vic. National
Gallery to lend ‘ Quatre Bras ’ to them, when it is
done with at London Guildhall Exhibition. The
request has been refused. As the picture is
already in England, this is hardly a wise decision.
The Liverpool and Manchester galleries contain
some of the finest paintings in England, and
might have been fairly asked for an exchange
loan. A chance has been lost of letting Australia
see, perhaps, fine examples of Rossetti and Bume-
J ones.
“ All in a lump come the divorces of these stage
people: Melba, Mrs. Brown-Potter, Mrs. Bert
Gilbert, Edna May, and Louise Hepner. Really,
when men marry actresses they should arrange
witli a lawyer to have the divorce-papers prepared
together with the wedding documents to save ex-
pense. There is to-day hardly a theatrical family
of note that has not a divorce in it. When
members of the ‘porfesh.’ are not working they
appear to put in the time getting divorced.
Decrees nisi are plentiful as grease-paint.
“Much reference to Major-General Hutton in
the war news these timos reminds one that the
shiny-scalped warrior used to be a gallant cham-
pion of The Bulletin. Somebody was speaking
snortfully of the ‘ vilo rag’ at a select Toorakian
tea, when Lady Clarke—Janet Lady, as she now
is—had the hardihood to declare that she thought
it ‘a very clever paper, which does a lot of good.’
Then the Majah-General, with the characteristic
twinkle in his eye, owned up as follows : ‘ When I
first arrived in Australiah, some of my friends
told me not to think of evah looking at The Bul-
letin, you know, and the first time I did look at
it—by accident—I certainly thought it a scandal-
ous—most scandalous —publication. Didn’t look
at it again for a long time 1 —in fact, nevah would
have looked at it again if some unkind friend
hadn’t called my attention to a paragraph about
military attaches—and myself. Thought there
was a good deal of truth in what the shocking
papah said, and so I looked at it next week, and
found some more things that seemed to have a lot
of truth in thorn, and now I find myself buying
The Bulletin regularly.’ After which the select
gathering decided by a large majority that the
‘ rag’s ’ vileness was all a—haw—mistake.
“ Melbourne has taken Donald Macdonald toiler
bosom. His success as lecturer is assured. Among
other anecdotes to the Boer credit there is this
graceful one. Whenever a party carrying the
white flag visited the Boer lines, their escort of
Lancers was invariably met by a number of Boers,
who presented each man with a small packet of
tobacco. As Macdonald says, it would have been
impossible at that time to have given a more valu-
able or grateful gift to any man. The audience,
though intensely appreciative, was rather ag-
grieved by being told matter it had read in the
Akgus. Khaki worship has reached such an ex-
tent now that there was much enthusiasm over
Macdonald’s drab coat and baggy trousers, quite
apart from the fine stalwart man they covered.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


Hotel
Australia
Bates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
Dr. Gresswell, President of Victorian
Board of Health: “ There is no
danger in coming to Sydney at
the present time. Of course, it
depends a great deal where the
visitors go. To come to a place
like The Australia Hotel is to run
no risk at all.”
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Oaatlereagh-st., Sydney.
Premier Life Insurance Company of the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
CONSOLIDATED REVENUE ACCOUNT
Of the Company, commencing at day of organisation, February Ist, 1843, and ending December 31st, 1899.
Income. £ s. d.
Premiums earned ... ... 147,491,564 17 10
Considerations for Annuities
granted ... ... ... 3,751,119 19 7
Interests, Dividends and Rents 41,593,197 5 7
Mortuary Bond Deposits ... 55,388 110
Profit and Loss, net 4,917,343 4 8
£197,808,613 9
Outgo.
Claims incurred under Policies
(no re-insurances): —
Losses by Death ...'.
Matured Endowments ...
Surrenders ...
Annuities
Cash Bonuses to Policy-
holders
' Commissions and Expenses of
Management, including Taxes
Amount of Insurance Funds on
December 31st, 1899
£ s. d.
45,477,842 6 9
9,642,438 3 7
28,929,879 8 4
1,315,040 17 5
20,548,135 2 7
30,327,224 15 9
61,568,052 15 1
£197,808,613 9 6
Note. —In above Statement the pound sterling is taken at $4.87.
For full information regarding Policies apply at any of the Company’s Offices.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
The plague has had its advantages for some
people,though not for most. The Sydney Safe Deposit,
for instance, has had a great accession of business during
the last few months, consequent on persons having de-
cided to prepare for the worst by placing their papers,
&c., in safety. The fear is that when*a house is quaran-
tined valuables may go astray. It is well to be on tbe
safe side, and the Safe Deposit affords perfect protection
against either fire or burglars. It is well worth a visit,
anyway. The Deposit is situated in Ash-street, dear to
Paling and Co’s.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOK ALL STOCK AN!) POULT It Y.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
Lorimer’s
Compound Syrup of Hypo phosphites.
. . Beware of Imitations . .
Solk Agbnt for N.S.W. :
0. E. Newman, King-st., Sydney.
Aymard’s Milk Sterilisers
to arrive shortly.
A Revolution in Sterilisers
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Sydney Worker has had three editors in
1900, and the year is yet young. _ _
At the beginning of last month Victoria s
only Brassey was falling off various things in East
London, Cape Colony.
Mrs. George Dean, victim of the memor-
able North Shore poisoning case, has got married
again-to a Mr. Benjamin William Bridge. .
The Young Man, London, after inter-
viewing cricketer W. G. Grace, comes out with
the astounding news that he has only one lung..
Chief-Justice Darley is expected to retire
from his seat on N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench on
or soon after the attainment of his 70th birthday.
Vic. Premier M‘Lean has gratified a
temperance deputation by telling them that he
has never taken a glass of ‘ ‘ a-ardent speerits m
his life.
“ H.” : In about a year past, I have heard
all the noteworthy Melb. and suburban preachers.
Young Albiston, the Wesleyan, is the best. Next
comes Carey, the new tenant of Colhns-street
Baptist Church pulpit.
Dr. Du Moulin, who died last week at
Dubbo, was originally a clerk in Sydney Mint.
He studied medicine in after hours at the Uni-
versity, completing his course in Scotland. The
Du Moulin family runs back to the early days of
N.S.W.
War correspondent Majah Reay flatly
contradicts “Smiler” Hales’s circumstantial ac-
count of how he and Larnbie recklessly galloped
off and refused to surrender to the Boers, who
shot the Age man. “Smiler” was always a pic-
turesque writer.
It’s an ill-wind, &c., and if the S’African
war has no other consequences it
will supply R. S. Smythe with a
now crop of celebrities for the Aus-
tralian lecture-market. Apropos,
the “Much-Travelled” was the first
showman to cross the Orange River,
which he did with his co. in an ox-
waggon. The co. consisted of the
. late Horace Poussard, violinist,
and a couple of lady vocalists.
They camped out frequently,
and Smythe and Poussard
slept on the box while the
ladies occupied the interior of
the caravan. One night a
lion rushed the oxen (or ought
to have rushed them for the pur-
poses of this story), and the
two gentlemen, startled,
jumped hastily off the box,
and the waggon, relieved of
their weight, tipped the
ladies out on to the veldt,
or stoep, or kopje, or
whatever it was. The
trip was a successful
one, and Oom Smythe
returned with a big
cheque.
London To-
Day alleges that,
among the very
few British officers
who served with
the French in the
disastrous Franco-
German war, was
Lord Kitchener. At
that time the future
head-hunter was an .ex-
cadet of the Royal
Military Academy at
Woolwich, and while wait-
ing for a permanent position
with the Royal Engineers be
put in his spare time by ser-
ving under an assumed name
with General Chanzy.
Which was a fiw, exciting
holiday, if somewhat risky,
for to follow Chanzy was
very like storming the gates
of perdition. By the way,
another comradeof Chanzy’s
was Australia’s old friend
General Feilding, who was a
friend of the dashing Gaul and
possessed his entire confidence.
Chief Justice Madden, despite his
many judicial eccentricities, invariably
treats the amalgam (lawyer who practices
both »s solicitor and barrister) with the
same courtesy as the lily-white barrister.
Winch cannot be said of all the Vie.
Supreme Court Judges. Old Judge Redmond
Barry was probably the greatest stickler for the
etiquette of the Bar ever seen in Australia. When-
ever a barrister and a solicitor visited him in
Chambers, Barry would hand a chair to the bar-
rister and allow the solicitor to remain standing
during the proceedings.
It is said that Mergenthaler, whose lino-
type invention has brought riches to so many
others (and poverty to yet more!) died recently
at Baltimore in absolute want.
The main opponent of woman-suffrage in
N.ti.W. Cabinet is Minister Crick. You never
yet saw a masterful man, and one fond of horses,
who believed in petticoat government of any sort.
When Acting-County Court Judge John-
ston (Vic.) went to London in ’77 to complete his
legal studies, the ingenious youth surprised the
tavern barmaids by his invariable custom of ask-
ing for “a glass of English ale.” “ What other sort
do you think we keep, old chappie ? ” was Flossie’s
usual response.
Premier Holder of S.A. is stated to have
waived his ambition to be the first treasurer in a
Federal Govt, and to now have fixed his gaze on
the Inter-State Commission of which he desires to
become a member. If not the more lucrative
position it is the more permanent and Holder
usually keeps the main chance in view.
Premier Dawson’s portrait has been re-
luctantly suspended along with that of the other
Queensland Premiers in the Executive Council
room at Brisbane. The local Fatman wanted to
leave him out, just as British legal authorities
leave out Cromwell and call the laws passed in his
time laws of Charles 11. But Dawson, short as
his term might be, was a real Premier, while a
good many others were only shadows.
Died recently at Auckland, M‘Queen,
chief engineer of s.s. Waihora, better known as
“ Coo-ee ” M‘Queen, from his habit of always
calling a man to him with the Australian bush-
signal. On one occasion a fireman, looking for a
job, addressed him as “Mr. M‘Queen.” “ Ay,
ay, mon,”said Mac, “it’s work ye’ll be wanting,
wi’ yir ‘ Maister M‘Queen’; but, if I gie ye it,
I’ll juist be dommed Auld Cooee to ye.”
HIS TROUBLES.
HE : “ Yes—ah—to he sure. This war business
makes one feel the responsibilities of Empiah—
don’t you know.”
The retirement of Varney Parkes from
N.ti.W. Assembly leaves that body unrepre-
sented, except in the person of B. R. Wise,
by the son of any previous member. Frank Far-
n'ell and others hover about th§. door, but hear the
cry “not yet.” No descendant of Wentworth,
Robertson, Martin, or Dailey, or of Foster or
Cowper, sits in the Assembly.
One ex-M.L.C. who was beaten in S.A.
lately—he was running for a bucolic constituency—
ascribes his defeat partly to the fact that he bears
the same name as the man whose signature is at-
tached to all the taxation-notices. And that ex-
perience is all the more cruel because this particular
M.L.C. has been one of the tartest critics of the
province’s Taxation Department methods.
John Joseph Murphy, the
Jingo and poetic rival to Pur-
tell, Fitz Gibbon, Carrington,
and the late Zachariah Sutcliffe,
. and whose pome anent the
“Almighty on His own” was
recently quoted in The Bulle-
tin, has his own opinion of a
recent vice-regality of reputed
miserliness. John Joseph h ad,
at the suggestion of sundry
“leg-pullers,” composed an
ode on the landing and recep-
tion of said magnate in Victoria,
and had at some expense got
it printed on silk, &c., for dis-
tribution among the elite of the
street show. He forwarded a
copy to the honored one, and
received a courteous official
letter of thanks. Acting on
the suggestion again of the
“leg-pullers” aforesaid, who
duly expatiated on the wealth
and large-heartedness of the
new Governor, John Joseph
sent in his bill for £3 15s. An
individual “ with a belly like a
tub,” as J.J. explains, called
at his address, and, not finding
him in, left a note asking him
to call at an address in Russell-
street, Melbourne. J.J. went,
and found himself being inter-
rogated as to his name, age,
and so forth. He was surprised,
but meekly submitted ; but
when they came to his religion
he picturesquely protested, and
having been informed that it
was tne Charity Organisation
tioeiety to which he had been
referred, ho told them, in Mur-
phyistic idiom, that he wasn’t
taking any more vice-regality '
of that sort. Ever since lie
has been recommending his
Excellency for first place in
The Bulletin’s moan-man
competition.
R. D. Ireland, Q.C., was
once co-respondent in a divoroe
suit at Melbourne. After an
hour’s badgering in the witness-box, he went into
the robing room and exclaimed “Thank God! I
am now off my oath and can speak the truth.”
Says Lady Randolph Churchill in her
Anglo-Saxon Review :
One would imagine that the Premier of Western Aus-
tralia must feel a good deal of sympathy for President
Kruger and his burghers in the futile struggle they have
been waging against the intrusive mining element.
Just as well that Bigjohn should know what is
thought of him by his aristocratic friends. They
regard him as a small Kruger without the big
Kruger’s fighting capacity. .
Dr. Tyrell, who arrived as C.E. Bishop
of Newcastle (N.ti.W.) in 1847, is dutifully re-
membered by his flock once a year. The balance-
sheet showing how the quarter of a million worth
of property he left the church is getting on re-
ceives close attention, his name is blest, and then
he drops back to his silent grave. The latest
balance weeps with drought. 100,000 sheep have
dwindled to 27,000. But then it crows with joy
at having turned leaseholds into freeholds. The
Tyrell estate now owns 30,000 acres of freehold.
Dr. Tyrell was 32 years a bishop.
The living S.A. knights are most of them
kept humble because Adelaide is a little
1 lace, and most folk of middle age know
all about their origin. Chief-Justice Way
began his study of the law by sweeping
out a solicitor’s office. Speaker Coles was
once a police-trooper ; John Downer’s
father kept a Hindley-street pub. ; John
Colton was long ago known as the “holy
saddler” ; Edwin Smith began life in Australia
as a small ironmonger, afterwards taking to brew-
ing ; and Editor Bonython joined the Advertiser
as a very junior reporter.
The late W. R. Wilson was, in 1879, an
agent at Pt. Augusta S.A., and made a small
fortune out of a land-boom. This, bis second, he
promptly dropped, and he figured asa stone-broke
agent in Adelaide in the early eighties. He then
secured the secretaryship of Barrier Ranges S. M.
Association and went to Silverton, managing the
Day Dawn long ere Broken Hill saw a smelter.
Wilson was one of the promoters of the great
B.H. Cos. and his name is on the original
prospectus. He was always a sportsman, and,
hack in his Pt. Augusta days, he managed the
best meeting ever held in S.A’s. northern capital,
tit. Albans, which stood him £70,000 in purchase
money, must have cost another £50,000 in stocking
alone.
Josiah Henry Syrnon, Q.C., who has been
thundering against Way and Baker for “ back-
door plotting,” retired from South Australian
politics thirteen years ago, after being defeated
for Victoria constituency. The main reason
was a heavy liability incurred as a member of a
big land syndicate. All his co-members had
failed, and Symon could have done the same,' but
he shouldered the liabilities (many thousands),
and paid them off to the last penny. He has had
a remarkably successful Bar career, and has pro-
bably no superior as a criminal lawyer. He is
credited with high Federal ambitions, and his
friends say he will shortly retire from legal prac-
tice. He has an ample private fortune, his vine-
yard at Auldana alone bringing in a handsome
income.
A COMPREHENSIVE HEART.
HE : “ His daughter enjoys a unique place in his
thoughts.”
SHE: “Ah! How is that?”
HE: “She's the only woman he hasn’t wanted to
marry.”
A pathetic feature in the recont S.A.
Council elections was the defeat of Ebenezer Ward,
after 30 years of political life. Originally an actor
(he played with G. V. Brooke) Ward has been in
turn journalist, explorer, merchant and sheen-
farrner. Nearly 40 years ago lie accompanied B.
T. Finniss’ disastrous expedition to the Northern
Territory. J )uring the last 10 years of his political
life Ward was one of the band of Tory obstruc-
tionists in the Council, and his political decease is
mourned only by Fat Man.
New K.C.M.G. Wittenoom, Westralia’s
Agent-General, is practically a new chum in poli-
tics. He is at present under fifty and until a few
years ago devoted all his time to developing
pastoral properties and building up his bank-
account. He entered politics “for diver ion,”
and was made Mines Minister bv Forrest purely
out of regard for his stake in the country. His
appointment as Agent-General was also inspired
bv “diversion.” Wittenoom has only slender
abilities, but doesn’t smoke and rarely d'inks.
Ilis grandfather was the first Westralian Colonial
Chaplain.
Ed. Bulletin. —As a relative of Crown-
Commissioner Grenfell (shot by a robber in ’66),
let me correct some inaccuracies in your recent
account of the occurrence. Grenfell had taken
the reins from the coachman, and, when the two
highwaymen appeared and ordered him to bail-up,
hewhipped-up the horses instead. The robbers
only pursued long enough to fire six shots, the
second of which mortally wounded the Commis-
sioner. I may add that Mr. Grenfell’s son some
years ago endeavored to get Govt, employment in
N.S.W., but without success, though the late Sir
John Robertson obtained for him a money-grant
of £3OO. —Alpha.
“ David G.” : The loss of life among war-
correspondents in S’Africa is out of all proportion
to the value of their work. Their letters are mere
hashes-up of camp gossip, and personal experi-
ences of no public interest. Strange that no
newspaper has thought of engaging an experienced
staff-officer as its correspondent. Hamley’s
letters from the Crimea are far more readable
than Russell’s Times correspondence, and judging
by his “41 years in India,” Roberts would be
worth a Jew’s eye to a newspaper as war-scribe.
Archibald Forbes and his kind are responsible for
more fables and absurdities than anything else.
[And yet the Russian Emperor said of E orbes,
“ Bah ! Skobeloff’s Englishman is the only one of
you who knows anything about war !” —El). B.]


MACONOCHIES
Dainty Foods Obtainable Everywhere.
Fresh Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Herrings in Tomato Sauce
the tastiest dishes during the hot
WEATHER.
No Picnic Complete without Them.
WATSON'S WHISKY.
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
Aboriginalities.
A new god for Victoria! The Melb.
Hegemony Club, a fortuitous collection of unat-
tached Stunners and Drangers of the guerilla red-
democrat persuasion, who conduct proceedings
very successfully without the assistance of chair-
man, officers, objects, or rules, recently took into
consideration the advisableness of evolving a god
to adequately represent Victoria at the present
juncture, with a view to having his liturgy, com-
mandments, &c., duly presented to and repre-
sented in the Bible-in-State Schools commission
now brooding. Although motions are forbidden
in the club, there was an inclination, seeing, as
one member put it, that motion is an essential
element in the creation of a god, to move one in
the circumstances. His heresy was not persisted
in, however; but .approval was secured by the
unanimous howl which greeted the announcement
of the name of the new deity—Croajing'o !
* * • •
Luck ! Two years ago, thinking the bad
seasons had run their course, one of the best-
known of far-western N.S.W. squatters bought an
old-established run adjoining his own from the
Union Bank. But, instead of changing for the
better, next season was worse than ever ; and the
squatter had to drop his purchase and his deposit,
and return to worse slavery than ever on his own
holding. A few months 'before last shearing a
comparative new-chum at the business- a city
tradesman—took the same station on spec. First
the price of wool jumped about 50 per cent., then
the price of sheep jumped about (JO per cent., and
now good rains have come. Already the new-
chum is practically on velvet.
* * « *
Dear Bulletin.— Harry Stockdale’s state-
ment (B. 26/5/’00) about the distance from each
other of the climbing-notches cut by the blacks in
trees should, read “4 to sft.”—not inches. By the
way, the Wide Bay (Q.) blacks used to put a vine
round the tree and hold on to it with one hand
while the toe-notch was cut with two blows of the
tomahawk. Both hands were used to hold the
vine when the body was jerked forward in stepping
to a higher notch, the tomahawk being then held
in the mouth.—W.T.
“ Pelican ” on same subject :
Harry Stockdale (B. f 26/5/’00) cannot have been a close
observer of the aboriginal tree-climbing process. I have,
as a lad, climbed many trees in this way, and have seen
many other white lads do the same. You don’t “ stub ”
your toe direct into the step ; you put it so that the
length of the toe shall be in the length of the cut. More-
over, in tree-climbing by black or white, steps are not cut
at four or five-inch intervals, but at from 2ft. Oin. up-
wards, according to length of leg. Lastly, no man, black
or white, without aid of vine or line, can climb a straight
cylindrical tree if its diameter be too big and there are no
projections to get a purchase with whilst you “hang
back” to cut forward or higher step.
MISS LALLA MIRANDA, the latest operatic prima donna
from Australia.
“WM.F.”: The pace of the emu (in-
quired about in B. 12/5/’00) depends entirely on
condition. Start him slowly for a quarter or half-
a-mile, in a good season, and he’ll take you three
miles or so, even though well-mounted, bub bustle
him at first, and any ordinary cuddy can catch
him. In drought-time, emus are easily settled.
Writer, with other boys, in ’BB drought, used to
down them on foot. As to ’roo’s jumping-powers.
I have known a big “old-man’’get over a 12ft.
trapyard, though not quite cleanly; and I once
saw a blue-flyer, standing side-on to a 4ft. fence,
clear it beautifully, with about 6in. to spare.
Sometimes, an “old-man” will jump on to a top-
rail fence and off again, as a dog does.
A flooded-out Gippsland village-settier
caused a sensation in Melbourne one recent Sun-
day by “ trekking ” through the suburbs in the
middle of the afternoon, when most of the in-
habitants were abroad. The procession com-
menced with a small mob of dairy-cattle, driven
hy the grandfather on a broken-winded moke
and a small girl on a shaggy pony. Then
came the father, driving a two-wheeled dray
containing the household furniture, topped
by a crate of protesting poultry; and the
cavalcade was brought up by them o-'her
and three small youngsters in a cam as-
covered buggy. The house-father
told the present writer that
he had given village - settle-
ments best, after six years’
hard graft, and was making
for Gisborne. Go on the land,
young man ! —and if you go as
a village-settler, on 10 acres,
you’ll come off it with a loud bang !
“ Yang A.” : Re carnivor-
ous plants. (B. 28/4/’00 and 26/5/’00).
Have myself found abundance at Nation-
al Park, N.S.W., a flat, hairy
plant—about 4in. in dia. and
much like the common stone-crop
—which, when a piece of raw
beef was placed on the junction-
point of leaves and stem, would
curl closely round the meat. The
time at my disposal did not allow of my
ascertaining whether assimilation took place
thereafter, but I know also of certain Malayan
plants, of the arum and ealadium stamp, which
closo suddenly upon unwary insects, and seem,
thereafter, to absorb their juices. Whether or not
the nepenthes (pitcher-plants) are carnivorous is
disputable, some observers holding that the insects
commonly found in the nepenthean are simply
cases of accidental drowning.
* * *
“ Flein.” : fie shags and pelicans.
Have watched perhaps a hundred
shags followed by half-a-dozen
pelicans, and whenever a shag
appeared with a fish he was-
rushed by two or three grunting
pelicans. If the fish was too big
for the shag to swallow at a
gulp the enemy ofton secured it.
Despite “Wooli’s” statement (B.
12/5/’00) I never saw shags relieve a pelican of his
catch.
“Pelican”: Though fish may possibly
bear the report of a gun ere the shot reaches the
water, they do not have time to “get.” lfnvo
“potted” plenty of mullet, sometimes with the
actual shot-charge, <jnd sometimes (at short range)
apparently through temporary stunning by the
impact of the charge upon the water. In fish-
shooting, by the way, refraction must bo allowed
for, so that if you fire at a single fish specimen
about bin. your side of him i < the spot to aim at.
“ Louis M.” on the
ox-conducting industry :
lie “ A.A.A.’s ’•bull-
punchers” (11., 6/5/’00). If
there is a bull in a team he
will be a “leader” or a
“poler,” and these, as a
rule, are not flogged as are
the “ body ” beasts. “ Lead-
ers ” or “polers” wanting
whip or “ belting over ”
require too much blanky—
even for a “puncher.” As
for the dog, if he is no good
he is tied under the waggon,
certainly (and the test
place for him), but if lie’s a
sagacious animal, he is loose,
and saves his master much
labor and profanity by at-
tending to the “off side”
and bringing on the spare
bullocks. The horse, also,
lifts himself to blame for his
neck-stretching. If he “ fol-
lows ” freely he has his
liberty and may chance on
a mouthful of grass ooca-
siona'ly as a reward for his
goi-l sense, but if he is a
bridle - breaker, or, when
free, “ makes l ack,” he
necessarily suffers accord-
ingly. As for watering and
feeding, it is an undertaking
to inspan most teams, and
to specially outspan for
watering is not to be
thought of, unless you have
half a day to spare for in-
spanning again. Feeding is
rarely neglected, for the
simple reason that a bullock
won't last long unless he is
fed. ’ To carry feed for them
(on anything worth calling
a trip) is out of the ques-
tion. They are too slow.
(Horse-teams, averaging 30
to 35 miles to the 24 hours,
may manage to carry their
own tucker, and then it
barely pays.) In bad times
(i.e., nearly always) there
is a “ cutter ” on ahead fall-
ing the night’s feed of scrub.
If, however, there is grass
(no matter whose) within
five miles of the camp the
bullocks will be put on it.
Trust the average “ puncher ” for that. The “ puncher ”
is more to be pitied than condemned. His life is one of
positive slavery and every man’s hand is against
him, from the officious “ boundary-rider ” to the bowel-
less “agent” who has a lien on his turn-out and “con-
tracts ”at starvation rates. His work is never at an end.
Nights on nights, after a 15-hour day of soul-killing toil
and blasphemy, must he be wakeful, guarding his tres-
passing stock on grass, snatching, perhaps, a couple of
hours of dream-tortured recumbency (can’t call it sleep)
to fortify himself against further labors. Hough tucker,
hard work, and bullocks, make sufficient excuse for any
man’s cursefulness and partial brutality, even without
such trimmings as dust, bog-flies, mosquitoes, bad horse,
useless dog (or good dog poisoned). “ Wot’s wrong?” a
“puncher” once replied tome. “ Ev’rything’s wrong !
Look’ere—yer see that bag ? Wull 1 I’d like ter ’ave all
creation in that —an’ then ’ook on ter it with this blanky
axe ! ” And that’s how they generally feel, poor beggars!
As to the “puncher’s” invariable answer to expostula-
tions, “ These bullocks is mine." It’s true —and hard
luck—and he has to work them, which is worse luck !
* * » »
“Xer”: There is nothing in the notion
that bush-fires are often started by sparks from
pipes. You can’t light grass with the whole con-
tents of a glowing pipe. Have often seen the
thing fruitlessly tried, but rotten cow-dung will
light all right from a spark.
IN “PUSH
SOCIETY
SHE (with ad
miration): “Buys
O'Mara always dresses well, don’t he?”
On Queen’s Birthday, at Bora Creek Ath-
letic sports, a noted identity contested the chief
event of the day. It was “ Thunderbolt’s boy.’’
Bill is getting an old man now, but he often tells
of the days of his youth, and still posseses an affec-
tion for the bushranger, who, by the way, is still
represented in the land of the living by relatives
in one or two big Northern towns.
• * * *
One of the joys of the people who travel
by coach in the N.S.W. Far West lies in
the fact that prisoners from out-lying places
are conveyed by Cobb’s vehicle to distant gaols.
These offenders, being aggravated at what has
happened to them, frequently pour out a continual
stream of blanky and other adjectives all the way,
and lady passengers especially complain that two
or three days of continual blanky, added to flies,
dust, and the long procession of cow-skeletons and
bogged bulls, get3 oh their nerves. They
want to know, therefore, if the constable in charge
can’t make the defendant use bettor language, or,
failing that, if ho can’t go on camel-back.
* * * •
“C.H.R.”: Preservation of telegraph-
poles from ants. My idea : Bore a hole in top of
pole 12in. deep with inch augur. Fill up with
kerosene and plug. Then stand pole up.
“ Herb. F.” : The theory that
tree-branches lean to the sun, or that
tho wind of the wood is regulated by
solar influence, goes flop in the first
bush looked at. The only rule that
seems to hold is that an exposed
tree leans fiom the prevailing wind.
Along the coast this is plain. In
the bush each tree just grows pro-
miscuoudy and shapes to any open-
ing available. Most trees in this part
wind a.l ways and both ways together,
and wdlit 60 wedges and the adjectives
of three bullockies to burst ’em.
Dear Bulletin. —The “gang-gang”
parrot (“ T.G.T.,” B. 19/o/’00) is, as far as 1 know,
only found in the S. Gippsland mountains. Have
seen swarms of them up Blackwarry mountains,
where they’re known as the “yan-yean,” and
“native cardinal.” Seldom seen by day, but
shortly after sundown they fly seaward across the
mountains in flocks, their grating, creaking cry
being heard at great distances. Have only once
seen a perched yan-yean, and have vainly sought
information about their nests and mode of breed-
ing.—6 xB.
• • * a
“ Canip ” : Catching cerafodus (lung-fish)
in the Mary River, Q., I find they are extremely
sensitive in mouth ; prick of hook and slight strain
of line causes them to swim right up to your feet.
The mouth also tears if you attempt to lift the
fish out with the line. The largest l have caught
weighed lGlbs., scales size of half-crown, dark-
grey in colour, with white spot near centre, belly
pink. Some of my captures lived 12 hours out
of the water, giving all the time occasional grunts.
“ VV.M.F.” : Re the emu’s swimming-
powers. When I was a youngster, I was given a
young emu, and was told it could swim, but was
doubtful enough to try. First scene : Youngster
on bank of lagoon, putting emu chick into the
water. Second scene : Lamenting voungster
watching emu chick strike out gamely for the
other side and make off over the plain.
* * * *
“ Pelican ” : In proof that crows and
cockatoos can count up to 3, let three men with
guns separate and try so to take advantage of
cover that, whichever way the birds fly, one of the
three will be within range. Result : Birds won’t
wait for near approach, but neither will they fly
within reach of any of the guns. But let four
men act in the same wayand, though again the
birds won’t wait, their line of flight will probably
bring them with range of two or more guns.
“ L.O.” : Lane and I were inspecting
Martin’s selection, and, of course, were invited to
dinner. “By jove, 'that lamb was tender,”
said I, afterwards, “but it had a very
soapy taste.” “That’s just what I
thought,” replied Lane, “it must
have been boiled in a soapy pot."’
Later on, one of the youngsters, who
bad been crowded out from the
table, asked us, “How did yers
like the kid ? ” “ Which * kid ’ ? ”
“ Why the kid yer’ve just
eat; I shot it on the
mountain for yers.” It
was our first, and we
then had quite a bad
quarter of an hour.
Have had many a good
one since over the
same kind of dish.
Dear Bulletin.—
Re “ twist ” of tree-
stems (“Broad-axe,”
B., 19/5/’00). None of
your correspondents
seem to be aware that
the “wind” found in
timber-trees is but an
imperfect development
of the tendency in aU
plant-stems to turn in
succession to every
point of the compass —
which tendency is com-
pletely fulfilled only in
the plants (such as cam-
pan ulaj, which climb by
winding round and round
a support.— Alex. M.
“Eller”: Have often
seen emus swim across a river
to evade capture. The emu,
by-the-way, is a most inquisi-
tive bird. If you leave your
bush-camp, and emus are
about, you are nearly sure
on return to find some making
a “domiciliary investiga-
tion.” I fired at half-a-dozen
once, and after running a
couple of hundred yards, they
returned to find out what it was all about.
“ Camp ” : Plenty of crocodiles in fresh-
water lagoons about Gilbert River and other
parts of Q. Gulf country. They grow to about
6ft. long, live on fish, and are reputed harmless to
animals. At any rate, men bathe in holes' full of
them with perfeot impunity.
• • • ■
“ Ceriso ” : Re the water-hyacinth, (8.,
19/5/’00) following is from Windsor Magazine :
Asa rule the plant simply floats on the surface without
any attachment of the roots to the soil, and under these
conditions flourishes more luxuriantly. In many cases
the roots grow to a length of 3ft. In 1800 the plant first
appeared in St. John’s River (Florida), which it now in-
fests for a distance of over 200 miles, the hanks on either
side being fringed with a border varying from 26 to 200 ft.
in width, while it is estimated that over 100 miles of
coast line are affected.
The growth, it is added, interferes seriously with
the steam traffic, and has almost ruined the local
timber industry by preventing the rafting of the
logs down river, 'iue fishing industry, too, has
been damaged. Various schemes have been ad-
vanced for exterminating the plant, but it is gene-
rally accepted that its complete banishment is
impossible. One suggestion is the arrangement
of two booms in such a way that the plants tra-
velling with the current strike a deflecting boom
The above is cut from an advt. in a religious
journal ( Sydney Catholic Press,). It goes
to show the straits to which a holy organ
may be driven in order to make a crust in
the year 1900.
and round the boom at the end. As the course of
the current has been diverted by the collecting
boom the plants are arrested by the latter and
brought to a standstill. They can then be re-
moved from the river to be burned or otherwise
destroyed. Strange to say, this hyacinth is killed
directly it comes into contact with salt water or
other impurities, and it has been suggested that
destructive substances should be placed in the
water. Another suggestion was the introduction
of a certain parasite fungus, which attacks the
leaves in spots, and in time completely kills the
growth.


£2
'4
/
*
&
I
LADY’S.
In Oxydised Case ..
In Solid Silver Case
In 14-carat Silver Case
In 18-carat Gold Case
£2 0 0
2 10 0
5 5 0
6 6 0
Gentlemen’s Sizes are Less.
Fx&R” WATCHES
THE movements are on the Lever principle.
THEY have Brequet overcoil balance springs.
THEY are jewelled in 10 holes.
THEY have compensated and adjusted balances.
THEY have jewel ruby rollers.
THEY are made in every style of case.
THEY are stem-winders.
THEY have opal enamel dials.
KW These Watches go to within a minute a month, stand HARD
riding and knocking about, and last a life-time. We keep them in
order for (2) two years (breakages excepted), and guarantee them for
15 years.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Vice-Regal Jewellers, 23 Hunter-st., Sydney.
When you treat, a friend do not offer him
anything counterfeit. Helidon Spa has many
imitators, but none possess the valuable properties
which have won for it the public’s approbation.*
Mr. James Mooney.
THE CLEVER DANCER INTERVIEWED.
Mr. James Mooney, of Mr. Harry Rickards’
Variety Co., occupies, by reason of Kis clever
dancing and tuneful songs, a leading position
upon the Australian variety stage.
“It was whilst in Perth,” said lie, “that most
of our Company were stricken down with typhoid,
several of the poor follows dying. My turn
seemed next. 1 began to feel dull and listless.
Then I rapidly became weak, burning headaches
attacked me, together with pains in the limbs and
back. I became feverish and my skin parched
and hot. My mental faculties partially failed me
and I could not give mv turn at night with
satisfaction to myself. 1 had medical treatment,
but the relief obtained was only temporary. I
was in this terrible state when I was urged to try
Dr. Williams’ pink pills, as they were said to
effectually ward off typhoid. I did so, and even
a few doses benefited me. I continued with them
and my improvement day by day was remarked
upon by friends. In a short time I was in perfect
health again. Typhoid was effectually warded off
and all its symptoms had disappeared. In fact,
I was brighter and Stronger than before my
illness.”
Those in a weak state of health are most
generally liable to epidemic fevers, plague, etc.
In maintaining perfect health and thus enabling
the system to resist such ailments, Dr. Williams’
pink pills, are unrivalled. Their tonic action on
the blood and nerves removes the foundation of
disease, enriches the blood, tones up the nerves,
and strengthens the brain and spine. They have
cured many cases of rheumatism, neuralgia,
sciatica, consumption, chronic dysentery, anaemia,
debility, weak heart, bronchitis, rickets, scrofula,
locomotor ataxia, paralysis, etc. Sold by the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place, Sydney,
two and nine per box, six boxes fifteen and three,
and by chemists and storekeepers—But mind you
ask for Dr. Williams’. Mr. Mooney is at present
a member of Mr. Harry Rickard’s Variety
Company.*
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Dear Bulletin.— This is our trouble at
Dannevirke (M.L.). The relief of Mafeking yas
celebrated here for several days by the prolonged
blowing of the steam-whistles at all the adjacent
saw-mills—and they are many. Everybody was
expected to throw his hat in the air and cheer for
the Queen and 8.-Powell every time the whistles
crave a fresh toot-if he didn’t, he was a loathsome
rebel, and hated accordingly. The whistles also
blow four times a day when there is no relief to
start work, knock-off for dinner, start again, and
to dry-up for the night. And now the mere
casual visitor doesn’t know whether to throw up
his hat and cry “ ’Rah for Baden-Powell when a
whistle goes or not. I didn’t do it once, thinking
it was only the dinner-whistle, and my hat was
smashed. Next day, when the dinner-whistle
went, I called for three cheers for the Queen, and
a policeman threatened to run me in for being
drunk. Day after, they blew for the capture of
Johannesburg, and I thought it was the dinner-
whistle again, and my hat was seized and thrown
wer a house. —Yours, A. Sloper.
• ♦ • *
A North Auckland (M.L.) gum-digger was
lately before the Supreme Court for ill-using his
wife and children. He used to make the old
woman go out gum-digging all day and then stop
up at night scraping the gum she had dug. He
meanwhile lay in bed, getting out every now and
then to kick her. He had several times broken
his children’s limbs, and set the hones himself.
Such a collection of deformities as these unfor-
tunate youngsters had never been seen in court.
When asked why sentence should not be passed
he coolly observed, “Well, judge, I think you
might give me a chance for the sake of ma kids.”
• • * •
“ E. 0.” : Re the military use of pigeons,
the experience of the present war goes to prove
that before a pigeon-service can be relied upon the
birds must first have had a thorough special train-
ing. A common misapprehension is that the
“carrier” is the variety most used for message
purjxises ; but the so-called “ carrier ” is merely a
show variety of the true message-bird, the Ant-
werp.
* * * *
“J.W.C.” writes:
Your par re wild blacks (l!)/f>/’00) is incorrect in some
details. The name of the original blackfellow was Nania,
and the place where he killed the other blackfellow is
Popiltah on the Ana Branch—not Poolamacca. Nania,
with his party, went out on to the Scotia Blocks, and
lived there until some of the local blacks raided his camp
and took away the two boys. The party then shifted
further west, on to the unstocked country between Salt
Creek on the Murray and the Burra Burra. They used to
get their water, iti dry times, from mallee-roots—not from
mulga, of which there is none in that district. Nania’s
party was never known to kill any sheep on the out-back
paddocks of theN.W. Bend, although their tracks were
often seen along the boundary-fences. They lived on
kangaroo, emu, goanna, etc.
* * * *
“Wer”: On many cattle-stations on the
Clarence and Richmond Rivers all lumpy, can-
cerous, and other diseased cattle are—or were a.
few years ago—known as pig-meaters. They were
sold cheap to local butchers, and how much the
pigs got and how much was turned into “ rump-
steak ” it would be hard to say.
* • * *
“ Wcrrimee ” : In answer to “ Wil.” (8.,
12/5/’00), galahs and carellas mostly strip the bark
off the limbs in which they have their nests, a
little way above and below the entrance, for no
special reason b.eyond the parrot inclination to be
continually beaking something.
On the
gang-gang
question.—
Dear Bullb-
tin'. — lie, gang-
gangs (“ T. G.
' F.,”8. 19 5/’00).
I have seen
these parrots in
Shoalhaven dis-
trict. They are
somewhat lar-
ger than the
galah, and are
slatey-black in
color, the male
being adorned
with a crimson
crest. They
much resemble
the black cock-
atoo in appear-
ance, voice, and
habit, and are
very shy and
hard to shoot.
—T.F.K.
Tocsin: Re
the gang-gang
parrot. I have
never seen this
shy bird except
in the Upper
Murray district
of Victoria,
among theßen-
ambra Moun-
tains. They
frequent prin-
cipally loftily-
timbered river-
flats, and I
have never seen
' them on the
ground, either
in a crop or
elsewhere. I
have neverseen
more than a
dozen together.
They have- a
spasmodic kind
of flight, rising and falling like butterflies, and have so
much feather that though outwardly as large as pigeons,
they are, when plucked, scarcely bigger than sparrows.
L.G. : The home of the gang-gang parrot is the higher
parts of the Blue Mountains, between Lithgow and the
head of the Grose River. The male bird is the size of a
cockatoo and has a big red top-knot \ color, a slatey-
trrey‘ ....
“ W.J.” : Some canaries can imitate other
birds’ voices. Writer knows of one that has learnt
to imitate a rosella remarkably well.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficient j
stamped. Name and address must.appear on M.J.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
\
O.A. : If you run your etymology on those
lines you can go on to argue that as Fitz
means "son of” and Gibbon means “monkey,”
Fitzgibbon means “ the son of a monkey,” and that only.
H. O.: Returned F. H. : Returned gladly
H.L.: Returned with sincere enthusiasm E. F. N. :
“ May God in mercy cast His eyes On this land sore dis-
tress” —Where rhymsters rise like butchers’ flies Ere
falling to their rest E.M.D. : “ For kindly Death had
called him to the rest of Eternal Night.” Please give
authority for this personification of your poem.... J.W.D.:
Verse with explanatory footnotes is an abomination. Your
verse is five-sixths of an abomination without footnotes
W.L.B. : The jury recommended Schnavel to mercy, and
the life of the prisoner should in such a case be always
absolutely at the disposal of the jury. It makes a jury
careful when it knows that its decision is practically the
last word in a matter of life or death. To invariably
give effect to a jury’s wish is the only way
to make jurymen feel their responsibility. The last
N.S.W. Ministry never disregarded a jury’s
recommendation and Tub Bulletin hopes that this one
never will either Gobung : Well, those verses are just
passable, and it would kill any paper to constantly print
things that were only just passable. Only tackle good
ideas; write less and polish more A.B. : The fall of
Lucknow would have meant assassination to all the men
and worse to all the women. Newspaper exaggeration is
an old game. Anyway it puts the pennies in the slot
Enos : To begin with, that imitation of the labels of
Clarke & Co., of Calcutta, is a glaring swindle. Present
writer has himself been taken in by it.... Rats : The firm
publicly makes certain statements; if those statements
are true then we take off our hat to it. If they aren’t,
whv not say where the fly in the ointment is?... .C.E.P. ;
Victoria, we believe, has had four R.C. Premiers Duffy,
O’Shannassy, O’Loghlen and McLean ; N.S.W. one—
Jennings; and Queensland one —Byrnes..... .Collalo :
“The Bulletin always destroys—never builds.” Yet,
which Australian paper did more constructive work for
Federation than The Bulletin ? .. .Retrorsum : A useless
discussion, for in future N.S.W. Govt, will subsidise
neither of the two rival Sydney Art Societies. That has
been officially announced O.G. : Bloemfontein,
although the former capital of the Orange
Free State, is, really, a British settlement; nearly
all the business houses are run by Britishers
B. Bluey : A rather brutal yarn about a "skin ’’ and a
" blasted as 3” and a cove who " got the nark and a
bloke who "flew into a stink.”....W.J. (Donald)
finished yarn. What were the lines on the other side t
John R. : Life is short, and dreamy screeds about
nothing in particular are very long 11.J.M. (Fre-
mantle) : If A and B, who are not related, marry two sis-
ters, B becomes Mrs. A’s brother-in-law and A is Mrs.
B’s brother-in-law, but there is no relationship between
Mr A and Mr. B. They are often called brothers-in-law,
but they aren’t.... Barkis : The grievance might be a
good deal plainer... .L.F. : One good anyhow, but the
stamp yarn and the J.P. yarn are old Bulletin items....
BM : “City Scenes during the War” declined with
great thud.... Pandora : We opened Pandora’s box
but there was Bosh at the bottom —not Hope....
A.G.A. (Sydney): Of course the A.M.P. policy-holders
who want to oppose the dangerous policy of extending
the business to London must put up the money them-
selves for the necessary organisation. The Board doesn t
need to. It uses the policy-holders’ fnoney to urge-on
the fad which the policy-holders have so consistently
negatived. This ought to be called misappropriation,but it
isn’t... .F.T. : Your faint little joggle about the mighty
deep is incongruous. It needs a bigger man to tackle the
mighty deep.... Belyando : There is no longer any par-
ticular mystery about the Gatton murders.
There is a perfectly coherent theory, supported
by hard facts, to account for that tragedy.
MARS AND VENUS.
GINGER: “ Any decent bloke ain’t not no chance 'nowadays against anything in
uniform; en if yer arsk ’im out an’ break ’is fore yer gits mobbed fer
being a Boer.”
Maisie S. : Same old dying woman with a past
as her only asset Sans Reproche : Not clever and not
pleasant..'..The Visionary: Don’t like widows who
drink. A sohjr widow may pass if she is young and
prettv and diesn’t talk about her first husband
Will J. : You don’t quite “ get there ” with either prose
or verse Roughrider : “ Dickens,” sort of crude essay
in cruder verse J.W.D. : Story too long and lean
J.G.L. : Humorous, but shapeless 11.C.G. : Tom
Moore-and-water Louis M. : “A Humor” has some
good lines, but, on the whole, is short of the mark....
H.S.B. : Pretty little story on regulation lines Cobar :
FANCY MEETING YOU!
CONVERTED JANE: “ Gracious, that yon, Bill? How ever did they come, to let you up here?”
BILL THE SLOGGER: “ Oh, killin' some Boers.”
“Dream,’’ a “possible.” Other, ridiculous....Ne’er-do-
weel : Well; you'll have to do a little hotter than that.
anyhow... .Cigaro ; The humor will h irdly carry them....
0.A.8. : Again—what on earrii have the teapots to do
with the story?....!’. Page (U): Quito unsuitable
Investigation (O’maine): Write to lion. Dr. Oreed,
M.L.0., Sydney, and he will tell you. (2) We know
nothing of the man in question... .S..S. : Hut therenvere
reasonable grounds for the adjustment of those artesian
well cases, anyhow. For one thing, the Land LI >ard
Chairman, who was to have dealt with the cases had just
been compelled to leave the bench and go into ho pital
with typhoid V. K. : “ Her Penalty ” kept for illustra-
tion. Can you send another copy of the verses < n piired
for? “ Last A?" G.L.M.: Will serve as a suggestion.
... .Zadigl.: Faintand feeble Olenira: Promising;hut
performance not yet up lt.C. : None tip LA.F. :
Too juvenile for reprint... Derelict : You possess a kind
of Tyson’s-estate of incapacity It.LI.H. : We moan—
simply moan C. J : Comments all quite true, hut we
can’t take the responsibility of saying that the departed
gentleman really did steal the money.... C. II.: No re-
mark strikes lis. In fact, it isn’t worth remark
Bitcha: Valueless Quilp N. : Possibly Douglas:
Venerable yarn in thin disguise... .Oil Guy : Hardly up.
~. .Charlecote : Could scarcely print a pictorial treat-
ment of that recent unfortunate happening—Raina :
Nothing in it hut conventionally-pretty word-painting.
....Sarah W. : The parody is the best- hut not good
enough at that Mitty : Some quiet merit, but would
need too much re-writing Stroller: May strengthen
ending, and use....R. 0. S. S. : Some lyrical gift, hut
otherwise hardly up to mark....F. W. II.: Mediocre
0n1y....A. A.: “Boundary Rider” jingles fairly well,
and that’s a 11... Uobung : “ Bluggins,” a little too
“ strong,” in one sense, and not strong enough. in another.
“Rats,” may trim and use Miss 8.8. (Melbourne):
Nearly gets there, but rather slight. Try again....
C.P.B. : “ Notwithstanding” flat and dull and full of less
than nothing Liber : Only one small episode in a large
garish drunk M. Bryo : Humorously indecent
Louis Mr.: Won’t d 0.... Bernardine: No-force' llemm :
Don’t care for subject or treatment; try again on a
brighter theme Quilp N. : Work promises well; lut
take more pains to perfect rhymes and metres A.J. :
Sorry, but anagrams are an abomination X.L. : But
thev don’t x-I—quite the contrary Violette : Your
para, don’t hit us. If by “ selected 1 ” poems you
mean unoriginal—most emphatically—no! A.J.H. :
Another contributor was before you with the gate yarn.
Vril : The “ ant-lion’s ” proceedings are a common-
place of zoology Taipo : Approximately; weight,
1451 b. ; chest, 35; waist, 32; arm-spread, 67 ; forearm,
101 ; biceps, 121 VV.J. : Why, you answer your own
question by saying that the “ left-handed axeman grips
with the left band nearest the axe-head. A left-hand
billiardist uses the right as “ rest.”... .Will : Have grave
doubts about the truth, despite guarantee. And your
weird spelling of “Papyist” casts a suspicion on your
general knowledge Outcast: Poem cast out Iron-
moulder : If the gentlemen in question would say these
things themselves instead of you doing so for them it
would be more convincing Joke that Failed : Very
long-dragged-out for interest P.Q.R. : May pass....
Boris: Good item. Will use Het Thule: “Mima”
has possibilities but wants too much re-writing. “Trial
of Wits” hasn’t even possibilities Varsity: Already
fully dealt with.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
L.R.B. : Will consider suggestion... .Victor B. : Sorry
unavailable C.W. (Moul.): Will use one LA.P. :
Your work shows excellent artistic feeling; but you
should strive to strengthen your style M‘Gregor : One
or two possible subjects... .J. Mon. (Haw.): Neither
available... .Veno : Too complicated... A.S.M. : One
available as suggestion Plymouth Sound : For indirect
reproduction, perhaps... .W.T.C. : One available....
G.S. : Hopeless... .C.W.K.: Too obviously a bad copy of
Souter ; we don’t want any Souterkins or Souterettes.
Get a style of your own. All very well lo profit by
another man’s style, but it is unpardonable to boldly copy
it....Ruihi (M.ly.): None available, but please note
printed memo, posted ..Sylus: Unsavory subjects and
fcad drawings... .C.F.S. (Melb.): Legend inadmissible—
E.A.L. : Why send drawings that you know perfectly
well could never be printed? Unavailable: Symons
(or something like that). By the way, Why not learn to
draw your own name legibly ?... .Fred A.L., M.J.M.,
Syfous’, T.P., Bert H., L. Green, Miss Max 11., H.A.M.,
S.D.L., all unavailable.
JusTioß-MfNisTKR Wcoo’s circular to N.S.W.
honorary magistrates, requesting the miscellan-
eous crowd to keep off the Bench when any inter-
ested litigant asks them to go on, will no more
purify the administration of justice in the lowor
courts than would a request that each J.P. should
wear flannels in the winter months. The Minis-
ter’s innuendo is, that a J.P. who goes upon the
Bench bocause of being asked by an interested
party gives, or tries to give, a verdict to the
friendly side. Just think of converting an oath-
breaking, justice-prostituting malefactor of that
sort into an irreproachable administrator by a
circular letter of request! That precious JiP.
will get there every time, though circular letters
rained on him. ' The admission that under the
present system of appointing J.’sP. the ad-
ministration of law in the lower courts is
likely to fall into the hands of men needing
such a circular is proof more than ample that the
system should be abolished without an hour’s
delay. Further, the knowledge that such a cir-
cular has been distributed will be used to stultify
its desired effect. A litigant who fears an up-
right J.P. may formally request that J.P. to sit
and then terrify him from sitting by brandishing
the circular in his face. Nothing the Department
of Justice can do will prevent the circular being
turned to this criminal use. Not by Ministerial
exhortation or departmental circular will Justice
be kept pure in N.S.W. lower courts. The whole
system of having cheap and nasty justice adminis-
tered gratis by men who know no law must go.


The Little Boy at Mahly : “ Yes, that’s
Uje sort of cable I want If I have to
haten to lies I don't want ’em to be all
about the House of Lords. I’ll listen
to Duke and Corwboy end draw my
og ° oflf for private use."
AILMENTS FROM PIANO-PLAYING.
“ At Berlin Chirurgical Congress Herr Zabludowski
dealt with the ailments resulting from piano-playing. The
joints got irritated, and where this becomes chronic it spreads
to the nerves, and in some cases to the chest and the back.
The result may be muscle and nerve irritation to a dangerous
extent. As to the treatment, he advises at 6rst massage and
the discontinuance of the piano practice."
The massage should be applied with a club or an axe-handle.
i \
JZ X.
c *> \
« © 1
55 oJS
Pi -c «
I «S° S
®u ® £
< o 5 c
| $ a 0
CS O s - .
H- S i-g
.Sc
Mm jQ Jj
>|3 c 3 §
gll gJ J
»ill r
Q." 3 3
W « " O’ O
in y. _o J£ >*
B Jf' '
S'/
„ vE> \
.AS
m
\ * "V •,
I| B ,
n £ *
.• * .2
* I f K
£ f-* *
£2! S-
, “oq*j :?* s ■
/tffeSf !:/ s
' SS b Sv pg* *
Jo” 6
' t£ *Q<p£*s S
\ffi 1:
j.kA
£///&/
•///////
/
/My
J <oy
jV 5 The war is now quickly
Sfjy.f approaching its end. Kruger
had declared that he would
Y' ; < make the war an instrument
{.V for staggering humanity..
He has succeeded. Even The Bulle-
tin’s Temperance Editor “staggered"
more or less on Mafehing Day.
!• yf Sydney Man
s' “ You see, this is
our Town Hall."
Visitor: “Yes, I see,
I hear, I smell 1 ”
CARTOONLETS.


Tfe
~ til
O < wl
d to ujl
< gy u.l
-i £ t Stl
“■ s > O-J
O Z I
J u- uni
< - - cji
E aZ «?|
uj i 2 i
o K </) b. I
111 KUJ oJ
IL IQ 1
« 3« n
f* cc
a
nttn^vlr
\ /c\ a
J
o
1 0.
W%J&m
JUmBm ExßS®B^^
'S our \
v . N- 8 \
He is 170 f"
Ho Vow Ve
-foKes "Hfe
tyorjej
Noiis
Gold.
\jl
S' °
JfVess All
WV , Wljy. I caJWcl
jf Jublic Sca*7Aal
dfe J>owcv o|" . lt~
CAo't sfyff V ir V
rfqrsfcJl :f )
► I conp3s io vnj di^T?e3s
Bi>V°b iy »vy foe;
V/b cto'tl7 SAy tfA n QJo
1 lyivy 'No', Uoe *
f/Nj\ \\ s\VN ' r V)U*' c °° Vx°'
f/H/\ lt#*fi 0 V t" e asn* 1 A l** 1 Id*
mSSg^SS^
It would bo & very injurious thing to outrago
tno moral sense of tho community by again
gentloraan. I bog to move—
-1 hat tho selection of a professor ot music bo re-
ferred to a selection committee in London, and
tchat a committee bo appointed to draw up a iottor
to tho Agent-General stating the duties of the
professorship the salary, the tonu>e of fiv£
years, what tho conditions of tho tenure are
«c. t and that the present holder of the posi’-
tion is not eligible for re-election.” Dr
Morrison seconded the amendment, which was put!
without further discussion and lost. K
tKei li Cot) "Us ajl *§>l“, *y . ,
*' The facts they had before them were that
three men, apparently honorable, honest, -v
sober and diligent worker*, wore brought to \
task for no crime, not even for what, accord-
ing to Milton, was the libefty of every British
subject, to speak, to utter, and to argue accord-
ing to the conviction of mind and the persua-
sion of conscience, but simply for doingnoth-
ing but attending to their work. These men
simply declined, at the bidding of their fellow
workmen, to begin to sing and to go up in a pro-
oeesion, or to take part in a meeting and sing. . . .
These throe men were foreigners, intelligent and
sober men, and he wished the crowds that thronged .
the streets on that Mafeking Saturday night were
okly half as SOBER and as well doing. Db.
Rbntoul.
__ pr/fcKd
Jfulferfp Would S*West~
Of *// V/e
' Ovi / SenfttftT'.
*Sorr?erflt7<3r S~fy/e
Set?fir os:—, "ffi* .
if your' /efrrhw a p/fife-. A/ow. do jtou JweA?'
'doQert' dyuffi % Df/pd afuvK, & foty/fo dad~afato/f o&
a// occasions of f"?<?o nyo/c/'oqr S
Jobtr A/ief l
Je cf -/dr Oxfys .- —- " dfTr foif/e ,^/e^e . '*
W°tfer '
9/
Wyvi
V/iell J nyuyf'*confess hjzf' I VJ
Jingo Mo tavcKbone '
Rev. # Rentoii^"( v "^«*ol>tavs) ~ \
fW« V-
Xwi 11 ptoav^^tyegTys
, The A;
So utA
i
1 :
Qo'tHe , witfy
>n it! c&si & it,
■•v WeV ? "
rT* S-S.T. (y<Vo
le«i7l;»4 before)
/-Gppn ! oqly
jronj 'fifty
tlo onj it)' 'tfoo|>4 a .
lt?ey <Jti»7K>^e'
V s tHf ■ *■&»
\ "tyey Sci74> u>
\
\reo^"
MELBOURNIANA.


Handsome $ Useful Wedding Presents.
Call and See our Displayed Showrooms.
An Up-to-Date Show.
We lleplate Old Silverware Equal to Aim
A. SAUNDERS.
Jake BASKET, chased, 18s 6d ; plain, 16s 6d.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, £2, and £2 10a.
We guarantee the quality.
Send for illustration.
i
<■
Eingg
SlJ'
if
g*.
~, , . A. SAUNDERS.
UiiNiS EJiIEND," Letter Book, Puro Solid Silver
monnted, 15s, 20s, 255. A Useful Present.
Ruby JAM, 12a 6d and 15s 6d, Pure Silver
plate 1. Guaranteed Quality.
Send for Price Book.
LADIES’ FKIEND.
Pure Silver-mounted, 18s 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral BISCUIT, first-class,
20s, 22s 6d, 255.
LADIES’ FRIEND,
Silver-mounted, 16s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak Biscuit, pure Silver*
plated Mounts, 16s 6d|
Fluted Bands, 20s 2
Shield only, 12s 6a,
m.
FLOWER STANDS.
15s fid pair. .
Other styles, 10s, l‘2s Cd, 20s.
Pure Silver-plated.
COFFEE POT
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Metal Silver-plated BUTTER,
25s ; similar, very neat and pretty
20s, 22s 6d.
Pure Silver Manicure SET, First-clai
20s ; smaller, 12s od.
TEAPOTS.—Pure Silver-plated, First-class, 80s.
Other styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255. Send for Book of Patterns.
Pure Silver-Mounted PURSES, 15a, 20s.
Cheap Styles, ss, 7s 6d, 10s.
Pure Solid Silver PENCILS (Cedar), 3s 6d and 4s 6d.
Old Plate Made Equal to New.
Estimates Given. « Send Your Address.
cloik TEA SET, with Covers, Gilfe bid le, pure
20 Years* Guaranteed.
£2 10t, worth £4 As. Other styles, oos, £2, £3, £4.
Ladles!
KINDLY CALL AND
OUR DIBPLAY.
M
■
'’"re Silver BRUSHES and COMBS, in Silk Case,
£2 lßc Special Value. Send for Illustration.
TEAPOT.
SUGAR, with Cover.
MILK, with Cover.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Electro Silver-plated TEA and COFFEE, £5 6s
Other styles, £4 4s, £6 6s 6d, £8 Bs, £lO 10s. Send for List. ’
ENTREE DISHES, 4 Pieces, Pure Silver-plated, £2 17s 6d
Others charge you £4 4s. TRY A. SAUNDERS.
pai
■
2 Butter KNIVES, Pearl Handle, 15s 6d. Cheaper style,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d. Send for List.
OEUETS—4-bottle Square Bottles, 21s.
Similar, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUETS, 30s, 355, £2. Cheap.
20s, 255. Pure Silver-plated.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated COAL
SCUTTLE, 16s 6d, 20s, 255.
FLOWER STANDS.
Latest Style, 21s paif.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER, as above, 16s Cd ; Large
Size, 20s. Guaranteed Quality.
Pare Silver-plated BUTTER, 8s 6d.
Special Value.
Silver-plated SERVIETTE RINGS, 3s 6d.
Pure Silver, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
Ruby Glass SALTS and SPOON, 10s 6d pair.
Other styles, 6s Od, 8s 6d.
w
A. SAUNDERS.
4 o’clock TEA SPOONS and TONGS, 12s 6d ;
Other Styles, 15s, 20s, 255.
Spoons, without Case, ss, 7s 6d, 10s half-dozen
Pure Solid Silver, in Silk Case, 25s ;
With Tongs, 30s and 355.
A. SAUNDEKB.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, C Bottle Design,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK, 10s (id. Other Styles :
8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s. Pure Silver-plated.
Guaranteed Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hot Water Tea KETTLE, 355;
Embossed, £2. Others charge
£2 10s and £3 for same article.
We Guarantee the Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.—Spoons and Forks—Solid Nickel Silver Table Spoons or Forks,
4s half-dozen ; Dessert, 3s ; Tea, Is Gd. Pure Silver-plate (on Hard White Metal)
Table Spoons and Forks, 12s half-dozen ; Dessert, 10s ; Tea, 5s Gd. 'These are Guar-
anteed to give every satisfaction. Dinner and Dessert Knives, 4s Gd and 9s Gd half-
dozen, the very best Sheffield Steel. TRY THEM.
A. SAUNDERS.—Butter KNIVES, pure Silver-plated, 2s, 3s, 4s
Pearl Handle, 3a (id ; Extra Mounted, 6s 6d.
Jam SPOONS, same price. Two in Case, 7s 6d and 10s.
Hi
A. SAUNDERS.—Pure Silver FRUIT KNIFE, 6s, 7s 6d, 10s.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, Large Size, 82s 6d.
Cheaper Style, 20s, 255.
9
Jeweller $ Silversmith,
815 George Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station,
fiaupfig
BBA.UTIFU3Ii DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.


The Art of Self-Defence.
“ Protection from disease is the art of self-
defence.” Such was the dictum of Sir William
Henry Preece delivered a short time ago to the
Congress of the Sanitary Institute at South-
hampton.
The strongest defence against the approach of
liver disease or weakening or any other breaking
down of the kidneys is Warner’s Safe Cure. It
soon restores health and vigor. It is the old,
reliable, never-failing, household remedy of
Australasia, and you can’t dissuade the thousands
who have used and found it curative, from again |
relying upon it when disease of the kidneys
threatens.
Mr. F. Cecil Simpson, 19 Gordon Street,
Darlinghurst, N.S.W., 28th. Aug., 1898, writes:—
“ I beg to state that I was employed in the East
India Company’s service for many years, and was
invalided home in 1895 suffering severely from
kidney disease and thorough prostration. I con-
sulted the best medical men in London, and
failing to get relief, and the climate being against
me, I decided to come to Sydney. On my voyage
out I first heard of Warner’s Safe Cure, and de-
termined to give it a trial on my arrival in Sydney.
After taking a few bottles I became a new man,
and was ultimately restored to health. I shall
ever feel grateful to the proprietors of this
valuable medicine for the benefit I have derived
from it.”*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock :
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Almost beyond description were the
horrors on board the s.s. Anerley, which recently
put into. Port Phillip after a severe knocking-about
on a voyage down from Newcastle, N.S.W., with
283 bullocks for South Africa. Of these wretched
animals only 65 remained alive; the rest having
been smashed against the fittings on deck, bashed
to death, below, with the vessel’s heavy rolling, or
swept overboard and drowned.
Publications.
SKIN DISEASES
. . AND . .
Their Treatment,
ACNE, ECZEMA, PSORIASIS, Ac.,
By Dr. ALFRED NEALE (M.D., M.8.C.M., Ed.),
Late Physician to Manchester Skin Hospital.
SYDNEY : TURNER and HENDERSON. Post 1/L
THE SECRET SOCIETY, by dr. hodgson, i*
HODGSON’S TALES OF MEDICAL STUDENTS.
All Booksellers and Stationers.
Wholesale : Edwards, Dunlop & Co. Ltd., Syd»
Boolta. Books. Hooka.
"POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
A Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers'
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for 12 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R. W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh streec, Sjdnev.
D
lAMOND SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WOItDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs-ever bound
together between the covers of one book- National
Songs of every country. Including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp, ibis
wonderful book will be sent anywhore for only 2s. 6d., posted
to lOd from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
wiooChambers, 458 Georgestreet, Sydney, N.S.W Stamps id
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for th|s
sod other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when wtltlng
SEND FOK A
BOOK CATALOGUE
oy RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE books.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
• Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
m
r
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
,201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
n
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET "USIS
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BQX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
ARE YOU ABOUT TO FURNISH
You cannot do better than try HALL’S. They have the Largest
Stock in Australasia. Have you got one of our New Catalogues . It
not, call or write for one- Posted Free. 72 Pages, 500 illustrations.
Just Published.
HALL’S
HALL’S
HALL’S
HALL’S
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, in rich Genoa Velvet, with silk plush borders, viz., Settee,
2 Arm Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for 8 Guineas. Thirty Drawing-room Suites to
DINING-ROOM SUITE, very strong, covered in best American Leather; 6 Padded
Back Chairs, Large Couch, and Pair Easy Chairs. 6 Guineas. Ditto, in real Maroo
Leather, 10 Guineas.
TVTCDROOM SUITE, Polished Pine or Walnut Color; Wardrobe, with I late-glass
Door and Deep Drawer ; Duchess Chest Drawers, with Glass attached; Marble-top
Washstand, Towel Rail, and Chair, £6 15s.
FULL-SIZE HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD. Brass FootraU Double. Wire Mattress,
and Set Best Wool Bedding. 4 Guineas. With best Kapok Bedding, £4 Ls. 6d.
A. HALL & COMPANY,
The Universal House Furnishers,
561, 563, 565 & 567 George Street, Sydney
(BRICKFIELD HILL).
- , a , , t7' a rennired Country Orders Packed Free. Leave Tram at Liverpool-
Goods Stored . Wednesdaya> j p . m .
BEAD THIS!
FOB
ASTHMA
AND
CENERAL WEAKNESS
Every Word bears the Imprint of Truth •
28 THORN LEY-STREET, LEICHHARDT, SYDNEY,
May 9th, 1900.
Dear Sira,—lt gives me great pleasuro to write and tell you that your Tonic,
Mighty “ Alok,” has cured me of a long-standing Asthma. I have not had a
spell night or day for 10 years until I took your “Alok,” and I left off smoking.
I was examined by a Professor of Sydney University about three years ago
by my medical advisor’s wish, and I believe from what he told mo I was in-
curable, and all had been done that could be done. I have spent no end of
money on it with patent medicines and doctors, and could not do any work,
but now I can get up half-past 6 in the morning and move about as light as
a child. Mr. Willows (of Willows and Clapham), at the Corner of Hunter-
street, could tell you I havo always been ill, and it will surprise a good many.
Mr. Willows is a neighbor of mine. Now, what I want to know is, what
quantity would you advise for my little girl, 11 years old ? She is very thin,
and not much appetite. As I Intend to still take the mcdicino to keep away
the Asthma until I get thoroughly strong, you would bo doing me a great
favor if you would let me havo it cheaper. I am told that I look better than I
have for years, losing the drawn look and filling out In the face. When I
bought the “Alok” I had no idea of it curing Asthma. I was so run down
with weakness, and the doctor was g?v:ng me tonics, but got no better, and I
tried “ Alok ” to seo if it would pick mo up, and to my surprise the Asthma
commenced to leave me, and that is how I kept on with it, and now I thank
God that I found tho Cure. I have had oight bottles. Hoping this noto will
not tire you, and hope to hoar from you.
Yours, &c. f
I havo llvod in Leichhardt 17 years.
Messrs. Fishor and Company.
8. F. MORECROFT.
The Most Beneficial Drink in the World!
MIGHTY “ALOE
(REGISTERED TRADE MARK)
. . FOR . .
FISHER & GO’S FAMOUS TONIC.
Ereskly Prepared from the celebrated Kola Nuts
(Kola Acuminata).
Scientific Examination of Mighty “Alok”
BY THE MOST EMINENT AUTHORITY IN AUSTRALIA, AND FOR MANY
YEARS OF SYDNEY UNIVERSITY.
Dr. HELMS, M.A., F.C.S., Consulting and Analytical Chemist.
6 Bridge-street, Sydney,
, February 1, 1898.
Messrs. FISHER and CO.
Gentlemen, —I have examined your preparation, Mighty “ ALOK,” arid find
that it contains, besides Kola Nut, only pure vegetable drugs, having well-known
Tonic properties.—Yours faithfully,
A. H Fjl jMS.
What Mme. ALBANI, the Queen of Song,
Says about “Alok”—Mighty “Alok.”
Hotel Australia, Sydney,
„„„„ .__ March 29, 1898.
Messrs. FISHER and CO.
Dear Sirs,—l shall be much obliged if you will send me Urn bottles of your
preparation, “ ALOK.” lam very glad to tell you that this Tonic was of great
service to me on the sea, and in helping me to recover from the effects of my long
voyage It is of great benefit in stopping sea-sickness-, AND OF GREAT ASSIST
ANCE TO ANYONE WHO HAS FATIGUING WORK TO DO.
I am yours very truly,
G. ALBANI GYE.
The Greatest Appetiser & Pick-me-up in the World!
UNINTOXICATING
nMaSaSEE232U>w~/
But Containing More Sustaining Power than Alcohol or Spirits. This is a
sharp, palatable drink, cleansing the palate, doing good to the stomach,
liver, and brain, so that sad and weak people are made strong and happy. A
splendid preparation for Strengthening the Nerves and Heart.
Every Hotel and Refreshment Room, with Sodawater, 6d per Glass.
All Chemists, 2s 6d and 4s 6d per Bottle.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS & PROPRIETORS :
FISHER & COM PAN Y,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(nearly opposite General Post Office).
Melbourne Laboratory. 405 Collins-street. FISHER & CO.
Consumption and the Open-Air
Treatment.
“Puttaka,” to The Bulletin :
Some years ago a great English authority on disease
made a startling assertion. ‘ Tuberculosis, he said,
the only thing above the horizon which threatens the ex
tinction of the human race.” .
To the average layman the term tuberculosis ““P 1 *®®
but a single one of its many shapes—the pulmonary form
popularly called “consumption ; but the medical man
knows how consistent a hold that insignificant-looki g
bacillus keeps on man from infancy to old age ; from the
spinal decay and hip-disease of early childhood to the
fibroid phthisis of the sexagenarian. Lupus, the ghastly
devourer of manv a pretty face ; caries of bone, cripplin
the strong youth ; disorganisation of joints—such as the
“white knee,” dreaded of factory-girls-aU mean the
same thing. Statistics proverbially lie, but to different
forms of tubercle is due at least one death in every six of
the world’s annual bill of mortality.
Popularly, consumption is a rather common disease of an
incurable type. Scientifically speaking, tubercle of the lungs
is eminently curable. Still scientifically, m three-fourths of
persons dying of causes other than tubercle, post-mortem
examination of the lungs will show traces of a potential
consumption, an invasion successfully resisted by a healthy
organism. Open the little—or perchance walnut-sized—
mass of fibrous or even stony substance, and in the midst
of a pulpy, cheesy mass you will find the traces of a past
infection, walled off securely in a prison imbedded in
healthy lung-tissue. If we take other forms than lung-
tubercle into account, the wonder grows that the disease
has not already swept the world clear and given another
organism a chance to evolve into the place of man.
Tubercular infection is resisted for us by certain semi-
independent masses of protoplasm existing in our blood
and known as leucocytes or white corpuscles. The
activity by which they are enabled to eat up and destroy
the bacillus or to shut it up in a wall of resistant tissue is
dependent on the fitness of the entire organism within
which they have their being. Frequency of attack also
has a good deal to do with the matter. A flanking move-
ment by a fresh force of bacilli (to use the language of the
day) will obviously tend to overwhelm the defending
leucocytes, or a renewed assault with reinforcements
may carry the position while the defenders are weakened
and recuperating. Repeated attacks of the kind may
arise either from habitual breathing of infected dust, or
from the use of infected meat or milk or other foods.
To this knowledge and a little more is due the open-air
treatment of consuniption which is being developed with
such good results. Fresh, pure air, much highly-nutn-
tious, uninfected food, regular moderate exercise, and
regular rest are the essentials of the system. The air and
exercise oxygenate the lung-blood to a high degree,. and
oxygenation tends to weaken or kill the bacillus;
food and rest build up the strength of the organism and
ite leucocytes to resist the enemy direct. Strain, mental
and physical, with its ensuing depression, is avoided. The
patient reverts to a primitive life, with the added con-
ditions of absolute cleanliness and regular food. _ To lie
in the sun with a full belly and the physical delight of
work done, is ideal to the healthy man, and this is what
the consumptive does. He is not drugged for the disease,
for no drugs have much (or any) influence upon the
bacilli, administered as we are able to administer them ;
but symptoms such as distressing cough, &c., are re-
lieved. For the rest, he is kept continuously in the
open air during the (lay, encouraged to exert himself,
gradually at first, but more and more as his strength
grows, to brave wind and rain in suitable clothing ; in the
later stages, to climb trees and yell if he feels that way
disposed. He is fed profusely, made to eat four
times a day as much highly nutritious food as he can
possibly dispose of; he is (riven liquor, for in moderation
alcohol is a powerful oxidising agent. Any mild hobby
is encouraged—even flirtation, if the subject is of pro-
Eerly frivolous mind, may prove an excellent adjunct to
is well-being. He is brought in at sundown, sent to bed
early, and usually sleeps well. Too early rising is not
favored. Sun-baths are useful —on a warm, bright day
the patient gets into a sort of large box without a top,
and in light clothing frizzles and dozes in the glare.
It all seems pleasant and happy-go-lucky enough, but
results are striking. Where it cannot be carried out
thoroughly the basic principles can usually be enforced.
Even in the backyard of a suburban terrace there is some
chance of sunshine, and, except during violent changes and
at night, the consumptive is better out of doors than in.
The item of protection for other inmates comes in here, for
however well the expectorated 'material (sputum, as the
doctors call it) is collected, some is bound to go astray and
infect the dust of a room where a consumptive lives. It
is from this infected dust that the great majority of cases
directly arise.
To sum up—daily fresh air, absolute cleanliness, as
much nutritious food as the subject can
manage, regular moderated exercise and regular sleep, with
afewsirnplerulesof personal hygiene, will do more to stamp
out consumption among human beings than the coddling
and cossetting of a thousand generations of professional
old women. Oxygen and healthy leucocytes are what the
patient needs, and this is the way to obtain them. Ct
the four thousand and odd people who die annually of
consumption in Australasia, probably a thousand are
coddled and drugged out of existence. There is hope to
a very late stage. Nature does not perform for nothing
that curious trimining of the soul-lamp which the o.d
observers called the apes phthisica, and it i 3 always pos-
sible to get a good mental effect with such sufferers.
Three-fourths of successful treatment of any disease de-
pends on this very mental effect. Keep off fresh inva-
sions, aid the organism to maintain its standing army of
leucocytes, and your consumptive, even if advanced,
stands an excellent chance of cure.
And until that happy time arrives when the vendors of
tuberculous meat and milk can be summarily hanged
without appeal, the open-air treatment will continue to
be our best method of keeping consumption under
control.
♦
From Conan Doyle’s * ‘ White Company ”:—
“ . . . My Use to order for the plague—a raw rat with
its paunch cut open. ... to be placed on the or
swelling. For the rat, mark you, being a foul-living
creature, hath a natural drawing or affinity for all foul
things, so that the noxious humours pass from the man
into the unclean beast.”
“Would that cure the Black Death, master?” asked
Jenkin. . ...... . . .
“ Aye, truly would it, my fair son, said the physician.
What a waste of good material, then, to burn
rats ! Surely it is not too late to try the 14th
century remedy.


GEO. ROE
WHISKEY
SHIRTS.
~ or Station and Out-door work our Silk ftTiuprf
Maittalassk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
ate highly recommended.
33/- per UalJ-dozeu, /'vre Uy post throughout
Australia.
Patterns nnd Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTfASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q’land
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
I'ATItONAG
.. 0n...
fir. Frafyk Senior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
I
Avoid Indigestion. Eat
GRANUMA
1 Avoid Plague ? Drink
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
Be Cheerful? Drink
BILLY TEA
The LUXURY of the TIMES. QUITE UP-TO-DA^E
KHAKI BLEND TEA.
Indispensible ! USED by all Loyalists ,
THE BUSHMAN CONTINGENT CANTEEN
Of ALL Good Grocers and Sensible Storekeepers.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WRLT€R BRRPLey * CO.,
I'tivniture <1 ud Fine Avt Audio nee t‘8 t
Auct.on Room\ 324 Gsorg? Surest, Sydns ,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Picture.-,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted oy
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales lhid (tt the Auction Jtoottut.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Waltbk 11u.wm.ey & Co., 321 George-st
POLITICAL
POINTS
Jhe worst use to which you can put a
Ctne f Justice is to make a Lieut.-Governor of
«‘i^!!! U i gg< r tion to rename Transvaal
b T telan 1 d ’ may lead to misunderstanding
through careless people dropping the “ t.”
tr a P^ ITe p fc Lyne are now the onl y Aus-
tralian Premiers with royal handies to their
names. An early-rising politician prophesies that
the new year will see no titled Premiere left
THE MOTHER-IN-LAW-EVEN IN TOPHET.
FAT LUNGUS : “Who that givuin Badeggus hot time?”
SIDEONUS : “ His mother-in-law, just arrived."
What rousing receptions G. H. Reid gets
from Sydney mercantile audiences as compared
with Treasurer See ! Among the Calico Jimmies
G. H. Reid’s is still a name to conjure with.
“In our country we have three unspeak-
ably precious things : freedom of speech, freedom
of conscience, and the prudence never to practise
any of them.” —Mark Twain in “ Pudd’n-head
Wilson’s Calendar.
N.S.W. Public Instruction Department
should not wait for Parliament to compel the
amendment of the regulation under which a
teacher’s salary is reduced if the attendance at his
school falls off, irrespective of the cause of the
falling off.
In S.A. Parliament, which opens this
Thursday, a warm debate is expected in re the
Chamberlain amendment of the Commonwealth
Bill. The local Cabinet is with the delegates, and
so are (strange to say) Downer, Q.C., and the
Laborists.
So far, the public has not seen a list of-
those unspeakable greasers, the members of the
Melb. Metropolitan Board of Works Committee
which recommended the immediate dismissal of
the three officials who refused to sing-to-order
the other day.
The members of Q. Labor-party have
proved gamer than their leader. Mem-
bers Stewart, Reid, Bowman, M'Donald,
Hardacre, Fitzgerald, Kerr, Dunsford, Lesina,
and others have stumped the country against, the
African war, while leader Dawson has smashed
his reputation by eating all his anti-jingo protes-
tations.
Such energy has been shown of late in
striking Westralian voters off the roll that, des-.
pite increased population, there are 183 less voters
in Fremantle, 254 less in E. Fremantle, 125 less in
N. Fremantle, and 271 less in S. Fremantle, than
there were last year. And the same process is
going on all over Westralia. They will soon be
arresting people in Groperland on suspicion of
having a vote.
Sydney Smith s narrow victory at Canter-
bury leaves parties “as you were ” in N S W Leer
Several bye-elections have been held
since the formation of the Lvne Cabinet. Frank
Clarke was returned vice Barton Dan O’Connor
»gaS“i. ,he part> ' ioa “ s * he
The immigrants recently landed in Bris-
Bakblox™ Q h r e& l to go to the
\ B tjOV , t - P ress IS - consequently, very
thn Ut U ,y u sfl< ] ultt Bananalanders wax
westwards^ 6 £ ew ' cl ™“ s reluctance to march
i Haven * the >' just packed off. amid
“rk2?tosS?hAfri«. flo ' rer ot the Westem
nui,t' tCu V', 16 "/. °P ens this Thursday
mlin 'H J H< s der Govt proposes to carry on the
mam democratic measures of the Kingston
regime, thus giving the Council minority further
opportunities of insulting the people tlousehold
suffrage will be the chief itenTbut a big attemS
f i- the democratic party ? to secure
Barly Closing this session.
From their last trench the N.S.W anti-
women suffragists call for a referendum of the sex
to determine whether women shall or shall not
receive the right to vote. But the referendum
Will Itself be the right to vote and if the effect
whichever side it takes, be politically just, that
very referendum will be the strongest practical
argument in favor of women-franchise.
Ihe Q. Polynesian is a free man, of course.
Some few years ago the Bananaland Cabinet
passed a few Fugitive Slave regulations, which
v y Gr « upset by Chief-Justice Griffith. And now
the Q. Home-Sepretary has just ukased that all
-Polynesians must remain on the plantations dur-
-ll}B' the plague scare, and not leave unless pro-
vided with a special permit. Let’s see—what does
4 attached to the soil ” mean ?
r VVhat the Pond wants,” says Sydney
Telegraph indignantly, “is South Africa for the
Dutch. Well, it is very horrible, no doubt; still
the Dutch are the white majority, taking Cape
Colony, Natal, the Transvaal, and the Orange
, r ree State all together, and neither party seems
•to count the niggers. And this paper has a vague
idea that it has heard about “majority rule”
somewhere. Or was it all a dream ?
Adelaide Chronicle :
Millions who have never seen the Queen’s face feel,
nevertheless, the gracious influence that radiates from
her throne.
Also, hundreds of millions feel the gracious influ-
ence that radiates from Joss or Mumbo Jumbo
under similar circumstances. You can feel any
kind of influence, whether it is there or not, so
long as you believe it is there.
Q. Agent-General Toner's threat of return
to Bananaland is probably simply a bid for an
increase in salary; George- Washington alleges
that he can’t live in London on the allowance pro-
vided, and Premier Philp, who certainly does not
want Tozer back in Q. Assembly, will commit
anything short of political suicide to keep him in
London. The odds are a thpusand to a thimble
that dozer gets an additional £SOO or so a year.
In Canada public opinion on the war
seems to be rather divided. On the day set apart
for celebrating the relief of Ladysmith, the mobs
congregated in front of the English and French
newspaper offices in Montreal engaged in pitched
battles against which the police proved powerless ;
and the French students did not permit the
British flag to be hoisted on their University.
The cable never tells Australia any of these things.
Sydney Herald of 12th Sept., 1843, pub-
lished a long article on the advantages of opening
a communication overland to Port Essington.
“We want a high road to India, to China,” said
the Herald. Again: “A stream of population
is required from China.” The Herald’s en-
thusiastic support of the Leichhardt exploration
in this direction rested on the hope that a way
would be thereby opened for a stream of Chinese
immigrants.
It is possible, under the recent Act passed
by S.A. Parliament, for a member of Council or
Assembly to stand for the Federal Parliament,
but, should he be elected, he must resign his seat,
for it is enacted that no man may sit in both legis-
latures at the same time. Nearly all the more
Srominent S.A. politicians, except Attomey-
eneral Gordon and ex-Premier Kingston, intend
to try for Federal honors, and (should Westralia
join) there will be 13 seats to fill up.
The Glassford Creek Railway crowd has
just mado a generous offer to the Bananaland
Govt. If the co. be allowed to build the line it
alleges that it will actually allow the Govt, to
work it—all profits going to the co., which is also
prepared to stand any losses. If the prospects
are so good that aforesaid co. can afford to make
aforesaid offer, then the sooner Q. Govt, steps in
and builds the line itself the better. There are
numbers of philanthropists in Queensland just
now simply a-burst with generosity.
Editor Bulletin. —Kugelmann v. Nor-
ton. —As one who was compelled to listen to the
whole of the evidence in this case 1 cordially con-
cur in the tenor of the article in your last issue.
I reo comment being apparently still debarred I
can only emphatically confirm your contention
that there are many features of the case requiring
unsparing criticism in the public interest. Ido
trust that so soon as legal quibbles allow, you will
analyse the evidence carefully, and exorcise to the
full your right of criticism.—A. .Juror.
1 lie demand of the Queensland Govt, that
Tyson’s estate shall pay to it, not only succession
duty on the Q. property, but also Hid,472 on the
property in the other provinces, and the similar
claim being advanced in N.S. W., look very like
highway robbery, The result will be, of course,
that the lug estate will be taxed twice over, and
however objectionable huge estates may be, and
however legal the proceedings may be, the whole
affair has the appearance of a fraud. By what
moral right does any province claim to tax pro-
perty m another province ?
It is pleasing to note tint even the hard-
shelled Toryism of the Law Institute of Victoria
is enamoured of the principle of the Referendum,
with a view to ascertaining whether the members
or tna legal profession are inconvenienced by the
partial closing of the Court library dunrig Xmas
vacation, it has issued a question on the matter, in
referendum form, to all local lawyers, and proposes
to submit the result to the judges. Vet what an
outcry would be raised by members of the institute
were it proposed to refer to every elector in Vie
the question whether the Leg. Council should be
granted a perpetual vacation, or whether “ free
justice were a desirable institution !
1 lemier Seddon’s scheme of an Imperial
Maordand with legislative arms extending over
number of distant islands
is little more than an
early Australian dream
revived. Gov. Macquarie
maintained strongly tliat
M.L. should be legisla-
tively subject toN.S.W.,
and not alone M.L. byt
the islands north, east
and west. Chaplain Mars-
den was full of the same
ideas whtai he went mis-
sionarying there. In
fact, most prominent
early Austral ians con-
sidered they had light
divine to annex all the
islands from the South
Pole to the Equator held
by native races, and tried
several times to strike
out in that way, but
were sternly ordered
down by Great Britain.
The last of these flouted
empire-makers was the
once redoubtable
ThomasMTlwraith, who
sent a police-magistrate
to plant the Union Jack
on Papua. As a result
of the MTlwraithian
set-back Germany annexed the better part of the
great island.
Melbourne Age (24/5/’00) on the begin-
nings of the Boer war :
The Cape Dutch vyere to rise and join the- Federal Re-
publics and Natal was to he seized. Ninety thousand
Boers were already m arms, and 40,000 more were to come
irom tne Cape, &c.
This rising of (10,000 adult male Boers out of a
population of 160,000 men, women and children is
one of those efforts by which David Syme’s paper
distinguishes itself when it is out for a fine large
Jingo grovel, with the glare of Beer in its eye
and has thrown the office arithmetic book to the
tour winds of heaven.
The Lyne Ministry seeks to strengthen
the 1 reetrade section of its heterogeneous follow-
ln£; Dan O Connor, who was allowed to run
“Pderthe Govt, wing for the Protectionist seat
of Phillip Division, is a Freetrader, and so was
laylor, whom the party backed at Canterbury
Ihe support of Sydney Daily Telegraph is one
ol Dyne f chief sources of strength at present, and
he owes it to that versatile journal to increase if
possible his hold on the old “Freetrade and
Diberal Association ” followers.
A Weslralian Parliamentary committee is
now sitting to consider and indignantly rebut the
charges of corruption levelled at the Bigjohn
Govt, by Robson, M.L.A. Here is one of the
earliest items of evidence, showing how the re-
butting business is getting on;
Mr. Alexander, M.L.C., said he had no recollection of
writing to Mr. Robson offering him financial assistance,
but he had stated verbally that if Mr. Robson would sup-
port the Govt, he would receive financial assistance.
Witness did not think there, was anything unmtial in that
statement.
W hat must be the moral standard of a country
where an offer like that isn’t considered “any-
thing unusual”—is quite usual, in fact ?
According to the Jewish Herald, the
Jewish community of Melbourne is satisfied with
the Education Act as it is. “We say again that
it would be fairer to all denominations to leave out
religious teaching from the State-school curriculum,
and have such teaching supplied by the churches
themselves.” Judaism has not been a State
creed for nearly 2000 years, and has survived and
flourished without begging for political patronage.
Also, the Jew, who has endured persecution from
all the alleged Christian sects in turn, stands out
to-day in v ictoria in refreshing contrast to the
Gentile, who. by begging on his knees for State
support, tacitly confesses that all his Sunday-
schools and Bible : classes and prayer-meetings are
of no avail.
Dear B.—Exact figures are these. When
the question of South Aus. Council reform was
submitted to the S.A. voters at large by referen-
dum, 49, 208 voted for reform and only 33,928
against—reform majority, 15,280. And this was
one-man-one-vote. _ Then at the Council elections,
where only a fraction of the people had votes, and
£h® plural property suffrage raged exceedingly,
22,003 votes were cast for reform and 24,382 against
majority against Council reform, even in the
Council’s own narrow constituency, where 47,000
votes probably represented only 24,000 electors, only
1779. And Tory papers like the Critic call this 1779
anti-reform majority a decisive expression of the
people’s will, and Molb. 'Table Talk (surely it
must be under-the-table talk) calls it a Crushing
Blow. — Crow.
It amuses The Bulletin to notice how
unanimously, so far as comment is concerned, the
Sydney daily papers avoided that awkward sub-
ject of the Rentoul-Hopkins deputation to the
Vic. Premier, re the threatened dismissal
by Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works
of certain npn-Jingo employes of that body. The
Daily. 1 klkgrafh was honest enough, or business-
like enough to print on following day a full account
(wired by its Molb. correspondent, the Age) of the
speeches made to the Premier by Prof. Rentoul
and Rev. Mr. Hopkins; S.M. Herald let the
thing alone until a day later, and then most un-
obtrusively printed a mucji- condensed summary
(the S.M. Heralds Molb. agent is the all-wool-
dingo Argus) ; but the Evening News and Aus-
tralian Star said never one solitary syllable,
either by way of news or comment, about the
matter. Yet the manful protest made by the
Rentoul-Hopkins deputation was almost a land-
mark in Australian history.
N.S.W. ex-Premier Reid lately, at. Strath-
field, cursed the Lyne Government for its futile
and apparently baseless prosecution of policeman
i\l ‘Govern, charged with perjury in a betting-case,
and insinuated that M‘G. was prosecuted as a
THE FEAR THAT MAKES HEROES.
MILLY : “ Why don't you go to the tear, Freddy?"
FREDDY : “Me? No fear! I ain't afraid of
the plague.”
warning ,to the great aggregate bobby to leave
influential betting men alone. P.M.G. Crick
leplies that policeman M‘G. was proceeded
against formally because his superior officer de-
msmded it in order that he might have a chance of
publicly clearing his character of certain asper-
sions, and asks Reid if he can’t find a curse to
spare for his own Ministry’s conduct in starting a
criminal prosecution against him (Crick) without a
speck of evidence to produce in excuse thereof,
and for its malignity in urging the magistrate even
to refuse him bail. The Reid Government’s prose-
cution of Crick was a disgrace that still smells
worse than the Moore Park tip. Also, the
manner in which the Crown counsel sought to push
the- case against Crick was a scandal which the
community could still smell even if it stuck a
clothes-peg on its nose.


VITADATIO
The World’s Great Blood Purifier.
Another Victory Over Hydatids!
Forsyth-st., Sand Hill, Wagga Wagga,
March 13, 1900.
I feel it my duty to testify to the wonderful cure of
Hydatids that has been effected in my own case by the
use of WEBBER’S VITADATIO. I have suffered for the
PAST SIX (6) YEARS from HYDATIDS ON THE LUNG,
and during that time I had SEVERAL SEVERE
HEMORRHAGES, my life at times was despaired of, and
twice the sacrament was administered to me by our
minister (Rev. G. A. Carver). Life in itself was simply a
burden. I was attended to by doctors in Wagga and
Sydney, who were very kind, and did all in their power
to alleviate my suffering. After using the Vitadatio the
Hydatid and Cysts were expelled from my body, and I am
thankful to say I have been restored to HEALTH and
STRENGTH solely by the use of Webber's Vitadatio. I
ain willing that you should use this in any way you
choose, hoping it may be the means of leading other poor
sufferers to try Webber’s renowned Vitadatio.
Yours respectfully,
(Mrs.) H. A. RUDD.
Witness—W. J. FIST.
The facts of Mrs. Rudd’s illness are to my knowledge
exactly as she states, although I know nothing of the
nature of the disease or its symptoms, but she certainly is
now well and strong.
(Signed) GEO. A. CARVER,
Incumbent St. John’s,
Wagga.
We, the undersigned, know that Mrs. Rudd suffered as
stated above, and we supplied Webber’s Vitadatio to her.
(Signed) T. DOBNEY and CO.,
Storekeepers.
The Price of this Medicine is
Large Size, 5 s Gel; Small Size, 3s Gd.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s Gd.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
Head Institute for Queensland,
116 Queens-st., Brisbane.
£3"ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
'f'K
\3§
)AuS
800
n
ncc
V-
forfncyz
_ Z '* '
JCLhfiU tfo, U< SMi, SMbt'SM.
Ten
piano-
Forte
Jolcs
. . FOR . .
ONE SHILLING
In the NEW ISSUE of
Price, Is. ; or posted, Is. 2d.
Obtainable at all Musicsellers throughout Australia, or
direct from the Publishers,
Pan Co. proprietary [td.
276 & 278 Collins-st., Melbourne.
RECORD ORDER for
121
.. YOSTS
This order has just been given by
Her Majesty’s Government for
Yost Typewriters, after the famous
machine had been thoroughly
tested alongside other makes.
m,
>r\
This is the Clearest Proof of the Sterling Value of the Yost Typewriter.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
Pitt Street, SYDNEY; 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane: Webster & Co. ; Adelaide: Reeves & Co.; Launceston : Hedley Button.
Agents also for the NEW CENI UltY and DENSMORE.
BUILD A TERRACE
OF FINE HOUSES
WITH THE MONEY
THAT THE
n
Cash Register
... WILL ...
Save . and Make for You
in a Few Years .
You don’t understand why ?
Well, you have only to investigate
To see how to accumulate !
FACT! STICK TO IT. IT’S MONEY!
PRICES ON APPLICATION to
national Cash Register Co.,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGTIAM, General Manager.
mn
**
■
*
s*‘ '
* W
; ;NSCSS
W- v. -
• ■
fSTfr.
Excel
all
others
for
Touring,
their
Speed
and
Relia-
bility
making
them
popular
with
all
cyclists
You are
invited
to send for a copy
of our interesting
booklet, “The
Story of a Re-
markable Ride ’
wherein a graphic
account of Arthur
tvi.-liardson’s wonderful Cycle Ride around Australia is given. Copies will be posted
gratis upon receipt of application.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.,
and at Melb.. Adelaide. Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch. N.Z.] 150 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Melb. Met. Gas Co. showed itself eon-
S On Mafeking Day the employes, outexde the
were told to take three hours oft for -eioic
S 5 purposes, and when next pay-day carae lmse
three hours of jubilation were deducted from the
G- H. Reid, speaking on behalf of Puinp-.
kin Smith, at Canterbury, described that gentle-
man as “ one of the cleverest strategists m
Parliament.” The following evening Carruthers,
another old colleague of Smith’s, pathetically des-
cribed him as ‘ ‘ high but simple-minded. Neither
statement is at all near the truth. Old man
Parkes once said that the greatest sin he ever had
to answer for was “the introduction of that man
into oublic life, But then,” he added, reflectively,
“evevy Ministry must have a man to fetch and
rarrv ” Smith never knew enough to come m out
of the wet after rain had set in, but in the course
of his fetching and carrying he was frequently
enabled to tell his colleagues when it was going to
rain.
An officer of a N.S. W. public department,
a man who deserved well of bis country, lay
grievously ill the other day. Though he had been
many years in the service, he was not entitled
under the regulations to anything but a small pen-
sion, which would die with him. The Minister
o-rasped the situation, and, aided by the depart-
ment’s permanent heads, set to work. 1 hey suc-
ceeded in circumventing the various tardy met! >ods
of departmental procedure, and the dying mans
papers were rushed through the board, past the
Ministerial head to the Executive Council. Ihe
Goverimieiit-iii-Council 4 4 retired the officer six
hours only before his death. He thus became en-
titled to a handsome grat lity, which will go to his
widow and young family. It was a near thing.
Delegate Kingston writes from London to
say that it was impossible to secure (even con-
fidentially) a copy of S.A. Chief-.) ustice Way’s
pamphlet against Clause 74 of the Commonwealth
Bill, although many copies must have been sent
by the - interfering C.,J. to influential people.
Another aggravating thing was the publication of
cables received by London papers from nonentities
such as Ware, the brewer-publican Mayor of
Adelaide, Wilcox, M.L.C., and others, which led
English statesmen to think that a Jingo Australian
majority indignantly repudiated the delegates.
Kingston promises to speak plainly when he re-
turns, and S.A. politicians know what that means.
Being kicked hard by Opposition-leader
Illingworth, Premier Forrest climbed down from
his original proposal that only the 40,000 voters
on the old Westralian roll should have a vote at
the Federal Referendum. (There aren’t really
40,000 voters on the roll, for the plural voter is
mighty in W.A., and the same name often appears
20 or 30 times ; probably the real electors on the
old roll are about 20,000.) John said he couldn’t
see why a vote taken on the old roll should not be
“a sufficient expression of opinion,” but being
kicked a little extra he proposed that any adult
British citizen, male or female, of 12 months’
standing in Groperland shall be able to obtain a
certificate which will make him or her a voter for
Referendum purposes. John didn’t disguise that
ho had fully intended to disfranchise all the new
electors on this occasion, and he climbed down
awkwardly and grumpily.
The Acetylene Miners’ Lamps, introduced by
the Acetylene Gas 00. of Australia, Ltd., have proved a
great success and are now largely used in the mines
throughout the colony. The company has lately been
rushed with orders for lighting up gold-mining dredges
owing to the many advantages offered by the light for
that purpose. It would be well for mine and dredge
owners to ascertain full information as to cost, etc., from
the Head Office of the Company, 30 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
War-correspondent MacDonald tells a neat
story of a photographer in Ladysmith. It was
the camera-man’s first experience of battle. He
placed his tripod in position to photo, a British
charge. Mauser bullets were falling all around
him, but he stood his ground, with his head under
the dark; cloth, focussing the field. “Yip, yip,”
came the bullets, pecking up the earth. But the
photographer did not lie down or seek cover.
“ At first,” said MacDonald, “ I thought he was a
hero ; I admired him But then I called out from
where I was lying : ‘ Hi! do you know you are
under fire ?’ ” The photographer gasped and
dropped on to the veldt. “ I thought they were
insects ! ” he cried.
Despite the probability that the death-
sentence will be commuted in the case of the
youth Murphy, lately convicted in Sydney of
murder, the fitness of the ancient Nosey Bob to
continue as-oflicial man-butcher is again called in
question. Nosey is not particularly anxious? to
hold on, but wants a pension on retirement, “like
any other civil servant.” He thinks he deserves a
substantial pension for his many years of service.
On the other hand, it has been denied, again and
again, that he is a civil servant, or that he is
entitled to any monetary consideration when past
work. Numbers of candidates are in running for
the billet—several from other provinces—but when
a change is effected it is believed that a selection
will be made of one of three or four candidates
now holding positions in Darlinghurst prison.
The recent gales caused two wrecks on
N.S.W. coast—barque Harvester, Capetown to
Newcastle, on Seal Rocks ; and coasting steamer
Jane, foundered near Nelson’s bay. Luckily no
lives were lost.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—^
LOWEST INTEREST.
easy terms.
WE
tfp-
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
nxr.s.'w.
(flont deplete OJ|. Co., Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEBEA&H ST., *7<±
SYDNEY
v EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . ,
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIQH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Manager.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street (facing Bridgest.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fiiip. Imibilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M‘Millan, M.P., A. VV. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,006
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual !Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. O. J. Roberts, ,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765- assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
119 & 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4’ool .. £3,196,353 0 O
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; lion. VV. 11. Enabling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector: H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Jiisliopsr/nte Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW COUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 27 :i GEORGE STItIfIKT.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
llaymarket, Gosford with agency at Wyong), New-
c.i.-'tle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6. T
Shipping.
THE~HOWA3a" SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Austral ian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE 1
GEELONG
PORTLAND f]
WARRNA MBOOL J
Tyrian, Sat., June 16, 1 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., June 33, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyonjpr, Tues., July 3, 5 p.m.
ALBANY )
FREMANTLE . j
Buninyong, Tues., July 3, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH I
ROCKHAMPTON f,
BUNDABERG I
Leura, Saturday, June 16, 12 Noon.
Koonowarra, Tues.', June 1!), 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., June 28, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, June 16, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, June 23, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Carjro
booked throusrh.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &o.
lb* Trustees, €x€cOtorS,
AND
BgSOCV Con>pai)V Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £160.000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £160,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
aiul Clients, Sist December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L.
trustee.
I. Barker registered
Directors : P. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branoh: Equitable Buildings, Coorge Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 600,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ~ .. £3,000,000
Queensland Smelting Rompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lend, and
. Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office,s2 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS
Aldershot, Queensland.
Business Announcements.
Mr. ROBERT BYRNE
HAS AGAIN RESUMED BUSINESS AS
Land and Estate Agent,
AT HIS OLD ADDRESS,
333 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Next to Commercial Bank.
ladies^Tailobinc
Season—l9oo.^>
HAVING made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring 1 Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Lady Patrons
to our' New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in*
coming Mail boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
6s 6d A Watch & Chain for 6s 6d
L ,
V\7 E sold 4700 in
~~ 1899. To every
purchaser of one of
our 2s 6d “Burmese”
Silver Chains (either
Ladies’ or Gent.’s) we
will present, on pay-
ment of 4s extra,
an OPEN-FACE
FULL- DAY KEY-
LESS WATCH which
we guarantee a per-
fect timekeeper.
There are no con-
ditions or guessing- about this watch. We send the watch
and chain registered (any colony) on receipt of postal note
for 6s 6d and 6d for postage. We make this extraordinary
offer merely to circulate our price-list and acive tise the
quality of our goods. Watch and chain sent on approval;
if returned within 14 days, money refunded.
H. POTIER & CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney.
LADIES !
" " lm *' Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. Emrlish Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Everj- requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales . • . \
Barbers’ Supply House >
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Catting at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail September.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AFRIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public, and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
lirn——ii i i i wmnmm mmm —mw .
LIN GLAND VIA AMERICA
* by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINIC>
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Frail*
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Steamer.
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
MOAN A
Leave
|Tons. Sydney
at 1 p.lll.
I !
Leave
Auckland.
Arrive ab
.San
Franciuoo,
3163 July 4July 0 July 27
3168 August 1 August 0 August 24
401)0 August 29 Sept. 8 Sept. 21
'l'iokets are available until used, and Saloon
i assengers oan break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
1 assengers booked to all parts of Ainerioa,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
I or time curds, railway maps, and guide books showing
. I ,n,orm ntioii l apply Union Si earn Ship Co.
or N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 16 Currie Street.
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N.D.L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MATL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
96 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,876,400; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Sue/, and Port Said.
’TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-BT.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
S 3
W
i
i
m
ITT.USTRATED
IVITH numerous anatomical
’ ’ colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
Express Passenger Service
—TO AND FROM
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports^
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
June 15.
S.S. Marloo, Saturday,
June 16. (Without
Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Kockton, Friday,
June 15.
Best dd C/ieapest Route to Goldfields,
Passage tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N.
Company and W. Howard Smith and Sons, subject to
conditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
______ Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOVVN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Pasaenf/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Culalne unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents: ,
SYDNEY Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.IJ.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH 1). Hamilton.
BRISBANE British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at, the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Steamer.
Commander.
Sydney,
Noon
OCEANA
PENINSULAR
BRITANNIA
CHINA
INDIA
6608 L. H. Crawford, 0.8.R.N.R. 'June 10
5287 W. A. Wheler ... .. Jjune 30
(1525 F. 11. Seymour ... .. 'July 14
8000 T. S. Angus ... ... July 28
7011 W. D. O. Worcester, R.N.R. Aug. 11
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £O5 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAWNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
Huddart, parker & go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOMART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORT’S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer.
EASTERN
AIRLIE ...
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIE
EASTERN
Tns
Commander.
Leave Sydney.
. 3000 Winthrop Ellis ...
~ 2500 St. John George
. 3000 P. T. Helms
2500 W. G. M‘Arthur ..
3000. Winthrop Ellis .
June 10
July 12
August 4
September 1
September 22
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
IPuiraith, lll'Eacharn* Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Lti
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
~ ~ J , Bridge-street! Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6foo tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows ’
Steamer
ARMD. BEHIC
AUSTRALIEN
V.DELACIOTAT
Mel-
bourne,
I p.m.
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m.
July 12 July It
August 9 Aug. 11
Sept. 6 Sept. 8
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O
including table wines.
RETURN TICKEIS AT REDUCED RATES
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters mee
the passengers for London and give them every assistants
m landing and passing their luggage t hrough the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter
colonial Ports are available for return by P and O
and Orient steamers having room. J v
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Office*
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney ompan Y 8 ofllcei »
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent


IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
STUART& CO.
’ FBOFRIETiBY LIMITED,
252 & 251 Flinders Street, Melbourne (o '. Station).
10,000 ni'-oes of Woollens to select from.
\\ o
0
\ 0 «
1 1
is marvellous value, made
from all-wool Tweeds Vi-
cunas, or Serges,fa*tcolors
is perfect fitting; and beau-
tifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order
from any class of material,
m ;{s. To measure, capital
Trousers, very good pat-
terns, 12s. fid.
Dress Suits to measure,
£5. Clei lea Suits, to mea-
sure, £-■>.
Hiding Breeches.2ss.
Hiding Habits, Ac.
We supply ready-made
Men’s Capital Tweed Suits
’ls., 255.
r'amous Ballarat Serge
I nits, Indigo dye, 255.
bong Chesterfield Coats
nil colors.3«s.
ExcdlentTweed or Serge
Trousers, 5» lid.
All-wool Blue and Black
Vicuna Coats and Vesta,
Ills fid.
Tweed Overcoats, 2I».
W terproof Coats, full
capes 15s. 9d. Undressed
White Shirts, linen fronts
and cuffs, 2s- fid., 3s. fid.
4s. fid.. ss. fid.
Heavy Warm Travelling
Hugs, 10s fid.. 13s. fid.
All-wool Crimean Shirts,
ss. fid., 7s. fid. Travelling
- ~ 1 great
Trunks, Bags ... „
variety. Soft Alpine Hats,
4s. fid., all colors.
Hard Hats,ls. 6d.
Caps, Is.
Merino Undershirts or
rants- Is. 9d. .
Neckties, all shapes and colors, Is. White Shirts to measure.
Gents* Splendid Balmoral Boots. 6s. 9,1.. 9s. 6d.
We like to write letters, so don't be afraid to ask for any
Information. Our book. "The Philosophy of Dress and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms pnst.d free
Write for them.
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Is a restorative and physical
regenerator of magic power. A
broken-down or weakened sys-
tem rejuvenated Vytol acts
on the nerves, brain & blood,
quickly 4 permanently restor-
ing to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of
youth. Price posted, 7/6 Kocke,
Tomusitt A Co., Druggi-ts, 292
Fiinders-street W., Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
mDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty In Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AD LT & CO S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developesa lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Extract from a description of the surren-
der of Cronje’s broken legion by “ Charles E.
Hands.” The Bulletin finds this in the pages of
the Western Argus (Kalgoorlie, W.A.): —
Herded between the two files, marching in irregular
rows, were
“ Surely,” we said, “ these must be the camp-followers,
wagon-drivers, horse-tenders, and so on, who are being
brought in first! ” A drove of tramps carrying bundles
of rags and such bundles as tramps collect. A regiment
of Weary Willies and Tired Tims with ragged beards, and
smashed slouch-hats, and tin-cans and empty beef-tins
dangling by strings from their brace-buttons. Some
carried saucepans slung over their shoulders by strips of
leather or bits of string; some carried tea-kettles ; one or
two walked with green umbrellas.
There were doddering old men with grey beards and
wild, staring eyes, who looked like lunatics, and helped
their bent knees with long staves or tree branches. There
were boys—lank, slender boys—who did not look more
than 13 or 14. They were not even robust-looking. By
the side of our sturdy Buffs they looked like weeds.
Lanky they were and wiry perhaps, but of Oronje’s heavy
look of strength they had none.
When Lord Roberts and Cronje were side by side the
one seemed all blood, the other all bone. But this lot
showed neither blood nor bone.
And there was a mean, underhand, shifty-eyed look
about the most of them that would have set the most
complaisant house-dog barking. It looked like a casual
ward being taken out on a stone-breaking expedition. . .
“ All the men here belonging to Potchefstroom get
together on the right,” he called out, and half the crowd
rose and went to the place indicated.
Potchefstroom ! —these tramps ! Was it possible ? The
veritable Potchefstroomers 1 That was just what they
were. They looked like the submerged tenth, and they
were the fighting backbone of Mr. Kruger’s army.
Probably a force doesn’t look its best when it has
been penned up for over a week under a terrible
bombardment by an enemy ten times its strength.
Yet it doesn’t read like the description of that
allegedly splendidly-equipped army which was the
result of ten years’ secret preparation for war, and
on which all these millions had been spent. It
looks more like a picture of the raw levies of a
little pastoral state which had drifted into war
without much preparation, and shoved boys and
grandfathers into the ranks in the desperate effort
to present some kind of a front to the foe. The
doddering old men who walked by the aid of tree-
branches aren’t the sort of troops one would expect
under the alleged circumstances. And —ye gods !
-—was it this old wild-eyed Home for Incurables
which held back Methuen and his 18,000 men, and
stood its ground for nine days against Roberts’s
45,000?
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for 1 CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat,-Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents*. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on &
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
n
mn
fringes,
EfltoraJ Cor!/, from Sfi uek
PLAITS and TAILS,
JtHn. lone, £>/fi. *ll real hate.
CUTTINGS ft COMBUHM
np, i/9 per 02.
W* are tho cheape&Ho left
Valla for all Bair Work,
Sand Color of Hair. '
WrH/Wigz«lL
IJO WrLUAU STBfBT,
atrui of Palmer-etraet,
„ SYDNEY. _ _
Cable Tram <riU stop at Boo*..
18* od stamp#'lor full Prioe Us£X
ni— ruprinin'ilf n - T~~ Country or
m
Army Medical
A member of N.S.YV.
Corps to a Sydney weekly :
fnL W °wu n °t give 100 acres of our country for 1000 of
tins. Why, the only trees they have growing here are
Australian gums which some fair-minded Dutchmen im-
ported from Queensland years ago.
Piejudice hgainst the Boer is so deep-rooted in
the Australian contingenter that he is completely
surpnsed to find a Dutchman honest enough
to admit that a decent tree can be grown in the
British Empire, and “fair-minded ” enough to im-
port it.
Missing Friends.
UENRY GODFREY and WILLIAM C9D7R2Y. sona of
■ CHARLES GODFREY, late of the city of Birming-
ham, England, Licensed Victualler, deceased, if alive,
should at once communicate with the undersubscribed,
when each of them will be informed of the extent of his
interest under his father’s will. If either or both of the
abovenamed are dead, any information relating to the
time and place of death, and the whereabouts of surviving
children (if any), should be communicated without delay
to JOHNSONS BARCLAY & LOWE,
36 Waterloo-street, Birmingham, England, Solicitors of
the Executors of the said Charles Godfrey, deceased.
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely for Toilet Soap was obtained by
SkM
Hk
i s<m,,
FRAKgA
| A.&F. PEARS
t?/.
t ->r
SSBIteSW
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by the
jurors of the
Fan's Exhibition,
SOAP MAKERS,
By
Special Appointment
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales.
i rnv HOd HITH
aooo
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Eestorer.
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair, If vour Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra
HOLLAND'S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
; now ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. (id. Postage,
9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul, & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
This is the Latest Type I
GRAMOPHONE
or
ZONOPHONE!
Price, £7.
n
TALKS! SINGS!
PLAYS ALL
Instrumental Music!
In fact, it is a CONCERT in your own Home.
Nothing to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send lor New Illustrated List—FREE.
05T Also on Sale—Phonographs and Graphophones;
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £so—a fortune for a smart
man ; 2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each—‘Bargain.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe Street (120 Pitt-street), Sydney (Only),
nearly opposite G.P.O.
[Carriage Paid.] W. J. N. Oldersuaw, Manager.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
XO DUIr’Y COMFJBTITIOKT.
WINES J7e “ B r' s O,Uv 01 SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Don’t Let the Clock Run Down.
“ The human body,” says a great physician, “is
a seventy-year clock.” . ...
Yes, and like all other clocks the time it will
run depends largely on how it is treated.. Ta e
the pendulum weight off the end of the wire and
your clock will rattle away at the rate of half-a-
dozen hours in one. Neglect it and it will run
irregularly; now fast, now slow. Break the
mainspring, or a wheel, and it stops instant y.
Take intelligent care of it and a good clock will
serve your grandchildren as faithfully as it now
serves you.
There is an important difference, however,
between your clock and your body. Even after
your clock is completely run down, and at a
standstill, you can wind it up and set it going
again. Not so with the body. Once stopped it
goes no more. . . , .,
We know the limits of his meaning perfectly
well, yet, speakingliterally, Mr. MatthewL. Brown
was not “ completely run down ” at the time he
refers to. Thankful we are, and more thankful
still he is, for that. But he was frightfully near it.
The pendulum heat very slowly and weakly, and
the hands could scarcely be trusted to tell the true
time. „ . <<t
“About five years ago,” writes Mr. Brown, 1
was completely run down. I lost my appetite. 1
could get nothing to lie on my stomach. Some-
times I would take dizzy spells and nearly fall
down, and would see black dots before my eyes.
I kept getting worse all the time.
“ I tried different patent medicines ; they gave
me no relief. I kept getting worse. I tried two
of the best doctors in the place ; they did me no
good. I was obliged to take to my bed.
“ I would take faint spells and my heart would
beat and flutter, and I would nearly smother for
breath. I felt more like dying than living.”
[Those fainting or sinking spells of which Mr.
Brown speaks are a peculiar feature of the disease
he was suffering from. Only modern physicians,
and not all of them, understand their gravity, or
have given them the study they call for. No
sensation is more alarming, none more demoralis-
ing to the patient. While they lasted the angel of
death seemed to havo folded his wings over the
sufferer’s pale and anxious face. The cause is a
poison in the blood arising from continued fer-
mentation of food in the stomach, ft acts upon
the nerves of the brain, lungs, and heart as a hand
might impede the pendulum of a great clock. )
“I began to think,” adds our correspondent,
“ that I never should get round again. My wife
wanted me to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup. I said
I didn’t think it was any use. She went and got
a bottle of Mother Seigel’s Syrup, and before I
had taken it all I was able to no to my work.
“ I have taken several bottles since. 1 am now
able to work as hard as ever. I would ad vise any
one that is suffering as I was to try Mother
Seigel’s Curative Syrup, and it will not he in vain.
Yours truly (Signed) Matthew L. Brown, East
Maploton, March 28th., 1895.”
Our friend laboured under a profound attack of
indigestion or dyspepsia. 1 he symptoms he
described were due to its effects upon the nervous
system, and through that upon other .organs. It
follows that the medicine to avail him must be one
having power to expel existing impurities from
the blood, rouse to action the stomach and liver,
render nutrition possible by means of the restored
digestion, and so give new life to the whole body.
This is what Mother Seigel’s Syrup did for our
correspondent, and does for all who appeal to it
under like circumstance. It winds up the clock
before the pendulum has ceased to swing. But keep
an eye on that bodily clock of yours, and don’t let
it run so far down. In other words, the very hour
you feel the first sign of illness take a dose of
Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
At Melbourne that troublesome male-
factor, burglar King, has again been “sent-up”
for 10 years’ with periods of solitary confinement.
The sentencer was Judge Gaunt. King is mad,
and to give him “solitary” is a wanton and irra-
tional act. He will ultimately kill someone in
gaol, and be hanged for it.
The representative of Wellington (M.L.)
Wharf-Laborers’ Union got badly wrecked during
a recent hearing before the Conciliation Board.
He contemptuously asked the acting-sec. of the
Harbor Board (a departmental draughtsman and
surveyor) what' Ae knew about hard work. “ W ell, ”
said the latter, “ I have lumped grain, mined coal,
shorn sheep, tied oats after a reaper, have stooked
and stacked, blacksmithed and carpentered, and I
do all my own painting, paperhanging and glazing.
Moreover, I’ve made roads, laid drains and sunk
post-holes; and I’ve started with a team before
daylight, come back after dark, and put up 30
chains of stake-and-wire fencing when it was said
it couldn’t be done. Yes, I fancy I no know
something about hard work.” The staggered
union rep. sat down.
Mainly about Kingston : —
When the S.A. ex-Premier heard of his defeat at the
Council election, he cabled to his law-partner from Lon-
don : “ Tell them stick to the guns. Fighting for Aus-
tralia in London.” 0. 0. Kingston has been fighting
somebody pretty well all through his life. When younger
he was the champion “ heavy” ruck man for S. Adelaide
football team. As Gordon, Attorney-Geneial, said at the
declaration of the poll, “Kingston is a democratic chief
who never takes his war-paint off.” There is hardly a
public man he has not met in a “frontal attack.” Baker,
chief of the National Ass ; Symon, Stirling (Tory leader),
besides innumerable small fry, not counting the whole of
the medical profession. His friends have always said that
his happiest moment was when Sparks went for him with
a whip in Victoria-square—anyway, that wliip is a valued
trophy. “ Tell them stick to the guns ” is characteristic.
Nearly everyone in Adelaide who knows anything of
O.C.K. firmly believes that he will remain in S.A. politics
until the enemy is routed and household suffrage becomes
' law. It is what they expect of the man—he will be 50 in
Oct.—who, when at school, was leader of the fighting
faction and champion pug. of the institution.


THE SILVER RIBBON name - plate on the
EASY RUNNING MASSEY-HARRIS
stands for your money’s worth in Bicycles.
Factones-Toronto, Canada New South Wales Headquartera-Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane. Adelaide
Agencies almost everywhere Art Catalogue nosted free on application
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 885 GEORGE STREET,
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
SYDNEY
Ihe issue of that readable booklet, “The
Story of a Remarkable Ride,” has gone throng'll three
editions of 10,000 each, and as only a few hundred copies
of this interesting narrative of Arthur Richardson’s cycle
ride around Australia are left, cyclists who desire a copy
(which is supplied gratis by the Dunlop Tyre Co.) are
advised to send along a post-card to any of the Dunlop
depots to ensure obtaining it, as no furtn6r editions will
be issued.*
An aged patriot was curvetting down
Bourke-stroet, Melb., on Mafeking Day, when he
suddenly discovered that he had lost his colors,
and promptly replaced them by taking a flag from
the nearest child. The child’s mother, who had
paid fid. for that flag, rushed to its rescue; but
arguments and an umbrella alike proved unavail-
ing. Then a big woman, seeing the disturbance,
said ‘ 1 I’ll soon settle that ! ” and launched a
terrific right-hander at the flag-lifter, who had
begun to move ahead. Luckily, he chanced to
drunkenly lurch at the right moment, the blow
missed, and 14 stone of shrieking femininity over-
balanced on the pavement, whilst old greybeard,
without even noticing what had happened, rolled
victoriously onward, with the flag floating in the
breeze.
Extract from the Canterbury (N.S.W.)
electioneering address of “Mr. J. J. Cooper, J.P.,
ex-alderman and mayor, Bankstown ” :
He is a Federalist under the British Constitution, and
will use his best efforts to secure the same ; is in favor of
the retention of the Leg. Council under the wise pro-
vision of the English Constitution. He honors the Queen,
the Governments, and subjects, and will strive to support
all effort to secure measures most likely to promote the
lasting peace, health, happiness, and prosperity obtain-
able ; the construction of public works, to create legitimate
employment for the willing and deserving artisans and
laborers of the colony, instead of reducing them to become
undesirable applicants for pauperism ; advocates eight
hours’ work throughout the whole universe ; one man one
vote, but would concede property-owners a further con-
cession.
This alderman wanted to enact the eight-hour sys-
tem through all the planets and fixed stars, and
believed in one-man-one-vote and some-men-a-lot-
more-vote.
Tommy Atkins, it seems, can skite his
“little piece” with the best of ’em. Thus a man
of the Devonshire Regiment, writing home from
Ladysmith
I suppose it is all the rage in England by now how the
gallant Devons charged the enemy. We fairly take it out
of all other troops for bravery. If it had not been for the
Devons that day I am afraid the Ladysmith tarrison
would have stood a very poor chance indeed. It was one
of the most brilliant charges ever known. Color-Sergeant
Palmer, who was with me, killed 12 himself. No doubt
he will get the Victoria Cross.
As a warning to a large number of people
it is worth mentioning that the proprietors of
Condy’s Fluid recently obtained in Australia nine
separate injunctions against persons selling imi-
tations of their well-known disinfectant, closely
imitating their labels, and otherwise trying to
trade on the good name of their old-established
article. The Condy’s Fluid people were success-
ful all round, and made it so distinctly evident
that their preparation can’t be imitated without
severe legal damage and costs that the dealers in
the bogus article had better quit the field.*
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
The big, hearty, man is a continual irritation to
his dyspeptic friend. One man in a hundred is
perfectly healthy. The other 99 have some di-
gestive trouble, and, perhaps, more than 50 per
cent, of these could trace their trouble to that
most prevalent evil —constipation. It’s a simple
thing of itself, but, like many simple things, it
may grow and become complicated. Constipation
is the root of nine-tenths of the sickness of men,
and of a large proportion of the sickness of the
women. It can be cured. It can be cured easily,
naturally and quickly. There is no reason, save
that of carelessness, why it should cause the trouble
that it does. Nature is continually working as
hard as she can to throw off impurities, ana to
force out poisonous refuse matter. Nature is not
a dray-horse, and should not be overworked.
Nature is systematic. Some little thing may
interfere with the system, and cause serious
derangement. The removal of this little impedi-
ment sets the wheels working again without any
trouble. This is exactly what Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills do. They assist nature in a gentle,
healthful, efficient way. They cure constipation—
cure it positively, certainly, infallibly. Cure it so
that it stays cured. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
give you clean bowels, a healthv stomach, a lively
liver, and blood that is rich and red. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills put an appotite into your
stomach, a move in your bowels, life into your
liver and strength in your body. They do not
weaken, do not sicken, do not gripe. They get at
the cause, they start at the foundation. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills stand alono as a perfect
blood purifier, and positively cure biliousness, in-
digestion, dyspepsia, headache, sallow complexion
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples and
blotchos. Price, Is. l£d. per bottle, or six bottles
(is. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. (Australasian Depot) 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. They are packed in amber bottles, and
full name blown thereon.*
In Sydney, for the moment, the plague
seems nearly extinct. Looking at the thing cold-
bloodedly it would be a pity for it to utterly die
out at once. The plague is a watch dog whose
bark shoo’s away a score of other dirt-diseases.
The dying statement of aboriginal Billy
Broome, executed at Brisbane for murder of a
white girl in Wide Bay district, should stir the
easy law-authorities to enquiry. “I am dying
now,” said the man with his last breath, standing
on the drop, “ and it is no use to tell a lie ; but I
did not kill her ; did.” Q. police are so
ashamed of their failure to trace criminals, and so
afraid of public condemnation, that they may
possibly be tempted to hang an innocent man
rather than have another undetected murder cast
in their teeth.
“Ballarat”: In a recent Bulletin par.
somebody enlarges on the career of Duncan Gillies
as a working miner at Ballarat. Dunky was
never a working miner, he was much too cute for
clay-punching. He is recollected first as engine-
driver at the Bluejacket on the old Woolshed
Lead, Sebastopol, and his morlal dislike to going
below was well known. Afterwards he opened a
store. He gravitated from the sugar-bin to the
political arena.
The gallant Australian warrior can better
defend himself against the onslaughts of the most
persistent Boer than can the busy, overwrought
citizen repel the legions of worries which continu-
ously attack him in skirmishing order or close for-
mation. The resisting power of the aforesaid
busy citizen’s garrison of defence, his energising
forces, depends very largely upon whether or not
he is in possession of M'Lean Bros, and Bigg’s
Primus Chief Stove, which by the most scientific
methods of cookery make food so easily digest-
ible as to keep energy and strength up to their
highest standard of efficiency. Said stoves are
the most economical method of securing that
health which achieves success and makes life
worth living. Send for catalogue or call and see
them working. M ‘Lean Bros, and Bigg, Eliza-
beth - street, Melb. ; George - street, Sydney ;
Murray-street, Perth.*
Scrubb’s Cloudy Ammonia And Antiseptic
Soap. —This valuable preparation of refined Am-
monia is a most advantageous substitute for soda.
Not only does it remove grease and other stains
from articles of clothing, furniture, and general
household goods, but for use in the bath and other
toilet purposes it is most efficacious as a cleansing
medium. For the hair it is exceedingly invigorat-
ing, imparting a most desirable lustre. In clean-
ing the hands it is particularly useful, as it does
not cause the same roughness of the skin as follows
the application of soda.
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY, ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO.,
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
RICHMOND, VICTORIA ;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
mn
Why Red Birds Excel
Found only os
1900 Model Red Birdi.
This cut illustrates the construction of a Eed Bird flush joint. Notice
the taper reinforcement, and the three thicknesses of metal wbsre the
greatest strain comes. Other makers use weldless steel tubing and
outside joints in frame construction. We don’t! We use nickel steeL
It costs more, but it makes the best frame; but then, cost isn't taken
into consideration in building Eed Birds.
Our Catalogue for the asking.
Manufactured, Sold and Guaranteed by .
is only oqe ol the many Red Bird Features.
Cbe 6oold Bicycle Co., Ctd.
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Hflents—everywhere.
Aiatralamak Branches :
64 King-st., Sydney, Hm C.<«i»Aurn»u».
261 Collins-st, Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st., Wellington, N.Z.
PRICES: £lO, £l5, £2O, and £3O.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Crack bruisers Felix, Cribb and Tweedie are
training at Auburn (near Sydney) for forthcoming engage-
ments. Cribb is the biggest glutton for work ana “ grub”
among them ; his performances on the road, in the gym.,
and at the table are an eye-opener to everyone, especially
the publican, who’ll want a bit more from the Maori-
lander next time they “ make arrangements.” “ Cocker ”
Tweedie doesn’t take to graft too kindly and has proved
himself a past master at inventing excuses for doing some-
thing else (which he never does) while the others are out.
That Yankee experience with its “done on toast and a
cold bottle every morning ” which Tweedie used to write
about has made the latest “Rocks” development too
luxurious in his notions. Sparring-bouts between lathy-
limbed Felix and Cribb are the funniest imaginable. The
black’s gorilla-like reach tantalises Otto and keeps him off
as if he was glued there. A favorite diversion of Cribb’s
is to get into a paddock with a young bull and goad the
brute into chasing him. Odds are that the man from
M.L. will make a slip one of these days and get impaled.
“ Old Timer ” : Sturgeon’s people are very con-
fident he’ll lick Maorilander Cribb in their fight, July 2.
Sturgeon trains at Seale’s gymnasium, and is expected to
shape up cent.-per-cent, better than before and scale 61b.
heavier. This notwithstanding, Cribb plods along brim-
ful of confidence as ever, has his own fifty in the stake, has
paid the rent of the hall, and wants to make the side-bet
£lOO. When he fought the Bananalander before, Cribb
laid 50 to 20 on himself at the ringside. Reported confi-
dence of the Sturgeon party doesn’t fit in with their atti-
tude re conditions ; they would only let the money go on
a knock-out, while Otto wanted the winner to be named
at the end of the stipulated score, of rounds, or at any
stage should the fight be interfered with by police or
aught else. Cribb was taking a big chance in this, for he
isn’t nearly as clever or quick as Sturgeon.
• * • •
Felix - Doherty affair, for Australian pug.
supremacy, is clinched. Each side has .£lOO up, and fact
of Doherty being licked by Dooley at Fremantle (YV.A.)
entails the posting of another £5O a-side July 2—two
weeks before convincing date. Felix thinks the fight a
“cert.” for him—says he doesn’t see how Doherty can
have a hope ; but there must be something back of it, as
Doherty’s supporters are ’cute people, who would hardly
come unless they held a good hand. Meantime, looks as
if Sydney is going to have a big heavyweight match at
last, after a lapse of years.
* • . ■ •
Thus “ F.,” very much on the other side :
A ridiculous pass the Australian ring has come
to when a darkey of 14st. and 6ft. 3in., who
couldn’t even hurt such an arrant duffer as Tom Ball, is
billed to fight Bill Doherty (barely 12st.) for the cham-
pionship. Shades of Peter Jackson, Paddy Slavin, Joe
Goddard, Mick Dooley and Bob Fitzsimmons, where are
we all going to? We used to say approvingly that
Jackson’s sinewy Arms were hung on wires, and the wires
propelled his fists forwards. Felix lias the wires in his
legs and they work in the opposite direction—three-parts
of tile time he is in the ring being occupied in black-fellow
back-springs out of reach of imaginary leads.
• • • •
Details of Dooley-Doherty battle (at Fremantle)
for Australian supremacy evidence tnat it was lively and
hot from jump. Dooley forced things, and used that
clever left of his as well as ever; Doherty pounded Mick’s
ribs often. Both tired a deal in sixth round—the pace
was so fast. Dooley wont to the boards, forced there,
but pulled himself together and put life into the seventh
round, which, together with what was done in next tenn,
caused Doherty to capitulate. llow Doherty can imagine
he has a chance against Felix, and why his friends are
risking £l5O (stake) and attendant ex.’s after this, and
what Felix did to Doherty before, is a mystery. Money
must be an incubus to them, or Doherty has a lump up
his sleeve.
• « * •
Black Ike Stewart and stocky-built Ted
Arthurs.(of Wyalong) put up a slashing fight at Golden
Gate A.O. (Sydney) Sat. night before a big crowd. De-
clared weights were—Stewart 11, Arthurs 11.2, but writer
would like to bet that the difference was 2st. (not 21bs.)
in favor of the whiter man. From start to finish it was
all go. Ike’s left eye was no use to him after 2nd round,
but he got fairly even by butting his hard woolly nut on
to Arthurs’ left cheek-bone, and opening it badly. There
was a lot of mauling and hitting in clinches throughout.
They punched, pounded, and pummelled like mad until
after round 10, when Arthurs’ lead became pronounced,
but still the darlcie took his gruel well. In the 17th
round a left hook on the point (the only good left-
hander Arthurs sent home) rattled the coal-hued
bruiser and, while he sagged at the knees, another on the
opposite side floored him. He was prone twice after-
wards and was star-gazing when “ corners ’ sounded. Ike
was dead to the world at “ Time ” but his seconds sent
him in. Arthurs did not want to hit, but the referee said
“fight on.” Poor Stewart, limp as a dead snake, stood
the stoush until the police stopped the slaughter. Arthurs
got the verdict.
* * * *
Lawrence Foley no longer fights in the P.R.,
but he has been hitting out pretty strongly in the Law
Courts. His opinion of the lawyers sounds almost like a
punch in the eye.
• • * *
The defeat of Maorilander Tim Murphy by Ah
Neill in ’Frisco makes Neill a very strong card in-
deed. The man who can out Tim in a fair slugging-
match, as this battle appears to have been, must be a
veritable marvel, for in all his battles in this country Tim
won from the moment he really measured and timed
his man with his right hand —just another brother Billy
in fact, and he was never licked at anything near his
weight until he met Griffo, who was clever enough and
quick enough to “ go with the blow ” and was besides in-
sensible to punishment. When writer saw Tim fight here he
really thought we had another champion at last, a world-
beater at list., and on that line he sums up Neill as an ab-
solute cracker-jack who’ll look long for a licking.
* * » *
The ’Frisco mail brought details of world’s
championship fight between Jeffries and Corbett at New
York, May 10. 10,000 people saw it. It was like a bull-
fight—Jeffries was the bull, Corbett the tantalising, tor-
menting toreador. Corbett would advance, threaten, and
as soon as the hairy Hercules charged him, would run like
a deer. By the time the maddened bull realised where he
was being led, Corbett was at him again flaunting a red
flag, annoying him with taps, baiting him with stabs, and
always keeping before him a contemptuous leer that made
the bull shake his head and start to bellow. Round after
round Corbett kept clear of those rushes and lunges,
dodging them when he could not run, closing in when he
could not even dodge, and, for the most part, escaping
clean and whole. A score of times in the first five rounds
Jeffries swung his left with force enough to kill, and on
each occasion the blow just brushed the hair of Corbett’s
head and expended its force in the air. There never was
such an exhibition in the prize-ring. Corbett’s cynical
coolness, his dazzling skill, made thousands of pairs of
eyes gape with wonder. Corbett’s pelt was of
white and smooth as marble, Jeffries' rough and
massive as granite. Grizzly bear ! bull ! buffalo !
mad elephant ! were a few of the expressions that
hurtled across the vast crowd when Jeffries, the
world’s champion, rushed. Corbett sprang a huge
surprise. Rated a back-number he had gotten him-
self into prime trim, and picked up. a deal of his
old-time form. In skill, generalship, and blows of every
sort, Corbett, while he lasted, made Jeffries look a lum-
bering amateur. But Jeffries’ capacity for taking gruel
enabled him'to stand all the rapid deep-cutting jabs fired
into his face, and when Corbett began to tire the giant
boiler-maker, with cyclonic charges, wore liis man down,
and finally dropped him with a left on the point. Right up
to that time (the 3rd round) Jeffries had tried to get
that punch home. Corbett’s only weakness was inability
to hit with the power of a Fitzsimmons or a Sharkey. He
got at Jeffries oftener and better than either of the two
named, but his blows only bruised, they did not beat
down. Once in the 9th round Corbett came near winning ;
h« caught the big fellow on the jaw and had him stag-
genng. For 15 rounds Corbett felt the fight was his—his
face showed it; he laughed at and toyed with Jeffries as
if he were a punching-bag, but just as soon as the cham-
pion began to get some of his terrific body-bashes home
Corbett s race assumed an ashen hue, his eyes bled and
the corners of his mouth were drawn down in an expres-
sion of apprehension. IVhen the finisher came he went
out carrying the sympathy of all inside the immense
structure. Another match was talked about.
• • • •
The long, freckle-faced M.L. fighter, Fitzsim-
mons, figured in a bruising-match at N.Y., April 29—had
giant Dunkhorst (l&t.'j for an opponent. Fitz. scaled
about 12st., and showed before over 4000 people that he
was lively and fit as ever. Besides his big “ pull ”in
poundage, Dunkhorst stood 2in. higher. Fitz. settled
the huge mass m front of him in sniin. 25sec.; it was a
couple of minutes before the Yankee came to after his
cropper consequent upon a heavy right and left in suc-
cession on the point. Dunkhorst was champion-of-the-
world Jeffries’ sparring partner. Odds are that if Jeffries
ever lets himself be persuaded into facing the auburn-
man from Timaru the present ex-champion
will be top dog again ; but Yankee files indicate that
there s an understanding among front-rankers to keep
Bob out altogether. Fitz. is trying to yard any one—
Jeffries, M‘Coy, Sharkey, or the lot in succession, but
they know him too well and aren’t “ taking any.”
• * • *
Pug. ” ; If Lieut. J. F. M. Wilkinson, re-
cently captured by the Boers, had been compelled by cir-
cumstances to take to the ring for a living he’d have * ’got
there.” “ Wine ’’ Wilkinson, as he was called (from his
connection with his lately-deceased father's Coolalta wine
business), was so good with his hands as to be thought
(and proved) good euough to try-out no less a professional
scientist than Steve O’Donnell. I saw him do this when
Steve was training, at the Sir Joseph Banks Hotel, for
his meeting with big Ned Ryan. Steve was in perfect
form, and yet young Wilkinson gave the privileged few a
grand exhibition of four fast rounds, and O’Donnell hit
him hard, too. So hard that on the way per tram to
town he kept asking where he was. Yet he never funked
or allowed anyone to see what a lovely right cross he
stopped with his chin in the third round. Wilkinson has
the grit and the physique for a brave soldier, and was,
and is, a grand all-round athlete, as well as one of the
handsomest men Sydney could show.
• • • •
Seldom does a race-meeting happen at which
sire Lochiel is not represented amongst the winners
There was no racing about Sydney last Saturday on
account of the rain, but elsewhere Lochiel was well
represented. At Newcastle (N.S.W.) two Lochiels won in
(Joal Queen and Uncle ; at Brisbane (Q.) Nevermore won
two races; at Flemington (Vic.) Loch Fad won a race ;
and at Gawler (S. A.) Eoa won two races.
• • • •
Tod Sloan has had another spill on English soil,
and the papers are wondering whether his style of riding
has anything to do with it. Young Kuhn, Sloan’s greatest
imitator this side, had no less than three falls in two days
at Randwick— off Lord Rudolph, Alcestis, and Hi Hi.
• • * *
Some people have the luck of it. S.A. sporting-
man Kenyon is said to have bought Confident for 2gs. and
Confide for ljgs. Former was runner-up to The Grafter
in recent S.A. Stirling Plate, and, according to owner,
would have won but for faulty slipping. Outcome of
argument is that The Grafter and Confident are matched
to contest the best two in three courses for £2OO a-side
Aug. 15. Mr. K.’s other purchase (Confide) won S.a!
Waterloo Plate last week.
* • • •
At recont Q. 1 .C. meet, if a punter had put a
ticket (on both totes) on every horse in every race, he
would have been £73 in pocket at the finish. A similar
investment with the “books” at published odds would
have meant a loss of £36105. A local sport, now deceased,
used to do as above at every Q.T.O. annual. He always
had the best of it, although a stiff upper lip and deep
pocket were often necessary. One meeting,, he was £9O
out at last race, and then Waverley lobbed home paving
£133 ss. for a sov. and £47 for 10s.
* * #
W. R. Wilson’s executors have decided to sell
the St. Alban’s stud by auction in August next.
* * * 0
Dear Bulletin.—Carbine did not “ go off in his
fourth season.” He carried 10.5 and won the Melbourne
Cup and Champion Race as a five-year-old.—Re drop.
* * • *
After topping two-year-old winning list for
seven successive years, M.L. breeder Stead takes a back
seat this season, having to plav third fiddle to J. D.
Ormond’s Renown (£Bl6 55.); Beddington (£Bl4 155.) was
second, and Formosan next with £736 to credit. Mr.
Stead’s seven successive firsts were Strowan (£1266 75.)
Bluefire (£2087 35.), Mannlieher (£1124 165.), Bombshell
(£lOl6 10s.), MultifoWn (£2761 135.), Conqueror (£lB3O
195.), and Screw Gun (£1782). Calculated that prize-
money among M.L. two-year-olds has been more equally
distributed this season than previously. Sum of between
£BOOO and £9OOO has gone amongst 40 of them, and only
10 of the lot got place-money.
* * • *
M.L. politician F. Lawry talks of again intro-
ducing his Bill to legalise consultations in M.L., and says
of 74 M’s. P. sounded 50 have promised support. This is a
surprise, as most people thought that a majority of at
least the Lower House wgs against the proposal. All
the same, writer has-lfiS doubts concerning ultimate suc-
cess, for little support was given the measure before..
• • • •
The danger of throwing old-time trotting-horses
into a handicap was- proved at Christchurch (M.L.) re-
cently, when Dakota made an easy win of a 75sov. 2-mile
handicap. 18 years ago, Dakota, then an aged horse, was
winning races in M.L. The Sydney horse, Garry Owen
was racing in Harry Knight's colors when over 30 years
of age ; and it would be hard to say how near to his half-
century old Commodore was when he last appeared on a
track.
* • * * *
It is pretty customary in long-distance ’chases
in M.L. now-a-days to place red flags at intervals, merely
as guides to riders, but in the long Wanganui steeple
t’other day the three first went inside one of these bits of
red, and the stewards calmly paisad ’em out. They gave
the race to a prad named Scallywag, whose rider was
sauntering along, over half-a-mile behind, in blissful
ignorance of the cash and honor that awaited him when
he got home. Scally paid a big div., and there is dire
trouble over the matter, which was unsettled at time of
writing.
**r • •
Mail news shows that there was still much un-
rest “ down under ” re The Grafter’s win of the rich City
and Sub. Handicap, for which his stable chum, the Aus-
tralian-owned nag Syerla, started first favorite. Report
said that Mr. Clark (owner of Grafter) was kept in the
dark re his horse’s prospects, but “ Vigilant ” (London
Sportsman) says trainer Brewer told him Mr. Clarke was
in half the commission. Other prominent Australians in
London aver that they were told Grafter had no earthly
show—that Syerla was a cert. “ Special Commissioner ”
(another writer on London Sportsman) openly states that
he got the tip from Brewer that The Grafter would score
and wonders why this was volunteered to him when
others more entitled to know were left in the dark. Alf.
Josephs (leader of Vic. ring, nowin England) writes that
Mr. Fitz-Hill makes no secret that he backed Syerla for
owner (“ Oxy ”) to a big tune. The Grafter was favorite
first, then Syerla supplanted him, and just before the
start The Grafter was in strong demand at sevens, while
Syerla went back from that figure to fourteens. Mr.
Hill’s information was that Grafter hadn’t a 100 to 1
chance. London Sporting Times says Bob Sievier (“ Sut-
ton ”) won £30,000 that day, £22,000 coming per medium
of Grafter; also that several “books” clubbed together
and presented one of their number (Goodson) with a big
testimonial “in recognition of his enterprise in laving
1000 to 150 five times to close his liook—these being, per-
haps,-the last bets-that were laid on the race. Same
paper goes on to say that Sievier contemplated raising a
regiment of yeomanry at his own expense, and adds, “ It
is certainly not true that Mr. Tarbeaux will be appointed
adjutant.”
> * • *
Harry Trott is about again, whole and in his
right mind, and as yet ignorant of what hit him. He
does not know that he missed the last cricket season, and
a month or so ago was wondering if he’d pull together for
the ’99 trip.
• * * *
Tom M'Kibbin, the erstwhile Australian Eleven
bowler, is at present in Adelaide, and, in default of some-
thing turning up in that city, means to try his luck in
S’ Africa.
• * • •
Hayward’s feat, in having scored 1000 runs in
English cricket by the end of May, is without a parallel,
and he may now have an opportunity of eclipsing the
record held by Ranjitsinhji of 3159 in a season, made in
’99. Hayward made 2647 runs last season. He is un-
doubtedly the most graceful and finished bat we have
seen in Australia.
• * • •
Surrey Club is trying hard to revive Tom
Richardson this season. Playing against Surrey Juniors,
May Ist, the old-time fast bowler took 8 wickets for 81
runs.
• * • •
Marylebone C.C., the wealthy club which owns
Lord’s Ground and bosses the world’s cricket, had a
revenue of £82,600 last season, including over £30,000
from new life-members.
• « • •
Dave Strickland, the W.A. sprinter, who won
Stawell Easter Gift, had to wait several weeks before that
immaculate organisation, the Stawell Athletic Club, could
realise that the performances submitted in his entry were
correct. Meanwhile, a long correspondence was being
conducted between the “ untarnished ” club and the
sporting potentates of W.A. as to Strickland’s bona fides.
Strickland, utterly disgusted and tired of waiting, con-
sulted a lawyer, who wrote the club intimating that if
the prize-money were not paid over before a given date a
writ would be issued. This proved effective. In acknow-
ledging the letter, the club’s scribe had the nerve to
enquire at same time whether the solicitor was any rela-
tion to a certain disqualified athlete bearing the same
name 1 Does the result of such stringent search go to
show the class of men our peds. are composed of, or the
existence of a bitter local enmity towards the honest
visitor who beat the favorite ?
» • • •
Steve Gordon, Australia’s dusky cyclist, has, we
are told, abandoned his projected trip to America.
Though his brilliant dash on interprovincial tracks last
•season won him many scratch races, he never annexed a
championship. At the final meeting, on Melb. Exhibition
track, a mile championship was run, and as the two top-
notchers, Walne (beaten in his heat) and Jackson
(through an accident) failed to qualify for the final, it was
reasonable for Gordon to assume that, bar accident, the
long-looked-for championship medal was his. But the
unexpected again happened— old Tas. oarsman F.
Beauchamp crossed the line before him. It is essential in
the U.S. for an Australian rider to show proof of having
won a provincial or interprovincial championship ere
being allowed to compete in classic events there. This
may account for Gordon abandoning the trip.


WE CAREFULLY GUARD
THE INTERESTS
OF SMOKERS
m
m
2?
K
V.
s
<O.
V
BY MAKING . « .
DERBY TOBACCO
Ask for Derby.
A SYNONYM FOR PURITY
The MODERN ART JEWELLERY COMPANY
N.S.W. Lancers’ Brooch, with Enamel Flags.
IN SOLID GOLD. Price 18/6.
IiHIWWWiW'gWW
1
OLD Lee-Motford Cartridge Brooches. Price 11/6.
Gold Lee Metford Rifle Rrooeh. Price. 5/6.
With Gold Chains and Pins, price 8/6.
187 Pitt-street, Sydney
(directly opposite Civil Service Stores).
Latest War Souvenirs.
MAFEKING’S HERO.
Baden-Powell
Gold Pendants. Price 7/6.
In Silver, 2/-
GOLD Lee Metford Cartridge
Charms or Gold Pins. Price 5/0.
1000
Different Gold
War Souvenirs
to Choose -from at 187
Pitt Street.
THE LONDON BANK OF AUSTRALIA, Ltd.
subscribed CAPITAL £l ’K?2
PAID-UP 014,915
UNCALLED, INCLUDING RESERVE LIABILITY 730,105
BALANCE SHEET, 31st December, 1899.
LIABILITIES.
& *. d.
Cahtal
40,103 Ordinary Shares of
£3O each.. .. ..;
Lees :
Uncalled &
Reserve
Liability 736,545 0 0
Calls in
arrear .. 1,750 0 0
Amount prepaid by Trus-
tees in respect of Un-
called Capital and Re-
-17,103 5} per cent. Cumulative Preference
Shares of £lO each fully paid (on which
the Dividend has been paid to 30th
June, 1896) 171,930 0 0
914,015 0 0
Notes in Circulation .. .. .. .. 155,532 10 0
Transferable Deposits .. ~ .. 2,232,675 410
Other Deposits and Current Accounts .. 2,404,159 11 8
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (in-
cluding Reserves for Doubtful Debts).. 888,262 17 6
Balance of Undivided Profit .. .. 19,628 12 9
£6,615,173 16 9
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Cash Balances, and Notes
of other Banks
Money at Call and short notice in London
Investments and Bills Receivable..
Bills Discounted, Advances, and other
Assets of Bank
Bank Premises..
£ s. d.
773.223 5 1
145,000 0 0
918.223 6 1
1,042,869 9 1
4,272,381 2 7
381,700 0 0
£6,615,173 16 5)
PROFIT & LOSS ACCOUNT For the year ended 31st December, 1899.
£
s. d.
To Charges, comprising Directors’ and
Auditors’ Fees, Salaries and all other
Expenses at Head Office, Branches and
Agencies 68,473 7 2
„ Land Tax and Tax on Note Issue .. 2,816 18 9
„ Interest at 41 per cent, on the Transfer-
able Deposits for the year, 1899 .. 115,640 8 3
„ Balance of Undivided Profit .. .. 19,628 12 9
£206,559 6 11
By Balance carried forward as per last
Report
„ Profits in London and in Australia
after providing for Interest due and
accrued on current Deposits, deducting
Rebate on Bills, and making provision
for Bad and Doubtful Debts
£ s. d.
4,572 9 7
201,980 17 4
£206,559 6 11
We hereby certify that the above Balance Sheet
is, in our opinion, a full and fair Balance Sheet,
properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and cor-
rect view of the Bank’s affairs as shoion by the books
of the Bank in London and the returns from Aus-
tralia.
PRICE, WATERHOUSE & CO., Auditors.
JAMES F. GARRICK,
R. ROME,
GEO. MILLER,
■Directors.
F. J. CURTIS, Secretary.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on pape
27 of this issue?*
Mr. ROBERT BYRNE
HAS AGAIN RESUMED BUSINESS AS
Land and Estate Agent,
333 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Next to Commercial Bank. Established 1853.
Prompt attention to Communications.
“A TRIP TO THE RACES.”
(Human Races).
“IMPERIAL” Bicycles for 1900 just landed,
fitted with Westwood steel rims and Dunlop tyres.
Agents wanted where not already represented in
Australasia. Write for catalogue. Buy your bicycle
from the factory at factory prices.
A few Second-hand Machines fitted with new tyres and in
good order, all of well-known makes. A post-card will
bring vou a list. “Duck” brakes and carriers will fit
any bicj'cle. Oil and Gasoline Engines for launches,
electric lighting, pumping, cordial factories, printing and
general power, from 1 h.p. tosoh.p.
J. F. McDermott and Company,
Sole General Agents in Aus. for “ IMPERIAL ” Bicycles.
Central Depot—37 MARKET STREET, BYDNEY.
VI _ _
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there Is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Ellis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 60 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Otlloe.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Legal Notices.
NOTICE TO CREDITORS.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALKS.
IN EQUITY.
No. 895*.
Between REGINALD BRIDGE and AUGUS-
TUS MeEVILLY Plaintiffs and AMELIA
BRIDGE Ernest John Bridge Clarence
Walter Bridge St. Clair Joseph Bridge Lionel
James A. Bridge Norbert 11. Bridge Leslie
Bridge Elvina Bridge Emily Manning
Florence Kelly Mary Bridge C. F. Garvan
and John Bridge and Company Limited De-
fendants.
Tuesday, the fifth day of June in the year One
thousand nine hundred.
PURSUANT to the decree pronounced herein
on the fourth day of May last past the oredi-
toas of John Bridge late of Sydney in the Colony of
New South Wales Woolbroker deceased who died
on the eighteenth day of October in the year One
thousand eight hundred and ninety-seven are to
send to Messrs. McEvilly and McEvilly of 13
Castlereagh-street Sydney the Solicitors for the
Plaintiffs herein on or before the twenty-first day
of July next their Christian and surnames ad-
dresses and descriptions and full particulars of their
claims and a statement of their accounts and the
nature of the securities held by them or in default
thereof they will be. excluded from the benefit of
the said decree. Every creditor holding any
securities is to produce the same before the Master
in Equity of this Honorable Court at his office in
the Supreme Court House Chancery Square King-
street Sydney on an appointment being taken out
and notice given of the time appointed for the
adjudication of their claims.
H. F. BARTON,
McEvilly & McEvilly, Master in Equity.
Solicitors for Plaintiffs,
13 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OFI
NEW ZEALAND, OTAGO AND VNo. 148.
SOUTHLAND DISTRICTS. J
UNDER “The Divorce and Matrimonial
Causes Act 1867” and the Amend-
ments thereof and “The Divorce Act,
• 1898.”
VICTORIA, by the Gaace of God, of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Ireland, Queen, Defender of the Faith.
TO
JANE STEDMAN, of Dunedin in the
Provincial District of Otago in the
Colony of New Zealand, and
BENJAMIN MOLLISON DUTHIE, of
Dunedin, aforesaid accountant.
WHEREAS Samuel Richard Stedman of
Dunedin in the Provincial District of
Otago in the Colony of New Zealand Cycle expert
claiming to have been lawfully married to you the
said Jane Stedman has filed his petition against
you the said Jane Stedman and Benjamin Molli-
son Duthie in our said Court praying for a decree
dissolving the said marriage with you the said
Jane Stedman and ordering you the said Benja-
min Mollison Duthie to pay the costs of this suit
wherein he alleges that you the said Jane Stedman
have been guilty of adultery with you the
said Benjamin Mollison Duthie NOW this is to
command you that on or before the twenty-first
day of July one thousand nine hundred you and
each of you do appear in our said Court then and
there to make answer to the said Petition AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that in default of
your so doing the said Court will proceed to hear
the said charge proved in due course of law and to
pronounce sentence therein your absence notwith-
standing AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are to attend
in person or by your Solicitor at the
Office Dunedin aforesaid and there to enter an
appearance in a book provided foi* that purpose
without which you will not be allowed to address
the Court either in person or by counsel at any
stage of the proceedings in the cause.
DATED at Dunedin this twenty-eighth
day of May one thousand nine hun-
dred.
(Sgd.) G. A. KING,
(L.S.) Deputy Registrar.
THIS CITATION is extracted by Saul Solo-
mon, Solicitor for Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the office of the said Saul Solomon,
112 Princes-street, Dunedin, aforesaid.
Chenall and Eddie,
Solictors, Sydney,
Agents for
Saul Solomon,
Solicitor, Dunedin.
London Outlook remarks that Federal delegate
Alfred Deakin has, in the matter of being ready
to fall in with Chamberlain’s schemes for
mutilating the Federal Constitution, “shown
signs of sweet reasonableness wherever he has
banqueted without his fellows.” In other words,
he has fallen more easily, and been more readily
beguiled by liquor and greasy provender. Barton
and Kingston are hardened eaters of long
standing, and Fysh is a dry and wary veteran,
but Deakin is of softer material and has been led
away by “prog.” His laudation of Chamber-
lain’s proposed new clause (which is now found
to be such a pitiable muddle that it is to be wholly
re-cast) was a sad thing to read. If only the
sturdy Turner had been sent instead of this glib
and oily enthusiast things might have been differ-
ent. An unemotional man, not to be moved to
hysterical complaisance by the glare of uniforms
and silver plate, and the smell of food, was the
kind required.
R. D. Meagher, M.P., wrote to the Sydney papers
last week on the subject of the trouble between
the local military and the city “ push. He
headed his letter “ Military Terrorism, and con-
cluded as follows: —
Let those in authority understand that if this military
patrol business in our streets and public buildings is per-
sisted in, and the Hobart incident [where a lot of Hntisn
blue-jackets, having no votes in Australia, lnterniptea
and hustled Mr. Holman, an Austraban M.P. who was
making an aiti-Jingo speech] encouraged, Australian
Democracy will arise in its might and eradicate the nascent
octopus of military terrorism before it can stretch its ten-
tacles across this continent.
The military authorities afterwards took steps to
end the trouble, and, inter alia, prohibited the
artillerymen from leaving barracks after fi p.m. in
uniform. Meagher meanwhile apparently be-
came frightened lest he might be regarded as a
traitor to “ his Queen and Empire,” and on Satur-
day last wrote another letter protesting against
the tyrannous treatment that was being meted out
to the military. This letter ended thuswise :
I trust that, in justice to the men, and in justice to the
common-sense of the community and the good name of
the colony, the men will not be curtailed in their liberties,
and that the Queen’s uniform will be as fearless and as
proudly worn in Sydney as in any city of the Empire ; and
if it is to be insulted and assaulted, and the plain-clothes
constables prove inadequate, there is still enough of the
good old stock that has sent its blood and muscle to South
Africa left who will co-operate in such a manner that the
Queen’s uniform will be worn in the streets for all time,
without further trouble or hysterical regulations.
He appropriately headed his second letter
“ Right-about Turn ! ”
An engineer employed on a section of the
Cape-to-Cairo railway mentioned, in a recent
letter to a friend in England, that he and his
mates had heard that “ some war was going .on”
to the south of them, and would like to get full
particulars.
At Poverty Point.
Mrs. Howie, the Maoriland contralto now in Sydney as
an adjunct to Rev. Charles Clark’s lecture-entertainment,
is a daughter of Major Porter, of Gisborne (M.L.), and as
a girl was accounted the most beautiful of Maori half-
castes. She is now a magnificent woman of goodness
only knows how many stone weight, and has the voice of
a heavy-weight angel. She is a sister-in-law to Mr. W.
Epps, of Sydney, one-time secretary of N.S.W. National
Association.
“ Viator” : The trail of the rodent is overus all. Writer
went to see “ White Heather ” at Brisbane lately.
Bland Holt boom on ; also plague ditto. Fat lady to
right, before seating, carefully sprinkled her chair with
something out of a bottle that smelt like carbolic and
ammonia. Edwin and Angelina on left thoughtfully
munched cinnamon-drops until after the first act, when
he pushed out, admonished in an Irish whisper to “ get
two pots.” Thought it was beer, but he soon returned
with two pots—of phosphor paste. No wonder the inter-
mission drink tasted of chloride of lime.
The first night of “ East Lynne” at Sydney Criterion
Manager Buller, otherwise O’Hara of “Robbery Under
Arms,” was sorely perplexed. He had occasion to sup-
press a gilded-looking Johnnie for heaving chocolates
across the d.c. at a kindred spirit with a silk handkerchief
round its neck. When the low-comedy man came on the
theatre was startled by a series of horrible somethings
between a yelp and a guffaw. They came from the lately
suppressed one. Manager Buller had a sneaking suspicion
that it was not the gentleman’s usual way of laughing,
but on examining him closely it seemed natural enough,
and if a man laughs with the only laugh that Providence
furnished him with no legal action can lie against him
(.teste the Peacock case). Then the scene was changed.
Lady Isabel was pleading piteously and dying of a broken
heart in the limelight, and great gasps and sobs and cries
of grief came from that portion of the darkened d.c.
where the man with the laugh was sitting. Then Buller
determined to heave the Boer out, but when he arrived at
the seat he found the culprit with his hands over his face
crying loudly, while great, genuine tears trickled through
his fingers. It was impossible to eject even a very deaf-
ening person for being so deeply moved at the acting of
the boss’s daughter, so O’Hara, of Maginnis and O’Hara,
again retired discomfited. But he waylaid the noisy one
on the stars when the show was over, and further in-
spected him. He was still weeping. It was quite real.
Sydney Evening News’ theatrical scribe, referring to
Nance O’Neil’s probable impersonation, later on, of
Lady Macbeth, gravely observes that “ it will be advisable
to strengthen the supports.” Nance’s tonnage does need
a lot of support J
The Rickards Co. had a good time t’other night at
Sydney Tivoli. Up in one of the boxes sat a coloured
gentleman—in fact he was a black man, but he appenred
to be heavily gilded, for whenever anything pleased him
he heaved a sovereign on the stage. He was pleased no
less than eight times.
Rickards’ “ New Tivoli ” Theatre opens in Adelaide
on Wednesday, June 20th., with a strong variety co.
The theatre and premises are owned by an Adelaide
Boniface from whom Rickards has a ten years’ lease.
Melb. Age critic on Nance O’Neil: “The floral offerings
and repeated calls at each curtain amply showed how
deeply she had impressed the house.” The newspaper
man affects a wondrous artlessncss on the subject of
vegetable tributes and first-night applause.
Dear Bulletin, —I have written a Plague drama and
want your help to persuade Williamson to produce it.
Plot is as follows : —Act 1. Hero unjustly accused of hav-
ing Bubonic, is dogged by heavy villain in guise of ambu-
lance-man who wants the hero’s Sussex-street wharf. Act
2. Hero taken to Quarantine-station—on forged medical
certificate—and there nursed by heroine. Sensational
escape in Manly boat (fare (id.)' and reeanture. Act 3.
Virtue victorious, villain unmasked, proved to be Sydney
alderman. Deeds found in his pocket wrapped round a
poisoned rat. Villain forcibly washed and condemned to
14years in Bondi sewer. Deeds disinfected, lovers inocu-
lated, curtain. Humor supplied by Bland Iloltian
insurance agent who, armed with hypodermic syringe and
free passes to infected area, offers to tike anybody's life.
Emotional women like Bernhardt and Duse are better
suited to play Camille than Magda, for old Schwartze’s
first-horn is a harder type of spinster than la dame, aux
canielias , though notso hard and theatrical as Nance
O’Neil tries to make us believe. Australia has seen
one tall, handsome actress whose nervous art would revel
in the Magda character—Geraldine Olliffe. The greatest
charm of Miss Olliffe’s performance of Mrs. Tanqueray was
in her pathetic suggestions of self-fepr6aoh. She seemed so
conscious of her inability to master her crazy temper, and
yet so anxious to find justification for her wrong-headed-
ness. Now, in Nance O’Neil’s Magda there is no sugges-
tion of mental struggle whatever. When she looks at the
parson and asks, “ How is it that you have such an in-
fluence over me?” the suggestion of the alleged influence
begins and ends with the author’s words.
W'allace Brownlow’s representation of the gallant cap-
tain in “Pinafore” is smart and breezy, but much too
young for the father of Josephine. Brownlow has been
getting more and more youthful on the stage ever since
he made his Australian debflt as the bearded Henri of
Navarre. . The most imposing Captain Corcoran whom
Melbourne has seen (and his singing proved quite equal to
the occasion) was surgeon O’Hara. He played the part
with an amateur co. at the Princess’s for two or three
nights, the alternate Josephines being Leonora Orelli and
Juliet Wray (then known by her proper name—Juliet
Flegeltaub. In those days, the stalwart O’Hara was
figuring at concerts as a baritone singer, but he soon grew
tired of seeking the Bubble reputation on the platform.
Nance O’Neil’s mighty arms and her athletic way of
introducing them into drama suggest that M‘Kee Rankin
may have “ discovered ” the powerful goddess at a ladies’
gymnasium or calisthenics academy. Anyhow, Nature
intended those anus for dumb-bell exercise.
A Melbourne penwoman says : “ The unconventional
Magda makes her entry into the home she disgraces in an
evening cloak of white corded silk.” Coming from an in-
telligent member of Magda’s sex this is interesting. In
the play a tyrannical old fool of a father commands his
broad-minded self-respecting daughter to marry a parson,
for whom she has no sense of affinity, mental or physical,
and because she refuses to prostitute herself under
orthodox conditions the girl is driven from home by the
parent aforesaid. When she has achieved a great position
in the world where she was turned loose to do as she
pleased, when she is the Bernhardt of th" lyric stage by
virtue of the natural talent which she dedicated to the
service of her natural child, Magda reappears at the old
home and is a disgrace to it, says the lady journalist.
How these dear creatures love their dogmas !
“C.M.G.”: A labored conclusion is what ails “The
Professor’s Love Story.” The comedy is like Ben Halli-
day’s horse that died ten miles back, only the rider
wouldn’t let him down. The shadows on the blind that
tail-off the play at great length represent a small, super-
fluous pantomime in silhouettes dragged in after the
comedy is really over. The tale wants docking.
Wallace King, the tuneful Tivoli tenor, was the first
vocalist to sing “Sally Horner” in America, where he
warbled it in every state save Florida. Later on he in-
troduced Sally to London ; and since then song and singer
have been inseparably linked. A fine well-preserved pair
they are —Wallace and Sweet Sally.
“E.D.”: Am delighted to disagree almost utterly with
the latest-expressed Bulletin opinion of Miss Nance
O’Neil, whose “large, loud performance,” says the writer,
“ lacks feeling and variety.” It appears to me that the
man who finds Magda, as represented by Miss O’Neil,
lacking in feeling, has had his nerve-cells made callous by
the familiar bombast of the average so-called emotional
actress. I find the big woman a grand well-spring of
profound feeling—there is a sense of an ocean behind the
pellucid outpouring. That she appears to your writer to
be “out of the picture ” is a tribute to her fine intelligence,
for the picture is the Home, against the soul-binding con-
ventions of which every fibre of the woman she depicts is
in fierce revolt. “ Large ” she is by the will of God—
“ loud ” never. Loudness is expected from that abundant
physique, but you get, in the vivid scenes with the lover,
the pastor, and the father, only concentration to a point
of cutting intensity. Of small faults there are many, but
they are the spots on the sun, for Miss Nance is more than
a star. My conviction is that I have seen no one to equal
her for volutn;, and when her immense resource of
dramatic power is under more disciplined control she may
be the tragedy-queen of a generation. As for Suder-
mann’s play, cut it and it will bleed ; hot a detail is
superfluous. What 98 playwrights out of a hundred would
hustle on the stage Sudermann discards; he gives only
the climax—the climax of many lives.


“A factory is a place where a number of
people work together to simplify the process of
appropriating their earnings to one.”
There seems ample room for “deserted-
mine ” literature in Westralia to-day. Writes a
Bulletin correspondent:—
It is a case of “ Ichabod! ” as far as Coolgardie, Bulong,
Kanowna, Broad Arrow, Meuzies and Bardoc ar« con-
cerned. Coolgardie has settled down hopelessly on the
rocks. Except Bay ley’s (which is still “ one of the best")
and Burbank’s (a fair show), it has not a mine to boast
about, and the place that its residents were accustomed
to swear at as the 24-Mile Siding—Kalgoorlie—has out-
stripped it in every way. Hannan’s has the mines and is
the railway centre, and consequently distributor to the
coming northern fields. Bayley-street is a desert. You
can hardly count a dozen people in it during the busiest
portions of the day. Down the Exhibition end the shops
are all vacant with that mark of utter desolation—windows
all broken. The “To Let” legend of the shops shows
they are all owned by Afghans. No one seems to be buv-
mg or selling anything. Those palatial residences built
for liquidating English attorneys out of the capital in-
tended to develop the mines are left to the rats, which
are overrunning Coolgardie. Houses are being moved
, j us to Kal ? oor lie ; and, worst sign of all in a
goldfields town, the “pubs” are not paying rent. Places
like Bulong, Menzies, and Broad Arrow, which were built
up on a single mine, are in a bad way. Broad Arrow
called into existence by the Hill End mine, boasts seven
licensed premises ; and Heaven and the police only know
how many unlicensed. There are about 300 people
round about ‘ Bung” Arrow scratching out some kind
of a precarious living—the licensed publican must, there-
fore, have some difficulty in paying the rent and rates and
taxes, not to mention “ knocking out tucker." These
once prosperous mining centres are absolutely played out,
and are gradually being given over to the blacks. Even
now, their few inhabitants only seem to get a living by
“ taking in one another’s washing.”
“ T'othersider ” writes from Westralia :—
Let me introduce to you some of the people who oppose
Federation in this weary land. At a meeting of Moora
(W.A.) Farmers’.'Association a prominent member held
forth thus : 11 Federation is no good for us farmers. .Vow,
the first thing they’ll do if we federate is they’ll build a
railway from Melbourne to Coolgardie and pour in their
produce and tomatoes and stuff just as fresh as we can.
Why shouldn’t they? It’s only a matter of 600 mile or
so .' ” Result: Federation damned. And yet we call the
Boers ignorant !! At same meeting the subject of tele-
graphic money-orders was discussal, and another mem-
ber got up with a very “heavy ” air and said : “ Well, I
don’t hold with them telegraph money-orders. It ud be
well enough if the line went straight to Perth, but it
don’t —the messages is taken off at Walebing, and our
money might be taken off too ” !!! fN'.B. —Walebing is
the repeating-station.)
A returned warrior from S’Africa says that
the chocolate served out to the soldiers has given
such good sustentative results that chocolate is
sure to be permanently adopted as one of the
staples in field-kits. Another wrinkle we are
picking up from the ancients. Chocolate (Mexican
Kn Kahuatl) is a paste from the pounded seeds of
the cacao plant. When the Spaniards first made
their way into the interior of Central America
they were astonished to find that for money the
natives used cacao-seeds, and it is remarkable that
while the cities, the customs and the religion of
the once-powerful Maya races have been swept
into oblivion, their cacao-seed currency should, m
the remoter districts, have survived to this day.
“There are a lot of vessels,” remarked
an expert witness at Vic. Glenelg-disaster inquiry,
casually stroking his chin, “that I wouldn’t go
down to the Sugar Works in.” Why didn’t the
Marine Board ask him for names, and test his
charges, in the Public Interest ?
The summit of absurdity was scaled by a
Melb. Herald interviewer who called upon Mr.
Marks, the local consul for Japan, to ask him
whether there would be war over the Corea
question. And Marks said, “Japan desires
peace, but will fight to the death, if necessary,” in
a tone which suggested that Marks and the
Mikado had come to a definite understanding re
the possible annihilation of the Jap. race.
m
SAUCE
HAS STOOD THE TEST
FOR AGES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Agents—VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN *nd DAVID COHEN h CO., Sydney.
Patcot Sbccp-Braodiog LiqCiid.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grimwade & Go.
MELBOURNE.
A *°" tB -E. RICH & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Black, Red, aixd Blue. 3s Oc3L
P er e aIL ln 3VTolt>. and Sydney; 3s 9d per gall. In Brlalba:
THE PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION Ltd
WOOL & SELLIIVG BROKET? g
Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
■mjs; famous nBM:£;D3r for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, ,\NI) CONSUMPTION,
HAS. THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
h f Ve taken th ”! ama ?. ed at itel wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness Pain or
wwln «ll!vin Ch -' > experience delightfulland immediate reliefand to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure It is most com
npvprwlllw irritation m the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption todevelop. Consumption has
and a CompleL g Wedicine ‘ No h — be without it, as. taken at the banning, a dose l geneSy sufficient!
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
‘DOTVKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
||re you Too Stout ?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALINC REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney. ’
dja.lt©
(MMTT Kli).
Illawarral,
»oar SYDKTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
m
m
-: ■ •
MAKERS OP
“S. Co of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
“ ILLAWARRA”
• . BLi AND OF. .
SOFT LEAD.
rchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS WE RS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia Ltd DAPTn m a
— ______ ’’ riU) w - ; or Martin ' Place, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable,”
London Medical Erccr.D.
FOOD for
INFANTS
9
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by-
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
VALIDS
AND
the aged.


hMRASSMUSSEN’S alfaline herbal remedies
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
How to Prevent the BUBONIC PLAGUE and other Fevers.
Pills once
Blood is i
Take a Hot Bath daily before meals, and rub the skin well after-
wards; apply Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil freely to the Clothing,
Handkerchief, and take 4 drops on a piece of loaf sugar each
Evening when going to bed; take two Alfaline Liver and Kidney
llli ' l " 1,1 , .. + .„ *nr a ii ne Eucalyptus Jujubes freely; if the Nerves are weak take the Alfaline Vitality Pills for a month or two; if the
or twice a week if Constipated, use t . Aif a |j ne Eucalyptus Oil and Jujubes and the Alfaline Herbal Remedies are absolute PREVENTATIVES AGAINS
mpure take the Alfaline Blood Pills. xne M,T ‘* ,, " e BUBON f£ PLAGUE AND ALL OTHER FEVERS. .
ALF ALINE
Vitality Pills
are the niost Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for al
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Alfaline Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BuXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want ol Appetite, Congestion.
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, " ONE SHILLING.
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY^FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons 7
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
*
m
«f
HERR RASSMUB3EN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIBT,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that his
A Ifaline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
Head Office, o r
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Pate a t Med icine
dealers for the genuine
Aljaline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Aljaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERB RASSMUSSEN'S FREE BOOK,
“ALF ALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSmUSSeib
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans Rassmussen.
ADVICE FREE.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills- Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for ( oughs, Colds, consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
hut also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes. Os. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets-An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no mailer how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder- Builds up
and Strengthens the S.tst’ in, improves ttie figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, On Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautiflor-A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating l’imples ana
Freckles, and wo derful f >r Beautifying tfie Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and On Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for pi eventing the liuir turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxiniant beards and mbusiaches. Posted, 3s. and Os.
Alfaline Worm Powdors-Dcstroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable, l’aokels, Is. ; posted, Is. Oil.
Alfalino Eucalyptus Oil Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents levers and
influenza. Bottles, Is; posted, Is Od.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Golds ami Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is Od.
Alfalino Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunion*. Bottles, Is.
Alfalino External Pile Powder-Boxes, Os.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfalino Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Bolts -Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 03s. Send for all particulars.
Alfalino Electric Suspondor Bandage This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
• lfiO Queon-st (near Creek-st.) / ADELAIDE; 154 Rundle-st.(nr.York H’tel) \ PERTH, W. A.: Hay-st. (next Royal Theatre)
MFf.TOmjffSnsO Bonrke-Bt. ( .pp. NiZ., WELLINGTON: 91 Lambtonftuay }] KALGOORLIE: Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s)
Nasty rumours are getting abroad about
the conduct of the De Beers gang during the siege
of Kimberley. One story is that there was great
friction between a civil potentate and the Colonel
in command. Kekewich is said to have declined
to drink champagne and eat tinned truffles when
the people were starving on horse-flesh, and the
babies and children were “dying like flies” for
want of farinaceous food and milk. He is also
said to have raided De Beers’ premises often and
vainly in order to find the secret stock of luxuries,
on which certain notables were living gorgeously,
to pass it over to the Children’s Hospital.
“Iris” to The Bulletin on certain Vic.
school matters:—
The evils of the former Peacock regime in Vic. Educa-
tion Dept, are fast coming home to roost, in the shape of
numerous complaints of buildings going to ruin for lack
of a pot of paint; of unhygienic overcrowding (in some
cases more than 80 children to a room 6yds. sq.); and of-
the absolute lack of school-accommodation in some dis-
tricts. Much has been done to remove the obstacles to
promotion that were so long encouraged for economic
reasons ; but there still remains the hindrance of allowing
teachers to reduce themselves in class to escape the
dreariness of bush-life. If an 8th class town-school is
vacant, a wayback 7th class teacher invariably applies
and gets preference over all lower classes, thus blocking
their advancement, whilst his own place will probably be
filled by a temporary reliever. The grievous discrepancy
of salaries is felt more keenly, because high salaries and
disability generally go hand in hand, the more modern
trained junior at £1 a week usually doing more effectively
the same work as one of the old Six-Pounders, who even-
tually retire on a pension equal to an ordinary salary, as
salaries go now. It was one of these wallflowers of the
service who used to cover her caligraphic inexpertness
(when asked to “sign” for her monthly £28) with—-
“ Sure, an’ the master alius signs for me since I hurled
methoomb!” The fiery Jingo will be pleased to learn
that the geography of the British Empire is considered a
sufficient knowledge of the world for all but the highest
class, who have Europe and the U.S. thrown in ; the rest
of the world doesn’t exist, as far as Vic. Education Dept,
is concerned. , .
Again, it is proposed to add to the curriculum clay-
modelling, manual training, and a host of other things.
Primary education is a question of teaching a few' things
well or many badly ; and, though nobody denies the use-
fulness of the suggested additions, the point is that,
unless they are taught effectively, they will be only taking
time from other things. The latest kindergarten expert
from ’Ome has practically confessed inability to instruct
30 teachers at once, by dividing them into three classes of
10 each. And, if an expert cannot teach at once more
than 10 presumedly developed intelligences, anxious to
learn, how can an every-day teacher instil the same
lessons into a class of SO or 90 play-loving infants, with
powers of comprehension just beginning to dawn .
Pictures aren’t much good for teaching children, says
this expert, “ where possible, bring in the animal itself.
What about the rat in this connection, just now?
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society.
S. Harvey, Ltd.,
London, S.E.
n
mn
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
KMBRACING
MEDICAL COJVIIVIOIV SENSE.
Bv Du. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
liage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
ils fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information ein-
-1 laced in its covers.
►SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easv. is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is (id.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art or Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love,Dress,etc. ls6dpost.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 Ulus. Is6d posted
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Lkttei
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history)
Is 6d posted.
Editii O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, ls6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OK SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
for making delicious Custards without eggs
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice
DELIC.OUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS, to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOOOALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon. Orange. Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors:—GOOD ALL., BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS,
Sole Travelling Representative:JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco.Perth.W.A.a
England.
>B.King St.,Melbourne
Medical.
Bubonic Plague
£
m
REGISTERED.
Can be Prevented
By Using
ECKERSLEY'S
Iflentholine.
All Chemists.
Large Size 2/6; Small /-
Wholesale from
Australian
Co.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. 1 am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. R00T, 28, Endslelßh Gdns., LONDON
HEALTH anp strength
■ 1 may be secured without inconvenience or attention
on the part of the person taking Dr. HOPE’S LIFE
SYRUP (liquid or pill form). Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day to day. Are you a Sufferer from bad health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition? Do you feel generally debilitated?
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
The Life Syrup Will Cure You.
Price JO/- mid tiO/- ; Course 40/-
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis
orders are cured, and in many cases by diet alone, posted
six stamps. Address : —HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145
Collins-street. MELBOURNE. I’.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
STOPS COLD
This Well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Safe and pleasmt for Children.
m
n
“ I use a good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear i f good
results. >fy brother, who had Wh oping
Cough and' could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.’’— E. M. D., The Elms,
June, 1898. Faringdon.
AGENTS—Elliott; Hoffnung ; DrerdiD;
A. Drug Co.; Felton; Fanlding; Falk.
CURES COUGH


Pi esse, W.A. Railway Minister, has
intimated to the local Engine-drivers and Fire-
men’s Union that in future it won’t be “recog-
nised.” Any employe with a grievance must
approach the great Panjandrum personally.
What Piesse expects to gain by this isn’t clear.
The Panjandrum will have to interview a dozen
oily and dusty men separately where one man
used to be sufficient. And the union will still
exist, and if it orders a strike or other unpleasant-
ness Piesse’s non-recognition of the union won’t
prevent the union making just the same mess of
Piesse’s railways. If a tiling exists a wise man
recognises its existence.
SOLDIERS
nr or ™ e QUEEN”
CHARMS.
Solid
Gold
Mounts
(Crystal
Classes).
m
-/9
'NIVId
Hand-Painted In
Permanent
Colors,
6/6
Each Charm contains a Photograph of
her majesty the queen,
And any one of the following “ Soldiers of the
Queen ”:
Lord Roberts
Major-General Baden-Powell
General Sir George White
General Sir R. Buller
General Lord Methuen
General Sir A. Hunter
General French
Major-General Macdonald
and others.
(POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.)
H. NEWMAN
175 & 177 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
E V.
Amusements.
CHARLES
and the
ANGLO-MAORI
CLARK
GIFTED ANGLO-MAORI CONTR ALTO
te-rangi-pai
(MRS. HOWIE).
EJSK,* to ““ B^ur V .
FAREWELL ENTERTAINMENTS
BRILLIANT ORATOR th<!
and the
SPLENDID VOCALIST
„ VT ,vrv T W 1" be ?! ven as follows :
SIDNEY June 12th to 16th; MELBOURNE, June 18th
to 22nd ; ADELAIDE, June 26th to 27th.
Mr. Clark sails for England by the Ophir next day.
FAREWELL FOR EVER !
R. S. SMYTHE.
H E £, I 'f AJEBT V’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
R„« Lesse ® and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o'clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
1990. ANNUAL OPERA SEASON. 1900.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
HC.M;.s. Pinafore
Accorded a Most Hearty Welcome. *
Plan, Nicholson’s. IW PRICES-ss„ 3s„ 25.. and Is.
“|“HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
ASTOUNDING, ASTONISHING ACHIEVEMENTS.
BLAND HOLT’S
Fascinatingly-Vivid Melodrama,
WOMAN AND WINE.
WOMAN AND WINE.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager
Alkubd Damhkii.
TRIUMPH COMPLETE and CONVINCING.
ALFRED DAMPIER
EVERY EVENING,
in the Grand Patriotic Production of
“ JiIII TON A NJD BOE H. ”
Supported by the Full Strength of the Company.
BICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATReT^YDNEY.
■ * Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mu. Harry Rickards
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS'
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY
Matinees SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY
Re appearance of CHAS. SEEL and MAUD NEEDHAM
First appearance of Prof. ALMOND.
THE ANIMATOGRAPHE, DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN
PAUL MARTINETTI and His Company.
BILLY McCLAIN and MADAM CORDELIA, ARTHUR
CRANE, ALMA GRAY, and all our
Great Company.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance of
THE FLYING JORDANS, VENUS and OLAF
SCHRADER.
THE THREE HAYTORS, WILLIAMS QUARTETTE
Mr. Tod Callaway, Dr. Leigh, Dora Taylor, Eva Lee!
Violet Bishop, E. Brinkman, Fred Duncan, Aif. Lawton,
Gus. Franks.,
Box Plan at Allan s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Under the Sole Manaeement of William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING.
ANOTHER IRRESISTABLE ATTRACTION,
“ON ACTIVE SERVICE,”
An Entirely New Nautical Drama, for the first time
in Melbourne.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE
AXOTUEIt AJtXOLD SUCCESS!
THIRD WEEK of
“ The Professor’s Love Story.”
CHARLES ARNOLD and his English Comedy Co.
from the Strand Theatre, London.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
|_IER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 * (Late Alexandra).
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
FRIDAY, JUNE 15,
LAST NIGHT of NANCE O’NEIL In
“ MA.GHDA..”
Saturday, June 16, NANCE O’NEIL in her Great Part of
QUEEN ELIZABETH.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 5s ; Stalls and Family Circle,
3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
TOWN HALL, ADELAIDE.
1 Lessees, Messrs. H. G. L. Wyld and O. H. Freedman.
MONDAY, JUNE 18.
Every Afternoon at 3, and Evening at 8.
HTwo Hours in South Africa, with I
the Troops, by Biogrraph. f-'v
Direct from the Palace Theatre, London.
SEVEN MILES OF FILMS.
GENUINE WAR PICTURES TAKEN ON THE SPOT.
Afternoon, doors open 2.30, commence at 3.
Evening, doors open at 7.30, commence at 8.
O. H. FREEDMAN, Business Manager.
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, JUNE 16, at 3 O’Olock,
Scberck’S Orchestra.
(50 Instrumentalists).
Principal Violin .. MR. GEORGE WESTON.
CONDUCTOR HERR BENNO SCHEREK.
POPULAR PROGRAMME, POPULAR PRICES -
3s. 2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
gXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
TN€ AQUARIUM.
WANTED some LIVE CROCODILES, over
15ft. in length. State Price, delivered alive,
and in good condition to
J. E. SIIERRARD,
Secretary.
Medloal.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
( Registered.)
rpiIESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and may be safely taken by the most
delicate without fear. Being non-poisonous, and with a
decided and sure specific action, they can always be relied
on to afford immediate relief. Price, sent anywhere
ss. 6d. per box. Obtainable at Rocke, Tompsitt, and Co.’
Druggists, 272 Flinders-street, Melbourne.
IJfIPnCPU’C In PITT STREET, send
nUnUCtlll Oj CLOTHING at their
Sydney Prices, carriage paid, by the Parcel Postal
System, to your nearest Post. Office, no matter
how far distant it is.
We are making a Speciality this Winter of
nm
WATERPROOF
OVERCOATS. .
Every size, Long: or Short, Well-made, Price,
30/- net. Our usual terms, CASH. Money can
be sent by Postal Note, Bank Note, Post Office
Order, Bank Draft, Stamps, or Orders on Station-
owners.
HORDERN BROTHERS have a good name for a
quarter of a century, and this Coat will help to
maintain it. We are no mushroom firm ; when
you buy from us you know you are dealing with
a reliable, old-established firm.
We can also supply Macintoshes at the follow-
ing prices, viz., Black Cape Macintoshes, 20/-,
25/-, 30/-, 42/-; Fancy Tweed Macintoshes, 21/-,
26/-, 30/-, 35/-; Box Cloth Cape Macintoshes,
57/6 ; Men’s Chesterfield Macintoshes, 27/6, 32/6,
37/6, 45/-, 65/- ; Men’s Double-breasted Chester-
field Box Cloth Macintoshes, 52/6 : The “ Talma”
Macintosh, latest cut, 55/- ; Boys’ Macintoshes,
15/6, 16/6, 20/-, 25/- ; X3T But the cream of all is
the 30/- one. (Be sure and mention size when
ordering by letter.)
Hordern Brothers
Federal Clothing Manufacturers,
203, 206, 207, 209, 211 Pitt Street, Sydney.
n
=g§y
I *
Brandt Bros.’
KEROBENE
ROOM WARMER
(Registered).
No Smoke. No Smell.
This heat radiator with
asbestos cone gives a red
glow, and will warm a
room in a few minutes,
and by removing the top
cover a kettle can be
boiled upon it.
It is made to fit a
Jupiter or Primus Stove.
Height, 18in.; Diameter,
lOin.; Weight, 41b.
PRICK: Made in Sheet
Steel, 15s ; Brass, 255;
“Primus” Stoves, 9s 6d
and 10s Od ; Jupiter
Stoves, 12s Od extra.
Kerosene Bath Heaters
heat a flow of water in-
stantly. You can fix
them yourself, £3 15s
each.
BRANDT BROS.,
Damp Manufacturers,
236 Pitt-street, Sydney,
and 422 Klizabeth-st.,
Melbourne.
Rfll S 3 NATH N, Clairvoyante, Palmist, Otis Chambers,
82 King-street, Sydney. A true reading can be
rendered. Paint hand with sepia or Indian ink, moistened
with glycerine, place paper on cushion, press hand firmly
until clear impression results; write underneath colour
of eyes and hair. Characteristics, by handwriting—fee,
2s. Gd. postal note.
Strengthens the Digestive Organs
EXACT SIZE
ofthebotjlE
■iwy.frVM?
m
JIIUU
•H *-+
KUT NOW’S
im.-roved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
SIH.
'
m
Ml
a
If
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap
If;
’W
IP
1 111 London:'
41, FARRINGDON ROAD, E.C.>
RED TRADF MARK .1
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
EXACT SIZE
OFTHE BOTTLE
And Banishes Sick-Headache, Lassitude,
Depression, Nervous Exhaustion, Low
Spirits, Drowsiness, &c.
Many people, owing to the nature of their business,
are prevented from eating, resting, and sleeping as regularly
as is essential to the preservation of sound health. This is
particularly true in regard to eating, as some days they take
a heavy meal and other days a light meal, and some days
they dine at one hour, and other days they dine at a
different hour. The result of this irregularity is apparent
in the extraordinary prevalence of Indigestion and the
various nervous disorders it breeds. Besides the careless-
ness in the matter of eating, Indigestion is produced by
over-work, over-worry, and by the two liberal use of malted
liquors, wines, spirits, &c. Occasionally it is caused by a
disturbance in the gastric juices, which are often too acid,
and sometimes too alkaline. Whatever be the cause, the
symptoms are generally the same—namely, sick-headache,
lassitude, nervous exhaustion, depression, low spirits,
drowsiness, biliousness, etc.
When Indigestion has continued long the system
becomes so weakened that almost any disease can secure
lodgment in it, and hence it is only a matter of time when
the sufferer’s life is brought to a premature end. Fully
half the ailments the average medical practitioner attends
to have their origin in disorders of the digestive organs.
There is only one safe, certain, and pleasant way to
obtain permanent relief from Indigestion and the various
other ills it produces, and that is in the use of KUTNOW’S
Improved Effervescent Carlsbad POWDER, which, by
dissolving and carrying off the waste and poisonous matters
that weaken and retard the action of the inner organs,
enables them to perform their proper functions. After a
few bottles of Kutnow’s Powder the food is fully digested,
the body properly nourished, and new strength, vigor, and
health are bound to follow.
Kutnow’s Powder has a healing, cleansing, and
strengthening effect on all the digestive, assimilative, and
excretory organs, neutralising acidity, increasing nutrition,
purifying the blood, restoring lost appetite, and enabling
those that use it to work harder, sleep sounder, and eniov
life better. J y
In Kutnow’s Powder will be found all the healing,
medicinal, and cleansing virtues of the best European
spring waters, but none of their unpalatable, drastic, and
lowering features.
Kutnow’s Powder is prepared by dessicating the valu-
able curative salts found in these springs, eliminating their
useless and undesirable features, and adding a few other
health-giving ingredients and effervescence.
Take Kutnow’s Powder, and the sick headache,
lassitude, nervous exhaustion, depression, low spirits]
drowsiness, biliousness, and the various other symptoms of
a disordered digestion will disappear, and you will receive
a new store of strength, health, and vigor.
SOLD BY ALL
KUTNOW’S POWDER may be obtained In capsuled bottles from all Reliable Chemists and Medicine Vendors
S ,?t r i' a f, e Mark ’ “ Birsehenoprung ” (or Deer Leap), and the autograph facsimile signature
S. K.U NOW oc CO., Ltd., are on the label and carton. Only these ensure yenuineness. Insist on t( KJJTNOW’S *'
and firmly refuse any substitutes . They may be worthless, probably injurious.
PROPRIETORS
R/llTllAiii © An i j proprietors in u.s.a._—.
S> KUTNOW & CO., Let., 41 Farringdon Rd. f London, E.C. KUTNOW BROS., LcL, 853 Broadway, New York City.


Twenty Years’ Dyspepsia
TOOK A HOGSHEAD OF MEDICINE.
Something to Think Over.
The Case of
MR. ALDERIVIAN CROFT.
y Reported for “ The Mercwy”)
‘ That’s me ! ” replied a gentleman of
Eortly appearance to our reporter at Tighe s
[ill, who was asking for the residence of Mr.
James Croft. Our representative broached
his business at once, pleased at the luck
that had placed him so quickly in the
presence of a busy man. Mr. Croft, we
may add, lives in Mitchell-street, and is one
of the best known residents ofTighe’s Hill,
having been for seven years an Alderman of
that place.
“I have been referred to you, Mr. Croft,”
said our reporter, ‘ as one who can speak with
authority on the merits of Clements Tonic.”
“ That is quite correct, ” said Mr. Croft,
“ and it willgivemegreat pleasure to tell you
what I know. I was a sufferer from indiges-
tion for over twenty years, and a martyr to
that complaint in its severest form. My
appetite was irregular; sometimes I was
ravenously hungry ; at other times I did
not care for my meals. When I did eat, and
had taken a few mouthfuls, I felt stuffed and
inflated and had the wretched feeling of
repletion. Then would come a sharp
still ng pain in my chest going right through
me, and, higher up, I was troubled with
pains under the shoulder blades. At the
least extra exertion I suffered from palpita-
tion of the heart; even as I lay in bed I
could hear my heart go tap, tap, tap, like
the beating of a hammer. My rest was
broken and irregular, I would turn in bed
first.to one side and then to the other, and
when I chanced to drop off it would be to
awake again with a sudden start by bad
dreams ; and after that there would be no
more sleep for me that night. Yet, during
the day I was always drowsy ; if I only stood
still a few minutes and lent against a post I
could drop off to sleep as I stood. Always
I was tired—tired with doing nothing. And
even when I went for a day’s pleasuring to
a picnic I could rouse myself to no interest
in what wjs going on. All I cared for was to
sit still, stupid like, with no pleasure in life.
Thero I would sit, in one place, the whole day
long, quite carelessandindifferent to the whole
world. Muscular pains in the arms troubled
me after work, and my inside seemed a fair
gas bag of wind that continually distressed
me, and my brain was hardly ever free from
a nasty sick headache. I noticed that my
distressing symptoms wei'e always worse in
hot weather. This long continued sickness
gradually wore me out, and I lost in flesh as
I lost in energy.”
“ What remedies did you try, Mr Croft;
ior.it is certain that you are not one to let
himself drift into that deplorable state
without seeking relief ?” asked the reporter.
diould think not! Why, lam sure
!*•- die different medicines and alleged
infallible cures that I took at one time and
another, would, if put together, fill a
hogshead. I was treated here in turn by
eight of our best local doctors, and they all
failed to give me more than the most
temporary and passingrelief. Finally, I went
down to Sydney o consult a well-known
specialist and a man highly esteemed in the
medical profession. And in all, this Sydney
visit cost me over eighty pounds, with no
better result following than after the ex-
periments made on me by our local doctors.
Naturally I was very down hearted—one day
more than usual. I may mention that I
suffered at times from a local ailment, and it
was to get treatment for this that I entered
the shop of a Sydney chemist and spoke to
him casually about my terrible indigestion
and its symptoms.”
“ Why don’t you try Clements Tonic ?”
the chemist said to me. “ 1 hear in my own
experience of a number of remarkable cur*s
it has effected in cases like yours.”
“ This advice decided me to buy a small
bottle of Clements Tonic; taking it home I
took a dose. The after sensation of that
first dose was not pleasant; it brought on a
nasty sickly bilious feeling [a sign it had
struck a bad case Which it ultimately
cured.—Ed.] so that I mistrusted my
purchase, and said to my wife, ‘ There’s
some more money wasted ; but, never mind,
I’m going to see that bottle through. ’ In
the train coming back to Newcastle I took a
second dose of the remedy, and felt decidedly
better; and then I understood what later
experienced has confirmed, that my feeling
of sickness after the first dose was merely a
sign that Clements Tonic was getting to
work shifting the bile that clogged my
system. After that, I finished taking the
bottle with confidence, continued the
treatment with other bottles, and even at
the present day I would not, in case of
emergencies, be without a bottle of Clements
Tonic in the house. I may add that I have
to keep it locked up, for children are apt to
raid the bottle. It was two years ago that I
first took Clements Tonic, and I was then
only an apology for a man. I weighed ten
stone five pounds, now my weight in good
solid flesh is over fourteen stone. lam fit to
do a day’s work with any man, and, though I
am fifty-four years of age, willing to swan
anyone in the district as old as myself.
Clements Tonic made all this diffe ence in
me, rapidly and effectively. My indigestion
was cured, I lost the pains in the chest and
bafk, the feeling of inflation and the sick
headache, and I can sleep as sound as a top.
I am an old sufferer from piles, and I found
Clements Tonic, by improving my general
health, greatly eased the suffering they
caused me. There are several matters with
regard to Clements Tonic I should like to
refer .to. It is the very finest pick-me-up I
know of for great fatigue or over indulgence.
T-ke a spoonful of Clements Tonic in a glass
of water—there is nothing better. I would
give one warning—if you don’t want to grow
teo stout, take it after meals ; for, if taken
before, the appetite you get is simply
irresistible. Another thing, when I was
under the treatment of all my various
doctors my diet was restricted in the most
arbitrary manner—l was not to eat this, I was
not to eat that; but taking Clements Tonio
you may eat just what you fancy, and your
cure goes on just the same. Some people
grumble at the cost of taking a course of
Clements Tonic ; but let them try a course of
doctors, as I have done, and, remember,
Clements Tonic will bring them health and
strength again, and they will find it the
cheapest investment that they ever made. ”
“ Have I your consent, Mr. Croft,” asked
the reporter, “to make this interview
public ? ”
“By all means. lam an old resident here
and well known, and I can assure all those
who may read my statement that it is true
in every detail.”
STATUTORY DECL \RATION.
*, Jauks Croft, of Tithes Hill, Newcastle, in the
Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly andsinceiely
declare that I have carefully read the annexed
documen', consisting' of five folios and consecutiveh
numbered from one to five, and that it contains and
is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permis
sion to publish the same in any way; and I make this
solemn declaration voluntarily, and without receiving
any payment, conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
an Act made and passed in the ninth year of the reign
of her present Majesty, intituled “An Act for the
more effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations
taken and made in the various Departments of the
Government of New South Wales, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the suppression
of voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths and Affida\ its ’
Declared at Carrington this 13th day of August, one
thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine, before me,
GEORGE BUTT, J.P.
THE STOMACH GOVERNS THE WORLD.'
General Gordon.
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE..
9
Xf
V) ’
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement,
breathing Impure Air, too rich food, Alcoholic
drink, Gouty, Rheumatic, and other blood
poisons, Fevers, Chills, Feverish Colds, Throat
Irritation, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Head-
ache, Skin Eruptions, want of appetite, Sour-
ness of Stomach, &e., &e.Use
ENOS ‘FRUIT SALT’
Pleasant, Soothing, Cooling, Health-giving, Refreshing, and Invigorating.
NO HOUSEHOLD OR TRAVELLER’S BAG SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
IN HOT OR FOREIGN CLIMATES ENOS ‘ FRUIT SALT’ is
INVALUABLE. It is the BEST and SIMPLEST preparation for
regulating the action of the LIVER that has yet been discovered, and relieves
the system of effete GOUTY, RHEUMATIC matter, the groundwork of
FEVERS and other diseases, which, if retained, poisons the blood and pro-
duces the most disastrous consequences. It allays nervous excitement, and
restores the nervous system to its proper condition by NATURAL MEANS.
The effect of ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ upon any DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
* • NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
' CILXJTION - .— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you
nave a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S PATENT.
The Life of the System.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC
►
I THE
elveteen.
NOTE WELL!-Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen <
bears the name (spelled L“0“U“l"S ar, d < n no other(
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear. {
MOIR’S
KIPPER PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs. and 4 ozs.
Manufacturers I
JOHN MOIR & SON, laIMITED,
LONDON ABERDEEN & SEVILLE.
Head Office ’ 9 & 10, Gt. Tower Street, London E.C.
n
m
nm
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
leadache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
Tho Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA,
liWiiSM
mm
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
UT
:
'////,.
aMm
w'm'm
&
1
.«
M
rang
F a ;
K
»1
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can lie prepared with this
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES.
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Agents: BLAKEY & LACEY, 23 Camden Building's, 418 Ceorge Street, Sydney.
L \
Ue '
N/s
tVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY,
If you are tired o: STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-i
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.'
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER 1
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can (
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia, j
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, Genera’'
J Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc. j
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and ,
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted '
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and /
may be worn without the slightest possibility of ’
detection. They have cured thousands. i
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 i
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0 ■
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0 4
Extra powerful, with suspensory
acta zihments 330 4
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0 4
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be }
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and 4
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for \
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, §
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c. \
All communications should be addressed to — 9
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney p
fl
ON OUR SELECTION,” by
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
Steele Rudd,
Ltd., Sydney.


STEWART DAWSON & CO.
The Great Watch, Jewellery and Plate House of Australasia
middlemen’s prof?ts V to H pay! I Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, London.
No. 134.—15-ct. Gold Bracelet, set 2 Diamonds.
3 Sapphires, £7 10s.
No. 115 A.—Novel Design, 9-et. Gold and
Amethyst Brooch, £1 6s.
No. E 7551. —New, Elegant Design. 9-ct. Gold and
Eine Amethyst Brooch, £,l 2s 6(1
No. 132 A.—9-ct. Gold Bar Bracelet, set Fine Pearls, £3.
'•
n
Pretty Frosted Glass, Silver Mounts.
No. E 6414. —Match Holder, 5s
No. E73so.—Cigarette „ 6s
No. E73sl.—Cigar „ 7s
£ £ £
No. 811.—Solid Silver Bon-Bon Dish,
6Jin. by sin., £1 7s 6d.
Bust Silver-plated, 6s 6d.
No. 289.—Cut-Orystal Toilet Salts Bottle,
Silver Top, 2Jin. high, lls 6d.
No. E 6142. —Sterling Silver Saw-pierced
and Engraved BELT CLASP, 10s (id.
Best Silver-plated. 4s (id and ss.
Drawn Half-size.
saa<!
Mr
«
KiH
POWDER JARS.
Finest Cut-Glass, Silver
Top, 14s 6d, 21s, 30s,
37s 6d, and 455.
No. 316. —Solid Silver Sweet Dish,
3Jin. long, 12s 6d.
Others, 18s 6d and £1 Is.
No. 184 A.
Keeper, 18-ct. Gold.
£1 7s (id.
No. 101.— 9-ct. Gold Brooch,
set Pearls, 10s 6d.
No. 166.
2 Diamonds, 1 Sapphire
18-ot. Gold, £2 7s Od.
No. E7o6l.—New Design, 0-ct. Gold Amethyst
Xleart Brooch, l‘2s Cd.
No. 101.
18-ct. Gold, 2 Diamonds,
3 Rubies, £3 10s.
No. E 3006. —9-ct. Gold Bar Brooch with
Safety Catch, 6s Cd.
No. 185.
Wedding Ring,
Gold, £ll6
18-ct.
No. 358 A Chased
Sugar Basket,Silver-Plated
on Nickel Silver.
Full Size, £1 7s. od.
No. 885 A Design Oblong Oako Basket,
Saw Pierced, Finest Silver Plate, £3 6s.
No. E 6448. —Best Silver-
Plated and Engaved
Napkin King, 4a (id.
Silver-Plated Pocket Spirit Flasks,
7s 6d to 60s.
Particulars on Application.
>
SSSSS
No. 29GA.—Solid Silver Serviette
King, 10s Gd.
No. 373 A.
Silver-Plated Thistle Cruet, with
Spoons, very elegant, £1 Is.
No. Es2o6.—Ladies’ Long Muff Chain, 9-ct. Gold, £2 17s Gd ; 16-ct. Gold, £6 10a,
New Lucky Bell Charm, 9-cfc. Gold, Es (3d.
No. E4B67.—Ladies’ Long Muff Chain, 9-ct. Gold, £3 10s. ; 15-ct. Gold, £6 6s.
No. E6735.—Fu1l Size Solid Silver Hair Brush, £1 10b.
No. EG4os.—Hat Brush, 8-in. long, Solid Silver, 13s 0d :
Silver Moustache Brush, 12s Cd; Small, ss.
No. 274.—501 id Silver Cloth Brush, 7i-in. long, 17s Od.
m
No. 272B.—Gents’ Solid Silver Military
Hair Brush, £1 2s 6d.
No. E6523.—501id Silver Toilet Hair Brush, £l7s 6d.
No. 231 A.—15-ct. Gold
Locket set with 3 Dia-
monds and 4 Sap -
phires, £4 10s.
9-ct. Gold Chased Heart Pin Charm,
6s 6d.
No. 193.
Set LINKS,
Sot., 15s 6d ;
15ct.,£l 10s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 230.—Compass.
15-ct Gold, £2 10s.
9-cfc. Gold, £1 6s; Silver, Cs 6d.
No. 200 A.—Set Links,
9-ot. Gold, 18s Gd ;
15-< t. Gold, £1 15s ;
Silver, 6s Gd.
9-cfc. Gold Wishbone Pin Charm, 5s 6d.
No. 262.—Cross.
9-ct. Gold, £1 Is; 16ct.,
£llss.
No. 275.—Paper Knife, Solid Silver Handle, Ivory Blade
12}in., 16s 6d.
No. 390—Elegant Silver-Plated Bread Fork, llin. long, Pearl Handle, 14s 6d.
No. 327.—501 id Silver Glove Hook, 3£-in.
long, 2s 6d.
No. 148. —Solid Gold Bracelet, 3 Diamonds, 4 Rubies,
£4 4s.
No. 176 \.
Lady’s or Gent.’s 18-cfc,
Gold Band King - ,
£1 Is to £2 ;
Set with 3 Fine Opals,
16ct., £2 ss.
The New Lucky Bella. The Latest London Novelty.
No. 750.—9-et. Gold 5-bell Bracelet, £1 10s ; Do., 3 Bells,
£1 6s. 3-bell Brooch to Match, 12s 6d.
No. E 7458.
18-ct. Gold Diamond
and Sapphire King,
£llos.
No. 138 A Design. 9-et. Gold Bracelet, £1153.
No. E 3781.
Superior Design and Plating, Full-size
Tea and Coffee Service, 4 Pieces,
£7 10s.
No. E 8450.
Finest English Cut-glass Claret
Jug with Best Silver-Plated
Mounts, £2 10s.
No. E 6819.
Silver-Plated Tea Pot,
Elegantly Engraved,
17s 6d.
No. E 3184.
Silver-Plated and Polished Oak
Biscuit Barrel, 14s 6d.
No. E 3792.
Superior Design and Plating, Full-size
Tea and Coffee Service,
4 Pieces, £8 10s.
NOTE.—The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct.
be forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance.
n
mn
m
n
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George-st. & Strand,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H Newman, the weU-known jeweller of 170
Flizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will hnd it
to their advantage to send their oiml direct to
him The finn has a reputation foi straight daj
in" extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a Sufficient guarantee to coiisignors tbat they wil
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
For the many complaints arising from Habitual Constipation,
there is nothing like
CALIFORNIA SYRIIPofFIGS
IT ACTS AS NATURE ACTS-GENTLY AND PAINLESSLY, CLEANSES THE
SYSTEM THOROUGHLY, AND LEAVES THE LIVER, STOMACH AND KIDNEYS
PERMANENTLY STRENGTHENED.
When you feel bilious or have indigestion; when you are
suffering from depression, loss
of appetite, feverishness, head-
ache; when the liver and bowels
are sluggish and inactive, you
are, in nine cases out of ten,
suffering from constipation,
either through neglect or, at
the other extreme, through
excessive drugging or pill
taking: you want a medicine
that will make the organs act
as Nature prompts them to act
when they are in a healthy
condition. California Syrup of
Figs (the original and genuine)
supplies the want. It is both
pleasant to the taste —a luxury
as much as a medicine—and
an unfailing remedy. It acts
as Nature does. It does not
gripe, nauseate, or weaken. It
gives relief pleasantly, leaving
the liver, kidneys and bowels
permanently benefited, so that
its use may be discontinued as
soon as the system is relieved
and cleansed. There is no dis-
comfort or inconvenience. It
simply aids and seconds Nature,
and its results are healthful
regularity,. and total freedom
from dangerous impurities in the system. That is why
doctors recommend its use.
m
PV
S
OF
Jl\t
S 4
Si
yjirj
'■kp
T>llO IXOIUtHT RtMCOT PA(0(J«T«
MOST AOOEPTAOUC FORM
PLANTS KNOWK TO AOT MOAT OtNiriOl*k
LVI TO OUANIC TNI AVAriM C»f«OTWAW
WV| TO I*|NMAN|NTC¥ OVtACOMA
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
AMO TMI MANTIkk* OI*»tNO»Nf ON IT, T<
QlfPlk OOtO* ANO MtAOAOMIA ANO PAI
VCMT MVCMI TO AOT OtNTkV *«T
MOMPTkV ON TM«
KIDNEYS. LIVER AND BOWELS.
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS
is a positively reliable, and at the same time the most
agreeable, remedy for Constipation, Sluggish Liver,
Biliousness, Indigestion, Depression, Feverishness,
Loss of Appetite, Headache, and all kindred complaints,
speedily restoring health, appetite, energy and good spirits.
A boon to the busy man ; grateful to delicate persons ; a
treat to children.
THE GOOD IT DOES IS PERMANENT.
In order to get its beneficial effects you must take the genuine remed).
Remember the full title —CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FlGS—and refuse inferior
substitutes. Every package ot the genuine bears the Name and Trade Mark
of the Sole Manufacturers, the California Fig Syrup Co.
Of all Chemists and Stores, is. ijd. and is. gd. per bottle.
DEPOT 32 SNOW HILL, LONDON, ENG.
Australian Colonies—Of all leading TV holesale Houses.
‘HARLENE’
Z HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth*
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully So:
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves,Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Fulldesci iption and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle .
"1/-5 2/6, and (triple 2 6 size) 4/S per
Bottle from Drug-gists, &c., all ovei
the World.
Edwards’ Karlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
K
%
• .
m
&
tm
“Mamma, shall I have beautiful Ion," hair like you when I grow up?”
“ Certain!}, ay dear, if you use Edwards'' Haiiune.' ”
Hagshaw’s Housekeeper.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Ghost ?--no ! ” Terrick took his pipe from his
mouth and laid a perpensive hand upon his beard.
“ I’m not super-; ; - ous enough to say there are no
such things, but nothing of the sort ever came my
wav i though once X might have fancied I was in
touch with the supernatural. ”
“ Superstitious enough ?” Wranglebury echoed,
hitching forward an argumentative chair. Why,
my good fellow ”
“Oh, you needn’t clear for action, young man.!
I was only going to yarn. Too comfortable to
argue; though it certainly seems to me that the
man who denies the possibility of ghosts, simply
because he never saw one, is a lot more super-
stitious in his own way than the believer in what,
after all, there’s a huge mass of testimony to sup-
port.”
“ Testimony, you call it ?”
“Dry up, Wrangy ! ” from Giddiman. “ Ter-
rick carries too many guns for you, in any case ;
but we’d a lot sooner hear him spinning cuffers
than splitting straws.”
“Young man,” said Terrick, with mock
dignity, “if by a ‘ cuffer ’ you signify, as I appre-
hend, the saying of the thing which is not, or was
not —let me assure you that my story ”
“Isgospel truth ! Oh, of course —they all are.
Gospel or gammon, though—fire away.”
Terrick took a modest whistle-wetter. “ Fifteen
years ago, when I was in Melbourne, things were
a lot brisker there than they are now—though
personally I found myself such an exception- to
the rule that I had to retrench for all I was worth
and advertise for a ‘ large single room, good light,
quiet neighborhood.’ Got what I wanted in what,
for Melbourne, was a ramshackle old house
in a by-street of Richmond. Landlord, an
eccentric-looking old bird—very lean and snuffy
and shabby, with eyes like an owl’s, and a huge,
square head as bald as ivory. Owned the house
himself, he told me, and would be the only other
occupant at night; the old woman who attended
to matters went away every evening.
“All suited me very well—quiet for my work,
and so on—and for about a week there was nothing
to record. Then, one evening when I had seen
the old man go out, I thought I’d try to find out
the meaning of a peculiar smell that seemed to
come from his rooms—two, on the same floor as
my own. All the rest of the big house was forlorn
and desolate, and I felt a bit creepy as I opened
the sitting-room door and met the sickly smell in
full strength—something botween mouldy and
aromatic. But a glance showed me the origin of
it; the man was a naturalist. Stuffed animals in
cases round the room upon the floor; insect-cases
above these; and, on a shelf above these again, a
long array of bird-skeletons, that looked as if they
were paraded for inspection by a big human frame-
work fixed upright upon the mantel-shelf.
“ Well, a little of that atmosphere went a
long way with me; but, just as I turned away,
I met the old man—making no more noise
in liis slippers than a cat. Oh, no—he said—
I wasn’t intruding. Pleased to have me inspecting
Ids entomological collection. Finest in Australia !
Worth—l forget the amount—but it seemed to me
so absurdly large that I laughed at the idea, and
told him that, in that case, he ran a great lisle of
being robbed. He seemed to take the thing quite
seriously, but I couldn’t make out what lie was
driving at when he asked me suddenly—after
thinking for half-a-minute —if I kept my door
closed at night. Not always, I told him. De-
pended upon the temperature; why did he ask ?
‘ Keep it shut,’ he said. ‘ Keep it shut, from to-
night—and locked, too ! ’ and not another word
could I get out of him. He only glowered with
his uncanny big eyes, and nodded his bald pate at
me till I began to think there must be something
amiss inside it.
“ I didn’t take the old effigy’s advice. I don’t
know what I expected, or whether I expected
anything, but I went to sleep that night with my
door wide open. Now, of course, I ought to have
waked up with the ‘ consciousness of some sinister
presence in the room,’ and so forth. I didn’t. I
was hardly properly awake before three distinct
booms from the Post-office clock set me thinking
about a big ground-plan I had in hand—wondering
if, by starting on it at daylight, I could get it done
by noon, as promised. Prosaic and matter-of-fact
enough, that—so you’ll scarcely say it was my
imagination that heard, as if from beneath
the bed, a sort of long, hoarse, rattling
sigh. IJp I sat, straining my ears, and
soon made out distinctly a sound beneath me
as of deep, slow breathing. Then again
came the former rattling sound, rising and falling,
and continuing till I jumped out of bed and made
for the table. I had a revolver in the drawer—
unloaded—but I thought I might take a trick by
clicking the hammer in a warlike and determined
manner. Just as I got my hand on the pistol,
however, somebody or something trod softly past
me towards the door. I could feel the steps, more
than hear them, for, though they were all but
noiseless, they were heavy on the floor.”
“That wasn’t very ghost-like, at all events,” I
said. “ Spectres shouldn’t have any avoirdupois ! ”
“ Exactly what I told myself—or I don’t sup-
pose I’d have cared to go the door and listen to
what sounded like dull, shuffling footsteps on the
stairs.”
“Did n’t occur to your gigantic intellect to strike
a light, I suppose ? ” Wranglebury perked up his
little carrotty beard like one who had scored.
“To give the possible burglar a chance of
potting me at his ease ! That’s about the height
your transcendent genius would have risen to, no
doubt.”
“Wranglebury knocked on the head!” said
Giddiman, the facetious. “ Let the corpse be re-
moved. Drive on, Terrick.”
“ Well, I locked my door for the remainder of
the night. Time enough to tell old Hagshaw—
that was his name—in the morning, I thought.
But daylight and hard work drove the matter
nearly out of my head, and it wasn’t till evening
that it occurred to me to get some cartridges for
the revolver ; which I did—determined to sit up
in the dark with the door open. Dreary work it
was, waiting ; but, just about three o’clock again,
as I was dozing off in spite of myself, something
pressed gently against ray legs, and a touch, light
as a feather, fell upon my cheek. I gave such a
start that I overbalanced myself and fell off my
chair, and then, as I lay on the floor, I heard
again the dull, rattling, sighing sound, rising
and falling in a regular way that put me
in mind, on a very large scale, of—
never, mind, that would be giving the
thing away! This time I did strike a match, but
before the glare was out of my eyes I could hear
the steps upon the stairs again, faster and heavier
than the night before, but still curiously soft and
muffled. Revolver in hand, I followed, but at the
turn of the stairs I pulled up pretty short at the
sight of two circular lights in the darkness below.
Small lamps they looked like, but while I was
wondering how it was they didn’t shed the
smallest glimmer around' them, they disappeared.
I pushed on to the foot of the stairs, and had
taken half-a-dozen steps into the hall, when sud-
denly there were the twin-lamps again—appa-
rently about on a level with my waist. I started
back the lights rose in an instant nearly as high
as my head—l felt a heavy something on each
shoulder; and then I understood, from the hot,
evil-smelling breath upon my face, that the lamps
were eyes— staring horribly into mine; but eyes
of what —I couldn’t imagine.”
“ Some kind of big ape ? ” suggested Giddiman,
“Chimpanzee, or something of that sort, welcom-
ing his long-lost brother ! ”
“ What about your pistol ? ” I said.
Terrick’s face had grown pale with the vividity
of the recollection. “Fact is,” he said, “I was
so thoroughly d d-well scared that I never even
thought of the revolver in my hand till the
weights were suddenly taken off my shoulders, as
the eyes sunk down and disappeared—and then
there was nothing to fire at. I cleared upstairs
again pretty quickly, I can tell you, fastened my
door, and waited for daylight—due then in about
an hour..
“As soon as it was fairly clear I started down-
stairs again to have a look round, and, just as I
reached the bottom, I heard the shuffle of slippered
feet coming from the back-offices. Why I
did it I don’t exactly know, but I slipped
into the recess under the stairs, and saw old
Hagshaw pass me, with a candle still alight.
He was muttering to himself, and there was
blood upon the hand that held the light. In the
other was a metal-headed riding-whip. I didn’t
like the look of these things, and 1 thought I
would try if I could find out what he was up to.
“ Nothing unusual anywhere; till, in the yard, I
came upon traces of partly coagulated blood that
guided me to a windowless outhouse, in the door
of which was a small air-trap. The door was fast;
but, as I stood peering through the trap and see-
ing nothing but darkness, there came a kind of
striving and pushing from the inside, with loud,
heavy breathing, and then a long, low moan that
made me start away from the door. What horror
was behind it I couldn’t imagine, but the blood,
and the struggling, and the moaning determined
me to get to the bottom of the matter without
delay. I went upstairs again and tapped at tin
old man’s door, and in half-a-minute he opened it,
in his shirt-sleeves and with a towel over his arm.
I pointed to his right hand. ‘ You’ve washed the
blood off ! ’ I said, as he looked from me to the
hand and back again. Then his face ohanged
suddenly. ‘ You’ve been sleeping with your door
open !’ he said, sharply. ‘ Don’t deny it! My
God ! —how have you escaped ! ’ ‘ I’m not going
to deny it,’ I said. ‘ And, as I’m bad at riddles,
kindly just tell me what it is I have escaped, and
who or what it is you’ve got shut up in that black-
hole at the back ?’
“He looked at me doubtfully for a bit—then
went back into the room and brought out the
whip I had seen with him. ‘ You shall bo satis-
fied,’he said. ‘As she hasn’t meddled with you
during the night, you may be one of the few she
takes a fancy to. But if she should attempt to go-
for you, let her have this, hard and heavy,
between the ears.’ I took the heavily-loaded
whip and followed him downstairs, utterly flab-
bergasted by all this talk of a mysterious ‘she’
who might possibly have taken a fancy to me.
“ Hagshaw posted me in an angle of the yard.
‘ You’ll only nave your front to guard, so,’ he
said. ‘ But we. shall know in a moment whether
she means mischief.’ He took a key from his
pocket, but, the moment he put it in the lock,
there came a heavy shock against the door, and a
hideous cry that was roar and screech and wail all
in one. And, then—with her back humped-up
and her tail curving in the air—out came, and
rubbed herself affectionately against the old man’s
thigh—a cat !”
“Hhugh!” from the grievously disappointed
Giddiman.
“What confounded rot!” from Wranglebury.
“ How could a cat ? ”
“A cat,” went on Terrick, imperturbably—
“upon a rather large scale. A leopard, in fact !
For a few moments she nuzzled her wicked-look-
ing head against Hagshaw, exactly after the
fashion of her small relation. Then she caught
sight of me; her head and tail went down, and
she began to sidle along the opposite wall. Well ”
—Terrick got up and walked to and fro—“l sup-
pose I’m about as plucky as the average, but I
didn’t feel at all well as the brute coasted slowly
round the walk towards me, treading as if upon
thin ice, and never taking her big green eyes off
mine. A coolish morning, it was, but my fore-
head wanted ’ wiping by the time she pulled-up
within about 6 feet of me, straightenod-up on her
legs, and cocked her tail in the air again. ‘ I t’s
all right ! ’ Hagshaw said. ‘ She’s going to make
up to you ! ’ At the words, she turned her head
and looked at him steadily for two or three
seconds; then —whether it was because she
noticed that he hadn't the whip, I can’t say—but
she flattened down and leaped for him like lightning.
He partly dodged her, but she had him down and
had her teeth in his shoulder before I bethought
me that I had something about mo more effectual
than the whip. I ran over, put the pistol to her
ear, and settled her with two chambers. Ihe old
man’s shoulder was badly chewed, but I didn't
feel particularly sorry for him when 1 bethought
me that he had turned the brute loose at night, as
a watch-dog, with no more warning to me than
advice to keep my door shut. Went raving mad,
afterwards.” , , .
“Oh, you did! ” gibed Wranglebury, purposely
misunderstanding. “ And you ve had leopard-on-
the-brain ever since. I see ! ” •„
“If he keeps much more of your company,
Giddiman put in, “he’ll have dam-fool on the
brain. But about the blood you saw Jernek
“Blood from bullock’s-hearts Hagshaw had
been feeding her with. And the rattling, groan-
ing noise was simply purring upon a colossal scale.
The light, ghostly touch on the cheek 1 take to
have been from the end of the creature s tail stuck
up in the air as she rubbed herself amicably
against me in the dark. Lucky for me she too c
that view of the situation. Otherwise I should
never have enjoyed the inestimable advantage of
Mr. Wranglebury’s acquaintance. . . „
“Mr. Wranglebury’s deliberate opinion, re-
torted that gentleman, “ is that the whole thing is
just about the tallest kind of a he. W hat do you
bellows ” did what the reader will prob-
ably do, we suspended judgment.
ALEX MOSTGOMERY.


WHEN THE KIDNEYS ARE ILL,
THE WHOLE BODY IS ILL.
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills
ARE THE CURE !
ir
»1
saSS
tm*:
mm
i
m
iva-
m
m: $
\Ky,-
ms
m
• '.Wj'S®
■ *‘ * \ .
H
S! » mV.K'>.v ,v:
is
gspii
I
(W
eg'rm*®
V v i -
TV*:
S
vsjs
>:'. J
v\
\\
M
zi
Sm
vU
Ws»
jr
M
UV I'M
\w
W
mij
v\V
MR. RICHARD TRESISE.
Did you ever notice a man suddenly place his
hands on his hips ? Did you watch his face con-
tract with pain ? Do you know why he does it ?
Ask him about it. He will tell it is the re-
sult of years of hard work—his back has given
out—would not stand the strain any longer. It
aches nearly all the time, with sudden twinges of
pain which make life miserable.
What have T done for it ? I have rubbed it with
liniments until my skin was nearly raw. I have
worn plasters for months at a time. No, I am too
old to be cured now.
Now, here is a case where age and experience
are wrong. We want to tell him where he is
wrong, to explain how the aches and pains in the
back come from disordered kidneys, and how, to
cure the back, you MUST CURE THE KID-
NEYS. We cannot do this in a better way than
by giving the experience of an old gentleman who
suffered with his back and kidneys for years, and
who has at last found relief.
The gentleman is Mr. Richard Tresise, and his
photograph is given above. He is 74 years old,
and is a resident of Day lesford, Victoria, living in
East-street. He iias iived in Daylesford for 40
years, and is, of course, well known.
“ My sufferings covered a period of six years,”
said Mr. Tresise, “and consisted of severe pains
in my back, together with a form of kidney
trouble. My back was so bad that I could not
stoop over, except with difficulty, and it made me
very miserable indeed. This was only one of the
symptoms of kidney trouble, however, for the
kidney secretions showed me the kidneys were
diseased. In the first place I couldn’t sleep well
at night, as my kidneys interfered with my rest.
Then the kidney secretions were unnatural. This
condition went on for six years, as I said, and I
got no relief until I got Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. These pills proved to be just what I
needed, for their action was directly on my kid-
neys. They regulated their action, greatly re-
lieved my back, and I am much better since 1
used them; and this from a man of my age (74
years) is saying a good deal. You are at liberty
to publish this, as it is all true, and may help
others who suffer as I did.”—(Signed) .Richard
Tresise.
.Wheii your kidneys are not doing their work, it
will be manifested by pain or dull ache in the
back, rheumatic pains, sciatica, sediment in the
urine, scanty supply, scalding irritation in passing
it, obliged to go often during the day and to get
up during the night, uric acid,, sleeplessness, ner-
vousness, irritability, sallow unhealthy com-
plexion, puffy or dark circles under the eyes, loss
of energy and ambition. If your water, when
allowed to remain undisturbed for twenty-four
hours, forms a sediment or settling, or has a cloudy
appearance, it is evidence that your kidneys and
bladder need immediate attention.
If you have any of the above symptoms, Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will set you right and cure
you. We will gladly send you the names of thou-
sands who have testified to what Doan’s Backache
Kidney PiJls have done for them. ■
These pills do not act on the bowels, they act on
the kidneys, and deserve the serious attention of
any sufferer from this most dangerous disease.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
may be had of all Chemists and Storekeepers at
2s. 9d. per box, or six boxes for 15s. 3d., or will
be posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 70 Pitt-street, Sydney
(main office); or from any of our branches, as
follows: —292 Flinders-strcet, Melbourne ; 54 King'
William-street, Adelaide ; 341 Murray-street,
Perth, W.A. ; Eagle-street, Brisbane, care Elliott
Bros.; St. .lolin-street, Launceston, care Fair-
thorne and Son.
Don’t forget the name “D-O-A-N-S.”
Itching Piles.
DOAN’S OINTMENT CURES PILES PER-
MANENTLY BY CURING THE CAUSE.
A REMARKABLE REMEDY WHICH IS
BRINGING COMPORT TO THOUSANDS
OF SUFFERERS.
Probably half the people who see this article
suffer from piles. It is one of the commonest
diseases, and one of the most obstinate. People
have it for years, and just because it is not imme-
diately fatal they neglect it. Carelessness causes no
end of suffering. Carelessness about sosimplea tiling
as piles has often caused death. Hemorrhages occur
from no apparent cause, and loss of blood causes
death. Hemorrhages occur under surgical treat-
ment, often causing death.
Piles are simple in the beginning, and easily
cured. They can be cured even in the worst
stages, without pain or loss of blood, quickly,
surely, and completely. There is only one remedy
that will do it —DOAN’S OINTMENT.
It allays the inflammation immediately, heals
the irritated surface, and with continued treat-
ment, reduces the swelling and puts the mem-
branes into good, sound, healthy condition. The
cure is thorough and permanent. Here is a
case :
T. W. Hickson, of No. 170 Cumberland-street,
this city, says :—“ For a few weeks I was very
much inconvenienced by an attack of itching piles
from which I could get no relief. Doan’s Oint-
ment was first advertised at that time, and I
obtained a pot from Newman’s Pharmacy, in King
Street. lam glad to say that the piles completely
disappeared, after a short treatment with the
ointment, and I’ve not had occasion to use it since.
I will not forget to recommend Doan’s Ointment.”
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot free by mail who will send us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles
or Eczema for one single moment. Doan’s Ointment
will cure them absolutely, but do not take our word
for it; send a penny stamp for a sample box. The
large size box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes
15s. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally from
your chemist or storekeeper, same will be posted
on receipt of price by the proprietors, Foster-
McClellan Co., 70 Pitt-street, Sydney.
W hen writing for Sample please mention The
Bulletin.
Blood-Money.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was sick of the sound of the ringing axe,
And sick of the plough, he swore ;
And the rattling rush and the stockwhip-cracks
Had nothing to charm him more.
So he saddled his horse when the dawn was red,
And he flung down the axe and spade,
Athirst for the glory the papers shed
On the men of the Bush Brigade.
But his mother weeps, for her heart is cold,
And the tears down her wan cheeks run ;
“I care not now for the whole world’s gold
If ’tis bought by the blood of my son ! ”
Where the grass grows green in a river bend,
In the wake of the last year’s flood,
She buries the money the people send—
’Tis the price of her dead son’s blood !
N.S.W.
G.P.Q.C.
The Correspondence of a Little
Dressmaker.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.—HIS LETTER.
“Not being used to letter-writing, I do not
know how I ought to begin this. Ought Ito call
you Miss or Bess ? One is too high-faluting, and
the other is too familiar-like for me, ano wo nave
not seen each other for a good whil/!, althougn we
began to go to work at the same time. »Vhy, now
long it is since you used to do my sums for me
when I could not manage my nome-lessons ? x
mind my old father saying that a letter snould
always be like a bill, the items put down all spick
and span, and nothing in it that is not needed any
more than a real business bill would Have; but tne
truth of the matter is I don’t know now to say
what f want to say, but I suppose there s nothing
for it but to put my hand to the helm and steer
straight to the point I want to reach. I’m one ot
those chaps who never got wild over anytnmg one
way or the other. They say that’s what mau.es
such a good skipper of me. I can always see
what is the right thing to do in any sort of
weather. I am not saying this to blow my own
trumpet, because it comes to me to ao the right
thing. It isn’t my fault. The ketch is my own,
and it did not take all of my savings to build her
either, the beauty. These are the items. The
total is—will you have me for a husband ? There,
I have got it out at last. You could live in
one of the river towns. The thing is you might
be lonely while lam away on the • Bess. Yes,
that’s what I’ve called her. I can’t alter tne
name now, whatever your answer is, Decause
everybody knows her by it. I must not persuade,
because if you remember me well enough to like
me you will come anyhow, and if you do not 1
hope you will not come just to please me, Ido
not suppose that you will decide all of a sudden, so
1 will call at the address written on a slip’ of
paper with this in a month’s time. God (if He is
the chap who looks after things) God bless you.
“ Yours, if you like the ownership,
rm i . . John Baxton.
1 ihe ketch is painted green with trim-
mings of white. I asked an artist chap what
colors to have. I remembered that you did not
like a red hat and green jacket that sat ppposite
to us once on the ferry-boat. i had my own
cabin-door in red, because it is the color of colors
for me. It’s the color of tiie gums in the spring.
“ B-S.—Another item I forgot, a bit of land on
the river. The trees are all left. Once you said
that houses ought to grow like the trees do Well,
mine has been growing for a good many years in a
very small allotment. I hope you won’t think in
my own head, but, by Jove, perhaps you are tired,
of reading this by now and having a good laugh
at me. I can’t help that. I never could help
laughing at funny things myself.
P.S. The flannel -flowers are growing on the
bit of land.”
lI.—THE LETTER SHE SENT
“ Dear Mr. Baxton, —
“ I have never had so haru a task as this of
answering your letter. You have honored me by
asking me to marry you. You take a great deal
on trust because you have only memories of me as
a child. I have no particular memories of you; in
fact, have never thought of you at all. Do not
think this is hard or unkind, but I am sure from
the manly tone of your letter that you would
rather have the truth than anything else. You
remember things I thought and said, and I only
remember you as a rough-haired boy who was
fond of laughing. Thanking you and apologising
for anything that may seem hard in my letter,
“ I am, yours very sincerely,
Bess Bukns.
lII.—THE LETTER SHE DIDN’T SEND.
“ My Dearest Old Skipper,—
“ Your dear letter came like a breath from the
sea that you love so well. I remembered very
little about John Baxton, but I know the skipper
who wrote my letter. Wheie it is at the present
moment lam not goingto tell you. But I will tell
you that I know it off by heart and say it for my
grace while the children are pattering their ‘ We
thank Thee, Oh Lord.’ Not that Ido not thank
Him too. 1 have so much to thank Him for since
the sth of a very wintry month, this year, but my
heart is breathing thanks all the time. You said,
‘ if He is the chap that looks after things,’ as
though you doubted His existence. Why, my
would-be sceptic, who do you think makes people
so glad sometimes, if everything is left to chance ?
But I do not care what you say about it, because I
know that, if anyone were in trouble, they would
not hesitate to go to Skipper Baxton.
“Your wife? I have only one objection. You
would get to know me so well that you would not
go to your imagination for my good qualities any
more, and I should not go to the same source for
my romantic visions of you either. I should
dearly like to sail with you in the Bess some of
the time. Fancy the wife of a skipper who does
not know what it feels like to be on the ocean !
Once T was in a sailing-boat, in the harbor, down
past Bradley’s Head,-and we nearly capsized,
but it is one of the most splendid recollections I
have in my poor brain that will only hold needles,
scissors, and paper patterns. The wind sang in
the rigging, the sails cried out at the strain, and
the waves leapt up and tossed the spray in our
faces until the boys were compelled to furl the
sail and put up the spinnaker instead. And when
fu 6 y J° Un< ? t h , e head and in Middle
aS j thoug 1 1 ./ llad had a glimpse of an
awful but wondrous hfe. There, that is all I
know of the sea as far as being on it goes The
ferry-boats don’t count, because they are very
tame compared with the sailer. I have never been
since. Mother was so frightened that she made
me promise not to go any more
NT “ T t at much ' vas written on Sunday in church
IS owl am waiting for a customer to come and
have her dress fitted. It is 4 o’clock, sSurday
afternoon. I am very glad that we makers haven’t
moWif'TT’ because the wives would have to
make their husband s dresses. You don’t think I
am going to mend your clothes, do you ’ Because I
am going to drown all needles in the Pacific and
then spend all my days on the bit of land 4
house . No, you needn’t think of a house. When
kitekf 6 “ i >Ul t ’ a broom finds its way into the
WR aud '? hen ? woman ha s bands the broom
finds its way into them and they sweep. There’s
a knock? My customer. I must finish mv dis
sertation on sweeping another time.
if you will promise to keep an automatic
machine for sweeping I will not finish my article
davs h W remind^ 8 ® ™- n durin ? the'last few
days has leminded me that it would not be verv
pleasant camping in the grounds minus a house. I
am afraid the flannel-flowers could not hold
enough water to keep us dry. ”
What was it you said about a red hat aim a
Have 1 been a fashionable dress-
maker all these years for nothing? Don’t you
know that green and purple, and green and red
and green and blue and everything, are fashion-
able and artistic? When you see me you will
hat°T,r ie I by the va " et y of colors I wear. 3 Green
vdh i!fi. ( ,i e?S ’- scarle * necktie, violet sasu spotted
with pink daisies, and blue roses in my belt. Do
vou know about the blue roses? Pernaps you
have not read • The Light that Failed.’ One o"
lUt? ™ b® 8 ? 113 Roses red and roses white
sought I fo r my loves delight. She would none
Hi If D y r ° S m’ r° ad ° , me P th « r ber blue posies.
ilf the woild I wandered through, seeking whore
such flowers grew Halt the world unto my quest
answered but with laugh and jest. Oil, ’twaJ but
ai idle quest. Roses red and white are best,
iut 1 am not a vismnary, as this might load you
to think ; ana loan mend torn clothes. So you
needn t wonder if all my nonsense is nonsense, or
it it is real, because-well, what do you think it
is ! Ido not like brooms.
‘Would yo , could you, bnng your aeten into
the narbor at a given time ?—and I would boa!
South Head (in ail my colors; to welcome her and
—her skipper. I wonder what you are like. This
is my impression from your occupation : short,
thick-set and sturdy when off duty, but nimble as
a rabbit when a Sou-’Faster olows you towards
the rocks and you want to give them a wide berth
You are to admire my sailor-like oilk because I
nave been reading Clark Russell and the 1 Boys
Uwn - to collect some nautical terms. Pleas;
answer this question in your next letter, which i.
to come on the wings of the wind, not by the post
man, though he is forgiven for all his old trick
now, since—but never mind the date. Question 1.
1 lie gunwale is the piece of wood that goes ou'
trqm the back of the boat in a slanting direction,
is it not ? Question 2. Is the bumpkin the little
fence round the boat to keep the skipper from fal
ling out ! And, Question 3. I know the stays arc
tne bulk of the boat, the part under the water, s<.
you needn’t answer that question. If these are inis
takes you are to understand that they are intended
for jokes but if they are right they are not in-
tended that way. Ask me questions about the
different parts of a boat because I asked a man who
knows all about it, yet there was a strange twinkle
in Ins eyes when he told me some of the things. I
wonder if he was amusing himself. But you will
toll nie. There is only one thing better than
writing to you, and that is seeing you. Am
L always to wait for trie contrary winds
to move along ? Can’t tney be regulated ?
Ah, it seems so wonderful to me bow you sailors
can manage to bring the vessels safe and sound
into port when contrary winds spring up. I would
never do for a skipper. I can’t fight contrary
forces. 1 turn back and go with the wind. I have
only seen the vessels at anenor m tfie harbor, and
one gets so accustomed to seeing them stolid and
still that it is bard to imagine them alive and full
oi efiort. I wonder, when you are away on
the Pacific and tne wincis spring up, if I shall be
frightened . I don't think so. I shall be sure that
the wind never blew and the sea never moaned
tna you comd noc conquer—and, after all, you are
not going to see this. lam just scribbling a fanev
letter for recreation.
"’Goou-bve, fror:
t k our Bliss.
P.fc).—-l weni io jusu to see if the gums
nave red leaves, ana they have. The spring is
late tnis year. Next spring——”
[Note.—ln one of her rare lapses into carelessness the
mttle Dressmaker must have put this scribbling book
among some others that were to be given to the Mother
for putting into the cake-tins when the cakes were made.
And as Mother was tearing the leaves out to put in the
tins her eye caught the word “ Skipper,” and she read the
rest of the page, and, becoming deeply interested, looked
for the rest of it and read them all. And when the cook-
ing was finished, this little Mother sat down to the table
with paper and pen—a most unusual tiling,- because Hess
always wrote her letters and addressed every thing that
went through the post. But this letter was written by
the Mother, addressed, and taken to the post-office, and
nothing was said to any r one, and—any wav, there was no
more correspondence. ]
Quote from recent speech by English poli-
tician : “The daily newspapers tell naif the
truth, and the weekly satirical and social journals
three-quarters. I hope 1 shall be dead before the
time comes in which any paper will dare to tell
the whole truth.”
r l he N.S. Wales II G. clerical oigan,
Catholic Press, is pushed hard by the priests -it
is sold “ not only at church-doors but even inside
the porches.” “This sort of thing is not at-
tempted in Ireland,” writes the local lay R.C.
paper, Freeman’s Journal.
Mivarts last word is in April North
American Review, where he quotes Liguori on
Hell:
“ It is over-arched am. searched by torrents of devour-
ing flame. The brains within the head, marrow in the
bones, bowels in the body, blood in the veins, heart in the
breast, are interpenetrated by quenchless fire. There is a
stencil so great, that all com pa l ison of earthly stenches
would seem attar of roses. In that fiery deluge must the
souls of the Ixist ever toss to and fro, like chips upon an
ocean—chips consubstantiated with fire.”
“No fewer than fifty-three peers have gone
to the front in South Africa.” The London
sassiety newsman, doesn’t say how many of the
coroneted swells went there with serious fight-
ing intentions. Not very many. Nevertheless
the noble fifty-three have established a healthy
precedent. Next time Great Britain sends a big
army to war every able-bodied peer will be
expected to take some sort of a hand in the game,
after which their lordships will develope a
tendency to vote for arbitration in political
quarrels. At any rate they will want to examine
the merits of the ease through a microscope
doneherknow.


Gives Muscular Strength
and Nerve Power
Takes Out Every Impurity from -the Blood, Makes ttie Blood Rish and
Red, Removes Depression, Imparts Vigor and New Life.
\
/f/i
air. Thomas Monroe, of Oriel, Albion, near Brisbane, Queensland, is well
uitmn-fn football and athletic circles, fie has to keep his system in perfect
condition all the time. Bead what he says about Dr. Ayer’s Family Medicines.
" I have used Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to restore the appetite and give tone and strength to
che whole system, and I have been greatly benefited by doing so.
" “I have #BO obtained marked relief from the asthma by the use of Dr. Ayer’s Cherry 1 ec-
toral. These two remedies are well known throughout Queensland as thoroughly reliable
family medicines.”' "
. So great is the reputation of Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a remedy for healing
the sick that it is called everywhere
“ The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
If you are sick, you certainly should give Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a thorough
trial. It cannot fail to help you, for it cures the blood first of all. Then your
nerves become steady and strong and the hot weather of summer does not affect
you. All depression is overcome. Remember, it is a wonderful medicine for
the children, too, when they are thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your
confidence in it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
AYER’S § arsaparilla
Purifies and Enriches the Blood.
AYER’S PILLS cure dyspepsia; strengl!.2n the stomach.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE'S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared, by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. 1 kd., 2s. 9 d., is. 6 d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
COPYRIGHT.
rv.
mv i .1
y*. n
%
X
tt-ti
//'
ill.
S 3
«i!il **^'
1
Ta
m
>?
«
SSS
afoSM
ssrorr
The Miser, the Maid and the Medicine.
Niece : £< Now, Uncle, you are not yourself, and I want you to
take some BEECH AM’B BILLS. 1 know they will do
you good. They are Worth a Guinea a Box.”
Miser: “What! Worth a Guinea a Box! I would rather die
than take anything of such value.”
Sequel —He dies.
%
IMFOPITA-IV T !
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AID HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & GO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
mn
TMOAT EASE
mmm
383
/>
ss
sm
1—
| Sen-Sen (®.
[FARRISGDOKAVE:
F LONDON.
INVALUABLE ID
l SINGERS X SPEAKERS
i&gto.
m
n
BONNINGTON’S
MOSS
will cure That Hacking Cough
That Troublesome Cold
That Annoying Influenza
BONNINGTON’S PILLS.
REMEDY for BILE, INDIGESTION,
DISORDERED LIVER.


A FEW QUOTATIONS
..•£oa...
Cycle Tyres
£ 8. d.
Pneu matte Detachable Tyres (on Dunlop
nr icipte), OOroT and Inner
Tube .... 16 6
Outer Tyre, OawSßstwl Rubber, 15*. and 018 6
Outer Rubber Oevera 0 8 6
Inner Tnb%U9an>»lateL with Valve ... 0 T 0
Inner Tub*, art Jwwj|, without Valve... 0 5 0
Re-rubb*»ngUM JDrtuiis ... 12» 6d and 015 0
Wearing Strip*, 1C stew Heavy, 2in. wide 0 5 0
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy, attached. 0 7 6
Wealing Strips,
Wearing Stejpi, Bardin attached ... 0 6 6
Dunlop VaS|» ... -016
Victor Rites 0 6 6
Palmer Tyw* atagg) Tdbe Fabric ... 1 6 0
Bobber SoiwNtta ma& fertwhing Robber.
BBST QUALITY OUTER COVERS GUAR-
ANTEE® FOR 12 MONTHS.
Lists Sent on Application.
Wc (to liepairs.
PERDRIAU &CO.
268 and 270 GEORGE ST.,
Between Hunter wxM
Bond Streets.
SYDNEY,
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Qneen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
the WORTHINGTON
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
. ... IS THE ORIGINAL....
DUPLEX PUMP.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
32 and 34 Clarence Street,
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK*
Sydney, N.S.W.
mn
PULLEY BLOCKS.
Hydraulic and Screw
Jacks
TANGYES’
REPRESENTED IN AUSTRALIA BY
BENNIE, TEARE & 00., Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Ooolgardie.
TO
100 TONS.
LIFTING TACKLE
fs
df
sdfsdfsdf
ROBERTS’
George and |J fl TIT I
Market-Sts. ■ ■ wLm
Board or Apartments at Option.
m
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO. LTD.
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • • •
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your Orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated, always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use bad butter is dear
at any price. The famous “ Berry v brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
n
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING machinery, steam engines AND BOILERS.
SOLE LICENSEES FOR THE MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF
THE ROPP STRAIGHT LINE FURNACE)
.A.3xrlx>
Wethey Multiple Deck Furnace with Cooling Hearth
FOE
Roasting,
Chlorinating,
AND
Desulphurising Ores.
IN STOCK
HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL ENGINES AND BOILERS of all sizes, ROCKBREAKERS, ROLLS, PUL
VERISERS, CONCENTRATORS, HOISTING ENGINES, HORSE WHIMS, PUMPS of all kinds, WATER
WHEELS, PULSOMETERS, BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, COMPRESSORS, ROCK DRILLS, ORE CARS
SKIPS AND BUCKETS, ELECTRO-COPPER PLATES, SHAFTING AND PULLEYS, BELTING, AND OILS.
Blake Steam Pumps
mn
Single & Duplex,
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping
purpose.
ESTTMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN : SONS L W 'J E °
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OE SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square)
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
head office WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
S*e~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S BILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their US9
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 N»w Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
SECOND-HAND
AND
New furniture
(Best Quality).
buy from us axd
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
i:l Saved is equivalent
to £b Earned!
Everj- requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of be?
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices charged else
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Georere-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYOtSEV
Telephone 1023.
