

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY.
CHAMPAGNE.
GXJ AR AKTTEED PURE COCOA.
■A-UXTJ3 BXTMAOX
OF
JVT AT.«-P
S®. G 3-. WATEUM & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney, J
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES > BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
wm
n
Roller, Sfeetfmd Special CHAINS
M**
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
it FIV i I •? fi !*» GEORGE HOTEL, opposite Sb.
KUda Railway Station and Gable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Hay, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-8s ntt street, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for The j e ff re y Manufacture ; Co., Columbus, Ohio, United States, America.
Elevatin? and Conveying Machinery . . .
\T B i tiTlR ’ Sl £ el Ca We Conveyors, Beamless Steel Elevator Buckets, Carriers, Labor-saving Appliances, Coal, Ore and
Cnain Handling Machinery, Power Transmission Machinery, Coal Washing and Mining Machinery.
THORNE’S
M WHISKY.
EUAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAI N A H L E A T ALL II OTKI, L S AN I)
LICENSED
, h - tnfi wr-nn
GROCERS.
I
m
HOBART.
Ijadiey’s Orient ptel.
For what you are about to re-
ceive, may the lord make you
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “ FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbfirs for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
60
— : : ;
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE
W. O. IEnLnDIR.IIDGKE &c GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 lOltlt STREE'I’, S YDNEV
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post /vum all the colonies VTovnvtlv
attended to.
CO
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST
PI OH E'ER
LEATHER
BELT
N CS
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Dui-ability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. VV. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWICTSc SON, LTD.,
11*7 32" 03755: Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
ii
Tales of the System.”
'RICE Is.
Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S A USTRA LIAR
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Most Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
J'oshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
WINES!
WINES !
WINES!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST WiNE^>
AUSTRALIA.
Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TEACHER’S ‘ HIGHLAND CREAM” WHISKY
SOLE AGENTS}
Plumm
Love * Co
J 49 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Voi 21.—N0. 104L.j
, r Saturday, J anuary^>^i^p! jffl).
P postered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Hudson’s “Eumenthor (Registered) Jujubes.
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
all
THROAT & LUNG
AFFECTIONS.
z'
INVALUABLE
for
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC SPEAKERS
Sold by all Chemists, in Tins, Is. 6d. Contains no Cocaine or other poisonous drugs.
n _ from the Proprietor, Q. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any
Or from the Sydney Agen t: S. Taylor, 5 and 7 Queen’s Place.
SST They Rase a Tired Throat, and are helpful in INDIGESTION and DYSPEPSIA, "Sfc
THE RED PAGE
Letter to a Bushfellow.
MY DEAR JOHN, —I have just seen
Boule de Suif ! Positively ! She
left the North Sydney tram- at
Walker-street, and trotted across
the road, in full view of my delighted
eyes. She has not changed one whit
since Maupassant described her and Thdvenot
pictured her. Such a roly-poly ! a real suet-
ball, ball of fat, dumpy, podgy, with plump
little fingers squeezed in at the joints like
rows of short sausages—rather too tightly-
stretched and shiny, perhaps—the bust'enor-
mous ; yet withal so wholesomely, temptingly,
fresh and appetising that it was a pleasure to
look at her. Her face was turned away ; I
did not see her face ; but Maupassant tells
of it—it was
like a ruddy apple—a peony rose just burst, into
bloom—and out of it gazed a pair of magnificent
dark eyes overshadowed by long thick lashes that
deepened their blackness ; and lower down, a
charming little mouth ; dewy to the kiss, and
furnished with a row of tiny milk-white teeth.
Over and above all this she was, they said, full of
inestimable qualities.
Enticing, was she not—to a parched bush-
fellow, for example—hey ?
* * * *
I have quoted the translation in Heine-
mann’s last-year edition of Maupassant’s
story, with the introduction by Arthur
Symons. 'There is the first place in which I
have profoundly disagreed with Arthur
Symons, the man of verse and prose whom
you know as one of the brightest and most
stimulating,of younger English writers. (I
am beginning to fancy that he has passed
his writer’s prime ; and the verses in the
November Dome certainly lacked his. old-
time freshness and brilliancy—they were
not edged.) Maupassant, to my mind as to
others’, is in view of the quantity and quality
of his work chief among French writers of
the conte —which is a more personal thing
than the short story. There are others
who have written good short stories—Balzac,
for example ; Merimee and (lautier and
About ; Copp6e and Merides and Ricliepin
and Anatole France ; —but no one of
them has written contes so-many and so-good
as Maupassant. Merimee is the doubtful ex-
ception ; and certainly Merimee is fine-
more vibrant, perhaps, than Maupassant,
but less pregnant, less subtle, less seducing.
And I apologise for reminding you that Mau-
passant was “ the pupil of Flaubert” ;
that he fought in ’7l ; that he wrote witli that
assiduity of painstaking art displayed no-
where so much as in France ; and that his
best contes (he wrote romans also, of which
we may talk on another occasion) remain
the admiration and despair of rivals. Add
that Maupassant lived from 1850 to 1893 ;
that he lived a life of nervous exaltation and
stimulated his brain till paralysis swamped
it ; and you have an outline of the author of
half-a-dozen novels, a dozen volumes of
shorter stories, two books of travels, a play
or two, and a book of verse—the where-
withal of Fame.
* * * *
Now, Arthur Symons, criticising this man,
begins badly. He says (and in 1899 !)
The first aim of art, no doubt, is the representa-
tion of things as they are.
But it is obviously nothing of the sort—as
has been many times decided for debaters.
The representation of things as they are is
photography, and art comes in the addition
of the human mind. Yet Symons under-
stands that too, for he adds that “ things
are as our eyes see them and as our minds
make them”—so that it is his language which
is at fault. For there is no profit in confusing
the thing in itself—the object, with the ob-
server’s eye and mind ; and a sentence like—
The soul, for instance, is at heart as real as the
body;
is no less confusing; since its value depends
on the fetichistic term “soul,” which comes
trailing a legacy of misapprehensions behind
it, and, though retaining a vague poetic sig-
nificance, has no critical meaning whatever.
So far as artistic consciousness is concerned,
there is no soul, no heart, no spirit—nothing
but a brain. What the brain does not con-
sciously recognise can never be formulated
in art.
• * * *
This paragraph is better, though it deals
only with half-truths—
A story of Maupassant, more than almost any-
thing else in the world, gives you the impression
of manual dexterity. It is adequately thought out,
but it does not impress you by its thought; it is
clearly seen, but it does not impress you specially
by the fidelity of its detail ; it has just enough of
ordinary human feeling for the limits it has im-
posed on itself. What impresses you is the
extreme ingenuity of its handling ; the way in
which this juggler keeps his billiard-balls har-
moniously rising and falling in the air.
That is much more true of “ Boule de
Suif ’’ than it is true of Maupassant’s short-
stories taken in mass. As a generalisation,
most readers of Maupassant will probably
agree that it is false. All through his
preface, indeed, Symons reasons from the
story which he is prefacing—and unjustly,
since that exhibits only one of Mau-
passant’s methods. Nor is the label of
“manual dexterity ” fitting, since all man-
ual dexterity depends on intellectual
dexterity, cerebral dexterity. Clever fingers
mean nothing else but clever brains special-
■rticular centres which give the
tt adjustments, clean strokes,
idences between what the eye
hand executes. Take a car-
penter or joiner, for example. Every em-
ployer knows that one man will bring two
surfaces of wood together so that the eye
cannot detect their point of union ; another,
do what he will, try as he may, can never
hide a gaping joint. But it is only the effect
of the dexterity which is in the hand ; the
camels in the brain and nerves which con-
trol the hand. And this is none the less true
because some hands are better shaped, for
delicate work than others.
* * * *
Yet, in respect of “ Boule de Suif,”
Symons’s meaning is clear and just. “ Boule
de Suif” is one of Maupassant’s most dex-
terous, most workmanlike stories ; and it is
partly this obvious predominance of dexterity
which makes it less satisfactory on the whole
than others such as “La Maison Tellier,”
where the antithesis which Maupassant
loved as a ground-work of plot has a deeper,
more epic significance. The central incident
of “ Boule de Suif ” would usually be held
prohibited to a story-teller in English ; but
the constant wanderings round the sex-
subject in English fiction, the suggestions
and innuendoes, the concealments and with-
drawals, are infinitely more unhealthy, for
writer and reader than the frank French ac-
ceptance of sex as a cardin il force in life, and
of the manifestations t f sex as manifestations
of life, and consequently legitimate subjects
for an art which takes life for its province.
Maupassant writes of sex-passion, when it
comes to his pen, as naturally as he writes
of the passion of avarice or the lust of battle,
—as naturally as he describes scenery and
the emotions received from scenery, —as
naturally as he deals with a hundred phases
of the human enigma. The central incident
of “ Boule de Suif ” is for him artistic
material in the same fashion as any other
incident which stimulates interest, which
gives to smile or weep or ponder. And
as you say, my dear John, bother this
preface : let me briefly indicate the story.
• * * •
Winter in Normandy, time of the Franco-
Prussian war. The town fear-stricken and
sullen under the domination of the con-
querors. But as time passes, the grip re-
laxes a little, permission is given to travel ;
and one morning a coach draws up in the
courtyard of the Hotel de Normandie, ready
for the long two days’ drive to Dieppe. The
passengers get in—an aristocrat and his wife,
a tradesman and his wife, two Sisters of
Mercy, Cornudet the democrat —and Boule
de Suif. Poor Boule de Suif! The day
freezes her ; hut it is nothing like the frost
of the other ladies. They know themselves
so proper, so virtuous ; and——poor Boule
de Suif ! And through the snow and the
slush the coach creaks on ; but slowly, so
slowly. They were to reach Totes at
dinner-time ; but they are a long way
from Totes.. And alone of them all
Boule de Suif has had the forethought to
bring her lunch—an ample lunch—fowls in
jelly, wine, pastry, fruit ; enough for a long
journey. She begins eating daintily ; and
the others are so hungry. How they hate
her ! The good-hearted girl offers to share
her provisions ; they reject—but it is three
o’clock, their hunger is ferocious, they
accept. And as they cannot well eat the
young woman’s provisions and not speak to
her, they converse—stiffly at first, soon
with less reserve, as good Boule de Suif does
not presume, then amicably. And at last
they reach Totes.
A German officer comes to scrutinise them,
a tall, slender, blonde young man with
moustaches waxed to such a point that you
can’t say where they end. He checks the
names and professions on the waybill, regards
the passengers attentively, passes them—
“ All right.” Then supper—how delightful!
and a fire. Suddenly the innkeeper enters.
“ Mademoiselle Elizabeth Rcnisset? ” That
is Boule de Suif. “The Prussian officer
wishes to speak to you at once.” She will
not go ; the others persuade her ; she goes—
and returns in five minutes, oh ! crimson
with rage. “ The low blackguard ! ” The
others are concerned ; but Boule de Suif
will not explain. They sup ; they go to bed.
In the morning—no horses to the coach.
Perplexity—what ? how ? why ? They seek
the driver. “The Prussian officer ordered
me not to put the horses in.” Why ? how ?
what ?—consternation. They seek the officer.
He will see them after lunch. They find
him in his dressing-gown, with his feet on
the mantelpiece, smoking his long porcelain
pjpe__“a brilliant sample of the victorious
military cad,” says patriot Maupassant.
“ Yat do you vant ? ” “We wish to leave.”
“No.” “ May we take the liberty of asking
why?” “Pecause Ido not shoose ” (in his
Alsatian French) ; “you can co away.”
A miserable afternoon ; everybody grum-
bles, nobody understands. As they sit
down to supper, enter the innkeeper once
more. “The Prussian officer wishes to
know if Mademoiselle Elisabeth Rousset has
changed her mind yet?” “Tell the low
scum —never ! ” And she explains to her
fellow-passengers. They are so shocked—
particularly the ladies : Boule de Suif is a
real heroine.
But a day passes; and another day; and im-
perceptibly the atmosphere changes. “This
girl is keeping us here”—and how much
longer ? At every supper-time the inn-
keeoer with his question. Poor Boule de
Suit’ ! —-ghey conspire against her. They per-
suade, they argue ; the two holy Sisters
recite irrelevant tales of people who have
sacrificed themselves for others, of evil done
that good may come—“ for we know that
God pardons the deed if the motive be
pure.” Poor Boule de Suif ! And the
long, wretched days—and the supper-time
innkeeper. And the incessant pleading and
pressure.
On the fifth day Boule de Suif does not
appear at supper. Poor Boule de Suif !
The others are delighted, joyous; only
Cornudet is found to declare against this
Infamy. Poor Boule de Suif ! In the morn-
ing the horses are in the coach. Poor Boule
de Suif ! The others are waiting for her ;
but they do not recognise her, do not see
ber. She gets in timidly; and the coach
begins the long day to Dieppe.
By-and-by the passengers are hungry.
The aristocrat and his wife unpack a roast
hare ; the tradesman and his wife have some
veal; the holy Sisters have sausages ; Cornu-
det has some hard-boiled eggs. Boule de
Suif has nothing—she has forgotten in the
hurry and confusion. The others munch
away placidly, unheeding her, never looking
at-her. She thinks of the basket full of
things she shared, and the tears come
into her eyes—though she does her best to
keep them back. They gather and fall, fall
. . . and she sits up very straight, her gaze
fixed, her face pale and rigid, hoping nobody
will notice.
But the Countess nudges her husband ;
the tradesman’s wife chuckles ; and the two
Sisters of Mercy resume their devotions after
carefully wrapping up the remnant of their
sausages And Cornudet, has an idea—he
whistles the Marseillaise. “ Patriots ! give
yourselves for your country. Liberty 1 fight
on the side of thy defenders.” Paces cloud;
the passengers become nervous, irritable ;
the air is unpleasing. Cornudet takes no
notice.
And all the way to Dieppe, through the
long dull hours, through the jolting and rat-
tling, through the day and through the even-
ing, and later through the night, Cornudet
whistles, forcing the others to follow the
song front end to end, and to remember
every word that corresponds to each note.
“And Boule de Suif wept on, and at
times a sob which She could not repress broke
out between two couplets in the darkness.”
* * * *
That, my dear John, is a skeleton of the
story, museumed for your curiosity. And
I positively saw Boule de Suif getting
out of the tram at Walker-street, with the
face of a rose and the figure of a dumpling—
poor Boule de Suif !
Some correspondents—maddened by the
thought of the Bookfellow’s Mixture, the
Ideal, the Divinity whose veil hath never
been lifted—puff, and puff, and end, alas ! in
smoke. It is “W.L.8.” who speaks—
I read Frank Morton’s article, and have bought
the ingredients of his Mixture. It sounds good— l
and I have made my will. But the pleasure of
smoking is so subtly individualised,—depends so
upon one’s mood, constitution, ancestors, women-
folk, —that you cannot find a rule to fit
all cases. My own cigar - taste runs to
Flor di Cuba soaked in water, and stored
in the ice - chest until just dry enough to
keep alight. Even among experienced smokers
there are few who appreciate the flavour and
aroma of a green cigar as they deserve. When I
was in Teneriffe, famous for its glorious climate,
more glorious mountain, most glorious green
cigars, there were some who talked of Tene-
ruffians. T was a libel; as every smoker of taste
admitted after a week’s trial.
Yet it is the Pipe which is nearer perfec-
tion. Get a good pipe with two stems ; lend
it to your gardener, say, to Smoke for a month
incessantly; then take it back, change the
stem, and enter the smoker’s Paradise. After
three months, hand it to an engineer or enginfe-
driver and let him blow it out with steam ; scrape
it slightly ; and be a God for another three months.
If properly done, the steaming improves the
colour and polish.
Don’t think I am forgetting cigarettes’: they
have a well-defined rank in the smoker’s service.
Get a box of well-dried Turkish, and smoke one
before a cigar: you will find it the entree, the
appetiser before the meat. Have you ever noticed,
when smoking two pipes consecutively, that you
enjoy the second better than the first? The first
seems somehow too rash, too ill-advised, too
sudden; and you attack it too abruptly, it is gone
before you are aware. The second you savour
slowly, enjoying to the full. It is the same, if
you notice,, with
* « * *
No, W.L.B., —for what would Mrs. Grundy
say ? Besides, you were talking of Tobacco,
and must stick to your topic. “Jack Shay ”
sticks—until near the end, anyway—
There exists, somehow, a widespread delusion
that smoking has of necessity some connection
with tobacco ; and, as a consequence, that a good
smoke can only be had when good tobacco is
obtainable. But: “My Lady Nicotine” —like
many other “ Miladies ” nowadays—is often a
patent fraud, a thing of tricks and shams, of
paint, and powder, and padding, and scent—
pshaw! Your “excellent” Havana or Manila
cigar may be made in Hamburg, or Liverpool, or
Hongkong, or Surry Hills ; and owe its flavour to
the chemist, its beautiful colour or shape to a dyer
or a modeller. Your Aromatic plug, or strong or
mild-flavoured Mixture —may be cabbage-leaves
flavoured with aniseed, or bergamot, or rum, or
sugar, or some odoriferous resin. And cigarettes
—well, Egyptian and Turkish cigarettes are made
in Sydney.
This proves that Beauty is in the eye of the
gazer, the mouth of the smoker —what you think
the best tobacco, that is the best tobacco. The
true smoker, like the true toper or the true artist,
is Catholic in his tastes. Smoking the universal
religion (it is a religion) he follows faithfully. As
Roman Catholics kneel to God, as Nonconformists
stand up, as Mohammedans lie down, so the true
smoker—he pipes, he cigars, he cigarettes—and
his smoke is always the one religion. If he can
afford guinea cigars, he will smoke and praise
smoke: if he can only get a cigarette of news-
paper and dry pine-needles, he will smoke and
praise smoke. He is the true votary. If he
smoke—it is enough. And the cigarette of news-
paper and pine-needles is maybe his highest form
of worship.
But, if you insist on the Best Mixture, take a
man for strength, a woman for delicacy, a few
kisses for flavour, and a cigarette to be puffed
alternately. Two hearts beating as one—how
merely poetic ! Two smokers _ smoking as one—
the submergence of the human in the Divine. . . .
And the coiling wreaths of smoke twist and
turn, vague and indefinite, odourless, flavourless,
almost colourless . . . “Pass, Jack; it’s my
puff! ”
All smoke !
THE BOOKEFELLOW.
Reprints.
EPITAPHIUM CITHARISTRIE.
Stand not uttering sedately
Trite oblivious praise above her !
Rather say you saw her lately
Lightly kissing her last lover.
Whisper not, “ There is a reason
Why we bring her no white blossom ” ;
Since the snowy bloom’s in season
Strow it on her sleepy bosom.
Oh, for it would be a pity
To o’erpraise her or to flout her ;
She was wild, and sweet, and witty—
Let’s not say dull things about her.
VICTOR PLARR.
FORESHADOWINGS.
The mirrored stars lit all the bulrush spears,
And all the flags and broad-leaved lily-isles ;
The ripples shook the stars to golden smiles,
Then smoothed them back to happy golden
spheres.
We rowed, we sang; her voice seemed in mine
ears
An angels, yet with woman’s dearest wiles ;
But shadows fell from gathering cloudy piles,
And ripples shook the stars to fiery tears.
God shaped the shadows like a phantom boat
Where sate her soul and mine in Doom’s attire;
Along the lily-isles I saw it float
Where ripples shook the stars to symbols dire ;
We wept—we kissed—while starry fingers wrote,
And ripples shook the stars to a snake of fire.
THEODORE WATTS.
I hear the drum roll, rub-dub-dub,
And the piccolo’s shrill refrain ;
The boys in blue with hearts so true
Are marching home again.
I hear the drum, but it beats for me
Despair and grief’s tattoo ;
I’d be so glad if our only lad—
Our Jim—poor Jim—marched too.
I hear the tramp—the tramp, tramp, tramp
Of the army marching by;
Brave soldiers all, at their country’s call
They went to tight and die.
Their task is done : with heads erect
They pass there in review ;
Instead of tears I’d give them cheers
If Jim—poor Jim—marched too.
I hear the clank, the clank, clank, clank
Of the swords of the captains gay ;
But my worn eyes rest on the blood-stained crest
Of. a hill far, far away.
They left him there where the weeping winds
Sing dirges faint and few —
They’re home—God’s light ! how grand the sight
If Jim— poor Jim —marched too.
Gkorge Hobart, in “ Baltimore American .”
A SWAN-SONG.
I am glad I have known what it is to be glad,
To dive, and to drift, and to whirl, in the foam,
To hoard the gold suns of the Summers I had,
Brief, beautiful Summers, to idle, to roam,
To preen and to kiss and to build up a home
For my Love, in the reeds, where no trouble could
come.
I am glad I have known what it is to be glad.
I am glad I have known what it is to be strong,
To breast billows, fight winds, bend with foe in
the fray, . _
I am glad I have known what it is to be strong.
I rejoice to have known what it is to be sad,
To lie in the shallows and watch mighty wrong,
To call when my Love answers not through the
spray.
I am glad to have known what it is to be sad.
I am glad that to soar I am given at length.
The arrow that wounded n;e hurls me along ;
I am glad I may sing of the glory of strength ;
I am glad I may sing though I die with my song.
I am glad that'the music shall rise to the Giver
Of all—and that, dying, I fall to the breast of my
river,
My silver-smooth river that taught me this song.
FLAVIAN ROSSER.


second-hand
AND
WEW furniture
(Best Quality).
)
BUY FROM US AND.
K SAVR 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 60 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspeot.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 Geortre-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
iffa'n Wkeaded.
Ss9leii) ‘ybkcotiery
”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
t3A RCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
“ Woolloston House, Castleinaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it.—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.O.,says
“ Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir, —I have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
LIGMOLLIENE CREAM SOAP
(Registered.)
Is a Pure, Neutral, strongly Antiseptic, and Curative
Soap, for the treatment of parasitic, and the various
superficial affections of the skin, among which may be
mention'd, ITCHING, PRICKLY-HEAT, CHAPPED
HANDS, SUNBURN, &c. It allays instantaneously all
irritation and soreness, and is especially valuable for the
cleansing of wounds, and ulcers. It will also be found a
thorough luxury for shampooing, effectually cleansing
the scalp from Dandriff, and for all nursery and bath
purposes.
Ligmolli ne Cream Soap is sold in oval tablets at Is
each, stamped with the trade mark “ Ligmolliene.” Can
be obtained from all chemists throughout Australasia.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HENRY MALYON,
Manufacturing ('hem Ist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. aivl 'y <~j. ocl. >V2r=?,csla..
IsF"’Postcd anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents ’-EI.LIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney ;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE.
'sm
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, MONCHITIS,
DIAEPtHCEA, bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—-
Dr.J.COLUS BROWNS.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BMVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
blingtlu' constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
FER BRAVAIS
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
FER BRAYAIS
Highly recommended
for weak and
1 debilitated children.
LANCET “A beautiful and interesting
preparation. ”
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL. Ithas nil
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion.and
it does not blacken the teeth "
'-O’ '• BY CHEMISTS ATI, THE WOTII.D OVER.
WHOLESALE : Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette,
Farmer’s Knife
RS N? 244774.
W. JNO. BAKER’S
FARMER’S or STATION
KNIFE (Regd.)
Length when dosed, 4 inches. 7s. each, post free, or 3 for 20s.
Smaller size for vest pocket, 6s. each.
Pearl or Tortoiseshell handle for presentation, small, Bs. 6d.
and large, 10s. 6d. each ; posted free to any colony. Name
engraved, Is. each.
"W. JUNTO.
AKER, Cutler, 3 Hunter-st., Sydney
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
A LIMITED.
Offices: • 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores—Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
CYANIDE.
OUICKSIL VER.
NOYES BROS.,
31 O’CONNELL STREET,
SYDNEY;
17 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
jfcftt oup >**'C
&o(c& UJM
ASK FOR
COMBINES
m
PERFECTION Of QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY
3
MOIR’S
ANCHOVY PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs.
Manufacturers i
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
i *
THE
MUD
RA.HERVEY.
171 CLARENCE ST
“ COMMON SENSE EAR DRSTM.”
THE
DEAF
HEAB
(COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that it
anyone who is afflicted with Nervousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
Box 166, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
30 Days’ Trial.
n
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A RELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing,' vre prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address —R. CORNWALL, Manager Mating Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth : st,reet, SYDNEY."
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
a
MEDICATOR.
/'CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smeli, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skuli. The putrid
discharge passing’ through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you. want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma. Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Noiijf Caftsrrfe CGrc
23i com.:::s street. Melbourne
mn
A
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 william STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE '
m
Blutlmer
PIANOS
Albert Fahr
PIANOS
August Heide
PIANOS
Estcy Organs
Pianos
and
Organs
-ON-
Very
Easy
Terms
The Most Popular Piano in Australia.
* THE
BLUTHNER
PIANOFORTE S
Grand and Upright.
Descriptive Catalogues and Price Lists on
Application to
How to Learn
the Piano
in 3 Months.
Price, 2s. 6d.
Post Pree.
Federal
Music Books
Nos. 1 to 52.
The Best Shilling
Annuals in the
World.
Catalogues mailed free to
any address.
S©l^
Agents-
n
mn
359 Crsorg'e Street, Sydney.
272 & 274 Collins St., Melbourne.


_ Afldress:
Care GEO. ADAMS.
Hotoart.
•.• : / ■ - 1
Launceston C. February 7.
50,0 DD Sub33ribara at 0«
To TATTERS ALL.
Please, allot me— shares in the above.
Name
Address ,
Hobart C. February 13.
£O,OOO Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo.
.shares in above.
Kamo
s
Address
Newmarket H. Marcli 3
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
Newmarket H. (special).
50,000 Subscribers at B.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Kamo
Address.
Australian C.
March C.
50,000 Subscribers at Q.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in tlio above.
Kamo.
Address,
Maitland C. March 9.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To tATTERSALL.
Please allot me _shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


THIN
m
n
HAIR
Lots of peo-
ple have thin
hair. Per-
haps their
parents had
thin hair; per-
haps their
children have
thin hair. But
this does not
make it neces-
sary for them
to have thin hair.
One thing
you may
rely upon-
makes the
hair healthy
and vigor-
ous ; makes
it grow
H&IP
visor
thick and long. It cures dan-
druff also.
It always restores color to
gray hair, —all the dark, rich
color of early life. There is
no longer need of your look-
ing old before your time.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies the blood,
and clears the complexion.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. 5. A
A\EN
f JNDIOE;Tion
riT'Wnya
WxVo v/5
HEADACHE
FEDERAL
PALACE
m
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation —all prices—ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAKE
Tb« B. ai)d N.Trcatnjcot
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of tbis medicine in restorin',' Nerve, Brain
ami Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
I,oss of Energy, Amentia, Failing memory, and Premature
Deltav, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned,'that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The 15. and N. l'ood is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared "ith the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputablephar-
in mist. It. is recomtn ml. i with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency :
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
ffijj
DEAF
n
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
(Completely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address- A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
mm
<3-0 TO HBXjiL-
IIiIH.AN I > for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Hageo,
foreign stamp importer,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
ACiStraliao tyfitfial ProVidcijt Society.
MONET TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Onr New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying no*
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
mn
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Backboards, £0
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
£3T Send for I’rice List. "Si
H. HILLIEB, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNErST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Semi for a Catalogue.
m
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 S: sex-street.
Works: MELBOURN..-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLINS
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIBHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DY£
3K
:
.
m
m
1/-,
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
KOKO MARICOPAS COY., LTD., IG.BF.V I SHARKS
'LONDON,_EN G LAN D.J
The j
Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN,
LINTON, 1
says:—
** 1 har* used
your * KOKO ’!
in w since June'
last, and 1 hate
not only st |>|>td
the (ailing out,
,\vhi(h had been
exce»?ive after a
severe illness.hut
lhave an entirely]
new gr<-wtn «•(:
hair, wh.le the
old hair is longer
As i : m not a
young woman,
but an old one. I
think this is a
convincing test,
of your prepare*
tion.'*
GOOD
HAIR FOR ALL!
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland's Marvellous Hair Eestcrer.
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decnv, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ‘Price— 35., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND'S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. (id. Postage,
9d. extra.
VVAMU.'OiON li. bol b & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
.K'■
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or t o Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Grout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
medicine for Infants,
CUilarcn, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
■ 2
Sold Throughout the Wond.
N.8.-ASK FOR DIN NF FORD’S MAGNESIA,
.S.'W. Carriage & Saddlery Company.
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pav us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description or
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, A 5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, r 7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, ell.
Double Buggies, ±2O. Buckhoard Buggies from C 9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every deseription of vehicles in Stock arid Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misltd by any tirms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Iledfern Railway Station).
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
nmn
Dollrered at anj Wharf or
N.B.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Propinquity.
(AN IDYLL.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
0 Nymphs whose charms arc on the wane,
And maidens who are plain to tee,
To Cupid pray no more in vain,
But reverently bend the knee
To One who dwells in nearer fane,
And will not your appeals disdain l
The strongest God of Love is he,
The kindly god—Propinquity /
A year ago—one little year—
Each afternoon at 4 o’clock,
When Arthur Percy Brown was her®
His presence glorified the Block.
The Block is still the hub of Town
But where is Arthur Percy Brown?
Of all the bank-clerks superfine
Who walk about to ornament
The City, when the sun doth shine,
He was the choicest-looking gentj
And, though his head was like a pear,
He had a most distinguished air.
The fairest Nymphs who come to Town,
With colours gay to cheer the street,
They smiled on Arthur Percy Brown,
But he was cold as widows’ feet—
Ho passed them by with frigid stare,
For all his thoughts were otherwhere.
His dignity was firmly set.
lie held it up as, you may note,
A lady, when the streets are wet,
Holds up a satin petticoat;
With dainty clutch she grabs the skirt,
To keep it from the common dirt.
With Fancy’s eye he saw his Bride
That was to be—a damsel fair,
The heiress of a country-side—
And kept a stainless crest for Her.
He meant to give her fame and rank*
This modest orchid of the l’ank.
But fat directors, full of meat,
For bank-clerks’ dreams have small Regard.
With fl at, remorseless, shovel feet ■
On voung Romance they trample— hard.
And Mr. Arthur Percy Brown
Was sent to dwell at Dingotcwn.
Now Dingotown is in the West —
As wildly West, as West can be—
Its only spots of interest,
They are the local cemet’ry—
Which twice a year by flood is drowned—
The pub’s, the lock-up, and the Pound,
The lone, long street of Dingotown
Is jagged with stumps of primal trees,
An I there walked Arthur Percy Brown,
An exiled Alcibiades.
He walked alone, for he was proud,
And scorned the crude bucolic crowd.
The g rls of Dingotown were good
As girls have any need to be ;
But then, their health it was so rude
To him it seemed ferocity.
Their feet were large ; their hips were wide ;
They filled the view from side to side.
Yet no young man can moon alone,
From day to day, with girls around ;
So Arthur Percy dropped his tone
Exclusive, and a sweetheart found —
A temporary amour he
Had then in mind, had Arthur P.
She was the Belle of Dingotown—
A short, square girl with sleepy eyes
But, somehow, Arthur Percy Brown
At first thought little of his prize.
Her accent made, him shudder—yet
One takes the best that one can get.
So when his work was done, and he
Had all the hours of eve to spare,
The twain walked out in company,
And he made lightsome love to her,
And marked not, when he chucked her chin,
The solid jaw beneath the skiu.
But objects near the vision fill,
When one forgets the things afar }
A jam-tin on the nearest hill
When touched by sunlight seems a star—
And so it was with A. P. Brown
And that shy Belle of Dingotown.
For dny-by-day, as days went by,
And lie forgiot his City art
He looked on her with kindlier eye,
Until, at last—she had his heart.
She had his heart—her grip was grim—
And there was no escape for him.
So, bit by bit, and day by day,
lie did to his surroundings bow ;
His tio was knotted anyway ;
Ilis hair was parted anyhow :
He slouched, and, as the time went on,
He walked like a diprotodon.
A year ago—one little year—
Each afternoon at four o’clock,
When Arthur Percy Brown was here
His presence glorified the Block —
The Block is still the hub of Town—
But where is Arthur Percy Brown ?
In Dingotown is A. P. Brown,
In safe, strong hands of Agnes Neale ;
The bells rang up, the bells rang down,
On Sunday last, their wedding-peal.
The Heiress-Bride—the stainless crest —
Will soon become a Nuptial Jest.
So Nymphs whose charms are on the wane,
And maidens who aire plain to see,
To Cupid pray no more in vain
But seek the God—Propinquity.
To any girl who knows her trade
The nearest can be Dearest made.
CREEVE ROE.


IMPORTANT.
h „ It™™* 111I 11 r ® cent years affects the pockets of the masses in Australia as
,i<^ aCt 'TH. at i a r ° ofll lS from 2/- to 12/- per square cheaper than Iron is already at our
ih . e bes <; endorsement is the fact that its insulating and enduring properties
are recognised by the Government of New South Wales, ‘ H
who are using it in the roofs of the Customs House, the General Post Office, on the
tram-cars, etc. Its name is
P-&B. RUBSROID ROOFING,
and it is successfully Laid over Galvanised Wire Netting.
E. RICH <& CO. LTD. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
TatterSall’S Hotel
Pitt Street, Sydney.
W. J. Adams, Manager,
Pick out what is best in all the
other Sydney hotels, and you
have Tattersall’s.
Tariff—los. per Day.
£3 per WeeJe.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
m
SPECIAL VALUE &. RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V.FINCKH&COB3 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
GAS COOKERS.
The “ Eureka ” gas gooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The A ustralian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and 10s. Monthly, until paid off.
If sas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
EST” Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN THE
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
Greatest demand
Cameo Ci^ rstUs
Because the Best.
NOBELSLASSOW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
nm
. ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
.Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
AGENTS: N.S.W., Messrs. Dalgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria,
w
f
A
NOBEL’S SportiQg BALLISTITE.
Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
Does not strain the gun.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
t>y
MOISTURE.
TE
m
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
SPORTING- BALLISTITE won over ,£2500 at Gun .Club, Notting Hill and Hurlmg-
ham in April and May, 1899 ; or over £lOOO more than any other powder.— Vide Field, June 24, 99.
PARVO 2-inoh Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and . Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland , Messrs. Brabant & Co.
SPEGIFICHTiOnS.
CHEAPER THAN IRON.
1. Frame your roof of rafters 2ft.
lOin. apart, centre to centre.
2. Provide Galvanised Wire Net-
ting 3ft. wide, 3in. mesh, and
16 gauge, which should be fixed
by nailing the selvage (drawn
straight) to the end rafter from
ridge to eaves with small clout
nails. Then stretch it tight
and nail the other selvage to
the second rafter, after which
secure the ends to ridge and
eaves.
3. When one set is laid with net-
ting lay the first sheet of
'Ruberoid, starting at the top
and allowing 3in. to go over the
ridge on to the other side. Nail
the. Ruberoid permanently with
the nails provided along the
ridge and down the first rafter
leaving the other edge free, the
nails being 2in. apart at points.
4. Provide 3in. x lin, battens and
nail securely to the under-side
of the rafters (about 4ft. apart),
first spreading the rafters (with
wedges) in order to make the
netting perfectly true and firm.
n
to : : 'r
i/i i i
“1 i j
I
v-<
ffj
t //
///
K&S
c<*
\\
\\
rrt
S H.,*:;
: , fie-V-f!*
frP
Si
Vi i
¥:
m
Herbert L Ross
Architect
Sydney
Rafters may be 2 inches wide
IF OF SOFT PIN£, (if OF HAROWOOO THEY
MAY BE 2i OR 5 INCHES WIDE) BY
4 INCHES DEEP. LONCITUDINAL BATTENS
AT A. A ARE 5 x I "AND ARE NAILED UNDER
THE RAFTERS TO STIFFEN THEM.
5 Now set the second length of wire netting as before, and, when secured, insert the second sheet of Ruberoid 2in. under the free edge of the first sheet. . . .
6 Brush the two parts of Ruberoid lapping with the Ruberine (cement) and nail through the two thicknesses of Ruberoid on to the centre of the rafter, the nails being 2m. apart as
before and the sheets stretched tight and even. When nailed, paint over the nails and joint with the Ruberine (cement) and proceed with the third length of netting, always
leaving one edge of the Ruberoid free. Do not secure more than one length of netting at a time so you will be able to lean over to nail the free edge of the Kuberoici on tne
7. For vertical walls, set the studs 2ft. lOin apart, and the battens 3ft. apart (centre to centre), sunk flush with the outside of your studs over which the whole of the netting may be
laid at once. Lay your Ruberoid vertically and secure the same as on the roof. _
8. When roofs are not'walled in (as in the case of stack roofs, &c.) ordinary fencing wire may be laced diagonally both ways (three feet apart) on top of the roof, and should he secured
to each rafter with a staple.
Agents: E. RIOH & CO. LTD,
SYDNEY.
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1041.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 27, 1900.
Price Gd.
G rabine,
Jan 19, 'OO,
W. Macleod, Esq.,
Bulletin Office,
Sydney.
Dear Sir, —I enclose cheque for one pound with
sixpence added for exchange, and for same will
you please send me Bulletin weekly for a year, •
starting from next issue of same. If the staff are
still lamenting over the £1 6s. perhaps it. will
cheer them up a little to know someone has given
one pound to have the privilege of reading the
Bulletin weekly for one year instead of going to
the patriotic fund ; even the office cat may smile
again.
Yours faithfully,
A. S. B. COBB.
Grabine,
Mount McDonald
BllSll/ESS
J/VILL NOW
ON
A s'USUAL
T3ur readers rqay remember the catastrophe depicted in our issue of January 6 and reproduced here (see top 0/ pa:iej. Well, the devil looks after his own (see Utter m right-hand^ abmA jwi ' (No.lj the
managing-director has seen his way to take down the shutters again. (2). The Editor revived in a marvellous fashion when it became known that money was flowing in. AsTo 7 nO , neceaBar il v (however
tram got the worst of it He is here seen gloating over the remains of the vanquished motor. (4). It is gratifying to know that the self-inflicted injuries of the Libel Cntio and r-t-nmorthpr- d-Hes
desirably) fatal; with careful nursing and kindly treatment he may get on his feet again. (5). The Printer’s Devil has deserted from the Army and has returned to his post. J 6) Martha as mgton s ' f
(at an increased salary), and may here be seen through the window executing some much-needed renovation. (7.) The Chancellor of the Exchequer took charge of the newly-acquired funds, 1 c e led p
his pocket-handkerchief (8.) The Fighting Editor promised to forgive everything provided he got his arrears of salary. Up to date, nothing has been torgiven. _ ... fnotmth-
(9.) The minion of the law at last begins to show a lively interest in everything connected with the establishment. (10.) Old Hop says hell be dashed if he comiM back. He has P y "£ So , Y ou mav look for the
decorator, and has had to extend his operations to the roadvyay. (11) The Woman’s Column, true to the instincts of her sex, conducted herself like an angel, and a mimstenng one . - O- •) ,
Horse-poet here in vain He has turned permanently loyal, and now edits theS.M. Hkbald war-maps. (13.) The Mining Expert has struck, a copper-lode m George-street It
plant, but keen mum ! (14.) The office £t is here seen discussing the situation with the wild ditto. (15.) The wild cat. is suspected of entertaining secret pre-Boer opinions (ItL) The officechaplain - g«at that taUetu
tiGenaed Homicide, and has already killed hie man. (IX*) Hop’s "Under-Study couldn’t find anything honest to do for a living, so he is again on the staff. (18.) Hert you have ali ely sc ne bot. ** P -•*-
and our subscribe*
THE SITUATION IN LOWER GEORGE-STREET.—SAVED


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the A astralUins.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co,,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order , Postal Note ,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have Tim Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressed j. P.
Archibald.
ffi^Z&xxlZeZzai.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 27, 1900.
Westralian Separation.
Since Big John Forrest did his curious
double shuffle over the Federation move-
ment, and Westralia’s clumsy-footed Legis-
lative Council threw out both Federation
schemes and put a large local hoof on the
whole idea of union, it has been evident
that trouble of some kind was impend-
ing in the land of the Sandgropers.
The trouble has since resolved itself
into a defiuite demand on the part
of the Goldfields for separation. They
are tired of big, foolish Backdown John—
John always backs down to the pressure
that is nearest to' him, and the little paro-
chial fragment that cries out at his back-door
in Perth seems larger to him than the
majority that is further off. They are weary
of Forrest’s spiritual nigger - driver,
Hackett, the man who keeps Big John’s
soul in his tail-pocket. They are weary of
the theory that the hub of the universe is at
Bunbury, and that the world revolves round
Harper’s front-door handle. They are
especially weary of the theory that an
elector at Kalgoorlie, merely because
he is a miner, should have only one-
hundredth part the political power of
an elector at Ashburton, because he keeps
a few gaunt bullocks on a patch of sand.
The majority wants to join the Australian
Commonwealth, and help to form a nation
whose whole soul isn't buried in Bunbury ;
and as a small minority, aided by an in-
famously narrow and stupid Parliamentary
system, blocks the road, the majority wants
to go its own way, and leave the minority to
moulder by itself.
m * m •
If there is anything in the alleged rights
of man, in the alleged self - governing
privileges of British subjects, in the alleged
“British fairplay,” in the claim of the
majority to govern, and in all the beautiful
principles in the name whereof Australia is
helping bo bash a small and strictly Pro-
testant nation in South Africa, the case
of the Westralian Goldfields for separa-
tion is too strong to be disputed. Almost
every bad thing that Kruger has
done, or been accused of doing, John
Forrest and his political pimps have
accomplished, and more. Kruger is charged
with having levied a heavy tariff chiefly de-
signed to benefit the old inhabitants at the
expense of the Outlanders ; the John For-
rest Government levied one almost exactly
twice as heavy. The Kruger Government
levied direct taxation on the gold-finders ;
the Forrest Government’s direct taxation
was much heavier. Kruger so exploited
the new industries of the Transvaal that he
raised the public revenue from something
very modest per head to an amount which
“loyal ” papers in Australia speak of with a
shudder ; John Forrest, whose country
also raised a very small revenue per head
before the .gold-finders came, screwed them
till he exacted more per inhabitant than
Kruger ever did. And in the matter of the
suffrage, Paul Kruger was a liberal-minded
old Dopper by comparison „ with John
Forrest, and the old, hard-fighting
veteran compared very favorably with the
flkbby politician who fled for his life
when accidentally prodded with his secre-
tary’s gamp. The man with the gun refused
what was called “ adequate representation ”
td aliens who, by all the laws of nations,
ltyve no claim to any share whatever in the
government of the country. The man with
tlje umbrella-bruise refused it to citizens who
have every right to a full share in the control
of public affairs. Under the Westralian
political system, which reckons that an Out-
sider electorate should have about one-tenth
th[e amount of representation per head which
by an electorate of agricultural
Sandgropers, Kalgoorlie is just about as
effectively disfranchised as Johannesburg
was. The situation may not look quite so
bad, but it is equally bad. If in a House of,
say, 40 members, one-half the population,
representing one distinct set of interests, has
five or even ten members, and the other
half, representing a different set of interests,
has 30 or 35, the former crowd is as certainly
out-voted, and has as little say in the making
of laws, or the control of expenditure, as if
it had no members at all.
• • * •
In the Westralian Constitution there is a
most unusual proviso to the effect that the
British Sovereign reserves the absolute right
to grant Separation to any part or parts of
the province. The Colonial Boundaries Act
of later date declares that no self-governing
dependency shall be cut up without the con-
sent of its own Legislature. But this Act
doesn’t profess to repeal the clause in the
Westralian Constitution above-mentioned.
Moreover, it seems hardly possible that it
can be held to apply to Westralia, for it
would be an unprecedented thing for the
British Government to radically alter the
Constitution of any self-governing province
without consulting it in the matter. Such a
course of action would imply the power to
make any kind of alteration—to abolish one-
man-one-vote, or to wipe out the Assembly
and hand over all power to the Upper
House, or to abrogate Parliament’s con-
trol of the finances, or to patch,
upset or altogether withdraw the Constitu-
tion at pleasure. If the Westralian
Legislature had passed an Act abolishing
the Queen’s power of granting Separation,
and that amending Act had been sent to
England and assented to there in the usual
way, the power of Separation would un-
doubtedly be gone. And then, without
doubt, the Colonial Boundaries Act would
apply to Westralia. As matters stand, it
seems very unlikely that Act will be held to
apply to Westralia. The British Parlia-
ment doesn’t usually put its foot through
the Constitution of a self-governing province
in that off-hand fashion.
* * * *
Therefore there is good and reasonable
cause to believe that the British Government
will hold that the power of granting Separa-
tion still exists, and can be exercised with-
out any reference at all to the Ministry of
John of Bunbury. If it does, the chances
in favor of the Separationists are very great.
The British Government is strongly in
sympathy with the Federation movement,
and the mean and clumsy dodges by which
the Forrest crowd prevented any reference
to the people on that question are not likely
to excite sympathy in Britain. If it is-
possible to strain a point in favour of the
Separationists the chances are that the
British Government will strain it, if only
because the proposed new province is
strongly in favor of joining the Common-
wealth, and separation will help on a move-
ment in which the present Ministry in Lon-
don is understood to take a deep interest.
The vast array of names on the petition will
show that the demand for severance is
almost universal on the Goldfields. Also
an exposition of the Forrest party’s dis-
graceful methods of faking the franchise and
allotting the Parliamentary representation
almost wholly among its own conservative
little crowd will fully explain why this huge
section of the population finds it necessary
to appeal to the British Government for jus-
tice, instead of supplying itself with the
article locally. Moreover, in the interests
of the Commonwealth, the petition will
doubtless have all the advocacy that can be
given it by the Federal delegation which is
about to proceed to England. No doubt the
Forrest Government will indite all the
reasons it can adduce on the other side, but
the Forrest Government is slow of speech
and confused in ideas, and makes pothooks
and hangers on a large sheet of paper in a
laborious and unconvincing fashion. If the
expediency of the proposed change becomes
a matter of argument, with Forrest and
Wittenoom representing one interest and
Edmund Barton and Alfred Deakin the
other, it will be a fight with a coal-shovel as
against a Maxim gun.
* m m *
Forrest and his supporter, Hackett of
the West Australian, both view the Separ-
ation movement with contempt, which is,
perhaps, something in its favor. The dull-
witted Premier and the rather dull-witted
boss of a very dull paper are men
whose capacity for being wrong is
quite remarkable. Even if, as they
too confidently assume, it is decided that
the letter of the law is against the
Separationist party, it by no means follows
(as Hackett and Forrest apparently
imagine) that the matter ends there. The
letter of the law is a'very beautiful thing
printed in nice large type tin nice white
paper with a wide margin, but even the most
beautifully-printed law has often proved to
be only ink and paper after all. If the
present movement failed, and, in the pride
of their large swelled heads and their small
minority, the Forrest party still refused
to give the Goldfields adequate representa-
tion, and refused to refer the Federation
Bill to the people, and insisted that the
province which comprises one-third of Aus-
tralia should still revolve round Bunbury,—
many things might happen. If a represen-
tative Convention, elected by the people of
the would-be seceding districts, intimated to
the British Government that it was pro-
foundly loyal to the Crown, and yearned to
perish, if need be, in the interests of the
empire, but that it would no longer submit
to be practically disfranchised by Forrest s
one-horse oligarchy, it might possibly get the
ear of the British Government in a serious
moment. When the British Government
was fully convinced that the movement was
in no sense directed against it, but solely
against a petty parochial boss, it is very un-
likely that it would risk civil commotion in a
hitherto peaceful and loyal, not to say grovel-
some land, merely to uphold that small
boss’s local supremacy and incapacity. John
Forrest isn’t essential to the empire, or very
useful to it, or even very ornamental in it.
• -* * *
The case of Westralia is not at all like that
of Queensland. In Queensland a small
minority demanded separation, and went the
way of most minorities. In Westralia it
will probably prove to be a case of a majority,
or at least a fair half, of the population de-
manding severance, and a sheet of paper
with a statute printed on it is a weak armour
against a majority if once it moves in dead
earnest. If the British Government is
convinced that the demand for separation
is made in dead earnest, that some-
thing large must needs happen if it isn’t
granted, that the majority is every whit as
loyal as the minority, and that opposition
isn’t a case of defending British interests,
but merely of defending a clumsy and tact-
less politician against the natural results of
his own clumsiness, it may possibly tear up
a good many things in the interests of peace.
It may begin by tearing up Forrest,
which can be done by the simple process
of the British viceroy giving him the sack
and inviting someone who seems blessed
with more horse-sense to form a Ministry.
The “Age’s” Reasons for War.
Just now, as at all times when a big war is in
progress, there is a demand for all kind of litera-
ture, no matter how false or silly, abusing the
enemy. And where there is a demand there is
also a, supply. If circumstances caused a sudden
opening for books scandalising Queen Victoria,
the British and foreign press would probably
teem in like manner with books proving that that
ordinary and perfectly respectable old lady had been
guilty of almost everything. If the demand was
sufficient, books would probably come out proving
that she had been guilty of quite everything. At
present, however, the hunger is for works which
heave the most irrelevant and mixed and remark-
able charges at the Transvaal people and Govern-
ment. The conscience of the people wants to be
salved by assurances that the Boers don’t wash,
that they chew tobacco, that they swindle, that
their piety isn’t genuine, that they are ignorant
and don’t wear their hair the way they should do,
and all manner of things. One Fitzpatrick, who
was imprisoned in the Transvaal for treason,
wherefore he is naturally a perfectly unbiassed
witness, has published a book of this kind, and
Melbourne Age endeavors to crowd the publication
down the public throat in the following fashion.
* * * *
Mr. Fitzpatrick gives an enormous mass of facts and
figures which conclusively prove that President Krugbr’s
treatment of the Outlanders was nothing more patriotic
than an organised system of plunder and blackmail. The
Transvaal employs in its public service none but Boers and
Germans, In 1886, when the immigration of Outlanders
began, the fixed salaries of Government officials amounted
to £51,831. In 1899 their total was no less than £1,216,394,
or 24 times as much, and is equal to five times the whole
revenue in 1886. This sum, if equally distributed, would
give £4O per head per annum to the total Transvaal Boer
population. It must be remembered that nine-tenths of
the revenue thus squandered is paid by the Outlanders.
So with education. In spite of all promises, the actual
facts about the State schools are that in 1896, out of a
total expenditure of £63,000, the sum spent on Outlander
children was £650, or Is. lOd. per head, while £8 6s. Id.
per head was spent on the Dutch children. The foreigners
naturally pay nearly all the revenue of the Netherlands
Railway Company, whose line is fed by those from Cape-
town, Natal, and Delagoa Bay, which is entirely in Ger-
man, Hollander and Boer hands. Its debentures were
issued at £9O 155., when loans on the same interest and
security were quoted at par ; and for whole sections of the
earthworks a Hollander firm was paid £23,500 per mile,
when the market price was under £BOOO a mile. The
financing of this company by the monopolists involves
a loss of £160,000 in interest alone. Yet it
pays 12J per cent, per annum, owing to the
enormous freights levied, for instance, on coal. If the
rates were brought down to three times as much as the
Cape railways charge, the industries of the country, all
in Outlander hands, would be saved £150,000 per annum.
Goods coming on to the Transvaal railways from the
Cape are charged B|d. per ton per mile, more than twice
as much as the rate on goods coming by the other lines.
We already knew that the dynamite monopoly took
£600,000 a year out of the mines and put it into the
pockets of the Dutch concessionaire. Mr. Fitzpatrick
gives chapter and verse to show that everything has been
turned into an instrument for looting the Outlander on
the same colossal scale.
Definite proof is also available now of innumerable in-
stances of wholesale bribery and corruption. Kruger
himself in 1889 accepted a loan of £7OOO from the
Treasury at 21 per cent, interest. In 1892 he had a dam
constructed on his own farm out of State funds at a cost
of £4500, and a road, estimated to cost £l5OO, which ac-
tually cost £5OOO. His son-in-law, Eloff, pegged out some
valueless ground as a mining claim, and when the Volks-
raad refused to confirm the action of the Government in
converting this ground into residential “stands” or
blocks, the Government promptly paid £25,000 to Mr.
Eloff for it as a coolie location. The Standard and
Diggers’ News has been represented in Australia as
a Labor journal. It is interesting to learn that its
proprietor, a Mr. Emmanuel Mendelssohn, was granted
by the Government, over the head of the Johannesburg
municipality, a concession for the sewering of the town,
which this strange advocate of labor boasted was worth
a million sterling, though he paid nothing for it beyond
the political services rendered to Kruger by his paper.
Some of the • contracts given to friends of the oligarchy
are even more astonishing. A Mr. Barend Vorster was
one of the greediest brigands. He got a contract for sup-
plying, donkeys at a certain figure, and procured them in
Ireland and South America at about one-sixth of the con-
tract price. Then, averring that he had no means of his
own, he secured an advance of three-quarters of the con-
tract-money—this is, for every £lOO he really had to pay,
he received an unsecured advance of £450. This ingenious
gentleman indeed touched high-water mark in the con-
cession he secured for the Selati Railway, which em-
powered him to get the line built at £9600 a mile. Within
two days the contract was sublet at £7002, a “clean
steal ” of over half a million, &c., &c.
* * * *
The first thing that is worth noticing in Mr.
Fitzpatrick’s book is that he doesn’t give what
can fairly be called “ definite proof ” of anything.
In most cases he quotes no authority for his state-
ment, but just dumps it down off-hand, as any
other person might dump down the statement that
Australian politicians were given to cannibalism.
In the beginning he (or the Age) is convicted of
absolute- falsehood on his (or its) own figures. If
the Transvaal official salaries were, in 1899,
£1,216,394 that wouldn’t be, if equally distributed,
£4O per Transvaal Boer (there are 70,000 of
them or a little more), but much less than half
that sum. Possibly, the statement about the
amount of the salaries is the same taradiddle as
t he calculation which follows it.
Next there is the horrid accusation (which ap-
pears to be advanced as a reason for the war)
that the Netherlands Railway Co. issued its £IOO
debentures at £9O 15s. Why the price of
Transvaal railway debentures should be an Aus-
tralian grievance isn’t explained, and seeing that
Victoria, the province where the Age is published,
sold its £IOO Government debentures at £9olos. 6d.
net as late as ’92, it ill becomes a Victorian paper
to want the blood of a small State because a
railway co. therein located sold its much worse
securities at a higher price.
■ * * * *
Then the indictment goes on to call, by the
clearest implication, for blood and battle and con-
quest and sudden death, on the ground thatthesame
Transvaal railway co. paid £23,500 per mile for
earthworks on its line when the market price was
only £BOOO. As the only important line which the
Netherlands Co. built (it bought the rest from the
Cape Colony and Natal Governments) struggles
over the great Drakenberg range, it is possibly
rock-blasting and not earthworks that are
meant. Somewhat similar mountain railways built
by good engineers in Peru cost £40,000 a mile ;
and in New South Wales a less formidable rail-
way cost over £30,000 per mile. At all
events Australia is asked to howl with
a vague sense of deep injurv because this far-off
railway co. is alleged to have thus foolishly
scattered its own money. Why Australia should be
lashed into warlike fury against any country because
a railway syndicate therein thus made a fool of
itself with its own money doesn’t appear. But it
is vaguely understood that the swindle was this
The Outlanders were so oppressed by the high
rates charged by the Netherlands Railway Co.
(apparently before it was made) that they urged
the Government to take it over, and the co. there-
fore swelled the price of the line by paying these
exorbitant sums for the making of it, on the off-
chance that the Government would buy it at cost,
and it might thus get its lost cash back. And the
Government, it seems, connived at this fraud so
that, if it took over the line at cost, it would have
to pay more for it. The motives seem a trifle mixed
all round, but the Age intelligence, when it is
howling for Blood, rises superior to mixed motives.
The Bulletin, personally, has no knowledge at
all of Transvaal railway contracts ; and never hav-
ing been in gaol in that country, it has no reason
for getting square with Transvaal officials. But it
refers to the latest edition (issued only a few
months ago) of the well-known “Dictionary of
Statistics,” published in London by Michael G.
Mulhall, a Fellow of the Royal Statistical
Society, and author of many statistical works,
which have been looked upon for years as standard
authorities. _ He alleges (on page 795) that the
Transvaal railways (practically all owned now by
this alleged swindling co.) were built at an aver-
age cost of £IO,OOO per mile, as compared with
£10,200 per mile in Cape Colony, £10,200 per mile
in Australia, £II,OOO in Canada, £12,900 in the
United States, £57,300 per mile in England—in
fact he alleges that among all the countries in the
world (Australasia being taken as a single coun-
try), the only ones which built their lines more
cheaply than the Transvaal were Sweden, Nor-
way, Chili, and Brazil. And either this great and
long-standing statistical authority is a liar or a
fool—or else the whole vague story about the
Transvaal railway swindle fathered by the obscure
Fitzpatrick (whose imprisonment at Pretoria
gives him at least an understandable motive for not
feeling good towards the Boer authorities), and
circulated by the Age as a reason why Australia
should go Boer-prodding with a glad heart, falls
through. There certainty can’t be room for much
swindle at £23,500 per mile if the whole work of
railway construction costs only £IO,OOO per mile.
And it is notable that Fitzpatrick’s own book
says that the entire capital and borrowings of the
Netherlands Railway Co. are £7,000,000, which,
on its rather over 700 miles of line, pans out rather
under the £IO,OOO per mile of Mulhall.
* * * *
There is nothing in Mulhall about Transvaal
railway rates (which may, either be taken for
granted or viewed in the light of Fitzpatrick’s
inaccuracy on other points), nor about how much
profit per cent, the Transvaal railways screw out
of their unfortunate customers. The Age says (as
a reason for the war) that it is the very high
figure of 12£ per cent. Coghlan, in his “Seven
Colonies ” (1898), says that Cape Colony charges
such high rates that it makes over 10 per cent,
interest on its capital. Natal, a British territory
adjacent to the Transvaal, fleeces its people to
such an extent that its railways produce nearly
per cent, profit. There isn’t much difference
between these figures and those of the hated Boer
next door. And, to come nearer home, there is in
N.S.W. one Victorian-owned private railway (at
the Barrier) which wrings such enormous rates out
of the miserable Cornstalk producer that it is able
to pay dividends of 40 per cent.—it has paid as
much as 50 per cent. —per annum. If Australia is
expected to goad itself into a fury against the
Transvaal over that 12J per cent., N.S.W. has
more than three times as good reason to start by
burning Melbourne on account of the Silverton
Tramway Co.’s exactions.
• * » •
As regards the dynamite monopoly The Bul-
letin has no reliable information, and when it
hasn’t good authority either way it doesn’t argue.
Presumably the figures in this matter are at least
as reliable as Mr. Fitzpatrick’s (or the Age’s)
other figures. But it is noticeable that Australia,
after being urged for months and months to loathe
the Boer because of his ignorance and hatred of
education, is now invited to loathe him still worse
because he spends the liberal sum of £8 6s. Id. per
Boer child annually on education, and because the
amount spent on Outlander children (who, as a
rule, don’t go to Boer State schools) is very much
less. And it is expected to. grow frantic over a
number of alleged jobs which, if true, are bad
enough, though they don’t look very much com-
pared to the Vic. railway land resumptions of a
few years ago, and the N.S.W. Darling Island
purchase. When almost every great Australian
landholder gets the State or the local authority to
pay for roads through his property, the fact that
Kruger got one road made through his looks like
amazing modesty. Did David Syme personally
make the roads on his Lilydale property,- and did
any one expect him to ? And when a Tasmanian
(and partly Victorian) railway syndicate is trying
to sell the Great Western Railway concession at a
profit of something like £BOO,OOO, and after the
great Londonderry mining “cat,” this country is
expected to go out in search of gore, because a
Boer sharper got a railway contract at £9600 per
mile and sub-let it at £7OOO. After the sale of the
great ’Derry “cat” for £650,000 that half-million
fraud looks almost humble. In a land where rail-
way earth-works alone are said to be built at a
swindle of £23,500 per mile, he should have done
better.
« * • •
These remarks are doubtless “disloyal” ; in the
present time of hysteria to disprove any anti-Boer
statement is a crime calling for execution. ‘ ‘ British
fair play” is understood to be turned off at the
meter just at present. But even if the foolish and
frantic Melbourne rag, and all other such rags, br


lieve in the justifiableness of the present war to
the bottom of their souls, the policy of lashing
the Australian people to wilder frenzy and bigger
Contingents on the ground that a Transvaal rail-
way co. grinds out nearly one-third as much per
cent, on its capital as a Victorian one does, looks a
trifle ridiculous. The great art of being an ass is
carefully cultivated just now by a vast proportion
of the Australian people. And some of their
leaders, in their yearning to prove themselves
“loyal” by heaving all manner of charges at
Britain’s opponent, seem in danger of cultivating
the great art of being something much worse than
a mere honest ass.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Night in Victoria’s Upper House.
It is becoming increasingly evident that before
any progressive legislation can be accomplished in
Victoria that province’s House of 48 Rich Land-
lords will have to be summarily reformed—if
possible. Tuesday before last the gathering of
Incapables remained seated from 5 to 10 p.m.,
arid a summary of the intervening hours of alleged
debate is painfully interesting. Proceedings
began by the “man with the jaw” (Embling, of
St. Kilda) demanding of J. M. Davies that the
law should empower the common or honorarium
J.P. to order a flogging on summary conviction.
Then Davies, as Solicitor-General, moved the
second reading of the amending Factories Act.
It rained interjections and sneers and snorts for
the duration of Davies’s address. He finished,
and Nathaniel Levi rose up and ponderously
observed that the legislation was altogether too
experimental. The Government should have
listened to the demand of the Chamber of
Manufactures for an inquiry, that Chamber
being entitled to consideration, as its mem-
bers represented from 12,000 to 15,000 employes
—which is perfectly true, in the sense that
the wolf “ represents ” the lamb he has just swal-
lowed, and the snake “ represents ” the rabbit
whom he temporarily includes. Levi further
maundered about the restriction of trade and the
hampering of all freedom in the carrying on of
“ operations ” —which last is a quite new synonym
for sweating. The wearisome nonentity fur-
ther proposed to leave the whole matter for the
Federal Parliament to deal with, and in return for
this concession, he would be willing to extend the
present Act until June, 1901. Other Fats, includ-
ing Gkimwade, Embling, Sachse, Pratt, and
Winter-leving followed in the same strain, urg-
ing that there had been no demand for any exten-
sion of the Act (apparently a demand needs to be
emphasized with a half-brick before they notice it),
that it was quite monstrous and wicked to handi-
cap employers in this fashion, and that such ex-
perimental legislation should always be viewed
with extreme caution. Also, they complained
about the Bill, which has been before Parliament
for many months, being sprung on them
suddenly, .and their being asked to rush it
through without tremendous consideration
and thought. They were conveniently oblivious of
the fact that they had, a night or two pre-
viously, rushed the second Transvaal Contingent
Bill through in half-an-hour with great enthusiasm.
Having got so far they adjourned the matter for a
week; and, being next invited to consider the
Immigration Restriction Bill (for the second time),
they relieved their feelings by throwing that out
into the gutter in great haste. And these men
imagine they are necessary to the good govern-
ment of the province, and that without them and
their portly dreamings the Constitution would be
a wreck.
♦
An Uprising of the Tail.
There is no blushful modesty about the Provincial
Party in these provinces. That little tattered mob
proposes to send representatives to London to
fight against the Commonwealth Bill, and to
demand in the name of the small minority that
the Bill be either rejected or so altered that the
majority won’t know it again. The plea advanced
is that the Federal majority is to be represented
by a delegate in London, and therefore the anti-
Federal scrap should be there also to explain (what
everybody already knows) that the majority’s
views are not the scrap’s views likewise. One
notable advocate of this theory is John Haynes,
M.L.A. (N.S.W.) —the man who looks at a short
distance like a compressed and untidy duplicate of
Edmund Barton —and it seems a pity that
that short and riotous person doesn’t act
up to his alleged opinions. For by the
same process of logic the minority m his
own electorate (the minority which doesn t elect
John) should have a representative m 1 ariiament
a member who would have no vote and no right
to make speeches on his own account, but who
would sit beside John like a shadow or a badilt,
and assure the House every time he spoke, and at
the end of every one of his sentences, that a strong
minority in John’s electorate repudiated the
sentiments just uttered as if they were a serpent.
If the Parochial Party does send an agent to wring
his hands and cry lamentation on Chamberlain s
door-mat that person will be in a curious situation.
He is to be appointed at a public meeting, but as
the public meeting has no authority from those
electors who voted “No” to appoint any one to
represent them, he can only say that he represents
a nail-full (or quarter full) of people in one city.
The Federal delegates are going to England to do
their best to get the Commonwealth Bill passed
with every line intact just as it was accepted by
the majority in five provinces, so all the opposing
delegation can do is to state that it is opposed to
the passing of the Bill which the majority
accepted, and that it thinks the Tail should pre-
vail over the Dog. Probably the only reply which
a hurried British Minister will have time to make
will be something to the effect that, in many other
highly-respectable and well-conducted asylums,
the same view appears to be quite common. The
average British Minister never fully comprehends
the awful dignity of the separate little provinces
of Australasia. When he looks at the totals, and
sees that the vote for the Bill was 377,614, and
the one against it only 141,499, and that all five
provinces accepted, the fact that one province
accepted by a smaller majority than another will
probably strike him as little as would the. fact
that Cow Flat wasn’t quite so enthusiastic as
Cow Gully, or vice versa. And if he has
patience enough to ask the Tail’s delegation
what it wants instead of the accepted Bill
then there will be chaos. For though the
Tail is unanimously against the present Bill,
it is unanimous on nothing else. Some of it wants
permanent Disunion; some of it wants less repre-
sentation for the small provinces in the Federal
Upper House ; some of it wants more; a section
is only troubled about the rivers, and another is
only against the Interstate Commission, and some
of it wants other things, and some of it wants
whisky. The Parochial Delegation promises to
be the most humorous thing of its kind since the
Victorian Tories, in the glorious old days of
champagne and gout, devised the scheme of send-
ing a nigger newspaper-vendor to England to
speak in its interests in opposition to the Berry
delegation. The fact that the colored gentleman
with the astonishing white hat didn’t go after all,
only proves that there was a gleam of horse-sense
at the back of that old frivolity which appears to
be wanting on the present occasion.
Loyalty and Misappropriation.
The present explosion of loyalty has apparently
undermined the honesty of the Victorian Local
Government system beyond repair, as witness this
circular sent out by Echuca Shire Council to the
other municipal bodies of the province :
Shire Hall, Rochester, 12th January, 1900.
Gentlemen,—l have the honor to bring under your
notice the following resolutions adopted by the Echuca
Shire Council at a special meeting, held 11th January,
1900, viz.: —
1. “That this council donates the sum of £3OO to a
fund to provide the expenses of sending a third contin-
gent of bushmen or other troops to South Africa.”.
2. “ That donations be solicited from all British sub-
jects within the shire for the above purpose.”
3. “ That copies of the foregoing resolutions he for-
warded to all municipal councils of Victoria, soliciting
their immediate co-operation in forming a joint municipal
fund, and that the Mayor of Melbourne be requested
to act as treasurer to such fund.”
My council trusts that you will give the matter your
earnest consideration, with a view of making the effort
worthy of the municipal councils of Victoria.
N.B. —The Minister has promised to indemnify councils
voting their funds for this patriotic purpose.—l have, &e.,
H. T. DOWNE, Shire Secretary.
Also this report of municipal proceedings :
At the Deakin shire council Or. Watson moved, and Or.
Day seconded, “ That in the event of a third Contingent
being sent to South Africa from Victoria to assist the
British in the present war, this council, with the approval
of the Governor in Council and the consent of Parliament,
shall vote out of the municipal fund of the shire the sum
of £250 towards the expenses.” A letter was received
from the Echuca shire council stating that the Govern-
ment had undertaken to indemnify councillors voting
funds for this purpose.
The Bulletin has no desire to speak disrespect-
fully of shire councils and other august bodies.
All it desires to say in this matter is that
the shire funds are supplied by the ratepayers
to be used for certain purposes—roads, bridges,
and other local works, payment of interest
on local debts, salaries and wages of
necessary local officers, and similar definite ob-
jects of local utility specified in the Act. The
councillors are elected by the ratepayers under the
Act, to apply their money as the Act authorises,
and in no other way. When the councillors apply
the ratepayers’ funds to help pay for African wars,
it amounts just as much to misappropriation of
the cash as if a benevolent bank cashier stole the
bank’s money to give it to the local hospital. And
when the Temporary Government promises to
pass a retrospective law holding the councillors
harmless in the matter, it ought logically to add a
clause thereto decreeing that any bank official
who peculated some of the deposits and gave them
to the war fund, should also be held to have done
a perfeetly lawful act. The councillors have an
undoubted right to give their own money
to the war fund—a man may give his own
money to any bad purpose. But when
they come to giving other people’s money—
money entrusted to them for quite a different use
—the war fund becomes very much like a receiver
of stolen property. As for the Government which
promises to authorise the misappropriation, the
only cheerful feature about its share of the busi-
ness is that it may not last long enough to effect
its dishonest purpose, and its successors may, per-
haps, have sufficient moral stamina to repudiate
the whole matter, and make the councillors replace
the missing coin out of their own pockets. For
the honesty and decency of Victoria’s municipal
institutions it is to be sincerely hoped that they
will.
♦ : b
The Truth About Victorian Tobacco.
The Victorian tobacco-growing industry appears
to have got down to a point where it is no longer
worth serious discussion as> a smoking question,
inasmuch as the number of acres under cultivation
is only 78, and the total crop of leaf last season
could barely turn the scale at 1901 b. These
figures are ridiculous in themselves from a national
industry point of view, and they look more absurd
in conjunction with the fact that a Government
expert has been drawing £5OO a year for bossing
the tobacco show, and that some of the 1901 b.
were exported to London, the exporters receiving
a threepenny bonus for the encouragement of their
blessed enterprise. The further fact that the
Govt.’s bonus of 3d. per lb. has always exceeded
the average selling price of Victorian tobacco may
be mentioned in parenthesis, although it has
nothing to do with the question whether the
unfragrant Victorian weed is worth growing for
local manufacture and consumption. Seemingly
there can be no doubt that it is not worth growing,
unless some perfectly new way of growing it is
discovered. The Govt, expert (who has just
resigned) was a hopeless expense all the time;
the bonus on exported leaf was a huge
political delusion, arising out of the success
of the bonused butter industry. Melb. Age,
however, has raised a cry of “departmental
mismanagement,” and figures intended to show
that Victorian tobacco is a great _ possi-
bility have been hurled at a sanguine public. The
public are told that in 1881 the country produced
nearly two million pounds weight of tobacco leaf,
and would have gone on increasing its crop but for
the sudden imposition of an excise duty. Un-
doubtedly the excise tax —one shilling per lb.—
served to kill the business sooner than it would other-
wise have perished, but as a matter of fact it had
to go unless the quality improved. If any one could
find out a way of greatly improving the quality,
the industry would go on and prosper despite the
excuse. Tailing that, it must needs die sooner or
later in any case. The Government has hired a
costly expert to grow good tobacco in Victoria,
and he has failed to make any improvement.
Either he was the wrong kind of expert or the
Victorian soil can’t grow tobacco of the kind that
any respectable white citizen desires to put in his
pipe.
Snakes.
The great dailies on the South African war are
calculated to make one tired. No matter what
happens at the front it all works for the good of
such as publish daily papers. When a few hun-
dred British soldiers, operating in a strange
locality, are cut off and made prisoners, the heavy
organs issue huge placards of blood-red, splashed
over with horrible gouts of black, that shout and
yell at the startled observers “A Grave Situa-
tion,” “The Tide of Disaster,” &c., &c. Then,
when Canada and all the Australian reared up and
between them sent as many men to the war as
Sydney Labor Bureau used to send in one week to
the sand-shifting job, the S. M. Herald spoke, m
deep black tones with the bell-topper of gravity
upon them about “the Empire’s Call to Arms,
and Sydney D.T., drunk with fury, and picking
red lancers off its sleeves, talked about “Stand-
ing by the Empire.” It’s disgusting in its
hysterical Frenchiness. The whole of Greater
Britain and New Britannia (excepting India)
and all the rest of it have not sent
enough men to serve as food for the cannon
in a week’s moderate fighting, and their
actual appreciable difference is that of a bucketful
in the ocean ; and already the Australian dailies
are talking as though we had saved the Empire.
Saved the old man’s life by sending him a pound
of beefsteak for his eye after the Boer had got one
home on it. It is the wild enthusiasm and perki-
ness of the small boy who has got into trousers for
the first time—and when they come back it will be
the exultation of the youth who has fired a gun
for the first time and killed something. The yell
about the Empire’s danger gives an excuse for
much whoop over the loyal Australians who have
“saved” the reeling titan. But, as a matter of
fact, the Empire was never in any danger, and
the “ Grave Situation ” is merely another snake in
this excited country’s boots. Various gentlemen
in long coats and tall hats have said silly things
about the moral effect of the Australian contin-
gents —how they will impress Europe and teach
certain bloated military powers to keep their
military aspirations in their pockets. It looks
much more like a horribly bad advertisement for
the military resources of these provinces. The
big military powers who can heave half-a-million
of men on to any of their frontiers in a fortnight,
must be much impressed with the military un-
readiness of the great self-governing country
which has taken about three months to raise a
force of 3000 men, including camp followers and
cooks and all sorts. They probably reckoned on
a population basis that Australia was able to put
in the field at least 200,000 or 300,000 men, but
when it takes such a time to get such a handful
together, it looks as though we had practically no
military organisation. And we haven’t.
+
“ Paunch ” on Turner.
Melbourne Paunch writes George Turner’s
political obituary:
Statesmanship is practically unknown in the Assembly.
George Turner, who is apparently the best available man,
is nothing of a statesman. His best achievement during
his term of office, and the one upon which he prides him-
self most—the putting in order of the national finances
after the boom collapse—was not accomplished by any
show of the genius of statecraft, but by a somewhat
miserable and narrow policy of cheeseparing frugality.
He simply cut and saved, and was enabled in due time to
show a surplus in place of the customary deficit. This is
not statesmanship ; it is merely the commonplace tactics
of the politician. He worked hard, and receives much
credit for perspiring coatless over his papers in the dog
days. This, again, is only the policy of the conscientious
politician. The statesman does his best when he sets
others working, and sees that their work is excel-
lent and on generous lines. The Turner policy
squared the ledger, but at what expense ? It
resulted in an enormous loss of population to the country.
The statesman would not save as the ordinary acquisitive
housewife does, but would have put the country on its
legs by a brave policy of development. He would have
saved Where saving entailed no risk of stagnation, and
would have spent liberally where expenditure meant
staying and strengthening the country ; but we have no
statesmen left, and the times and the manners do not
seem favorable to their growth.
This is the reception which a decently-honest
politician always gets in Australia. Every paper
says, in a perfunctory sort of way, that excessive
borrowing is bad and should be put down. And
when the very rare honest politician asks for more
taxation so that he may reduce borrowing, he is
told with a ;shriek of horror that this alleged
.great, rich and lightly-taxed country can’t stand
vany more burdens. And then he is cursed for
not having a fine, large, broad policy of
development which means a fine, large
-broad policy of shovelling out money. Melbourne
' Paunch howled for years at Turner for not having
a fine, large, broad, statesmanlike policy—though
it' never defined that policy, for the sufficient
reason that it never had the faintest idea what it
meant, unless it was a return to the Gillies
system of huge loans and huge booms. Every
Premier is told, in the papers, that lie should
economise, and when he does it he is called a
cheeseparer and a small shopkeeper. Also, wher-
ever he economises he is told that he is economising
in the wrong place and showing himself a narrow-
minded pedlar. After all, Australia gets about as
good politicians as it deserves —winch is saying a
great deal.
Waxellenoy John Madden’s appeal to Vic-
torians for a “Bushmen’s Corps ” subscription is a
warm, flattering sermon with some truth and much
nonsense in it. Says the dapper barracker
We can easily understand what a hopeless, impossible
business this South African country must appear to a
cavalryman trained in a settled country like England, so
ar as keeping touch with a wily foe familiar with all its
leatures is concerned. To our stockmen —cool-headed,
self-contained men of the woods and plains, prepared to
set off for a three or four days’ ride, with no encumbrance
that their easy, roomy saddles will not carry —
to whom it has been an instinct from their childhood to
muster up war rivals, to dodge “ duffers,” and many times
a year to gather in from vast pathless and untrodden
woods and forests and mountains herds as wild as savage
animals, it would be an easy 'piece of business to round up
big bodies of Boers.
The superiority of the resourceful Australian bush-
man over the mechanical horse-soldier for purposes
of scouting and guerilla warfare is probable enough.
For that matter any mounted adventurer
who has had only a little up-country experience
knows enough to give many points to a dragoon or
hussar person on the Boer-track. But Madden’s
wisdom seems to terminate at the suggestion that
a Bushmen Corps would be a boon to the British
army in South Africa. When he talks about
woods and forests and “ rounding up ” Boers as
though they were wild cattle Madden is a dan-
gerous delusive enthusiast. There are no forests in
the South African war case, neither does the Boer
go browsing around without a rifle. Moreover the
Boer shoots villainously straight as a rule, and is
himself a remarkable adept at rounding-up the
enemy when he isn’t employed in forming an un-
cattlelike ambuscade. As a boon for the Imperial
Forces, a Bushmen Corps mustn’t expect to go
quite as far as the full limit of John Madden’s
imagination. It happened that on the day when
his Waxellency’s appeal was published, there
came the news of how 16 smart and wary Aus-
tralian troopers fell unexpectedly among Boers
who were waiting to be “rounded-up.” Some of
them, alas ! fell dead, or wounded ; two of them
got away, which was probably better than British
cavalrymen would have done under the circum-
stances, and the others were rounded-up them-
selves.
Seeing tlie Contingent Off.
[Fob Tub Bulletin.]
At 2.15, or thereabout, the writer made one of a
mighty mob in the glaring sun and hurtling dust
that awaited the emergence of the pageant from
the Paddington Barracks. The heat was intense.
Trams rumbled and ’buses rattled to and from the
city. Crowds of noisy hoodlums in coster carts
blundered through the packed multitude. Cabs
plied eagerly for fares. Anofficerpersonina bottle-
green uniform backed his charger remorselessly into
groups of women and children. Men smoked and
swore and spat and sweltered in the sun. At last,
a small urchin on a cross-arm of a lamp-post
yelped, with reckless disregard of truth, ’Ere
they come 1 ” There was a mighty surge forward.
The galvanized roofs of over-pathway shops
groaned with an extra pressure of heavy-booted
umans, and the Austral-British person rasped a
dusty cheer. It was a false alarm; but it gave the
officer in bottle-green an opportunity of riding
down a boy or two. The mob fell back with sun-
scorched impatience, and the domain dosser who
had adventured from his lair swore several
vehement prayers at the toe of his broken boot. _
Eventually, the helmets of some mounted police
loomed in the gate archway. They always employ
mounted police for gubernatorial functions in
sunny New South Wales. It keeps up the tradi-
tion of its past, when His Excellency was. the
province’s chief gaoler. Forth came the “bobbies,”
white and blue and black, shiny and neat as a
French-folded serviette. They were, followed by
the bottle-green men of the Australian Horse.
Next came the Governor’s barouche, with his
Excellent Nibs in the uniform of honorary colonel
of that regiment. And well he looked as holiday
soldier. His more business-looking aide wore the
blastiferous bearskin of the Grenadiers. The cor-
tege was brought up by the rear escort of the
bottle-green troopers—and then followed sixteen
bars rest. More heat, more dust, more profanity,
more smoking and spitting and sweating, more
trams, ’buses, carts, cabs, and ribaldry of coster
hoodlums. A woman fainted, and was thought-
fully carried by her friends into the chemist shop
of the ill-conditioned —a close-by “ pub.”
The boy on the cross-arm of the lamp-post again
yelped, “’Ere they are!” But no one paid
attention. They had been “ had.” But they were
there this time. A large policeman, with an
important grey moustache, bustled about the
crowd and besought people to stand back “like a
good chap.” There are some decent “bobbies”!
The officer person in bottle-green was equinely
offensive, and one girl publicly thanked God that
she didn’t wear nines in boots !
• • * •
Police troopers headed the procession. Then
came the Lancer half-squadron with fluttering
pennons, and some confoundedly hunched-up,
slouchy horsemen. The Lancers’ band, on the
white horses that gave away an old-time acquaint-
ance with a bankrupt circus, followed. Next the
Contingent—the Mounted Infantry unit leading
the van, succeeded in order by the Australian
Horse squadron, the Army Medical Corps, the
Nurses, a Cape-bound detachment of Lancers, the
Premier and the Cow-shaking Ministry, Colonel
French and his staff, more band, and the Queens-
land Contingent. There was a deal of military
rabble after this, which doesn’t signify; for it
didn’t go away to bleed for its what d’ye-call-it,
and eat half-pound tins of Queen-donated choco-
late.
What were the men of the Contingent honestly
like ? Well, there is precious little good specialis-
ing. They were pretty well alike —deuced unsol-
dierly. There were some fine, smart, well-set-up,
military-looking men among them, of course.
These were Boys of the Old Brigade. They had
seen service. Some of them wore one, two, and
three medal-ribbons apiece. They marched well,
and held their heads erect. Then a practised eye
could pick out the erstwhile policeman or Jack
Tar, neither of whom shaped badly in khaki and
putties. But there we e a lot of slouchers in the
ranks; a few grizzled old fellows of apparent
toughness; many mere boys, immature and already
fagged with their light camp-training. Some tall
young men were loose-hung in the limbs, flat-
chested and round-shouldered. Others, at the
hour of setting forth, shambled along bear fashion,
already overcome with the heat and the weight of
their accoutrements. A few were evidently under
“ the influence.” Taking it all round the pageant
walked in every way under the sun.
• • » •
People swarmed, like ants, everywhere: on
verandahs, up lamp-posts, in carts, on ’bus-tops,
in the branches of trees, in the openings of win-
dows, on the very roofs of the houses along the
line of march. Shouts, cheers, hoarse and dust-
strangled, throttled the martial strains of the
bands. Greetings, brutal and cheerful, and gory
and assorted, were flung at the passing troops.
One little ghoul shouted with glee in his baby-
yelp, like a wolf-cub eager for gore, “ Go it, boys!
Slaughter old Kruger. Give’em steel!”: There
was humor, too, in the comments of the crowd.
“There goes Billy So-and-so; I’ll never see that
five bob again I lent him !” “Look, mother,
there’s our milk-boy in a mustard helmet! ” Pass
then a few men of the Australian Horse, in their
freen tunics and breeches. A stout lady from
Iriu, with enthusiasm, said, “God bless
Ode to the Fat Man.
They sing of the pride of battle,
They sing of the Dogs of War,
Of the men that are slain like cattle
On African soil afar.
They sing of the gallant legions
A-bearm’ the battle’s brunt
Out in them torrid regions
A-fightin’ the foe in front.
They sing of Mauser and Maxim
And their doin’s across the foam,
But I hear none sing of the Fat Man
Who sits at his ease at home
Contrivin’ another measure
For scoopin’ a lump o’ tin,
New coffers to hoard the treasure
That his brothers’ blood sweeps in.
Chockfull o’ zeal for speedin’
The sword of his Queen’s behest,
But other men’s legs to bear it
Is the notion that suits him best.
Nothin’ he knows of fightin’,
He never was built that way;
But the game of War is excitin’
When the stake’s worth more than the play.
An’ a fat little time is cornin’,
When the turmoil has settled down,
An’ the Dogs of War are silent,
And the veldt is bare an’ brown ;
When the sun has licked the blood up
An’ the brown earth hid the bones,
His miners will go out seekin’
For gold and precious stones.
Like a ghoul from the reekin’ shambles
He grubs out his filthy pelf,
Reapin’ a cussed harvest
Where he dursn’t have sown himself.
Now, this is one man-’s opinion,
An’ I think it is fair an’ right:
If he wants the land of the Dutchman
Let him go like a man an’ fight.
If the African mines have treasure,
An’ the Fat Man wants a bone,
Let him go by himself an’ find it,
Let him trek for the Front alone.
MAGNET.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1899.
ASSETS
Increase in Assets during 1898 ... ...
SURPLUS amounts to
Increase in Surplus during 1898
ASSURANCE IN FORCE
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during IS9B
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MOAT, M.L.C.;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
£53,826,927
4,477,706
11,918,852
1,409,857
205,657,736
7,498,187
Fowler s Traction Engines
m
Portables, Locos, Road Rollers, &c.,
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
SPECIAL COLONIAL TYPES.
STEAM CULTIVATING
MACHINERY.
Illustrated Catalogues : Post Free..
Soto. A <truts :
73 Clarence-street, Sydney;
AND
Clyde Works, Granville.
The “ Thistle ” Oil Engine.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T ?
the Irish! Many’s the bould bhoy the
English have murthered, and now, God
save and bless ’em, they’re goin’ to fight tlie
battles for the Queen!” And tlie panting,
struggling, sweating soldiery shambled past with
<i shouted salutation to a face caug’ht in tho crowd
with the tail of the eye, and an occasional ejacula-
tion, “My Christ ! It’s hot ! ” with other trim-
mings. All the time the blare of brass, and inter-
minable “Say, Außevoir,” “ The Soldiers of tho
Queen,” “The Sons of the Sea,” “Tommy
Atkins,” and other strains of music-lialldom.
Strings of dirty bunting lined tlie route—the
wretchedest display imaginable. Bottles of Ixier
were consumed in the ranks, and fresh bottles,
flasks of spirits, and cigars were handed to the
“boys” by friends in the crowd’.
By the time the Post Office was reached the
procession had become a rout. Women joined the
men in the marching column. Some favored sons
of Mars had two, three, and four girls hanging
on their arms, and to the “D.’s” in their
shoulder-belts. Flowers were blooming from
rifle-muzzles, and were stuck into helmets. Wives
and sweethearts and babies were escorted along by
the departing warriors—also, fourpenny Lizzies,
with last year’s beer stains discoloring their
bodices. Civilians tramped cheek by jowl with
the 1 lops—some supporting the already overcome
heroes, some plying their mates with hop beer,
some carrying the men’s rifles. Altogether a
scene of Pandemonic confusion.
The Queensland troops were great favorites.
When the bold Bananalanders had readied tlie
Bacchanal stage of the procession, they began
seizing and kissing everv pretty girl near enough
to clutch. And so the throng rushed down to the
place of embarkation. The march began decently,
but in its latter moments it wits just as orderly as
the downhill rush of the Gadarene swine, and the
evil spirit of Hot Beer was in it, and it knew not
where it went, or why.
CATO.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SnOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her, Majesty’s “ Little Red Riding llocd.”
Royal “ Tess of the B’Urliervilles.”
Lyceum “ The Power and the Glory."
Criterion Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Little Christopher Columbus.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Town Hall. Maud MaeCarthy Ooncert(Jan. 30)
The nice girl-soldiers at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) still wage unsanguinary war against the
Volf-Boers in the bright yellow fortress; tho
tallest and handsomest of the nice girls being put
in the New Soutli Wales Lancers—possibly to
indicate that the Cornstalk country is holding up
the biggest end of the campaign. Every theatrical
manager has an impression that this groat country
will stand any amount of cracking up, which is a
mistake —it will stand only a certain amount.
The Australian knows quite well that he is twice
as good as a Britisher, but when he is told that he
is three times as good lie perceives it is an
exaggeration. The coin which spins round the
pale slippers of Dorothy Vane comes down in a
rather unenthusiastic torrent now as if it knew it
had to come, but didn’t want any fuss made about
it. A modern Pantomime is one of the most
mentally confusing sights in creation ; it ought to
be done in private like an execution. It tries to
be a great many things, and among them all it
succeeds in being nothing at all except a very large
picture. It has strayed far from the right path,
but some day it will return like the Prodigal Son,
clothed and in its right mind (if it wasn’t the
Prodigal Son who was referred to as clothed it is of
no importance). Tlie heavy work done by quite
small children and the abolishment of the clown
and pantaloon are features of the modern Panto-
mime. Once the Pantomime was a place where
children went to be amused by grown people ; now
it is a place where grown people go to be enter-
tained by children.
** * *
“Tess of the D’Urbervilles ” is described
by the local authorities as not so grimy as was
expected. This scribe found it grimier, because
she had not expected it to lie as grimy as she
expected it to be. Which is to say, that when a
novel like “Tess” is put on a nice, clean stage,
all the alluviai deposit is generally washed off it,
and it is made utterly false and unreal ; whereas,
in this ease, only half the moral loam is so dis-
posed of, and realism isn't wholly sacrificed. The
early century agricultural laborers who slouch on
to the hay-strewn boards are not as dirty and
disreputable as they were in real life, because the
shock would be too much. Similarly the dialect
isn’t as much so as in real life, because, if it were,
it might as well be gibberish or monkey. But
what realism has beon preserved gives tone to the
play. It is Art, and Art isn’t necessarily the same
thing as soap. The unbathod and unbuttoned
look of Linda Raymond, and her slab of black hair,
and draggling skirts, and dreadful I louts are as re-
freshing to the tired theatre-goer as the same thing
in real life is dispiriting ; and the only objection
to her is her weird habit of salaaming with
outspread fingers when she kneels before
Tess in the last act. Tess herself continues
to bo the same spotless heroine as be-
fore. There is too little of the peasant about
lier. She doesn’t impress you as ever having been
the little girl who went about with “ her hair in
pothooks and ladderlike holes at the knees.” If
the result of having a past is f o make a girl talk
and think hotter (and doesn’t Hardy hint as
much ?) then it is a dangerous moral to put before
any country. The tragedy of Teas consists in the
fact that Angel Clare in critical moments of her
life always manages to be too late. In the first
instance he is just three years too late in becoming
acquainted with Tess at all. Haring decided to
forgive her for liis own want of punctuality, he
contrives to delay said forgiveness just a month
or so too long, and Tess lias gone off the
straight once more. He is so impressed by
this that lie resolves to be only a little late next
time; consequently but a few minutes elapse
between his departure and re-appearance. Never-
theless which is just his luck—Tess has contrived
to put an effectual barrier between them even in
this timo, and Angel is too late again. It is a
solemn lesson on the evils of unpunctuality, and
the rising generation ought to be taken to “ Tess”
in shoals. There is a rumor that “Trilby” will
be revived after “Tess.” “ Trilby ”is a piny that
took the heart of this great country by storm some
years ago, partly because the chief lady wandered
alxnit in bare feet. A larger quantity of bare feet,
with some ankle thrown in, will be necessary this
time. Feet are like laudanum. As you get used
to them the dose must be increased.
** * *
“ The Bells ” have stopped ringing at
Sydney Criterion, and when next unpacked their
jangle will sound in the large serious ears of
Maoriland that blessed province where the
Female Franchise and tlie Early Closing Bill and
other legislative trifles at present agitating Aus-
tralia are now ancient history. “Tlie Bolls” is a
clever play, and the nightmare is a good sort of
nightmare, but the days of the drama with the
horrid dream in it are generally short nowadays.
Life is pretty nearly all a horrid dream just now,
for various reasons.
** * *
“The Power and the Glory” still holds
out at tlie Lyceum, and the blind child continues
to direct love-scenes from her deathbed within a
minute or so of her ascent among the angels. This
youthful actress is just at the awkward age when
she is too old to win commendation for the mere
fact that she is able to toddle on the stage and say
something, and yet much too young to be judged
as an adult. Nevertheless, she contrives to invest
the wooden character of the stage blind child with
a little saving humor, and deserves a better fate
than to be afterwards found tottering on a cloud
late at night.
** * *
On Saturday night a large crowd surged
into the Criterion to greet the Kickards co. on its
opening. When the purple curtain vanished aloft
(the advertisement horror was not in evidence),
the packed house saw a far-off range of hills
covered with dull blue shadows, their bases draped
in twilight. In the valley beneath, terraces of sky-
scraping houses with long, sharp gables and gleam-
ing windows. Upwards from them the landscape
swells to a little leafy clearing on the ridge. Alto-
gether, it is a pretty scene. Unfortunately the
freshness is somewhat marred by Irving Sayles
introducing a very stale joke of his, which he has
carried round so long that some night it will break
with a loud hiss. When little Fanny Powers
has finished her turn the dark “Komic King”
rises to his feet and makes a horrid row
to the effect that he wants the infant called back
to present her with a pound. And Mr. Lobengula
Pope is understood to allege that he hasn’t the
price of a pound of chops. On Saturday night,
Miss Noni Kickards made her first appearance on
the vaudeville stage, and sang softly of the youth
who went away to shoot Boers because “ Some-
body has to go to the Front.” And when she sang
of how his spirit stayed there to keep ghostly
watch over tlie land he helped to prig, the
Tivolians took it kindly, and sundry baskets of
flowers were passed up, and Miss Noni came out
several times and sang some more. Harry
Rickards treated himself to a reappearance with
his hair plastered down on each side of liis face
nice and shiny. When he smiled, it looked
like the spirit of Johannesburg perishing
amidst a desert of white shirt-front. He
sang about things that happen in the
pale moonlight. Then he reappeared and repaid
liis gorgeous welcome by inflicting on the audience
a wearisome old chestnut about An Absent-
minded Beg-GAR. The little Smith Sisters and
Baby Powers gathered the collection into Harry’s
straw cady. The cady is large and deep, and it
was full of filthy lucre, which Rickards is
giving to the Bushmen’s Contingent - fund.
A weird - looking figure billed as Tod Callo-
way got some recalls. The Newsky family
seems to be pulling the public leg. No matter
whether the 'Newskys appear as Russian pea-
sants, Cossack notables, or Moscow dignitaries
they always wear the same red boots, and tlie
Czar of the co. has his covered with gilt filigree.
And though red boots may be worn exclusively and
indiscriminately in Russia, it would not be a bad
idea to introduce some blue ones with silver fili-
gree work : variety is always charming. Still, the
Newsky song about -ski covers a multitude of
small sins like that.
** * #
A melancholy addition to the brief list of
Melbourne shows was made by the Vic. Artists’
Society last week, at its white elephantine gallery
in Albert-street. The present annual exhibition
includes 130 paintings in oil and water colors,
some of the works being ancient acquaintances
which can offer no particular excuse for their reap-
pearance. They came, and were seen of yore, and
they didn’t conquer* and now they are found
hanging around the same old place merely to keep
the walls warm. Next year the proportion of
young untried pictures will probably be much
smaller, and then it may be advisable to bill the
show as the V. A.S. Exhibition of Hardy Annuals.
The members of the Council have done no good
thus far by taking their Society seriously, so they
might as well try the effect of this poor little joke,
in conjunction with a brass band and a Punch-and-
Judy. There are more ways than one of attracting
the public to an art gallery.
* * » *
The striking pictures (among those now
exhibited for the first, or nearly the first, time)
are too few to be worth detailing. Arthur Boyd,
A. H. Fullwood, Walter Withers, and two or
three other honest workers, are the names signed
to the best of them. About 50 percent, of tho
balance were sent in by ladies, whose productions
range from clever to shocking, but inasmuch us
the shockingost lady artist is quite likely to bo the
nicest girl for domestic purposes, all their sins are
herewith lumped together and forgiven. Talking
of sins, the V.A.S.’s annual display introduces a
Persian Prayer Carpet, which came from the
East, via a Melbourne drapery shop, to lie rattled
for at one guinea per ticket. Having gone the
round of the Exhibition, one is at liberty to kneel
upon the prayer carpet and say Grace, or some-
thing.
#* * *
Melbourne’s two surviving theatres con-
tinue to divide the spoil. “Little Christopher,”
at the Koval, is now m her fifth week, and the end
of Silas and Mi’s. Block, and O‘Hooligan, and
Miss Guinevere, likewise the various male imper-
sonators who sometimes disguise themselves in
their true sex, and vice versa, seems to be afar off.
The performance could be improved by a ten
minutes curtailment of the first act, and a new
joke or two in the second act; but, seeing that
the house gets pretty well crowded every night,
this suggestion is probably uncalled for. The
“Little Christopher” matinee trill be given on
Friday this week.
#* * *
At the Bijou the departure of three plump
Maearte Sisters is mourned in moderation. Tom
Costello tells how he met his own original doom
before the altar of Trinity Church ; also, he fights
for “Motherland,” but the patriotism of Thomas
seems less real than the sorrow of the doom-
meeter. Spry and Austin frivol as before, and
the cardboard cow with a crumpled horn is milked
from a syphon every evening. And the gloomy
ballad of the Absent Minded Beggar goes rolling
on, encouraged by the nimble shilling, the
cautious sixpence and the threepenny which was
intended by Providence for a church-collection
next Sunday. About £7O altogether had been
thrown upon the Bijou stage up to time of
writing, mostly for the sake of Tommy Atkins
and partly for the sake of throwing it. In not a
few cases the Beggar’s Fund has benefited by the
violent donation of some young blackguard or
other who was simply aiming his bits of silver at
the Itickards Company with a possible view to
blackening its eye.
* at * *
On Thursday (30th), a farewell concert to
Maud MaeCarthy trill happen at Melb. Town
Hall, and on this occasion the city trill be ex-
pected to make amends for its previous coldness.
Maud MaeCarthy is already a wonderful violinist,
in all ways but one. People who lost their heads
over a mediocre performer like Kruse, and were
“carried away” by the comparatively weak
fiddling of Jakoff Hambourg, ought not to find
any difficulty in raising a profound admiration for
the young Australian Neruda. Meanwhile, they
must make up their minds to hear Miss Maud
before she goes where glory waits her.
** * #
The Melb. Alexandra opens on Friday for
a season of two consecutive nights, beginning and
ending with “Shamus O’Brien” on a scale of
fleeting splendor.
Captain Heinsworth, a British ex-cavalry
officer who has seen much active service, is, The
Bulletin is informed, at present slowly dying of
cancer which developed in an old sabre-cut; and,
as the unfortunate gentleman is also penniless
and helpless, something of the present “patriotic”
fervor might well be diverted towards the relieving
of the old soldier’s necessities. The address is c/o
Mrs. Josephs, 45 Argyle-street, city.
The late A. G. Taylor, of Mudgee
(N.S.W.), in addition to possessing many tine per-
sonal qualities, was a clever journalist, and a fine
orator, and a political Ishmaelite. As a destruc-
tive critic he had few rivals, but in a constructive
sense he was wholly wanting. Possibly he would
have developed the constructive faculty in course
of time, but his career was unfortunately cut short.
It is so much easier to be brilliant in showing that
some old institution requires to bo destroyed with
an axe, root and branch, than in patiently ex-
plaining the details of the new institution which
should be built up in itsstead, that destructionists
are to constructive men as ten to one. Yet the
patient, dull, and often bald-headed and uninter-
esting little man who can explain what really
ought to be done is worth a thousand long-haired
geniuses who can tell in burning language that
something ought to be hit on the head and utterly
demolished, and somebody should put something
in its place.
Hysterical N.S.W. War - Minister See,
apropos “disloyal” civil servants: “Every man
who lives on Queen Victoria’s money ought to be
a loyal subject of Queen Victoria.” But Queen
Victoria never had any money not raised from the
British taxpayers. N.S.W. civil servants don’t
live on Queen Victoria’s money ; they live on Aus-
tralia’s money—money raised from N.S.W. tax-
payers, or money borrowed on N.S.W. taxpayers’
credit. Queen Victoria doesn’t pay one of them a
single copper; she never did. Every man who
lives on Australia’s money ought to be a loyal
subject of Australia, and oppose the squandering
of Australian resources in a disgraceful foreign
war. The public servant who lives on Queen
Victoria’s money certainly should be loyal to
Queen Victoria, and the public servant who lives
on England’s money should be loyal to England.
But as there is no such man in the N.S.W. Public
Service—well, what kind of an exhibition is
Minister See making of himself? And isn’t
“loyalty” rather undermining the intelligence of
the Cow-Shaking Ministry ?
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Westralia’s Loan Bill this year is for a compara-
tive trifle of £7SO,(XX). Comparing this with the fearsome
I.oan JJill just passed by Queensland, it looks as if the
latter province was goinj; u> take the place so lon»- occu-
pied by Westrnlia as the boss loan spendthrift of Aus-
tralasia. It must be admitted, too, that in one respect
John Forrest’s Government, despite its enormously lavish
scattering of borrowed money, and its bad use thereof
has been a trifle more respectable than some. For in-
stance, in the seven years 1891-97 it spent £5,268 307 of
borrowed funds, but of this £4,050,356 was for"railways
ami telegraphs—both distinctly reproductive works The
fact that nearly one-fourth of the money was spent on
non-productive works which should have been charged to
revenue is awful enough. Still, in N.S.W. and Tasmania
things are worse than that.
* » * *
Plainly the Victorian Government trill shortly
have to find some new way of raising funds for its Slate
Land Bank to lend out on mortgage. In 1599 the Hank
borrowed £235,450, of which llie public subscribed only
£22,150, and the Savings Bank supplied the oilier
£213,300. Up to now the State Land Bank has sold
£918,925 of bonds, the puhlic taking £164,200, and the
Savings Bank buying £754,725. The Savings Bank can't
fill itself up with these not-immediately-realisable securi-
ties indefinitely. The explanation seems to be that 3 per
cent, is too little interest. At 3j per cent, the scheme
would probably work well enough. It is the old trouble.
Barring one infinitesimally Small 3 per cent, loan of
£50,000 which sold at par, Victoria has never got an
English loan at less than £3 7s. 4d. per cent., with
management expenses and cost of remitting interest
added ; yet when it floats a loan locally it demands that
the Australian investor, being an inferior animal, shall
be content with 3 per cent. And he isn’t. Why should
he be ?
* * * *
There is a common delusion that all loan ex-
penditure on railways is reproductive, also that only new
rolling-stock is charged to loans and when it wears out it
is replaced out of earnings. Those who imagine this
don’t know the full glories of the great loan fraud. Vic-
toria has spent in all £1,956,212 of borrowed money on the
purchase of railway locomotives, and all the locomotives
it now possesses are only worth £1,322,900.
* * * *
Waddell, M.L.A., lately appointed a trustee of
N.S.W. Savings Bank (without salary), is working hard to
extend the scope of the hank’s operations with a view to
lending money to fanners and'graziers at a lower interest
than private banks charge. But what is the matter with
the long-deferred State Bank '? That would do, under
safe conditions and expert advice, what Waddell wants to
do under certain disadvantages.
• • » »
Vic. news agents licensed to sell stamps are
appealing ,to Postmaster-General Watt for a reasonable
commission on the business. The com. at present allowed
is only 4d. in the £, and the vendor at this rate may have
to serve two or three or four hundred customers in the
course of earning eighteen-pence. Inasmuch as the
average purchaser of a halfpenny stamp is very apt to
want change for a shilling and seldom wants anything
else from stock, the demand fox a relaxation of the late
Government’s retrenchment policy in this matter seems
fair enough. All the other Australian Governments are
kinder than 4d. in the £ to their stamp agents.
* * * *
Even now, it would seem Mount Deddick isn’t
so dead as it ought to be. A syndicate, it is alleged,
wants permission to build a railway from Cunninghams,
the windy little town on the Gippsiand Lakes, to Beddick
at a cost of £375,009, and asks for a grant of 500 acres of
supposedly mineral land at the Mount. But Victoria has
no privately-owned railways now, and it would lie a pity
to introduce the lamentable system. Moreover, the
general recent experience is that the privateshindykil be-
gins its railway without money, and breaks down about
10 miles from its starting place, and howls for State aid.
And if lonesome Tamlio and Croajingolong and Ite-
nambra. and the men up the Snowy lliver had come to re-
gard the line as a certainty, and then saw it slipping
away, they would doubtless back up the co.'s demand for
aid, and the Government, rather than lose the vote of
East Gippsiand, would probably give it, and, quite possi-
bly, in the end the State would have an unpayable Beddick
line on its hands at a higher price than if it hod built the
thing itself outright.
• * • •
The balance-sheet of the Bank of Victoria
appears in the advertising columns of the present issue,
and will be reviewed in this page next week.
* * * *
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
also takes a hand in the general improvement of things
financial, its profits for the half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1899, being £45,251. This is the best record since the
end of 1893, and the dividend is raised from Bto 9 per
cent. The following are some recent figures :
Profit. Dividend.
December, 1894 .. £36,599 8 per cent. £36,498
June, 1895 .. .. 38,037 „ 37.934
December, 1595 .. 39,474 „ 89,227
June, 1896 .. .. 40,303 „ 89,965
December, 1896 .. 40,007 „ 40,000
June. 1897 .. .. 40,119 „ 40,000
December, 1897 .. 40,150 „ 40,000
June, 189 S .. .. 40,410 „ 40,000
December, 1898 .. 40,864 ~ 40,000
June, 189!) .. .. 42,339 „ 40,000
December, 1899 .. 45,251. 9 per cent. 45,000
The increase of dividend 1 eaves only a very small balance
of £251, hut the Commercial of Sydney, with its splendid
reserve of £1,010,000, hardly requires to further strengthen
its position in this respect. Said balance, with £19,021
brought forward, makes the undivided profit £19,272.
The half-year’s earnings are at the rate of £4 l()s. Id. per
cent, per annum on the shareholders’ funds (capital,
£1,000,000 ; reserve fund, £1,010,000), a great improve-
ment on the £4 4s. 3d. per cent, earned for the six months
to 30/6/'99.


A. E. (SOLPSTEIN,
(c/o S. lIOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in tlie Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLT.NER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
n
S«4
i)v
k
m
Smoke
FOR GENTLEMEN
OF TASTE.
Wholesale Agents-M. RUTTY & GO.,—Sydney.
Oliver Cambridge, the young, long-haired
and purely local Australian, whose fearsome tales
of travel, and tendency (on paper) to be knouted
in Russian dungeons and to seize the raging lion
by the bail in Africa, earned him a passing noto-
riety, was last heard of as having a bullet m him
at dtahuhu (Maoriland). Bainbridge’s statement
is that he was mooning along the road in that land
of profound peace, looking at the scenery with a
loaded revolver in his hand —which is eminently
probable, for Bainbridge always seemed the sort of
youth who would arm himself with a Winchester
rifle before tackling the bloodthirsty and revengeful
porridge at breakfast. Then he fell over some-
thing, and the revolver went off.
C. J. Moran, M.L.A. for East Coolgardie
(Westralia), is not intensely popular with his con-
stituents, and quite a number of them recentlj
signed a requisition to him -in the following
terms: —
We, the undersigned, electors of the East Coolgardiegold-
fields, in view of the generous offer made by Mr. Conolly,
M.L.A., to join the Australian contingent in the Trans-
vaal, hereby respectfully request that you, as our repre-
sentative, will do likewise. We firmly believe that a
knowledge of your valor and our sincere wish would war-
rant English officers sending you early to the front of
battle; and assure you that during your absence from
legislative duties our interests will in nowise be adversely
affected. The favor herein solicited is the only one we,
your constituents, are likely ever to ask, and should you
grant the boon your return will be watched with un-
speakable anxiety.—Yours hopefully.
“ Yours hopefully ” has a cheerless and invidious,
sound under the circumstances.
Daily Telegraph item re the Cow-Shak-
ing Government of N.S.W. :
The Minister for Public Instruction does not intend to
allow public school-teachers to indulge publicly in disloyal
rhetoric. He has had reports of several school-teachers
who, not satisfied with receiving Government pay and
having a secure Government billet, have openly ex-
pressed sentiments disloyal to the Power that provides
their incomes. This sort of thing, says Mr. Perry, can’t
be tolerated. Only one case, however, is clear enough for
investigation. He has ordered an iniquiry to be made.
Now if Perry refers to Britain as the Power which
provides the teachers’ incomes, that foolish little
man ought to be reminded that the said Power
doesn’t provide a single copper of the money—it
all comes from the N.S.W. taxpayer. And if he
is talking of N.S.W. as a Power, he doesn’t know
a Power when he sees one.
SLIMES!!
ONLY
Successful
Treatment
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co., London.
All particulars on application to
Ny. Markwald
11 Pitt Street,
Sydney
178 William Street, Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
“ Gibraltar Con. Gold Mines, Ltd., Adelong,
N.S.W., Oct., 12, ’99. Referring to your favor re the Bil-
lett’s Patent Tuyere I have pleasure in informing you
that the five we have in use here have given unqualified
satisfaction. We have two blacksmith’s forges and three
drill-sharpener’s forges fitted with these Tuyeres, and
after a trial extending over some months we find that
they effect a saving in coal of fully 30 per cent. Since the
introduction of the Patent Tuyeres our men can sharpen
25 per cent, more drills than with the old style. They
work equally well with either bellows or compressed air,
and I can recommend them most highly for any class of
work. (Signed) S. W. Vale, Chief Engineer.” Write to
W. Dewhirst, Broughton Lane, Sydney, for particular?
and list of agents.*
In other ways, too, the huge Commercial Bank
Go. continues growing. Note-circulation (£470,107) is
£/2’ooo more than it was six months ago. Deposits
mnlS™ are more. Cash and liquid securities
(£4.989,0*/, or nearly 4i |> er cen t. of all liabilities to the
public) are £638,000 more. These are huge increases, and
the reserve of cash and securities is very strong indeed.
The Commercial of Sydney holds £1,333,731 in State
securities alone. Taken all round, its position is remark-
ably solid, and seems to grow steadily better.
* * * * 1
The profits of the Ballarat Banking Co. (Ba,
larat, 4 ietoria) for the half year just closed are £2991"
which hardly maintains the increase shown at 30th Junei
1599. Figures since 1894, are as follows :
December, 1594 ..£3710 December, 1597 ..£2637
June, 1895.. .. 3+49 June, 1893.. .. 2755
December, 1595 .. 3463 Decemher, IS9B .. 2906
June, 1896.. .. 3250 June. 1899.. .. 3022
December, 1896 .. 2936 Decemher, 1899 .. 2991
June, 1897 .. .. 2SBI
Earnings are at the rate of £4 ss. sd. per cent, per annum
(on shareholders’ capital, £85,000, and reserve fund,
£55,000 —£140,000), which is not quite up to pre-
vious half-year’s figures, yet well up to the average. A
dividend at 5} per cent, per annum absorhs £2337 10s.
An addition of £5OO is made to reserve, raising it
to £55,000 ; and the remaining £153, added to
£2464 brought forwaifl, leaves £2617 at credit
of profit and loss. There is a very good increase
in deposits, and cash and liquid securities (£77.747, equal
to 35 per cent, of all liabilities to the public) have increased
during the half-year by over £lO,OOO. The great strength
of the little Ballarat Bank lies in the fact that the share-
holders’ funds are enormous in proportion to the size of
the business. If its advances depreciated 50 per cent, it
would still he a perfectly solvent concern, so far as
depositors were concerned, while, in the case of the biggest
and most esteemed banks in Australasia, a decline of 25
per cent, in the value of advances would mean practical
insolvency. From this standpoint, some of the smallest
banks are also the soundest.
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Australia publishes a
balance-sheet for the half-year to 31st December, 1899,
which, like most balance-sheets of this institution, tells
nothing definite. The profits from the visible section of
the hank show a great improvement; the profits or losses
of the half of the bank whose affairs consistently remain
dark may be better or worse—there is no information on
the subject. Visible profits compare as follows with
those of previous half-years since the second reconstruc-
tion :
Decemher, 1896.. £41,636 Decemher, 189 S .. £52,50l
June, 1897 .. 52,529 June, 1899 .. 52.247
Decemher, 1897 .. 53,222 December, 1899 .. 65,351
June, 1898 .. 52,363
There is here a very remarkable improvement so far as
the Commercial Bank of Australia is concerned. The profits
shown above are equal to £4 Is. 7d. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds (capital, £3,163,938 ; reserve
fund, nil ) —a very great advance on last half-year’s earn-
ings of £3 7s. Id. per cent. A dividend of 3 per cent, per
annum on preference shares absorbs £31,756. (By the
terms of the last reconstruction preference shareholders
were guaranteed a 2 per cent, per annum dividend—
£2l,l7l per half-year—until 30th June, ’99, and thereafter
a fixed dividend of 3 per cent, per annum, and it is a very
remarkable coincidence that in the first half-year when
the extra £10,585 had to he paid the profits increased
about £13,000 and covered the extra liability very com-
fortably). Another £30,000 is transferred to the Special
Assets Trust; and the remaining £3595. added to previous
balance, leaves £13,843 to he carried forward.
* * * *
The Special Assets Trust remains a mystery, as
usual. Something like £4,200,000 (nominal value, any-
how) of the Commercial Bank of Australia’s assets are
transferred to the Trust, and these were always under-
stood to be the least profitable and the least realisable
assets. About £3,400,000 of the hank’s liabilities (de-
posits) were also transferred to the Trust. But these
assets are as much the bank’s assets, and these liabilities
are as much the bank’s liabilities, as if they had never
been transferred. The Special Assets Trust is, to all
intents and purposes, as much a part of the Commercial
Bank of Australia as the Bank itself. If the Trust’s assets
don’t earn enough to pay interest on its liabilities the
Bank has to make up the shortage in the end. If the
assets don’t sell for enough to pay off the liabilities the
Bank has to pay' the difference. If there is a surplus in
the end the Bank takes the surplus. Therefore, unless
the Trust earns just enough to a penny to cover its out-
goings, the profits shown are not. the real profits, and they
don't show the real position of affairs, and the share-
holders are being kept in the dark as to the state of their
property, for the balance-sheet says not one word about
the Trust’s earnings. If the Trust earned £40,000 less
than working expenses and interest (supposing such a
thing were possible) then the Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia, after paying its preference dividend, made a loss of
some £6400 ; if the Trust had a £20,000 shortage, then
the profit, after paying preference dividend, was only
about £13,600. These are interesting speculations.
* * * »
This is the profit and loss account of the Bank
and the Trust combined ;
Preference Divi-
dend .. .. £31,756
Losses of Assets
Trust (if any). .unknown
Net Loss (if any) ?
?
Profits of Bank .. £65,351
~ of Assets
Trust (if any) . .unknown
Net Profit (if any) ?
?
Some 'time ago the directors of the Commercial Bank of
Australia professed to explain the reasons why they
supplied no information about the income, expenditure,
profits or losses of what is practically about one-third of
the Bank. They said that they, having only assumed
office since the reconstruction, were not responsible for
the old business taken over by the Trust (Tun
Bulletin didn’t say they were responsible ; it only said
the shareholders were entitled to know how that old busi-
ness—their own old business —was getting on). They
also said they couldn’t take the responsibility of valuing
these old assets. (The Bulletin never asked them to
value them. It only asked them to state—what they
surely must know —what income they produced and how
far it went towards covering outgoings.) They also said
that information about the Trust was available in the
Trust’s printed statement, but that statement didn’t
show either income or expenditure, so it revealed nothing
about how the Trust was, or was not, paying its way.
This reticence creates an impression that the Trust isn’t
doing very well. It isn’t even known how much of the
£30,000 transferred from the Bank to the Trust is re-
quired to pay interest on deposits, or if it is all so re-
quired, or whether more is wanted ; or whether there is
a balance to go towards writing down assets. The
Trust’s difficulties make no difference to the de-
positors in the Commercial Bank, but they interest
the shareholders very largely. They will have to
make up the ultimate shortage, if any, whether
it is £5 or a million. And if the new and valuable and
beautifully-painted Vic. hanking law, which was to make
all hank balance-sheets plain and above-board, allows the
income and .expenditure as regards over £3,000,000 of
assets and liabilities to he wholly kept dark merely by cal-
ling them a Special Trust Co., then the new Vic. banking
law isn’t so good as it looked.
Visible points are these : During the past half-
year the Commercial Bank deposits have increased about
£6ooo—this despite the repayment last September of
£340,000 of reconstructed moneys. Private current
accounts, in particular, show a splendid increase of about
£435,000. Note circulation has increased £lO,OOO. Cash
and liquid securities have increased by nearly £370,000,
and now stand at £2,132,660—equal to the enormously
strong proportion of 50 per cent, of all the bank’s lia-
bilities to the public. And against this there is the solemn
fact that the deposits of the Assets Trust are being paid
off at the following very slow rate :
}-yearto June, 1897 £27,907 }-year to Dec., 1898 £56,591
„ Dec., 1897 41,949 „ June, 1899 26,525
„ June, IS9B 45,474 „ Dec., 1899 20,682
This means that £219,P28 of the Trust co.’s reconstructed
deposits have been paid off in three years, reducing the
total from £3,642,001 to £3,422,873. At this rate of pro-
gress the liquidation will be finished in about 48 years.
In the same period £183,000 has been paid to the Assets
Trust out of the earnings of the Commercial Bank. There
is very little direct evidence in these facts, still they
suggest that the Trust’s assets are very slow of realisa-
tion, and that it is able to absorb a very handsome amount
of the hank’s earnings.
• * • *
The balance-sheet of the New Zealand Insurance
Co. for 12 months to 30th November is the best one which
this prosperous co. has issued for many years. The
following is the New Zealand’s record for nine years ;
1891 .. £29,228 .. 12} per cent. £25,000
1592 .. 40,142 .. 15 „ 30,000
1893 „ 28.805 .. 13| „ 27,500
1894 26,905 .. 13} „ 27,500
1595 21,453 .. 13} „ 27,500
1896 „ 29,097 .. 13} „ 27,500
1897 .. 11,074 .. 11} „ 22,500
Net Loss
189 f .. 15,541 ..10 „ 20,000
Net Profit
1599 .. 51,153 .. 10 „ 20,000
9 years’ Profits £222,316 9 years’ Dividends £227,500
Out of the £31,153 which remains after payment of the 10
per cent, dividend, £lO,OOO is added to reserve fund
making it £100,000; and £lO,OOO to reinsurance fund
making it £120,000. The remainder raises the profit balance
from £2193 to £13,346. The New Zealand Insurance
Co.’s reserves are altogether £236,868. A good deal has
been done this year to repair the slumpof 1898, when the co.
went £35,541 to the bad, reckoning loss and dividend, and
t00k£35,000 from its reserve fund. Net premiums (£315,284)
are £4OOO more than last year—the N.Z. co has by far the
largest fire and marine premium income in Australasia.
Interest and rents are £l6,992—about £3OO less than last
year. Still they average about 4 per cent, on investments,
which looks as if the assets were quite sound. The New
Zealand Insurance Co. has not only the largest premium
income, hut also the largest reserves among Australasian
co.’s. Even the great South British Co. which is an ex-
ceedingly good second, only shows £197,082 of reserves ;
and the rest are a long way behind.
* * • *
The accounts of the Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. (Melbourne), which have been improving
somewhat of late, show a further material advance for the
half-year just closed. The record since ’92 is as follows :
Dividend on £60,000
Profit. Capital.
June, 1892 .. £8548 30 per cent. = £9OOO
December, 1892 6874 22} „ = 6750
June, 1893 .. 4656 15 „ = 4500
December, 1593 3909 12} „ = 3750
June, 1894 .. 2287 7.4 „ = 2250
December, 1894 2265 7} „ = 2250
June, 1895 .. 305 Nil.
December, 1595 256 Nil.
June, 1896 .. 1702 4 per cent. = 1200
Decemher, 1896 1779 5 „ = 1500
June, 1897 .. 1756 5 ~ = 1500
December, 1897 1705 5 „ = 1500
June, 1898 .. 1723 5 „ 1500
December, 1893 1101 5 „ = 1500
June, 1399 .. 1953 5 „ = 1500
Dividend on £90,000
Capital.
Decemher, 1899 2693 6 per cent. = 2250
At December, 1898, the paid-up capital was £73,376, and
at June 1899 it was £89,702, hut on both these occasions
the dividend was paid on £60,000 only. Capital paid-up
is now £90,000, and for the first time the dividend at 5 per
cent, per annum is paid on the full amount. After pay-
ing it there is a balance of £443, which, added to amount
brought forward, makes an accumulated profit of £3696.
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. some
time back wrote off all its reserve fund to cover the ex-
penses of an unfortunate lawsuit and to write down
depreciation of certain unfortunate investments in the
Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank. These invest-
ments now stand in the balance-sheet as follows :
Deposits at face value £16,000
2800 £5 preference shares at 10s. each.. .. 1,400
£17,400
Whereas the market value last Saturday was :
£16,000 worth of deposits at (say) 14s. 6d. .. £11,600
2800 £5 shares at 23s 3,220
£14,820
To keep strictly to market values the co. ought to write
another £2580 off these securities, but as it is becoming
practically certain that the A. D. and M. Bank’s deposits
will yet be worth the full 20s. in the £, the point is of less
importance than it was. If the other assets of the
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. have been written
down strictly to present values, the co., with its improving
income, may be reckoned as showing reasonable signs of
solidity. Its chief troubles are that its leasehold property,
37 Queen-street, Melbourne, yielded last half-year £350
less than the amount paid on it in rent, and the £20,000
mortgage on the co.’s freehold cost in interest last half-
year £250 more than the co. received as interest on the
£20,000 of its own funds, which are invested for the
purpose of paying off mortgage at maturity. Still, these
things will probably come right in time. The great
defect is the want of any reserve fund, and one ought to
be started immediately out of the profit balance of £3696.
Also, the co. should take a resolve not to increase the
dividend beyond the present 5 per cent, till that reserve
reaches something like £50,000.
* * * *
The Sydney firm of S. A. Joseph and Co. sends
by the ship Lota to London 2000 tons of wheat and 6000
tons of flour. This will he the first full|shipload of bread-
Btuffs that has ever left Sydney.
• * * •
Compare the returns made by some Westralian
co’s to the Govt, with the same co’s’ reports furnished to
shareholders—and then make a note of it. Lake View
Consols, for instance, told the Govt, (statutory declara-
tion accompanying) that in September 15,5310 z. were
obtained ; report to shareholders made it 32,0800 z. But
in October the figures supplied to Govt, were 55,1510 z.,
while those exported for shareholders’ (and perhaps
intending shareholders’) consumption were 30,0720 z. On
the year’s operations the totals are much the same; but
the comparison shows just how little “ averaged ” returns
are worth—and they all do it, or nearly all.
* • * *
When the figures are all made up it will be
found that Coolgardie district produced about 127,3500 z.
gold during ’99—a serviceable spring from the 93,6730 z.
of ’9B. Returns latterlv average just about an ounce a
ton ; this includes gold from tailings cyanided. The
district has left alluvial-mining behind it; the yield from
that source is not now 2 per cent, on the whole. Bayley’s
is the best producer, with Burbank’s close up.
* * • *
Spite of satisfactory.reports, tbe old hand will
reckon that all is not as well as it might be with Green-
bushes tinlield (W.A.) when “most of the leases have
taken advantage of the Christmas exemption, and the
field is practically deserted.” *
There was not a single Westralian goldfield (and
officially it has just a score of them) that had not by the
end of Nov. far outstripped, for’99, its total ’9B output.
Murchison had to hustle most to do it—at least, it didn’t
hustle and only just did it.
* * * •
The results from the Southern Cross cyanide
plant so far are satisfactory, and anything from 1090 to
2000 tons a month will he treated for an average of
probably 500 oz. Lying round are about 00,000 tons
tailings. But the mines badly want a fillip underground
as well.
• * • *
“ B.”: It would be interesting to know the
secret power behind the fashionable Hannan’s Oroya
stock. The total output of this mine from the start (it
commenced crushing in September, 1897) gives about
Bdwt. of gold to the ton—or a shade less than working
expenses—which is rather poor for a stock that, during
the past two months, fluctuated between 88s. and 435.,
and is now up to 495.
» * * *
W.A. Associated Mines yield for December —
22280 z. from 3950 tons, or much less than one-half the
returns of some previous months. And this depressing
report from the manager : “ Quite impossible to get ore
from Yetley shaft last month. . . Total amount crushed
from lack of perfection of details is unsatisfactory.” Has
the sulphide plant proved a failure? If so, this will
account for the drop in price, though that cannot affect
the reduced tonnage. Apparently dividends will be
fewer and smaller this year than last.
* * * *
Wire from a Kalgoorlie correspondent: Returns
for the next three or four months will probably show a
decrease all round. The Associated’s January output
may be larger than that for December, but the average
yield per ton is almost certain to be much less. Lake
View Consols is in much the same situation. If the cost
per ton of sulphide treatment were made public it would
be calculated to give the shareholders paralysis, but particu-
lars are carefully concealed here. Information of this kind
goes to London, and drifts hack in a gradual way by
mail when London people are quite done with it. The
Great Boulder is putting through its richest tailings, and
the returns from them compensate for the falling-off
in the supply of oxidised ore —for there is a very great
falling-off. It is an open secret that the London people
are very anxious over something or other with regard to
both the Associated and Lake View Consols, and the
stoppage of shipments to the smelters has caused a
startling diminution in the output. There has been some
movement in Hannan’s Consols, an unpromising show
adjacent to Hannan’s Reward ; also in Hannan’s Central,
which adjoins Block 45, and resembles it in patchiness.
* * * *
The Lady Shenton Mine (Westralia) for four
weeks ending 6th January obtained 12400 z. 7dwt«. of
smelted gold from 1244 tons ; and 490 z. 14dwts. from 115
tons of “ trial ore,” whatever that may be. This makes
rather less than loz. per ton. For the year 1899 the out-
put from the mine was 13,779 tons, yielding 22,2450 z.
17dwts. of smelted gold, and in addition 5720 z. 4dwta.
were obtained from 203 tons of concentrates. The last
clean-up, therefore, shows a much smaller yield per ton
than the year’s average. The regular gag is that “ the
stone will get richer as it goes down,” but it much oftener
gets the other thing.
* * * *
“ M. 0.” : On the barren acres of tbe Dora mine,
a concern which an enterprising push of West Coast (Tas-
mania) promoters shot into a speculative public, there is
not a soul to be found now, and the lonely crow flaps its
wings disconsolately over a telephone-line extracted out
of the Government by the same crowd. The Red Hills
Mountain of Copper (?) so consistently boomed in many
quarters, seems also pretty dead, and unless it sells to a
new co. which has better success than the old one
the Tas. Central Board of Health should order au early
burial.
• * * *
J. A. Wallace’s introduction of electricity
instead of steam, as a motive power, on some of his
Yackandandah dredges, is one of the most important
changes so far made in Australian dredging ; though, of
course, there are comparatively few places where sufficient
force of water can be got at a handy distance. The
biggest gain from the public point of view is that, with
the fuel bill reduced, the dredges will not have to pick
out the eyes of the alluvials flats, as they are doing now.
* * » *
“Melb.”: A curiosity is the House-Knacker
town, in North Fitzroy, on the plain near the gas-works.
Here are gathered the wooden houses which have been
rooted up from all quarters to escape the heavy sewage
tax. They await transference to other places, according
as they may be sold, and £lO will buy a residence on
which a thrifty paterfamilias has paid his £l5O to the
building society and lost it after all.
» * * *
For 17 years S.A. State Forest Department has
been distributing trees free ; in that time 4,582,133 plants
have been sent out. And during the eight years that
vines have been given away, 1,258,327 have been dis-
tributed among 6148 persons. The Department is now
specially fostering the date-palm plantations in the far
north; at latest 3013 plants were alive and flourishing.
The overflow from several Oentralian artesian bores is
bordered with these palms.
* * * *
“ Y.”: The profits of fruit-growing: I sent four
gin-cases of excellent peaches to market last week by a
dealer. After paying charges, middlemen, and others, I
got 9d. per case for my fruit! Come off the land, young
man !
* * * *
The Commercial World, London, writes re-
garding the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society :
“Asa matter of fact, the Society earns its success by de-
serving it, and, that being conceded, the best possible has
been said for the continuance of the large measure of pub-
lic support which it has hitherto received.*
* * * »
The Great Boulder Co., Kalgoorlie, have just
placed an order with the Austral Otis Engineering Co.,
Ltd., South Melbourne, to build a pair of compound con-
densing engines of 700 h.p., to drive their extensive mil-
ling plant. These engines will be of the latest type, with
Proell valve gear. The flywheel is 20ft. in diameter,
grooved for 16 ropes, and weighs upwards of 22 tons. The
total weight of engine will be 85 tons. The engines are
to be completed by the end of the year and will be the
finest and largest plant on the field. Three engines under
construction at the Otis Works for the Kalgoorlie Gold-
fields have an aggregate of 1800 horse power.*
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can he ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * *
Gilfillan and M'Creery, Mining and Metallurgi-
cal Engineers, 434 Collins-street, Melbourne, report on
mines, attend to the flotation of approved properties on
the London market. Complete battery plant and Willey
table for bulk tests. Plans and specifications for all
classes of mining plant.*
* * • *
The United Brothers gold mine, situated at
Glen Wills, about 25 miles from Omeo, Gippsland, has an
improved appearance, and even better things are looked
for as deeper ground is reached. The mine possesses an
up-to-date mill. The stone is conveyed automatically to
hopper, thence to Gate’s Crusher and on to 20 head of
stamps of the A.T.B. pattern. A small but complete
plant of Luhrig Yanners and Classifiers treats the battery
tailings and continues to win a large percentage of valu-
able concentrates, which are a satisfactory source of
revenue to the co. This Luhrig plant was supplied and
erected under contract by Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere,
506 Little Collins-street, Melbourne.*
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Ilorsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, lie., &c.*
* * * •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must he subject to inspection.*
» » • •
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Eootscray
works, and he is nowin a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, Burning, patent Nelyatnbo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts, forgings, and all sortsof iron-work.*
* * * »
Related that a little gang of Bendigo “amal-
gam-touchers ” used to plant their loot in a heap of tail-
ings and sometimes had to wait a month for a chance to
get the stuff away. But alas! one of the gang formed
an unholy alliance with a local Fatman, and when there
was a specially large plant of spoil, Fatman bought the
tailings from the co. and had the heap watched day and
night until it was carted off, the deal resulting in a profit
to him of close on Jt'looo.
• • * *
A Sydney landlord in a small way lately bounced
an elderly female tenant for rent-arrears, and seized both
sewing-machine and mangle. “ Drop them,” said the old
lady, “ and get! ” Presently the landlord found that a
recent Act had exempted from distraint typewriters,
mangles and sewing-machines. Landlords’ special privi-
leges in N.S.W. are, without the community being fully
aware of it, being gradually eaten away. For instance,
in addition to the above exemptions, any tenant may hold
against his creditor-landlord wearing apparel, tools of
trade and bedding to the value of CIO. Further, should
the landlord set about shunting the tenant, this is the
process : First, he must give the tenant seven days’ notice
to quit; second, at the end of that time he must apply for
an ejectment-order, for which he pays ss. It will take
between five and eight days for the application to come
before the court, and then the magistrate may decide
that the order shall take effect in a week, 14 days or a
month. Next, the landlord presents himself anew to take
out the ejectment-order, for which he pays another half-
crown. Finally, armed with the order, he may call on a
policeman to put the tenant out. No member of the
community was so buttressed with special rights and
lirivileges as the landlord once was, hut now he doesn’t
oom up and obliterate the heavens as he used to do.
* * * *
“Scissors”: The newspaper-law needs amend-
ing so as to prevent “ enterprising proprietors” forcing
their papers on the public and then demanding payment.
Why should a newspaper-man, any more than any other
trailer, have the right by law to do this? Business firms
frequently receive gratuitous copies for the sake of their
advts., and with the number of free periodicals of all
kinds arriving almost daily, it is impossible to tell the
“complimentary” copy from the blackmail, and conse-
quently one is in a quandary about returning them to the
P.O.
• * • *
N.S. Wales was, from its earliest days, the Tom
Tiddler’s ground of the medical quack. Every convict-
ship carried men who professed to he able to heal all
diseases and who sold their ignorance for whatever
it would fetch. Rum was a good currency, hut
victuals or clothing were gracefully accepted in quittance.
The public of ttie day seemed to prefer these practitioners
to those accredited by Govt. Gov. King, who had a
liberal sense of duty in this respect, ordered all the
quacks of the territory to appear before him on a certain
day, and when the muster was complete he interpellated
the gang severally as to antecedents and medical
knowledge. He picked out a few and licensed them, and
the rest he prohibited to practise under pain of exile.
But after King the industry revived, each convict-ship
setting loose in Sydney one or more rascals whose sole
medical knowledge was acquired in scrubbing the wards
of gaol hospitals in England.


DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
MERGERS, HATTERS, and GENERAL OUTFITTERS.
SOFT FRAME FELT HAT.
7/6.
STRAW HATS.
From 2/9, 3/6.
M- IMPORTERS OF
HIGH-GRADE ENGLISH & AMERICAN
FELT HATS, NECK WEAR,
UMBRELLAS, etc., etc.
PARIS HAT.
21/-
HARD FELT HAT.
8/6, 10/6.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
George & Barrack
Streets,
SYDNEY.
A. WORD
ABOUT THE CONTINGENT!
A SOLDIER HAS RECENTLY BEEN STYLED
AN ABSENT-MINDED BEGGAR
!©
a®
BUT THE FIRM OF
HBRRinSTOII 0 CO. ltd.,
DO NOT BELIEVE IT, as the number of CAMERAS
they have sold to each Contingent proves that a soldier
KNOWS WHAT HE’S ABOUT. Press the button oi
a Snap-Shot Camera, and he will take a portrait of his
comrade, or A BATTLEFIELD.
RELIABLE
INSTRUMENTS
from
{ONE TO FIFTY GUINEAS!
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD., 66 KING
Queensland Branch • 34 Queen-street, Brisbane. Melbourne Agents :
Agents in every Colony.
STREET,
SYDNEY.
179 Collins-street.
SOCIETY
Bertram Mackennal’s statue 'of Her
Gracious sails for Melbourne this month, but will
probably not be unveiled -at Ballarat before May
24th. The idea is to reserve it for a special burst
of Birthday “loyalty.” The Queen, as sculped by
Mackennal, is a noble work of art, and a master-
piece of deception, judging from criticisms to
hand. The “squatness” of the aged figure is
dissembled by its royal robing, and the fact that it
WHY THEY WERE GOING.
MAN: "Hullo, where are you going?”
PARTY (unanimously): “ Oh, we're taking little Johnny to the pantomime. Children are so fond of the pantomime.”
stands ten feet high will go a long way towards
convincing Ballarat that a limited monarchy is a
very fine form of government.
* * * *
The cruel story is told in the West that a
“volunteer for service,” who owed the examining
surgeon a considerable sum for attendance, was
Sromptly turned back with the remark that the
octor thought this the best climate for his ex-
patient until —well, until all the traces of the late
illness had been removed. As the only remaining
trace of the late illness is the unpaid bill the re-
mark might be construed as a hint.
In Melbourne the other day a wild-eyed
British drunk went into the shop of a German
tobacconist and demanded tobacco gratis. Appar-
ently he was a good jingo, who thought the
degraded foreigner ought to keep a noble citizen
in free tobacco. He afterwards broke a plate-glass
window with his billy and was fined £lO. The
loial papers described it as “assault by a pro-
Boer.” Melbourne is so greasily “loyal” just
now, that a man can’t even throw road-metal at
a dog without being called a pro-Boer.
• * ¥ m
A romantic Maoriland damsel, signing
herself “ Polly Atkins,” has suggested, in a letter
to the Wellington Evening Post, that, as a
barber is kept busily employed at the encamp-
ment, the clippings and shearings might be artisti-
cally made up into locks, with Contingent colors,
and be sold to swell some of the numerous funds
now being provided. She is sure that, at Is. a
piece, the supply would be unequal to the demand;
but, at the same time, she says that precautions
should be taken that “we shall not be supplied
with any hair but that shorn from the dear boys
who are going across the water.” But, alas !
everything in this world is adulterated, and even
the dear boys’ hair would probably get mixed.
And then a worm would gnaw at Polly’s soul as
she wondered in after years if she had really got
the right hair or not.
• • * *
These jingo Australians should really be
more careful of their history. Captain Freehill,
at the farewell to N.S.W. Irish Rifles, off to shoot
Boers, magniloquently reminded his hearers that
the Irish
would display the bravery of their forefathers, which was
shown at Fontenoy, at Waterloo, and wherever the
honor of the British flag had been upheld.
Now, it was precisely at Fontenoy that the honor
of the British flag was not upheld ; the British and
their allies were beaten, thanks, in great measure,
to the charge of the brigade of Irish exiles which
fought with the French.
» * * *
Lollie Kaser Singh was duly hanged at
Adelaide, the other morning, for the destruction
of a brother Indian-hawker with an axe. Lollie
may be said to have died for the glory of his
ancient race, whose courage had been under a
cloud of suspicion since the time when one Fatta
Chand cut a gruesomely humorous figure at
Ballarat gaol. Fatta Chand showed the strongest
possible objection to death by violence. After
being placed on the drop he wriggled his arms
out of bondage and caught hold of the beam, so
that it became necessary for the hangman to un-
loosen Fatta’s grip of this world and assist the
brown malefactor into eternity. The late Lollie
effected a very different exit. He bowed politely
to the hangman, and the warders, and the press-
reporters, then smiled a pleasant smile and
straightway dropped through the iron floor, like a
hawker and a gentleman.
The “At Home,” and the “afternoon
tea,” are almost silent feminine excesses compared
with “Ladies’ day” at the baths.
When a swarm of females from
five up to 50 invade the
baths they all shriek
and scream and splash
and shout and laugh
and cry and call and
clamour at once. It is
an ear-splitting confu-
sion of throats alto-
gether eclipsing the
corroboree at the
tower of Babel.
Every swimmer and
paddler wants to be
seen or heard or ad-
mired. She wants
to attract attention
although she hasn’t
a feather or a fashion
on. Her figure may be \
as angular as a cathedral
gable but she wants to be seen.
Yet nobody looks at her; every-
body is too busy hollering to
look at anybody. She may have
a voice like an angel; nobody
cares. Should any inexperienced nymph get beyond
her depth and cry for help she runs a big risk of a
watery end, for no female body heeds her. An
unemotional man is generally on the look-out and
his plunge into the water is the first intimation
to the bathers that somebody is sinking. The
female bather rarely learns to swim. She never
gives herself a moment for reflection; she merely
wears very little and hollers.
* • » *
In Western Queensland blessed with an
artesian well you occasionally meet with strange
experiences. You come in, hot, thirsty. You
naturally feel that a bath is just the thing you re-
quire and you adjourn for the purpose of getting
one. You pull the string or turn the tap (as the
case may be) and find yourself boiled in ten
seconds. Then you say tilings that would look bad
in print. You ascertain, shortly after, that the
tank has only just been filled from the bore, and
that the temperature is only 180 degrees Fahren-
heit. Then you say more things.
♦'* * *
There are not want-
ing signs that the Con-
tingent mania will yet
do a good deal towards
breaking the already
weak financial back of
N.S. Wales. It is
gravely stated in S.M.
Herald (IG/l/’OO) that,
“under a mistaken
notion of what the
British army authorities
would do, the full rate
of 4s. Cd. was at first
paid out to them ” (the
families of the absent
Contingenters). “As
soon as it was ascer-
tained that the men in
the field would be paid
the Imperial rate per
diem, that amount was
deducted from the 4s.
6d. per day.” Now,
though 4s. 6d. a day is
probably the biggest
soldiers’ pay in the
world, it is a miserably
small sum when divided
up. The War Office
must have its ration
stoppages paid, and the
soldiers require tobacco,
boots, socks, shirts (such
things don’t last long
on active service); so,
in the end, the wife and
family of each Austra-
lian Absent - minded
Beggar will have to
crowd through on about
2s. 3d. a day (15s. 9d. a
week). If there are four
or five of them, and the
rent of the weather-
board cottage with the
hot iron roof, is 10s. a
week, that leaves ss. 9d.
a week for food and
clothes for the crowd.
So, unless the Austra-
lian warrior’s depend*
ants are to starve in
their absence, and be a
very bad advertisement for the country, it will
presently be necessary to do something pretty
large and expensive for them. And the financial
back of the country is already sagging down in
the middle.
* * * •
The small boy’s presence of mind is a
wonderful circumstance at times. A Hamilton
(Maoriland) smail boy lately discovered a man
who had just hanged himself, and with a dim
recollection of something about the means to be
taken for the resuscitation of the apparently
drowned, he rushed at the would-be suicide and
hauled desperately at his feet. He might have
hastened strangulation, or ho might have broken
the suspendee's neck, but as the luck happened
his extra weight broke the rope instead, and the
man fell on the small boy and was saved. Then
the boy, bruised but proud, explained the circum-
stances to the police.
A recent advfc., being another example of
the compositor and his works: “ To let, House in
beastly locality.” Probably meant
for “healthy locality.”
A HEAVY STRAIN. WILL IT BREAK?
Officer (unwittingly describing the situation):
“ ’Tension!”
The dreadful mistake of the Vic. Vice-re-
gal and contingent farewell ceremonial was made
at Queenscliff, where the battery exploded mighl "y
in honour of a no-account vessel loaded with hides
and sundries, and allowed Brassey and his Sunbeam
to pass out later in ominous silence. The pathos
of it lay in the explanation of the officers that they
had only ammunition enough for one salute, and
having wasted it on the wrong vessel, they were
helpless.
* * * *
On the night of the passing of Melb.’s
2nd Contingent of Boer-prodders the warriors who
remained to hold up this end of the Empire (and
drink beer) became rather pugnacious. Outside
Young and Jackson’s hotel, at 11.30 p.m., two
Artillery men treated the public to a good, willing
fight, while a little higher up the street some blue-
jackets bailed up a Highlander, and pulled down
his socks, and compelled him at the point of the
bayonet to sing “Sons of the Sea” in a thick
Scotch voice with variations.
* * * %
“N.”: What a lot of trash the so-called
National Gallery of Portraits, at the Melbourne
Public Library, is made up of. It is selected, or
pitchforked, on the principle of massing Shake-
speare, Milton, Smith, Brown, Jones, and Robinson.
Neither George Turner nor George Reid appears
there, although the living do flaunt in oil portraits
of smirky Dunky Gillies and a certain B. Cowde-
roy, Secretary of the Melb. Chamber of Commerce.
The only “Australian women” included are—Lady
Hbpetoun and Lady Carrington ! Even Higin-
botham is not there. What does such a rotten
National Gallery mean ? But stay, it includes all
the Governors of all the beastly kawlines. This
is what posterity will thirst after—Gawler,
Snooks, Jooks, and Lord Nozoo.
* * * *
“ Melb.”: The Church Army in Melbourne
is a fizzle. It’s training home and meeting hall in
Fitzroy are deserted, and have the board up—“To
Let.” The Salva
over this piebald
wanted to bang
spats on, and
shilling collec-
guinea hat.
tionists have galloped
organisation, which
the drum with
take up a one-
tion in a one-
“A LOYAL
CHICKEN.”
TRUE TO THE
LAST.
(Sketch in a Poulterer’s shop.)
Chief Justice Madden, of Victoria : “If
ever there was a just quarrel this (the Transvaal)
war is one.” A return just laid before Vic.
Assembly sets forth that in 35 appeals from
Madden’s judgments his judgment was held to be
wrong in 20 cases—in other words he was wrong
four times out of seven. The above makes five
times.
BRIDE NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Into the World came the starlit Night,
With kisses cool and chaste
She held me close to her breast, moon-white.
And all my cares effaced.
She swept the dust from my weary eyes
With Angers deft and fair
And with the breath of her fragrant mouth
She tenderly fanned my hair.
At the hour of twilight, when passionate day
In a death-bed of glory dies
I hear the sweep of her regal robes
And feel the light of her eyes.
Ah dear Bride Night with calm soft arms
And hair in cloudy streams,
Come and kiss me out of the world
Into the land of dreams.
LOUIE ERNEST.


“A NIGHT CAP”
Of cotton or wool is a relic of the past, but of
“D.C.L.” Scotch (Black Bottle) Whisky is the
up-to-date comforter, and is a boon to all who
suffer from sleeplessness.*
“ APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty,
and the Obese. Apply to Chemists for “Regimen
for the Obese ’’ Card, published by the Apollinaris
Company, Ltd., London.*
Pure blood is essential to
good health.
-Brink ZETZ-SPA WATER,
and you will have long life.*
Messrs. David Blythe rnd Co., of Sydney
and Melbourne, Australian agents of the Vinola
Co., Ltd., have received the following cable.
“Giving to War Fund for Widows and Orphans
until end of War on every tablet of Vinola
Soap sold. We have given already £4250 Os. Od.”
This represents the donation for December last.*
3mc a. o jlm m=t o a. :Kr»s
3VErs
THIRD EDITION NOW READY
COOKERY BOOK#:
Price, 3s. 6d.
ALL BOOKSELLERS.
EDWARDS, DUNLOP <st CO. AGENTS.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
- FREE BY POST.
QTTAID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
SSI- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustral ia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
f
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
CONDY’S
Fluid
1
X
TO YOUR BATH
The efffxt is Magical.
Beware of Colonial Imitations
Insist on buying
“ CONDY’S FLUID.”
The foil owing name & addr ess
should be at foot of label: -
Condy & Mitchell, 65, Gosw ell Rd., London,
nm
Do you know you can use
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
in boiling the clothes, or without
boiling the clothes, and the result
will be clean sweet linen,
white as driven snow.
When the plague outbreak was reported
from Adelaide quite a number of Melb.’s represen-
tative citizens, who had booked sleeping-berths by
the Adelaide express, suddenly discovered that
they had urgent business which would detain them
for a week or so. When they notified the circum-
stance at the booking-office with a view to a re-
fund of the deposit, the clerk laconically and quite
innocently observed that “he had heard the
plague had appeared over there.” “O dear, no!
Nothing of that sort would keep me, I assure you 1
Pressing business matters ! ” One individual was
more candid. He wasn’t afraid of the plague
himself, but his wife and her mother were also
foing over, and he was alarmed for the old lady.
Ipidemics of that sort, he said, were usually so
fatal to old people.
* * * *
There is much of mystery surrounding the
alleged bubonic plague cases at Adelaide Hospital.
Eppstein, the seaman who was first attacked,
had been on board ship on his way from New York
for many weeks, touching at no infected port en
route, and after arriving in Adelaide had been
ashore for seven weeks before going to the hospi-
tal. The doctor who sent him there did not regard
him as a case of plague. He was sent to the hos-
pital on totally different grounds. The second
patient was a boy from a country township, and
the only reasonable hypothesis is that he caught
infection at the hospital. The authorities have
taken no notice of the charge freely made that the
trouble has arisen through someone failing to take
E roper care in the matter of plague “specimens
ept on the premises, and no outside experts were
consulted.
* * * *
The legend goes that during dear departed
Lady i.Brassey’s travels in Victoria, she took a
fancy on one occasion to have an escort of sailors
from the Cerberus, and they were speedily
mounted on a spare lot of police horses, a,nd
formed into a bodyguard. The son of the heaving
Yarra, as a rule, managed to stick to his craft
pretty fairly, but his clothes were unsuited to the
emergency. Grievous was the shock her Ladyship
and party received at beholding the pants of the
escort gradually working up to the knees as they
rode along, and exposing a vista of hairy legs before
the Vice-regal vision. The contingent was fre-
quently halted to have its disgraceful slacks
pulled down, but all was of no avail until the
nearest township was reached, and the local
saddler called in to make fast the unruly garments.
The officer in charge of the Naval Mounted Horse
was severely reprimanded for allowing such a
sight, and ordered to be placed at the bottom of
the list, which didn’t affect him much, as he was
the only one of the grade. This tale is published
in a frivolous spirit as a matter that may be true,
and if it isn’t it ought to be, and if it ought not to
be it doesn’t matter much.
* * *
A bright Christmas incident is reported
from Nagambie (Vic.) A local mother had for-
bidden her boy, Johnnie, aged'
12, to go swimming in the heat
of the day, and, naturally,
Johnnie went at the earliest
opportunity. Hearing of
the mutiny, his parent armed
herself with the neces-
sary weapon, and sailed
down to the river,
where Johnnie was
discovered disporting
in midstream. She
called Johnnie ashore,
but Johnnie knew
enough to remain out
in the wet, and dis-
creetly disobeyed ;
whereupon his mother
charged out upon a log
to improve the oc-
casion. The log canted,
and the matron was
swarming in the river,
making desperate and
unwise attempts to
swallow the whole
stream at a gulp.
This was J ohnnie’s
3ortunity, and right
ly he responded.
He went straight to
the rescue, and, after
a gallant fight, suc-
ceeded in towing the
heavy parent ashore.
For a few minutes
she lay upon the bank
with tTohnnie in one
hand and the strap
in the other. Pre-
sently, however, she re-
covered, and then, rising
to her feet, she turned
to her noble son—and
whipped the nude youth till he
was pink and purple from post
to finish. Shows how sharper than
a serpent’s tooth it is to have a thank-
less mother !
When there are no warships in, and no
contingents to send out, ’Obart has to depend on
its own little tragedies to keep itself awake. At
a recent very swaggish “dahnce,” a diminutive
ex-Judge created intense excitement by cavorting
around with a lady’s hair-comb dangling at the
end of his whiskers. And the strangest part of
the business was that the owner claimed it without
a tinge of remorse. But this is only an episode
in ’Obart.
* * * *
The unclean city of Footscray (Victoria),
the bone-crushingest and soap-boilingest place of
its size in Australia, almost got cleaned a little the
other day. In view of the bubonic plague out-
break at Adelaide, a councillor suggested that one
extra man be put on to remove the things that are
better not specified from the open gutters and the
mud-flats, but his suggestion lapsed for want of a
seconder.
The small ironies of life. Oyer the prison-
ers’ entrance at Prahran (Vic.) police court hangs
a horse-shoe—presumably for luck,
though whether it is for the
luck of the copper or the
copped nt one knows.
“ MUSICAL MELBOURNE. "—SOME “ROAR” MATERIAL.
The outbreak of bubonic plague in a S.A.
country town has led a doctor with foreign
experience of the disease to refer to the serious
Sart rabbits may play in its perpetuation and
istribution among the Australian inlands. The
rabbit is a great germ-carrier, and the danger is
the greater because, in drought time, the rabbits
flock into the neighborhood of the townships,
where they can at least get a little garbage and
water, and a good many then die about the houses
or on the nearest water-catchments.
* » * *
In the Far West, the draggle-tail, charged
with the unlicensed sale of a bottle of “ colonial,”
has invented something new in the shape of an
excuse. “Oh, yes, the gentleman had a bottle of
beer at my place and took away another with him.
away from under their feet, and even the passing
mosquito is struck by a shell before he can get out
of the way. Yet the casualties, as a rule, amount
to less than the record of a football match.
• • * *
“ Cecil P.” : Sign, on humpy, in a little
New England hamlet, reads “ Tronduenmiphili-
penotroscomontimista, Tonsorial Artist.” Shop
shut; barber starved out. But then, “a good
name is better than riches,” and where could you
find a better name than Tronduenmiphilipeno-
broscomontimista ?
* * • *
Tasmanian papers (they have got the Jingo
fever very bad in Tasmania, and are coming out
in spots the size of a dinner-table) are deluged
with patriotic poetry, supposed to be original. It
isn’t all original, for one excited Tassie lately sent
in the old “Story of a Drum,” and the editor,
whose reading was apparently limited, printed it
in all good faith as a perfectly fresh local produc-
tion. But some of the outbreaks are obviously
made on the premises. One recently published in
Launceston Examiner has the refrain :
Rich and poor, high and low,
Are all invited to pay
For Justice, Honor, and Tommy,
With a hip-hip-hip-hurray 1
“ Justice, Honor and Tommy ! ” Why not “ For
God and John Smith ? ”
But, y’see, yer Waship, I’ve got a cooler at my
place, and, it being not, the gentleman brought
down the couple of bottles and left ’em with me
the day before.” However, there was the payment
to be accounted for; for money had been seen to
pass. “ Oh, yes, yer Waship ; y’see I’d washed a
pair of pants for the gentleman, and he was paying
me.” And yet they fined her £SO.
The honorary beak again. For assaulting
his wife with'a chair and breaking two of her ribs,
the Bendigo J.’sP. fined a man 405., and
ordered him to keep the peace,
and not break any more of
his wife, for six months !
“ T.D. ” So far the efforts of Australian
war correspondents are mostly dreary commonplace
beside the intense descriptive work of the big
English specials. The man from Australia is
handicapped by having to chase round after the
little penny contingents instead of seeing the stnte
where it is hottest. The big point about lately-
deceased Steevens, for example, was that he had a
practised eye for the thing as a whole; had he
been put on to follow the IST. S.W. handful of
Lancers, he also would possibly have ground out
columns of stale and unprofitable small-beer.
* * » *
As-The Bulletin anticipated, the support
of the so-called N.S.W. “ Bushmen’s Contingent”
has already been to some extent shoved on to the
NSW. taxpayer. The Govt, is feeding the pen
camped at Sydney, ah<T the Bushmen’s Committee
haughtily announces that it will only start paying
when it has picked and approved its men. Sundry
city men in tall hats, who wouldn t know a gum-
tree if they saw it, are doing the selection. It
would be interesting, by the way, to know how
much of the £22,000 subscribed is held p cash and
how much in enthusiastic promises. The most en-
thusiastically promising thing in nature is an eel.
“ Yarrum ” : At a certain N.S.W. con-
vent school, 75 per cent, of the young lady boarders
are daughters of publicans. How’s that for beer ?
• * * •
The departure of the second Vic. contin-
gent on Saturday was remarkable principally for
the immense enthusiasm of the crowd and the.
utter extinction of Gov. Brassey as a public
institution. Five miles of man and woman
and dust and dog were in a state of intoxi-
cation, yet not one cheer was raised for the
departing Uncle Tom all along the route.
The Governor’s party was about 20yds. in
advance of the leading contingent line, and
the difference of the applause in the 20yds.
was astounding. People rushed the rifle-
men and affably pounded their backs, and.
once out of the city on the Port Melb.
road, the absent-minded beggar’s casual
Sirl with her large red hat falling un-,
eeded m the road and her short skirts
flying in the wind charged as one girl
and carried the day. All the rest of
the way 250 warriors and 500 girls
were inextricably mixed, the formation
being badly burst up in tearful females
who hung round the necks of the con-
tingent and wept all over their khar-
kee. And Uncle Tom, mooning along
like a large, sleepy, kindly matured cat at
the top of the procession might have been a
Boer for all the enthusiasm he created.
The Australians in the
Transvaal seem to bear charmed
lives. Every day cables say.
they pass unharmed through
a perfect hail of bullets, miles
by hours in dimensions, their clothes are
perforated, their horses shot, the ground raked
THE LATEST FROM ADELAIDE.
FIRST TYPICAL CITIZE N: “ And how are we to-
day?”
SECOND TYPICAL CITIZEN: “I feel a little out of
sorts. A touch of plague, I dare say.”
First T.C.: “ Deah, deah.”
THE UP did Tailor.
j--'.
LfeJ I lKir\K I keaf
Fy tread;
you's/e aj^V^
for 7 Ke bfeak
ySor ke-^d
{ofyou *'\\ fe,
Ky b|owr y
/Ar\d b£ quif-£.
f\£ fir\d
Kjs dofK^
THE DISLOYAL DOMINIE.
Mr. Perry, of the Education Department, was
sent into the country the other day to enquire into
the case of a public school teacher accused of dis-
loyalty. The charge was, in effect, that this
unpatriotic pedagogue had advised his pupils to
“pray for the Boers.” Mr. Perry “considered
the matter of sufficient importance to demand a
full and searching enquiry.”
Far out, or near—l cannot say—
But call the place Burrungaree—
There is a school where pupils pray
For Boers vile diurnally.
That this was wrong they did not know ;
Their wicked teacher taught them so.
And, since the war began, it seems
Those youngsters of Burrungaree
For Boers and their brutal schemes
Have been a-praying constantly—
They did not know the Boers were
The bosom friends of Lucifer.
The efficacy of such prayer
No mortal man can ever tell !
P’r’aps Gatacre was caught in snare,
And poor Penn Symons fighting fell,
All through the prayers sent up so free
By juvenile Burrungaree.
The Shocking Traitor, steeped in crime,
Who did his country thus betray—
What made him so his pupils prime ?
Was he, perchance, in Kruger’s pay 7
The case against him looks as black
As if he’d pawned the Union Jack.
If he had even stood up, and
Blasphemed like Holman, M.L.A.
Against the Dear Old Motherland,
’Twould not have been so bad, I say,
As thus to use, for purpose vile,
The prayers of the juvenile.
And, horrible to contemplate !
He might have still been doing so ;
And hampering the march of Fate ;
And bribing Heav’n to work us woe;
Had not some patriot, out back,
Put Mr. Perry on his track.
Then Mr. Perry, in hot haste,
Swooped down upon Burrungaree,
And under cross-exam, he placed
That rank, disloyal dominie.
Result: “He tells his pupils they
Should always for the British pray.
There was a Personage Divine-
Long, long ago, in Galilee — .
Who taught—and tried—the creed benign
Of praying for the enemy.
He might redeem mankind—but He
Would not do for Burrungaree.
CREEVE ROE.


CORSETS^-.
BOilt oi) Anatomical Principles,
faking d£sg allowance for the flat, tigbt-
fitting Styles Dow in tfogGe,
Are to bg obtained at
—MARK FOY’S.
They allow ample breathing room, and give
the correct bip at no sacrifice of comfort
or shapeliness*
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
’RUNNING
m
m
MACHINES!
Write for our il:ustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
n
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St, Brisbane.
The number of smiling and happy faces
lining the Melb. streets on the day when Lord
Brassey and the contingent went away did not
denote universal joy at the loss of that fro’i-Dome
potentate. It testified to the universal pop Parity
ot the P.D. corset. The consciousness that she is
encased m a P.D. will preserve lovely woman’s
equanimity even under the harrowing circum-
stances of a contingent’s departure. *
It was encouraging to notice in a recent number
of Pearson s Weekly that the public in England were
appreciating the South Australian invention, the “ Alba-
tross. Lamp Wick.” They endorse all that is claimed for
VC, viz., that it requires no trimming,” saves oil, gives
better light, and is far safer.*
PUBLIC
NOTICE.
m
The
Infallible
Exterminator of Bedroom Insects.
is now obtainable, from all Chemists and Grocers,
at Is. per bottle.
Wholesale : ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd. ; all
Wholesale Grocers, and the Agents, 150 The
Strand.
GLOBE TEAS. have NO Equal.
Ateherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
My Dear Myee,- Sydney ’ January 23 ’ 1900 -
dS the J h | ey march ® d *?»y down the
village street, their banners floating gay <
bringing the history book up to the date of that
warm Australian Wednesday; breaking through
our one little century’s shelteredness, and commg
face to face with a great remote, beautiful
full of guile and horror, gilded till it fascinates’
that was what Sydney was doing last Wednesday
when the second contingent went away. ' y
I went over the Moravian, and saw the nurses’
cabins. All m the steerage, except Miss Gould’s »
Certainly they were to dine saloon, but I shall not
forget in a hurry that eight-berthed stuffy hole
wher«te nd l h l 10rses ’ bey ° nd the kitchens,
where those plucky women were going to camn
en ™y*ge- It was remarked that women must get
used to roughing it when they are going out to
battle, but why not apply that remark to the men
also . Trust me, a hospital nurse doesn’t want any
longer apprenticeship to hardships than a man. '
Silhouettes silhouettes. Black shadows thrown
by the golden sunlight. A weed of a boy with six
women round him, mother grey-haired, with wild
eyes betraying the desperate mind, revolving re-
volving, from his first tooth and his first prize up
to this terrible day ; “ his girl ” sobbing, but sup-
ported by his arm and the knowledge that she is
his girl; two friends who have come to help her
bear it, broken down into their handkerchiefs
crying worse than anyone ; little sister with rims
of scarlet to her big black eyes; married sister
come from the country to say good-bye to “our
Jim. Only a weed of a boy, made of a pattern of
thousands of others. But six women, In mortal
anguish even now, when he stands there thin and
weed-like and living beside them.
His Ex. paid a little visit to the Moravian
before it started. He was gotten up in the green
vestments of our own Australian Horse. I had to
assure myself of that several times, else I must
have believed he was masquerading as Rosalind
In the words of somebody else (I feel sure that
these are not my very own) “a large green hat
flopped sideways over the soft young face, the
wind drifted through his black plumes, and he
dipped like a wilted lily against the soft dark-
green of Ins collar.”
Anyone with a dry eye must have smiled at the
anxious motherliness with which Chief-Justice
Darley shepherded Rosalind through the crowd.
‘On his own ” the Chief is a hardened diplomat
that nothing can fluster. But when taking Little
Billy under his wing, he looks as worried as if he
was suffering from congestion of the conscience
unscientifically known as Moralysis. Certainly
His Ex. looks exquisitely helpless on all State
occasions, and the dear old Chief has had to guide
his foot-steps, as it were, more than once.
. Bill-Jim, assembling to see Tommy off, crowded
m large quantities on to the roofs near the gate-
ways of Woolloomooloo wharf. On their off-
moments, when not engaged in guiding bits of the
procession between the gate-posts and in picking
off other bits that had already stuck, the Roberts
made systematic sorties on to the roofs by way of
ladders, and heaved Bill-Jim off in large and angry
fragments. When, during one of these raids, the
ladder fell and a lonely constable was left stranded
on the enemy’s territory, the cheer that rose from a
thousand British throats was worth even attend-
ing an embarkation to hear. Just then the Gover-
nor in his tight waist strayed past, looking every
inch a soldier—of the opera-liouffe ; upon seeing
whom the old ladies lifted up their voices and
wept. Why do old ladies always weep when they
see Lord Beauchamp ? It is a psychological
problem.
N.S.W. War Office does not work prettily. The
dispatch of that section of the second contingent
that went by the s.s. Surrey last week was a
master-piece of confusion. The Moravian looked
nice and clean and seemed to be possessed of some
desire to look respectable. But the Surrey was
awful. The decks were thick with coal-dust.
From-end to end she was covered with t .vo rows
of flimsy-looking horse-boxes that reminded one of
hen-houses on a poultry farm. They were guiltless
of pamt, with great cracks through which could be
seen the gathering crowds in the Domain. Black-
smiths and carpenters were hard at work putting
up more of these structures which looked as if one
moderate sea would carry them all td the bottom
of the vasty deep. Some of the horses were aboard
and their tails hung through the cracks.
On the wharf it was confusion gone mad. There
were carts of meat, waggons of fodder and port-
manteaus and top coats, lorries of flour, piles of
boxes marked “compressed mutton,” barrels
marked “vinegar,” a couple of maxim gun car-
riages, and stray fragments of kits and loose horse
furniture lying all round.
The Moravian had a plentiful supply of com-
pressed fodder piled round the funnel. If a spark
gets into it it will be declared that the wicked Dr
Leyds has reached out the long secret hand of
incendiarism from his Paris villa to save his
adopted country from the terrible fury of the
Cornstalk.
Judging by the way some of the horses played -
up at embarking, a few of the mounted infantry
are in for a bad time when they reach Afric’s
sunny fonteins. One brute, who was dozing in a
small army-service corps’ cart, suddenly awoke
with an insane desire to kick, and he did kick,
fiercely and impartially. He kicked his harness
off, he kicked the ribs of a big draught horse in a
flour lorry, kicked the cart down with a bang, and
he kicked a portmanteau off the splashboard, and
barely missed an officer’s chest as he did so. The
soldiers stood round him in a ring and shouted
‘‘ Whoa ! ” and “ Halt! ” What would have hap-
pened is hard to say had not a butcher-boy rushed
in and seized him by the headstall, and kicked
inn m the chest, and backed him against a pile of
wood where he simply couldn’t kick.
ri A cro "' d of women climbed on to a wagon-load
of flour from which to watch the soldiers go by.
1 lie man at the winch yelled for the flour, and a
policeman ordered the lydies down. They wouldn’t
J-he lorry drew up at the ship’s side, and
big Murphy t hedriver, covered with a thick crust
of dust and flour, offered to lift them down. They
smiled, and let him bounce them down till he
came to the last, a dainty young tiling, who drew
ber skirts round her and shrieked loudly An
officer came forward and held out his arms to her.
hitohL h embra e c d e. Shneking dropped £ race fully
More kharki, more Austral Horse on foot, and
tneLancers stream past waving farewells A girl
with a tear-stained face burst through the crowd
and gazed hungrily up and down the passing
column. When the last man had passed she sank
down on a box and sobbed. Down where the
troops were marching to the Australian the police
fil 1 , Naval Bngade were stopping all female
fi lends. But bit by bit the line of police and
blue-jackets bulged and gave way, and next
moment scores of women were streaming down
the wharf. After that things took care of them-
selves, and order went to such small pieces that I
couldn t find a fragment of it anywhere.
Some odium is due to the men who offered
bottles of whiskey to the Contingent all along the
line of march on Saturday, because it inspired a
nameless theological crank with the idea of offer-
ing tracts done up like the whiskey bottles afore-
said. 1 lie dry warriors opened them eagerly, and
were comforted with “ The Hying Drummer Boy,”
and things to that effect. Whereupon they
naturally took more whiskey, and the procession
demoralised in a terrible way.
The marriage of Miss Slattery, only daughter of
Lawyer Slattery, with Mr. Frank Lyons, son of a
late Maryborough solicitor, was accompanied by a
nuptial Mass and Communion, the Cardinal in his
red gown, and some beautiful singing at St. Mary’s
Cathedral on Tuesday morning. The wedding
made a stir in Catholic circles, as the blonde bride is
the centre of a bevy of handsome Catholic convent
girls who seemed to be debuting all in a bunch last
season. One of the bridesmaids was pretty Miss
Oxenham, in white tucked Swiss muslin
fichu and a white chiffon hat. Her father,
the redoubtable Humphrey, donated a mag-
nificent wedding gift, a huge diamond
crescent. The bride’s frock was a creation of
Limerick lace, made into a peplin over chiffon
flounces mounted on white glace silk. Mrs. Slat-
tery, aunt and step-mother combined to the bride,
wore a black lace polonaise over white silk, and
black lace flounces. The wedding was strictly
guestless, but the Cathedral was crowded, all the
same. In the afternoon a reception went on at
the Australia, and the bride left for the Mountains
in a grey voile frock made up over lilao silk, and a
grey straw hat with lilac feathers and orchids.
You will be sorry to hear that Edith Crane has
been ill ever since “ Tess ” started. She suffered
badly from her throat all through the first night,
and has been unable to play ever since. Linda
Raymond took lead for a few days, and Florrie
Gleeson was put into Linda’s place as milk-maid.
Then Emily Hughes was imported to play Tess,
and Linda Raymond went back to her own part,
which missed her badly, and Miss Hughes’ pain-
fully affected tones are nightly reading out her
newly-married name as “Mrs. En-gel Clee-ah.”
Which, being interpreted, means Mrs. Angel
Clare.
I told you last week about the scent given away
at the Royal and Her Majesty’s. This week goes
one—a dozen I should say—better. Afternoon
teas and ices are to be handed round to the d.c.
and reserved stalls at matinees ! This is theatre-
going made comfortable, if you like. In fact, the
only thing now wanted is a gilt-edged invitation
from J. C. Williamson to everybody “requesting
the honor,” etc.
The Newsky Family’s rapid heel-and-toe work
in their Cossack dance, at the Criterion, is pro-
bably the ideal system of gyration for their region
of snow where it takes a lot of rapid motion to
keep one’s nose from becoming public property.
But in that case why do nine-tenths of the dancers
stand almost still with their hands gently clasped
over their black velvet front clothing while the
other tenth in his fiery boots scuttles round the
semi-circle looking like a lost soul seeking the
shadiest spot in the infernal regions ? The British
dancer’s idea is to get his heels as near heaven as
possible, but the Cossack’s is evidently to get his
head as close to the earth. The one is a high-
kicker and the other looks like the football that is
to be kicked.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent
“ During the wait for the procession of Brassey,
&c., on Saturday, just when every inch of Collins-
street, and every window was full up of spectators,
a vision of female loveliness in the shape of an
• elegant young lady, calmly drifted out of a case-
ment at the top of an eight-storey building and
perched herself on the six incli window-sill out-
side composedly dangling her pretty ankles and
two expensive stockings over the ledge. Partly
on the ground that the lady might fall and kiil
herself, partly for the reason that she couldn’t
well fall without dropping on and killing some one
else, and partly through wild excitement arising
from the stockings, this vision was received with
dread mingled with loud applause. The girl kept
her seat for about an hour, and then gracefully re-
tired, the audience giving three cheers for each
symmetrical ankle as she disappeared, and one
cheer for the rest of her. She deserved it as
much as did Brassey, for on that memorable day
neither of them fell off.
“ Owing to the protest of the W.C.T.U., all
alcoholic liquors donated to the second Vic. con-
tingent were refused admission to the boat. The
donors, however, triumphed; they sent along the
cases branded ‘Bibles for our boys,’ ‘Tracts for
Tommy Atkins,’ ‘the Christian Soldier,’ and
other devices, adding ‘ with the compliments of the
Y.M.C.A. and the W.C.T.U.’ as a guarantee of
good faith. - And though about a ton of alleged
bibles were thus shipped, this superfluity of
apparent scripture seemingly aroused no suspicion.
“ The edict went forth that no women were to
be allowed on Port Melbourne pier to farewell the
second contingent. The barriers were carefully
guarded against every wearer of a petticoat—until
the vessel moved away. Nevertheless a couple of
hundred casual girls hugged the contingent at the
gangway, in defiance of all civil and military law.
The mystery is explained by the local boatmen,
who reaped a great harvest by rowing the girls
across from the other pier during the morning.
They were then smuggled away in the cabins of
the different ships lying at the pier by officers
who were unable to resist their tearful appeal,
and remained in concealment until the contingent
arrived.
“ Soldiers are all the rage at present. Judging
by the neglected aspect of recently-paraded
veterans, it was not ever thus ; nor probably will
it be thus for long. Some years back this scribe
met in a suburban burying-ground the sparsely-
attended funeral of old General JEiyall, formerly of
Lome, Bendigo, and Deniliquin, who had annexed
wounds and medals in the Indian Mutiny, and
many other places. Same week, young Clive
Clarke, of Cliveden, a maiden warrior with his
spurs to win, was buried in Melbourne Cemetery
with all the martial pomp and circumstance
usually connected with the obsequies of some illus-
trious military hero.
General Ryall, by the way, is still remem-
bsrecl hereabouts as a pleasant Irishman who wil-
lingly turned up his shirt-sleeves and tackled the
washing-up, etc., whenever his fragile womenkind
lacked domestic help. At one time, when he lived
at Deniliquin, a selector’s unsophisticated daughter
was pressed into the family service. This simple
maiden was once disappointed in the matter of a
visit home —her father couldn’t come for ‘ Beetie ’
by reason of many incurable diseases in the horse,
When the General informed ‘ Beetie ’ she bitterly
called him an ‘old dummy.’ Being reproved for
this, she repented, and resolved never to call him
old again—the idea of him objecting to the
‘dummy ’ never occurred to her. That evening
the penitent servitor drove the dining-room door
open by aiming her bare foot at the handle, and
entered with a candle in each hand but no candle-
sticks. Carefully dropping a blob of hot grease
on the table-cloth to fix them in, she said cheer-
fully, ‘ Them’s the candles, young man.’ It was a
touching attempt to hold out the olive-branch
with her naked foot, so to speak, and the General
took it kindly.
“Janet Lady Clarke’s second boy ‘Russell ’ will
be of age in a month, so it would have been no use
his mother withholding her consent to the young
law-student’s cabled request that he might join the
gentlemen yeomanry ’ leaving England for the
I ransvaal. As her elder son is already at the front
with his regiment, the sorrows of war encompass
the popular widow as closely as most. Recently
at a Town Hall meeting in connection with the
Patriotic Fund, she adorned the platform in one
of her prettiest frocks. Black silk-muslin, shim-
mering with jet and silver, veiled all the close-
fitting under-dress of white silk, except the yoke
tight slee\ es and skirt-border. A. relief of white
chiffon epauletted the shoulders and softened the
collar. The Mayoress, with a hard-blue vest
and the same color piled on her broad-brimmed
hat, seemed crude and utilitarian by comparison.
If money can buy it, however, Master M‘Eachani
and his two sisters should be rich in acquired Vere
de Verishness. These juveniles spend their child-
hood in cloudy England, parted from father and
mother, with a view to cleaving' effectually unto
the accent, deportment, &c., of John Bull.
“ Mr. Cameron, of Bairnsdale, who is interest-
ing himself in the corps of bush scouts, is the son
of a patriarehial Highlander, owner of Bealiba
station (Vic.) Cameron, senior, was married
more than once. One of his brides was a widow
with a family of her own, so there was a regular
gathering of the clans under the Bealiba roof-tree.
Ihey spoke Gaelic among themselves, and some
were Catholics, others staunch Presbyterians, but
they were all devoted to one another, and all re-
freshingly simple, honorable and brave.
“The folly of church-going was exemplified
at an inquest the other day, when the twelfth
juryman failed to appear because he had gone
to church on Christmas Day, and the clerical
feeling thus created made him think Xmas was
Sunday, so he fancied that Tuesday was Monday.
When church-going so upsets a man’s mentai
equilibrium, it seems to argue the necessity for
total abstinence from that brand of stimulant.
“Surgeon Fitzgerald's daughter is the only
Sassiety girl represented at this year’s exhibition
of the Melb. Artists. Two merlioere landscapes
are hung under the name of ‘ Ethel Fitzgerald ’—
one depicting ‘ A Rainy Day near Doncaster,’
which is a part of the country surrounding the
T itzgerald rural residence. John M‘lntyre opened
the Exhibition of Vic. Artists last Thursday with
the news that lie wasn’t an artist. He followed up
this great truth with several doubtful utterances
commencing with ‘lf I might say,’ ‘I may be
allowed to add, I venture the remark,’ and sun-
dry ifs and probablys.’. One satisfying thought
extracted from a long circumlocutory utterance
was his promise that he would endeavor to tap the
Government for a little better support than the
annual hundred pounds at present doled out to the
Artists Society.
lhe latest gem in the form of head-gear has a
tricky scarf dangling a fringed tail over the left
side of the nm. For a while, one only saw them
on picket-duty in the windows of ‘chic’ milliners •
but during the recent heat-wave trippers of the
Flock have flaunted them extensively. The over-
hanging silk fringe acts as a sort of winker to the
left eye. It is the quintessence of sauciness.
Saint Hilda has lost its queerist identity in
Barney Blair, the Queensland aboriginal boy,
whom Mrs. Dr. Blair adopted long ago. Every-
body knew Barney by sight, if not by name—a
short, curly-haired, flat-nosed and very black
dandy, taking his walk abroad in patent-leather
boots, and supported by a white gal on either side,
9 s a , ru , lhe summit of a good many young
females ambition was attained when they had
been seen strolling down the Esplanade on Sunday
with Barney, for he was notorious as well as odd-
looking. lhe story went that eccentric Mrs.
Elan adopted the grinning blackling (during her
husband s lifetime) for spiritualistic reasons. She
took the youngster for the re-embodied soul
of a deceased nephew or something, and treated
him accordingly— sent him to a grammar school,
and made a ‘little gentleman’ of him. Barney
was said to be almost out of his teens when his
aimles i career came to a full stop. Probably he
died of the conviction that he was out of place in
tips world, and would be better off elsewhere.
Tlis school-mates gave him an excellent character
tor amiability and generosity, and so forth, but
they were all agreed that poor little Barney hadn’t
enough heart to keep him going.’ Difficult for a
woman to get at the exact meaning of ‘ heart ’ in
men. If it means the quality that keeps them
going, one could wish that many of the creatures
were more heartless than at present.
“Bondon Trvrrcs correspondent George Morri-
son, while staying with his relations, the Higgins
family, in Victoria, related that there is a bronze
statue of the Queen in Burmah. He heard a
native criticising it, and expressing his astonish-
ment to find that the Queen was a black woman !
Re Bittle Kit Columbus’; there are scores of
smart, 5 dressy, showy matrons exactly like ‘Mrs.
Block. Good-hearted women as a class, though a
hard, knowing facial expression is characteristic of
the type. Sheridan’s antics with the train of his
yellow evening-gown are realistic. Certain human
birds of paradise must always flaunt their volumes
m observer s very face.
Suburban’s high-flyers, blessed with smart
petticoats, are not content to advertise their ad-
vantages by silken rustle. In railway compart-
ments homeward-bound from the theatre o’nights,
municipal marms turn up their dress-skirts to the
waist, and smooth their satin slips over their
knees with a smug complacency calculated to
worry she-onlookers. Also, their massive ankles,
neat as new pins in silken hose, &c., are spread
forth for inspection.
Sheridan s trick of hitching his rear draperies
recalls the contortions of women some months ago
when pockets had gone sheer to the back pre-
paratory to abdicating in favor of handbags. A
local tram-conductor, I’m told, lost his temper
one day because a lady kept him waiting ever so
Jong while she stood up anti burrowed and grabbed
d °-T\ back for her P} ,rse - At last the minion
said, When you’ve quite done scratching your-
self, mum, I’d like your fare.’
“ Grade Whiteford as Columbus, to a feminine
eye looks an over-plump boy—a fatted gooseberry
ULiilcf of lad. Those tan cross-garterings on Kit’s
pale blue hose are effective items in a successful
costume. Poor Maud Denny, Madge Hope and
Ethel Buckley all dress as if a step-mother served
out the pin-money with a hard, freckled hand and
an ungenerous heart. Frank Crossley, as that
repulsive and not-at-all-funny Mayor, tends to
vulgarise the proceedings. Fred. Sinclair
(U Hooligan) is especially convincing in the
matrimonial quarrel, but isn’t ‘ Baby, Good-night ’
rather a maudlin affair ? A she infant-devotee
would go down better than a paternal ‘sentimental
tommy in a smock-frock short enough to show
extra thin legs.
"V ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


HALF-SICK
PEOPLE.
Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed,
lazy, and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly ; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC «*-
Perpo»t,l.M. SULPHUR PILLS
65 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
n
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY : 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
o
Ul .
HU
Z com
OfflhiL
mn
A
Address (a postcard will do):
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited,
Sydney.
[Please mention this Paper.]
The third edition of that useful work,
Mrs. Maclurcan’s Cookery Book, has been issued.
To quote the Authoress, “My only apology for
coming before the public is the knowledge that
when a man eats, and eats well, he is in a con-
dition which conduces to his comfort and good
temper.” Mrs. Maclurcan claims that her book
reveals the secret of this achievement. See advt.
on page 11.
The Elixir of Life—
ZETZ-SPA WATER. .
Try it. See that you get
ZETZ.*
The Bulletin has received the prospectus
of the Linnean Memory Lessons from the author
and teacher, Mr. R. Brown, of Sydney School of
Arts. Mr. Brown does not claim to do any
miracles. The memory, like the biceps or the
muscles of the hind legs, can be improved and
made much stronger by proper exercise. And
Mr. Brown claims to have the kind of exercise
that will do this. The Bulletin has not tried the
system, and what it is constantly on the lookout
for is a good system of forgetting things—mostly
the things it sees in the Daily Telegraph—but as
far as can be gathered by a glance through the
prospectus there is heaps of exercise in it.
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney.
Lorimer’s
Compound Syrup of Uypophosphites.
. . Beware of Imitations . .
Sole Agent for N.S.W.:
0. E. Newman, King-st., Sydney.
Ayniard’s Milk Sterilisers
to arrive shortly.
85P” A Revolution in Sterilisers.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A Gosford (N.S.W.) family named Legge
is alleged to have sent five sons to the war. A
genuine case of giving the cause a leg-up.
A beautifully-dressed male who recently i
arrived in Tas. from Melbourne, wore, on the
breast of his coat, the Union Jack, Stars and
Stripes, and a photo of General Buffer.
Rev. D. S. M’Eacharn, of Melbourne, re-
membered for his awful zeal as a heretic-hunter in ,
the Charles Strong case sixteen years ago, celebrated
his holy jubilee the other day. M’Eacharn has
been ordained Presbyterian for half a century, and
is stiff on the look out for heretics.
Miss Agnes Macready, the first Australian
nurse to go to the front in S. Africa, is daughter of
the Rev. Henry Macready, one time Moderator
of the Presbyterian Assembly. She studied
surgical nursery under Dr. Fitzgerald, of Mel-
bourne, and was lately matron of Bowral (N.S.W.)
hospital.
Major-General C. H. Smith, who is re-
ported from London as commanding the Austra-
lian forces in the front in S. Africa, fought against
the Boers in 1881. He was second in command
at Laing’s Nek and elsewhere. He led an
Egyptian expedition in 1891, and altogether did a
lot of heavy work.
Dr. Lalor, of Orange, N.S.W., now wait-
ing his trial, at Ballarat, Vic., on a charge of trying
to shoot an auctioneer in his rostrum, is the only
surviving son of Peter Lalor, of the Eureka
Stockade riots, in ’54. Peter had a daughter, but
she died before her father. Those two were all
his children.
The warrior’s return is sometimes a sad
spectacle. One N.S.W. town supplied a solitary
hero for the war ; he was presented with a medal
by a local member before leaving, and farewelled
at a big public meeting, and hundreds of people
and a band saw him off at the railway station.
Then a few weeks later he came sorrowfully back,
sacked on account of beer.
Thomas Hodby, who died in Adelaide this
month, was one of the very few soldiers who
survived the wreck of the troopship Birkenhead,
off the South African coast. Hodby, then 19
years old, got into the water at the final plunge,
and never knew how he got ashore. To show his
thankfulness he straightway took up the white
man’s burden and went shooting Kaffirs.
Of the late N.S.W. Speaker Terence
Murray’s two sons, the English-settled one is
among the Boers’ warmest champions while the
Australian one has gone to lead the N.S.W.
“ Irish regiment ” to the slaughter of the South
African patriots. True, the one was always
noted for brains and the other for muscle. It is
the one who is noted for muscle who is off to the
war.
"Vic. Chief-Justice Madden’s fiery oration
with which he stormed the Patriotic audience at
Melbourne Town Hall was too much for him —he
succumbed next day. He put aside the closely-
buttoned frock-coat, the rolled umbrella, the
button-hole, the bland smile of years, to lay him
down and be tended as a ohild in his Frankston
snuggery. He is suffering 2rom Absent-Minded
Beggar on the brain.
Melbourne papers record the death of the
colored lad (adopted by a well-known society lady)
who was taken to Guv’ment ’Ouse, Melbourne,
and introduced to vice-royalty as “My little
aboriginal boy, Lady Hopetoun.” “By a pre-
vious marriage, I presume,” was the cold reply
of the countess, who afterwards issued an
edict prohibiting the introduction of colored per-
sons without special permission.
“Hairpin”: A story of Abb£ Schurr,
referred to in a recent Bulletin. Some years ago
a young Italian priest, ill-acquainted with En-
glish, was sent up as junior to the Abbe, and at
the end of the month Schurr handed the young
man a cheque for his salary, quite forgetting that
he himself had, the day before, drawn at the bank
a considerable amount of money to pay his ex-
penses to Sydney. The Abbe left for Sydney
early on the day the Italian presented his cheque
at the bank. It was not paid, and for the next
few days the priest wandered round the township
calling the forgetful old gentleman
‘ ‘ tief, ” “ robbare, ” “ burgulare, ”
“ scoundereel.” It was a miracle
that “Ned the Baker” —a rale
Italian lad from Oireland —did not
“stouch” the slanderer of the
beloved old priest, but the Italian
father’s accent was so complicated
that most of his language wasn’t
comprehended of the masses.
“Melb.”: Quinlisk is th#
most peculiar name in Melbourne
directory. The owner is a Fitzroy publican.
Dickens or Balzac would have impounded that
name.
Apparently there are some real ringers
offering for the Bushmen’s Contingent. One last
week nearly fell down when asked if he was a
bushman. “Why, dog-scratch-me,” he said with
a shriek of anguish, “ I’m gidyah bred, straight
from the Culgoa and no scalawag neither, but a
right-down silvertail. Can I ride ? why I rode a
ZR filly last week until the hide came off with the
saddle, and as for track, I’d track a bug to an
aboriginal.”
“ Majah ” Gordon, the eye-glassed S.A.
commandant, goes to the gold war with the
local contingent as special service officer,
retaining his salary of £5OO a year. Gordon has
been absent from S.A. continuously for the last
three years, but had sufficient influence in high
quarters to keep his billet, although the work was
done by Major Stuart at half salary. Gordon
owed his appointment mainly to the good offices of
Lord Kintore.
Poor old Q. politician Groom has been in
a sad state of collapse since his shoddy god Drake
seized the £lOOO a year. The broken-up patriarch
has been in Queensland Parliament since the year
one, or thereabouts, and hasn’t managed to strike
a portfolio all the weary time. He isn’t only the
father of the House, but its grandfather and re-
mote ancestor, Noah, as well. If Drake had taken
office with Dawson during the late crisis, he might
also have got a place for his faithful follower, but
now that James has left his party, the Remnant
isn’t worth buying.
Dr. Alexander Morrison, of Melbourne
Scotch College, was a student at Aberdeen Uni-
versity with the late Governor R. Hamilton, of
Tasmania. Among the Victorian “boys ’’ who
have passed through his hands are Trea-
surer Shiels, late Chief Secretary R. Ramsay,
Justice Hood, Professor Andrew Harper, and W.
Bruce and R. M'Leod, the cricketers. The first
boy to enter the college when it was founded in
1851 was J. D. Law, now manager of the Bank of
Victoria.
“J.L.” reminisces on a small brown
politician:—
Ex-Premier Turner (Vic.) served his articles to John
Edwards the younger, who would slaughter a man who
wrote “ junr.” after his name. John’s father was an old
Tasmanian settler ’ who went over to Melbourne and
became managing clerk to his son. The practice of the
“Oollingwood Boy,” alias the “Native Companion,”
would have gone to the dogs at an early stage but for old
Jack, who did the fatherly bully in the office, and George
Turner, who was the good boy of the firm—reliable and
irreproachable. Turner was born middle-aged and dead
serious.
Dr. Fitchett of “ Bleeds that Won the
Empire ” fame, represents in his new book “ How
England saved Europe ” that Arthur Wellesley
(afterwards Duke of Wellington), was a brilliant
success in arms from the start. As a matter of
fact he lost his first battle in India, but his brother,
who luckily happened to be Governor-General of
India at the time, promoted him and gave him a
fresh start. When the defeated soldier was asked
by a friend what he would have done had he lost
his second battle, he replied: “I should have
hung myself on the nearest tree.” Probably he
never said it, but it was said for him anyhow.
Sam Mauger, commonly, but wrongfully,
called “Mogger,”the new member forFootscray
(Vic.), is a hatter, and is the second of the trade
that has been in the Victorian Assembly of late
years. The other was T. Smith, 'member for
South Melbourne. There will now be a hatter
and a shoemaker (Billy Trenwith) in the Labor
corner, and if tailor John M ‘Mahon at last gets m
for Fitzroy, the comer will be able to rig-out the
whole House, if it only gets the job. Also, the
House will feel very uncomfortable when it is
rigged-out, for Trenwith’s boots are said to be
lamentable.
Indignant loyalists in Melbourne are
writing to the papers to say that something hard
should be done to Jack Murray, M.L. A. foi
Warmambool, whose mild speech in opposition to
the second Contingent is felt to be a great sin
especially just now when there is a demand that
freedom of speech shall be suspended. But nobody
does anything to the big man from Warrnambool,
and nobody will—if he knows what is good for
him. About a year ago in the precincts of Parlia-
ment House somebody did try to remonstrate with
Murray. He got home suddenly on the member s
nose and made it bleed. Murray simply fell on
him, spread him out on the floor, and holding him
on his back, allowed his bleeding nose to drip upon
him from head to foot until the assailant looked
like a pantomime demon. Nobody has seriously
remonstrated with Big Murray since then.
SOME MORE BENDIGO TALENT.
Ex-Governor Brassey got off a touching
little effort after his address of farewell to the
Melbourne contingent. Turning to Col. Price,
with a tomato flush on his cheek, and a break in
his voice, he grabbed the large warm warrior by
the hand, and said chokingly: “Thank you—
thank you —thank you ! ” It implied that Tom
Price had pulled the Empire out of a hole and the
Queen was touched to the quick. The spectacle
was full of pathos, and many onlookers were
One member of the first Q. Contingent to
the Transvaal had such an athletic appetite that
at least two hash foundries had given him up. In
an oyster supper competition, at Brisbane, this
champion won easily w,ih the following record.
12 large plates of oysters, 2 tins of sardines, 8 rolls
of bread, 1 crab and
3 large bottles of
stout. Time,
35min.
"AS IN A LOOKING-GLASS
MAN FROM IRONBARK: “ Excuse me, sir,
but could you direct me to the Waxworks, my
missus wants to see the fat woman !”
The will of Viscountess Canterbury,
daughter of an English squire named Thompson,
and wife of a former Governor of Victoria, was
proved in London recently for something under
£lOOO. A diamond bracelet given her by the
Duke of Edinburgh, but paid for by the British
taxpayer, was left to her daughter, Miss Mabel
Manners-Sutton. A similar ornament given her
by the Prince of Wales Lady Canterbury left her
daughter, Mrs. C. E. Bright, with special injunc-
tion that both these priceless treasures should
never go oyt.of the family. Should “Uncle” get
them would they not still be in the family ?
Col. Umphelby, a Victorian, who went to
Capetown as an “ observation officer,” or some-
thing, writes in an artless strain of the exalted
persons he is meeting: “Some day next week I
am asked to stay with Count Gleichen at Mr.
Cecil Rhodes’s house. Count Gleichen is a good
comrade. He is equerry (likewise cousin) to Her
Majesty, and has seen a lot of service. His
breast is covered with two rows of ribbons.” Now,
was there ever a Queen’s cousin and equerry
whose breast didn’t resemble a ribbon emporium ?
Last week Melb. Argus announced the
death of R. W. Shadforth, ex-P.M. at Wanga-
ratta, and said he came to Victoria in the forties
as Associate to “Justice Burton,” when Justice
Willis was “transferred.” Burton was never in
Port Phillip or Victoria. He sat in Sydney, and
nowhere else. Shadforth came with Judge
-Jeffcott, who was the man that succeeded Willis.
And Willis wasn’t “ transferred ”at all. He was
removed from the Bench finally, for misconduct.
.The par. mentions in an offhand way that Mr.
Shadforth married an admiral’s daughter “many
years ago.” It was a trifle of 55 years ago—in the
year 1844.
Amidst the hurly-burly of war cablecrams,
the Melb. newspapers direct further attention to
the moans of numerous individuals who are suffer-
ing from J. H. Grey, the Geelong solicitor. Grey
and his £250,000 “shortage,” more or less, appear
to have escaped the Government’s recollection. A
while ago, there was some talk of Attorney-Gen.
Isaacs issuing a warrant for the arrest of Grey in
parts unknown, after which the war fever started,
and the Turner Govt, came to grief, and Isaacs
went to London, and the missing Geelong
“shark” lost his identity, so to speak, in that of
the other Absent-Minded Beggar who has left a
Inf. rvf liftlp. thin ora Tap.liitiH him.
Jock M‘Kenzie, Premier Seddon’s heavy
burden, issued a huge Christmas card in which
a picture of Victoria’s humble domicile, Balmoral,
in one of the bottom comers, may well be taken
for Jock’s own residence. No explanation is
offered. In the centre appears himself flanked by
Mrs. and Miss Jock, with a Maori inscription on
top, and a fearful-looking slab of Gaelic under-
neath.
Occupying a respectable position in N.S.
Wales at present is a man, under 30 years, who
spent six years as a leper in N.S. W. lazaret. The
disease germs died out while he was in the lazaret,
but he carried back to the world and still exhibits
evidence of the mutilations the leprosy—' was it
leprosy ’—caused. The case is encouraging, inas-
much as lepers and their families are so generally
afflicted with a sense of the hopelessness of re-
covery.
Reitz, Transvaal Secretary of State, is of
German descent, and years ago, while holding an
official position in the Orange Free State, he
founded Ithe Afrikander Bond, which afterwards
swallowed, or was swallowed by, Hofmcyer’s
Farmers’ Protection Society. Later on he became
President of the Orange Republic, and while he
occupied thav position he took a trip to Europe.
In Holland, Belgium, and France he was received
as the head of a sovereign State, which he un-
doubtedly was. Then he crossed to London,
where a bull - headed Government absolutely
ignored him, and refused him the recognition it
extends to German princelings who are not even
sovereign, and who hang on to territories not a
quarter the importance of the little Orange Re-
public. This studied insult made for Britain a
most valuable enemy, and was an item in a train
of circumstances which will cost many millions.


*■■■ The Favorite and Best Summer Drink is——.
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER
SEE THAT
YOU GET IT.
'
Genuine
FRANZ JOSEF
Look for
on Neck Label.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
M AGON OCHI E’S
SILVOCEA
FRESH HERRINGS
HERRINGS IN TOMATO SAUCE
KIPPERED HERRINGS
THE VERY BEST.
139 GOLD MEDALS.
ROWLANDS
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
Aboriginalities.
A VOICE FROM THE BUSH.
m
'JAmctW
Whenever I read The Bulletin, with its dis-
loyal gutter sewerage, 1 spit on it, trample it under
foot, and then burn it. There is only one thing
poor Paul Pry is proud of, and that is his country
—and when he hears that country called a nation
of cut-throats, murderers, robberi, and sweaters, it
riles him, The Bulletin doesn’t believe in a God,
and thinks the world was created by the devil. It
is “agen ” everything. It calls its minimi informa-
tion “ The Wild Gat Column,” and assumes that
every mine is a wild cat and the directors a set of
scoundrels. It never spoke of a good action of any
man in its life without assuming a corrupt motive.
There is one exception to its universal ‘ ‘ slinging
off” and that ivas the Suffield case. Suffield was
convicted of a crime, and so The Bulletin had a
sneaking regard for him. The case gave The Bul-
letin an opening to libel the police, the law authori-
ties, the Government, and the female sex as lasci-
vious perjurers. I would not like to know very
many of the ladies with whom The Bulletin
associates, and on whom it founds its notion of the
female character. Its right place is in Russia, as
the official organ of the Nihilists. There it could
have its Uing. Issued in some lonely cave, we can
imagine it being read by groups of desperate men,
who had sworn to assassinate the Czar and bring
about the reign of chaos. But I fancy the Nihilists
wouldn’t have it; they’d be afraid their organ would
turn against them. Perhaps The Bulletin might
shift its plant and staff to Hell. 'There it would
find a world such as it imagines this to be. But
there is one objection to th is. Satan is beginning to
be very jealous of The Bulletin, and two such
great men would not work well together. Then The
Bulletin, if it got to Pandemonium, would com-
mence to boss round, say how things ought to be
done, and call Satan, Belial, Moloch and Cos. a lot
of “ old fossils.” — GIPPSLAND MINERS’ STANDARD.
Bill’s brother had died, and a faithful mate
had nursed him tenderly. Said Bill, between
sobs and sighs, to express his gratitude to that
faithful mate : “By Gord, Jim ! I hope your
brother will die soon, and I’ll sit up and nurse
him.”
* * * *
Dearß.—The trees in the jungleshere have
a peculiar fancy for having their roots half out of
the ground. The trunks at and near the ground
sometimes form themselves buttresses of the most
fantastic shape which wind sinuously among the
undergrowth, apparently roots, but quite indiffer-
ent about getting underground. Walking along a
timber-track through the bush the other night I
trod on a huge snake. Jumped wildly into space.
Struck a match —although bright moonlight in the
clearings it was dark in the jungle—and cautiously
crept back to find the snake was a tree-root on top
of the ground as usual. Half-an-hour afterwards
trod on another “ sarpint.” No mistake this time
felt the brute move. Another match—another
root . ! Just before reaching the clearing trod on
a third, purposely this time, as I could dimly see
w ia*- was Just about full of this root business.
Holy Moses ! a carpet snake about 10 feet long !
He made a “ dinny-aiser ” at my leg, but fortu-
nately did not allow sufficiently for the extraordi-
nary rapidity of my exit into the clearing.— Tweed
-tvIVER.
* * * *
“Eller” : At a large poultry-farm, some
time ago, a clutoh of chickens were hatched, one
of which turned out to be half-fowl and half-duck.
It had feet and tail of duck ; rest of it was same
as a fowl. It could quack and crow at same time.
1! rom the first no other fowls would go near it.
* • * *
“Eller”: Can any reader give me a
remedy for stopping a horse’s teeth from coming
out. A friend of mine has a moke only four
years old, and every tooth in its head is loose.
About eight have fallen right out, showing no
decay at all. Have tried many so-called cures
■without success. If necessary, where can I get a
set of false teeth for a horse ?
• • • •
“ Tassy ” : Some years back writer was at
a railway job in Tasmania where a doctor was
employed to attend to the work-
men. Medico fancied himself as a
revolver-shot, as also did the travel-
bng-ganger and the writer, and we
used to have frfcquent matches, the
target being a small iron
disc placed on a stump at
the bottom of a small
hillock covered with but-
ton-grass clumps. One Sun-
day morning we were at
practice, but were in bad
orm, and the great majority
of the shots flew wide and
lodged in the button-grass.
After about 40 shots an ap-
parition suddenly arose from
the tussocks, demanding
“ What the ye’re firin’
at ? ” It was a navvy who
had been sleeping-off the
effects of a spree. Just
as the man rose the. doctor
fired and shot away the
. brim of the horny-
handed one’s hat. Then
ensued an exciting game
of hare and hound, Bolus
being hare; but some
whisky eventually fixed
matters up. But, curi-
ously enough,
soon af-
terwards
the afore-
mentioned
navvy lost
aneye through
a piece of steel
flying from a drill.
Next he fell over a cutting and broke about
eight bones ; and just afterwards he won .£750
from ‘Tatt.” Now, was that man a lucky one or
an unlucky ?
“Is there any evidence that these new
hotels are wanted?” inquired a rather puzzled
iasmanian bench lately when licences
for two new pubs, were demanded.
“Well,” desperately suggested the
learned gentleman, who appeared for
the applicants, “they would be very handy
in case of snakebite.”
*** ■ *
Copy of a bill received by a stockman
on Central Queensland station :
Mister Blank
Dr. to Donald Martingale
Saddler.
to akown rendur... ... 1 13 3
p.s.
you man jey kow if you doant
send this smawl amoun to
your truley, i’l put you to
a litle more expens you kow
i av send you the bil for
same three tims now you
kow your truley
John Blank.
p.s pleace send this smawl amoun to me return post
or i’l dam qick pul you for it you kow i av bil to
mete.
* * » *
“ W.M.F.” : Re black- trackers. What is
probably one of the finest bits of tracking ever
seen in Australia, if not in the world, was done
near Brewarrina, two years ago. The weather was
dry. Two swagmen looted a hut 60 miles from
town. Three days later the trackers—two pro-
fessionals—were on the spot, after 38 points of
rain had fallen. No white men, not even the
best bushmen, could see the sign of a footmark.
The darkies started in the morning ; next evening,
they had discovered the stuff up in four different
hollow trees, about a mile and a-half from Bre-
warrina.
* * * *
“ X ” : Last night my office companion, a
huge tarantula, was mute and motionless on the
wall as usual. Below, a red cockroach, over an
inch long, was slowly moving upwards, his long
feelers playing first one side then the other. Won-
dering how they would greet each other, I gently
touched the cockroach’s near-side feeler with a twig
and luckily gee-d him over straight for the spider.
Gradually the distance lessened until the long 3-
inch feelers swept gently over the tarantula’s out-
spread foreleg. The next moment they were on
the floor in a death embrace. Watched the tar-
antula bearing the apparently stupefied cockroach
home behind the lining of the wall. Have often
seen him catch flies, but did not think he would
tackle cockroaches.
“Bunker”: “Take up the
white man’s burden,” says Kipling.
Well, I met King Billy of Bungaboola
out-back t’other day—a civilised King
Billy, an educated King Billy, oh !
a wealthy King Billy—with a tray
buggy, a passable horse, and a seduc-
tive cattle-pup, “just travellin’.”
Something moved among the
packages on the buggy, and
out popped a little black
head with bright eyes
twinkling—a pretty
little aboriginal
two-year-old.
Gave the young-
ster 3d. for luck,
while Billy strut-
ted round pater-
nally. “Do you
like my child?”
“Yes; a fine
child, Billy.’’
“That is my
younger, sir;
here is my elder
child’’—and he
dragged the
blanket off a five-
year-old half-
caste. “But
Billy,” I remon-
strated ; “ that
youngster’s yellow ,” —and I looked in perplexity
to where Mrs. Billy was standing with gleam-
ing teeth, an indubitable black-gin. “Alas!
yes, sir,” said Billy, sadly, “ I had the misfortune
to marry a widow / ”
* » * •
Dear Bulletin. —An incident as to clear-
ing-out of stores from a flour-mill at Molteno,
South Africa, by General Gatacre’s troops, was
reported in the London Daily Mail, of sth
December last, in the following form, viz.:—
Sterkstroom, 29th November, 6 p.m.—Our patrols are
in touch with the enemy. There has been no forward
movement on the part of the Boers, a number of whom
have been seen to the north of Molteno. A very large
quantity of flour and wheat at the mills at Molteno, in
danger of being commandeered by the Boers, was safely
taken out to-day by General Gatacre’s troops. The Irish
Rifles and the Berkshires went out early, and ran the
stock in five trains very smartly into camp.
About six weeks later (January 12th), the same
incident appears to be reported in the Melbourne
Argus, and other “leading dailies” here, in the
form of a cablegram just received from London :
London, January' ll.—Reports received from Sterks-
troom, the headquarters of Sir W. F. Gatacre, show that
constant touch is kept with the enern.y, and that the
General continues aotively engaged in reconnoitring
the Boer positions.
Information was brought to Sir W. F. Gatacre that the
Boers intended to raid Molteno, 22 miles north of
Sterkstroom, and that their object was to capture a large
quantity of flour stored in Molteno Flour Mills. Sir
Vv. F. Gatacre determined to be beforehand with the
enemy and despatched a strong force from Sterkstroom
for the purpose of rescuing the stores. The movement
was successfully carried out and the flour was brought in
safety to Sterkstroom.
What does it all mean ? —J.B.
* * * *
We have no native cats on the Tweed.
Poultry-raisers have only sparrow-hawks and
carpet-snakes to contend with. Occasionally, if a
gang of Hindu cane-thrashers are camped handy,
a mysterious leak will occur among the chookies.
It can, if noticed in time, be checked by the well-
timed- discharge of a blank-cartridge. Kanakas
'ire also fond of fowls, but never steal.
The little sparrow-hawks will call daily
for a chicken if they can get at the
motherless incubator-hatched broods.
But carpet-snakes are the worst
’ trouble, particularly in summer—
they lie almost dormant in the
“ A GAY GORDON .”
winter. A full-grown carpet-snake will swal-
low eight or ten chickens, and come back in a
few nights for another lot. He will also surround
a full-grown fowl, but usually comes to grief over
it, as, although he almost instantaneously throws
several strangling folds of his body around his
victim, the fowl manages to give two or three
squawks and flaps of its wings. Its mates, too,
are generally disturbed during the death struggle,
and the farmer or his wife comes round with candle
A QUIET CHRISTMAS DAY AT THE
FORTY-MILE (Q.). ,
“Peace on earth and good will towards men.”
and axe. A carpet-snake killed by me a few
nights ago, when cut open, disgorged a lot of
eggs, with two china nest-eggs among them !
* * * *
Harry Stockdale, re black-trackers :
The belief of the Queensland Police that in a reoent
oase one of their black-trackers deliberately put them on
a false scent because he was himself the culprit recalls
the long-past case in which Fanny Briggs, barmaid of a
bush hotel near Wiseman’s, was outraged and murdered
by black-trackers. When the girl was missed, the native
police followed the tracks of some naked feet to a briga-
low scrub, in which the body of the victim was ultimately
found. The corpse told its own tale, and the trackers
soon made it appear that the crime was the work of the
myall (or wild blackfellows), with the result that a large
party of these were attacked and 50 or 60 shot down.
Soon afterwards, however, the trackers, when mad-
drunk, so ill-used their gins that one of these
unfortunates told the white police-officer “All about
them fella bin kill-’era white Mary (white woman). Then
bin put-’em along-a scrub.’’ The strict questioning
which followed convinced the officer that his own men
had done the deed for which the unfortunate myalls had
paid the penalty. Another batch of black police was
brought upon the scene, and the murderers were dis-
armed and shot. It would be wise to remember, ere
placing too much reliance on native evidence in cases of
outrage upon women, that a pretty general, marriage-
custom amongst the aboriginals involves a carnival of
lust and violence by four of the intended husband’s male
friends prior to the handing over of the “ bride ” to his
keeping.
» * * •
Pigs are perhaps the most out-of-the-way
pest that ever were turned into a squatter’s plea
for rent-reduction, in N.S. W., anyhow. The sta-
tion, not a big one, is in the N. W. ; it was com-
plained half-a-dozen years back that it was over-
run by brutes which consisted mainly of bristle,
tusk, and grunt. Mobs of them are numerous
over a big area out there—as many a teamster
who has found creek waterholes polluted beyond
approach can swear to.
» * * *
H. J. M‘Cooey on the weary snake-
jumping problem :
Re snakes jumping (“Pelican,” 8., 30/12/99). livery
Australian schoolboy knows that the death-adder jumps
when tormented, and that it will follow its assailant a
chain, or even rpore, in a series of jumps, some of which
cover 6ft. and are very rapidly performed, until the
enemy (unless he, or it, be particularly quick and lively)
is overtaken and bitten—not “ stung,” mind. The “Q.
nigger” referred to by “ Pelican ” is not an authority on
snakes, except only in so far as they concern his melon-
shaped “bingee.” All venomous Australian snakes can,
and do, jump upwards and backwards into the air ; but
no other snake except Acanthophis (mtarctica can pro-
ceed forward in a series of jumps. Re speed of snakes.
I’m not too slow when a snake “ goes for me,” yet I, for
one, should be very sorry to have to depend upon
“ shanks’s pony ” to save me from an enraged brown,
black, or tiger snake down a dry-grassed incline with an
angle of even lOdeg.—not to speak of 15deg. or 20deg.
Supposing the distance to be 10 chains and the angle of
inclination to be lOdeg., I should consider myself sin-
gularly fortunate if I escaped with less than 10 bites.
Near Blayney, N.S. W., in 1887, I saw a smart young man
24 years old pursued, overtaken, and bitten, after a hard
run of about 80 links, by a superb tiger snake (Denisonia
superbus, Gunther), which he had quite unintentionally
cut in half with a scythe while mowing hay. In the
interests of science, I object to the tin-pot pretenders—
the jackals of science—who assert that our largest
venomous snakes, such as the brown, black, and tiger,
are incapable of overtaking an ordinary runner.
• • * •
“A.E.L.”: Sweet are the uses of advt.
While driving along Woodburn-Chatsworth road
(R. River) overtook an Indian arrayed in the
usual dirty calico head-gear, filthy shirt, and dun-
garee pants, across the seat of which appeared the
legend, in bold type, “Read the Freeman’s
Journal ! ” The thrifty Oriental had borrowed a
oalico poster from a friendly gum-tree to cover his
nakedness.
• * • *
A Townsville paper tells how Mr. Frank
Jardine, when residing at Somerset, C. York, went
across to the Barrier Reef and found there a small
ship’s cannon of curious antique make, also some
cases of Spanish silver and gold coin lodged in the
reef. These latter had become encrusted with
coral and cemented into a block. The Spaniard
has never received full credit for all he did in
opening up the coastways of Australia.
AT SANKEY’S PUB.
Rtood his bluey in the corner, and his patient, vinous eye
YVas the optio of a mourner who’s just watched his
mother die.
I have never seen one quicker
In disposing of a liquor,
Down his funnel like the flicker of a candle coursed the
beer,
And he thirsted like a fiend, and spread a superstitious
fear
Round the drought-beleaguered shanty,
Hoskin reckoned it was Dante
Back from all the realms infernal, squaring matters now
and here.
Still the simple, silent stranger took his drink, and paid
his tin,
And they whispered of a danger of his drowning from
within ;
But he stayed, a thirsty suitor,
Passing in his empty pewter,
Till the fusel-oil diluter said : “ This pub.’s run dry, I
think.”
Then the other rose, and damned him with a curse that
made us shrink.
“ That’s the second I ” cried he. “ Sankey,
Is there in this Land of Blanky
Any public that can give a man a — nice—long—drink ? ”
SILAS SNELL.


PEARLS
OF EVERY SORT AND DESCRIPTION
We wish TO BUY in Small or Large Parcels for Cash.
We also are BUYERS of Diamonds and every class of gem
(in the rough or cut).
r
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
. . VICE REGAL JEWELLERS . ■ .
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Oom Paul, it is solemnly alleged by the
unspeakable cable fiend, has taken to dressing bis
spies in kilts. The Mackruger’s gathering ?
Even the knife-grinder has the war-fever
on him these times. His old business yell is now
altered to “Any scissors, knives, or sivords to
grind to-day ? ”
Wherever the British flag floats there is
absolute freedom of thought and speech. The
following Vic. news item (one of very many)
comes in just here :
Merino, Wednesday.
The proprietor of a. large steam thrasher from the
Sandford district started out to-day. When engaging his
men all those having Boer sympathies were summarily
reiected, and he boldly announced that his machine
would sail out under British colours, with the Union Jack
floating at the engine-funnel. His exhibition of patriotism
was heartily cheered.
Query: How much boldness does it require to
hoist the British flag on a threshing machine m
a perfectly peaceful country ?
For Bilght, Inflammation, Granulation and
all affections of the eve use an infallible remedy. Hick-
son’s Celebrated Eye Water has for many years proved
its worth. Effectual when doctors fail. Perfectly harm-
less. Highest testimonials. Post free to any address,
2s. 6d. R. Hickson, Rockdale, N.S.W. Agents wanted.*
Arthurßusseil, American dentist, 8 Bourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations *
TO DARKEN GREY HATR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Hotel
Australia—^.
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
This Hotel has popularised hotel-living in Australia.
During our enervating summer, the cool and ele-
gant drawing rooms, the charmingly - arranged
dining room, the readiness and perfection of the
attendance, and the splendid appointments of the
Hotel throughout, prove a boon and blessing to
visitors. The Hotel is so loftily-built and situated
that residents sleep in a distinct atmosphere—a cool
light air, entirely free from the dust and impurity
of the city.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager
This is worthy of the “Arabian Nights.”
At a camp on a Tasmanian West Coast railway-
line recently, there was such a big razzle-dazzle on
that towards night the beer in all three shan-
ties ran-out. Early next morning, when
“ coppers be expected to be very
“hot,” shanty-keeper No. 1 filled an
empty barrel with water and left his cabin
for a few minutes, whereupon No. 2 took
the opportunity of sneaking the cask of
supposed beer, which he sold to No. 3
for £2. Then two navvies, cleaned-out
and suffering badly from drought,
watched their opportunity, got posses-
sion of the barrel and planted it to
await nightfall. They had, however, i
been observed by a Scotchman working
on an embankment close by ; and he, as
soon as it was dark, got possession o£
the barrel, and to avoid discovery rolled
it through a culvert about 200 feet long,
against a strong stream of water, emerging,
after half-an-hour’s labor, wet and panting,
but jubilant over his prize. Then he gathered
in his cronies to partake, and the disgust
and disappointment may be imagined when
out of the much-prized barrel flowed the first
pannikin of dirty water.
“Y.” ; Crude practical jokes and drink
are the joys of the far-back W.A. goldfield. Last
Christmas we celebrated in the only way possible
—in hot and muddy beer. Brown acquired his
load earlier than the rest and collapsed ; so he
went (or was taken) home and put to bed. Then
we hired the black man who sells pies to bury
Brown for ss. We told him Brown was dead, and
showed him the tent where the corpse lay breath-
ing heavily. Dead men and pies don’t mix well
together in most places, but little things like that
don’t trouble the wild, uncultured West. All that
afternoon the black pie-man dug and delved out
Brown’s grave under a hot sun, and then he went
to perform the simple obsequies, whereupon the
defunct woke up and smote him frequently. Then
we had more hot beer, and Brown chased the
black pie-man into the bush, and we laughed the
cracked, lost-soul laugh peculiar to the West. After
that the sun went down, and all the world was
dark and smothery like a hot black stove-lid in
Gehenna.
* * * *
“Blister”: Emus have a good big wide
taste, embracing everything solid or fluid.
Writer took two to England a few years ago in
s.s. Gulf of Genoa, and one morning they got
away with three sets of oilskins hung up near their
pen. Broke loose next day and absorbed two
buckets of good green paint—wanted fresh coats
for their stomachs maybe; anyhow, they were
none the worse.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: Notice that some people are
still agitating for rabbit-proof fences —one of the
greatest fallacies existent. But for these fences,
at the present time, there wouldn’t be a rabbit in
the dried-out Western districts. They would
travel north to the Gulf country, where, if they
didn’t voluntarily disappear like the rats, they
could be easily cornered and exterminated. Rab-
bits always travel north, and some western squat-
ters who have noticed this are opening their fences
to let them out of the paddocks !
“ Malle” : Our Ah Cow at
Bingellie was a single Chow.
We hinted that a man possess-
ed of a commodious residence
such as his was simply wasting
without a wife, but Ah Cow
repudiated this with scorn,
saying, “No feah—too muchee
talkee; p’laps get um dlunk.”
To test him, we rigged up a
local imp of darkness, one Jim,
and a small mate of Jim’s, in
female clothes, and they hap-
pened along late in the after-
noon and inquired the way to
Albury. Finding they had no
menfolk, John became interest-
ed and hospitable : “Wha’ fo’
you go Albelly ? W elly long
way Albelly. You come insi.
You have cup-a-tea? Where
you stay to-ni’ ? ” After a coy
refusal, the damsels walked in,
and the billy was set boiling.
Ah Cow didn’t take kindly to
Jim, but to the other he re-
marked, “You welly ni’ gal;
liowoloyou?” Ti en he pin-
ched her cheeks, reiterating his
admiration, and wound up with
a proposal that she should stay
there, and he’d mally her —on
some future occasion. He was
proceeding to put Jim outside
to make for ‘ 1 Albelly ” alone,
when two large blackfellows
rescued the distressed damsels
and chased the amorous hea-
then off the premises. Soon
after the soul-blighted Ah Cow
discovered Jim’s connection
with the fake and wanted to
fight. Jim was about 17, strong
and supple, and had learnt all
that a pretty good district
boxer could teach him, but he
wanted no hostilities. The ag-
gressive celestial insisted, rush-
ed, and was promptly downed.
Somewhat surprised, lieessayed
another go with like results.
This was too much. He bolted to an outhouse,
brought a long-handled shovel and an adze, and
offered to continue the discussion thus : “ Me no
savee fightem you countly fashion; me takem
shovel, you takem adze, fightem my countly
fashen.” But Jim declined to argue on these
terms, and quitted the spot in haste. It was a
glorious victory for Ah Cow, and he was so in-
flated over it that he raised the price of cabbagee
50 per cent, on the spot.
Dear Bulletin. Heard two sundowners
seated on the verandah of a, pub near Orange con-
versing about the war. This was the opinion of
one of them: “ W’y don’t they finish ’em orf ? W’y
’cos they wellcawn’t. The beggars is that ob-
stinate. W’y Gawd blime, when Lord Methuen’s
push give ’em such L in the trenches do you think
the beggars would give way? Not much! W’y
even when they was dead, killed by this Lydd-
ite, they wouldn’t fall, the English had to push
their corpses over. They’re such obstmet’
beggars those Boers, they’ll stand upright when
they are well dead. ” Then this military genius
was interrupted by beer.
THE FATHERLY SMALL BOY.
LITTLE BILLY (patronisingly): “Now, then, mister, he’s ready, but I’ll give him a run round to quiet him afore
you gets on him.”
From all the Australian warriors in South
Africa comes the same sad moan, per private
letters to their relatives and friends. They don’t
get enough meat to keep them warm. Probably,
they are better off for tucker than the average
Boer, and will have to look cheerful on a 50 per
cent, reduction anon, but meanwhile they feel the
inconvenience of fighting for Hingland with ‘ ‘ rats
inside,” and regret to find that Gflory doesn’t
spell three square meals a day.
“ LADYSMITH" TAKEN.
AS PER UABLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They blew us up with dynamite,
They rained down shells with hades filled,
It was a weary awful fight—
And one of us was nearly killed.
The enemy were millions strong
And were by hopes of murder thri’led ;
We slaughtered them the whole day long—
But one of us was nearly killed.
We charged up hills ’mid deadly rain
(The stoutest heart it would have chilled),
We slaughtered all of them again—
And one of us was nearly killed.
The bullets flew so very thick
That like a plough the ground they filled ;
We slew the shooters very quick—
Yet one of us was nearly killed.
A bullet struck one hero’s side.
And through his coat a hole it drilled ;
And now we point to him with pride—
He was the one so nearly killed.
BINDYL.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Hardcase : Fairly funny, but would require too
much patching-up.... Lyre : “Coolie” hasn’t quality
enough... .Alex. K. : Not badly told, but you greatly lack
verse-5ki11.... Fleetwood : Prose-sketch good, but too
long-winded ; may condense. Verse some descriptive
power, but metrically very faulty....E.W.D. : Too ver-
bose and didactic for “ 8.”... .Harold : The alteration
simply makes the sonnet no sonnet. Rather artificial and
ambiguous, anyhow... .Valhalla : ‘ Horse-joke ” received
with horse-laughter....Yamstick : Impossible metre....
J.G. : Romantic youth—forbear 1....F.H.G. : Platinum :
nearly 21 ; gold, a little over 19— never 20... .W.A.R. :
No ; the Prussians didn’t arrive till the fighting was
practically over, and their loss was comparatively slight.
Xerxes :No strength of handling.... Leo de B. : Too
trifling... .Warrigal : Such gags were common with the
ancient Greeks. F’rinstance :—“ If I say I lie, when Ido
lie —then Ido not lie—but it I say I lie, when Ido not lie-
then Ido 1ie.”... .Susan B. : Pretty and promising, but
not yet up to the mark... .Darby : Can’t tell till we see it.
.... Sigma : Don’t remember it. What was the title ?
0 P.O. (Stanmore) : “ Jack of Hearts ” received, with
thanks M.D. (Sydney): “Songs to M.” pretty, but
commonplace Two Grateful Australians : Many thanks
for letter Fred J.L. : Too long for merit That easy
long metre that goes like the canter of a long-backed
horse on a smooth road grows wearisome B.M.P. :
With regard to your question as to “what sort of
unhinged maniac ” that lady is, we will ask he.' after
you have shown no a hinged maniac Cornstalk : Many
thanks A.H. : Consider yourself let down lightly.....
Cecil Poole: The Bulletin has advocated that idea in
leading articles for the last two years, and it was the first
Australian paper to do so. So it isn’t exactly your own
bright fresh inspiration Quicksilver: Of course The
Bulletin “ lacks discretion.” But if, instead of taking
your facts from newspaper articles, written in haste by men
who haven’t time to investigate much, you read “Theal’s
History of South Africa ” (5 vols.) right through, you might
find that the story has sides you never heard of before
The Lyre : There is lots of energy about you—so here
goes:
GN. (Broken Hill) : Will print... .Curious :“ A Voice
from the Bush ” was written by Mowbray Morns, now
editor of Macmillan’s Magazine J.W.D. (Fiji): Paro-
dies are a sad form of literature H.R.H. : Dear friend,
if you read something of history (not the scrambling
kind written in daily papers by sensation-mongers as
ignorant as yourself) you would find you were up the
wrong tree—on the top branch, too R.E.D.: Turkish
harem yam far off our beat.... Dom Kerr: Old subject.
Wants newer treatment... .The Man Who Won t Go :
Your verses make us almost wish you had gone... .Masson
(or something); You don’t state which lunatic asylum
you write from.... Het T. : All right. Though we’ve no
time to “ coach” everybody, we’ve no wish to give per-
sonal offence Jingo : Bulletin doesn’t credit the state-
ment Claypan: “No one who lives by music should
be in the position of critic of his fellow-musicians.” True
in the main ; but in the case referred to the critic warn t
a professional musician, and his critique was a wholesome
corrective to afulsome“boom.”.. Country' Girl: Can’t recall
par. of “ three months ago ; ” so don’t know what you re
driving at Riley; Lacks force and finish A.R.H. :
Bones of a good sketch, but you haven’t put flesh enough
on’em Het T. : “ Canker ” lacks terseness and point,
though it ends rather we 11.... Milky W. : “ Clare,” too
long, and lean, and limpy Elizabeth R. :No literary
gift Australie: “List, and give ear unto my cry!
Not a list! Neither rhyme, metre, sense, nor syntax !....
RED.: Pretty well-written, but rather too full-flavored.
.. ..C.R.-J.: “Tea ” may do. Other, hardly strong enough
for its inches... Luke: Fire away, Luke. We can stand it. ..
A.B.C. : “Wouldn’t you?” has some good lines, but
metre dreadfully irregular Crosbys : Hardly good
enough. Bindyi : Will print “Colossaeuui.” L.P.Q.
C • Will use “ Prayer.”....Tephi: But then, for one
The Late A. G. TAYLOR, ex-M.L.A. for
Mudgee (N.S.W.).
thing, you never saw in The Bulletin’s columns the
statement you allege E O.D. (Richmond) : Thanks
for letter Fogged (Rockhampton) : Give it up.....
Leontine : There is just one reason why we don’t publish
your reply to “Constance Clyde.” It isn’t interesting.
The other yarn was Naturalised Britisher: True, but
not new Salt Bush: You are a sanguine individual.
G.T.M. : Have touched-up yarn. Will print
Mero : A hopelessly unprintable collection B.M. :
Sketch unsuitable H.W.C. : You profess to be an im-
Serialist, but when you damn your own cause with poetry
ke this you will lead other jingoes to think you a Boer
emissary in disguise:
Z.Y.X. : Too preachy- for Bulletin—though the
philosophy is sound, as far as it goes... .Irene: Sorry it has
no skill or merit. You are trying to fly before your
wings are grown.... Edith F. F. : Wishy-washy and con-
ventional G.N. : Not amiss Steve O’H.: Rather
crude, but we may turn it up for print Sacro : A pure
invention, prompted by personal malice. Also, both
Swinburne and Watson—and greater men than either—
have occasionally dropped into very inferior w0rk.....
CJ.H.R. : Not very funny A Lover of Justice : Requires
to be supported by newspaper report or other evidence.
Pan : Good verse spoiled by occasional crippled lines.
".’..Crow-eater: The “New English language” hasn’t
taken root in Australia yet, and needs too much explana-
tion.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
S.B.Q. : Sketches apparently copies. Would require to
see some original work before giving opinion Gobung :
Will print snake-yarn Brummy: Unusable H.W.C. :
Lacks novelty.
TO THE STREET-BRED JINGO.
You blatant, street-bred braggart, lay your ears back for
Yowbhfnk’you go to Heaven, all others go to Hell;
You shriek about your valor and about the things you do,
And the men who go and do them laugh in their sleeves
at you.
Your Jingoistic Kipling, he’s skiting for you yet;
He writes your Jingo screamers and he writes Lest we
Your great and vasty Empire that you blow so much
Is mostly dirty heathen with its shirt-tail hanging out.
You civilise with bibles and you civilise with shot,
And the heathen that you can’t convert you blow them
. all to pot. , . ,
You hold a wondrous Empire of water, men and sand,
But beware that Empire creeps out from underneath your
hand.
He’s an absent-minded beggar ;
But he won’t forget to pay
For the needs of another in khakki,
Whose gone to where Boers hold sway.
He’s an absent-minded beggar
And (but its rather hard to say)
He might have a son whose beastly hard luck,
Decreed that he should stay.


CHARLTON, Thursday-
•‘AiTjaYitvßoer "League has been formed
locally, with a present membership of 60.
The league has for its avowed object the
boycotting of business firms and others of
nro-Boer sympathies', whose public utter-
ances on the South African trouble have
given great offence to the loyalist com mu-’
n itv. In the case of a well known publp*
(can the members of the league have pledged
themselves to forfeit a sum of 5/ every tune
! they are found in hfe hotel.
Analysis showed that 67 out of 166 Vmtonan |;
wines contained salicylic acid in amounts varying E
from Ito 6 grains per reputed quart. Mr. Wu- |
kinson had nis samples submitted separately to j
two export wine-tasters, and their reports were |
almost identical They held that out of 51 wines
in the port group 18 were unsound, sour or unfit j
for consumption, find 17 out of the remaining 115 i.
Victorian wines were in the same condition. In
other words, this examination shows that, although J
over 40 per cent, of Victorian wines are doctored f.
with preservatives injurious to the consumer, 21 <
per cent, of the total would be rejected as unfit for,j-
consumption by experts who know their business. •;
\o $• Nfw*.
\ Co*)<MLi)»)et)ir
Wi«?e, rvj’iqVf^
b J (foi fod yroruM. ~&c
/-ft tcU aM
UJiMOnKfiL
W^t
7 A a
/fere, J>M 7** > / *•*s**’
y&T'a' Wi7you'f~' A <Z7'ip/<r
\ioirf~ i/fe 'fdrfer/r.
2* j T- L- ; 'you.J>\y
fpe rfe 'fiVe/o'b wfrit y*<*
Conpe OicT Jp
xnd SPetfd H~
rfe- Jofa 6“//
/Krhjs See,
.
V <s% VI c °
-A c „S.° S ‘-£* .»<!?
v
° K /l'V>
IS-® ❖ Ji'
v<v
V
Mr. M'Lean recently w
announced that he was not in favor of any Jr
material reduction in the yfiumber of roera- II
bers, ' The Premier ad-: 1
nits that- his opinions on the question have! \
undergone a change, but denies that e
transformation has only come about since. !
his acceptance of office. He states .that,
there was time when he thought that a-
Parliament of half the present num er o j
members would amply fulfil the require- I
rofents of the State, but niter spending many I
years in tl>e Assembly he has arrived at the I
conclusion that any materia) reduction is I
undesirable .
v Mefiy kbf^,
jKe Will
"Ts "fi^ e 117
Vicifty "''to
1_ of *)<£_''
X\z.^Gp(^ or u
10
irij,}; \S
advancement of science.
MEETING OF THE AUSTRALASIAN'
ASSOC IA f lON. 14 rm.,, -Rduca-
Mrs. Jas. Stirling tiJe Evolu*
tinn wSnwa. tobe V J a^! e *£*
•/itfß. MURRAY, M.L.A.’S, RECENT
XT*TERANCE.
WARRNAMBOOL, Tuesday.
The mayor, of Warrnambool, iu response
to "a numerously-signed petition, has con-
rveried a public meeting for Friday evening
next “to enable the people of Warrnam-
bool and district to protest against and re-
pudiate the disloyal utterances of Mr J.
Murray, M.L.A., in Parliament «and the Bth
inst,”
Htk y !s u^ \
/ :— Voo VAi,-tXCourse of iwftucfloo?
y J n --Well ,170^ Voice;
r e Jir?rfoe3 noy P<4 life
jou ''to rye " Cjoi QueeyV
A somewhat delicate question was raised by Mr.
Moule. Under the Constitution Act, if a member
be sworn in as a Cabinet- Minister he becomes an(
Executive Councillor, and as such is entitled to a’
free railway pass for life. He may remain in a
Government only five minutes, but once a member
of the Executive the fiction is preserved of retain-
ing him in that position in perpetuity unless be
resign.
%\tier If\r) K WeVL
\\)U.YY'\ek. W<37«rfr
fa or*) of-fice >T5
I
a^N^oW
/
IN AND AROUND MELBOURNE.


RELATIVE SIZES OF THINGS IN AUSTRALIA JUST NOW.


Publications.
“Open-Air Treatment~of Con-
sumption,”
By DR. ALFRED NEALE.
Turner and Henderson, Sydney. Post, Is. 7d
Books. T=t r»r>lrg
P ol pu E ®UCATOR— £S for £1 6s. The Home
• » a "’ ’’'Crated, £2 10s. for £l. The New E -
qmre \V .thin, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. 6d. Charnbers’
r" alf W Calf ' l,p t °- f,ate efJitiotl > 10 vofc.
im/lt I hit* , ‘ e Hlst0 '-.V of Australian Bushrang-
in,, Is 3d I ha\e three very choice books, illustrated
Can only be procured from me by post, Is 6d each All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper A *
R.W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
lO5 Castlereagh streec, S.tdnev.
PHOTOS FSOMITFi:
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Ca.alouue, ss. Carefully selected assortments, 15s.
255. and 40s. money order or London draft.
R. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES
PARIS, FRANCE.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing-Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
illustr a ted
Address, PRIVATE,
\\7 IT It numerous anatomical
TT colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of hook, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
m
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
1201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
II
ODCrAOA’A
Tales of Medical Students.
By Pr. Hodoson, of Sydney. Just Issued.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, 3s. 6d. Post Free, 4s.
Wholesale Agents : Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
READ
PHIL MAY’S WINTER ANNUAL
lBB9.
A MARVELLOUS SHILLING’S WORTH.
Important Features : Numerous Full-page and Small
Illustrations, by Phil Mat and other artists. Ten
stories by the best leading authors of the day.
The Cheapest and Best Number yet Published.
Order at once of your Bookseller and Newsagent. W.
THACKER & CO., Publishers, London.
n
FRENCH •
NOVELS
translated into English
Genuine Edition.
Post Free, 1 3, 2/-, and
3/- each.
Madame PANZA,
Box 913,
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
m
nm
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/h each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
SOIn. long, ii/fi. all real hale.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
• ®orttcd up, 2/ fi per oz.
We ore the elieapeStlo
trolla for all Hair Work.
Send Color of llajr.
W. H. Wigzgll,
110 W i l.i,t aii Street,
eotoer of Palmer-street.
- SYI'NKY.
Cable Tram will atop at Door.
Send stamps for fill) Price List
rrappt attention given to Go mi try Order®
n
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPEDIA.
If nature lias not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers’ Encyclopaedia wll supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. Y«»u can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gats and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, nersonal appearance, cure tor bashtulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bite in prose »nd poetry
that you can find dailv use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps. 2d ox ra)
will bring you the hook by mail, post free, and inei enially
happiness with one you love. Anglo-Ameutcan Publishing
to., Commercial Chambers, Sydney. fJ.te.W. Mention thia
paper when writing;
" DOW JUDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
THE
PLUM
m
Price SING LB RAZOR, ]os. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. Cd. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
J‘ l -M-"3ESZUEIIIXr, 680 GEORGE ST., g’vnivnn'v
The Australian poms’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Tn^hfchTs^elspecfal I Poles' 1 -^ 1 USUaI is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
u R a plfj 0 " °l P"°P 0 . rti ° n of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness. uveimooa.
Board of Directors :
„ Hon- Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. OARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.Q.
Accumulated Funds exceed £ 1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £218,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Write for Special Prospectus.] OEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE
Xioxidoxi,
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
F RA-KTIC JARVIS
i"H 0 A a ®K , ye ) arS in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old count™
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes Agency ?ermZ*
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N-S- WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretari' of Mines) Bligh-street SVDNPV
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & 00., Queen-street, BRISBANE. g * SYDNEY -
Victoria— JOSEPH WooLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— o. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
NOT A GUESSING COMPETITION.
sa
A RECORD.—We sold
6000 of our celebrated
Watch and Chainat6/6
in 13 months,and now
to universally adver-
tise our famous 4s 6d
Paraguayan 14kt. Gold
Chains to every" pur-
chaser of one (either
gent.’s or ladies), we
will present on pay-
ment of 6s extra the
RAILWAY WATCH,
as illustrated, guaran-
teed, timed to closest
accuracy. It is a
JEWELLED FULL-DAY PERFECT LEVER MOVE-
MENT SHORT WIND WATCH, wound and hands set
from stem, strong and reliable, same as used on the rail-
ways of Great Britain. Gent.’s are medium size, and
ladies a perfect little gem. They give entire satisfaction,
that is why we send them out on appro., and if returned
within 14 days, money is refunded. These are unprece-
dented terms. We make this extraordinary offer merely
to circulate our PRICE LIST, and make ourselves talked
about. The Watch and Chain is sent registered (any
colony) on receipt of 10s 6d and 6d for postage.
No. 1, Paraguayan solid gold gilt Cuff Links, and your
initials engraved on each pair, 2s.
No. 8, Heavy sterling silver, do., do., do., 3s 6d.
No. 2, Paraguayan solid gold gilt Name Brooches, any
name handsomely engraved, Is 6d.
No. 3, Sterling silver, do., do., do., 2s.
No. 6, Real gold fronts, marvel of cheapness, 4s 6d.
No. 4, The latest Pocket Knives, German silver handle,
stronger, lighter and less bulky than the ordinary
handles, best quality “Eye Witness,” with your fuil
name, 3s.
(Queensland only, 4d extra for postage).
H. POTIER & CO.,
IMPORTERS, 24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
FOREIG-1V STAMPS
nm
urmm
sv\
tm
{mmm
uaaaaiMl
QETS i Soudan (Camee) Is; 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautemala(Bird)
Is; 6 Newfoundland (new issue),
Ib 6d ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s 6d; 12 Luxemburg-, Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s 6d ; 8 Bosnia, 6d ;
60 Spain, 2s. Packets 30 different,
6d ; 60, Is ; 100, 2s 6d ; 150, ss.
Remit by P. 0.0. P.N. Illus. catalogues of albums and
stamps post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES B
DONNE, 346 Ltle Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
LADIES !
, ’ , " lIJ - Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 6s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of every description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN, .
New South Wales . .
Barbers’ Supply House
680-2 ffeorge-st.,
SYDN EY.
n
E. V.FINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants db Importers.
Our Specialities are— Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapings, Matting
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only)
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Cheap, Reliable Levers. Unrivalled, 20s ;
Silver, 35s ; Hunting, £2. London Kevless Lever,
25s : Silver, £2 2s : Hunters, £2 10s.
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double), £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold, £6 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, l?g 6d, 16s, 20a.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
LORD WATCH
JZP
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Ivy Leaf and Heart Motto,
12s 6d ; Silver, is 6d.
15c. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies, with
Ivy Leaves, 255. Very cheap.
Latest Style, Solid Gold, Good Luck
Brooch, 10s 6d. 15c. Gold, 21s.
Gold Post Oard Oharm, Penny
Stamp, 10s ; Silver Gilt, 6s 6d.
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. SAUNDERS,
Gold Heart Links, 12s 6d
15c., 255. Silver, 3s 6<L
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, 20s, 26e; 16c. Gold,
355, £2. Monogram on, 28 6d
extra. Solid Silver, 6s.
T.inks, 9c. Gold, 215.; 160.
Gold, 35s and £2. Silver,
4s 6d.
Other Style, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 16s, 20s.
Silver, 2s 6d, 3s.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Heart, 12« 6d.
9c. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and
Heart, 10s. Special value.
A. SAUNDERS.
16c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Double-cut Diamonc
£2. Splendid value.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Century Brooch, 15s. Latest Rage.
A. SAUNDERS.
16c. Gold 2-Bar Scroll, Diamonds and Sapphires
or Rubies, £2 10s. Very strong.
A. SAUNDERS’
Pearl Set Bird, 8 Bells and Chain Gold
Brooch, 13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 160. Gold.
Diamonds, £2 10s and £B.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Similar Pattern, 255.
Pure Diamond Hand
Ring*.
16c., 30s ; 18c., £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s ;
15c., 20s, 25s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d; 15c. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £6;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £los, £l2 10s,
£l5, £2O.
Gold Bracelet, 4 Opals and Pearls, very neat, £2 l6s.
O-o
Gold Bracelet, Opal and Rubies, £2 10s.
LATEST LADIES’ RAGE.
Registered “Gold Sword” and Spray Brooch, 13 Pearls,
Ruby, or Sapphire, and Diamond, 265.
Without Diamond, 22s 6d. 16c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
15c. Gold Wish-Bone and Forget-me-
Nots, only 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
«s_
A. SAUNDERS’
Lucky Wish Bone and Arrow Gold
Brooch, 12s 6d; Ivy Leaf, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS. New Century Gold Brooch,
Diamonds and Pearls, 20s.
Gold Brooch, 7 Upals, 14 Pearls, 85s.
Bracelets to match, £2 16s.
A. SAUNDERS. Registered 9c. Gold Amethyst
Brooch, 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
KINDLY
CALL.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting 1 Keyless, 255, 30s, £2
£2 108, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
TRY
US.
Gold Envelope
Twopenny Stamp
• Charm.
Any Name, 12s 6d. i
Silver Gilt, 6s 6d.
Solid Gold Charm
that charms, 10s 6d
Procured only at
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires, or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, £3 and £4.
Send for Size Card.
m 3
mm
18s. Solid Gold, extra
strong- and heavy, one
or three diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
mm
e c el
2-Bar Gold Brooch, Red Stones and Pearls, 20s.
Gold Good Luck Bells.
4s 6d. 3s 6d. 2s 6d.
A. SAUADERS,
UEUGrH— CLASS LEA.DIKT Gr- JEWELLER, & «tt .~vnni=t
—DISPLAY OF PRESENTS IS A PANORAMA OF I owfi iim rcc
015 Gteorgo-Btreot (NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYDMEY.


MlalflMSa
Taught by Correspondence.
_ bas s \,l2ess A certalN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
School of Arts*
Svdney.
TESTIMONIALS.
Mr. A. H. Brown, Constitution Hill, Tas. — “History
was always my dread in exams., but by your System I
have just gained 92 per cent, of the possible in it. With
vour System no one need fear the examiners.”
Mr. R. Hutchins, Hunter-street, Sydney.—“ It is of
inestimable value to those about to matriculate, and to
civil service candidates. It will always repay a hundred-
fold the small fee invested.”
Good Things.
The Christmas issue of The Bulletin is good.
Likewise, good is MINERVA TONIC. The first
aims at instruction and amusement. The second
will assuredly rebuild your wasted constitution,
and prolong your life.
MINERVA TONIC is a phosphorised iron
syrup combined with certain rare restoratives.
It will promote sleep, create a good appetite,
provide energy, and bring back health and con-
fidence.
MINERVA TONIC is cordially recommended
by Mr. Luekham, Bulletin office, as well as
by thousands of men and women in the leading
business and social circles of the country.
A 3 a Tonic, it is absolutely unique, and, as
a result, the testimonials given in its favor are
unique also. The British Lancet, the greatest
medical authority in the world, openly ap-
proves of MINERVA, and thereby recommends
it.
On sale by all chemists throughout Aus-
tralia.*
"I'll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (undercover)
to any partof Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.,
Price, 10s. (id.
Sole Agents:
<3F
\
The Result .
Craig & Ait ken, 680-632 George- st„ Sydney
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
RoW’6 €njbrocatioi?
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joinus in MAN' and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Cnjbrocatioo-
Dear Sir.— Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
Fitt-street, Sydney.
RELIABLE FURNITURE!
CARPETS, BEDSTEADS AND BEDDING
AND WHERE TO GET IT.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
CORNER GEORGE AND LIVERPOOL STREETS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE,
in Tapestry and Plush, Couch, Pair Easy
Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for .£3 10s.
50 others, 5, 10, to 20 guineas,
At HALL’S.
DINING-BOOM SUITE,
Very Strong, all Spring-seated and Padded-
Back Chairs, 6 guineas.
20 others, 7, 12, and 20 guineas,
at HALL’S.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Colour,
Wardrobe, Plate-glass Door and Drawers ;
Duchesse Chest Drawers, with glass at-
tached ; Marble-top Washstand, Towel
Rail, and Cane Chair, 4>6 15s.
30 Bedroom Suites to select from.
Full Size HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Brass Rail, Double-wire Mattress, and
Sec Best Bedding, .£3 15s.
50 LATEST DESIGN BEDSTEADS
to select from at HALL’S.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE FURNISHERS, 561, 563, 565 and 567 GEORGE ST.
Leave Tram or ’Bus afc Livorpool-street for HALL’S.
Country Orders packed Free. New Illustrated Furnishing Guide Post Free.
Harry Franks,
VICKERY’S BUILDINGS,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I have the representation in Australasia of this
“ DEY REGISTER.
Used by Employers as a check on their Employees.
m
Call and see same at
above address, it is
well worth inspection ;
or write for particulars.
nm
I have the representation also
of the
“HAMILTON
CASH REGISTER.”
Certainly the CHEAPEST on the market,
and AS GOOD AS ANY out here.
If you are a Buyer of a CASK REGISTER,
I can SAVE you MONEY on your Purchase.
EVMANSON & CO., Block Arcade, Melbourne Agent.
rmm
111
A
a a
SPARKLING
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared with this
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Agents: BLAKEY & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 418 George Street, Sydney.
n
rnmmmmmm
<“ u,edwith “ mo<imn * ity ° fw “ te - r ° rj,ou ° gpeopi '’ s ‘ bo °'
half the quantity twice a day.
4 * THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
READ WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS ABOUT THEM.
Messrs E Row & Co.—With thanks for forwarding me a hottle of your Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and
consider them most excellent, and superior to many others that I have prev^ B ’f t " e ' Rl d
Port Adelaide, Oct. 30, 1886. Yours faithfully, Henry Charles Curtis, M.R.0.5., England.
CAUTION—Ask for
Row’s Dandelion Bittera
AND TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
SYDNEY.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
GAN OBTAIN
IT
BY USING
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6
Sole Makers—*. BEETHAM * SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Sleep When Work is Done.
During the late summer (1896) I passed several
weeks in a foreign city nearly 700 miles further
south than London. We had about ten days
intense heat, and for six nights when it was worst,
I do not think I slept as many hours altogether.
The resulting nervous collapse was simply awful.
My brain reeled and I could neither understand nor
do anything rightly. I walked, as the good Book
says, “in a vain show. ” What a blessed thing is
sleep ; how destructive, how killing to lose it.
In healthy sleep the nervous system is inactive
—more especially that of the brain and spinal cord.
The body lies quiet, the muscles relaxed, the pulse
slower than when we are awake, and the breathing
less frequent but deeper. Then nature —wise
keeper of the House of Life—proceeds to renew
the energies expended through the day. To tniss
this renewal, even in part, is to tread the edge of I
insanity and look into the mouth of death.
“Methought I heard a voice cry, ‘Sleep no |
more; Macbeth doth murder sleep!’” So said
Macbeth himself; but there is a power which
murders more sleep than ever did Duncan’s
assassin ; and to that Mrs. Beattie alludes when
she says of her daughter, “ She got no sleep.”
“ In May, 1891,” writes the lady, “my daughter
Letitia fell into a low, weak condition, and could
not get up her strength. She had no appetite,
and what little food she took gave her great pain
at the chest and side. She got no sleep at night,
and became very nervous and low spirited.
“ As time passed by she grew weaker and more
feeble, and we thought she would never get better.
A doctor attended her but none of his medicines
seemed to suit her case, and for two years she
continued to suffer.
“One day she read in a book about Mother
Seigel’s Curative Syrup and what it had done for
others. She got a bottle from Mr. Nicholls,
chemist, Donegal Place, and after taking it began
to improve, being able to eat, and her food
agreeing with her. After having used this medi-
cine a short time she was strong and well as ever,
and has since been in good health. For a long
time I myself suffered from weakness and indiges-
tion, and seeing what good Mother Seigel’s Syrup
had done I took it and was completely restored to
sound health, You may use this statement as
you like. (Signed) (Mrs.) Mary Beattie, 21,
trinity Square, Belfast, August 14th, 1896.”
“In the early part of 1894, ” writes another, “ I
began to suffer from indigestion. I had a poor
appetite, and all food gave me pain at my chest
and a gnawing feeling at my stomach. No
matter how light the food I took i had pain and
sick headache,
“For over a year I was tormented like this,
when Mr. John Weir, living in this place, told me
how he had been cured by Mother Seigel’s Syrup,
and recommended me to try it. I did so, and
soon all pain left me, and I have since enjoyed
good health. I know many persons residing in
this district who have often been benefited by
taking the same medicine. Often in my shop I
hear persons say what it has done for them. You
are at liberty to publish this letter. (Signed) Alex
Wilson, General Merchant, Castlewellan, New-
castle, Co. Down, Ireland, Augs*15th, 1896.”
Indigestion or dyspepsia destroys the power to
sleep by starving, and thus weakening the nervous
system. Indeed the whole body starves, and is
thrown into profound disorder. Food may be
taken into the stomach, but. as people constantly
say, “ It does no good. ” No ; but in a sense it
does harm. Fermented, soured, undigested it
develops poisons which act upon the system some-
what as a pestilence does upon a community,
flesh is lost, strength gives away to trembling
weakness, courage is supplanted by fear, and life
is dreary and desolate. That Mother Seigel s
Syrup stiould be able to cure a disease so common
and so terrible is reason for gratitude to us all.
For the healthy work and sleep.
A Common Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
< < j” .. .
“Yes, mother! It’s no use ! I’m going. I’m
sick to death of this. Just look at it. Drizzling
rain on a dull grey plain isn t anything cheerful,
Iis it ? ” ,, , «*
“ But Liz, what would you do J
“Oh mother, I’m all right.”
, “ You don’t know, Liz.” .
“ Yes ! I can take care of myself. There isn b
a man round here but knows chat.”
“ You haven’t wanted for anything, Liz ?
“ No ! but you have—and besides I want to go
out into the world, to live, and make lots of
money.” . , T • ,,
“ You might have married, Liz.
mother. I’ve had three glorious offers.
Keroseney Smith, who smells like a lamp-rag;
Jim Brown—drunk every other day ; and lom
Collins, who owes more money than he 11 make in
a thousand years.” _
“ But there was another, Liz ! ’
“ Dofi’t speak of that, mother ! He s gone. It
was my fault. I sent him away.”
“ But, Liz, I’m —your —mother, — and the two
were crying together ; one for the loss of her only
daughter —trim, neat littleLiz, who had brightened
the lonely bush hotel; the other for a youth-com-
panion, lost by pretended heartlessness and girl-
frivolity, now slaving somewhere in the red-dust
country of the West.
“Now-now, mother —it’s no use. Im goin —
and listen, mum. I’ll come again ; and when I
come, ’twill be with lots of money—and you and
I will live together, where there’s plenty of life
and go, and stacks of fun.”
So Liz made one of the white-faced crew on the
crest of the Westward Wave.
• . • *
“Liz!”
There was the clink of glasses and a rush of
oath-punctuated conversation; the glare of gas-
light on the sanded floor; the rattle of billiard-
balls ; the drunken guffaw ; and all that goes to
make a fashionable hotel in W. A.
The speaker looked keenly into the, girl’s face.
“ You ! When did you come ? ”
“ Just a minute, Harry. What’s your poison,
mister? And yours ? Two whiskies. Yours?
Soda-and-b.”
“ Who’s the favorite now, Liz ? ”
“-You —of course.”
The conventional inflection on the last syllable
told Harry that Liz had learned a lot since he had
last seen her, arid yet he couldn’t quite associate
the Liz of his remembrance with such a scene as
this.
“ A ’’—she looked in the till. “Take
it in there,” pointing to the office door.
“Oh, that’s all right! Keep the change.”
Liz shot a glance at him that satisfied the
watcher’s suspicion—now a certainty. The £5-
note went into her pocket, and the old comradely
Liz advanced to greet her former lover. They
shook hands and talked—with distrust on his
side, reserve on hers ; and a chill seemed to fall
on the memories of the past. To him it seemed
as if he were reading a stray leaf from an old, for-
gotten book. And she—she wondered what he
thought of her—seeing her there. She could ex-
plain it all—would he believe her?
Impossible. He knew the temptations of a bar-
maid’s life ; and as he walked home he called him-
self a fool for thinking Liz could be other than the
rest. All the way home one idea beat time to the
measure of his thoughts—“ I may as well ’
* * * *
There is a little house on Mounts Bay Road
where they lived together as man and wife for
just six weeks —glorious days to Liz, too drunk
with Love to mistrust her self-made God; too
blind to see the grim callousness that had crept
into his heart; and too dull to discern the gradual
repulsion that grew day by day and blossomed
into a hatred. “ With me ! ” he reasoned—“ then
with anybody else ! ” The end came when he left
for the goldfields without telling her—and Liz
went into the world again to earn her own living.
Money —and mother —and peace lay ahead ; and
she would reach all three.
• • • *
She came on board the. boat at Fremantle, a
helpless, shrivelled creature, thin-cheeked and
hollow-eyed. The few returning turned from her
in disgust, and even the more brutal found in the
pale, faded, red-eyed woman nothing worth wast-
ing civility on. Day after day till Cape Borda
was sighted she came on deck alone, and gazed
thoughtfully into the sea—debating the notion of
jumping overboard. The sea was honest, at any
rate. It was always cold and cruel. Men were
only cruel.
J * * * *
It was night when she came back, and she felt
like a stranger when she knocked at the door of
the hotel. Someone opened it, and she stepped
in. There were lights burning—and so late ! Her
mother always went to bed early. Instinctively
she guessed. Her hands went to her head and
she staggered into the room. The faces of the
neighbours sitting there died away in a red mist,
and through the mist gleamed a pale face, the face
of her mother.
“ She took to her bed a fortnight ago, ’ someone
whispered. “ But the doctor says it may be days
yet.”
Sobbing heartbrokenly, Liz fell on her knees
beside the bed, and someone whispered audibly,
“ Thank God ! ”
Vic.
L.M.D.


Jeremiah Lyon and Co., the sole proprie-
tors of the business hitherto carried on by Messrs.
Colley and Co., at London, Birmingham, and
Manchester, announce that the same] will now be.
conducted in their own name.
SORE EYES.
Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment—the uni-
versal remedy—over 50 years in use, still un-
rivalled. See testimonials. Sold everywhere, 2s.
per pot. Take no other.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian erems.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
TftE F/iVORITE
WHISKEY.
CEO.ROE&C?'? .
AUSTRALASIAN REPfiESOTffIfES
JOHN MEAGHER &C°
82 A PITT ST.
SYDNEY.
ASK
FOR
stin
y
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
mip m
fclff
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Countrj', conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
I3F" Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale*.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
POLITICAL
POINS
“C.”: The different “funds,” in Tas-
mania alone, are sufficient to stock an asylum ;
wid the “Beggar” atrocity hangs like a pall over
lhe land.
M.L.A. Sleath, in his recent bid fora seat
an N.B.W. Public Works Committee, was voted
E° r by seven Ministers of the Cow-shaking Cabinet,
but by only two other members of the Govt, party
in the House. Not often does a party hit its
Cabinet so squarely on the nose.
Dear Bulletin. — Sydney tea-man Inglis,
in a letter to the S. M. Herald, suggests that, as
>he term bush man refers in S. Africa to the miser-
# degraded black dwarfs styled Bosjesmans, the
N.S.W. “Bush Contingent” should be styled
Australian Rangers. What’s the matter with
Australian Bushrangers ? —Gun.
It is a pity that great Dutch military
organisation, the' “Beggars of the Sea,” which
•ought so desperately against the Spaniards a few
ienturies ago, isn’t on deck still to take a hand in
<he present war. A battle between the Absent-
Minded Beggars and the Beggars of the Sea would
oe a Homeric conflict, and a subject to gladden a
poets’ soul.
Maoriland Premier Seddon won’t be drawn
on the subject of defence. “As to how many
rifles we have or how much ammunition there is in
stock, I do not consider it a wise policy to disclose,
and I am not going to be forced into divulging the
information.” Which is probably about as much
as any one wants to know. When the supply is
so low that it isn’t safe to mention it, any in-
terested party can guess the rest.
“Tas.” : Those in the know say that Q.
Premier Philp will rush the first opportunity of
tiring Drake out of the Ministry. He has got
Drake out of the Assembly and buried him in the
Upper House. The fallen one has now no
Assembly seat to go back to, and no party to go
back to. Having blasted Drake’s character, lost
him his seat, and broken up his party, why should
Philp keep on buying Drake ? What has Drake
left to sell ?
London Standard, overjoyed by the folly
of Australia in sending men to fight the Boers,
desires this country to be represented in “the
regenerated British army.” If the regenerated
British army will pay privates 4s. 6d. a day, same
as the local contingents are paid, and feed them
on a scale of great magnificence, doubtless the
3ritish army can be recruited in Australia—just
as it could be recruited on the same terms among
/he impecunious or adventurous of Greece or Peru.
3ut the Standard’s dream of an Australian
Tommy Atkins, thankfully fighting the battles of
:he empire at a ha’penny an hour or thereabouts,
is merely a gay vagary of the Jingo imagination.
A lot of the charges made by-
interested or other parties against
the Boer Government are difficult
so verify at this distance, but when
they can be verified they seem to
rail through oftener than not. One
of them relates to the hideously
oppressive Transvaal tariff. The
latest figures which The Bulletin
can find (Statesman’s Yeak Book)
»et down the Transvaal’s im-
ports at about J 213,500,000, and
customs duties levied at less than
t 1,400,00 10J or 11 per
cent, all round. This looks heavy
enough, but Queensland, Victoria,
Tasmania, Westralia and Maori-
.and all oharge far heavier rates.
Four of them (Queensland,
Westralia, Tasmania and Maori-
land) levy 20 per cent; or more.
The Age, the high-tariff-and-20-
oer-centrduty organ of Vic-toria,
aasbeen especially bitter about
she iniquity of the Boer Govern-
anent’s or 11 per cent.—which
is like that paper’s usual ina-
oility to recognise the psychological
moment for taking refuge in a dry
spot.
A couple of months ago Sir
■John Gorst told the House of Com-
mons that “A Committee of the
London School Board estimates
r ,hat, at times when there is no
tpecial distress, 55,000 children, in
* state of hunger whichmakes it use-
less to attempt to teach them, are in the city of Lon-
don alone.” Bull is so busy redressing the griev-
ances of the people in Johannesburg that the cry
of the children passes almost unheeded. Yet
here is more pathos in the empty stomachs of
these 55,000 hungry mites than in all the woes and
alleged woes of all the gold-bugs in Africa.
People are shouting “Rule Britannia”
and “ God Save the Queen ” and. swearing that we
are living under the freest constitution beneath
the sun. Yet some insane individual suggests in
he; public press the re-enactment of Jimmy
Martin’s “Treason Felony Act.” Under that
direful piece of legislation a man in a country
;own (Goulburn) was prosecuted for not raising his
hat in a public-house bar when some intoxicated
iout called out “God save the Queen.” At the
srial the prosecution fell through because the
Grown Prosecutor could not find the copy of the
Act. It had been purloined.
Most of the useful unfinished measures of
the Turner Ministry have been thrown overboard
by its successors. At one recent sitting of Vic
Assembly the Coal Mines Bill, Abolition of
Usury Bill Old Age Pensions Bill, and Boilers
inspection Bill, were dropped in a heap. They
were all strongly democratic measures and each
One promised to a & reat want, but the Shiels-
M Bean Ministry hates difficult and intricate
matters.
N.S. W. members of Parliament perspired
freely during the enrolment of the second S
African Contingent. Humpbacked and bow-
legged volunteers who found a difficulty in getting
into the list rushed their Parliamentary represen-
tatives for a push on, and in view of future
elections the representatives interviewed persons
high m authority, and demanded and implored
that a more generous view should be taken of
their constituents. Some of them are said to have
been reasonably successful too.
Is it quite the correct thing that almost
the only industry directly subsidised by the O.
Government, viz., the sugar manufacture as
carried on m Central Mills, should be a very large
employer of alien labor. It was shown in the
Assembly the other day that the Mosman Central
Mill, to which it was proposed to vote £12,000.
had indented no less than 100 Japs., while the
Mulgrave Central Mill employed Japs, almost
exclusively The Govt, should make the grant
to Central Mills conditional on the employment of
white labor.
J . Harcourt Palmer, the pushful Great
Western (Tas.) railway boomster, is standing for
Parliament confessedly in the interests of his syn-
dicate. The man of the Gridiron Railway has an
eye to business and a shoreless sea of assurance.
He has decided to try for New Norfolk, the Tas-
manian Callan Park. He even asked the sitting
member, George Leatham the Silent, resign in
ms (Palmer’s) favor. Leatham’s rep.'v is unre-
corded, but it is feared that his reputation for
silence is no more. Even a hermit of 40 years’
standing m his cave would say something under
the circumstances.
Brisbane newspaper advertisement :
A p PLIOAT IO NS win be received at the Office of the
Sheriff, Supreme Court, up to the 31st January,
P?r?° ns v '? nin s t 0 undertake the duties of
EXECUTIONER and FLAGELLATOR ; salary, £125
don annUm " must accompany applica-
PHILIP PINNOOK, Sheriff.
Presumably, the testimonials are required to prove
that applicants are truly “ loyal.” No person who
’sn t sohd m his belief in the justice and advis-
ability of Boer-prodding expeditions is supposed
to get any kind of billet nowadays.
John Forrest is still talking loosely up and
down the east coast of Australia to the effect that
if the eastern provinces will agree to the insertion
m the Commonwealth Constitution of “the amend-
ments demanded by Westralia,” he will call
Parliament together and get the measure passed
lu for .Westralia to be an Original State of
the federation. Westralia never demanded these
or any other amendments—it was never consulted
And the Westralian Upper House not only
rejected the proposed amendments bodily, but
refused to sanction any negotiation with the other
provinces on the basis of these amendments. What
is the good of a big man shambling up and down
the East saying he is ready to call Parliament
together and get it to pass what it has already
rejected ?
EVE TEMPTING ADAM (up-to-date).
L ADY (alluringly): “ Come an ’ave a drink
along o’ me.”
Captain E. T. Miles, of Strahan (Tas.)
Marine Board contracts celebrity, publicly an-
nounces his candidature for a Hobart seat at the
forthcoming Assembly elections. Says he has a
complete (though rather long-delayed) reply to the
awful condemnation of the Parliamentary special
committee which last year forced his resignation
from the Braddon Ministry and from the House,
and brought Braddon down in a heap after him.
Present writer’s hero since boyhood has been a
bulldog-ant he once saw fighting a stone-crusher.
He now begins to think the stone-crusher was
perhaps struggling against odds that were heavier
than they looked.
Victorian Premier McShiels says that he
doesn’t see any necessity for reducing the dimen-
sions of the already overgrown State Parliaments
AT THE SUMMER CARAVANSARY.
“Aren't they beastly familiar !”
Yes, you'd never think they were married. ”
after the Federal Legislature has taken more than
a moiety of their work off their hands. As a bid
for office this will take some heating. The
McShiels Goverament says, in effect: “All other
leading politicians propose reducing the State
Parliaments, whereby you will lose your dignities
and your salaries. We are the only crowd who
promise, if retained in office, to preserve to you
your dignities and salaries. Therefore it is clearly
to the interest of one-half of you to support us. It
is also to the interests of the other half—the half
to be sacrificed might be either half.”
Hobart Mercury is easily first among
Australian dailies for frantic jingoism. It re-
printed Balfour’s well-remembered speech the
other day, and editorially proclaimed it as the very
last word to be said in justification of Britain’s
share in the war. The passage particularly
stressed in the Mercury man’s leader was—
If the Boers had altered the franchise law the war
would never have occurred.
A correspondent (W. A. Holman) described Bal-
four’s speech and the Mercury conclusions as
‘ ‘ ingenious sophistry. ” Then the Mercury raved
in a two-column leader about the little Eng-
lander’s unmitigated ignorance, disloyalty, &c.,
and reiterated the statement that there would
have been no war if the Boers had altered the
franchise, and added :
The war was inevitable, because the Boers had resolved
on it more than ten years ago, as their warlike prepara-
tions prove.
Holman is now waiting behind a log until the
Mercury editor goes to sleep again. Then he
will slip another letter under the office door, ask-
ing how an inevitable war could have been pre-
vented by any alteration of the franchise. After
that the Mercury editor will have an apoplectic
fit and other furniture.
Glassey, the one - time democrat and ex-
jeader of the Queensland Labor Party, is fast
going down-hill. If he isn’t offered a portfolio in
the Boodle Ministry very shortly there is no
gratitude in man or beast—especially beast. Here
is a bit from a recent speech of Glassey’s in the
House
Mr. Glassey seconded the resolution. He concurred to
the full with the sentiments expressed by Mr. Dickson
with regard to the splendid manner in which our volun-
teers had behaved and distinguished themselves. When
the news arrived he was sure the hearts of the people
greatly rejoiced. He agreed that the ramifications of the
fund should extend to every part of the colony. ... He
had written to the Courier, making the suggestion that
employers of labor and the heads of various departments
in the public service be requested to take action to
endeavor to procure one day’s pay from every person.
Those who had no employers might donate something
from their incomes. In cases where persons could not
spare a day’s pay in one amount the contribution might
be extended over several months.
This is a time when work is scarce and wages low.
If a movement like this starts, it will undoubtedly
be a brilliantly successful piece of blackmail, for
every workman who refuses to pinch his wife and
children by giving one-sixth of a week’s pay will
be liable to suspicion of the unutterable sin of
“pro-Boerism,” and that is now the shortest road
to the sack. The spectacle of Glassey, the one-
time worker, devising means for blackmailing
what was once his own class in the interests of the
capitalists of Johannesburg is a pathetic spectacle,
and if Glassey doesn’t get his reward there is no
thankfulness in man or beast or Boodle.
The theory that Britain’s unreadiness for
war proves that she didn’t contemplate making
war on the Transvaal if the demand that the
suffrage should be granted to-
aliens was not complied with,
is a very weak proposition at
best. The same argument
proves that the Greeks didn’t
make war on Turkey a few
years ago ; that France didn't
declare war against Prussia
in ’7O ; that neither the
United States nor Spain made
war last year, for they were
both lamentably unready ;
that Britain didn’t declare
war against Russia in the
Crimean days ; that Prussia
never dreamed of the Jena
campaign ; and a lot of other
similar things. Britain may
not have contemplated war,
but her unreadiness doesn’t
prove she didn’t.
Melbourne papers are
now satisfied that Australia
has nothing to fear from
Russia. Formerly, when the
jingo press had an Imperial-
istic axe to grind it yelled
“ Bear ! ” till it was hoarse,
and there were served up
every morning midnight
visions of hordesof Muscovites
swarming south, provisioned
with bags of tallow, and lust-
ing for loot. It was a cold
south-wind day when the Czar
was not prepared to throw a
million troops into Melbourne
and Sydney, scoop out the
banks, and depart with all
our gold, our household gods
and natural advantages. But
now when “ our defences ” are
scattered over far Africa, the
Russian is our dear brother,
the Jap is not to be thought
of seriously, we are out of the
reach of Germany, and the
Lord has delivered us from
the French, and from envy
hatred, and all uncharitable
ness.
Apparently the Lyne (N.S.W.) Ministry
intends to be largely a Public Works Ministry,
earning support by a liberal shovelling-out of
borrowed money. It has called for tenders,
among other things, for the Sydney-North Shore
bridge, and that will-o’-the-wisp of 30 years’
standing looks as if it might at last become a
reality. If Lyne proposed to pay for this largely-
unproductive work out of revenue, or even to
attach a sinking fund to the loan that would
ensure that the structure would be paid for before
it wore out, his idea would be most commendable;
but nothing even dimly resembling that has, so
far, been heard of.
Brisbane Telegraph still plugs away dis-
mally at its dismal little yarn that the Federal
referendum showed an anti-Federal majority in
Queensland. In its leading article on 28th De-
cember it got this remark off its narrow chest: —
The result was a vote nominally for the Bill, but the
voting against it represented 83 per cent, of the total
white population.
Now, if the vote against the Bill represented 83
per cent, of the total white population it must
have represented at least 75 per cent, of the total
population. Will the twaddlesome parochial
organ explain how it comes to pass that the vote
could have been even nominally for the Bill if the
vote against the Bill represented 83 per cent, of
the white population? How can less than a
quarter of the population form a nominal ma-
jority ?
More Melbourne Age :
What would be the fate of representative citizens of
Alsace who in another Franco-Prussian war should be-
have as the Schreiners, Hofmeyrs and Sauers have done?
If M. Ie Marquis de Galliffet were instructed to suppress
rebellion in the north of Cape Colony, would he not
use the very effective methods of repression he adopted
in Paris after the outbreak of the Commune, when he had
tens of thousands of non-combatants shot on suspicion in
cold blood ? Would a Skobeleff hesitate to let loose the
Boer-hating blacks on the country behind the Boer
fighting line?
For a paper of its wealth and standing, the Agb
is pitiably inaccurate in its history. The Pro-
visional Government certainly went through the
Communards with a long sword and a hard heart,,
but the “tens of thousands of non-combatants”
who were “shot on suspicion in cold blood,
is a piece of ignorance which would disgrace a
small school-boy.


By Appointment to
nm
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
'b
O
<$
FLUTES
V
©
PIANOS
w
■X
ORGANS
o
Gall
or
Write
for
Catalogues
AN JOS
\
<s
REMEMBER—
ALWAYS CHEAPER AND BETTER AT PALING’S.
(J
UMlTtjl
Established 1853,
W. N. & CO., Ltd., T!>€ importers of loStrGnjeijtS,
338 George Street, Sydney,
Brisbane and Newcastle.
iiiffiii
.
j£
I*4? :
r^clSW
rti
fypzvt*.
m
mmmM
/ k-1
mHTS photograph of the camel laden with typewriters on the goldfields of Westralia affords picturesque evideno
of the push and penetration of the Unitetl Typewriter and Supplies Co. Illustrated Catalogues posted on
application to any of the undermentioned addresses.
Upited Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
114 PITT ST., SYDNEY ; 362 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE ; BARRACK ST., PERTH, W.A.
Agencies— Queensland : Webster & Co., Brisbane; Adelaide: Reeves & Co., King William-street. Hobart:
Waloh & Sons. Launceston : Hedley-Button. Auckland : J. H. Oolwill, Queen-street. Dunedin : Hayward and
Garratt, Princes-st. Wellington : W. R. Whyte, 12 Featherstone-st. Christchurch :J. O. Barnard, Hereford-st
Just when (apropos the war, of course) ex-
cited jingo Australians are denouncing “ blanky
Irish” and blankier Germans for their alleged
war views, it is profitable to sort out the
heroes of Eureka Stockade —that uprising in de-
fence of British freedom and fair-play whereof
Australians are so proud. There are 21 names on
the monument at Ballarat. Of these 10 have
“Ireland” after them; three others of the men
were Germans, one was a Canadian Frenchman.
Only four were from England or Scotland.
A small Collins-street (Melb.) hotel-bar
opened a list for the Absent-Minded Beggar,
and a well-known pastoralist, who had been talk-
ing himself hoarse over his loyalty to the empire,
was asked to contribute. And then he turned ok
his loyalty at the meter and uttered an immortal
truth. ‘ ‘ Let the men who’ll benefit by the war
do the paying,” said he. Whereupon the loyal
barman called the pastoralist “a crimson Boer,”
and the man with the deadhead affection for the
Empire left that particular pub. for ever.
sdfs
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
mn
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
'
HILLS
can always be ridden
easier on a machine
fitted with
MULTIFLEX
t '
/
DUNIfiPIYRES
than on a Cycle fitted with other
tyres —the difference being that
“ Dunlop’s,” owing to their
being lined with our Patent
Plexifout Fabric, are mere
resilient than any other
tyres made, thus enabling
Cyclists to ride with the least
possible amount of vibration,
and consequently with more
speed and comfort.
MULTIFLEX
m
Excel all others for Lightness, Durability anti
Ease of Detachment.
ROADSTER TYRES GUARANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
SEND AT ONCE for a copy of artistic booklet: “All About Dunlop Tyres for
1900,” posted gratis on application to
fhe Qinlep pneumatic Tyre C>- of |>s. [tl,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &o.
Upon - all - Classes -
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
Css*
S*
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
zkt.s/w-.
||]ont deplete DJi I. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
New south wales mont de piete
\ D. &I. COMPANY, Limited.
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting of the SHAREHOLDERS
in the above Company will be held on WEDNES-
DAY, 31st inst., upon the Company’s premises, as
above, at 11 30 a.m.
By order of the Board of Directors.
EUSTACE BENNETT,
Manager.
Business:
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance-
sheet, and to transact any other business that
may be brought before the meeting in accor-
dance with the Articles of Association.
Dated 16th January, 1900.
New south wales mont de piete
D. & I. COMPANY, Limited.
74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
The TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company
will be CLOSED from 16th to 31st inst. inclusive.
By order. EUSTACE BENNETT,
Manager.
Dated 16th January, 1900.
Tile City fflutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.-5*
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 Greorge Street ( Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Gtiarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Inabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Perth., 'West Australia.
SPLENDID BUILDING BLOCKS,
50 x 150, only £5 each, on easy terms, no
interest. Title, Torrens’ Act. Adjoining Bishop
Gibney’s Estate and the Perth Commonage.
Plans post free from
ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Auctioneer & Sworn Valuator under the R.P. Act,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TJUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
London Lancashire
Fire Insurance Company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales )
Branch : /
95 Pitt-strset, Sydney-
Directors —JblTn"SeTfESq., M.P. ; D. Hogan, Esq., J. L’
Robert Kerr, manager.
Shipp ng.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Peregrine, Sat., Jan. 27, 12 Noon.
Leura, Sat., Feb. 3,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
FKEMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDAISERG
Tyrian, Sat., Jan. 27, 12 Noon.
Burwah, Tues., Jan. 30, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Feb. 3,12 Noon.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
I Tyrian, Sat., Jan. 27, 12 Noon.
Peregrine, Sat., Jan. 3, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowne, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart
Parker & 00. or Messrs. MTlwraith, M'Eacharn & Co.
Offices Mutual Life Building's, corner George and
Wyfiyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb« TrGst€€s, CxecGtorS,
AND
Conjpapy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 ... £6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent,. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2 000 000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New ’ ’
Zealand Government .. .. 500 000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital
£3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4 non a a
Paid-up Capital (11 12 ’99) ... £3:159,571 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. VV. H. Embling, M.L.C. ; ’
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors; John M‘Nall, R. M. M*Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 nishopsfjate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNKY - 273 GKOItGK STIIKET.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford "with agency at Wyong), N#w-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, ’ SoutH*
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
-THR-,
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,-261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance (Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 »PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
The Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
OPALS •PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
<■ '
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
Opal&, Pearls >'Sappbin>S
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL VALUE GIVEN.
A. BENJAMIN asjd SONS,
285 a Little Collins St-. Melbourne-
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
PERSIC, 11,984 tons, February.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AFRIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIO.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
E 1
INGLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Leave
Auckland.
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
Feb. 19 March
March 19 April
April 16 May
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
N
N.D.L.
ORDDEUTSCHER
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Beg.
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
Noon - Noon.
Feb. 10 Feb. 17
Mar. 10 Mar. 17
5 May 12
J. »» iiv UUUIU i» OiIiiAJULRiS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNEY MARKET:
The Principal Selling Centre in Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
OSS’ MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINOHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
J. C. YOUNG & CO.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
mr A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY^
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nrcw Oxfoiui-st., Loudon. £ i-r- p ur .
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Shipping.
theadelaiDe STEAMSHIP CO.
(MM I TED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Cintra, Sat., Jan. 27.
S.S. Marloo, Sat., Jan. 27.
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
kS.S. Rockton, Sat., Jan. 27.
For BRISBANE >-S.S. Adelaide, Sat., Jan. 27.
NOTE.—This steamer running under contract with the
Queensland Government for the carriage of refrigerated
cargo will maintain a regular weekly fast service between
Sydney and Brisbane, and will connect with theP. and O.
and Orient steamers. The attention of passengers is
directed to this opportunity of quick transit between
Sydney and Brisbane. The ADELAIDE is a first-class pas-
senger steamer, all cabins containing only two berths.
Best <0 Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
~ Ltd., Agents, 6 Bridge St. Sydney.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR, PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMBTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
■ Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE —A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Pr~AN DO COMPANY'
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Sydney,
Steamer.
Commander.
Noon
ROME
HIMALAYA
•OCEANA
* BRITANNIA
INDIA
5545[T. Leigh ... ... ...ijan. 27
6803 W. L. Broun, R.N.R. |Feb. 10
6603 L. H.Crawford.C.B., R.N.R. Feb. 21
6525 F. H. Seymour ... ...'March 7
7911 W. D. G. Worcester, R.N.R. March 21
* Proceeding via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
tinies’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAVVNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
Huddart, parker $ Co’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
CHIKTA. ELzid JA.]PA.]sr.
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. COMPANY, Ltd.
The following favorite Passenger Steamers will sail
from Sydney as under for HONGKONG and JAPAN, via
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin :
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electrio Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ID‘|luiraith, fl|‘Eacharn* go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotai ions, apply
Ll'llwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7o’
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RET CRN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent


Tins is the Late t Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone.
Price, £7.
THIS MACHINE
-
5®
m
Carriage Paid.
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List —FREE.
Also on Sale —
1 Edison Oinematographe complete and 10
Films, £5O.
1 Cinematographe and 10 Films, £35.
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune for a
smart man.
2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Ray Outfits, complete.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EDISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
Removed to 1 and 3 Rowe Street. (120 PITT STREET), SYDNEY (ONLY).
W. ,T. N. Older ah aw, Manager. y PBr lT fi.P n. .
NEW CENTURY NOVELTIES
5 lovely Diamonds,
from £lO to £4O each
Smaller Stones,
from £3, £4, £5,
£7 10s.
18c., 14 Lovely
Diamonds and 3
Rubies or
Sapphires, £7 10s.
Smaller Stones, 84s.
e*3 ESa
18c., 1 Diamond &
2 Rubies, or
1 Diamond and 2
Sapphires, 455;
smaller size, 30s.
1 Diamond and
Ruby, or Sapphire,
18c., £i.
Anv Name or
Motto; 9c., 12s 6d,
15s, 20s; 15c., 20s,
22s 6(1, 27s 6<3 ; 18c.,
21s. 255, 30s.
2 Diamonds and 3
Rubies or
Sapphires from 55s
to £lO.
Solid Gold, set with
5 Turquoise, 10s 6d, or Pearl
and Turquoise, 12s 6d ;
6 Opals, 15s and 21s.
Solid Gold, with any Name or Motto,
and Raised Wishbone, Bell, and
Chain, 10s 6d.
Solid Gold, with Raised Bird and
Forget-me-not, or with any Name, 10s 6d.
o°^
I> ooooo^
15c. Gold, 2 Dia
monds & 1 Kuby,
or 2 Diamonds &
1 Sapphire, 30s.
Gold Mizpah, Cross, and Dove BROOCH,
Latest Novelty, 12s 6d.
Solid Gold and Real Amethyst, 8s 6d.
Set with Pearls and Red or Blue Stones, 21s #
All Articles sent
Post Free.
LUCKY
SHAMROCK
CHARM,
Set with 1
Pearl, 2
Amethysts, &
1 Topaz, or
Obsidion, 4s.
GARNET
PENDANT and
Gold Bird
SAFETY TIN,
5s 6d. Without
Pendant, 3s.
9c., 17s 6d. 20s, 25s ;
15c., 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, ss.
With Monogram, 2s 6d extra.
Solid Gold, 14s pair.
With any Monogram.
RICHLY CHASED.
9c., 17s 6d, 20s, 255;
15c., 355, 40s, 455.
Silver, 4s, 5s pair.
Solid Gold and Real Opal,
17s 6d. With Ruby or
Sapphire, 20s.
50 Other Patterns.
oc., I2s 6d and 13s 6d ; 16c.,
255. Silver, 2s 6d pair.
Please send for our Illus-
trated Slips of Novelties.
Gold Merry Thought
SAFETY PIN, set with
real Pearl, 8s 6d.
THE HOGSKIN LEATHER BUCKLE AND STRAP WATCH GUARD, SILVER MOUNTED, 5s and 6s 6d ; GOLD, 18s 6d
NOTTS.—Our ONT.T Australian. Address— 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY
WHEAT SEASON, 1899-1900
All Grain held in Trust on Account of
Consignors.
Storage Accommodation— Spacious and Unrivalled.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
LIBERAL CASH ADVANCES.
Mew Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Co., Ltd.
The Qational Cash Register
A National Gash Register protects
the cash
It protects the customer.
It protects the shopkeeper.
It protects the books-
It protects the assistant-
n
It causes credit customers to buy
for cash-
It makes occasional purchasers
regular customers-
Prices from £5 to £68.
Full information
on application to
IHNatioQal Cast Register
COMPANY.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
AN INTERESTING CASE.
Further proof that Hydatids
Can be Cured without Operation
A well-known Lady of Brighton cured by Webber’s Vitadatio.
Mr. S. A. Palmer. “ Warleigh House,” Bay street, Brighton.
Dear Sir, —My wife, who was one of the healthiest women in the colony,
suddenly took ill last Christmas, and was confined to bed continually tor six
months. Medical men came to the conclusion there was little hope o er
recovery unless an operation was performed, they being under the impression
that there was an internal growth (cancer »r tumor). My wife, however, de-
clined to go under this operation. Acting on the advice of a lady triend, you
were called in, and after putting a few questions, pronounced my wife to e
suffering from Hydatids, and you vowed WEBBER’S VITADATIO WOULD
CU RE HER. She acted on this advice, and after taking four or five bottles, two
bags of Hydatids, at different times, came away. She continued and took a
few more bottles of Vitadatio, and I am pleased to say that she is now, to t e
Thousands Recommend....
Webber's
Purely Herbal
PRICE : 5/6 and 3/6, SOLD EVERYWHERE.
astonishment of all who see
her, the “ very picture of
health,” and as strong as
ever. I believe in giving
“ praise to whom praise is
due.”
Yours very gratefully, -
J. FALKINGHAM.
October 17, 1899.
mn
m


Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
lofkieoza CoOgb
THE REMARKABLY PERFECT Dust-proof
Oil-retaining: Bearings that are a feature of the
MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE make it the Easiest-
running- of Man-propelled Machines, just as it is
the Handsomest.
factories—Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney. Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
N.S.W. BRANCH: 385 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Strand Arcade.
With the holiday season coining on, and num-
bers of people either going themselves or sending their
families to the mountains, the enterprising burglars’ har-
vest has begun. Provident people, however, are provid-
ing against his visits by storing their valuables—plate,
jewellery, papers, &c. —at the Sydney Safe Deposit, Ash-
street (back of Paling’s), and business there is proportion-
ately brisk. We would recommend Bulletin readers to
call and inspect the massive vaults, and ascertain terms
for storage. Safes may now be rented upon reduced
terms, and boxes are received for storage at very moder-
ate rates.*
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGE^
...0n...
Mr- Fraok Scoior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-ltegal Chemist.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Elds’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELL”
K
*
t
K
J£3t iC it ±L JkC *t,
n
Why Red Birds Excel.
Found on
1900 Model Red Birds.
This cut illustrates the construction of a Red Bird flush joint. Notice
the taper reinforcement, and the three thicknesses of metal where the
greatest strain comes. Other makers use weldless steel tubing and
outside joints in frame construction. We don’t! We use nickel steel.
It costs more, hut it makes the best frame ; hut then, cost isn’t taken
into consideration in building Red Birds.
Oar Catalogue lor He asking. Tljis is only one of many Red Bird Features.
Manufactured, Sold and Guaranteed by ... .
Che Goold Bicycle Co., Ctd.
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Hgents—Gvery where.
Australasian Branches : 64 King-st., Sydney, Head Office in Australia
261 Collins-st, Melbourne, Vic.
Eoward-st., Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st., Wellington, N.Z.
Call and examine our Stock of New Cycles, at £5 each, fitted with best Tyres and Rims.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
bu^ a< Park S a partic “ larl 7 sooci time at Canter-
Dury Park, Sjdney, on Saturday last, when John Kid
the r HufX et R y Well as ,=°? fl a fav °rite as Stellarane, won
r dl t f“‘! al ‘ fl three red-hot favorites in Rvde,
Stlkes -,’nrt CT (rani u oy . Wo n the Stewards' Mile. Park
eiS,, d Handicap right off the reel. For the
started -irul Handicap, that gay deceiver, Fortune,
■ °*J ce agam played backers false, the winner
n!;,fo o oi'Vi n Arquebus 11., who was well backed at a long
price. Stellarane, who had started favorite for the llur-
the '^f nt ,? ut unnoticed by backers at 10 to 1 for
Shorts Handicap, but the price did not stop him, and
he won by a head from a well-backed animal, The Cryer.
* * • •
In these days of numerous “stiffs” in everv
race, few events pan out like the Steward’s Mile at Satur-
day s Canterbury meeting. In a field of 16, all the best
nags were genuinely backed, and the field wheeled into
tne straight like a troop of cavalry. Bar a straggler or
Passe <l the stand thus, the front rank being
f/n tv. T u e ,9 r^ er ’ Good - b ye, Eulong, Annerlieand Lenton ;
and the half-dozen, under the whip, battled out the finish
Byde just getting his nose past the post first, and inches
only separating the others. A finish of this sort is worth
crossing the province to witness.
* * * •
Giimeboy W of the Flying Handicap, on
baturday, is the handsomest and one of the speediest
little horses seen on a Sydney course for some time He
comes of an unfashionable sire—Goodfellow. He is a
Drown colt, small, but a real model in shape, and with a
y i e la ot . moving that takes beating, and his six furlongs
in 1.16, in above race, with 7.9 up, proves that lie’s a hur-
ned mover as wen. He beat a really good field easily,
and, bar accidents, he should have no trouble in getting
himself up among the top-weights. *
* * * •
Sydney’s present collection of hurdle horses is
a sorrowi'ul-looking lot. Several of the seven starters for
the jumping event at Canterbury on Saturday looked
as though they’d been taken out of cabs to make up a
field, and even the winner, John Kidd, isn't the sort of nag
a horse-thief would take many risks to obtain John
who is an aged pessimistic-looking bay, was a good
favorite, however, so the public didn’t object to his
beating the washy Condobolin nag, Brokerage, and
Kelso s Stellarane, although the latter was well backed
and, with luck, should have won. Of the other starters
Aboriginal, a goutv-legged old black, fell over, whilst an
indescribable quadruped named Aberdare cantered feeblv
and arrived by the time the books were paying out.
An application has been made to the A .T 0
committee to re-open the case of Frank Fielder’s 'three
years disqualification over his riding of Mora in the
Christmas Handicap at Rand wick. Perhaps no local racing
case of recent occurrence has caused as much comment
amongst racing men as the one in point, and the general
reeling- is that the punishment was excessive, in face of
the many barefaced cases of roping which occur at the
metropolitan head-centre, and are passed over as coming
under the category of “ reversals of form.” Enquiries
under the A.J.O. are held in camera, but it is an open
secret that the owner of the mare proved his bona-tidex bv
showing that he had backed the mare. Moreover it was
also shown that Fielder’s father had solidly backed his
son s mount, and an outsider would imagine that evidence
which stood for the owner would be equally good for the
jockey, but the A.J.O. thought otherwise, and passed
upon the crack rider a penalty of three years, or practi
callyWe, forattheend of the period of disqualification
Fielder will probably be too weighty to ride. In the in-
terests of the sport the case requires a thorough re-
sifting. °
* • • »
Said that Tom Gunning, one time owner or
part-owner of equine crack St. Blaize, left with last N.S. W
Contingent for South Africa, as corporal. Tom had a
great stroke of luck over Mentor’s Cup, and it was this that
set him going. He won a good bit punting—backing the
winner of the big event to the tune of some hundreds
and, returning home after the meeting, found he had
drawn Mentor in one of Tatt.’s big sweeps. Cunning
went to England as trainer and friend of Percy Cavill
when the champion swimmer was there as an amateur’
A corporal's pay seems a poor thing after drawiiw a Cunl
wmner in Tatt.’s. * F
* * * *
Reply to correspondent: Maud S. did the mile
m 28Ji 15 years ago, out that time has been considerably
reduced since. J
* • * •
A horse called Boer won the Transvaal Stakes
(War Relief Fund) at meeting lately.
George’s River (Sydney), adjacent to the spot
where Larry Foley and Sandy Ross decided their two his-
toric battles in the Seventies, was on Monday mornin«-
the scene of a scrap which was the talk of turf circles for
three weeks past. An ex-jockey (eldest of a family of
prominent riders) and an individual commonly known as
“Curley,” with a reputation that the George’s River
affair proved to be wholly undeserved, were the princi-
pals. The match was the outcome of a dispute on the
Moorefield racecourse between a well - known trainer-
owner and the jock, in question as to whether Skein Dhu
was “on it” that day or otherwise. The “barney’
ended by the jockey offering to meet any middle-’
weight who had not appeared in public as a
fighter. The match was for £lOO a side. Though
a lot of betting took place the affair was kept
very quiet. One noted punter, who has himself figured m
the roped square that is called a “ ring,” wagered an even
£2OO with the backer of “Curley.” The convincing
ground—seven miles up stream—was reached in a launch
which left Sans Souci at daybreak. When the pair toed
the mark, the destination of at least £BOO hinged upon
the result. There was no ring. Conditions called for 2-
mm. rounds with £min. spells. Neither could fight worth
a cent apparently, though the jock is said to be a good
un. “ Curley ” got home on the stomach with a beauty
that shook the recipient up, but latter secured first
blood a little later by means of a left flush on the mouth.
Curley ” experienced a torrid time in the second round
getting his head cut with a heavy right and being the un-
grateful recipient of two or three from the same member
on the “ point.” The last of them stretched him out dead
to the world. Otto Cribb, though no champion, could
hck a paddockful of either.
* * • .
“Old Timer”: The huge crowd (fully 2000) at
interprovincial Tweedie-Peach fight in Metropolitan A C
(Sydney), last week, supplied convincing evidence that"
given the opportunity for viewing a contest under any-
thing like comfortable conditions, the game would com-
mand every bit as big a following as it did in the days
(ten years ago) of the old York-street club. But a few
more such affairs as that referred to would settle all
interest in pugilism for a good part of a century
Peach was palpably short of condition and went
to pieces in the sixth round. lie stood before Tweedie—
reputed a second Griffo—as confident as any man could
be, and time after time got left hon.e on the stomach and
right on the ribs or head without return. Often, too, he
left himself palpably open in various ways, but
nary an effort did the clever Tweedie make to take
advantage of these chances. Then came a series
of stage falls in round seven. From mere taps on
the face Peach would drop to the boards as if knocked
limp, turn round on his elbow until the referee counted
8,” and rise again to go through the same performance
once more. At last his second. Bill Jennings (wily old
chap), cast the rag- into the atmosphere. The go
was a bitter disappointment. If it was fought on its
merits, then the principals were extremely unfortunate
in having appearances so decidedly against them.
* * * *
“ H.”: Middleweight champion pug of the
provinces, Tim Murphy, scored his third successive
victory at Broken Hill (N.S.YV.), Saturday night, by
knocking Queensland crack 11.4 man, Archer, out in the
seventh round. A punch on the solar plexus did the
trick. There’d be big money in a match between Tim
and the mother province crack middleweight, Mick Dunn,
and they’d want a huge structure like the Metropolitan
A.O. (Sydney) to hold the crowd. Murphy contemplates
leaving for Yankeeland in a couple of weeks.
• * * *
Hegarty has made a new departure in pugilism.
He has been giving semi-private full-dress rehearsals, so
to speak, at Seale’s Gymnastic Club, for the gratification
of sundry Ikey s and others of the sporting brotherhood.
He knocked large sections off Alf. Stoneham, out of con-
dition, and much below championship form. Then he
took Wally Weekes on and Wally finished with a substan-
tial bit in hand. Otto Cribb, the M.L. irresistible, was to
have followed, but Tim somehow made a mistake about
the time they had to meet, whereat Otto was chagrined
in various languages. The cognoscenti are considerably
exercised in mind as to what the Hegarty party is at, and
cute ones among them say “ ware hawk,” under the firm
conviction that the game is to influence the betting
against Tim, who, they insist, invariably holds a lot up
his sleeve. Others, however, will have it that he shows
the best that is in him every time, and indulges in the
willing business for no other reason than to keep his hand
m. Writer inclines to the first opinion.
• » • «
Much interest has been excited over feather
premiership boxing struggle to take place in Sydney
Monday night. Melbourne man Tim Hegarty’s crowd
insists that he can’t lose—that the “go” is a “moral”
for him, and he looks like starting a red-hot favorite.
Sydney crack (Napier) has followers who are just as confi-
dent, but they don’t talk so much. When two “ morals ”
meet, obviously one of them must be more or less de-
moralised.
* * • *
Mons. Victor has returned from the West,
fatter and more prosperous than he has ever been in his
life before, and eager to back Bill Doherty in a return
match against Felix. “ Mons.” was an official in the last
fight, and received an incidental punch on the nose him-
self in the middle of a willing rally. He says that
Doherty owes his defeat to an accidental collision with
the nigger’s knee, which cut open his cheek to the bone.
He admits, however, that Felix did some hitting—a thing
that the long man has hitherto managed to get through
his fights without.
* * * *
“Crank”: Saw a par. in Sydney D.T. t’other
day to the effect that Australian pug. Herb. McKell was
in Canada going to give a boxing exhibition with someone,
after which he intended engaging in mining at Kloiidyke
with erstwhile Maitland (N.S.W.) blacksmith bruiser
Paddy Slavin. Boxing exhibitions are slippery Herb.’s
fame, lie’s not taking any chances at the “willing”
usiness if there’s a possible get-out. His fairy tales are
very amusing. Not long ago he left ’Frisco with a! big
blare stating that he purposed placing himself under Kid
McCoy’s mentorship and taking on all and sundry-
champion 11.4 man Tommy Ryan for choice ; but Herb,
seems to have skipped all this (probably because Tommy
'V al .d? c * the o° orl the level) and is now telling another
thrilling tale to the Canadians. It’s any odds he’ll fight
nobody if he can get out of it. We saw that here when
challenges from Ned Burden and others were ignored
There’s no fear of Herb. McKell taking the Klondylce track
with Paddy Slavm either. It’s too rough a road, and there
aren’t enough comforts when you get there.
* * * *
Looked at in the light of latest news from the
land of the birch and pine-tree ham, that fight between
Australian Bob Fitzsimmons and Yankee Jim Jeffries for
the world’s supremacy was not altogether what it pre-
tended to be. Recent negotiations for a second match
between the same pair set one thinking. Jeffries won’t
consent to another meeting unless he gets 75 per cent, of
the purse—win or lose. Fitz is content to let the winner
take all, which, in face of the fact that he was apparently
badly beaten, is rather peculiar. Comes to mind now
that some papers at the time said Fitz. fought as if he
wanted to be licked, and in the 11th round actually held
his jaw out, as if it was a Christmas box, to get the
decisive punch on the point. Will be remembered, too,
that Australian veterinary dentist “ Billy ” Miller, upon
returning to Sydney a month or two since, said a fishy
odor pervaded the whole business beforehand, and after-
wards the loser (Fitzsimmons) bought a theatre in
Chicago. Taking a line on Fitz’s fight with sailor Sharkey
and the latter’s showing against Jeffries, the present
champion of the world should have been an easy thin°-
for the man he took the title from.
» * * *
Balmain Swimming Club again secured N.S.W.
Flying Squadron team supremacy at Bondi (Sydney)
carnival, Saturday last, beating Otter and Bondi by zo
and 22yds. respectively. Other teams (West Sydney,
East Sydney and Newcastle) failed to survive the pre-
liminary heats. Individual members of winning quintette
got over their different 100yds. as follows, and in the
order given : Grant, 18 4-5 ; Proudfoot, 17 ; Murden,
170 3-5 ; Byers, 170 2-5 ; Craig (220yds. champion of Aus-
tralasia), l - 5 4-5. Full time of team, 572 3-5. This is
5 2-ssec. faster than when same club won last year. The
personnel of the team was identical with that of Satur-
day, bar Murden, who took Bennett’s place.
• » • *
Dear Bulletin.—ln the sporting column of last
week’s Bulletin I find a doubt thrown on my age, which
I can positively say is 15 years, as I was born in 1884.
Anyone doubting this statement, by enquiring at the office
of the Registrar-General, can for the small sum of 2s. 6d.
obtain further proof. Respectfully yours, Reginald L
Baker. 22/l/’OO.
* * • #
There’s a lot of veiled professionalism about the
Australasian amateur. ’Tis said that two M.L. pot-
hunters who assisted at recent A.A.A.U. championships
in Q. have forwarded claims for wages during their
absence from home. A Sydney champion sprint swimmer
got his usual screw (while training) from a club at whose
meeting he was to swim, and the A.S.A. saw no harm in
it.
» * * *
The three crack 22-footers, Effie, Keriki and
Plover, met for the Sydney Sailing Club’s Championship
on Saturday last. The wind was fluky in the extreme,
and after a tiresome drifting match the boats just finished
before the stipulated 7 o’clock. Effie, the crack of the
fleet, had the worst of the flukes and finished last, Keriki
drifting home some 2tmin. ahead of Plover.
* * * *
“ Dick ” Green, a Sydney forty-year-ago cham-
pion sculler, showed himself very much alive last week in
a letter to a Sydney daily, when he offered to bring out
his four sons to row any four amateurs from Victoria
The four young ’uns may be chips off the old block, but
history shows as a rule champions do not beget cham-
pions. Champions at all classes of sport expect their sons
to follow in their footsteps, and start the youngsters at
their respective games as soon as they can crawl, but it’s
no go. Champions are born, not made.
* * • *
Personnel of Sydney team to meet Victoria is,
as might have been expected, somewhat different from
that which met S.A. recently—the time when Cornstalk
fielding reached such a low standard ; but the weedin<>-
out process might have gone a bit farther with benefit.
Dreary Mackenzie is among the rejected, albeit argument
could be adduced to show that he did a deal better in
some respects than many of those still on deck. It is also
pleasing to note that M. A. Noble will take a hand this
lime.
* * * «
Understood that Major Wardill, at the instance
of if a representative lot can liegot together,
take a Victorian II to M.L. after present Victoria-
N.S.W. match is over. Contract provides for six matches
—five in the principal towns against local combinations
and the sixth against all Maoriland. M.O.C. will receive
£3OO towards ex.’s.
In Sydney Electorate First Grade Matches, on
Saturday last, Central Cumber lands continued their
winning’ career, defeating North Sydney by 86 runs. Pye
with the bail took Quist’s and Duff’s wickets for no runs ;
and Howell did most of the rest of the damage. Pad-
dington (v. Bedfern) closed their innings with 6 wickets
for 417 runs, and as Redfern had no show of winning they
stonewalled and made a draw. Bur wood closed their
innings at 272 for 6 wickets, and disposed of Glebe for
153; Waverley beat South Sydney by 9 wickets; and
Bast Sydney was beaten by Leichhardt.
* * # m
George Giffen, Lyons, Jonas, and Darling are
all retiring from club cricket for the remainder of the
season. Cricket is much like horse-racing, for the first-
named three have all broken down in the feet or there-
abouts.
• • • •
Cycling isn’t always a paying game in Aus-
tralia, and bad management has much to do with it.
One league recently had to consider the complaint of an
investigating committee that the racing hoard had issued
over 13J0 complimentary tickets! The attendance at the
meeting was under 5000 for the two days.
* » * *
For down rig-lit ignorance some country racing
stewards capture the crumb. At a recent minor horse-
gallop in M.L., the judge, not liking the result, disquali-
fied a winner right there on his own motion, and on his
own private and personal complaint lodged by himself in-
formally with himself, and awarded the stake to the
second horse. Being remonstrated with, he told the
crowd to cast itself into the eternal ash-barrel below, and
P, 01 „ out that the rules provided “ the judge’s decision
shall be final.” And final it had to be.
■* * * •
Pony-racing in Melbourne has got to a pretty
low ebb. Stakes have dropped gradually from £2O usual,
and £3O occasional, to £lo—when you get it. Jockeys’
tees also have suffered, and the usual fee for a losing
at° l I l' L nOW a “ fnmkfort and roll,” or perhaps nothing
* * • *
A lot of the bridles supplied to the second Vic-
contingent could be snapped by a sudden jerk.
Ihe Government should purchase bridles as supplied to
some of the racing stables round Melbourne—warranted
to hold a steam-engine.
• • * •
Darkie, an old-time M.L. equine, was destroyed
recently, aged 30. A regular warrior. Originally a
jumper, he took to trotting, and was 24 years old when
he won his last race.
* * * *
Pity the visiting-owner when he bumps up
against a “ local ” hoss on a bush course. In a recent
Maoriland ro b “local” cantered nearly the whole
way, and won Visitor protested in great confidence, but
stewards let the result lie “’cos the poor hoss couldn't
help it. Transpired afterwards that the winner had
never been trotted in his life before.
* * * *
~ story of a long toilsome fight comes from
Sandringham, Melbourne. The combatants, a short,
fo«° « i Ul u m . a i‘ anc l *O3 long, wiry enemy, went to the
tar-off suburb with their backers, seeking rural solitude
and commenced their battle shortly after davbreak in
order to get through before breakfast. After four hours
ot unscientific combat the foes were still unsatisfied, but
tne managers of the entertainment postponed the fight
and announced an interval for refreshments. The party
took breakfast at the nearest hotel, and then returned to
the scrub and renewed the engagement. The long man
and the short man waved their arms at each other on the
hot brown sand under a blinding sun, and at dinner time
there was no appearance of a finish, so a further adiourn-
vYas insisted upon, and the company dined.
Hostilities were resumed an hour later, and the battle
as raging cheerfully at about four o’clock when one of
?V c ? UIU , lje<l , to heat apoplexy, and another
!?y knocking out the longer combatant
',!“7 butt e nd of a young gum tree. It is alleged that
all that weary day neither combatant got one fair blow in
at his enemy. The only real genuine bruise is on the
head of the long man where the gum sapling struck him
* * * *
o le w i nn ers of flat-races in England and
Scotland last season were the progeny of close upon 300
stallions,among whom figured many from AustraliaandM.L.
Kirkham, bred by the late Hon. James White to qualify
or FnghshDerby, has three wins to his credit per medium
of a son. Form (Cranbrook) got away with three worth
£7lO. Merman (Grand Maneur) annexed a similar num-
ber for a total of £1543. Maluma (Malua) only scored
once, but raked in £lB2O. Newhaven (Newminster) had
three victories representing £3980. Progeny of Sir
Modred, Trenton (Longy, 4 races, £1171), Hotchkiss, Car-
bine, and Carnage are also on the list.
* * * *
At a recent sale of trotters in New York USA
some big prices were obtained for top-notchers, but some
bargams were picked up which would be good this side
of the pond if they couid be dep ,lsd on to trot up to
their American form. Some a ials with records of
2min. 20sec. were sold for about ..jo each. Many trotters
have been imported to Australia from the States, but
they inv ar iably leave their records behind them, due, no
doubt, to the difference in track and handling. Pacer
J.H., now racing in Maoriland, did a wonderful trial
before Mr. foster purchased him in America, but he never
made any approach to it in Australia.
* • « •
Australian nag Ebor, who recently won Ringmer
Steeple at Plumpton (Eng.), supplies evidence of how- lon«-
a ,“°f se . ma y survive the wear-and-tear of racing, provided
all life is not knocked out of him while maturing. Ebor is
m his twelfth year, and, if records are to be relied upon
raced for the first time when he was aged six, winning a
hurdle event at Epsom (Victoria). Further successes' in
the same province followed. Then, under Mr S H
Gollan’s colors, he won a hurdle race in M.L., and several
times ran into a place. In ’95 Ebor was taken to England
where, with 25 starts, eight events were credited to him!
among them the Great Staffordshire ’Chase, wherein he
carried 11.4 and had Maoriland jockey Hickey up. Case
of whilom Bananaland nag, Merloorlas (now in India)
might also be cited in support of contention atopenin <y of
this par. Merloorlas never raced till he was 3vrs. old °
* * * *
M.L. hack trouble seems to have been satis-
factorily settled at last. Hitherto, once in the hack ranks
a horse that could distinguish himself in big company
remained a “ hack”-—if his owner so desirecf—and won
when he liked. Racing conference recently decided that
hacks winning one race worth £BO or races ag^re^atin^
£l5O would have to join more pretentious "company!
Whereupon clubs giving prizes of £BO and over at once
lowered the stake for the benefit of owners who did not
want to go out first pop.
* * * »
Late news from ’Ome is that strong man Samp-
son, who had the loan of Sydney and Melbourne early
last year, reached London about the middle of December,
lie told an interviewer that at one of his performances
here he broke a blood-vessel in the abdomen and was in-
capacitated for seven weeks ; at St. Petersburg his hand
was torn, and at Paris, in September, he dislocated his
knee-cap. Sampson is said to have introduced a new
turn. He supports a huge revolving globe (in which are
seated 25 men) on his shoulders. How is it done ?
* • • *
After being told fully four months ago that
champion cueist John Roberts had retired for good be-
cause his sight was failing him, word comes from down
under of a big achievement on his part quite recently.
At the Egyptian Hall, London, the old marvel conceded
8000 in 21,000 to Cecil Haverson. Going to the table 13
times John aggregated 942 in lj hours, during which
period llaverson only totted up 272. Roberts scored
some remarkable strokes, and evidenced all his old deli-
cacy of touch and knowledge of strength and position.
Often he essayed shots of exceptional difficulty, apparently
for no other reason than that he was tired of making the
easier ones. Nursing cannons came to him like Hrassey
falling off a horse, while his hazards are said to have been
very brilliant.
* * * •
Sensational six-days’ “ twin’’-cycling grind, at
Madison Square Gardens (N.Y.), wherein competitors
were arranged in pairs—each riding 12 hours out of the
24 daily—concluded Dec. 9. Winners were Miller and
Waller (a German-American couple), who together covered
2733 2-5 miles. Maya and M’Eachern (two Canadians)
were second with 2733 1-5 miles. Gimm and Pierce
(Americans) occupied third place, having travelled 2733
1-10 miles. An amazingly close finish. During the ex-
citement, which is described as intense, a man fell out of
the second tier of seats and broke his neck. Nineteen
teams started, hut only seven finished. Best individual
score was credited to Walthour (an American), who got
over 1402 4-5 miles.
• * * •
According to jockey up, “short of a gallop ” was
the cause of Major George’s Seahorse being defeated in
M.L. Great Northern Derby. Writer has often felt amused
at this excuse ; also that other one—“ a gallop too much.”
Trainers usually try to make it appear that they have
their business down to a science, though most of them
merely drift into it through being too heavy to
ride. Writer has had a long experience, and can remem-
ber few trainers who could tell by appearances whether a
horse was a bit out of sorts or not. He does a trial, is
backed on the strength of that trial, and, failing to run
within seconds of it, is often allowed to go out next time
comparatively unbacked. Then he, perhaps, romps home.
Trainers forget that horses, like men, have their days
when they don’t feel up to the mark. The man can ex-
plain, but the horse can’t, and the trainer, being only a
man who is too fat to be a jockey, doesn’t know. °
* * ♦ *
George Giffen holds a world’s cricket record.
On one occasion he took all ten wickets, and then, goin"
in first, batted right through an innings, remaining not
out. This was some years ago, for the Norwood Club on
Adelaide Oval.
The booklet, “ All about Dunlop Tyres,”
issued by tlie Dunlop Tyre Co., is a handsomely
pot-up and complete affair, containing valuable
information for cyclists, and abounding witb
photos, and useful cuts.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on nage
27 of this issue.*
Speech of one of the South African con-
tingent, farowelled at Hurstville (Sydney) last
week, was very amusing. Following is a verbatim
report of portion of it, delivered to a packed
house:—
Well, chaps, I’m goin’ ter fight for me Queen. When I
reads in the newspapers (and after all we have ter go to
the newspapers for information) how them Boers slaughter
innercent wimmin and children me blood biles, and I want
ter get at’em. I'll go straight for old Krueger; I'll go to
that place where he is now—what d’ye call it? Well,
never mind wherever it is—l’ll go there and get ’old of
im, and bring’im back in a cage. (This with a wither-
ing look in the direction of a crying youngster.) I wanted
to go to the war before, but somebody—l don’t know
who now—persuaded me not to. I’ve passed several
tests, this time, and made up me mind that if I
wasn’t accepted I'd get aboard the ship and address the
people of N.S.W. on the subject. If anyone has any.
thing against iii-e, or if I've done anyone an injury , now
is the time for them to come forward, and I'll shake them,
by the 'ami aiui forgive them from the bottom of my
’art." Wild cheering from all parts of the building.
TRIOLETS.
Is it Kru-ger, or Kru-yer, or Kru-er?
’Tis a name you must learn to pronounce ;
When you start to impute things impure
Against Kroo-jer, or Krugger, or Crow-er,
It’s as well to be certain and sure
That you the right party denounce,
Whether Kru-ger, or Kru-yer, or Kru-er—
’Tis a name you must learn to pronounce.
Tis a word that has troubled us sore,
Of the seeds of dissension a sower—
Is it 80-er, or Boor, or Bore ?
That’s the word that has troubled us sore.
Shall we rhyme it with moor or with more?
Or mate it with “ Land of the Moa?”
That word that has troubled us sore—
Of the seeds of dissension a sower 1
UIOOLA.


Ebery one PIPES the Praises
■<V\
6 \ i-
i
s-
U
’' flltoWr
OP
Derby
TOBACCO.
PURE,
AROMATIC,
DELIGHTFUL.
ASK FOR IT ALWAYS,
AND TAKE NO OTHER.
ONE HUNDRED AND THIRD HALF-YEARLY REPORT
OF
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
LIMITED.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Banking House, George-street,
Sydney, on Friday , the 19th January, 1900.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance Sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of
the Rank on the 31st December, 18!)!), and present the following report:—
1 Imbalance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bills and
accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying note tax, and
providing for land and income taxes and bad and doubtful debts, amounts to £64,271 16 11
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations:—
To the payment of a Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 9 per cent, per annum £45 000 0 0
„ Balance being undivided Profit 19 271 16 11
The Dividend, free of Income Tax, is now payable.
£64,271 16 11
EDWARD KNOX, Chairman.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS.
(Including London Urn nch to 31st December by Cable.)
Dr.
Cr.
£ b. d.
To Capital £1,000,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund .. 1,010,000 0 0
„ Reserve Capital .. 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
To Capital Paid-up
„ Reserve Fund
£1,000,000 0 0
1,010,000 0 0
„ Notes in circulation..
„ Bills in circulation ..
>. Deposits and other liabilities
„ Profit and Loss Account ..
-2,010,000 0 0
470,107 0 0
755,205 10 3
10,948,020 6 11
70,587 3 5
£14,253,920 0 7
& b. d.
By Coin and Bullion in
hand .. .. £2,266,350 16
„ Cash at Bankers .. 323,836 14
„ Government securities 1,233,731 7
„ New South Wales
Government
„ Queensland Govern-
ment Notes
~ Remittances in transit
„ Notes and Bills of
other banks
100,000 0 0
40,499
998,882
25,777 2 0
~ Bills discounted, and all debts due to
the Bank
„ Bank Premises, Furniture, &c. ..
4,989,077 7 7
8,844,875 13 0
419,967 0 0
£14,253,920 0 7
Profit and Loss Account.
To Rebate on Current Bills £6,315 6 6
„ Dividend Account for Payment of a
Dividend for past half-year at the
rate of 9 per cent, per annum .. 45,000 0 0
ii Balance of undivided profit carried to
next Half-year 19,271 16 11
£70,587 8 6
By Amount undivided from last half-year.. £10,020 12 7
„ Profit for half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1899 51,566 10 10
£70,587 3 5
Reserve Fund.
1809—December 31st.
£1,010,000 0 0
EDWARD KNOX, Chairman.
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
A. J. SOUTAII, Accountant.
, ~, ~ , , , ... Sydney, IGth January, 1900.
eh / certi, y that we have examined the bills, compared the balances, and counted the coin in the Head
Office of Tub Commkrcui, Banking Company ok Sydxky Limitkd, and have compared the returns of the Branches, and
have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance Sheet.
F. T. lIUMPITERY,\ .
J. db V. LAMB f ■“■EDITORS.
The following resolutions were carried unanimously:—
'* Th |*ro^lrteufrs°” l and Statement 9 of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated among the
“That the thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager and Officers of the Bank
lor their very satisfactory management of the affairs of the institution.”
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
In moving the adoption of the Report, the Chairman, Sir Edward Knox, said :
‘ to y° u f?' day th ® 103 r d Half-yearly Report of the Bank, it gives me great pleasure to announce
that the Directors consider that the time has arrived when the Dividend may he increased from 8 to 9 per cent, per
11. which. doilbHpSS. Will hp rpppi vnrl l»v vnu tmth ominl nlnnLiitHn nn>l : ** *
uuau uic wine luio mnvcu Hiieu uie lsiviuenu may lie men
annuni which, doubtless, will be received by you with equal pleasure and satisfaction.
,ny P rivil 1 e l Sf o t 0 present to you a Balance Sheet showing that the volume of the business of the Bank,
wmcn on dlst December, lisOS, amounted to.. .. nit: non
stood on the 3fst December, 1891), at .. " “ " " "
having increased during the year by .. .. " " " " " £738000
“ A cojnparison of the different items with those of the corresponding period of IS9B shows that the^Note
'lion, had increased by £27,000, and that £700,000 had been added to
the n ex 0f our • progressive condition, nau mcreasea oy £27,000, and that £700,000 had been added to
Twnfii n P „A iL. , h . e y ear ,: Hieother liabilities showing an increase of £3,142 in Bills in Circulation, and £7,910 in
rnt \ h ®i credit sidei we find that Liqu.d Assets amounting to £4,989,000 had increased by £479,000,
and that Bills discounted and all other advances exceeded by £255,000 those of the previous year J
past half -year many of our constituents, who have hitherto shipped their'produce to London
run the risk ° f “ the loCal market > rather than
tent'*aTeXrd£lfv^n!inL <^ ,0n . y i £renerally ’u notVvith !- an< ! in F th ? drou S h t, which still prevails to a considerable ex-
fnr l e ! “ f b f P ’ variously at 10,000,000 more or less, have been more
40 £ per < cent enSated f ° r by tlle lllgher value of the remaining flocks, and by enhanced prices for wool to the extent of
“ Jh e large. dem an<l existing for frozen and canned meats has led to higher prices for cattle.
mfli n t 3 bea .TJ;:,°" a i Cap,tal P r ? Vld ®d b y an increased production of gold and a better wheat harvest has tended to
maintain an easy money market and to encourage greater competition for real and pastoral properties.”
D.S.MAIR
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulated and Guaranteed 1 year, 2/6.
Best quality new English Mainsprings, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Keyless Silver Lever Watches.
Accurate timekeepers. Guaranteed 5 years. 25/-
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Silver Double Alberts. 6/6
7/6, 8/ 6, 9,6. English Hall-marked.
p. S. Mair for Ladies’ 5-stone Brilliant Diarr ond
Ring. £4los. 18-carat Gold. Hall-marked.
Note address— QO-i George Street, Sydney.
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHCEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it wiil save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZEFGES.
A
>
n
TTTT3
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK 6RIMLEY
Sol* DistribGtiog AgsDt
for AGStrala&ia . . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-265 Clarence Street, Sydney,
The Trustees Executors »| Agency Company
LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1878.
numerous .-
F. R. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman.
ROBT. MURRAY SMITH, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice-Chairman.
JOHN GRJCE, Esq. C. M. OFFICER, Esq. Hon. J. M. PRATT, M.L.C.
JAS. BORROWMAN, Manager. FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant-Manager.
CAPITAL :
Subscribed, £150,000. Further Reserve Liability, £150,000. Paid-up, £90,000.
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and Clients at 31st December, 1899, £6,277,747 tts. 3d.
OTICE is hereby given that the Forty-fourth Ordinary Half-'Yearly Meeting of the Share-
holders of the above Company will be held in the Board Room, at the Company’s Offices,
No. 412 Collins Street, on Monday, 29th inst., at Eleven o’clock.
BUSINESS.
1. To Receive the Directors’ Report and Balance-sheet for the Half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1899.
2. To elect two Auditors in place of Messrs. Paterson and Cleveland, who retire, but who
are eligible for re-election, and offer themselves accordingly.
3. To consider any other business that may be brought before the meeting, of which due
notice shall have been given.
REPORT.
The amount remaining at Credit of Profit and Loss Account and available for distribution is
£5946 Is. 10d., which the Directors recommend should be appropriated as follows :
To Dividend on £90,000 for Half-year ended 31st December, 1899, at
the rate of 5 per cent, per annum £2,250 0 0
„ Balance to be carried forward 3,096 1 10
£5,946 1 10
By order of the Board,
JAS. BORROWMAN,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, 15tli January, 1900. Manager.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited.
♦
Profit and Loss Account.
Da. llulf-Tear Ended, 31st necember, 1809. Cr.
1899—December 31.
To Salaries, Directors’ and Auditors’ Fees,
including Agencies £3,937 1 4
„ Stationery, Postage, and Office Expenses 680 3 10
~ Printing and Advertising 319 7 9
~ Furniture and Fittings .. ... .. 6 6 2
„ Law Costs .. 64 11 0
£4,997 10 1
„ Allowance for Widow of late Managing
Director 260 0 0
~ Difference in Amount Paid and Received
on Lease 37 Queen Street 849 18 9
~ Difference in Amount Paid in connection
with Mortgage on Premises and Received
on Investment of £20,000 250 10 0
i, Balance carried down 6,946 1 10
£11,794 0 8
1899 —June 30.
By Balance £4,752 15 2
Less Dividend at the rate of 5% per
annum on £OO,OOO .. .. 1,500 0 0
1899—December 31.
By Interest on Mortgages, Stock, See. .. 606 7 8
„ Commissions and Miscellaneous Re-
ceipts, after providing for Contingencies 7,836 8 6
„ Companies’ I‘reinises
Rents £307 18 0
Less Rates, Lift, and
Repairs .. .. 209 8 7
9B 9 6
£11,794 0 8
1899—December 31.—8 y Balance .. .. £5,946 110
BALANCE SHEET.
31st December, ISO!*.
Dr.
Cr.
Capital—
Subscribed .. .. £150,000 0 0
Less Uncalled .. .. 00,000 0 0
60,000 Shares paid up to £1 10s. per share.. £90,000 0 0
Money owing on Open Account, &c. .. 224 3 1
Debt due on Mortgage ol Freehold
Property 20,000 0 0
Profit and Loss Account .. 6,946 110
£116,170 4 11
Investments—
Inscribed Stock, at par £lO,OOO 0 0
Money lent on Mortgage, at face value 4,834 2 4
Money lent against interests of Bene-
ficiaries, at face value 10,857 18 7
Investments set aside to meet Mortgage
on Freehold Property—
Bank of Victoria —
Deposits, at face value £2,600 0 0
Australian Deposit and
Mortgage Bank—
Deposits, at face value 16,000 0 0
2800 £5 Preference
Shares at 10s. per
Share .. .. 1,400 0 0
20,000 0 0
£45,692 0 11
Freehold Property at Cost .. £69,348 2 10
Less Written off .. .. 4,348 210
65,000 0 0
Furniture and Fittings at Cost £954 4 10
Less Written off .. .. 454 4 10
Debts due to the Company other than those
above mentioned, amounts paid in ad-
vance, Ac
Cash to Credit in Bank of Australasia ..
600 0 0
682 4 10
4,295 19 2
£116,170 4 11
Trust, Executor, and Agency Business.
Contingent and Other Liabilities otherwise than
in respect of any of the above-mentioned Items.
Amount at credit of Estates, Trusts and
Clients, represented by Investments
and Cash at Bankers, as per contra .. £6,277,747 11 3
£6,277,747 11 3
Contingent Assets.
Advances on Mortgage of Real Estate .. £1,982,409 4 9
Debentures and Stock .. . . .. 749,105 8 6
Landed Property ' .. 2,493j726 19 10
Other Securities 990,914 13 10
Cash at Bankers at credit of Trust Cur-
rent Accounts 61,591 4 4
£6,277,747 11 8
The Jolliest Book of the Year
“ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 68. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.


STEWART DAWSON & 60.
Everywhere Popular.
Reliable^
NO MIDDLEMEN’S PROFITS!
Daily Increasing.
Prices Save you 25 to 50 per cent
N°. E6797.—New Elegant Design, 9e. Gold
Brood), Set Diamond, Ruby and
Sapphire, 14s 6d.
No. E 7564.
-New Lucky Bean Pin Oharm,
9c. Gold, 4s 6d.
No. in.— New Bar Brooch, Amethyst,
and 9c. Gold, 10s. 6d.
No. E7364.—New Lucky Bell Pin Charm,
9c. Gold, 4s 6d.
No 612.—Heart and Lovers’ Knot Brooch
Artistic Design,
Amethyst and 9c. Gold, 18s 6d.
No. 184 a. —Keeper.
ISc. Gold fel * s 6d
No. 162.-3 Fine
Diamonds, 18e. Gold
£4 17s 6d.
No. 165.—2 Rubies, 1
Diamond, 15c. Gold,
£l6s.
ST
No. 183. —Elegant
Carved Keeper, 18c
Gold, £2.
No. 172.—Fine VVnite Diamond,
£4 10s. Larger, £5 10s.
No. 176a. —Lady’s or
Gent’s 18c. Gold Band
Ring, £1 is, £1 10s, £2.
No. 171.-180. Gold,
9 Diamonds, 3
Sapphires, £3 10s.
No. 160.—1 Diamond
2 Kubies, 18c. Gold,
£2.
No. 178.—Wedding
Ring, 18c. Gold, £1 is.
-15 c. Gold Biacelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Kubiea.
£4 7s 6d.
No. 208.—15 c. Gold
Heart, 10s 6d.
9c. ditto, 6s 6d.
N°. 139.—90. Gold Bracelet, Kuby Centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. 217.—15 c. Gold
Heart, Diamond and
Sapphire, £1 ss.
No. 134. 15c. Gold Bracelet, set 2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £7 10s.
No. 353 a. Dais\' Brooch, 8 Fine Diamonds,
3 Rubies; £4 17s 6d.
No. 125.—15 c. Gold Broocli, 4 Diamonds,
3 Rubies, £2 15s.
No. 115a.—9c. Gold Two Bar Brooch,
Amethyst Centre and Heart, £X 6s.
No. 117.—Pretty 15c. Gold Bar Brooch,
1 Diamond, 2 Kubies, £1 7s 6d.
No. 157.—Elegant Scroll Brooch, 14 Fine
Diamonds, 2 Whole Pearls, 3 Rubies, £6 15s.
No. 130. —15c. Gold Opal and Diamond Bracelet.
New and Handsome Design, £l2 10s.
No. 10 8, —The “iLittle Pet’s ” Bracelet.
90. Gold, 15s. 6d.
No. 148.—Solid Gold Bracelet, 3 Diamonds,
4 Rubies, £4 4s.
No. 756.—The New Lucky Bella. Latest London Novelty.
9c. Gold 5-Bell Bracelet, £llos. Ditto, 3-Bell, £lsa.
No. 201. —Set Links,
9". Gold £1 Is ; 15c. Gold £2.
Silver, 6s 6d.
No. 194 A.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, £1 ss; 15c. Gold,
£2 10s. Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 124A.—16ct. Gold and Amethyst Brooch,
Special Value, JBI 7a 6d.
No. 193 A.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d; 15a
Gold, £1 ss. Silver, 3s 6d.
No. 120.—15 c. Gold, Diamond, and Ruby
Brooch, £2.
No. 130.—Set Heavy 18c. Gold
Links, Set with Fine Diamonds,
£8 10s.
No. 199 A.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, 18s 6d; 15c. Gold,
£ll7s Cd ; Silver, 5s 6d.
m
No. 235.—15 c. Heart, Key and Diamond, £1 12s 6d.
52?
No. 233.—15 c., set Pearls, 15s 6d.
240.—Double Shoe, set Pearls, £1 6s.
No. 286. —Elegant Photo. Frame,
Silver, Cabinet size, 16s 6d.
Plain Silver, Midget size, 4s.
No. 311.—Solid Silver Bon-Bon Dish
6Jin. by sin., £1 7s 6d.
Other Designs, £1 10s.
No. 26SA.—Set of Solid Silver Manicure Instruments ; Nail File,
Scissors, and Cuticle Knife, in Case, 17s 6d.
No. 316. —Solid Silver Sweet Dish
3Jin. long, 12s 6d.
Others, iBs 6d and £1 Is.
No. 298.—Solid Silver Serviette Ring,6s 6(3
Best Silver Plate, 3s 6d and 4s.
~:d
m
No. 246. Telescopic Pencil, very Special Value; Finest Finish. 9-c. Gold, £l lss. Sterling Silver, 10s 6
No. 245. Sterling- Silver. Cedar Pencil Case, 4s. Heavy ,9c. {fold, £1 15s.
No. 290.—Silver Mounted
Toilet Salts Bottle, 2Jin.
high, 6s 6d.
Larger* 7s 6d and 10s 6‘d
sSvewbjv
30JA. Two Solid Silver Gent.’s Hair
; i Brushes, in Case, .13 3s.
No. 297.—501 id Silver
Thimble, Steel lined, 3s 6d.
Others, Is and is 6d.
No. 285. —Finest Cut
Glass, Silver Mounted
Salts Bottle, 16s 6d.
Size larger, 18s 6d.
Small sizes 3s 6d & 4s 6d
Vm
No. : 253.—501 id Silver Match-Box,
10s 6d. Plain, 8s 6d.
. Ijo. 282.— Silver Boot Button Hook, 8a 6d.
Shoe Lift to Match, 10s 6(1.
Glove Button Hook, 2s 6d.
The “Triumph ” Watch for Gei.itleine.ii or Youths is a
Gigantic Triumph over any other low-priced Watch
already in the market. Polished Nickel, Keyless Short
Wind, 18s fid.
m
No. 284.—Cut-Glass Puff Box,
with Solid Silver Top, 3in. high, 411 Is.
Heavy Solid Silver Clasps, New and
JMegant Designs, 16s 6d, 18s 6d, £1 lg
(DRAWN HALF-SIZE).
No. E7l2l.—Best Silver-plated
. SMOKER’S COMPANION,
comprising Tray, Cigar Holder, and 2 Ash
Holders, £1 10s.
No.. 321.—Silver Glove Stretcher, 6|in: lonjr,
Shoe Lift, and Button Hooks, in Morocco Case
£1 10s.
NOTE.
•.The various illustrations shown above, are engraved from the articles direct,
be forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance.
NEW BOOKLET S‘ J 3Xlb&
JD XVJLJIi.
ART DAWSON & CO.,
George-st and Strand, Sydney, w.s.w,
London, Melbourne, Auckland, Perth.


Hvz RaSSnjtiSSco’S Alfaliijc Herbal RenjedkS.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
Mr. O. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness ol the virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12,1888.
To Herr Rassmubsen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
ag well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and l am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair-grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
, Yours truly, G. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmubsen.
Dear Sir, -I can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
oomplaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
. To Herr Rassmussbn.
' Dear Sir,— Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmubsen.
Dear Sir.—Your wonderful Aifaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
1 TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, '99.
Herr Rassmubsen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
•finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them 1 had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribbrt.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health ’’—Free.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
POST OPPI
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Auaiine VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Perm *"f“ t nh a irritability!
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondenoy, fld. posted!
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. ry 1 ' ’
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s BcL
A LFALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES remove any«
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skm. BOXES, and m, posted in s
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 3d. Special Powerful Bourne
Ooune. 435. 6d.
ALPALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Waut of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING...
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s A If cdine Her-
bal Remedies are hereby ■_
cautioned again at
being imposed upon by_
general unscrupulous
persons, who travel
Through the
Tettivg out that they
are 11 err llassmus-
sen, or Herr Rass
mussen's authorised
agents —which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his ReUKd'es,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
■ « ■
Herr Rassmussen, Vp-to-Date Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
A If aline Remedies.
nm
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSIXIUSSeiL
APVK€ FREE
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans KaSSmUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
n
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Eliwilieih-
etreet Sydney, states, on oatli, liow Ins
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory ffigjygfe Declar&uon.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
utreet, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sinoerely declare as follows
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. 1 tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Ra»s-
mussbn’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever si nee.
The ALF ALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and 1 make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Deolared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6a.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion;
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Balts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Aifalina Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr jtassmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., 591169,
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES
AS FOLLOWS:
m
N.Z, WELLINGTON ... 91 Eambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOLGA RDIE Bailey-st. (next Preemason Hotel)
KALGQORLIE Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s, Jeweller)


Safe Security.
A well managed bank, in making loans, requires
security. The well managed railway enforces rules
to guard against accident. The thrifty farmer
fences the field, even though law prohibits cattle
from running at large. Those who ship gold in-
sure against loss. Those who build “fire-proof”
buildings insure against fire.
.The cautious man will also take an inventory of
himself occasionally and see if disease in any form
is threatening. Disease, which (if treated at its
inception) would be harmless, unless checked,
threatens life; and the security against liver and
kidney disease is Warner’s Safe Cure.
This is not an unguaranteed statement. It is
simply the verdict of those who have tried it. It
is safe. A Sure Security against liver and kidney
disease, and can be taken under all circumstances,
ki all conditions, at all ages, with perfect safety.
A PERSONAL EXPERIENCE.
The following experience made a profound im-
pressnm among the many friendsandacquaintances
of Mr. Ivempton, Electrical-Engineer to the Mel-
bourne City Council, G Baldwin St., Malvern, Vic.
He says: “I feel it my duty to testify to the
splendid results of Warner’s Safe Cure and Pills.
Alxiut eight years ago I was taken ill, and tried
different doctors. They did me no good, and for
a fortnight I could not turn in bed. The doctor
informed me that I had kidney colic. I had been
reading one of your pamphlets previous to this,
and I t ought I would give the Safe Cure a trial.
A friend of mine procured me two bottles and one
vial of pills, and before I had finished the second
bottle I was up again, and it drove a lot of gravel
out of my system. The doctor seemed to have no
faith in the Cure, and said I would be troubled
with the same malady again in two years, but I
am very thankful to say that I have never had a
return of it since, and I think eight years is enough
time to prove the cure. I have recommended it
to others, with the best results, and shall continue
to do so. In fact, I think it is the safest and best
medicine under the sun, and am confident that it
saved my life. Wishing you every success.”
+
A. G. Taylor, ex-M.L.A. (N.S.W.), who '
died last week at Callan Park, practised a Theo-
dore Hookish joke once on the Bathurst P.M., ;
Benjamin Lee. This gentleman lived on the Vale
road, a couple of miles out of town. One morning,
early, a number of furniture vans and carts
streamed up in front of the house, and, making
inquiries, Lee found that they had come out to
remove his furniture to a new dwelling. The
drivel’s were much disgusted, and tolerably pro-
fane, on being told that Mr. Lee was perfectly
satisfied with his then residence. On the way
back, the vanmen met butchers and bakers,
drapers and grocers, shoemakers, dustmen, and
undertakers, all pouring towards the Vale-road
residence, with a fixed resolve to do something or
other for Benjamin Lee immediately. The road
was choked with traffic, and a maddened P.M.
was out looking for the gore of parties unknown. I
But it was months before he knew who caused
the trouble, and by that time he had cooled down.
The eagerness of the M‘Lean Shiels Gov-
ernment to appoint its dangerous enemy, Deakin,
as a Federal delegate to Loudon, has led to a fresh
uprising of the Provincial spirit. Lyne also wants
to send away his dangerous ally, Barton ; but
having some shreds of sense he has called a con-
ference of Premier’s to get Barton appointed as a
representative of all the federating provinces. If
two delegates were to be appointed, Barton and
Deakin were practical certainties in any case, but
by rushing things and playing a lone hand the
McShiels Government has only created aggrava-
tion. Also it has created the impression that its
red-hot haste arose out of a desire to get Deakin
hustled on board ship, with his comb in one hand
and his clean shirt in the other, before Turner’s
censure motion (when he is expected to play a big
part) eventuates.
IMPORTANT SALE OF
CITY PROPERTY
With Extensive Frontages to
Pitt and O’Donnell Streets,
Comprising those magnificent buildings now in the
occupation of the BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
Owing to the Bank’s intention to remove its offices to
George-slreet, the above Valuable
Double Frontage Freehold
Will be offered for sale by Public Auction.
On the PITT STREET frontage are the Bank of New
Zealand premises of stone and brick, and in the true
lonic style of architecture. The accommodation con-
sists of a spacious Banking Chamber, Strongroom,
Boardroom, Manager’s, Accountant’s, and nine other
rooms, and is most suitable both in site and internal
arrangement for occupation by an Insurance, Ship-
ping, or Trading Company.
If desired to increase the office accommodation on the
Pitt street frontage, the building is so constructed
that it could easily be added to.
On the O’CONNELL STREET frontage is a substantial
and attractive block of office buildings, known as
Nos. 27, 29 and 81'O’Connell-street, built of brick,
cement front, and containing basement, GROUND
FLOOR (two suites of company offices), and FIRST
FLOOR (7 well-lighted offices).
The land has the following dimensions:
PITT STREET, 78ft. 4in.
O’CONNELL STREET, 59ft.
The through depth lines being 179 ft. and 128 ft. lOin.
respectively.
The attention of Companies, Capitalists, and others is
invited to this sale, as, considering the limited area of the
city propel-, especially in regard to its breadth from east
to west, it is inevitable that property so well situated as
this must rapidly increase in value with the great future
Sydney has before it.
KICHARDSON & WRENCH, LTD., have
received instructions to sell, in conjunction
with Messrs. RAINE & HORNE, at the Rooms,
98 Pitt-street, Sydney,
On FRIDAY, 16th FEBRUARY, 1900,
at 11 o’clock,
The above Pitt and O’Connell Streets Property.
(4379)
BALANCES SHEET
OF THE
BANK OF VICTORIA
LIMITED,
FOB THE UALF-YEAB ENDING 31st I)ECE3I BEli, 1899.
Da. (INCLUDING LONDON BRANCH TO 20th NOVEMBER, 1899.) Cb-
To Proprietors’ Capital, viz.:—
41,676 Preference Shares Paid in Cash to
£lO £416,760 0 0
240,000 Ordinary Shares
Paid up to £2 10s. per
Share £600,000 0 0
Amount of Calls actually
Paid in Cash .. .. 640,249 7 7
1,140,249 7 7
Less 27,750 Shares
forfeited .. .. 70,583 18 0
1,060,665 9 7
1,477,425 9 7
„ Profit and loss .. „ _ .. 65,155 2 5
„ Reserve Fund 70,000 0 0
„ Notes in Circulation 146,528 0 0
„ Hills in Circulation 371,537 12 11
~ Government Deposits—
Not hearing Interest 29,779 11 3
Bearing Interest 456,005 12 10
~ Other Deposits and Interest Accrued—
Rebate on Bills Current and other Moneys—
Not bearing Interest 1,659,015 7 2
Bearing Interest 2,652,011 7 3
„ Balances Due to other Banks .. .. 29,914 14 7
„ Contingent Liabilities as per Contra .. 121,266 14 11
£7,108,639 12 11
By Coined Gold and Sil-
ver and - other Coined
Metal..
„ Gold and Silver in
Bullion and Bar
~ Cash at Bankers’
„ Government, Munici-
pal, and other Public
Stocksand Funds, and
other Debentures ..
~ Bills and Remittances
in Transitu ..
~ Notes and Bills of
other Banks ..
„ Balances due from
other Banks ..
„ Stamps
£957,812 9 10
40,344 18 11
80,546 3 1
217,740 0 0
350,523 0 1
59,047 13 8
40,539 11 3
1,011 5 4
£1,754,705 2 0
Real Estate, consisting of Bank Pre-
mises, at Cost to the Bank ... .. 240,720 14 7
Other Real Estate, at Cost to Bank,
less £38,771 ss. lOd. written off .. 200,151 0 6
Shares in other Companies .. .. 4,050 0 0
Advances, exclusive of provision for
Bad or Doubtful Debts 4,285,528 19 3
Bills of Exchange and Promissory •
Notes Discounted, not included above,
exclusive of provision for Bad or
Doubtful Debts 496,157 1 8
Liabilities of Customers and others in
respect of Contingent Liabilities, as per
Contra i. „ „ „ .. 121,266 14 11
£7,108,639 12 11
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To current Expenses—Head Office and
Sixty-three Branches and Two Sub-
Branches £35,169 11 9
„ Bank Note Tax .. .. „ .. 1,211 8 11
„ Balance .. 65,155 2 5
£101,536 3 1
Which the Directors propose to appor-
tion as follows :
To Dividend on Preference Shares at Five
per cent, per annum 10,419 0 0
„ Keserva Fund (making- it £100,000) .. 30,000 0 0
„ Balanov carried forward to next half-
year .. 24,736 2 5
£65,155 2 6
By Balance from-30th June, 1899 ..
„ Gross Profits for the Half-year ending
31st December, 1599, after deducting
all Interest paid or due to Customers,
and rebating Bills Current, and pro-
viding for Bad and Doubtful Debts ..
By Balance
£37,249 0 8
64,287 2 5
£101,536 3 1
65,155 2 5
£65,155 2 5
RESERVE FUND .
To Balance carried forward „ .. 70,000 0 0
£70,000 0 0
By Balance from 30th June, 1889 ..
70,000 0 0
£70,000 0 0
EDWARD MILLER, CHAIRMAN.
J. D. LAW, GENERAL MANAGER.
fIEW ZEALAND INSURANCE COMPANY.
SHAREHOLDERS in the above Company are
hereby notified that a DIVIDEND of 2s. per
Share, for the Half-year ended 30th November
1899, is now payable at the Company’s Office'
81 Ritt-street, Sydney.
J. A. MINNETT, Manager.
FOR
On SHNTIIS
always use
CANJVOJNITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried Used Always.
CASHMORE GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS,
GAME BAGS, GUN CASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
Hack ham’s JDofj and Cattle
Medicines.
SOLE AGENTS—
mcEEM) BROS. * RICO. [tf.
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney-
MELD'S
BRAIN & NERVE PILLS
A PERFECT REGENERATOR Or THE VITAL POWERS.
I’rioe, 2s. 6d. ; Postage, 2d.
Sole Agents:
WASHINGTON H. SOUL & CO„
IGO PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
TTF.K MAJESTY’S THEATRE. SYDNEY-
Sole Lessee and .Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Cleo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
FTFTn WEEK FIFTH
AND CONTINUED BRILLIANT TRIUMPH OF
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON'S 18th XMAS ANNUAL,
the Gorgeous, Spectacular, Comic, Original Pantomime,
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD,
Or, Keeping the Wolf from the Door.
{3@>“ PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
■Till FA THE HO YA U, SYI) NE Y.
“• Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., K. Stewart, Senior.
THIS and EVERY EVENING, at 8,
TcSS of tbc P’Urberv/illeS,
interpreted by
Miss EDITH CRANE as TESS
Mr. THOMAS KINGSTON as ANGEL CLARE
Mr. TYRONE POWER as ALEC. D’URBERVILLE
and ihe Full Strength of
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co.
T li E A T HE, S Y D N E F.
TO-NIGHT, at 7.45. TO-NIOIIT.
FIFTH WEEK
of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY and his POPULAR
DRAMATIC COMPANY,
in the Stupendous Dramatic Success,
THE POWER AND THE GLORY.
Prices as Usual. Early doors (Cd. extra) open 6.45
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
HITEItION T H E A T K U
Sole Lessee and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLT MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees Next FRIDAY and SATURDAY.
THE CRITERION SEASON AN ASSURED SUCCESS.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION of
MR. HARRY RICKARDS,
Supported by the whole st rength of his Tivoli Minstrels
and Specialty Co., including Miss Noni Rickards, The
8 Newskys, G. W. Hunter, Davy’s Marionettes.
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Our Brilliant New First Part Entitled,
ARCADIA.
Enthusiastic Reception Nightly of Mr. TOM COSTELLO,
in an Entirely New Repertoire.
TO-NIGHT, BEAUTIFUL and BEWITCHING,
The Three MACARTE SISTERS.
LITTLE ALMA GRAY, SPRY and AUSTIN, Wallace
King, Elsie Golding, Lulu Zesch, Will Whitburn, Chas.
W. Cogill, and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
FIFTH WEEK. FIFTH WEEK.
The Burlesque Opera,
FUNNIER than the FUNNIEST PANTOMIME,
“Little Christopher Columbus.”
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as MRS. BLOCK.
MISS GRACIE WIIITEFORD as LITTLE CHRISTOPHER
Full Opera Band—The Excelsior. Troop of Dancers.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., I&, and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place East
- Melbourne.
ss" Superior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minuted’ walk of Town HalL
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'CLELLAND
(«m BOLOKH).
At Poverty Point.
r^le Y er -V infants have got the war fever in Maoriland.
Hie other night at a concert in Wellington, a German
pro.essor was getting “The Star of the hast ” off liis
chest, when a small child very audibly inquired—
Muvver, big man tingin’ Toldiers of Queen ? ”
The humor of the variety man is often rather incom-
prehensible. For instance, Hunter, at Sydney I’alace,
when gassing one night about his domestic affairs casually
remarked, that after many years of married life he had
come to honestly recognise Solomon as the wisest of men
—he had 700 wives, and slept with his fathers. On
another occasion, he was describing how he would paint
creation red if he had only great wealth, and after
describing many terrific things he would do he paused as
if working up a climax that would hit the audience and
take its breath away. Then he took a long breath and
slowly stated: “ Also, I would have butter on my
sausage ! ” Allusions to sausages are always understood
to be more or less funny, and the Palace audience shrieked.
Why is the sausage such a perennial source of mirth ?
The deceased “Dinny” Gunning was one of the best
second-tenor chorus singers in Australasia, but was so
much given to “wetting it” that once when with
Simonsen’s opera company he had to take the pledge for
six months to save his engagement. When the tiuie was
up “ Dinny ” went on a terrific jamboree ; concerning
which happening an Italian named Torselli made the
immortal observation :—“ I not understan’ dis beesness.
Vot good ? Drinkit noting for six inoiit’ ; den driukit
all in two day.”
Windy Wellington (ILL.) went stark, staring mad over
the festivity given to the South African contingent by
Tom Pollard at the Opera House. The Governor and
Digger Diek were present, and after the performance the
company were driven to the camp for supper. According
to a local paper, “ there was next day f a tired feeling’
noticeable over officers and men.” No wonder Voting
Australasia flies to soldiering. Free drinks, free sprees,
fair women, and the chance of a whole skin after all.
Theatrical managements, seemingly, are not much
addicted to troubling about the comfort of the minor
Stated that for the first time in the history of
the house, the present Melb. Royal management has pro-
vided chairs at the back of the stage for the accomodation
of “ extra ladies ’’ and children in the co.
Melba writes as though she were genuinely astounded
by the genius of little Fritz Mueller, the native-German
boy pianist from Melbourne, whom she met in Berlin.
Fritz is a wonder, no doubt about that, but as he hap-
pened to come to light during the Castles boom, there
was no manager to take him in hand anil run the child
around Australia ere he went to Germany. Therefore
Australia has missed its chance of being the first country
to go mad over the Beethoven of the future —which is not
a miss of much importance, anyhow. Fritz Mueller is
German, and Australia is going to hate the Germans
pretty soon without exactly knowing why.
At a recent performance of “ Faust,” at Dublin Theatre
Royal, when Martha, after the duel scene, was bending
over the prostrate Valentine, and piteously exclaiming,
“ Oh, what shall I do?” a voice from the gallery advised,
“ Unbutton his weskit.” A plain, sensible idea like that
never strikes the stage mourner. Her one inspiration,
when her lover is wounded, is to let her hair down and
throw her white arms in the air, so as to show her bangle.
“ Young Pro.” : When Kemble was playing “ Richard
III.,” one night, the part of Lord Radcliff was badly
hashed up. Radcliff should say (Act 5, scene 3) to King
Richard’s “ Who’s there ? ” “Radcliff, my Lord; 'Tis I.
The early village cock has twice done salutation to the
morn.” But, owing: to Radcliff forgetting his lines and
losing his punctuation, the following painful remarks took
placef—Richard (from his tent): “Who goes there?”
Radcliff : “’Tis I, the early village cock”—(long and ter-
rible pause). Then Richard, after prompting audibly to
no purpose : “ Then whv the hell don’t you crow ? ”
“.Stroller”: Writer was a member of a small co. tour-
ing the West. The manager left three of us stranded 300
miles from Sydney—penniless, and all credit wrecked.
Company had been billed a hundred miles down the line.
We three stranded ones gave a show in the town we were
left in—raising our fares to this second town. Arrived
there again penniless. All hotels required payment in
advance. One of us, a lady, had a brooch, but pawnshops
were unknown. At last, a friendly squash-seller nego-
tiated a loan. Then we took the hall, got the bills left at
the hotel by our absconding agent, billed the town
thoroughly for the large-cast melodrama previously an-
nounced, and opened. I took the money, the other man
the tickets, and the lady jumped up and down and
made turmoil behind the curtain, and battered things on
the floor to represent the alleged co. She also played an
overture behind thie curtain. We raised the latter and
discovered a breakfast table set in a landscape—all we
had, and I and the lady went on for a comedietta—in
deadly fear. They seemed to enjoy it in a bewildered sort
of way. Then the other man went in to explain, and we
gave them songs, recitations, anything for another hour
to a chorus of jeers, hoots, and catcalls. At the end we
lowered the curtain, got out by the back way, made a
detour to our lodgings and counted the money. It
panned out —fares to Sydney. We got away while the
town was still considering whether to tar and feather us
or sool a dog on to us.
The late W. G. Wills (author of “ Charles 1.,” “ Faust,”
and other plays produced by Irving, and brother of Free-
man Wills, the adapter of “ The Only Way,” recently
played at Sydney Royal) was not conspicuous for the
frequency of his ablutions. A friend met him in the
street one day, and, observing some j oke of egg on Wills’s
beard, said, “ I’ll wager I can tell what you had for break-
fast this morning. ’ “ Yes,” said Wills ; “ well, what had
I?” “Eggs.” “There j-ou’re out of it!" said Wills;
•“ I haven t had eggs for three days ! ”
According to the police intelligence, scarecrow dancer
Johnny Coleman was lately hauled up, as if lie were a
large stone going to the top of a tall building, at Kalgoor-
lie court, charged with threatening to remove Emile
Lazerne, of the same company, to a better land. Com-
plainant did not appear. Johnny had better come back
from the weary wastrel West, for the East has need
for comic singers who are comic, and has too many patter-
■rotic bawlers, hardly one of whom is even threatened with
music.
“ Melb.” : I have just been chatting with George
itidgway, as he takes checks at the Alexandria pit, for
the “ Cloches de Comeville.” He has a side-show in the
bill-sticking line, and is not so unlucky as Cerberus Bur-
ford, or Denvil, who took checks at the Drury Lane pit,
while Phelps acted Manfred, Denvil having been the
original of that part in the same theatre. Ridgway came
to Australia 34 years ago with the Lenton troupe, in-
cluding two of his brothers, also Leon Samwells and
Horatio Nelson. George was then the great performer on
the Flying Trapeze. Now he sticks the flying bill, and
does It well, too.
“ Haresfoot ” ; “ The Only' Way ” embodies, to m v idea,
the finest situation on the boards, taken from Dumas’
“ Chevalier de Maison Rouge.” Yet Dumas missed the
thing in the climax to his novel, where the prototvpes of
Dickeus’s Carton and Darnay both suffer under the
guillotine. In- the dramatisation the brilliant idea
occurred to Dumas of making Lorin, the scapegrace,
sacrifice himself for his friend Maurice. The “Chevalier
de Maison Rouge ” was-first acted in Paris not long before
the Revolution of 1848, and is said to have had a large
share in producing it. There was a tremendously suc-
cessful revival of the play on the verge of the Franco-
German war, and it came to the fore again in the
Boulanger epoch Dickens complained of Watts-Phillips
taking the finale of the “ Dead Heart ” from the “ Tale of
Two Cities,” but “ Maison Rouge ” inspired both.
“ S.S.” desires to strongly disagree with “ Melb.” (Bul-
letin, 20/l/’00). He says : “ The Macarte Sisters have
been a very mild success in Melbourne. The family' was
discovered by Rickards during his recent chase through
Europe, and is represented by three stout, silent, Teu-
tonic sisters who do unemotional things on a wire. After
the gifted vision whose feet were beautiful upon the high
way at the Royal when the Flying Jordans hung out
there, the woman posing on an invisible string must per-
form like an angel and have the looks of a pleasant little
devil to touch the popular heart. By the way, it was the
Jordan’s wire-walker, under another name, who knocked
London bj' ascending to a trapeze in full street costume,
and stripping to the skin-tights during picturesque aerial
evolutions.
“ S.S.” : Johnny Sheridan’s Mrs. Block does not knock
as his Widow O’Brien did, probably for the reason that
Mrs. Block is just the Widow 10 years younger, and with
all the humanity rasped off her. I remember the Widow
with respect, in spite of the fact that I never saw her in
decent company, because she was a human document.
The pinched waist, the fashionable Worth gowns,. the
rouge, and the obvious effort to be femininely attractive,
bring Sheridan’s present job down to the level of the
ordinary female impersonator, and often provoke that
tire 1 feeling.


Business Announcements.
fjellular “y^ertex”
For Ease,
Health and
Comfort.
TJaderwear.
S3r DURING SUMMER.
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc., in Lisle, Cotton, Silk and
Cotton, Silk and Wool, Natural Wool,
Merino, and Pure silk.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
mr CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Patterns posted on application.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
• Sole Agents : 73 & 75
David graham $ Co., Kins s;Ly
(between George and York streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and lOUNG. V
Wonderful Value —a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of vour character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed). Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. fid.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716)4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
XJSB
SpooQgr’S
„^ooNe» :< .
jmuravißESSK
l FOR
I BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
:: OF ML DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECIIONS FOR USE
hTuftmimmutmuuiiiimmUßi]
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation.
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
Medical.
Too Fat
ANTI«
CORPOLENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
unnecessary “ Obesity and its Cure, an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address— L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
HOW TO PRESEME THE ETESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SIHGLETOH’S EYE OIHTMEMT cur ®? al ify e
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
I Cure Fits
You are ]
not asked <
to spend j
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. R00T, 38, Endsleigh Gdns., LQ NDO N.
Iks LiqCior Habit.
i N INTERESTING PAMPHLET on the
A Disease of Drunkenness and its cure by
ECicrasV
will be sent free (sealed) on
application to the EUCRASY
CO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney, or 271 Collins-
street, Melbourne.
N B Hucrasy is registered by the N.S.W.
Registrar-General at the Trade Marks Office, and
is the only remedy which can be given secretly
(i.e., without the subject’s knowledge) with cer-
tainty of success.
nm
GRIMA' ! LT’S
mDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Exploration, Asthma, Nervous
r'ou»hs ‘ Catarrh, 'deep es<ness and Oppression
humeffi’atelv reliev ■' hi GHIMAO LT & CO’S
Indian Cigarett js. bold by all Chemists.
The Life of the System.
lEUDM SPA.
S. FREEMAN # SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
REGISTERED
KsSIMStP
ROSES
<£XnEffectiveCuri
Bucht Inflamed
Weak Eyes Dimness E t . c
53! GEORGE ST
£S!S
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR ——-
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Classes.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc-
cess on the Eyes of
Cattle, Sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
n
m
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
MNH SOOTHES THE ACHING PART
Does not harden or change colour.
HOMOCEA CURES
CUTS,
BURNS,
PILES,
SORES,
BRUISES,
SORE EYES,
ECZEMA,
CORNS,
RINGWORM,
TOOTHACHE, MOSQUITO BITES &c„
&c.
HOMOCEA EMBROCATION.
Absolutely ti:e best thing of its kind in the
World for RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA.
STIFF JOINTS, SORE THROAT, PAINS IN CHEST, SIDE, or BACK,.
Put up in Collapsible Tubes in two sizes.
Sold by all Storekeepers, General dealers, <$ Chemists.
1
When
writing
please
mention
Tiie
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Svdnev’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
! LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
! They impart vigor and potency to every function,
■brace up the system, give bloom Jo the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extrr powerful, with suspensory
a.ia jhments 3 8 0
Ladies’ Bells and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send foi
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? It so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for 1 CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILD. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Ilousemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Britain, 1/ljd. per box. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Earringdon-street, London, England.
Agents-. ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green lat el on iach box. (Regd. copyright).
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE. Follow
the Footsteps of the Wise, and Buy the Best, Cheapest,
and most Stylish Clothing in Australia from
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
252 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station).
50UO pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to Order, at 42/-,
is marvellous made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Serges, fast colors,
is perfect fitting, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cycling Suits, 35/-
Ridingßreeches,2s/-. Water-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Riding Habits, etc.
Wesupply Ready-made Men’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-. Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serire Trou-
sers. 5/11. Tweed Over-
C 3
. ■;
Sei’S, D/11. iweeu v/vci-
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15?. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys' Clothing in Australia. Ele-
gant Tennis Shirts from 2/6. Undressed White Shirts,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 3.3. Warm Travelling
Bugs, 13 6. Gent’s splendid Balmoral Boots, 6/6, 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hats, 4/6, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 66. Caps, 1/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1/-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. And all
classes of Gent.’s Mercery.
We like to write letters, so please don’t be afraid to ask
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy of Dress,
also Patterns of all hinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
posted Free. Write for them.
Warner’s
■Safe
nm
for all forms of
Kidney & Liver Disorders
& BRIGHT’S DISEASE;
FREE
PAMPHIET
FROM
H.H. WARNER & C 9 LIP
MELBOURNE, AUST.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Sinn, P>'es,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache Neuialyic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and blun Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. IK'd each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT &. COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
“ Takes two to make a bargain.” That s the rule.
The two will never change—a rogue and fool.
“ N.” : Did you notice that case in the
London newspapers of a few weeks ago ? In the
height of the rejoicing about one of the British
victories over the Boers, a London publichouse-
lceeper of an inferior order refused to serve two
sober English Queen’s soldiers, in their glorious
redcoat uniform, with liquor, on the ground that
Tommy Atkins drove away Respectable custom !
What a commentary on the poor Absent-Minded
Beggar and the real esteem in which he is held, as
contrasted with the lying lip-hypocrisy.
Our own Beggar—not the Absent-Minded
one :
Yes, it's been a strugglin’ Christmas ; things ’as been
uncommon blue.
And yet the ’at was goin’ round orlright
For the families of the soldiers-lucky dorgs ; while me
and you
Ain’t never ’ad no bloomin’ dad to fight.
This ’ere Kiplin’s done it, blarst 'im ;
If I knew the bloke I d arst him
If ’e’d show me ’ow to do it, if it’s easy stuff to write.
I dop’t blame the people givin’ to the widders and the
wives,
It onlv seems quite nat’ral-like and fair ;
But I see they don’t start givin' till some po try stun
arrives
’Bout an “ Absent-Minded Beggar” over there.
Some’ow Kiplin’ finds their purses
With ’is orlright, slap-up verses,
That’s why I’m tryin’ po’try—’av yer any think to spare t
My dad, ’e fought no battles, yet ’e fought most all ’is
life
To bring up me and ’arf-a-dozen more ;
And me mother, ’ow she ’elped 'itn in ’is struggle and is
strife 1 —
Now both of ’em, God bless em’s, gone before.
Pity Kiplin’ ’adn’t known us,
’Cos we’re same in blood and bone as
The widders and the kiddies of the soldiers at the war.
Melb.
J.A.P.


A SHATTERED NERVOUS SYSTEM
Neuralgia, Indigestion, Weak and Hopeless.
compi .ICATIONS ALL YIELD TO CLEMENTS TONIC
An Influential Cure Worthy of Careful Perusal.
The Case of*
Mrs, JOHN GEDDES.
for the Keivloicn Chronicle.)
When the tram cars pass by Enmore they
speed with a rush down a gentle incline,
skirting a park, over which the traveller
catches glimpses of the distant sea. Pre-
sently the train gives a sudden swerve round
a bend, and the guard shouts, “Victoria
Koad 1” It was here our reporter descended,
almost at the door of Mr. Geddes, a well-
known storekeeper of the Marrickville
district. He inquired for Mrs. Geddes, who
was, fortunately, at home, yet who answered
the reporter’s enquiries with some little
hesitation, as she does not like publicity ; at
the same time her feeling of thankfulness for
a remarkable recovery from dire sickness
was so great that she thought it only right
to others, placed as she had been, to put
her hesitation on one side, and make known
the true facts of the case.
“ We were living at Bundanoon at that
time,” said Mrs. Geddes, “and owing to
some unknown cause I got into a bad state
of health, continued to get worse and
worse, till my plight was quite pitiful.
This lasted for two years.”
“ How did your sickness affect you, Mrs.
Geddes ?” asked the reporter.
“My most serious trouble was indiges-
tion, which at last came to such a stage
that I could not keep any food on my
stomach. Even when I tried to drink a
little put-e water I should retch it up at
once ; and the water that came up when I
vomited Would be Quite black to look at.
showing, I think, that my digestive organs
were in a shocking and deplorable state.
And yet all the time I had a strong desire
and craving to eat, and I dared not. There
was ever present a feeling of oppression and
weight upon my chest, and a sharp pain
between the shoulders that pierced right
through my body, so that it filled me with
apprehensions that my lungs were affected,
and that I should soon be a victim to con-
sumption. My limbs were in a constant
tremor, my heart palpitating with distress-
ing throbs. Neuralgia came in my face
and forehead, and was so bad at times 1
thought 1 should go out of my mind. And,
with my general collapse, my eyesight
suffered ; clouds of mist hid my sight when
I tried to use my eyes for any length of
time. The natural colour of my skin
changed to a deep yellow, like one suffering
from jaundice, and I would almost have
pissed for a mulatto. I am sure that my
nervous system was shattered. 1 was
weak, hopeless, and out of heart, and came
finally to that helpless condition that 1
could not crawl as far as the back garden.
As it was, I utterly despaired of getting
better. I became very frightened, the least
noise upsetting me. 1 even dreaded, from
sheer nervousness, to go into the next
room.”
“ Did you not see a doctor or try remedies
of any kind ? ” enquired the reporter.
“ No ; Bundanoon, as perhaps you know,
is nine miles from Moss Vale, and the
charge made by a doctor coming that
distance in the country is quite beyond the
means of all but rich people. Bor my
indigestion J tried a number of the remedies
so much advertised as cures for that com-
plaint, but they did me no good whatever.
And in the same way I tried the local
remedies for the neuralgic pains in my face
and forehead without benefit, for I did
not understand then, as I do now, that my
neuralgia was only one of the symptoms of
a deeply seated malady and impoverished
blood.”
“But you found relief at last, did you
not, Mrs. Geddes ? ”
“Yes; when 1 had got fairly tired of
trying one thing and then another, it
happened that we were talking to a friend
of ours at Bundanoon, and who, having
some medical knowledge and experience,
was much consulted in the district. He
advised me very strongly to try Clements
Tonic ; and it was a happy day for me
when I did so. When 1 had bought a
bottle at the store, and commenced to tako
it according to the directions, I found a
marvellous change for the better after the
first few doses; and as 1 continued to take
Clements Tonic, all my troubles and pains
grew lighter and more easy, till my good
health returned. Before I had finished
taking the first bottle I could eat freely
without vomiting or retching my food up.
The neuralgic pain, the heart trouble, the
impaired vision, the pain between the
shoulders, and the wretched, despondent
feeling, together with my nervous weakness,
all yielded and faded away before the
recuperative influence of Clements Tonic ;
and when I found u hat the remedy was
doing for me, I stuck to it, and persevered
with it, and long after I had recovered, and
felt quite well, I continued to take Clements
Tonic, to make my’ recovery doubly sure,
for, being well again, nothing was so dread-
ful to me as the thought of a relap-e. So I
made sure to properly clinch the cure.”
“ And you found your cure genuine, Mrs.
Geddes, und not a mere flash in the pan ? ”
enquired the reporter.
“ Yes ; and after that I had the best ot
health for several years, so I think my cure
was as genuine as a cure could I e ; and you
may be sure I have recommended Clements
Tonic whenever I had the opportunity, and
this often occurs, for, as you see, my
husband and I are in business.”
“Ate you willing that this testimony
should be made public?”
“ Yes; I feel that it is only right for me
to do so, for it may be the means of telling
some sufferer, with symptoms like my own,
that a sure cure is waiting in Clements
Tonic.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Maggie Geddes, of Cook-road, Marrckviße. In
the Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly ami
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four fo ios and con-
secutively nunihered from one to four, and that it
contains and is a t rue anil faithful account of m.v illness
and cure hyClements Tonic, amt also contains my full
permi'sion to puhli-h the same in any way: and I
make I his solemn declaration voluntarily, nn.l wit limit;
receiving any payment, conscientiously believing
the same to he true, and l>y virtue of the provisions of
an Act made and passed in the ninth year of the
reign of her present Ma jesty, intituled “ An Act for
the more effectual abolition of Oalhsnnd Affirmations
taken and made in the various Departments ot the
Government of New south Wales, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the supmession
of voluntary and-extra judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Marrickville this Ist day of Jn'y, ono
thousand eight hundred and nine nine, before me
\Y. J. AIeDO.VNEI.L, J.R
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
the FA.MOTJS HE3MEHY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
'Sorene^iTth^ChirLnmW rm'f'? 6 T '""T? at itsi wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
fortirm in all ivi,m 'irrL^ P » Vn H ! J el, 8'» tful an . d . lluinediat e r ehef ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
never g been 1k nm ™ IT?»£•„? t'«e tin oat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
and I Complete *C urtf is* certain °° Ug 13 haVe been properly treated Wlth thls medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Fomvarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally .
ZETZ-SPA WATER
“Tb€ RCALMACKAY”
FINEST OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & A.ttwood, Solo Proprietors.
(LIMITED),
DAPTO (Lake Illawarra), near
SYDJXTEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
ov
FINE SILVER.
m
&'Y«Sfes
MAKERS OP
“ S, Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
‘ ILL AW ARRA”
..BRAND OP..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEF
highest prices paid for ores, prompt cash settlement on AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
For all information regarding Ratos, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg,
Manager, The Smelting Company of
Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
Food
INFANTS
9
Benger’s Food is sold in various sized
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesule of all Wholesale Houses.
“‘Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


■
s m
WBmmm
tie
iP»«
MtiiSS
m
W. ;
rf:l
IS
' pevei rqind baby ! Jt will soon grow now.
‘HARLENE’
% HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair*
Promotes the Growth*
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directions for use in
zo languages supplied with ever) bottle.
t 2/6,and (triple 2 6 size) 4T6 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
‘THE STOMACH GOVERNS THE WORLD.’
General Gordon *
BRAWiHS Ail OVERDRAFT OR THE BANK OF LIFE.
.
}Y;
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement,
breathing Impure Air, too rich food, Alcoholic
drink, Gouty, ~ Rheumatic, dnd . other blood
poisons, Fevers, Chills, Feverish Colds, Throat
Irritation, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Head
ache, Skin Eruptions, want of appetite, Soui
ness of Stomach, &e., See:;-Use
Pleasant, Soothing, Cooling. Health-giving, Refreshing, and Invigorating.
NO HOUSEHOLD OR TRAVELLER’S BAG SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
TN HOT OR FOREIGN CLIMATES ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ is
-L INVALUABLE. It is the BEST and SIMPLEST preparation for
regulating the action, of the LIVER that has yet been discoveied, and relieves
the system of effete GOUTY, RHEUMATIC matter, the groundwork .ol
FEVERS and other diseases, which, if retained, poisons the blood and pro-
duces the most disastrous consequences. It allays nervous excitement, and'
restores the nervous system to its proper condition by NAI URAL MLANS.
The effect of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’ upon any DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION. See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you
have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S PATENT.
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
At every International Exhibition since 1851, wherever
it has been in competition.
Has invariably been awarded the Highest Distinction at
the disposal of the Judges.
The Testimony of Eminent Analytical
Chemists :
From Dr. REDWOOD, Fh.D.,
F.1.C., F.C.S., &c.,
Late Professor of Chemistry and Pharmacy to the
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
“ My analytical and practical experience
of Pears’ Soap now extends over a very
lengthened period—nearly 50 years—during
which time I have never come across
another toilet soap which so closely realises
my ideal of. perfection ; its purity is such
that it may be used with perfect confidence '
upon the tenderest and most sensitive skin
—even that of a new-born babe.”
CHAS. R. C. TICHBORNE, Esq.,
LL.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.,
Lecturer on Chemistry at Carmichael College of
Medicine, Dublin, and Chemist to the Apothe-
caries’ Hall of Ireland.
“I have made three separate and in-
dependent analyses of Pears’Soap, obtain-
ing the samples myself at the ordinary
retail shops, and from these examinations
lam enabled to certify to its purity. It is
made in a most perfect manner, and is free
from any causticity—to persons of delicate
skin a question of vital importance. Being
free from all adulteration with water its
durability is really remarkable. I cannot
speak too highly of it, for it strikingly
illustrates the perfection of toilet soap.”
STEVENSON McASAM, Esq..,
Fh.D., &c.,
lecturer on Chemistry, Surgeons’ Hall,
Edinburgh, Scotland.
“ I have made careful analyses of Pears’
Soap, which I have obtained indiscrimi-
nately at different shops in Edinburgh,
and lean certify to its being a pure and
genuine soap, free from admixture with
any foreign substances, and practically
devoid of causticity. It combines detergent
with emollient properties in a high degree,
and it may therefore be used with great
advantage for toilet and bath purposes,
especially in the case of children and others
whose skin is soft and delicate, and liable
I to be affected by the impure and caustic
| nature of ordinary soap.”
Pin Lung’s Missus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pin Lung’s garden was an oasis in a wilderness of
sand, sludge, tailings, and broken reef. There
was a battery somewhere up the creek ; the
mellowed drumming of its stamps catne down the
gully in the motionless noons, when the raw sun-
shine smote rock and sand and ridge pitilessly,
and it seemed to soften the silence. Set out in
grim oblongs, green as vegetation still watered by
a widow’s tears, the garden lay. Amid the
drab grass and desolate gums it seemed a fresh,
cool, verdant Paradise, but if you ventured too
near the green graves under that belief, subtle
doubts came up to assail you through the hot,
glassy atmosphere, and you took to your nose and
fled, realising again that beauty is rooted in decay,
and in the midst of life we are in death.
In a corner of the garden furthest from the
creek, piled against the fence, was what seemed to
be an accumulation of miscellaneous refuse thrown
there in the course of years. This was really
Pin Lung’s home. Here Pin Lurig fed and
smoked and slept. From the thick of it he issued
mysteriously, blinking at the sun, a celestial
Adam without an Eve.
Pin Lung grew “ cahhagee ” and “callot for
the miners down the creek and over the ridges,
and for the township up the creek, and prospered
by reason of a brutal industry and an infantile
audacity in the matter of charges. Pin’s habitual
attitude towards bis masculine customers up the
creek was one of conciliation ; he had always the
pose of a man forgetting and forgiving, and, truth
to tell, he luid much to forgive. He smiled inces-
santly and babbled unintelligibly, and pressed
little presents upon the men, and they in turn
paid him through the nose for every thing they did
not steal ; abused him, patronised him, and :l £ r £ed
among themselves that “Paddy” was not a dashed
bad lot for a dashed Chow.
To the women in the township Pin Lung was
quite another Chinaman. To them ho was the
piteous innocent in the land of guile ; he compre-
hended nothing that did not suit his book, and
misunderstood the expostulations of crafty house-
wives with the passionless suavity of his own clay
god.
But the Chinaman was not happy. There was
no compatriot within visiting distance, and Pin s
apparent friendship with the Caucasian was, after
all, only akin to the conversation of a horse with
a human being. It is not good for man to live
alone, even if he parts his hair into a tail and is
the whole support of a god entirely devoted to
his welfare.
Pin thought the matter over for fourteen years,
and then he set to work and built himself a decent
two-roomed slab-hut, which he furnished in
European- at least Dogleg European—fashion,
and then he called in Squint Higgins, and said :
“You come longa my place, min’ my cabbagee,
my callot, dlive ’way fellah what come stealum,
mine give tlen shilly one day, tlen sliilly one more
day.”
“My coagulated oath !” said Higgins.
“ Welly goo’, you come t’mollo’. Me go way
til* while.”
“Righto, Paddy.”
Squint Higgins was the least remorseful thief,
from Dogleg to the Day of Judgment, and Pin
Lung knew it. Squint had instantaneous designs
on Pin Lung's hidden riches, and Pin Long
m lH q BB d it; but the gardener shaved Ins great
sweep of neck, and polished his varnished
head and went on his journey with » con-
fiding smile and the inscrutability of Asia a
the back of his narrow black eyes. Higgins
immediately seized upon pick and shove),
and went digging by and large in Pin. Lungs
unbroken land seeking buried treasure. 1-or two
days lie worked with the ardour of a madman
worked from daylight to dark, and then continued
his quest by candlelight, pausing only to hurl
clods and curses at the wondering men who name
to gaze in solemn amazement over the tone o .
Higgins was the tired man of the creek, and the
popular curiosity was only to be expected, but
Hig! jins was large and powerful, and was energetic
in combat, and it happened that no predatory
hand was laid upon “ cabbagee,” or ‘ callot, or
“onlin ” of Pin Lung’s. . ~
Pin Lung returned to a disappointed and dis-
gusted man on the morning of the third dav—
returned to find £5 worth of work done m his
garden and all the barren land turned up to the
quickening sun, and he smiled a smile in which
Higgins could read nothing to justify an assault,
keen as he was for it. Higgins became discreet:
“ I thought I’d be doing a bit av work t am
me money,” lie-said. ~
“ Welly goo' ! welly goo’! welly ni ! said 1 in.
“ Lil’ wile me givem you heap lot potato.”
The gardener had not returned alone. I here
was a lady at his heels —a stout, fair woman of
about. 40, with a beery ruddiness in her cheeks,
and a ready smile denoting that callous cheeilul-
ness indestructible in some fair women.
“My missy,” said Lung. “Me bin mally down
Bailnsdale.”
Pin Lung’s marriage created something of a
sensation along the creek, and that night a tin-
kettling party visited the garden and performed
industriously for two hours, when the bridegroom
rewarded the musicians with five shillings, and
ten men walked four miles to spend it in beer.
For a time it was thought the Chinaman had
made another excellent bargain. Mrs. P. Lung
was industrious and cleanly, and seemed to thrive
in the rank atmosphere of the garden. In her
leisure, she read through amazing piles ot LONDON
Journals, revelling sympathetically in t! e elegant
lives of iong, willowy peers and wonderful
duchesses, and peace was with Pin Lung for many
days. Then, suddenly, the missus exhibited a
new phase of character. One afternoon, the men
at the pnddler were startled by shrill cries of
mortal agony rising from Lung’s Eden, and the
echoes of the Celestial’s grief travelled far and
wide in the hills. The population of the gully
rushed to Pin Lung’s fence, and there watched
the progress of events in appreciative calm.
Mrs. Pin was laboriously pursuing her lord and
master up and down and round about the garden,
armed with a hoe-handle. Pin Lung’s eye was
blackened, and his head was bleeding, and Mrs.
Lung was amusingly drunk. The lady’s habitual
smile had given place to an expression of diabolical
hate, and she was bent on manslaughter, She
charged at Pin Lung over the “callot "beds, she
ploughed through the “ gleen pea,” and floundered
among the “ letisse.e,” and havoc and rum went
with her. She trampled down the turnips, rolled
the cabbages flat, and kicked Pin s trim beds all
over the place. She gathered rich soil and vege-
tables as she went, long strings of scarlet-runners
clung to her legs, ruined tomatoes bespattered her,
and, floundering or charging, she repeated, in a
thin, breathless squeal:
“ I’ll murder you ! I’ll murder you ! 111 murder
y °l*in Lung danced before her, dodging her blows,
in an agony of terror and distress. When Airs.
Pin went down, kicking and scrambling amongst
his tender young plants, his invincible greed ovci
came his fear of death, and he rushed to ter,
dragging her to her feet with the agonised chat-
tering and the plenteous tears of a ruffled mon v( y.
This was his wife’s chance, and she smote him
many times with the hoe handle ere he could
break away again. At length Mrs. Lung went
down heavily among the marrows and melons,
and in her struggles got so tangled up with the
strong strands of the vines that 1 in deeinec
wise to leave her in the trap, and with low
piteous complainings he went fiercely to worli
repairing the damage she had done, whilst his
wife cursed monotonously annmst the cueumbeis.
Mrs. Pin Lung now assumed the tone of a good
soul d-solate and heart-broken, and she swore
with deepest pathos. _
“Oh, the beast!” she moaned sadly and
weakly—“oh, the yellow beast to rob a pore
woman of her pore drop o’ comfort. Oh, the
beast, an’ me that sick. Oh Ito take a sick
woman’s medicine—me that wouldn t touch 1
too—savin’ by the doctor’s orders. Oh . the
heathen. Ob ! oh ! ” Then she lapsed into cooing
and incoherent profanity, and from that into
Scenes akin to the above became quite common
at Pig Creek in the course of the next few months.
Mrs. Pin Lung remained a peaceful and reason-
able woman in her sober moments, but when
filled with ruin she raised chaos on 1 in .bungs
hearth, and ran riot among his vegetables and
the cry of Pin Lung in his agony ceased to be
matter of any particular interest to the lmtnedia e
neighbours. Still there were occasional pleasure-
excursions from Dogleg and other places, peop e
travelling miles to witness the show when Mrs.
Lung was “on the burst.” Pin tried Ins best to
keep the drink from his wife, but recognise a
length that it was impossible to keep his wife
from the drink, and then began to trunk of other
things.
Pin Lung had a horse and spring cart to carry
his vegetables to the township, and when his wife
thirsted unconquerably she took the horse an
rode to Dogleg. Twas a curious sight to see
Mrs. Lung poised fearfully on Lung s dreamy old
razor-back, clinging on by skin and hair, Roms
forth to drink ; but it was a stranger sight still to
see her returning drunken. Mrs. Lung usua y
started from the township on top of her hone, but
invariably fell or slid off in the course of the hrst
mile, and then it was her habit to take Carbine
solemnly by the tail, and leave the rest to him and
Providence. It was no uncommon thing in the
vicinity of Dogleg or Pig Creek for residents and
wayfarers to see, by moonlight or in the giey
dawn, a stout, florid woman going over the hills,
holding the long tail of a woeful old grey horse,
and so stumbling and running Mrs. Lung was
wont to go hortie. - , ,
Tim gardener bore his sorrow for nearly twelve
months, persistently beseeching his god for
relief, but no relief came, and Pin Lung took
the matter in his own hand. On a very hot
afternoon in November he went forth, and found
Higgins sleeping by Ins work under a tree,
snoring like a lagoon full of frogs. Pin Lung
shook the sleeper into consciousness.
“ You wantee job? ” he said.
“ fto ! ” grunted Squint. “ No, bedam .
And he would have slept again, but Pin .Lung
shook more vigorously. . . . ,
“ Welly easy job, he said insinuatingly.
“ Welly goo’ pay you.”
Higgins sat up and was drowsily profane for a
minute.
“ What d’ ye want? .
“ You come along beatee my missus !
“Wha-at?”
“You come up si’ my place, beatee my missy,
me pav you.”
“Bate the missus?”
“ All li’. You bin mally yourself, you know
how. My missy beatee me one heap lot,, you
beatee my missy.” Ping Lung went through the
business in pantomime. “ You beatee my missie
all same, me pay you.” , ..
Higgins thought the matter over heavily for the
space of thirty seconds.
“ How much ? ”
“ What,' 1 bate a woman for five bob? Wha-at
d’yez take me for ? ” .
“ Sickshilly.” This pleadingly.
“ Get out! Look here ; mane it tin bob, can t
yon ? ” . <,..
“You give my missy plenty . .
Pin Lung swore awkwardly, and misplaced his
oaths in an inexcusable manner, hut there was no
mistaking the earnestness of his desires.
“ I will, Pin Lung—l’ll bate her as if she was a
wife of me own.”
“Welly goo’! Welly -goo’! Me pay ten
shilly. Come ’long si’my-place, she bleak heap
things. She swear heap.” ,
Higgins went with his employer, and found
Mrs. Ping Lung raging among .the crockery. He
took lier in hand at once, and like a man of some
experience anions women he larruped her 3 U
ously and thoroughly, without heat, and with a
discriminating eye to reformatory effect. Lxact y
how he thrashed her is not for me to say, but Ira
Lung stood by throughout the proceed mgs nod-
din«' grave approval, and when Higgins ,
had done his duty and had locked the wayward
wife in the bedroom, Pm Lung paid him his fee
with many expressions of satisfaction and grati-
tude.
was called in by Pm Lung many times
afteAhat, and he conscientiously whipped Mrs.
Lung at ten shillings each. Higgms was a big
man, and the virago was helpless in Ins hands,
but although this process saved Pin Lung s skin
and preserved his vegetables it did not serve to
convert Mrs. Pin Lung to teetotalism ; she con-
tinued to get drunk. It is even alleged that in
the end she rather delighted in the thrashings she
received at the hands of the hireling Higgins. . .
Pin now enjoyed almost complete im-
munity from his spouse, but the process was
costly, and he soon wearied of it, and recom-
menced supplicating bis god. After about five
months, Higgins began to rejoice in a reliable
source of income that entailed very little exertion,
and he was how on the footing of a tuim.y
physician in Pin Lung’s home. Meanwhile Pin
Lung supplicated and brooded, and.disguised the
acuteness of the serpent under the. diowsy apathy
of. the frog.


A WOMAN’S BACK.
ZDO-AJST’S
Backache Kidney Fills
The Tonic For Every Woman!
>yssk
kvVttVAiAViMI
%VAM# Vd
*;«‘v
wm
mm
mi
‘.•XvSj*
.mv
&&SS&4
\ &!«»
.
. • ■
n:
m.
m
//
//
7
X//.
r*
//"
Mrs. M. A. BISHOP, OF LAUNCESTON.
Household duties should not be a drudgery—
they are not when women are strong and well.
But where backs are aching and heads throbbing
as though they would break, even the joys of life
are turned to drudgery.
Do you know what makes the backaches, and
headaches, and the all-tired-out feeling?
Sick kidneys. They are the filters of the blood,
and cannot stand all the work put upon them.
Backache is the cry of the kidneys for help—and
it is a warning of more serious trouble to follow.
Unless this backache is taken in time, it will run
into urinary troubles, Diabetes, Bright’s Disease,
and —death.
Women do not need to suffer—there is a remedy
for backaches and for all other symptoms of kid-
ney disease —Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
They should be used to stop the progress of any
and all disorders of the kidneys and urinary
organs, and may be thoroughly depended on.
Mrs. M. A. Bishop, whose picture is given
above, of 153 St. John Street, Launceston, Tas-
mania, said she had suffered from kidney disease
for five years. “My kidneys were very weak,”
she writes. “My back was very bad. It ached
so dreadfully that I felt tired out after doing the
least thing. The pains would at times work up
between my shoulders, but they were worst in the
small of my back. The kidneys were very weak
indeed, as certain symptoms showed. Oh, I tried
everything, liniments, plasters, and many medi-
cines, but nothing ever reached the kidneys like
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. They seemed to
act directly on the kidneys and on them alone.
They strengthened my kidneys, helped my back,
and have done me a world of good—more than
anything I have ever taken. This is true, and you
may publish it if you wish.” (Signed) Mrs. M. A.
Bishop.
If any woman who reads this has suffered as
Mrs. Bishop did, and thought the symptoms
were due to some female trouble, let her take
heart, for nine-tenths of all so-called female
troubles is really kidney trouble, and should be
treated as such. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are a splendid tonic to the whole female consti-
tution.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
may be had of all chemists and storekeepers at 2/9
per box, or six boxes for 15/3, will be posted on
receipt of price by the proprietors, or from any of
our branches, as follows Foster-McClellan Co.,
79 Pitt-st., Sydney (main office) ; 292 Flinders-
st., Melbourne ; 54 King William-st., Adelaide;
341 Murray-st., Perth, W.A. ; Eagle-st., Bris-
bane, care Elliott Brothers ; St. John-st., Laun-
ceston, care Fairthorne and Son.
Don’t forget the name “ D-O-A-N-S.”
Itchiness of the Skin.
Ever have any irritation of the skin ? There are
many forms of it, any of them bad enough to tax
your patience. Hemorrhoid, a plague of the
night; no rest for the sufferer from that complaint.
Eczema, too; hives don’t sound dangerous, but
they cause much misery to those unfortunate
enough to be troubled with them. Doan’s Oint-
ment is “ a wonder ” for any such trouble. Any
troublesome irritation of the skin can’t resist its
healing, soothing influence. Lots of Sydney
people know this now.
Mrs. M. A. Carter, “ Waratah,” Orange-street,
Randwick, Sydney, writes a most enthusiastic
letter as to how her young daughter, aged
10 years, was cured of Eczema by Doan’s
Ointment. Mrs. Carter thought her daughter
contracted the disease at school. It affected
her scalp, which was terribly inflamed, and
all broken out, and irritated her terribly.
She procured some of Doan’s Ointment at New-
man’s Pharmacy, King-street, and, after tho-
roughly washing the child’s scalp, applied it.
The result was the scalp entirely healed in a few
days, and left no scar, much to their joy.
“ I have also used the ointment myself for irri-
tation of the skin—a sort of Ezema —and it has
done me equally as much good as it did my
daughter. You are at liberty to publish these
faots at any time, and I will only be too pleased
to verify the statements should I be called upon
to do so.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all Diseases of
the Skin, Ezema, Piles, Hives, Insect Bites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very effec-
tive. Very frequently two or three boxes have
made a complete cure of chronic cases that have
not yielded to other remedies for years.
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin, who have not already tried it may ob-
tain a sample pot, free, by mail, who will send us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
solutely, and we want you to know' it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles,
Eczema, or any form of itchiness of the Skin, for
one moment. Doan’s Ointment will cure them
absolutely, but do not take our word for it, send a
penny stamp for a sample box. The large size
box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d).
If you cannot obtain it locally from your chemist
or storekeeper, same will be posted on receipt of
price by the proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention The
Bulletin.
At about this time Mrs. Lung discovered her
husband in. the act of hiding a peculiar-looking
copper canister in a hole in the ground The
canister when shaken gave forth a grateful jingle
of minted gold. Mrs. Pin Lung watched anxiously
from the cover of some currant bushes, and noted
Pin’s apparent great anxiety. Really Pin had
shown none of his usual cunning and secretiveness
in the conduct of this job ; on the contrary, he had
been singularly wanting in caution and strategy.
Mrs. Pin Lung thought a great deal about her
discovery during the remainder of the night.
At noon on the second day after the planting of
the capister, the butcher’s boy from Dogleg called
over Pin Lung’s fence :
“I say, John —you missy gone away ? ”
|| Huh ! ” grunted Pin.
“You missy gone away—elopee Longa Missa
Higgins.”
“Welly goo’,” said John, sweetly. “Elopee
welly goo’, welly ni’, welly cheap.”
Throughout all that day Pin Lung worked
placidly, amongst his vegetables, with a tender
and benign smile wreathing his lips, and murmur-
ing contentedly: “Elopee Missa Higgins, welly
ni’, welly cheap ! ”
Next day Pin Lung carted his furniture and
ware into Dogleg, and sold the lot, and after that
he rooted up his natty slab hut, and returned to
the rubbish-heap in the corner, where he lives in
apparent content. When Higgins and Mrs. Pin
Lung burst open the copper canister, they found
in it a great quantity of cash—Chinese cash to the
value of one and sevenpence halfpenny.
EDWARD DYSON.
The Blessings of War.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m in favor of the war, and of half-a-dozen more J
And I think we should have had one long before—
There is nothing to deplore ; I’m in favor of the
war
Independent of all statements made by Briton or
by Boer.
’Tis a healthy stirring up of the dregs of sorr. w’-
oup;
’Tis a joyful thing, as I have always held,
For it brings us something new. And I’m looking
forward to
The festive time when Sydney shall be shelled !
Oh, the bush is dull and brown, and it’s duller
still in town,
And the Bush Bard and his reader crave for
change,
For they’re sick of Bill and Jim, and the dusty
Track and grim,
And they’re tired of chasing brumbies in the range.
We need ne’er in rhyme again carry swag across
the plain—
We need never fight the “ ’ploorer,” drought and
flood,
For Jack Cornstalk gone to war (as Bill Shake-
speare said before)
Shall “be copy now to men of grosser blood.”
Shall be copy now at home both in story, sketoh,
and “ pome ”
In the new Australian drama he’ll be great.
Both in letters and in art he will play the paying
part
(And ’tis farewell to the swagman and his mate).
When he’s sick of grubbing stumps, of the posts
and rails he humps,
And the old man keeps him grafting all the while,
We won’t send him off Out Back with a swag or
with a pack,
But we’ll send him to South Africa in style.
And he’ll come back in the drought, and he’ll
farm the old man out,
And he’ll take his mother home to live with him;
And a billet or a grant will be all on earth he’ll
want —
And he’ll wed the squatter’s daughter fair and
slim.
When his life is hard and grim, and his best girl’s
false to him,
And he’s sick and tired and mad about it all—
We will ship him with three cheers and the Dingo
Volunteers,
And his manly breast expanding for the ball.
But he’ll come back with the rest, and his V.C.
on his breast
(Oh we’ll bring him back in glory and in rhyme),
And the girl, her blue eyes dim, who has pined
and longed for him —
She will tell him that she loved him all the time.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Missing Note of the Chord.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
After a three years’ confidence, their tempera-
ments, with a most relentless persistency, clamored
for severance.
Their acquaintance had commenced in a
romance, and ended in marriage and the faint
essence of a languishing sentiment.
In the days of their affection he admired her
spirit and independence, and adored her beauty.
She loved the poet in him. But the days come
and go, and constancy is not always as faithful as
the coming of another day. Their mutual admira-
tion had gradually faded, and, as an endeavour to
resuscitate their dwindling passion, their one
month of marriage had been as valueless as a
pastime.
He found her too assertive, and, in many ways,
too uncultured for his lustreless nature ; she con-
sidered him merely as an outline of spiritlessness,
a vaporous quantity that needed replenishing
with audacious tableaux. He was content with
his books, and a quiet, dreamy life, and the halo
of a colourless conscience; she had vigor and
decision, and where quivering dolts shook their
knee-bones in hesitancy, she laughed and stepped
over in delicious insolence. So that their affinities
gaped widely, and were too antagonistic for a
reconciliation.
One night, while he was peacefully reading,
Peggie suddenly became exalted with the spirit of
/
a reckless freedom, and to tantalize him, she
trifled and sported with his repose by playfully
hurling all her private longings and cherished
convictions at his head. These were not delicate,
but strong and unrestrained, and each bore the
burden of a taunt.
He recognized their meaning, and rose to the
occasion. Peggie had never seen him so roused
before, and out of pure devilment, communicated
some more of her persuasions. She teased and
provoked him, and laughed at his displeasure when
he heard that civilized morals were constraints,
and cramps, and gave each the life of a withered
mummy. From an unequal argument they
drifted, as is the nature of mankind, into per-
sonalities. He called her “an animal ” ; she
called him “ a scentless mortal,” and they
became so emphatic that Peggie was in the
seventh heaven of delight, and her husband in a
corresponding fury. At last he wearied, and, as
a surrender, shuffled to his books again, and
Peggie remained victor.
The next morning, as a courtesy to their feel-
ings, they decided to go separate ways. They
became very friendly in their eager acquiescence,
and parted amiably—their farewell a thanks-
giving.
Her wilder nature had swept his finer senses
away, and pitilessly enslaved him, but now, and
he rejoiced, the silence of his dreams would have
no disturbance. Peggie had gone for a freer life,
and he had regained his quiet one, so all things
were in harmony.
The days passed by, and he was content. All
the happiness he desired he found between the
pages of a book. The leaves of a book can make a
religion. Every leaf bestowed its glory, and,
submissive to his natural tendencies, he lost
himself in his reveries.
The three past years had been as disordered as
chaos, and the last month even worse, and, as a
delightful indulgence, he resolved, with every
fresh page, to erase a memory of them. It was as
if his most earnest wishes and ardent prayers had
been gratified, and there needed nothing further
to complete the fullness of his life. And he read
and read, and dreamed the days away. And
Peggie rambled here and there in a perfect
wilderness of pleasures.
The weeks followed in rapid succession. Some-
times, now, he would close and snap his book in a
hasty and foreign impatience. An irritation,
evidently, had manifested itself and needed dis-
pelling, but although he endeavoured with all his
power to banish it, the obstacle still remained—
Peggie’s face still kept intruding.
If he threw his book away and looked into the
fire, then the glowing embers gave her life and
framed her, and every quivering, leaping flame
became a phase of Peggie’s tumultuous nature.
And he heard her singing in every room. Memory
was making his solitude heavy with regret, and
the flimsy solace of his books exasperated him.
One day in a crowded thoroughfare he passed a
group of people laughing and talking. One lady,
the gayest of them all, was dressed in white, with
lace trailing all over her, and a flaming red parasol
shading her face. By moving close up he could
almost hear what she was saying. She laughed
joyously, and her companions laughed with her,
and the open red parasol whirled round and round
in a malicious merriment. Then they moved
away, and although she went down so far that he
couldn’t distinguish her over the heads of the
people, the parasol flaunted its bright and vivicl
defiance back to him.
The months went swiftly by, and a year had
fone, and the calmness of his life was desecrated.
lis regret had changed to a passionate desire,
and the longing for Peggie grew stronger. His
books were deserted, and he spent his time in the
busy streets looking for her. Every red parasol
became a magnet, a delirious hope, but it was
never Peggy’s face it shaded. As the dust settled
more thickly on his books, so his failures kept in
unison. He became embittered and desperate.
His dreamy nature was transformed into a rest-
less hopelessness, a dogged endeavour that sapped
all the tranquilness from him. He had almost
given up in despair when, out of a tangle and
confusion of traffic, an electric tram-car rushed by
him, and brought his salvation. Peggie sat inside
—Peggie so white and thin, that the sight of her
made him half mad in his eagerness to stop the
car. In running, he stumbled and fell, and the
tram was soon lost in the distance.
He walked home in a misery that made him
dizzy. It was torture to think of his unfortunate
slip, for, perhaps, Peggie would have been with
him now ! His unsteady steps trudged up the
stairs to his door. He forgot to wonder why it
was a little open when he had left it shut.
He dropped into a chair. Something in the
aspect of the room astonished him. The chairs
were arranged differently, the curtains had dis-
carded their limp straightness and hung in
soft folds ; his tobacco that he had left on the
table was on the shelf, his books were dusted and
placed in order. A general alteration had taken
place.
He stood up in surprise and looked round.
Perhaps the other rooms had also been visited.
He walked from one to the other, and stopped,
bewildered, for a little while, before he reached
the bedroom-door.
The fragrance of a long remembranoe came to
him. He ran in.
“Peggie ! Peggie ! ”
He clasped the dainty figure, and kissed the
white face.
“ Peggie ! You have come back to me ! ”
She laughed. “Yes, the poor, tired prodigal
has comajiome—for quietness—and—relaxation.”
He dropped her hands.
“Relaxation ! For nothing better than that,
Peggie?”
“Yes, something more.’’
“ For love of me, Peggy ? ”
“ Well ” —with her old mischief—“ I’m afraid it
is really more tangible than that. I came to
give you a-a present.”
“ A present! ”
“Yes. I think you will like it. I brought it
for you because I thought it would be a comfort
for you—for us, as we grow old. ”
“For our old age? What can it be, Peggy?”
his spirits rising. “ A foot-warmer ? ” His levity
was disregarded.
“ You know,” she said, “we two are moulded
so differently—are so contrary that, for fear we
should clash again, I brought this—this present
to keep the balance even.” Her eyes shone as he
had never seen them shine. “Walter, you
haven’t looked at the bed ! ” He turned and
looked; went over —looked again for an incredul-
ous moment—then lifted the little bundle in his
arms.
“Good God!” he said to himself more than
once—“ Good God !—a baby t ”
HOIYA.


H l Always Give it to my Children”
It purifies the blood, prevents the bad effects
of hot weather, gives a good appetite, and
builds up the whole system. *
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
5^
Sj-f. <6
7 //
WA /A
I
m
%
V*
'O'.
s^d
Sx
«I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in my family for years with the most satis-
fal:t %a e ring 8 the warm, debilitating days of summer it acts as a tonic and seems
to build up the system and restore the appetite. w ifh
“ I have always given it to my children, whose photograph I send you wit
this letter, for any disorder of the blood, and, in fact, for all diseases pec 1
to children {Qund . t greatly improyed their health by getting at the root of the
disorder quicker than any other preparation.’ ~ TTiil<;
These are the children of Mr. and Mrs. Morrall W. Curran, of Bowen Hills,
Brisbane, Queensland. Mr. Curran sends us this strong testimonial. It show.*
again why the people have named Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
The old and young alike are cured with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, for it is J family
medicine. Give a few doses to the children any time they ha T e %
sleeplessness, loss of appetite, headache, or general weakness. are pale
and thin, or have any rashes or pimples, they certain y >s ~
the cure to be prompt, and if you wish it to last, be sure y
There is nothing “Just as Good.”
AYER'S Saw* 3
It is a Blood-Purifying Medicine.
Ayer’s Pills act gently, effectively. They cure constipation.
n
PLAIN NOMC TALK.
KMBRACINO
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformationem-
l-i act'd in its covers. "
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts icadv-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public .speaking made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d..
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is (id post free.
Art op Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
W R1TKR, lS 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds' Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, .is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BQOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.-
SIR ROBERT l6 Park Street, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMIFETITIOIXr.
WINES The Best Brands Ordy of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
m
I
I
Have been before the Public for more than
50 years, and have now the greatest sale of
any Proprietary article. This has been achieved
without the publication of testimonials,
the convincing fact is, that Beecham’s Pills
RECOMMEND THEMSELVES.
Hiniia
FOE ALL
BILIOUS « NERVOUS DISORDERS,
SUCH AS
Sick Headache. Constipation,
Weak Stomach, Impaired l»i£estion,
Disordered Liver & Female Ailments,
Ani\ual Sale, SIX MILLION HOXES.
Sold every where' in boxes, 9\d., Jsd
and 219 each.
nm
Perfume
FSen-Sem Cs
| FARR'.NGtOH A^ 1 1
I X.QKDON.
\mw>m to
SINGERS & SPEAKERS
hen
n
cP
ft
m
nm
HPiebno.
KTanon F*iano.
noniscli Piano.
n
BecUstein Piano
We are the Sole Agents!
jsr
Time Payments to Suit Everybody.
Liberal Discount for Cash.
NICHOLSON
SYDNEY.
BKISBANE.
& CO.,
PERTH.
REMEMBER
THE WONDERFUL
CURATIVE PROPERTIES OF
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS
FOR
Coughs and all Lung Complaints.
Mr T G BEATTIE, Hillgrove, writes: “ Dear Sirs.—l experienced immediate relief
when suffering from a severe cold in the head and throat upon taking a few doses of your
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.”
Bonnington’s Pills.
Great Cure for Bile, Indigestion,
and all Liver Disorders.


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
Gfas Tubing, &c.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office :
PERDRIAU & €O.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECT ItIC AL~EN GINEERS,
M AN UE ACT U HERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THS MOST NUTRITIOUS!
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST SUPPER
ROBERTS'
G-eorge and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
BY ROYAL WARRANT OF APPOINTMENT TO “THE QUEEN."
Usk for
WfriSky aQd
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPE
SRsk for
Draody ai)d
‘Scbwcppe’
SO PA WATER, Sc.
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
The H|ost Powerful Driving gelt in the ||jorld.
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
special features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working.
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Worlds,
GLASGOW .
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
23
7P.
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
wspJTEIIT BEETS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents t
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Beid & Sons, Adelaide;
Bobertson, Tail & Co., Brisbane
FRESH
FOOD & ICE GO
i
PASTEURISED
•' •
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the verv flSiast
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process • but it is satisfactory
t° know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter TndTthe
ordinary make is only -|d. per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that thmr grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your Orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors
have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use bad hnt+Av
at any price. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & GENERAL MACHINERY. ENGINES & BOILERS.
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockhreakers
Gates RockEbreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders
ingersoiS Compressors
fingersoli Rock Drills
V-€'
•v':
m
'["‘Z-^rStkT
h:>*>
Knowles Steam Pumps
Bullock Diamond Drills
Columbia Boilers
u _ _ . Buffalo Blowers
Huyett & Smith’s Fans
» .. Nagle Engines
Bartlett Concentrators
... . ■ ■ ■ Pulsometers
Wood-Working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
1
%
..
BARNES’
Foot and Steam Power
Machine Tools
of Every Description.
Drilling Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ENGINEERS'
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
SIMPSOKT BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian. Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WG
Mmmm m m trade mark.
Worthington Pumps
BOILER FEED PUMP.
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . ,
