

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
Reid’s London Draught Stout,
= FRY’S MALTED COCOA
O-XT ARAUTBEP PURE COCOA. A.3NTD EXTRACT OF MALT.
107 Kent street:, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Prize
Medals.
22,500
Steam
Engines
sdf
SEND FOE PRICES AND PARTICULARS
---rr-T-j-. - '
L__.
: "
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-w pm street, SYDNEY
uston,
octor
-
&
FOR
Co
HAVE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE-PORTABLE,
TRACTfON, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS and PUMPS.
KCCB3ffTH.IC MACBEXUrES, S.A.'W BE3VTCXXES, &c.,
&c.
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLS’S GEORGE HOT EL, opposite St.
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISHT.
SAN DEM AITS
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
I
HOBART.
^ —-
Radley s Orient [jotel.
For what you are about to re-
ceive, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
60
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. E-LIDEID&E <Sc GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK. BT'Rl.';»<ii’, S YTDNE Y
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
? tt/'i
(JO
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month~THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST,
LEATHER
EJLT
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by tntN.SJW. Government.
Prices and* Samples Free to ly aid dress.
J. C. LUDOWIGI & SON, LTD.,
fir? ■3T«»**le. Amiet,
/SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland-; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.''
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S
A High and Unsolicited Testimonial ;t® the Merits and Value
'SssF of this Favorite Brand of Spirits is the fact''that
THE WA.R OFFICE
HAS SELECTED
BOOMERANG BRANDY
To be supplied to the TROOPS ordered to SOUTH AFRKSA.
WINE!
WINE !
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST WIHE,^
IN AUSTRALIA.
Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TEACHER’S “ HIGHLAND CREAM” WHISKY
SOLE AGENTS
iPI-ummer Love «S» Co.
249 George Street, SYDN'JSY.
The Bulletin
Voi. 21.—N0. 1043. j
[Saturday, February 10, 1900.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


“Steele Rudd’s” Book.
“ On Our Selection.”
Price : Six Shillings, Post Free-
“ The Bulletin ” Newspaper Co., Ltd.
214 George-street, Sydney, Australia.
Hudson’s “Eumentfaol” Registered) Jujubes.
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
all
THROAT & LUNG
AFFECTIONS.
SSSSs
ms
LO£
INVALUABLE
for
SINGERS
and
iPUBLIO SPEAKERS.
Sold by all Chemists, in Tins, Is. 6d. Contains no Cocaine or other poisonous drugs.
Or from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, for Postage Stamps of any
Province. Sydney Agent: S. Taylor, 5 and 7 Queen’s Place.
£3T They Ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in INDIGESTION and DYSPEPSIA.
THE RED PAGE.
MY MUSE
Sometimes she moves with gracious ease
Demure, sedate, serene ;
Sometimes she lifts her draperies
And frolics like a quean.
Sometimes she comes in sad attire,
Pale-faced, prim-lipped, a prude ;
Sometimes, to set my blood on fire,
My wanton seeks me nude.
Sometimes all rouged and corseted
She comes, with perfumed breath ;
And then, while all the world’s abed,
We shake a leg with Death.
Sometimes she’s tender, trustful, true.
Maidenly, quiet, wise;
Sometimes the Lampsacene leers through
Her passion-fevered eyes.
Sometimes she feeds, in fickle mood,
Alternate hopes and fears ;
Sometimes she heats me with her blood,
Then cools me with her tears.
* Sometimes with dainty delicate
Soft hands she fondles me ;
Sometimes she spurs me with her hate
Apd cold effrontery.
Her eyes are soft with joy and pain,
And warm with life and sin—
Like twin brown lakes of autumn rain
With flecks of gold therein.
Her voice is softer than Spring’s breath
In groves of Arcady ;
But grander than the voice of Death,
And more peremptory.
She hath that girdle round her waist
Dead Venus once did use ... -
Ah ! —cruel, tender, wanton, chaste—
My light last love—my Muse !
Tas.
FRANK MORTON.
Ruskin.
CURRENT obituary notices refer -to
Ruskin’s death in his 81st year as a loss
to English letters—which it plainly is
not. It is Ruskin’s works which
establish his literary claim ; and these re-
main uninfluenced by his death, as they
would have been uninfluenced had he lagged
another score of senile years—a surpefiuous
veteran.
Ruskin the man was born rich, and he
made a good and unselfish use of his riches.
He was a liberal patron of art, spent much
in hopeless attempts to create a social
Eutopia, and gave, gave, gave to hundreds of
men and public insti t utions that seemed to him
deserving. Naturally, he failed to agree
with his wife: either she was too small to
embrace his large scheme of art and life, or
his scheme was too large to permit him to
embrace her in the fashion commonly
demanded, or -—any of the reasons which
prevent a man with his head in the clouds
from attending to the practical domestic
creature at his feet. Speculation is as use-
less as unnecessary.
Ruskin’s head was always in the clouds,
like his writings. The best excuse for his
dithyrambs is that he lived them. He was a
literary Gladstone, an aesthetic Whitefield—
a vast wave of emotion which dashed sud-
denly upon you from a vague expanse,
retreated, and lost itself in the expanse
again. The wave had no particular intellec-
tual reason or justification: its cause
was as obscure as its consequences; but
it made a furious noise, shone with
prismatic colours in the sunshine, and, in a
general way of speaking, was an impressive
natural object. When the wave fell back,
you noticed the ground was a little wet.
The patch of moisture left by the Ruskin
wave is rapidly drying. Nobody nowadays
pays any intellectual attention to Ruskin.
He was a fine emotional force in his day and
generation : for emotional people he is still
an emotional force. But intellectually he
does not count : he never did count.
How was it possible that Ruskin should
count ? He referred everything to the
Glory of God. That was the end of all art,
the aim of all human effort. Ruskin did not
know what God is, or the Glory of God.
All that he could do was to marry the
Hebrew Scriptures with a Turner sunset,
and decide that the Glory of God was the
offspring. Then he described the offspring
in an ecstasy of sonorous alliterations, and
invited you to worship. You might wor-
ship ; but you were doubtfully convinced.
Was. that the Glory of God ? . . .
The Glory of God was the end, and
the Glorification of Beauty was a
means j but the Ruskin idea of Beauty
was intellectually as incomprehensible as the
Ruskin idea of God. For consider : Ruskin
Beauty is divided into typical beauty and
vital beauty. Typical beauty is that external
quality of bodies which typifies some divine
attribute. Vital beauty is the appearance
of felicitous fulfilment of function in liv-
ing things. The forms of typical beauty
are—(l) Infinity, the type of divine in-
comprehensibility. (2) Unity, the type
of divine comprehensiveness. (3) Repose,
the type of divine permanence. (4) Sym-
metry, the type of divine justice. (5)
Purity, the type of divine energy. (6)
Moderation, the type of government by law.
The forms of vital beauty are
But that will do. Imaginative gibberish,
It seems ? Imaginative gibberish it is. So
far as theories of art were concerned,
Ruskin wrote nothing but imaginative
gibberish. But when his theories did
not come in the way foe was a s! rjwd
critic of art, and he was for a long time the
chief appreciator of art in England. The emo-
tionwhich he felt he could often give. His
vision seems sc\metimes the inspired vision
of a prophet: the eyes in that head-in-the-
clquds saw things which ordinary men
groped all their lives without perceiving:
sometimes the angel-wing of Beauty did
hash before Raskin's eyes, and sometimes
he could brilliantly describe a prismatic
feather. You must browse over Ruskin as
a horse browses over a meadow, welcoming
what is succulent and sustaining, and pass-
ing many an arid patch and many a patch
too dangerously green and shining.
_ Ruskin wrote rhetorically, oratorically :
his prose style is too continually in the
clouds where his head was The energy of
it is remarkable ; the beauty of it is some-
times remarkable ; it is frequently turgid,
and its artifices are monotonous. When a
thought can be expressed in two plain words
you do not continually desiderate a glitter-
ing fifty. Every intelligent reader of Ruskin
must pine for a diminished torrent and a
greatly-diminished spout.
When Whistler commented in 1878 on the
famous cause Whistler v. Ruskin—verdict
for plaintiff : damages one farthing—he
wrote that Ruskin’s writing was art, and his
art was unworthy his writing. It was only
latter statement which was debatable in
IKnva days we would debate both.
Ihe Ruskin wave has spent itself. And if
you look closely, you may perceive that the
ground is a little wet.
>
Gr. W. Steevens is really a loss, for he was no
extinct crater: at 30 one conceives his best work
was still to do. What he did is a series of bril-
liant flashlights upon manifestations of modern
lif e the American character, the country of
India, the recent Greek and Egyptian wars, and
so on. And there was a clever little book to hint
the author s University education—“ Monologues
of the Dead, epitomising classic characters in the
Imaginary Conversations ” way. In Steevens
a very bright eye was matched by a very
bright style. He saw instantly the pictorial or
dramatic points of a man or a scene, and flashed
them at you in words full of life and colour-
words which, to many unobservant persons, gave
better images than the things they stood-for
would have given. All brain, of course—the
biain which the local war-correspondents
lack including the power of vision, the
power of comparison, the sense of words
and the power over style. The local war-
correspondence—so unillumined, so dreary,
so absolutely inefficient—gives amazing views of
the men who write and the papers which sent them
to write. An exception is A. B. Paterson, who is
readable, at all events. Yet when The Sydney
Mail sent Paterson away there was real indigna-
tion among the tribe of local reporters. He
had no journalistic experience, no journalis-
tic training ”—that is, his mind had not been
muddled in the stupid routine of a stupid
daily-paper (which, mind you, gives its audience
what they like), and he brought a fresh eye and
an original intelligence to his work. He does
better than the others because he is better than
the others : he has a livelier brain, a livelier pen.
The mill-horse round of daily journalism is not
experience-which-teaches unless the man is teach-
able. You receive in proportion as you bring;
and the man who does n’t rise superior to his
environment is inevitably crushed by it—like the
dreary local war-correspondent.
♦
Arthur Adams’s “Maoriland and Other Verses”
receives minute verbal criticism from the energetic
and rather pedantic person who edits The Triad
(M.L.). It seems there are still people more con-
cerned with the letter which killeth than with
the spirit which giveth life. And, to give it its
due, The Triad scores^—sometimes from Adams,
sometimes from itself. Example—
Here are a few specimens of his rimes : Pansy, fancy;
furied, lurid; furrow, sorrow ; builded, unshielded;
sombre, encumber; heaven, even ; mist, as, vistas, and so
on. Mr. Adams also has a curious fancy for certain words:
Trickling, neutral, vista 3, parturient, reluctant, sudden,
iconoclast.
True: some of those rhymes (only the pedants
spell it rimes, defying overwhelming Custom, that
final arbiter) are abominable ; our poets should
take more pains. And if Adams and other
youngsters find a strange, sonorous word like
“ parturient ” they are apt to drag it in regardless
of sense—as when “ axe and torch
To the grim depths of forest fastnesses
Brought the parturient light.”
Clearly, the light is the agent;—its function is to
beget, to generate; and the forest fastnesses are
parturient, being the subject of the act. But
when The Triad remarks
The line from “ The Reaper” :
The world is drowsy, the winds asleep,
is ungrammatical. “ The winds is asleep ” !
you have an example of The Triad's ignor-
ance of grammar, and can incidentally observe the
unenlightened standpoint from which it regards
poetry. Nevertheless, the review contains much
that it would be profitable for the local poet to
consider. Poetic skill is to a considerable extent
shown by “ playing the game by the manner in
which the poet distils from uncouth words the
essence of melodious emotion. You should
conquer the canons, not disregard them or dodge
them —and a good end does not always justify bad
means. *
~
The psychology of contributors to the various
Australian war funds is interesting. It is based
on the principle of the rolling stone, which requires
considerable force to move it from rest, and com-
paratively small force to keep it in motion. There
is always more or less brain inertia to reckon with.
Many people will pass three fruit-shops displaying
grapes at 3d. per lb., and buy from a fourth shop
which sells the same grapes at 4d. : because the
repeated stimulus decides the purchase. Some
commercial travellers think it an advantage
to have a man with the same line of
goods canvass a town before them. He
awakens attention, and sets people thinking
of possible profits from handling the goods:
then the second man comes along and secures the
orders. “ The brain is to a certain extent like a
soil in which things must germinate and ripen
before they'can produce results.” So the N.S.W.
Bushmen’s Contingent Fund, starting some weeks
after the so-called Patriotic Fund, has consider-
ably surpassed it. There was needed six weeks
beating of the war - drum before the brains of
local millionaires were stirred sufficiently to over-
come the reluctance to open their money-bags.
Not till the London Dangar subscribed .£lOOO did
the Sydney Dangar subscribe £5OO. He had just
as much reason to subscribe three months ago;
but reason (in the sense of conscious intellectual
argument) has little to do with the average man’s
decisions. He is swayed rather by a' tide of
unconscious suggestions, which rises till it bursts
the barriers to action.
+
The blind ardours and furies of a crowd exhibit
a similar absence of argumentative process. A
crowd has the affectability of a woman, the incon-
sequence of a child, the destructive instincts of a
savage. When animated by a strong emotion it
exerts upon its members a distinct hypnotic
influence which sends brains toppling like card-
houses. The average man has little reasoning
capacity at any time: the average woman has
less. They are dominated by instincts and im-
pressed by images. The alleged cruelties to
Cubans might never have stirred America to war
with Spain; while the sinking of the Maine
roused the popular imagination and forced the
Government to war. The annual slaughter of
thousands of Australian infants through their
parents’ ignorance passes unnoticed by a multitude
of persons who were profoundly thrilled when
three or four babies were found in the Makins’
back-yard. And does anyone believe that the
hysterical crowd which watches the_ passage of
Transvaal contingents is acquainted with the
causes and objects of the war, or has reasoned
regarding its ethical right or wrong ?
' ——-—■— -
People are accustomed to say that man is a
rational animal. In the main he is not. The
small power of individual judgment which the
average man acquires inevitably deserts him
in emotional crises. Under the pressure of
an insistent image, or the hypnotism of
a crowd, he is as effectively derationalised
as if he were made insensible by a blow
on the back of the head. For illustration:
An article in Dec. Wide World Mu azine tells
the effect of Noise in ending a plague of tree-
caterpillars in Eastern U.S.A. The caterpillars
attack apple, maple, sugar, and plum trees, and
kill them in a year. They are not to be dislodged
by arsenic or kerosene, and before Mrs. Martin’s
discovery had to be tediously picked-off by hand.
It was Mrs. Martin who, blowing a horn to call
her husband to dinner, saw with astonishment
that the caterpillars fell from an infested tree.
Then the local band turned out—
“ Now, then,” cried the leader, ‘“Auld Lang- Syne’—
softly.” As the band slowly breathed forth the Scotch
song, the caterpillars began to move their bodies in per-
fect time to the music. The band played faster ; faster
moved the caterpillars ; and then, ere the last note died
away, they began to fall from the tree by hundreds.
The theory is that the local band and
kindred noises stupefy the caterpillars, whose
nervous system has not been tuned tp
endurance of gross sound-vibrations : conse-
quently they shiver to their fall and the final fire.
And in precisely similar fashion the blare of
military bands, the spectacle of flags waving and
men marching, the insistence on pictorial ideas
like that of “the Empire calling,” stupefy the
reasoning centres of the average person with an
undeveloped cortex to his brain. When he hears
“Soldiers of the Queen ” he begins to move his
brain in perfect time to the music. The more it
is played, the faster he moves. Then, like the
U.S.A. caterpillar, he “falls off his perch.”
The evil our friends do lives after us. Of
Stevenson’s letters, edited by Colvin, The Saturday
Revietv says that “Stevenson is a writer who has
every title to commiseration, and the appearance
of the volumes before us may be said to mark the
climax of his misfortunes.” The fullest truth
rarely consists with epigrams ; but in this epigram
there is truth enough to leave a sting. Two bio-
graphers are especially to be dreaded—your worst
enemy, and your best friend.
H. : “In Ruskin’s descriptive prose, De
Quincey may be traceable, as Christopher North
in De Quincey. John Wilson, Christopher
North, was an originator of this luscious, exuberant
writing, and some of it pours, all over the bucket,
into the unintelligible, ■’-'t not the sublime unin-
telligible of De Quincey. I take it that De
Quincey is the greatest of the trio, writing prose
simply as music, a symphony from Beethoven.
Swinburne’s magnificent prose, another form of
the “Marlowe mighty line,” is not well enough
known, and yet he cannot achieve pure poetry
in prose like De Quincey, the Shelley of that
field. Buskin, as the great pen painter, must
always have some objective kernel, whereas De
Quincey darts right away, and can even commence
building from the top. He is like the Indian
fakir, who throws up a tape, and a boy comes
down a ladder. Nobody has arisen even to emulate
him.”
“Hodgson’s Tales of Medical Students by Dr.
Ralph Hodgson of Sydney 1899 ” —a 400-page
volume with a London imprint—makes one
wager the author is a fine upstanding fellow, full
of energy and without the literary brain. His
sentences and stories flow clearly and quickly—
and give no picture, transfer no particular im-
pression, mildly interest and never arrest. The
writer fails to get his vitality into his language.
’T is a curious case; but by no means uncommon.
They are crusading in England against the split-
infinitive crusaders—and it was quite time. Not
only do most of the masters of English split; but
all have reason to. Dexterously to split your in-
finitives and indicatives is often to make your
style more lucid, more vivid, and more eloquent.
Points of Theodore Watts (and bother the
Dunton). 1. Tiny man. 2. Deafish. 3. Heavy
moustache. 4. Has slashed many authors. 5.
Particularly hates to be slashed himself.
An anonymous English writer: before 18th
century—
He or she that hopes to gain
Love’s best sweet without some pain,
Hopes in vain.
Oupid’s livery no one wears
But must put on hopes and fears,
Smiles and tears.
And, like to April weather,
Rain and shine together,
Both or neither.
During his current season at Sydney Opera
House, Howard Vernon is to produce Brunton
Stephens’s light opera “ Fayette, ” hitherto given
only in Brisbane. The score is by G. B. Allen,
a clever old musician who died in Brisbane some
two years ago, neglected and unknown.
“ George Bernard Shaw [writes The Labour
Leader ] is the greatest inventor of the age. He
invented George Bernard Shaw.”
The new Sydney quarterly, United Australia, is
an eminently solid and respectable publication;
but (in the charming American phrase) it does n’t
out ice.
Harry Morant, that hard-case bushman known
as a verse-writer over signature of “ The Breaker,”
was reported as definitely leaving Australia with
S.A. Transvaal contingent. The contributed
comment is more personal than literary—
An English weekly alleges that on the broad
beam of the mantel in an old farmhouse near
Windsor, which dates back to 1204, are these
lines—
Life is mainly froth and bubble. Two things stand lyke
stone:
Kindnesse in another’s trouble, Courage in your own.
So this also, it seems, may have to be accounted
with A. L. Gordon’s plagiarisms.
The Bookfellow.
Whatever they may say,
You ’re a fighter all the way
(Good-bye, Breaker !)
Let us put your faults behind,
Let us put your better qualities before,
For we ’re glad to hear you’ve signed, and we ’ll drink the
red night blind
To another bull-dog - fighter for the war 1
Whoever may deny ,
You ’re a plucky sort, say I,
(Good luck, Breaker !)
We have seen you go ahead
In the rattling polo-rally and the hunt;
So we ’ll hope you dodge the lead, and we ’ll fill the wine-
cup red,
To another reckless devil for the front !
W. H. O.


gECONO-HAND
W®W FURNITURE
** (Best Quality).
™ 1
riTURE f
Bty). J
but from us and
SAVE 60 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £6 Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
guahty atfully 60 per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.). SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
kfkin < t£)i6ea6e6.
309leii) Wkcotiery
//• **
oLiymowene.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGMOLLIENE
Never fails to CURE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARC O O RASH. Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY:—
“Woolloston House, Castlemaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from 4 Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Mr. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it..—Yours truly, GEO. D.
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.0., says
“Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir,—l have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronio
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
LIGMOLLIENE CREAM SOAP
(Registered.)
Is a Pure, Neutral, strongly Antiseptio, and Curative
Soap, for the treatment of parasitic, and the various
superficial affections of the skin, among which may be
mentioned, ITCHING, PRICKLY-HEAT, CHAPPED
HANDS, SUNBURN, &o. It allays instantaneously all
irritation and soreness, and is especially valuable for the
cleansing of wounds, and ulcers. It will also be found a
thorough luxury for shampooing, effectually cleansing
the scalp from Dandriff, and for all nursery and bath
purposes.
Ligmolliene Cream Soap is sold in oval tablets at Is
each, stamped with the trade mark Ligmolliene." Can
be obtained from all chemists throughout Australasia.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM H€NRY MALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. and. 7s. 6d. Eacli.
Posted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
DR. J. COLLiOROWNE’S
(THLORODYNE.
‘ ItSS
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BHOHCHITIS,
DIARRHEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
IST" A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
HOMOEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL . .
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS OF ENERGY, etc.
Has cured Thousands for the BLOOD, SKIN, NERVES,
RHEUMATISM, etc.
“ WORDS OF WISDOM.” This Free Book about the
Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40 pages of
useful- information, and will be posted in plain cover
absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address— The Irvine Homoeopathic Co., comer Hunter
and Bligh Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
DAGGING
SHEARS
Write for Free
Illustrated List
—of—
Station Cutlery.
sdf
W. JKTO.BAKBR’S
Special Design Sheath with New Pattern
Double Bow
DACCING or TRIMMING SHEARS /
6s. complete, Post Free.
LAMB SHEARS, 3£, 4&, 5in. Blades
3s. 6cl. per pair, Post Free.
‘ni3o.mg; ifyradoij pire Surai]® 9qx
»jsis e
CABLE ADDRESS:
Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE Mffl
London, E.C.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the financial Market of London by
FR.A.KTK; JARVIS
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agenoy terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, STDIOET.
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen jreet, BRISBANE.
Victoria— JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
Co
SOLE
THE
-Operative W ool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices: - 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores—Central Wharf.
CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
sd
fsd
fs
mmrm m cmnoT,*
w- n®ralwrHm
llff
•i/tf*
df
Baron Berzelius’ Report.
These Bitters I recommend in DYSPEPSIA, CHRONIC RHEUMATISM and CUTA-
NEOUS AFFECTIONS. The action of Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidney and Bladder than any other herbal plant; and it also assists persons suffer-
ing from Skin Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and inducing perspiration.
| Head What Medical Men Say About Them.
I B JERKIN, M.D. :—The Bitter is pure, and not like others in overdoses. It has a remark-
able influence on the Liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it when deranged,
and restores healthy evacuations in cases of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D. : —BBBB —I find these Bitters a most valuable and wholesome
Tonic, being pure and strengthening; a stimulant to the Liver, assisting Digestion. I therefore
thus recommend them.
I G. B. WOOD, M.D. :—lt is the purest of Bitters, and exerts a peculiar influence over the
Liver.
EDWARD ROW AND CO., SYDNEY,
ITTCV HOd
hivh aooo
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Kestorer.
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., 6s. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND'S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, 6s. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 6s. 6d. Postage,
9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
sd
MEDICATOR
/CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invade!
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the ldngs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma. Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?? Catarrh CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
“ COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
THE
HEAS
pOMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after _ trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
ABELIAN CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric'Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it do.es not,«we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
DRUNKENNESS
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address —R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
fs
BEAT
The New Patent
(SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the care as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
Tbs B. ai>d N.Treatnjeot
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forrns of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated." There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOURNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE, t
AIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
d
A
A
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET* BRISBANE '
H ICH4RA DI rA R M I SVI PLEMENTS ft N D MfICHIN ERY
Bluthner
PIANOS
Albert Fahr
PIANOS
August Heide
PIANOS
Estey Organs
Pianos
and
Organs
-ON-
Very
Easy
Terms
The Most Popular Piano in Australia.
THE
BLUTHNER
PIAN O FO KTE S
Grand and Upright.
Descriptive Catalogues and Price Lists on—
Application to
How to Learn
the Piano
in 3 Months.
Price, 2s. 6d.
— : — Post Pree.
The
Federal
Music Books
Nos. 1 to 62.
The Best Shilling
Annuals in the
World.
Catalogues mailed free to
any address.
Sol?
*B«OtS-
H. <SLEN & CO.,
359 Creorgfe Street, Sydney.
272 & 274 Collins St., Melbourne.


TATTERSALLS
Address : Care GKESO. HoDart.
Newmarket H. March 3.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTEKSALL. :
Please allot me shares in above.
i !jr : . —r:
Name, ■
... | '! ■■ ‘
\
Address.
Australian C. March 6.
50,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
N ame
Address
£ : :
March 31
Rosehill C.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
April 16,
Sydney C.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name _
Address
Newmarket H. (special).
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
Maitland 0. March 9.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name
Address
.shares in the above.
Doncaster H. April 14.
. i t ' • • ■'
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name.
sE
Address
Adelaide 0
May 9
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tetters all,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


A Sydney blind man displays a placard —
“I have 6 small children” —in which the “6” has
just been newly-painted over a much-worn “5.”
No chances missed. Wife there with the new
“ paint mark ” in arms.
YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. 1 don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
&c. Price, in Great Britain, 1/Hd. per b *x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, London, England.
Agents : ELLIOTT BKOS., Sydney. Purchasers 6houid
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on tach box. (Regd. copyright).
/HfpiCAL A\em
F JNDIGEjTIofI
IJVerVovs
"Man's
Strength
and
Woman’s
Beauty.”
Before and since
the days of Samson
this is what has
been said of every
luxuriant growth
of hair.
H&ir
visor
NATURE)
GIFTS
preserves and
beautifies the
hair, giving
it length,
strength, and
luster.
It restores
the natural
color to the
hair in every
instance.
It cleanses the scalp from dandruff
and thus removes one great cause of
It makes a better circulation in the
scalp and thus checks the hair from
falling out.
If your blood is poor and thin ana
filled with impurities, the Hair Vigor
cannot do its best. You should take a
thorough course of treatment with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla at the same time
you are using the Hair Vigor. This
will cleanse your blood, invigorate your
nerves, and improve your health in
every way.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
COMFORT IN WALKING.
9 s
•vTJs
$1
0
la
,
CURES WHEN ALL OTHER REMEDIES FAIL
IT ACTS LIKE MAGIC
In relieving ALL PAIN & THROBBING and soon
cures the worst CORNS & BUNIONS,
it softens and removes all hard Callosities on the
soles of the feet. If you suffer, Try a Box.
You will never regret it.
Boxes 1/IJ, of all Chemists.
M. BEETHAM & SON, Chemist, Cheltenham
England.
FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO., Melbourne;
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
S P
iiw
Gt-Q TO HBXjL-
IUOI.AMi for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price
lists gratis.
A&Straliao MOtdal ProVidcpt
Society.
money to lend
„ .. . xvovimOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Sr U rao” L Cr PASTORAL «»d AGRICULTURAL LANDS coa.bi.ed
At Lowest
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a
more than 20% of the loan during any year
Current Rates of Interest.
condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
without notice or payment of any fine.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
fsd
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£S 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, rfo/-
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
[
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
FAC-SIMILE OF
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL
for the
&OKQ
TRADE MARK
BECISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL 1
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL 1
2 S'* 1 '/ 9 <]b<
“YCo*lJ '^o^L ) M
ud aWiWv o 9
tkjL #
' 1 *UJLa*JZ
A/vv
KOKO
►<°
HAIR
Eradicates Scurf cad D.ltdri*. "f^i^Kr^/.V^^^.Pc^o^hTH.'i'r*
unique Testimonials prove it to be unaoub y /*- of all Chemists*
3, B..ii —Hti t-ONDON.^SG.
3NT.S.W. Carriage
Note our New Address:
& Saddlery Marxf-
-193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
Company,
SYDNEY
Railway Station).
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us. .
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7,
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll-
- Buggies, £2O. BlickboaKi Biiggies rcm LO
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons double), Do Cai ts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order° HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. &enc J, us rl ?„?“5
address, and we will forward you our Illusorated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE-Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
OUR SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
fs
Itolivered at any Wharf ®r
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Homocea
USED FREELY
Cures Colds in the Head, Nasal Catarrh,
Eczema, Piles, Ringworm, Burns, Cuts,
Sores, Bruises, Sore Eyes, Mosquito Bites,
&c., &c., for
HOMOCEA
Ifflllll
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
AND SOOTHES THE ACHING PARTm
For all Deep-seated and Persistent Pains use HOMOCEA
EMBROCATION. Sold in Collapsible Tubes.
Of all Storekeepers, General Dealers, ai\d Chemists.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O Hearts Aglow!
O, Hearts aglow !
Ye fall, indeed, O Hearts, on evil days,
The World is weary grown in devious ways,
Our song-birds fly a-near with flagging wing,
Our laugh hath mocking malice in its ring,
The brows are cold and pale that loved you so
0, Hearts aglow!
O, Hearts aglow!
There lies a chilling frost upon our time,
The cheery bells of old are out of chime
Your heroes sleep among the mighty slain,
Ye seek a faith and find a fallen fane,
While Freedom’s sacred fires are dim and low
O, Hearts a-glow !
O, Hearts a-glow !
Let no such mournful music be your theme,
’Tis better far to dream your noble dream,
To hold with steady eye the fixed star
Than beat your breast at ev’ry squalid bar,
While all unheeded shine the peaks of snow
O, Hearts a-glow !
O, Hearts a-glow !
The darkest deep hath caves of fairy sheen,
The marble lies below the mud terrene,
Through cloven mountain-chasm dark and dumb
The lava-tides in lambent glory come,
From blackest clouds the floods of blessing flow—
0, Hearts a-glow !
O, Hearts a-glow !
Though Right be crushed a-while and overborne
Each glorious Dead hath Resurrection Mom,
And yet the tranced Years that sleep in thrall
Shall hear the pealing clarion call and call,
Shall leap to Life as leapt the Years Ago—
O, Hearts a-glow !
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
The Boer’s Prayer.
Lord God of Battles, hear us,
Harken to our prayer,
The dreadful day draws near us
Of failure and despair.
The shriek of the war-stallions,
The cheering of the foe,
Lord of the big Battalions,
O, hear us, ere we go.
We fight and know the ending,
We fight the losing fight,
Our country’s plains defending,
We know that we are right.
We know our fate is written
Our best blood will be shed
To dye our lands for Britain
Their thrice accursed red.
Now that our bright days darken
A debt on us is laid,
Lord God of Battles, hearken
And see that it is paid ;
When those that now beset us
Shall be beset full sore,
Lord God, do not forget us,
’Tis all that we implore.
C.P.Q.C.
Mid-Forest Fear.
She is standing at the gate,
Tall and sweet,
And although the hour is late
She will greet
Me, her lover,
Smiling over
Absent mind and tardy feet.
“Rest,” I’ll say to her, “ and more rest,”
As she wraps her love around me,
And I’ll tell her of the forest,
Of the strange, fear-haunted forest,
Where the fleshless beings found me.
For I trod a rock-strewn rude way
Thinking only of my lover,
When the moonlight on the woodway
Made a weird-way of the woodway,
And a place where demons hover.
For the leaves that had been sleeping
On the sodden soil-bed lying,
Took a motion and ’gan creeping,
Like a thousand small feet creeping,
And there rose a distant sighing.
Why the trees did droop their tresses,
Weeping leaves for something under,
And what bode in dim recesses,
Feline-lurked in dim recesses,
Paled my cheeks and heart to ponder.
Had I feet I would have hurried,
But the moonlit forest chained me,
Soul and body grasped and worried,
With frost-fingers gripped and worried,
Till, half-stayed, my hurt heart pained me.
“ Rest,” I’ll say, “ my Love, and more rest,
Things unseen have life and motion
And they haunt the moonlit forest—
Soul-affronting haunt the forest,
And men meet them on the ocean.
She will look so grave and kind,
Saying “ Rest —
Rest is here for heart and mind
On this breast—
Put aside all
Fancies idle,
I will shield you— Love is best.
RODERIC QUINN.


THE
PLUM
df
Pnoe-SING I * RAZOR, ]os. 6d.; or with Ivory
Handle 15a. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
If L° r Wlt J? Iv °7. Han dles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
efc > an( * never requires grinding-. WE
guarantee each razor for two years.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exohange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
& AITKEJT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDIffEY.
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
. ’ Established 1871.
SOCIETY, in,addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN ATTSTR atta
•*- which issues Special Policies granting— vinun ny ausibalia
I Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness. iivennooa.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR REN WICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman’
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income exceeds £215 000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TattcrSall’S Hotel—
Pitt Street, Sydney, W J * Adam*, Manager.
What Visitors say of this Hotel t
“ Everything is new ; and
everything is of the best.
We cannot suggest an
improvement. ”
Tariff: 10s. per Day.
E v JE3 per Week.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
m
SPECIAL VALUrsS«EUABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V.FINCKHA COBS YORK ST. SYDNEY.
FRIEND
RA.hERVEY.
171 CLARENCEST
★
★
o
>
70
03
m
rn
CO
CO
o
NOBEL-6LAS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite, - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
‘Thistle” Brand.
£
o
SADEMA
$
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
NOBEL’S Sportiog BALLISTITC.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
TE
m
PENETRATION
Excelled
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed.
Shcmfef ™“ ™Sl ng a n C /oSted X"’ 7 reoO '” m “ d ' id fOT **“* *” d Small 6am.
AGENTS:
Messrs. Italy ety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria,
Messrs.
Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
sd
OOP
■'!
/
ut
■ fj^tm
//
6sss " it
//
rffi
iff-
i;D s
i'l !
! i
o'-"
I!
Hi
Herbert L Ross
/Architect
Sydney
Rafters may be 2 inches wide
If OF SOFF PINE, (|F OF HARD WOOD THEY
MAY BE Si OR 3 INCHES WIDE) BY UN ""
4 INCHES DEEP. LoNCITUDINAL BATTENS
AT A. A ARE 3 x | *AND ARE NAILED UNDER
THE RAFTERS TO STIFFEN THEM.
CHEAPER THAN IRON
SPECIFICATIONS.
1. Frame your roof of rafters 2ft. lOin. apart, centre to centre.
2. Provide Galvanised Wire Netting 3ft. wide, 3in. mesh and If?
gauge, which should be fixed by nailing the selvage (drawn
nai!s g Then t£ orn . rid &® to eaves with small clout
naiJs. 1 hen stretch it tight and nail the-other selvage to the
second rafter, after which secure the ends to ridge and eaves.
3 ‘ tKT v! 16 is laid , wifch netting lay the. first, sheet of
r ° ld + startin 2, at top and allowing 3in. to go over the
t | ) „ g n „/ 1 I „ to n the . ? t j er Iside 1 side - Nail the Ruberoid permanently with
lie nails provided along the ridge and down the first rafter
leaving the other edge free, the nails being 2in. apart at points.
4. Provide 3in.xlm, battens and nail securely to the under-side of
ip rafters (about 4ft. apart), first spreading the rafters (with
wedges) in order to make the netting perfectly true and firm.
5. Now set the second length of wire netting as before and when
6. Brush the two parts of Ruberoid lapping with the Ruberine (cement?
a:
lenU°ofn^n?tl ß^T e aJd’pKd wUh tt third
JbelastrX?. OV “ na ' l the «<*. ot (he KuberoidZ
7. For ve ßical walls, set the studs 2ft. lOin apart, and the battens
studs oveVwhLh'the Sngmay' oncT
ay your Ruberoid vertically and secure the same as on the roof.
Agents:
E. RICH
CO. LTD,,
SYDNEY,
BRISBANE*


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office , Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1000.
Yol. 21.—N0. 1043.
Priob 6d.
THE FEDERAL DELEGATION.
FLUNKEY (who has just brought in the cards of Messrs. Barton, Dickson, and Deakin): “ They say they have come from Australia, sir, and that they want to see you very
particular about a Bit.”
CHAMBERLAIN “ Bill? Australia?” (Deflecting.) “ I’mnot aware that I ordered anything from Australia. what they’ll take to dfink, and ray that the
usual titles to colonial, visitors will he granted. I’ll see’em presently.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OTZ 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings-sterling—with postage added where required—
which you mail pail by Post Office Order, Postal Note ,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can hare The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleoo, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressea o. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this newspaper are copyright by
the publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and aclcnowledge in the
•Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political Social, or other Articles
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for its preservation of transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
A nyon e supplying to Tub Bulletin original humorous or
other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient merit
and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or any
interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
tainin'! a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduc-
tion—i.c., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be
paid for as a suggestion only. The conditions under
which such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. \ Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
A Co.. Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 246 Sutter-street.
South Africa. —R A. Thompson and Co.. S Church
Street. Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. 11. Solomon
and Co., 22 llout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in. Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postaye on /nterprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. England £l, with
6s. 6d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of l\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, FEB^^l9oo^
The Empire, Right or Wrong.
It has obviously come to that now. There
was a time when Britain might have backed
out of the Transvaal war without making an
unusually large dint in the Ten Command-
ments or (what counts for a lot more than
the Ten Commandments) in its own in-
terests ; but that is all over. After being
held at bay by two flyspeck states for four
months—after raking up its best generals
and collecting troops from England, Scot-
land, Ireland, Wales, Canada, India, and all
the seven Australias—after the defeats,
petty as they were, of Magersfontein and
Nikolson’s Nek and Spion Kop and Tugela
River—after revealing the fact that its
Intelligence Department didn’t know enough
to provide itself with reliable maps of its
own province of Natal—it is evident that
Britain has got to win, even if all the
Decalogue goes overboard and the Sermon
on the Mount is publicly suspended as a
beautiful theory that doesn’t suit the
times and the circumstances. The world
has already set down the British mili-
tary authorities as an ass, by reason of
their perpetual unreadiness, and though
the outside world is mostly the same kind
of ass when the same conditions arise, that
doesn’t in the least alter the value of its
judgment. If Britain doesn’t win now the
world will set it down as not even a valiant
and dangerous ass, and there are terrible
possibilities about such a conclusion. The
merits of the original case remain where
they were, but Spion Kop was the last straw
which materially altered, the circumstances
of it. The spectacle of the hugely rein-
forced British army, after spending weeks
in finding out exactly where it was, scram-
bling forward under all its collection of pet
generals to make the same old blunder, has
created an impression abroad that Britain
hasn’t the leaders it' once had. No empire
can afford to inquire what is right or what is
wrong after that impression has got abroad.
The only thing left is to do whichever pays
best with all possible vigour.
• * * •
As a land Power the British empire lives
on bluff. It has a reliable white population
not much larger than that of France, no
larger than that of Germany, only about half
that of Russia. It has more frontiers to
defend than all three of them, and more
strange niggers and aliens to keep down
than all three of them twice over. It has
an army in actual training that the smallest
of the three could outnumber four times
over. In every great war for the last two
centuries, that with the revolted American
colonies alone excepted, it has had valuable
allies, but no country can depend on
always having allies. And as the spread
of railways makes outlying British territories
more accessible by land and less defensible
by sea, the bluff grows bigger. A nation with
such a stupendous amount to do and so little
preparation for doing it has to keep up a
reputation for invincibility, even if it sells
its immortal soul to do it. The present war
is a very small affair, but through strange
blundering in high places it has been very
unlucky for its size. And if it left off now a
great part of the world would think it had
been really a large affair, and it would pro-
bably become necessary very soon after to go
and pick a quarrel with somebody else in
order to demonstrate that the Empire isn’t
decrepit after all. It has become a genuine
case of “The Empire, right or wrong.” The
necessity for Britain to win a complete vic-
tory has become so absolute that it doesn’t
matter in the least now whether the Empire
is right or wrong.
* * • •
Presumably every person of British
descent hopes in his heart that the empire
will win. This great Christian nation
is just plain, ordinary heathen at
bottom—just as heathen as if it worshipped
a stuffed animal with a glass eye on
some coral island. It doesn’t love its
neighbor as itself. It doesn’t judge his case
as it would its own. It doesn't believe that
the meek shall inherit the earth—it knows
better than that. When the crisis comes
it forgets all about its alleged gos-
pel of peace; its churches and cathedrals
represent only 1900 years of wasted brick
and profitless mortar; its preachers are
just as human as the priests of Baal
in old Assyria. From one end to
another the clannish tie of common blood
and a common language asserts itself above
the veneer of a bogus Christianity. And if
the pretence that this country takes any in-
terest in the merits of the case were only
dropped—if it were only announced that
Christianity was regretfully suspended and
the Law and the Gospel hung up under
compulsion till the war was over, and that a
Power which was going to be an honest,
hard-fighting heathen till further orders
was going in to win, right or wrong—
things would be a lot easier.
* • *
Britain must needs take the Transvaal
and the Orange State now and kill a very
large number of Boers, in order to prove that
Tugela and Spion K«»p and Magersfontein
were mere accidents and small ones at that,
and that the empire isn’t in the least de-
crepit after all. If it doesn’t prove this in
South Africa the inevitable result will be
that it will presently have to prove it some-
where else against a much larger enemy, and
kill a much larger number of people in the
process. Something must be run into, and
it has become a case of running into the
cheapest thing available. The only thing
that can be done to alleviate the heathenism
of a hard situation is to give these dead
Boers a decent tombstone and a kindly men-
tion in history. A people whose empire is
built up of such a vast straggling multi-
tude of strange races and unknown
quantities as the British empire is, is held
together by its prestige, and it dare
not show even the appearance of de-
feat by a foe so very much less in point of
size. Every military nation has to keep
up the great military bluff. The enormous
effort required to down the two republics is
itself a disaster. Not to down them after
making the effort would be worse disaster.
* * * *
As things are now the necessity of carrying
the war to ar-successful conclusion at any cost
is sufficient explanation without saying any-
thing about the morality of it. One
necessity is worth a hundred moralities. The
cant of the Christian Jingo is a sickening
CHADBAND-ism, but if there is an opening
for any kind of Jingoism which doesn’t mix
up the patter of piety with the necessity
for doing . impious things, The Bulletin
doesn’t mind making one. It is not a
case of blood being thicker than water
—it is a case of blood being thicker
than Christianity. If the blessing of the
church could be lifted off the British army
in South Africa—if preachers and other
weary characters in black hats and black
coat-tails would give up trying to fit in
their theoretical gospel of peace and non-
resistance with the practical heathenism
which makes war and big guns and conquest
unavoidable, and would leave off pro-
fessing to manufacture a square circle
and a globular triangle then Jingo-
ism would become respectable. For Britain
to back out of the Transvaal war now with-
out gaining everything it has ever demanded,
and possibly a great deal more, would be
strictly in accordance with the teachings of
that divine sermon which is the epitome of
its alleged religion, but it would almost cer-
tainly bi'ing abouc such disaster in later
years that the British nation would wish it
had never heard of its religion. And but
for the habit of trailing a wholly unsuit-
able creed at the tail-end of a now unavoid-
able errand of destruction, the errand would
look quite respectable.
The Common, Sordid Bill.
There are many aspects of patriotism*, and within
the last few months Australia has seen all of them
save one. And as that One is about the most
important of them, all, The Bulletin proposes to
bring the Want of it under public notice. So far
Australia has done everything on Britain’s behalf
that it really liked to do—everything. that was
pleasant—everything that was a relief in the dull-
brown and sage-green monotony of life, and a
joyful stirring up of the dregs of daily existence.
For the sake of Britain many adventurous young
men have gone off on a pleasant voyage, in a
pleasant ship, a,t a very decent wage, and gone on
an errand that is probably no more deadly than
facing the fevers and spears of Papua While
gold-seeking at no wage at all. For Britain’s
sake many people have had sundry pleasant
holidays, seeing the contingent off, and many
have kissed the nice-looking young men Of
the contingents, and the contingents have
kissed many nice girls ; and some few people have
had very excellent victuals and drink at patriotic
banquets; and almost everybody has had great
and pleasant excitement reading the war news in
the papers ; and the papers have made more
money than usual; and a few very wild enthusiasts
have had a good time throwing stones at persons
supposed to be disloyal, or trying with righteous
indignation to get them ousted from their billets
wherefore there will be more billets for people
who are loyal. For the sake of the empire this
country has drank, shouted, sang, kept holiday,
gone to special patriotic theatrical snows, and
written to the papers about its own virtues and
the vices of the other fellow wbo doesn’t hold the
same opinion as it does itself. It has had extra
horse-races and bike-races and picnics for the
sake, of the empire. Out of its love for the
empire it has risen up and done everything
that a pleasure-loving and adventurous people
wouldn’t have missed doing for a lot of money in
any. case, and it has taken great credit to itself for
having this good time. Yet the one thing that
was disagreeable and sordid and hard and neces-
sary it has left undone with absolute unanimity.
Its love for the empire didn’t go so far as that.
It has made no provision for paying the bill.
* • • *
The bill will be a large one, and either this
generation must pay it, or it must be openly or
surreptitiously added to the public debt and left
to posterity to pay. The Bulletin votes that
this generation pays it like a man. If it doesn’t—
well, every Jingo who won’t face the payment
of the bill is a traitor to the empire, even
though he yells anti-Boer sentiments till his
voice cracks, and breaks 48 windows in the
houses of allegedly disloyal citizens, and sings
the “Absent-minded Beggar” all night, and
assaults 144 miscellaneous and suspected foreigners
in. as many public-houses, and throws his hat two
miles, high in his exuberance. If this country isn’t
sufficiently loyal to the empire to face the only
necessary concomitant of loyalty which has no
pleasing features about it, then its alleged loyalty
is only sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal. It
is hardly even respectable enough to be called a
cymbal, and partakes rather of the nature of a
cheap mouth-organ, or a comb covered with
brown-paper. The payment of the bill is the only
thing that represents hard, dull unemotional
grind. There is no excitement or pomp about it.
It. signifies less luxury or more work—more strug-
gling up and down a plough-furrow, more urging
of the dismal poley-cow on the way it should go,
more sordid bootmaking or tree-felling or digging
out of coal. Anyway, it signifies more misery.
The bill has to be paid whether the cause for
which it was incurred is good or bad. The Jingo
crowd in general asserts that the cause
is a good one, and yet hasn’t said a
word, about any special measures to meet
the inevitable outlay, The Bulletin doesn’t
think it a good one, but it recognises that it is a
mean thing to leave future generations to pay for
this generation’s loyalty; also, that it is a degrad-
ing thing for this generation to have the kudos and
the excitement, and the holiday and the banners,
and the advertisement and the V.C.—and pass the
pain and the sordid drudgery of the business on to
the infant. So it proposes that the people of to-
day should pay up.
* * * •
So far, they have done next to nothing in that
direction. The Patriotic Fund is supposed to be
for the injured and the widows and orphans, but
it. leaves the ordinary daily expenses of the expe-
dition quite unprovided for. The Bushman’s
Fund is for a special purpose, though it won’t
cover more than a fraction of the expense even
there, and it also leaves the expenses of the regular
contingents quite unprovided for. These expenses
will be very Heavy, yet, even in the wildest hour
of popular fervor, not one G-ovemment' in the
seven dared to propose levying a special tax to
cover this heavy special outlay. N.S.W., where ex-
penditure is even now some £300,000 ahead of re-
venue; has already charged part of its war-bill to
loans in a small, unobtrusive way. What is called
the “ reserve stock of ammunition ” was bought
out of previous loans,, and it has mostly gone to be
used up in South Africa, so it is to he replaced by
buying another “ reserve stock of ammunition ” to
the extent of £lOO,OOO out of borrowed money.
By this means, a great part of the outfit of the
troops is charged to posterity. Then, to relieve
the revenue and enable it to bear the strain of pay-
ing the N.S.W. Contingent’s wages, an unusual
number of small works which would otherwise be
charged, to revenue, are charged to loans instead.
This is just the same as paying the Contingent’s
4s. 6d. a day out of loans direct—only not quit® so
honest. S.A. reckoned, before the present excite-
ment started, on having a surplus of exactly £195
for the year, and Victoria anticipated a surplus of
£33,910. Victoria now reckons on a deficit and on
stopping the payments iA reduction of the old
shortage. S.A. doesn’t say what it reckons on.
Neither province has made any arrangements
to meet the expense involved by its outbreak
of loyal enthusiasm; so apparently it will simply
be passed on to. posterity in the shape of so
much extra deficit for posterity to pay off. And
the other provinces are m the same situation, more
or less.
* * » *
. Whether the bill involved in Australia’s yeam-
mg-to help the empire is paid directly out of bor-
rowed money, or indirectly out of borrowed money
by charging a large number of other things to
loans so as to ease the revenue and enable it to
stand the strain, or by stopping the liquidation of
our own old deficits thereby leaving more of our
deficits for our children to pay, or by adding to
the deficit with the same result, it all comes to
the same thing. It all boils down to the fact that
the people who had no hand in making the war
are to face the one grievous trouble and responsi-
bility therein involved. It all amounts to the
fact that the big grown man of to-day won’t
carry his own burden and piles it on to the
narrow shoulders of the infant—which is ail
inexpressibly mean thing to do in anv case. And
it is a very dismal commentary on this country’s
alleged devotion to the empire’s interests. A
community has presumably the right to spend its
own money in aily cause, but it has no right to
spend other people’s money by way of demonstra-
ting its own patriotism. If the amount is large
the wrbng done to posterity is so much the worse.
If it is small, the meanness of the present patriot
who wouldn’t even make a small sacrifice for his
alleged principles is so much the more glaring,
Yet so far not a soul, to The Bulletin’s know-
ledge, has suggested that the people who get the
glory and the excitement should face the disagree-
able aspect of the case also. The nearest approach
thereto has been a patriotic suggestion that A
new. stamp should be issued, and the proceeds
of its sale Used towards War expenses—which
simply means, after all, that the public Would use
fewer of the existing stamps, so what was gained
in this direction would be lost to the postal
revenue in another way, and the deficit that would
ensue would be left unprovided for just as it is
now,
* * * •
Britain also charges part of its war-bill to loans;
but then Britain manfully pays off its debt at the
rate of millions a year in time of peace ; Australia
never pays off anything. What the case calls for
here is a special tax to cover the war invoice, so
that this generation can say that its hands are
clean, and that its patriotism is honest, and that
its alleged willingness to make sacrifices for the
empire isn’t all a sham. An extra 3d. in the £
income-tax would cover the expenses in five Or si*
years at most. So Would a poll-tax, or art addi-
tional land-tax, or a bicycle licence duty, Or arty
one of a dozen more or less unusual expedients.
That would be a real proof of devotion to the im-
perial ideal. All the cheering, all the wild cries
of “she bumps” and other like irrelevancies, all the
kissing of the contingenters, and the holiday-
making, and. the joy of reading the cablegrams,
and the thrill of aiming half-a-crown at the
eye of the girl who sings a Kipling ballad, and
the extra newspaper circulation that arises from
the .war, and the profitable meat contracts, and
the joy of havinga big advt. through sending a
cheque to the Patriotic Fund, and the extra
drinking of the Queen’s health, and the fun of
running after suspected Boer sympathisers with
road-metal —all of these prove nothing. They
don’t provide a copper towards the big inevitable
bill for. the actual cost of Australia’s share in the
campaign, and so long as this country remains in
that state the alleged readiness to perish for the
empire is a thing to be viewed with doubt if not
utter scorn. Even the fact that a lot of people
are willing to go, at 4s. 6d. a day, to have a thrill-
ing adventure, doesn’t necessarily prove very much.
There is doubtless a vast amount of real enthusi-
asm among them ; still Britain could have raised
10,000 very decent soldiers on the same terms
among the wild-cat republics of South and Central
America if she had wanted to try such an experi-
ment. They might not care a straw for Britain
itself, but in half the countries of the earth it is
unhappily the case that there are thousands of
brave men who would fight hard for any country
whose 4s. 6d. a day is as reliable as Britain’s is.
And the fact that the rest of the community stays
at home in a state of enthusiasm, and refuses to
burden itself with any provision for paying the
4s. 6d. doesn’t prove much either. No Ministry
wants to close its financial year with a discredit-
able shortage, and it is tolerably certain that most
of them would have proposed extra taxation to
cover the extra expense if they had believed the
popular fervor was deep enough to stand that.
Apparently none of them thought it Was deep
enough. Possibly they were wrong, but there is
up to now a grievous lack of evidence about their
wrongness. Anyhow, this anti-jingo paper is the
first to propose that the present generation should
make a genuine, all-round sacrifice for the empire.
Will some prominent jingo rise and second the
proposition ?
The S.A. Copper Boom.
Dear . Bulletin. —Not so many years ago the
Adelaide press used to refer to that portion of
S.A. north of Port Augusta as “our magnificent
Pastoral Country”—and so it was then—to some
extent at least. Subsequently Playford gave the
lands to farmers, rents were raised, runs aban-
doned one by one, and the Government now keeps
a great part of the country as a dog-reserve. Tne
farmers wouldn’t, or rather couldn’t, pay rents, and
the Government dare not turn them off the land,
because the men are so frail, weary and worn they
would fall down if hustled, and, besides, there is no
where else to put them. So what with Playford,
and take-all, smut, farmers, rabbits, locusts, mice,
2 bushel averages, red rust, drought, hot winds,
low prices, wild dogs and sundries, the press got
ashamed of mentioning the GoD-forsaken waste.
After the rabbits had eaten the scrub, and cotton,
salt, and blue-bush appeared spasmodically
where it used to grow luxuriantly, and
the country generally . was snail - bald, a
small rise in copper reminded the S.A. papers
that the north was one mass of high - grade
metalliferous ores, and that they had said so many
times before; and they boldly referred in leaded
type to “Our Immense Mineral Resources in the
North.” Their best young men were sent forth
to interview all such interested parties as pub-
licans, storekeepers, etc., and their views issued
broadcast to the. public. Some old local preacher,
who had been in Queensland for the past twenty
years, told the Register the copper was there, if
they could only find it. Some idiot wrote
that an area of 5000 square miles of mostly
horizontal slates should be prospected by diamond
drills, and that a school should be formed to train
prospectors in the use of the Rontgen Rays, etc.
The Old Northerner laughed, and recognised that it
was about time the old bald North should have its
periodical copper boom, and so he hired some
sandy-blighted fossil to peg out under a new name
the old claim he had sold in 1888, and sold before
that m a previous copper boom in 1873. Then the
typical Old Northerner sent a telegram to the
press about an important copper discovery, and
sat in his burrow and waited. And they came,
the syndicators and a fresh crop of experts that
would buy anything green, and matters began to
look up. All this time the papers were hammering
away that what was wanted was men of abilitv,
integrity and - capital to take the matter in hand,
and two or three philanthropic W.A. millionaires
tumbled—and let the public have one-tenth of a
second-hand surface show for £IO,OOO.
* * • •
Soon the boom was at its height, and telegrams
hummed like bees on the wires to tell that one
truck of ore had passed through Farina last week,
consigned to Wallaroo, and shares went up,
and all the mines had big lodes, whips of
ore, &c. ; and assays were circulated—and—
you know the old game. After a short time


inquisitive shareholders, of the stamp that
ought to be put down by some short Act,
began to ask why that truck of ore didn’t
arrive. Then the companies which had the most
ore could not get it carted—because no respectable
beast of burden would live in that blasted desert.
Some mines had lots of ore too poor to transport
and wanted water for concentrating. Others (the
most of them) had no ore, but proudly explained
that they had a well within a mile of them. The
more honest companies wound up. And so the
Boom burst, and you will hear no more about the
mineral resources until the Federal Parliament is
asked to sanction the making of a line from Her-
fott to the Queensland border. The GoD-knows-
ow-manyth S.A. copper bubble has gone to
pieces, and the truck of ore that passed Farina has
evaporated. But seriously, if all this wealth is
there —and if it ever was there it is there still, for
no one has taken it away—do the South Aus-
tralians honestly believe in their mineral resources;
and if they did would they develop them ? I say
no.
* * • *
In the desert 300 miles N.W. from Port
Augusta, is a place called Wilgena—similar to the
worst of W.A. country—sand, salt-lakes, and
granite. From this sheol a prospector sent
down a lump of silver lead to get assayed. It
turned out to be tin, good enough to eat, showing
60 per cent, of metal. Careful and separate en-
quiries left no doubt that the specimen had come
from Wilgena, and other rich samples of the same
distinctive character were received. There was
obviously an opening for a bona-fide prospecting
syndicate. Such a syndicate was formed with the
assistance of a lawyer. A good man was selected
and sent up. The man was new to the game, and
did not understand what was required from a
prospector with an £BOO S.A. syndicate at his back.
He should have slumbered in his bunk and waited
till the camels that were not sent for came in, then
shoo’d them off again. He didn’t. He made a
mistake, and is a disgrace to the genus prospector,
for he quickly got some men together and did some
good work. On receipt of his first report instruc-
tions were sent to him to sell all plant and return.
Wonderingly he came back 600 miles, and at the
winding-up meeting the lawyer explained to him
that the syndicate was sadly disappointed. It had
spent £IOO in Adelaide on stationery, and the
prospector’s travelling expenses had cost £25, and
he had wasted three weeks valuable time prospect-
ing, and wilfully squandered £25, and with that
time and capital he had not dropped on a tin
mountain valued at £20,000,000, and they were
going to wind up, and the loss of that £25 would
be a warning to them never to engage that pros-
pector again. And they wound up. S.A.’s
struggles to develope the immense mineral wealth
of the North are so violent that the province will
break asunder in the back some day.—l.H.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Melbourne Tramways ancj the Minimum
Wage.
Vio. Leg. Assembly was last week invited to give
practical and specific effect to its alleged belief in
the minimum-wage theory—and it wasn’t game.
The occasion was the taking through committee of
the amending Tramway Bill. The first clause,
enacting that the days of labor should be eight
hours, and that any time beyond that limit should
be paid for as time-and-a-quarter, met with con-
siderable opposition from the Tory irreconcilables.
Irvine, Attorney-General in the alleged-Liberal
M'Shiel’s Ministry, with that nice perception of
the interchangeability of black and white and
that due regard for dubious phraseology that
characterise the law, argued lengthily, but
weakly, that the special payment for overtime
mentioned in the original Act merely meant ordi-
nary payment for “extra overtime.” Ex-Premier
Turner, having recovered some of his old-time
backbone, took a much firmer stand than when he
aforetime rose from the Treasury bench. After
telling the House that, for over two years, he had
vainly endeavored to come to some reasonable
understanding with the company of sweaters, he
declared straight-out that—speaking for the Oppo-
sition —his view was that the original Act declared
a week’s work to be 48 hours, and that ‘‘special
payment” meant just what it said—a special pay-
ment, and something over and above the ordi-
nary rate of payment. Finally the House
decided, on the voices, that 48 hours should con-
stitue a week’s work and that overtime should be
paid for at time-and-a-quarter. Then the second
clause, providing a minimum wage of 7s. per day,
was negatived without debate, and an amendment
providing a weekly minimum wage of £2 shared a
similar fate. In the absence of any minimum
wage the proviso that overtime shall be paid for as
time-and-a-quarter is of very little use. If the
hours are 60 per week and the wage is Bd. per
hour with no allowance for overtime it is obviously
£2 a week. And if the hours are 48 per week and
the overtime is time-and-a-quarter, and the wage
is 7M. an hour for the regulation 48 hours and the
12 hours overtime are a quarter more per hour,
that is just as obviously £1 19s. per week.
Making the co. pay extra for overtime is no con-
cession unless it is also provided that the extra
money won’t be deducted from the money paid for
ordinary time. Then the rueful-looking M ‘lntyre
and the equally fearsome Gillies proposed that
the co. should be allowed to deduct £lO,OOO per
annum from its payments to the sinking-fund, to
recoup itself for this alleged loss in giving the men
the 48 hours to which they have always been
entitled. Seeing that, by paying their men at the
ordinary rate instead of the special rate provided,
the company has diddled them out of between
£15,000 and £20,000, this proposal was a choice
specimen of frozen gall, and it is pleasing to note
that the House promptly squashed it. The bill
was then passed on to the House of 48 Rich Land-
lords, and as to what may happen there no man
knows, for the 48 Immoveables are in a bad temper
just now, and have been amending the Factories
Bill to such an extent as to cause a block.
Probably the House of Levi, the Jew, and Cor-
nelius Job Ham, which isn’t a nice thing to sit
alongside Levi, will deposit the Tramway Bill in
the gutter with the remark that the time has not
yet arrived for legalising the eight-hour system,
and that the interests of the shareholders must be
respected, and that the conditions of a contract
must not be lightly interfered with ; regardless of
the fact that one of the parties has persistently
and wilfully broken most of those conditions from
the very start. One incident of the debate is so
very unusual as to almost take the breath away.
One M.L.A. (Gillott), refused to vote on the
question as he was a tramway shareholder, and
therefore an interested party. Gillott is quite a
new member, and is, politically speaking, young
and honest; he will acquire wisdom by-and-Sye.
♦
The Moral Caterpillar.
Otm old friend, the Jingo man’s one solitary hunk
of argument, turns up again—this time in the cor-
respondence columns of the Star :— •
(To the Editor of the Australian Star.)
Sir,—l have read with pleasure in your paper the article
dealing with The Bulletin’s attitude towards England in
the present war. I think it very ridiculous that The
Bulletin should imagine that it knows more than the
Government of England about the rights of the war.
According to The Bulletin’s own arguments the majority
is always right, and I do not think it can claim a majority
against the Government and people of England, and the
thousands of people inhabiting her colonies. Even if it
could do so, I think that it is a most miserable and mean
proceeding to try and villify, and dishonor, the country
from whence it sprung, under whose laws it is enabled to
make a living, and to enjoy the privileges of citizenship.
—Yours, &c., Jackeroo.
Of course it is ridiculous for The Bulletin to
know more about the rights of the war than the
“ Government of England.” And, in addition, it
is ’wildly ridiculous for the Star to pretend to
know more about fiscal matters than the “Govern-
ment of England,” and when it professes to know
in its own small way that Protection is the best
thing when the British Government knows that
Freetrade is best it presents a regretable spectacle.
Likewise its conduct in knowing more about the
Dretfus case than the French Government,
and more about how the Transvaal should be
managed than the Transvaal Government, are
painful examples of the small boy giving good
advice to his parent. As to the conduct of the
Star and all the other Australian dailies in profes-
sing to know better than the British Government
how the war should be conducted, and giving
hints to British strategists, it is simply a disgust-
ing case of high treason, aggravated by ingrati-
tude, incivility and procrastination. For want of
space, no further allusion will be here made to the
smfulness of the Star’s many articles on the suf-
fering and poverty of England—said to arise from
Freetrade —and the ridiculousness of its profes-
sions that it knows better how the English social
problem should be tackled than the British
Government itself. The Jingo crowd in Australia
(which includes almost all this country’s prominent
politicians) tries to lay it down as an axiom that
on this one matter there must be no independent
thought or independent judgment. Yet it hasn’t
the courage of its own alleged opinions. It daren’t
set up the theory that a State-subsidised Church,
or privately-owned railways, or unpaid members
of Parliament must be the right thing because
Britain says they are. It won’t start paying off
its public debt out of revenue because Britain
holds that is the right thing to do. It daren’t
allege that the British Government was necessarily
right when it held that 30,000 men were sufficient
te extinguish the war, though that Government’s
utter ignorance of Transvaal affairs on that
point seems to imply that, it might be equally
ignorant on others. It is too late to hold
up the Government which made so many blunders
as infallible. The individual whq believes
in the absolute justice of the war from his
own intelligent study of the case is one that no
one can take objection to, and the one who be-
lieves that it is absolutely necessary now for Bri-
tain to win, be the merits of the case what they
may, is undoubtedly right. Britain can’t afford
to lose now, even if its case was a thousand times
worse than it is. But the person who alleges that
the war must be just.because the British Govern-
ment says so is not a man —he is only one more of
the Servile Things that Crawl. He is the material
that slaves are made of. And just now Australia
is unfortunately pretty well covered with Servile
Things that Crawl. It looks like a place infested
with moral caterpillars.
Victoria’s Beautiful Penal “ System.”
The state of the penal system in Victoria, at pre-
sent, as set forth m the House by M. L. A. Hume
Cook, constitutes a tremendous indictment of the
incapacity and negligence of previous chief secs,
of that province. Cook showed beyond question
that the present alleged system is not only not
reformative, but it treats old long-sentence men
more leniently than “ short-'timers ” and first
offenders, and year by year it increases the per-
centage of “old hands.” The present Inspector-
General introduced an original idea by which male
prisoners spend the last ten days prior to their
release in separate confinement, while women are
so separated for 30 days. In answer to complaints
the LG. said that this tended to prevent their
coming back after release. The lie direct to
which fanciful allegation is given by the fact that
during the past two years the local police have
been habitually requested to re-arrest discharged
prisoners at Pentridge gates on the ground of ill-
health-, and have them returned for further
separate treatment ; and also by the particularly
damning fact that while, in ’BB, the number of
prisoners with at least three convictions was 2000,
the percentage steadily increased until in ’9B, out of
a smaller total number of prisoners, the ‘ ‘ old hands ”
with three or more convictions were over 3000.
Furthermore, since ’95, though the daily average
of prisoners had not varied to any great extent,
the number of cases of sickness steadily increased
from 1044 in ’95 to 1200 in ’96, 1376 in ’97, and
1400 in ’9B. But the most convincing fact —the
fact that shows-up most distinctly the utter rotten-
ness of the whole system of treatment —is that,
during the last ten years, no less than 423 prisoners
have been transferred to lunatic asylums. Of
these, 92 have been removed during the last three
years, and the Inspector-General’s report on these
92 states that in three cases such insanity origi-
nated in gaol, in four others the originating cause
was unknown, while of the remaining 85 nothing
is said; the inference forcing itself, therefore,
that either Victoria is in the habit of gaoling its
lunatics, or else its gaols are a vast breeding-
ground for insanity germs. Another point is that,
during the last five years, while the number of
prisoners had decreased by one-sixth, the number
of punishments inflicted in gaol had increased
by one-fourth —most of these punishments being
inflicted in camera by a couple of magistrates,
whose powers, often utilised to their full extent,
far exceed those of the Supreme Court Judge who
originally sentenced the prisoner. Once again let
it be stated: No -prisoner should ever have his
sentence increased or extended except by trial
before a jury in open Court. Even the slow-going
fogies of Westralia begin to recognise that, while
England has long since granted this measure of
justice. It is interesting and characteristic of
Victoria to learn that the penal authorities have
recently abolished the evidence-book placing on
record the punishments inflicted in prison, so that,
unless information be voluntarily furnished to the
press, no man knows what goes on inside the iron
gates, or how many men have had their sentences
increased, or how long some of them have been
there. The beneficial effects of publicity have
been wholly cut off. In fact, if any man once gets
into gaol on a six months sentence, there appears
to be no certainty that he will ever get out,
especially if he should happen to incur the enmity
of some unscrupulous official. In reply to these
and other charges of negligence and conniv-
ance at cruelty and brutality, Minister M'Coll
weakly promised an investigation into the
matter by the officials of. the department—
an investigation by the persons accused,
who will sit in judgment on themselves—
which is just as much of a farce as expecting a
criminal to catch himself and bring himself to
justice. The charge is that the department is
stupid, brutal, ignorant, and antiquated, that its
methods are out of date, that. it is going back-
wards instead of forward, that it is a failure and a
disgrace, and not worth its salary and its salt.
And M‘Coui/, the feeble, clumsy M‘Coll, pro-
mises to let the department inquire into itself, and
look at its own long ears in the glass, to decide if
it is really the ass and worse that the evidence,says
it is.
4 —_—_
Percy Wilkinson, in his valuable criticism of the
Victorian wine industry, leaves the adulterators
without a leg to stand upon. The Victorian
climate, says P.W., offers a wine-maker no excuse
for introducing salicylic acid into the business, for
he can, by taking trouble, control the temperature
of fermentation and the proportion of acidity in
the must, as is done in the hot climates of Southern
France, Algiers and California, and by the more
progressive Australian vignerons. “ The foreign
wine-maker can (and does) produce a wine and
send it across the equator, store it for years,
and sell it in perfect condition in a country
where the use of salicylic acid is not for-
bidden, without condescending to avail him-
self of the free opportunity for adulteration.”
Mr. Wilkinson’s story is the same old tale that all
seemingly competent critics have told. The
grapes are good, the climate is favorable, and only
man is vile where the wine industry is concerned.
One Government vineyard, managed by a couple
of enthusiastic experts on the most conservative
principles for ten years, would probably astonish
the natives with its matured results attheendof the
period. But no Government cares to start a work
whi§h will reflect no glory on anybody for the next
ten years. Political humanity is not built that
way.
The spy fever has fairly got hold of the Sydney
Pastoralists’ Union. Some men who have joined
or want to join as Absent-minded Bush Beggars
have been secretly denounced (“Delated” is the
old 17th century term, according to Roger North)
as individuals who don’t thoroughly approve of
the war. The charges come by post, and are
mostly anonymous. And the bosses of the move-
ment are so serious in the idea that the country is
in peril and the enemy howling at the gates, that
it sends these beery jokes on to the Brigade Office
so that vast precautions and cannon and entrench-
ments may be taken on the subject. Says the
S.M. Herald :
In all cases the military authorities are informed, and
the chief staff-officer, Colonel Mackenzie, takes the
necessary precautionary measures. The suspected men
are not at once drummed out, but unless inquiries abso-
lutely prove the suspicion arrant nonsense, the suspects
fail in their tests or are not ultimately called on to enlist.
When a letter comes saying that the unknown
writer heard Billjim speak disrespectfully of
Britain, or Europe, or the equator while under the
influence of the rum that has plug tobacco in it
the “necessary precautions” are taken—the way
Belshazzar didn’t take them in Babylon, where-
fore Cyrus burgled the city late at night
and the empire fell. It all sounds beauti-
fully large and dark and military, and sug-
gests the commander moving stealthily through
underground passages at night looking for
bones and clues with a torch. There are no real
disloyalists in Australia—only a lot of people who
don’t take the present military fervor so seriously
as others. But no great military movement is
complete without conspirators, and people who
are trying to secretly surrender Five Dock to the
enemy, or to carry incriminating documents on
foot by night from Watson’s Bay to the Boer
camp. These people are necessary “ props,” and
the authorities try to supply them by darkly in-
vestigating the truth of the report that Billjim
was once disrespectful while mentally unclothed
and possessed by seven long beers.
There is a great mountain of mystery lying atop
of the recent alleged outbreak of bubonic plague
in Adelaide. When the combative Ramsay Smith
left the Hospital for the chairmanship of the
Board of Health, the old rumpus seemed decently
buried ; but when he accepted a suspicious case as
a proven one of plague, and put the Hospital in
quarantine, and raised a scare, all that section of
Adelaide that hates the political party which
appointed him and the other section which was
affected by the disturbance of interprovincial
trade sent along to him all the dead rats and cats
and dogs they could nose out. One warehouse
cat, which had been crushed between two cases,
was a special prize exhibit. Amid it all, Opposi-
tion-leader Solomon raged up and down expressing
his conviction that Smith ought to be made to eat
all those cats with Kingston (who appointed
Smith) to assist him. If it was a case of bubonic
plague there is a pretty general belief that the
patient, who at the beginning was simply a very
bad case of dirt, contracted it at the hospital; and
people naturally want to know how on earth it got
there. There are so many people who are remark-
ing that a doctor might have been experimenting
with bacillus that sooner or later an enquiry into
that aspect of the case seems inevitable.
♦
Melbourne is suffused with simple piety, and its
Seawtchbyterian regard for the Sawbath is over-
whelming. The other day it routed out an ancient
statute of Charles the Second — Nell Gwynne’s
friend —to deal with a barber who shaved a man
on Sunday. Said statute, dated 1676, enacts that
any person over the age of 14 years doing any
work or labor on the Lord’s Day, the same not
being a work of necessity or charity, etc., etc.,
shall pay a fine, or be. placed in the stocks, or be
whipped at the cart-tail, or have his ears abbrevi-
ated, or something of that sort. The barber was
fined ss. for shaving on the blessed day. Some
day some ill-regulated person may get annoyed
a.nd put this law in motion thoroughly, and then
Melbourne will be treated to the spectacle of ‘half-
a-dozen tramway directors in the stocks arid a
score of law-breaking shipowners and a Minister
of Railways being scruffed away to durance vile.
—+.
The little Austrian community in Maoriland has
a paper of its own—the Danica— and it is largely
devoted to complaints about the underhand dodges
and devices adopted by the Maorilarid Boers to
prevent the Austrian Outlanders getting the
franchise. One item from a recent leading article
in the Danica :
They say that every alien is entitled to become a British
subject after 12 months’ residence in the colony; but,
when the applications are made, the Government desire
that every person applying for naturalisation shall be
known to a Magistrate or a J.P. for not less than two
years. We may say here that there are thousands upon
thousands of Britishers and aliens who are not known to
a Magistrate or a J.P. at all, yet they are for years in the
colony. But who are known to a Magistrate or a J.P. ? All
those low class people and thieves, who often come
before the Court to receive their sentence and
punishment. Then these people are entitled to
become British subjects because they are so well
known to a Magistrate or a J.P., and honest persons can-
not become British subjects because they are not known
to a J.P. But this rule applies only to the Austrians and
Chinese. The New Zealand cry is—Why do the Austrians
not become permanent settlers, and then they will have
the same privileges as any other Britisher ? That is very
easy to say; but when the Austrians become settlers, then
they receive worse treatment than Chinese. Here is one
example of how the Austrians are treated. On March
last some Austrians took up Crown land at Herekino, and
about two months ago they applied for letters of
naturalisation, but received no attention up to date.
When those people spent their money by working on their
farm to improve the land, they went to the gumfield to
make a few shillings to keep themselves and their farm.
They were digging for a few days, when the ranger came
over and summoned them to the Court for trespassing on
Kauri Gum Reserves, and they were ordered to pay about
£4 costs because they were not British subjects.
We are all Boers and the Boer is much the same
everywhere. The trouble is that it is so easy to
seethe mote in the other fellow’s Boer, and t<>
overlook the beam in our own Boer.
On the Altar of Mammon.
rfalt of the Barth ! sing the song of wretchedness,
sing it strong and bitterly, with its shameful
chorus.
Drain again the hateful cup, ’tis your wine of
Italy. Drain the dregs of bitterness that the
devils pour us.
When before the Judgment Throne, whose shall
be the shame of it, for those who stagger
heavenward, seamed face and weary feet ?
On the human devils, who shall fix the blame of
it for those who were the rich man’s salt,
whose labor was his meat.
By your wretched cradles stood a devil beckoning.
Naught was there to hold to, save your parents
steeped in crime.
If Heaven’s God’s a just one, ye shall pay no
reckoning; ye shall not be called on for the
way ye spent your time.
Though our tongues are foul, ’tis the foulness of
our keeping. Comrades of mine, we reap not
what we sow.
Devils sow the crops for us, we must do the reap-
ing. Every year more bitter shall the bitter
harvest grow.
Foul is our work and foul shall our pleasure be—
scanty though our pleasure, we must catch it
where we can;
Drunkenness and thieving, lying and adultery—
these are this world’s pleasures for the honest
working-man.
“ Thou shalt not steal.” Satan in his malice never
cracked a joke like this unto a soul accurst.
Give unto a thirsty man a brimming crystal chalice,
and bid him, as he loves his soul, not to quench
his thirst.
Every year more bitter is the wretched harvest
growing. No longer can the reaper keep reap-
ing and be dumb.
Every year increases the debt of hate that’s owing,
every day brings nearer the dawn that soon
must come.
Ye who made the laws that foster wealth and nurse'
it, ye shall rue the day should the reaper’s
hand grow red;
Ye shall rue the day, and most bitterly shall curse
it when the hate'of all the ages shall fall upon
your head.
Cast your bread upon the waters. And surely have
ye done it. Is it Glory’s vain desiring—is it
brutal ignorance ?
The web of Crime is round us and ye are they who
spun it. Ye might write a name immortal,
yet ye fling away the chance.
Ye have given to the missions and churches have
ye builded with the money ye have stinted to
the reaper that ye starvest,
And ye thought the heart was golden when ’twas
only thinly gilded, and ye said ye sowed for
God, yet the devil reaps the harvest.
Oh! ye wretched hypocrites ! see ye not the faces
of our sons and daughters steeped in ignorance
and want ?
With such a field before ye, must ye seek in
foreign places to gratify your vanity and j ustif y
your cant ?
Ye have gone unto the heathen, as your brothers
ye have hailed them; are not our children
worthy of your succor and relief ?
They are hungry and ye starve them, unlettered
and ve gaol them, and we shall hold ye guilty
for the harlot and the thief.
Ye evangelized the heathen—as an offering ye have
made him, that He might bear ye witness of
your deeds upon the earth.
On the altar of your conscience ye smugly knelt
and laid him, and all the imps of Satan
laughed in shrill sarcastic mirth.
For ye made another offering on Mammon’s cursed
altar, ye knelt unto a false God, yea, humbly
knelt and prayed him,
And the weeping of our children was your false
God’s psalm and psalter, and our wretched-
ness and woe the offering that ye made him.
C.P.Q.C.
Ballad of the Cornstalk.
The Bulletin
He hung up the stock-whip and laid by the
It may be for months and it may be for years;
It may be for ever—but restless was he:
“ I’m tired of the bush and I’m off for a spree !.
“ I’m going to the war, and I don’t know what it’s
But the other chaps are going with the Bush
Contingent men,
But if I should stay behind, there’ll be trouble in
the wind,
For my girl would throw me over when they come
back agen.”
He rode to the homestead to bid her good-bye,
And pride for her boy lit the tear in her eye.
They kissed at the slip-rails again and again—
And long may she wait by the slip-rails in vam.
“For I’m going to the war,” &c.
He mounted his waler and rode to the sea
(He was sick of the bush and he longed for a
spree),
He looked’up the “member” and called for his
aid
To go to the war in the Bushman’s Brigade.
“ For I’m going to the war,” &c.
To spy out the Boer lines he rode with a force
And he in the gloaming lay shot from his horse,
A gum-tree transplanted that grew on the veldt—
And that’s where they laid him, for that’s how
they felt.
“For I’m going to the war,” &c.
She waits by the slip-rails at sunset again,
But long may she wait by the slip-rails in vam !
She’ll fret till her heart breaks, but such things
shall be
While Cornstalks are restless and go for a spree.
“ I’m going to the war, and I don’t know what it’s
But the other chaps are going with the Bush
Contingent men,
And if I should stay behind, there’ll be trouble m
the wind,
For my girl would throw me over when they come
back agen.”
Sydney, Jan., 1900.
HENRY LAWSON.


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op the UNITED STATES.
Financial Position January 1, 1899.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £53,826,927
Increase in Assets during 1898 ... ... ... ... 4,477,706
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 11,918,852
Increase in Surplus during 1898 ... ... ... ... 1,409,857
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 205,657,736
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1898 ... ... 7,498,187
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L. A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C. ;
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELL AR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D'ARCY IRVINE, E. 8.5., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
STEAM BOILERS
*, tfyv - - '■ w
-■ ■ :
.’1
I&s
; -r-'
:
m
'.’* -y ::
'?o'r. f '"'.S'''
•^ f sr;. ■
'-, "' r V .
X <*&■■'%■
v > : * v * -v >- ;•
The Clyde Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Lancashire, Cornish,
Multi tabular
and other types.
To standard sizes, or to
special specifications,
suiting all requirements.
Please state :
HORSE POWER
REQUIRED
and
CLASS OF FUEL
Clyde Works,
Granville.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING YVEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Little Red Riding Hood.”
Royal “ Tess of the D’Urbervilles.”
Lyceum “ It’s Never Too Late to Mend.”
Criterion Rickards’ Co.
Opera House “Rip Van YVinkle.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ The New Barmaid.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra “ Robbery Under Arms.”
Something alleged to be “Rip Van
Winkle ” took place at Sydney Opera House last
Saturday, when that tram-haunted edifice did one
more awakening from its usual silence. It was a
very attenuated “Rip Van Winkle ” —in fact, it
gave the impression of an opera that had just
struggled through a wasting illness, or undergone
some secret sorrow that had reduced its dimensions
considerably. The fact that somebody tried to fill
up the hollows with ditties about the Brier war
made the audience feel just as the opera looked as
if it felt. The scenery was calm and unobtrusive,
and the company had the appearance occasionally
of wanting to hide behind it, especially when one
of its number raced after a particularly high note
and won by a neck—or didn’t. Howard Vernon,
who owns a big, useful kind of voice, makes up
all right as the somewhat gigantic scapegrace whom
the nice girl always prefers, and Alice Howard
Vernon is just that sort of nice girl who prefers the
scapegrace, and after he is dead tells everybody
how good he was, and that he brought
home the money regularly, and was a strict tee-
totaller. It is always a melancholy reflection that
that nice girl has to be killed off before Act 111.
in order that the leading lady may reappear as the
daughter. For the rest, R. E. Watson might be
commended as the Schoolmaster if he could
leave out that ditty about sending the Boers
to a warm, place, and the small child with
the big voice is approved of for her share
in the item, “ These little heads now
golden” (neither of the heads in question are
golden). The co. is a small one, and the half-
dozen or so Blue Dutch ghosts have a remarkable
resemblance to the similar number of variously-
colored gentlemen who compose the population of
Sleepy Hollow. Several people wno are them-
selves in the first act are other people later on,
but as their names are always printed twice over
in the programme, even when they are only them-
selves twenty years later, the list makes a very
good show indeed. On Feb. 10 the co. intends to
produce, for the first time in N.S. Wales, some-
thing in the operatic fairy line, written by Brunton
Stephens and composed by G. B. Allen.
** * *
“Tess” still holds the stage at Sydney
Royal, and the men still anathematise the conduct
of Angel Clare in throwing off his newly-wedded
bride. Every man is indignant when the other
fellow resents his married wife’s unmarried past;
meanwhile he goes on getting quite annoyed, just
as usual, when anything of that sort happens
beneath his own roof-tree. It still remains as
great a mystery as ever how Tess could prefer the
good young man who loves her in fits, and starts to
no particular purpose, to the bad young man who
loves her in bigger fits and starts to the extent of
providing for her and her family. The fact that
Tess sticks to the nominal husband rather than
the real is another proof of the conservative sex’s
inexplicable reverence for the mere marriage cere-
mony. As a French writer puts it, “ Man endures
marriage for the sake of the woman; woman
endures man for the sake of the marriage.” The
average man like Alec. D’Urberville is inclined to
think the man who pays the bill is the most
married of the two ; not the one who talks about
dreams and sunsets and then goes away. This
sordid way of looking at it shocks the pure soul
of his inamorata, and she promptly knifes him—
after letting him pay the bill.
*# # #
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney), Her Majesty’s
nice, pink-cheeked troops continue to make evolu-
tions round the Boers’ stronghold till the blast
from Mr. Wolf warns them to hurry up and come
to business. The Panto, by this time has
sunk deep into the public mind, and the jokes
about the athletic butter, and the milk that re-
quired a lifebelt to keep it from drowning, are still
older friends than they were a few weeks ago.
The school scene, like the grasshopper, has become
a burden. It is too much like the school that
Tommy and Jennie play at, wherein the fun
depends mainly on the use of the switch on little
Johnny. The joke concerning the strawberry
mark on the right shoulder falls rather flat, too, in
these days when even the slavey has discontinued
the missing-heir style of yarn for Marie Corelli
and the holy Sheldon. Carrie Moore’s “ Children
of the Empire ” effusion enjoys but a moderate
success, because Carrie’s voice is more suited to
soft, gentle things, like “Somewhere in the world
there’s a girl that is waiting for you.” This
always strikes a solemn chord—with the married
men especially, as they have the added informa-
tion that the girl in question is waiting behind the
front door, with something heavy for them, if
they stay out to see a man regarding more than
three dogs.
** & *
The play that begins with a coffee stall
and ends with Rule Britannia is drawing to a
well-deserved close at the Sydney Lyceum. Up
to date the funny parts are as sad as usual, and
the tragic items are as full of sparkling humor.
The last scene is especially refreshing because
therein nobody makes any remarks at all. It
passes in dead silence with much paint and glare
and magnificence. Seeing that in the average
melodrama the plot is always the same, and merely
the spectacular portion is different, and that
isn’t always different, and its difference isn’t
always noticeable even when it differs, it seems a
pity that the actors should trouble to say any-
thing either in the last scene or any other
scene. A time may be confidently expected
when the heroine will be nearly thrown off
the bridge or the monument, or the hero
saved at the last minute from the blown-
up ship, without any dialogue at all, be-
cause the audience has heard the whole dia-
logue in a hundred other plays before. Seeing
that the one-time silent pantomime has expanded
into a melodrama, why shouldn’t the melodrama
turn into a pantomime ? Meanwhile, “It is Never
Too Late to Mend ” follows “The Power and the
Glory,” and the convict chipping at the old stone
block will give the coster and the coffee-stall a rest.
** * *
At Sydney Criterion the Caddam Woods
revels would be somewhat improved if Mr. Sayles
didn’t exclaim “All-ryght!” every time the stage-
manager announces a singer’s name. He has been
saying “ All-ryght! ” for several months now.
“The Absent-minded Beggar” is off, and his
place is taken by “The Cunning Sort of Bushy,”
sung by Miss Noni Rickards. “ The Cunning
Sort of Bushy ” seems to have got away with a lot
of the Absent-minded one’s fittings and furniture.
The audience has given up heaving copper
coins at the singer’s eye, and now drops silver
into the tambourines of Fanny Powers and
the Smith Sisters, who come round each
seat like church-collectors to rake it in.
Ludwig Amann, facial artist and impersonator, is
the newest attraction. On Saturday, he announced
that he was about to impersonate Napoleon,
and dived behind his cabinet, and backed out
again with a grey overcoat. Out of the depth of
his cabinet he could be seen seizing a wig, a hat,
and other things. Then he turned round, and
presented a very respectable Napoleon to the audi-
ence. He also did Wellington, Bismarck, Roberts,
Kitchener, the Prince of Wales, Beaconsfield,
Gladstone, Cecil Rhodes, Chamberlain, Kruger,
and Victoria Regina. They were all done
reasonably well, and they were all well received
except Oom Paul; when he arose, in bell topper,
chin fringe and pipe, the audience cursed him.
Mademoiselle Cel inski gives a concert at
Sydney Centenary Hall this (Thursday) evening.
** * *
“The New Barmaid,” which struck Aus
tralia for the first time at Melbourne Royal, last
Saturday, revives all that is saddest in this
country’s recollections of previous musical comedy.
The opening scene is an Anglo-American club, or
pub., where tame young men warble ballads and
talk inferior dialogue concerning the high times
in store for them, and the waiter turns out to be
own brother to a thin comedian, as in “The
French Maid.” Also, the waiter repeats the
ancient business (identified with “ Old Guard ”) of
teaching the new barmaid how to beguile any
poor Adolphus who may call for a drink, and the
sentimental lover (Louis Luscombe) brings his
historic nose of magnitude to bear upon the
heroine’s affections, as though he were a passable
substitute for the late Charles Ryley. Further-
more, Miss Gracie Whiteford invades the club
in the time - worn character of a feminine
good fellow, who is the life and soul of
everything. And the old barmaid, having been
one time bigamously enamoured of the gigantic
Nose, plots against the new barmaid, but the plot
breaks down in the second act, owing partly to
the waiter, who is now an African millionaire in a
plum-colored suit, whereas his brother, the former
capitalist, has become reduced to the necessity of
attending to gents’ horders. Finally, the new
barmaid is found to be a long-lost heiress, or some-
thing, which enables her to marry the baritone
with the colossal features on his face, and then all
the people who have either contributed songs
themselves or helped to make a wild stage uproar
at the conclusion of somebody el e’s “ turn ” are
required to join in the chorus of Gracie White-
ford’s last number on the programme.
* m * *
“The New Barmaid ” betrayed no symp-
toms of enduring success last Saturday. It will
improve, no doubt, as it gets used to itself and is
knocked into shape by the stage-manager, but it
hasn’t much material which would stand a good
hard knock. The “ book ” bristles with local
allusions of a painful nature, and if there be any
points about the leading characters, the points
were blunted on the first night. One of the very
few bright incidents is the reunion of brothers J.
F. Sheridan and Fred Sinclair, when the plum-
colored millionaire gives his thin and fallen rela-
tive a £2OOO-note to buy a shave with. For the
most part, the show seems to go slow when it is
left in the hands of two or three principals ; al o,
when all hands are gathered on tne scene, the fes-
tivity is rarely exciting. A marionette burlesque
by Sinclair and Miss Jessie Williams, especially
the lady, can be singled out for praise, as the daily
papers say. Johnny Sheridan is only remark-
able for appearing as an Irishman instead of an
Irish woman ; nice girls Miss Maud Denny and
Miss Mavis are not cast to advantage as the two
barmaids, and even if they were more effective in
themselves they would all the same fade into
insignificance whenever the nose of their baritone
lover comes to meet them. Mr. Luscombe’s
profile, although not without honor and dignity in
private life, is peculiarly out of place in stage hero
parts. Viewed in conjunction with a flaxen wig
and an amateur-deportment it amounts to an
awful joke.
** * *
The vociferous section of Melbourne pub-
lic which believes in the Alexandra when Dam-
pier is there must have taken the big house by
storm on Saturday night. The gallery was so full
that small boys appeared to be sticking to the
ceiling like flies. Every seat on the ground floor
had its clammy human freight, and the circles re-
served for the plutocrats and the eighteenpenny
middle-classes were in a state of S.R.O. All for
Dampier, who has come back to his old pitch look-
ing uncommonly like the gallant Alfred of 20
years younger. There are sundry sound reasons
why the Alexandra crowd has a warm heart for
Dampier, but probably the first reason is the
actor’s voice. It bitas the house’s hearing as no
other voice can, and keeps the yarn together
when certain other members of the co. are
almost too inaudible for words. “ Robbery Under
Arms” lias gone through half-a-dozen revivals,
more or less, at its dingy birthplace. This revival
is not the best on record, save as regards Dampier’s
rejuvenation, but the narrative contains the usual
amount of Australian horse, and coach, and local
color, and the same old lavish display of innocuous
firearms. Besides, it presents bushmen in conflict
with policemen, who are tantamount to Boers in
an Alexandra way of speaking. Therefore “ Rob-
bery Under Arms ” strikes a topical note of
attachment to the dear Muvverland, and will run
till further notice.
#* * #
The company at Rickarcls’s is the same as
last week, plus the Newsky Family of five braw-
limbed ladies, two men, and a boy. In their
strictly Russian song and dance the Newskys
are an interesting eight. They make music that
has a charm of novelty for us, and their strong,
substantial animation comes as a cool breeze from
the north. Also, their peasant costumes suggest
that the working girl leads a gaudy holiday life in
Moscow. Unfortunately the visitors from Russia
knock a large comer off their foreign interest by
warbling “ Soldiers of the Queen,” which is about
the most un-Russian hymn they could be guilty of.
** * *
“Aletes” on Maud MacCarthy and on
matters generally:—
Accepting Compton’s dictum (13/l/’00), I find Maud
MacCarthy’s playing was artistically satisfying, thus con-
firming a previous suspicion. For Sykes never material-
ised to me except when other performers were abroad.
So our old friend, the personal equation, crops up as
usual. Curious, however, how many people mistake for
coldness what is truly simplicity and refinement. I pre-
sume the mental epidermis is to blame generally, being
insensitive to the pure soft glow of incandescence, per-
meable, perhaps, by nothing colder than a log-fire.
Young as she is, Maud possesses many of the qualities of
the matured artist —dignity, self-control, reserve—chilly
things to the irresponsive. Things, too, wherein
most of our local debutantes are lacking, to
our regretful hurt. If she has a fault, it is
perhaps,j>ver-reverence for the trodden path, distrust of
her own individuality—mark the contrast with Ham-
bourg. Courage will come with years. Her comparative
failure to arouse enthusiasm is intelligible on quite other
grounds. A concert audience, in the mass, values the
merit of a performance rather by the material handled,
than by the way it is handled —which is wise if not just.
The MacCarthy gave wine to palates better accustomed
to tea. Such palates belong to the many.
Apropos of concerts, what a coarse, at times even
brutal, method we have of showing approval. If a fine
poem or picture moves us, we are not called upon to ges-
ticulate with hands and feet, like wooden marionettes,
to certify to the throb that is within. Is music
on a lower plane, or is it, simply and solely,
the sheer force of habit, centuries old, that
necessitates this muscular movement? Personally,
an artistic exposition moves me to silence, the tense
silence of imaginative thought. As often as not, how-
ever, I behave like any other unseemly idiot—which, after
all, 1 fancy is quite rational. The man who writes the
poem, or paints the picture, or weaves the melody, isn’t
there, as a rule. The other man is—actor, orator,
musician—he who interprets what the first man merely
created. He gets all the applause. Personal presence is
everything. The man who is away doesn’t count, which
proves the chain of reasoning is herewith dropped—
the motive power of applause is mostly vanity.
Poor old “ Will Honeycombe,” known all
over Australia for over a quarter of a century’s
quaint and curious moralisings in his little paper,
the Dubbo Dispatch, and out of it, lies stricken
with paralysis, in Dubbo. Real name Morgan.
The Queensland contingenters had a very
busy time in Melbourne, but the most exciting
incident of their stay was not reported. On the
night of the concert at the Exhibition a Carlton
“ lad ” missed his bit of skirt, and found her being
mashed on a seat in the grounds. The masher
was a soldier boy, but the “lad” forgot his
loyalty, and promptly battered his rival over the
eye, and a vigorous action was opened on the spot.
The civilian was a very busy man in a mill, and
was making very favorable progress when the fair-
minded crowd went to the contingenter’s assist-
ance and 14 of them knocked the civilian out. The
unfortunate sat up amongst his ruins, and com-
mented: “ Well, if this ain’t stiff, an’ here’s me
bin singin’ Gor save the bloomin’ Queen orl the
evenin’.”
“ Old Soldier ” tvrites :
Dear Bulletin.— You ask for evidence (8., Feb.
2, p. 18) re the payment by recently-departed N.S.W.
Mounted Rifles of men to shoot and ride for them. Well,
I can produce as evidence one of such substitutes, who is
willing to swear that he averaged 30s. per day in shooting
alone for said warriors during the whole time they were
encamped at Randwick. Better evidence still : Can, if
you come out, show you the same going on amongst the
bushmen. Since writing last, have seenil2o odd alleged
bushmen, who failed in their first shooting test, put
through a second one, 29 passing. One man, who has
passed all tests himself, shot for four of these, getting
them all through. Any of your readers who doubt this
can go out any day the tests are on and see for them-
selves. The press pointed out that it was going on
amongst the Mounted Foot at the time, but, of course,
the press doesn’t mention that the Bushmen are doing it
also—it wouldn’t be patriotic. Also, the riding test is a
farce. The fact of a man being able to hang on
over a 3-foot jump doesn’t prove him a horseman.
File men at a trot past a real horseman all
day, and he’ll pick out every man that can’t ride without
making a mistake. As the test stands now, if a man can
hang on over the jump without getting all over a nag
from his tail to his toe, he passes, whilst a real horseman
may strike a horse that nothing will make jump—and be
rejected. This scribe is watching the case of one volun-
teer with interest. He had shot as a cadet when a
youngster, and never ridden in his life. Still, he scraped
into the last carefully-selected Australian Horse squadron,
and was only spotted and heaved out at the last moment.
He’s now advertised as a Bushman who has passed all
tests. ,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The cabled report that N.S.W. has got down to
the lamentable expedient of borrowing £1,000,000 in
London on Treasury bills for two years at .the very steep
rate of 4 per cent, is a ghastly shock. This brings
N.S.W.’s credit down with a great fall from its former 3
per cent, level. The fact that the Treasury bills
are being offered at £9O 10s. is. another shock.
This is one more example of the current impres-
sion among Australian Governments that the Aus-
tralian investor is an inferior beast and deserves no con-
sideration. The N.S.W. capitalist is offered 3 per cent,
stock at par, and he is buying it up very steadily. But
when the Cow-Shaking Government has 4 per cent,
securities to sell it offers them in London—3 per cent,
is good enough for the local man, but the gorgeous 4 per
cent, is reserved for the Britisher. Australia would joy-
fully have put up £1,000,009 at 4 per cent, and paid in-
come tax on the interest (the British investor pays no
N.S.W. income tax) and saved the stamp duty payable to
the British Government, and the cost of remitting the
interest to London—but the idea of offering At in the
golden opportunity never occurred to anybody. He is
only a low, common Australian.
• • • *
Revenue returns for January, 1900, so far as
available :
Increase as
Revenue for compared with
January, 1900. January, 1899.
New South Wales .. £826,835 £122,957
Queensland .. .. 301,595 61,769
Victoria .. .. 628,885 46,676
Westralia .. .. 242,148 46,591
Tasmania .. .. 92,055 10,815
And so far as the financial year has gone in each province,
also as far as accounts are available, the results are as
follows: —
Increase as
Revenue to compared with
31st January, corresponding
1900. period to
January, 1899.
Queensland (7 months) .. £2,763,269 £319,154
N.S.W. ( „ ).. 5,590,544 209,684
Westralia ( ~ ).. 1,597,090 200,861
Victoria ( „ ).. 4,164,618 60,642
S.A. (6 months).. 1,257,654 44,899
Tasmania (1 month) .. 92,055 10,815
These measures, when reduced to a common
basis, pan out at the following rate per inhabitant per
annum :
Increase of Revenue per
inhabitant per annum.
Westralia .. . £2 0 11
Queensland 12 1
Tasmania ». 14 8
New South Wales . 6 4
South Australia 4 10
Victoria 1 10
Taken all round, this January has been, in a financial
sense, the best month Australia has had for a very long
time.
And yet, with all this glory, there are draw-
backs. The N.S.W. revenue for the seven months of the
financial year that have expired is £209,684 larger than
for the corresponding period of last year, but the expen-
diture has increased by £179,741, so things are not very
much better. And the Cow-Shaking Government has
still to face its big war-bills. At present, with more than
half the financial year gone, expenditure is already
£274,589 more than revenue, which is a very heavy deficit
to be wiped off. And the loan expenditure for January
was £374,435 (£180,462 more than for January, 1899) so
the policy of piling more and more ordinary expenditure
on to loans in order that the ordinary revenue may look
better able, on paper, to stand the rush of military
expenditure is beginning to tell. For the seven months,
loan expenditure has been £1,328,282 —or £180,468 more
than for the corresponding period of last year. At this
rate the year’s loan expenditure will be something like
£2,300,000, which will beat George Reid’s worst record
completely out of sight.
Nothing is known about the expenditure in
Victoria or Tasmania. In Queensland, revenue is now
£442,498 ahead of outgoings. Also, at latest advices, loan
expenditure was going on at the glorious rate of £1,100,000
ayear. And, in YVestralia, Bigjohn still keepsatight hand
on the outgoings so far as ordinary revenue is concerned,
and the deficit is now reduced to somewhere in the vicinity
of £55,000.
* * * •
Attention was drawn to a most amazing state of
things at the recent meeting of the Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co. (Melbourne). Trustees (including trustee
companies) are forbidden to invest trust funds in the
State-guaranteed bonds of the Victorian Credit Foncier
(State Land Bank) unless “where no other form of
investment is specified.” In other words, they are
debarred, except in a very few instances, from investing
trust funds in an absolutely safe Government security.
No wonder the bonds of the Vic. State Land Bank are
difficult of sale, when obstacles are thus deliberately put
in the way of investment.
* • * *
The Commercial Bank of Australia held another
half-yearly meeting last week, and again the wonderful
board dodged giving any information of the least value
about how the wonderful Assets Trust is getting on. The
chairman said, however, that, “ with regard to the old
assets taken over by an Assets Co., the latter had, up to
the present time, met all its obligations out of its own
resources, and had a considerable credit balance in the
bank.” This looks well, but it means less than nothing.
The Assets Co. bolds more than £4,090,000 of the bank’s
assets, and is responsible for more than £3,400,000 of the
bank’s liabilities to depositors. It has paid, up to now,
about £300,000 in interest on these deposits and
has repaid about £200,000 of the principal (with
the assistance of £183,000 generously donated by
the bank). These are the obligations met up to date
so the chairman’s assurance tfet- the Trust has met all its


A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—buyer of —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation witt Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
Mr. J. A. Wallace, the pioneer of the gold-
dredging industry in Australia, holds a long stretch of the
Sandy Creek near Yackandandah and intends installing a
very large electrical plant to operate several dredges. An
order has just been placed with the Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Co., of South Melbourne, to supply high-class com-
pound condensing engines with Corliss valve gear of 400
h.p., together with boilers and fittings>to operate the first
section of the plant. A duplicate plant to this will he
installed later and will work three electric dredges on a
Stretch of about two miles of the creek. Each dredge
will have a capacity of about 150 cubic yards per hour.*
* * * *
Gilfillan and M'Creery, Mining and Metallurgi-
cal Engineers, 434 Collins-street, Melbourne, report on
mines, attend to the flotation of approved properties on
the London market. Complete battery plant and Willey
table for bulk tests. Plans and specifications for all
classes of mining plant.*
% • • *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Svdnev, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
«* British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Jlorsfield Improved National Kock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
* * » »
Norman Godlcin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offeied
must be subject to inspection.*
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c.,of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps,-fhaming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts, forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
* * * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Griniwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a, very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites', price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * *
“ P.M.” : Hainault is shaping the worst of the
favorite W.A. shows. 100,000 shares, 10 head stampers,
it has done but very little to justify the late high price of
scrip, now about 30s. Before all its dead work is dens
and the co. is paying expenses there will be many a mar-
ket flutter like the late one. Scrip dear at 10s., on merit.
* * * *
At nearly all the half-yearly Westralian mining
meetings held in London at the end of Dec. a complaint
of the costliness of management was raised. The enor-
mous directors’ fees and the cost of palatial offices, and
the ruinous British gorgeousness, certainly call for un-
limited cursing. One instance : A small Kalgoorlie show,
'Chaffers Extended ; scrip only a nominal price of about
Is. 6d., costs shareholders £5OOO a year in office manage-
ment. A good deal of distrust of John Forrest and his
“ body servants ” was expressed at some of those meet-
ings. “ Will he further tax the goldfields, and will he
force on a conflict that may accentuate the cry for Separ-
ation in Westralia ? ” were questions asked. At one meet-
ing Forrest’s meat monopoly was compared wi th Kruger’s
■dynamite monopoly, rather to Kruger’s advantage.
A party of four working miners out-back from
Mackay have got a good thing. Whilst prospecting, they
found an old copper-working, and they fossicked round
and got ore averaging 30 per cent. Enquiries for owner
showed that he was drowned 20 years ago, and next of
kin are unknown. The curator of intestate estates won’t
move unless pushed, so the party is meanwhile getting
■out ore that realises £l4 a ton at the nearest seaport.
Average earnings, about £lO a week each, and a man who
digs out copper ore in a Queensland summer deserves it
all.
fsd
f
sd
fsd
"A
mm
YZJ>
wr
m
s v :
Smoke
FOR GENTLEMEN
OF TASTE.
Wholesale Agents—M. RUTTY & CO.,—Sydney.
SLIMES!!
ONLY
Successful
Treatment
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co., London.
All particulars on application to
Hy. Markwald,
It Pitt Street,
Sydney
178 William Street, Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
G. Fish arid Sons, of Bathurst, say : “We have
fourteen of Billett’s Patent Tuyeres working in our smith’s
shop and we are pleased to say they give every satisfac-
tion, saving coal and heating the iron m a shorter space of
time. Write to W. Dewhirst, Broughton Lane, Sydney,
for price list, &c.*
obligations so far with its own money is only an assurance
that the £4,200,000 or so of assets have proved equal to
paying a little over £500,000, They might do that and
yet show a large enough shortage to well-nigh ruin the
Commercial Bank. If the chairman had said that the
revenue derived from the Assets Trust’s properties had
paid the interest on its deposit liabilities the assurance
would have been worth something. The statement that
up to now £4,200,000 or so of assets have proved equal to
paying about £500,000 is a miserably poor joke.
Then being positively and distinctly asked for
information about the Assets Trust the following reply
was forthcoming (Melbourne Age report, 2/2 1900): —
“ The chairman said it was out of order to discuss the
affairs of a company which was a separate thing, and
which this meeting had nothing before it to judge on.
He would, however, say, in answer to Mr. Rouse, that
that gentleman started off by referring to an instance in
which he, the speaker, had said that the directors re-
ceived an additional amount for an asset beyond what
would have been the value three years ago. The assump-
tion was that the assets stood at a valuation, and that the
shareholders should be told how each asset went above or
under. Mr. Rouse had before now been told that never
from the first had a valuation been made of the assets.
They stood on the books at amounts which had no rela-
lation to the amount they were sold at. The directors
declined absolutely to value the assets. It was a question
for the shareholders to decide whether they trusted the
directors. (Hear, hear.) He wished at once to say this,
so as to bring these discussions to a conclusion. The
directors would not comply, and further discussion was
perfectly aimless. He would not allow Mr. Rouse to
further discuss the affairs of the Assets Company. (Hear,
hear.) He could discuss the bank’s balance-sheet if he
liked.
“ Mr. Rouse : * What opportunity have we of discussing
the Assets Company if not now ? ”
“ The Chairman : ‘ I decline to permit you to discuss
the Assets Company at all i ”
The situation can, therefore, be put thus: —
The Assets Trust is about as large as the Commercial
Bank of Australia proper. The bank’s liabilities to the
public are about £4,200,000, and its investments are about
£5,400,000. The Trust’s liabilities to the public are
£3,400,000, and its investments are supposed to be about
£4,200,000.
‘The Assets Trust is, to all intents and purposes, as much
a part of the Bank as the Bank itself. The Bank gets the
surplus, if any. The Bank shareholders are responsible
for every penny of the deficit, if there is any.
The Assets Trust is the only dangerous part of the
Bank. It contains most of the' bad old assets left over
from the boom period—the assets whose unrealisableness
caused the trouble of ’93. It is far more essential to know
that the Trust is getting on all right than that the Bank
is getting on all right.
No statement is apparently ever published to show
whether the Trust’s properties yield enough revenue to pay
the interest on its deposits, or more than enough, or half
enough, or anything else. If, by any chance, the Trust’s
assets were yielding only £20,000 a year, then it might be
fair to assume that they wouldn’t sell just now for any-
thing like a million —in which case there would be a
deficit, on present values, of over £3,000,000, and every
Eenny of the Commercial Bank’s paid-up capital would
e lost unless prices improved. On the other hand, there
is no evidence to show that the Trust isn’t earning
£lOO/100 a year, in which case it would probably be quite
solvent. Only if the Trust is doing well the flat refusal
of information is all the more remarkable.
And the directors of the Commercial Bank flatly refuse
to give any information about a matter which involves
the question whether the Bank’s paid-up capital is intact
or whether it is partly or wholly lost. When they are
asked how much income the Trust’s properties yield they
invariably reply that they refuse to put any valuation on
the principal —which is just as relevant as if they said
they declined to form an opinion as to the whereabouts of
Andrde’s balloon.
They don’t state whether the assets sold up to now
realised the value set against them, or a tenth part of it,
or anything between. Some of them, it seems, realised
much more than they would have done three years ago, but
whether they realised anything like the value set against
them in the Trust’s books isn’t stated.
They refuse to give any reason for this reticence. They
merely say that they decline to furnish the shareholders
with any information worth calling such about £4,000,000
worth of their own property.
And they indignantly inquire if the shareholders have
not confidence in them.
* * # •»
The balance-sheet of the Australian Joint Stock
Bank for the half-year to 31st December, 1899, is some-
what better than the two which immediately preceded it.
It is difficult to say much more than that. The six
months profits are £2912, which compare as follows with
some previous returns :
Profit. Dividend.
June, 1893 .. £12,221 Nil.
December, 1893 .. 51,040 5 per cent. = £22,951
June, 1894 .. 32.083 5 24,869
December, 1894 .. 21,915 4 „ 21,530
June, 1895 .. 24,932 4 22,675
December, 1895 .. 25,825 4 „ 23,354
June, 1896 .. 20,629 Nil.
Loss.
December, 1896 .. £48,200 Nil.
June, 1897 .. 53,507 Nil.
Profit.
December, 1897 .. £1,725 Nil.
June, 1898 .. 3,746 Nil.
December, 1898 .. 266 Nil.
June, 1899 .. 1,358 Nil.
December, 1899 .. 2,912 Nil.
The.profit is at the rate of about 9s. 6d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders funds (capital £1,168,042
and alleged reserve fund, £52,000). Why the capital
remains at this old nominal figure seeing that it is prac-
tically certain, on the evidence of these profits, that the
great bulk of it is lost, and why the pretence of a reserve
fund is kept up when it is practically certain that the fund
never had any real existence, being swallowed up all along
by depreciation, it is difficult to understand, but the
A.J.S. has a tendency to do things this way. On the evi-
dence of the profits, and assuming that a sound bank
should be able to earn at least 2£ per cent, on its real capi-
tal (and it should be able to do more than that) the A.J.S.
needs to write off £1,000,000 to make its bala; o .'-sheet a
true statement of its position. But it never faces the
difficulty, never admits the extent of its losses, never
attempts to vigorously clean up the old mess and start
afresh.
More than three-fourths of the A.J.S. Bank’s
assets consists of the item “Bills discounted, advances,
and all other debts due to the bank at old valuation,
£6,637,986.” And “ old valuation ”is a beautifully elastic
term. Julius Caesar’s 1.0. U. and the paper-money of .Jeff
Davis’s Government were all worth a lot of money “ at old
valuation,” and so were shares in the Federal Bank. A
balance-sheet which doesn’t even profess to give the real
value of the assets is a quaint and curious joke, but the
law and the public tolerate such things in Australia. The
balance-sheet says nothing, and has said nothing for a long
while, about the old reserve-fund, which was set aside to
meet losses. Presumably it has been all absorbed in meet-
ing losses, though there is plenty of evidence that it hasn’t
met nearly all of them. On one point, however, the re-
port is more explicit than it used to be. The institution
has made £88,908 up to date by the repurchase of “ B ”
deposits at a discount, and this is set aside towards
covering losses. During the half-year total deposits have
increased nearly £200,000, despite a considerable reduction
in reconstructed deposits ; and cash and liquid assets
(£1,556,824) have increased by more than half-a-million.
Also there is a large increase in note circulation. What
alteration there is is an alteration for the better. Still it
would be interesting to know when the directors expect
to put their very dilapidated institution straight at the
present rate of progress. In 24 years the bank has
accumulated £10,007 of earnings and made £88,908 by the
repurchase of its deposits at a discount—this towards
writing off losses which certainly appear to be not less
than a million. It will probably earn larger profits in the
future, and it will probably make less by the repurchase of
its deposits, for as its credit gets better its deposits won’t
be obtainable so cheaply. If the institution means to keep
its nominal capital intact, and to write off losses out of
earnings, the process looks like the work of many years.
The A.J.S. Bank seems to love its old inflated valuations.
It has £150,915 available without touching its capital
(alleged reserve-fund, £52,000 ; reserve from re-purchase
of deposits, £88,908 ; and profit balance, £10,007) with
which to write down some at least of the old inflated
values, but it keeps all these paper-reserves standing on
one side of the account, and the inflated assets on the
other, and leaves things as they were.
* * * •
North Coast Steam Navigation Co. (N.S.W.)
reports a profit of £5600 for the half-year ended 31st De-
cember, 1899, as compared with £5286 for previous half,
and pays its 8 per cent, per annum (part of it being called
dividend and part bonus), which absorbs £5250. The
other £350 goes to the reserve for equalisation of divi-
dends. The co. has £131,250 paid-up capital, £16,181 in-
surance reserve, and £9588 reserve for equalisation of
dividends. The one really solemn fact about the concern
is a mortgage of £40,000 on its property, which it is seem-
ingly making no great effort to remove. At least the
mortgage has been there so long that it looks like a very
old friend, and so long as the policy of paying away so
much of the profits in dividends is adhered to, the old
friend will probably remain on deck. A reduction of the
dividend and bonus to 5 per cent., and a steady effort to
remove this weary Dweller on the Wharf, would be much
better for the co. in the long run. The co.’s balance-
sheets, by the way, are a trifle incomprehensible in places.
For insta’nce, at 30th June, ’99, the equalisation of divi-
dend-reserve was £8269. Then £247 was added to it, and
in next balance-sheet it appears at £9238. In the absence
of any revenue and expenditure account, how it got there
is a matter for cheerful and interesting speculation,
though the fact that it has got there is gratifj’ing.
* • * *
The Riverina Co-operative Life Assurance Trust
of Albury (N.S.W.) is an interesting and very promising
gamble in the Tontine business, concerning which Tub
Bulcktin already stated that the only visible draw-
back was the want of a Trustee Co. to hold the money
and be responsible for its repayment to the beneficiaries.
This drawback has now been removed, it having been
arranged that the National Trustees, Executors, and
Agency Co. of Melbourne will have charge of the funds,
and give its reliable guarantee for their appearance when
the time comes to divide the profits.
• * ♦ •
The New York and Brooklyn Tobacco Co.
(Sydney) finished the second year of its existence on 31st
December, 1892. Its brief record is as follows :
Profit. Dividend.
1808 (13 months) £2538 .. 10 per cent. .. £1625
1899 (12 „ ) 1685 .. „ .. 1500
The second vear certainly doesn’t look anything like so
well as the first, still the co. has paid off all preliminary
expenses, £ll9, and has given the manager and secretary
£lOO bonus, and has a credit balance of £879. One item
among the assets, “ Goodwill and Brands, £2000,” is the
often inevitable but always objectionable paper asset
attached to so many enterprises, which requires to be
written off as speedily as possible to put the concern on a
really good basis. If next year’s profits don’t show the
same kind of slump which last year’s did, the co. may
have a good prospect before it. But the slump certainly
looks pretty awful already, for an enterprise only two
years in existence. *
Newcastle Wallsend Coal Co. (Newcastle,
N.S.W.) shows a profit of £7128 for the half-year ended
31st December, 1899, and a dividend at the rate of 15 per
cent, per annum absorbs £7500. Consequently, the
balance at credit of profit and loss is reduced from £1760
to £l3BB. The co. has £lOO,OOO paid-up capital, and
various reserves amounting to more than £50,000. It
reckons, probably with sufficient reason, that the dimi-
nished profits this half-year (though they are still over
14 per cent.) are a mere passing accident, largely attribu-
table to scarcity of tonnage. Anyhow, this co. has done
amazingly well.' It paid 42J per cent, in 1891; for a long
time prior to 1896 it paid 20 per cent, regularly, and since
then the dividend has been 15 per cent.
* * * *
Sydney Harbor Collieries. The London direc-
tors say they are experiencing no trouble in sinking this
great shaft or in dealing with the water ; but they are
having a good deal in raising money, and as the payment
of a large amount of the company’s working capital is
still the subject of litigation, they have under considera-
tion the issue of debentures. It will be a long time before
they raise their first ton of coal, and many things are
likely to happen in the meantime. This is probably the
largest coal-mining enterprise in the world, no expense
being spared in the character of the machinery, so that if
they get coal there is no doubt about their ability to
handle it in a big way.
• • * *
Sydney Stock Exchange. The buying and sell-
ing price 'is generally near the same mark when the mines
are outside the province, and controlled by other people ;
but with N.S.W. stocks there is a great and sometimes
humorous margin—Girilambone, buyer 2s. 6d., seller ss.
6d. ; Great Oobar, 755., 90s. ; Lake George, 55., 11s. ; New
Mount Hope, 55., Bs. 6d. ; Turon Dredging, 305., 40s.
* * * *
The British Australasian (London) again bar-
racks for Booth’s Reward, a mine somewhere in N.S.W.,
concerning the richness of which, according to assays, the
public has been reading for three years. Public is now
wearied of the whole concern, never having had the novelty
of a crushing. This time the ore “ assays loz. 15dwt. to
6oz. to the ton ” ; it is coming from a reef that runs from
12in. to 2ft., and this cable has had a very beneficial effect
on the shares, which investors are advised to closely,
watch. Rats 11
* * * *
Mt. David (N.S.W.): 760 tons for 2270 z. The
new mining-man of Sydney D.T. confirms what the' other
man said about it two years ago. These sayings evoked
much indignation amongst the mining amateurs, who have
since had the pleasure of losing about £50,000 with-
out a redeeming div. It was floated in a mysterious way
—20,000 contributing shares having to carry the burden
of 100,000 paid up. Hope now centred on the sulphide
zone, which has just been reached. The mine has also got
a new manager. Writer would advise the shareholders to
look out for a new mine.
• * * *
Girilambone still making calls. No news of the
sale of the mine in London. Copper output going down,
and manager’s last report doleful : “A flat of quartzite
has thrown the ore to the north-east. It will be followed
whichever way it goes.”
♦ * * *
Cobar Gold Mines: London office intimates
that November return was over 1000 oz., although a com-
plete clean-up had not been made for a month. This, it is
said, left a substantial profit, and the return should have
considerably increased now that the full battery and
cyanide plant are running. What profits really are there
seems to be no means of knowing, until the directors
find it convenient to publish the information.
• * f *
Cobar-Chesney (N.S.W.): First consignment of
100 tons of concentrates, worth about 12 per cent., sent to
Cockle Creek ; expected grade will shortly increase to 15
per cent, when a few additions have been made to plant,
which will run continuously as soon as electric lighting
gear is installed. Slightly better than the average ore
now coming from mine, but it is doubtful whether divi-
dends can be paid without a better equipment; , t
duplication of the present plant is already contemp at .
Provis, the new manager, is greatly impressed ™
mine, especially if it is equipped to enable 300 or 4UU t
a day to be handled. t
Mt. Drysdale (N.S.W.): Still no official in-
formation as to the last consignment of ore. Said to be
31oz. per ton, and that the 125 tons on the road is equally
rich ; also, that the ore, which averages 2ft., is strong
underfoot, is going overhead, and is being followed right
up to the Eldorado boundary. Further alleged that it is
a new thing, altogether distinct from the rich pipe
of ore worked over three years ago and from which about
£50,000 in gold and silver was taken. If this is all true
the present price of shares should soon be paid in divs.,
but the public has long lost faith in the ways of Cobar
managements. Seeing how much is said of their mines
when there is next to nothing to report, it is somewhat
curious that practically nothing is now said of a mine
which is known to have a large quantity of 20oz. ore m
sight.
* • * *
Another W.A. mining magnate, W. Rose, is
said to be exploring the Blayney district for a good cop-
per show.
* • • *
By a fluke motion at a scanty half-yearly
meeting the shareholders of the By ell Tharsis Co. raised
the directors’ fees from £3OO to £5OO a year. In this the
Tharsis only copied the Mt. Lyell scrip holders who raised
their directors’ fees without previous notice to £3500 a
year. Verily Australian scrippers are dropping into the
bad Bull habit of paying ornamental directors too much.
« * • •
Hercules, Tasmania: Been sending consign-
ments of ore to the Tasmanian Smelting Works and else-
where. Now decided to erect its own simple smelting
plants near the mine, leaving its complex ore for future
operations. * * •
Anchor tin mine, Tasmania. This is probably
the lowest grade tin mine working in Australasia. It has
100 head of stamps driven by water power. The forma-
tion lying at some hundred feet above the battery is a
decomposed granite, easily broken. The value of the ore
contents is said to be only 7s. 2d. per ton, and this is mined
and crushed at a profit of nearly one half. The co. is
erecting its own smelting works at the water’s edge at St.
Helens, and is about to spend upwards of £20,000 m
bringing a supplementary water supply so as to ensure
continuous running of the 100-head stamp mill, more than
half of which has been recently hung up for lack of the
necessary supply.
* • * •
Great Mt. Lyell: Name altogether too big for
the mine. Driving several tunnels in chloride schist, and
sinking a shaft in which are occasional signs of copper.
Last report issued in London—“ Formation shows good
improvement, but owing to the epidemic of influenza,
hands have been short, and the work much delayed.
Any mine that takes upon itself such a name deserves
such a fate.
• * * •
Mt. Lyell Blocks. Another London co. This
mine has got a large body of good grade ore in its mam
tunnel, and the reserves have been largely increased by
recent developments. Making arrangements to send ore
to the Mt. Lyell smelters. A very sensible thing to do,
considering the awful cost of doing your own smelting in
such a country.
* * * *
Mt. Bischoff, Tas. : Grade of ore continues to
fall, but mine still keeping up its div. record. The
resignation of Kaiser as mining manager alarmed a
number of the sleepy island shareholders. The chairman
assures them that there are many years’ work still in
sight, and the mighty Kaiser is still going to act as
consulting engineer. It would be Of some interest to
shareholders, and more to tin-ore sellers, to know the
amount of money realised yearly by this co. in ore pur-
chases. Some say it is upwards of £40,000. Anyhow, it
is time the charges were brought down, or a reduction
enforced by competition. Bischoff has too long had a
monopoly of this well-paying business, and the victims or
its charges have been numerous and long-suffering.
Dear Bulletin.— Your hard-headed old mining’
expert who is evidently at his best when he has not seen
the property he reports on, makes some mistakes, a few
misstatemeilts, and a few plain lies in his paragraph on
Cftulagoe, and I hereby contradict the lot. The railway
will not take three years nor two years nor 18 months to-
complete. The lodes on many of the properties of the
Chillagoe Railway and Mines have been proved to be per-
manent ; notably on the Griffith and Boomerang. And
as to the value of the lodes, the Magazine face-veins, and
intervening country taken on open cut would go well over
12 per cent., nearer 15 in fact. On the P.P.A. crosscuts'
N. and S. from the bottom of No. 2 shaft, show the lode
to be over 90ft. wide, and 80ft. of that is high grade car-
bonate. A bulk sampling of the P.P.A. lode 50ft. from
the surface, and for a width of 45ft. gave 10 per cent,
copper, 12oz. silver and 2dwt. gold. And so with the
Queenslander. And so with lease 38 and the Fortunata.
Your hard-headed mining expert is soft-headed.—Main-
shaft.
* * * *
Mt. Usher : First mine in the Mt. Morgan dis-
trict, outside the Mount itself, to pay a dividend. Three
of 6d. each declared last year, and a new plant going up'
in the hope of paying some more.
* * * *
Victoria Gold Mining Association, Charters
Towers. The long and brilliant career of this mine now
drawing to a close. The directors say that unless some-
thing new is soon discovered the mine cannot be expected 1
to last much longer. From 1888 to 1899 it crushed
62,116 tons for a total yield of" 134,3710 z. gold, and paid
in dividends £252,600, while it only called up £3900. Andi
it was a good mine under another name before that.
* * * *
“F.” : On what possible or impossible princi-
ple does the London market estimate the paper value of
Westralian mines ? For instance, on 22nd January, Asso-
ciated shares were valued on the market at £6. Even if
the very good yield of 1899 keeps up, and the dividends dm
ditto, this means that buyers may expect to get back
their money in 15 years without interest. Or, consider
Great Boulder Proprietary shares at 365. 6d. If the divi-
dends keep up to last year’s level present buyers may ex-
pect to get back their money without interest in 14 years.
Great Boulder Main Reef, at the same day’s prices,' held
out the golden prospect that, provided there is no falling-
off in dividends from the 1899 level, buyers will get back
their money in about 20 years, also without interest.
Think of the sanguine nature of the individual who pins;
his trust to any mine paying regular and handsome divi-
dends for 14 or 15 or 20 years merely to get back the price
he paid for shares—if he is to get 3 per cent, interest the:
mine needs to boom for several years longer than that !
* * * *
Hewitson’s report on L. V. Consols should be as
interesting as Roberts’ review of Buller and Methuen’s
campaign. Previous management left enough of the rich
chute to serve as an excuse for the vague and hackneyed
verdict—“ Mine as rich as ever.” They’re now whispering
that same chute is likely to be dropped on at the 400 ft.,
and lower level. Of course it may be, but only the pick:
proves possibilities. Whatever they may get at 400 ft.
what they are getting is—well, good road-metal. The-
fiasco might have been foreseen any time the last four
months. The sulphide-plant muddle is the approximate
cause, and it could no more be hidden than the 30,0000 z.
monthly return could be maintained. Kaufmann’s bear
raid had its birth in early knowledge of sulphide trouble,
and having provided his informants with good billets he
lost no time in turning his knowledge to account.
Professions of directorial ignorance of the rig are-
lauo-hed to scorn on the field. Boulder’s rich:
chute could also have turned out 3P,0000z. a month,
but didn’t—for reasons. Though not so rich as-
the Consols chute by a few ounces to the ton, it is longer.
Whispered here that Kalgoorlie mine managers this time
stole a march on manipulating directors. Latter had
ordered a boom at all costs, and insisted upon the
managers helping to make it in any possible way.
Reply, in some cases, was to oversell the mines two or three
times over. Managers knew what picking eyes out meant
and acted accordingly, but it is quite possible that one or
two mines have been oversold to such an extent that some
over-zealous bears may get a frightful squeeze shortly.
Doubtful whether the managers acted together in bear-
ing. Unquestionably some of them beared individually
and have profited largely. So look out for changes soon.
Some of the local brokers got a nasty knock, and
the whereabouts of several are unknown.
* * * *
Lake View Consols : News from the field says
manager Callahan left ’Frisco on the 24th instant for the
mine. W. J. Collins has concluded his examination;
his report has been cabled to London, and, as anticipated,
“ result is being watched with great interest.” It seems
hardly possible for Collins to have made an exhaustive
examination of such a mine as the Lake View in the time
he has been there. “It is expected that last month s
return will show an increase of at least lOOOoz.” llow
consoling, in face of the awful fact that the previous
month’s return showed a falling-off of considerably over
lOjOOOoz.
* * * *
Ivanhoe, Horseshoe, and South Extended amal-
gamation held over for time being. Meanwhile, Ivanhoe
scrip said to have been picked up by a ring at compara-
tively low prices, and that the enlargement of the South
Extended into 140,000 shares will make the amalgamation
deal easier when time is ripe.
» * * »
Brookman Bros’. Boulder worked at a loss of
£25. r >l for the year, according to the howl from the London
meeting. Record of co. : registered Sept., ’95 ; shares,
175,000; total tons treated, 4797, yielding 405(i0z.,
average per ton, Itklwts. 21grs.
Boulder Half-Mile South, or the “ Mud-Hole,’’
again reporting good things to come. Co. has been a
long time doing this, and is sure to continue doing it a
long time yet, if the calls are paid. This show gives no
present hope of paying expenses, and the scrip would be
better value for Is. than 7s. Closely running Half-Mile is
Hannan's Block 45, both in price and disappointment—
beat in"- it as to the former. Look at this wretched
record" Registered, Sep., 1896. 220,000 shares of £1
each, all paid up; area, 18 acres ; total tons treated in
three vears, 2GCi \ yield, 4500 z. gold \ not enough to pay
one-third exs. ; scrip dear at *2s. instead of Bs.
♦ * * •
Boulder Central, another small Kalgoorlie shot?.
Great efforts made lately to put scrip up; 60,000 shares,
now about ss. Total yield since registration of co., 4oz. of
gold from 40 tons.
® * * * *
The Insurance News, London, writes
“The whole position of the Colonial Mutual, as revealed
by the latest report, is calculated to give the utmost satis-
faction to the members.”*
* * • *
A revival appears to be in store for the Mt.
Wills district of Victoria. The Maude and Homeward
Bound United Mine is developing well ; so much so that
the management has decided to adopt crushing and con-
centrating appliances of its own. Their mill will comprise
ten head of stamps, classifiers and “Luhrig” Vanners
(supplied through W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, the
general agents for “ Luhrig ” Appliances). The mineral-
ised stone is rich ; recent concentrates averaging as high
as soz. gold per ton.*


DAVID JONES & COMPANY.
MERGERS, HATTERS, and GENERAL OUTFITTERS. *
SOFT FRAME FELT HAT.
7/6.
STRAW HATS.
From 2/9, 3/6.
IMPORTERS OF «
HJQII-OiiADE ENGLISH.& AMERICAN
FELT HATS, NECK WEAR,
UMBRELLAS, etc., etc.
PARIS HAT.
21
HARD FELT HAT.
8/6, 10/6.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
George & Barrack
Streets,
SYDNEY.
SPION KOP
WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN
Sin
B
m
- ABANDONED!
Had one of
HARRINGTON’S
SNAP-SHOT
CAMERAS
Been used to depict the details of its surroundings.
A 255. instrument will give a brilliant picture of a group
of mountains, Seascape, Interior, or Portrait. Instru-
ments at various prices,
from ss. to £5O.
HARRINGTON Sz CO ltd
PHOTOGRAPHIC MERCHANTS nn tt- ~ '
Queensland Branch— M ln B‘ Street, SYDNEY.
34 Queen Street, Brisbane. Melbourne Agents-
Agents throughout the Colonies™ C ° - ’ 179 C ° llmS Street '
SOCIETY
Private W. B. M‘Pherson, with the
Maoriland contingent at Naauwpoort :
The awful tales of their infernal deceit and cunning
make everyone promise them no quarter.
Then he goes on:—
A section (four men) of the 6th Inniskilling Dragoons
Were out on patrol work a few days ago, and saw a few
men on top of a kopje. They started to ride up. The
Boers had in the meantime hidden among the rocks. The
Dragoons got within 20 yards before the Boers fired on
them. One got four bullets through him—two in the
body and one in each arm. He fell, and his comrades
thought he was dead, and rode away at a gallop. The
Boers came down and bandaged his wounds, gave him
water, and carried him to the roadside, where he was
CANINE.
FREDDY (whose father is a dog-fancier) : “ Ma, do speak to brother George; he says I must he
a mongrel, ’cause I ain’t got a black roof to me mouth!”
found and brought to the field hospital, where he is doing
well.
A good many letters from the seat of war are
built that. way. Apparently everyone has heard
from parties unknown of the terrible cruelties of
the Taal-speakers, and almost everyone finds them
in practice a kindly lot of armed Samaritans.
Private M'Pherson’s loud resolve to give no
quarter to the men who gave their own coats and
blankets to their captured enemies at Nikolson’s
Nek. and themselves froze on the open mountain
side, lsjnt cresting, from a Christian point of view.
Shiels, the Victorian Treasurer, who has
exceptional opportunities of knowing, says he does
not think there is any man now in Victoria, who
is, correctly speaking, a millionaire. The province
is to be congratulated on the fact.
* * * *
The recent Schnavel tragedy at Bumberry
(N.S.W.) was one of those purposeless horrors
with a streak of madness in it, which is so
characteristic of the silent, loony plains of inland
Australia. Nearly the whole of the families
thereabouts were related to the Schnavels and to
each other. Much inter-marriage, combined with
drought, and monotony, and the habit of leaning
against things and looking at nothing, impart a
certain brooding craziness to the character of the
out-back agriculturist in many of the older settle-
ments, and it breaks out every now and then in
grotesque ways. Schnavel was 19 and his wife 22.
It is alleged that he threatened her life even before
marriage, which was evidently the crazy instinct
breaking out. In Australia, a man kills a woman
for one of two reasons—either because she wouldn’t
marry him or because she did. The peace of the
Schnavel family is alleged to have broken down sud-
denly at last because he wanted a coat and vest
washed, and his wife said the proceeding would
spoil them, but offered to sponge and brush them
instead. After darkly brooding over this wrong,
he appears to. have gone away and borrowed an old
rifle, loaded it with nails and sundries, and re-
turned home looking for vengeance. Then, so the
story goes, he pursued the wretched woman in and
out and round about their two-roomed wooden
humpy till she was almost dead with exhaustion,
and finished up by perforating her with
a gun - load of nails and screws. It
was a purely Australian tragedy—the agri-
cultural land that is met with in long-settled
places where all the families have married and
intermarried over and over again. If a few agri-
cultural Contingenters from old farming districts
bring back with them a Boer wife apiece it will
be a blessed interruption to the dismal process
whereby Smith’s son marries Jones’s daughter and
Jones’s son marries Smith’s daughter, and their
children marry more Joneses and Smiths, and
their grandchildren do the same, till droves of
more or less loony Joneses and Smiths lean and
ponder in a silent fashion against every fence in
the district.
* • * *
“Australian”: To a t’othersider Maori-
land Supreme Court has the free-and-easy style of
a club smoking-room. The Judge lolls on the
bench, an open tin of cachous by his hand, appar-
ently interested in anything but the case. Groups
°f remittance men hang about round the dock
audibly discussing their own concerns, which are
mostly in a bad way. The Judge’s Associate holds
a levee of his friends under his principal’s nose,
and the usual big cop is wholly absent. A court,
however Supreme, is unfinished and undecorated
without the presence of the broguey one who
wakes up occasionally to shout “Soilence” when
nobody is saying anything.
NOT ENOUGH TO GO ROUND.
WHISKERS: “Do you think Smith has got any
money? ”
SHAVE: “I don’t see how he can; his wife seems
to get so much !”
A Sydney daily paper reports that there
has recently been a great increase in the attend-
ance at Sydney Zoo. Doubtless a lot of the city-
bred men in the Bush Contingent have been going
out there to see what on earth a kangaroo looks
like.
• * » *
Mrs. Fraser, the Melbourne lady who shot
her husband in the head so very long ago that
people can hardly remember now which Biblical
character she fired at, was brought up last week
at St. Kilda police-court. The delay was caused
by the slow recovery of Dr. Fraser. Considering
the ironmongery in his head the fact that he re-
covered at all is not a little remarkable. In the
interval, the pretty, excitable lady with the mass of
beautiful brown hair has been out on bail, harass-
ing the Government with offers to go and be a
spy on the Boers, telling amazing stories to the
astonished young man on the Herald, and, it
was reported, nursing her battered but reconciled
husband. It was understood on all sides that the
reconciliation was something really beautiful, that
Dr. Fraser had forgiven his wife for shooting him,
that she had forgiven him for not keeping his
head out of the way, and that everybody was in a
heavenly frame of mind with a margin of saintly
resignation round it. The police-court proceed-
ings broke up this vision. Apparently, the recon-
ciliation has gone to pieces. Dr. Fraser implored
the court not to bail his wife any more; he said
he was afraid of his life while she was loose. He
also alleged that she called at the hospital where
he was recovering, and shouted at him, or shouted
generally around the premises, till he lost the
sight of one eye through the relapse that followed.
It was also set forth that, when he refused
to live with her again, she threatened to
offer up their child as Abraham offered up Isaac
or something like it —or rather as Abraham didn’t
do it but was going to. The doctor stated in
evidence that his wife was “the most hysterical
woman he ever struck,” at which point her lawyer
chipped in sharply, “ Then you have struck her?”
The doctor said he had—in self-defence ; but the
lawyer’s way of putting it left him in the attitude
of a man who always struck a hysterical woman
when he met her, even if they hadn’t been intro-
duced. In the end a loudly-sobbing defendant
vas removed without bail.
In British communities
only does the woman-cyclist
enjoy a free hand (or, rather,
foot). In Russia she is not
allowed to wheel at all with-
out an Imperial permit.
In France hubby’s written
permission is necessary before
she can join a cycling club,
and in Germany she has to
submit to a preliminary ex-
amination before the local
policeman before she is
allowed to run over the casual
passer-by. This explains why
the female wheeler is decreas-
ing in the British Empire,
and increasing elsewhere.
The best way to encourage
Woman is to discourage her.” l
» ♦
“ Islander Was lately-
talking to a Tas. bush-
policeman, when he men-
tioned that it was about
time So-and-so’s sly-grog
shanty was copped. Told
him he’d taken his time
before moving in the matter.
“Oh,” returned the “cop,”
“I must give ’em time to
earn their fine.” A week
or so afterwards the owner
of the shanty was fined £3O,
and under Tas. law the
informer got half, which he
shared with the policeman
who “laid him on.” No
policeman _ in Tassy - land
captures his sly-groggist un-
til he has “earned his fine.” He is an
asset, and it is bad policy to disturb your
v asset before it is ripe.
• * * *
The much-execrated Greek gypsies are
still roaming Victoria devouring the public’s poul-
try and falling back on dog on slack days. But
of late they have taken to a new industry. After
camping on the outskirts of Fitzroy for quite a
long time, the tribe was just about moving on
when a debt-collector made the chief a flattering
offer. Very stylish families, since the days of
the land bubble, have learned a trick of being
“not at home” when the collector calls, so the
gypsy chief was coached up in the rudiments of
debt-collecting, and followed by three of his male
compeers, several females, a number of multi-
tinted infants—all in tatters—and eight dogs, he
approached a large house with the little bill.
“ Not at home ” and a ’aughty stare had no effect
on the Romany, who proudly camped in the road
and waylaid everyone who passed in and out of
the house, demanding the bill promiscuously.
The visiting clergyman and a doctor were among
those to whom he and the three friends and the
women and tattered children and the eight dogs
clamored for payment. In two hours and twenty
minutes the gypsy had the money, which the col-
lector, who was on the watch, recovered from him
with some little difficulty. All hope of recovering
a bad debt is apparently not lost while the
Romany remains. Time is of no value to him,
neither is dignity—as the house-dweller under-
stands it—and he will sit like an exiled king at
the front gate for three days with his tribe around
him, trying to collect Is. 6d. with a patience com-
pared to which Job’s was a nervous wreck.
ANSWERING HIS OWN QUESTION.
INDIGNANT FATER: “ Did you ever see anything
like that hoy of mine? ”
For a fortnight or more Adelaide papers
every day printed a column or two of names and
descriptions of persons who had volunteered for
the Bushmen’s Contingent. Nearly all of them
were “good horsemen and experienced bushmen.”
bisters who never suspected their city-bred
brothers of these accomplishments woke to find
their families famous. But the thing was easily
explained. Adelaide has two distinguishing
features —its wooded park lands, quarter of a mile
wide, surrounding the city; and its awful horse-
trams. Many of the 1 ‘ good horsemen ” were
merely persons who habitually rode in the horse-
tram, and got accustomed to horses through con-
stantly seeing these animals through the front
window, and they knew the bush by reason of fre-
quent wanderings with their best girls in the
wooded park. Even the proposed leader of the S.
A. Bush Contingent has for 12 out of his 35 years
been a city clerk.
AT PARTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The joys of town that others sing,
I know not, neither care to find.
For me, fresh air, a happy mind,
A book or two—
Tried friends and true—
A maid towards me well-inclined—
For simple joys like these I pine,
And thou for comfort, pipe of mine.
A brief farewell to work in town—
Old town, where all my years are spent,
To part awhile I’m well content:
Soon—very soon—far from thy strife
And turmoil and thy strenuous life.
Long days of deep content I’ll spend
And murmur only when they end.
Sydney.
L. R. MACLEOD.
FROM BARMAIDS’ LIPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From barmaids’ lips how swiftly flies,
Between our “nips,”
The silvery laughter and the lie 3
From barmaids’ lips !
Ah 1 when I drink to Zo’s bright eyes,
In luscious sips,
I court the laughter and the lies—
From barmaids’ lips.
For, as she makes her quaint replies
I know in Life’s dark well she dips,
Whence come the laughter and the lies
From barmaids’ lips 1
MILKY WHITE.


CAWARRA WINES.
H. J. UNDEMAN
Has Removed to
QUEEN VICTORIA MARKETS,
SYDNEY. (York-street Entrance.)
INSPECTION INVITED.
H. J. Lindeman
Market Cellars.
3VIx-s. MA.OLXTR.CA.KT’S
BOOK#:
THIRD EDITION NOW READY. Price, 3s. 6tl.
EDWARDS, DUNI.OP Sc. CO.
ALL BOOKSELLERS.
AGENTS.
_ A . _A— _ A— r-W-r *-A
Ware imitators,
ZETZ-SPA WATER.
Watch the bottle, and object unless you get
ZETZ. The Queen of Natural Waters. Long
life and happiness in ZETZ.*
Bracing:!
Refreshing: 9 .
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
Condy’s Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The effect is magical.
beware OF COLONIAL '“JTATIONS. „
INSIST ON BUYING CONPY S FLUI —;
The following name ami address should be
at foot of. label
CONDY & MITCHELL, 65, GOSWELL ROAD, LONDON, ENGLAND
Medical Science asserts
I that
LIFEBUOY
| DISINFECTANT SOAP
wilf'effectually destroy
\ the germs that produce
infectious diseases.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/ per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane Q’land.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID'S Patent lCapri Air-Chamber HEL
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each. •
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLF, Si SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Only once in his political life did George
Turner try to be sentimental and artistic, and he
made a bad failure of it. At Federal referen-
dum time he departed into the realms of
poetic frill, and promised that every elector
who voted on that great occasion would
receive a soul-inspiring certificate to
keep the founding of the new nation
green in his memory, so that it
would blossom gloriously like some-
thing or other, and be a what-you-
may-call-it; and every elector
was exhorted to have high and
noble thoughts when he
looked at the memento, and
not to let it fall into the
jam, and so on. When
a plain man is laboring
at dragging poetry up-
hill he is a sad spec-
tacle, but George Tur-
ner tried his best to
be sentimental about
that card. And he
was as sentimental as
a tax-collector or a
gas-meter man. Six
months have passed
since then, and the
certificates which were
to gush forth as a spon-
taneous offering aren’t
ready yet Hot, cross
officials are still arguing
about the design, and
everybody concerned is
sick of the subject. No-
body cares whether he re-
ceives the thing or not —if
it is ever delivered, the baby
will ge.t it to play with and
will promptly make him-
self sick by licking off the
coloring. The expense
is considerable. Most
of the designs are
tawdry and yellow.
It was originally
proihised that the
heads of the six Pre-
miers would be on it,
and now there is a row over
the inclusion or non-inclu-
sion of the anti-Federal For-
rest. Altogether it has be-
come a small but persistent
worry, and if Premier M'Lean
would drop it all in the ash-heap
the country would feel glad, oo
would the postman, who will be
a beast of burden for weeks
delivering the wretched thing if
it ever comes off.
* * *
It seems that the salaries
of gaol-warders in Victoria
were retrenched after the
Boom, and have not yet
been restored to their
original figures. Probably
the worst effects of that
sinful retrenchment have
fallen upon the prison-
ers. Warders should
be fat, well-paid men
of musical tendencies.
- Think of the felonious
hearts that might be
•softened by a warder
singing “My Pretty
Jane ” or “ The Old Turn-
key ” in the prison corridor—to his own ac-
companiment. Many a prisoner who hadn’t
wept for years, would probably cry through the
keyhole—“ Leave off singing, and we’ll be good.”
* * * *
A George-street (Sydney) tattooer, who
displays in his shop window weird pictures of the
emblems he brands into the human skin, tattooed
the upper arms of a pair of lovers lately with a
vow of fidelity running into ten words. The
legend covered the whole of the upper arm. Then
the male subject sailed for Boerland with the
“ WHEN THE EMPIRE CALLS."
second contingent, and should he fall into the
hands of the untutored enemy he will probably be
taken for a private dispatch and put to a great
deal of trouble by their efforts to decipher him.
PSYCHOLOGY IN THE SYDNEY DOMAIN.
DICK DOSSER (ecstatically) : “Say, Bill, did yer
ever ’ave a sorter over-masterin’ presenterment
that some’ow someone tuas a-goin’ to arst yer
ter ’ave a drink? ”
A man writes this par :
A remarkable femirfine peculiarity at Bronte Beach
(Sydney) where the mixed bathers gather and gambol in
the summer sunlight, is the soiled feet of the grown girls,
mature spinsters and matrons.
The smaller feminine fry reveal
white and clean extremities.
There is scarcely an exception
to this rule. A long dress
appears to be a guarantee of
dusty, dark feet, and he who
takes an interest in unstock-
inged nymphs (a brace of bare
legs have an irresistible fasci-
nation for almost every man,
bald-headed or otherwise) is
impressed thereby. Even the
regular feminine bather at
Bronte has feet no whiter than
those of the casual miss or
madam who paddles by the
sea. The explanation is pro-
bably the shoe and the skirt.
The skirt gathers up the
dust and shovels it casually
into the shoes, and the shoes
carry it along. 1 have an
impression that the sandalled
feet and bare ankles of the olden
Greek girl couldn’t have been fair
to look upon after she had been out
for a few hours wiping up Athens or Thebes with her
trailing draperies, not could the tail of her garment have
been a wholesome object.
* * » *
Adelaide Health Board, in view of plague
possibilities, solemnly warned citizens that when-
ever they came across a dead rat the animal should
be brought under the notice of the nearest police-
man and the corpse conveyed to the Health
Department. A certain humor attached to the
idea of calling the attention of such a very large
object to such a very small one, and the citizens
entered into the spirit of the thing. It became
quite common in Adelaide to see a procession of
three (one policeman, one private citizen, a
one rat) lighting out for the Health office,
the policeman looking very angry an
the rat very decomposed. The board present y
had to draw attention to the fact that
only fresh rats were wanted —that there was no
need to dig up the rodent that died three months
before the plague was heard of, and deposit it in
the street, and then call on the police to have 1
removed and fumigated. Such conduct, said the
Board, was excess of zeal. Also, the calling °t the
attention of the force to stuffed, embalmed, salted
or kippered rats, also artificial rats made of wood,
leather, iron or india-rubber was uncalled-tor
levity. And now a new kind of boiled rat with
onion in it has been invented which makes the
force even madder than it was before.
* * * *
One night recently a man called round at
the Sydney residence of Judge Docker and rang t e
bell man ordinary sort of way. lhe door was
opened by Miss Docker. The shadowy figure
outside spoke in a thick voice and enquired ten-
derly if the Judge was at home (the Judge has a
lot of friends who think tenderly of him, including
John Norton). The young lady replied that the
esteemed one was not at home, whereupon the
voice made remarks to the effect that the dis-
penser of justice had done him a lot of harm at one
time and another, and fired a revolver, with no
results worth mentioning. This is the first occa-
sion within the memory of the oldest inhabitant
of Sydney town when a man has fired a re ™ver
at or otherwise tried to slay a woman without
being in love with her, or suffering from blighted
affection. It is alleged that the accused had been
drinking “rum and beer mixed’ —which would
account for many things.
* * * *
Adelaide let herself go in a prodigal
fashion when her mounted contingent left, and
in the evening looked as though she thought
herself a devil of a fellow. The shade tem-
perature that day was lOftdeg., and rt felt
lOdeg. worse in the streets; so W.0.1.u.
principles were locked up in the cup-
board. When the first contingent left
Beer was still a Sinful Thing; about the
most experienced man in the contingent;
was dropped out because he had folded too
much of her to his chest. But, with the
mounted contingent, the rule was to drink
to “Thempire” as often as possible ; and,
on the grand triumphal march through t le
city, it was quite a common thing to see
a trooper with his head thrown back
showing an admiring throng how he could
empty a bottle at two draughts —and a
few didn’t want two. Next day, ( the papers
praised the soldierly bearing 6f
but it will take a long course of repentance lr
the cold ashes under the grate before Ade-
laide gets her hat and her temperance
principles quite straight again.
A voice from a little town on the far end
of a Queensland railway line:
Everything in this tired country gets ridden to death.
This village sent out two volunteers lor the continent
to-dav. Neither of them is physically fit, and wouia
not pass medical examination, but they can neariy alway
tell a horse from a cow. And yet there isn t a perfectly
sober man in the town to-night, and lffe
eight fights, and the baker’s dog has been foii life
through the butcher driving over it while tearing up and
down the street with a Union Jack s
and the chemist has been denounced as disloyal by
telegram to Brisbane because he thought that Kru o ei
should only be shot when captured, whereas more ad-
vanced spirits held that he should be put in a cage at the
Zoo, and then hanged, and after uhat scalped in two
places and imprisoned for life. Also, a special editio
the local paper is to be got out, and one woman is very
ill through being trodden on in the crush at the station,
when our two volunteers were being seen ott.
• * *
“ S.S.” : The absence of the usual
gambling flutter in connection with the Melb.
A.N.A. festival had a marked effect on the
attendance this year. The absence of the push
was especially noticeable. Hitherto the lad and
what he describes as his bit o’ skirt have been a
conspicuous element at the Natives shivoo, but
for want of the art union and the usual chance ot
winning a wooden cottage in the suburbs they
stayed away and the gathering lost two-thirds or
its attractiveness in their absence. Ine clannish-
ness of the push used to be an interesting study at
these fetes.. It always monopolised the most out-
of-the-way corner of the big building, and danced
dolefully throughout the day and night, refreshing
casually with weak, teetotal squashes and mild
confectionery. The “peb.” paid his shilling,
behaved decently, and catered for his own sad
amusement, but evidently the gamble was the
initial draw, and without it he would as soon trot
his accordeon and his girl “ darn the bye. Ihe
A.N.A., if it has sense, will bid for the attentions
of the push next year with a decent prize for the
best pair of dancers in a larrikin hop, judges to be
drawn from the ranks of the M.O. s at push
“assemblies.” The larrikin takes his joys miser-
ably, but still they are joys to him, and if they are
blighted he will go and be happily miserable
somewhere else.
* * * *
The agricultural shows are spreading along
the N.S.W. South-coast again, and it is very
painful to hear about the same old bull, the same
big water-melon, the same lady-rider winning
every time. Why, oh why ! doesn’t some other
champion melon, or bull, or female-rider come
along, and give us a rest! Show-goers admit it
would be far better to have one big display, when
the suffering public would be called upon to view
that same bottle of home-made jam and the same
bull once a year. All the same, it will not be, for
every little tin-pot place wants its show—such as
it is—chiefly in order that business people, pubs.,
and the like may participate in the annual grab.
Writer has seen ’em all so far; and, with the ex-
ception of ah occasional extra bull or showman
with a monkey, there is not a bit of difference
same old thing a whole lot of times. ;
Adelaide’s very naicest enthusiastically
gave up many scapegraces to S. Australia s-
second Contingent. An unusual number of well-
known families were represented in the hundred.
Way, C.J. and Lieut.-G-ov., being childless, cbd
the next best thing he could —sent one of his wife s
boys. With this youngster is one of the like-
minded sons of the Chief’s brother, Dr. Way,
chief among the anti-Kingstonian doctors during
the Hospital rumpus. Attorney-General Gordon
is represented among the-troopers by a son ;
Major Castine, for many years the prOud holder of
the jawbone record in S. A. Assembly, also has a
son in the ranks; and the Newlands, Gosses,
Rowells, Stocks, Hendersons, and Aldridges are
all represented.
* * * # .V
In certain of "the American States any
lawless persons who have a few private scores
to pay off, and are afraid to do it on their
individual own, form a vigilance committee.
Vigilance committees have become notorious
by reason of certain atrocities such as burning
negroes alive without trial, etc. lh ie y have
a vigilance committee in Moonta, S.A;, and
the other day it started out from the local post
office with an effigy in a trap, a model band, and
THE WRONG ORDER.
MRS. HARDFACE: “ Bad luck to yer, this isn’t My
leg — it’s Mrs. Murphy’s, next door.”
some mounted caricatures of British soldiers, and
paraded through the town. Five or six thousand
people (according to the local paper) joined the
procession, and the whole hideous display marched
to the residence of a man who, it is said, isn t
quite sure about the justice of the present war.
There a gallows was erected and patriotic speeches
given by a member of Parliament and the president
of the Miners’ Association. Other temporary
lunatics sang songs and gave recitations, including
the inevitable “A. M. Beggar,” and then the man
who didn’t quite believe in the war was con-
demned to death and hung. After the effigy had
hung sufficiently, a local parson (so the newspaper
alleges) disgraced his cloth by reading the burial
service over it before it was burnt. If the state-
ment is true it would seem that the said reverend
is a person with a taste for coarse blasphemy
which would do credit to a larrikin push ; and if
it isn’t true the preacher should have a good libel
action against the paper which thus represented
him as playing the cheerful ox in public along
with the local rowdies.
* * * *.
“Banjo” Paterson, writing from the
British camp at Arundel, mentions casually that
one of the regulars found “ asleep on watch ”
side the camp was sentenced to, two years hard
labor, but “ was very nearly being shot.” War. is
a wakeful business. The men go to divine service
on Sundays with a loaded rifle m one hand and a
Bible in the other, and the parson likens them to
the wise virgins who kept their lamps, trimmed
in readiness for the bridegroom’s coming. The
Boer is understood to be the person they are
waiting to receive.
THE CONTRACTOR.
They say that man is made by God.
No doubt the tale is true enough ;
But I’ve been told—the thought is old—
Old Nick supplied Him with the stuff !
TREB.
The famous Charles War-ren,
He marched ten thousand men,
To the stony top
Of a Boer-lined kop,
But they soon came down again.
And when they were up they were shof,
And when they were down they were not ;
And whether they knew what they meant to do
Is. a question asked in vain.


The Event of the Month!
Hjark Fog’s Fair
Simplest—Most Durable—Best
m
ITICHT^S"
ff\UNNINC
MACHINES
Write tor our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
r : .
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St-, Brisbane.
There’s an Anglican Church at Fern Tree
(Hobart) called St. Raphael’s, but it celebrates
only one “ Feast ”in the year. This is a “Straw-
berry Feast,” which is celebrated with great pomp
and no devotion every January. St. Raphael's is
easily identified. It has a “ strawberry-mark
all over it. It was built from the sale of straw-
berries, and is painted strawberry-red from the
rooster on the tower to the threshold at the door.
Man’s happiness depends largely upon the
attractiveness and amiability of Woman. A
woman to be very amiable must be well dressed
and know it. To achieve this noble purpose it is
essential that she wear P.D. corsets. It can thus
be logically deduced that the happiness of Man,
or a good deal of it, radiates from the graceful
outlines of the P.D. aforesaid.*
All the principal ironmongers, or, at least, those
that are “ up-to-date,” are now carrying stock of the
Albatross Lamp Wick.” If anyone tells you they are no
better than ordinary wicks, you may be sure he does not
know what he is talking about or is greedy and does not
want to lose the immense profit on the old'wick.*
PUBLIC
NOTICE.
0^
The
Infallible
Exterminator of Bedroom Insects.
is now obtainable from all Chemists and Grocers,
at Is. per bottle.
Wholesale : ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd. ; all
Wholesale Grocers, and the Agents, 150 The
Strand.
GLOiE TEAS have E^uai ’
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 6, 1900.
My Deak Myee,—
Sir Francis and Lady Hope—May Yohe, you
know, the music-hall divinity who married Sir
Francis and lost him his dollars in conse-
quence—have been staying in Sydney the last
fortnight without anyone knowing. They
kept their visit extremely dark, going to the
Australia for half-an-hour, and then retiring to
the quieter (and cheaper) Metropole. Every night
they have been seen at the tneatres, but few
recognised them. On Saturday they were out at
the cricket match and again escaped notice,
though many wondered who the smart woman
was in navy voile with an audacious scarlet bow
on the left shoulder.
I saw May Yohe in the street to-day. Not very
tall, but very graceful and snappy-looking, with
an air about her that could not be overlooked. She
has coal-black hair, round, black Japanese-looking
eyes, round cheeks, and a very lively manner.
She was trailing a lovely string-colored lace frock
along, with masses of frills about the feet, and
wore a little turned-up cream hat with a touch of
violet. Sir Francis was with her —a big, fair,
green-looking young Englishman. They report
themselves travelling for their health, and are
going into Queensland next week, but really they
both look as smart, jolly, and blooming as possible.
I wonder Sydney didn’t find them out.
For Sydney doesn’t often miss sensations. It
made one out of the sort of triumphal tour of a
beautiful widow down Pitt - street last week.
People gathered in groups as she came along. As
far as I could gather, the vital point of all the
curiosity lay in finally settling the question—
would she wear “weeds.” A big black hat
dressed with black feathers, a black silk blouse
and black voile skirt lifted the load off Sydney’s
shoulders.
Speaking of sensations. A painful shock to
many peoole last week was the strange suicide of
“Tony West,” a boy of 22, studying law. He
was well known in society; despite his youth he
had for years been everywhere, accompanying his
mother, Mrs. Cartwright-Ashe, to everything,
from an afternoon-call to a race-meeting. In
fact, his devotion to his mother was a byeword in
Sydney. He was in the best of spirits, health,
and finances. His suicide is inexplicable to every-
one. He gave a dinner to some friends on Mon-
day and several times during the evening made
the remark that this night would be the last time
they would see him for a long while. Somehow
nobody took any notice at the time. Next day
his death was announced.
Edith Crane is playing nightly now in “ Tess,”
and the house is larger accordingly. Certainly,
she barks her way with much difficulty at times,
a tearing cough following on almost every laugh,
and I am wondering how she will manage
“ Trilby,” where there is so much laughing to be
done. By the way, the accents in “Tess” —
where do they all come from? Julia Merton’s
brogue is brogue; the milkmaids washed-out milk-
tin voices make poor attempts at “baint ’e and-
some.” Hawtrey’s “Sapt” tones are always un-
accommodating. It is a blessed relief to find
Tess, Angel, and Alec leaving dialect alone, even
though they air two American voices and a
London one.
By the way, Tyrone Power, an extremely clever
actor, and stage-manager at the Royal, lately
expressed himself flabbergasted at the quick way in
which an Australian girl gets hold of a part. A
young actress was given the leading lady’s heavy
lines m the morning, and went on without a slip
at night, and Mr. Power remarked that very few
American women could have done that. Are Aus-
tralian girls going to get a reputation for fastness
at last ?
Such discussions over the morals of Tess go on
sometimes in the d.c. that it seems there really are
people who go to a play for a lesson. What sort
of people are they ! In a word, people who want
a thing “ put before them.” Real life is too spread
and vasty. The play is the thing ; the play
gathers up a little bunch of moral lessons, and puts
it straight in the hand so that anyone can hold it;
and the artificial bunoh has been brought to much
perfection lately.
And so, nightly, you may glean inestimable bits
from suburban rate-payers. The black-satin lady
thinks the play is very rough on man and rightly.
The gentleman in pumps has his answer : “ But
Tess gets hanged.” The black-satin lady is
silenced. The gentleman in pumps scores until
the black-satin lady hisses an inspiration at him—
“ But Alec is killed, and Angel loses his wife,”
and the gentleman in pumps is knocked over for
the second. Then he jumps up triumphantly.
“Don’t that show the woman doesn’t pay the
piper any more than the man.”
I am beginning to look forward to the time
when nobody will look for anything in a play but
the legitimate qualities of a good play. When you
come to think of it, a play is a very risky thing to
take a moral lesson from. So much depends on so
many things. On the hero’s liver, and the heroine’s
feet, and the villain’s laugh, and the property man’s
comprehension of how much cold-tea will make
the villain drunk (it upsets you when the villain
reels after half-a-glass), aud the window that is
open below your right ear in the d.c., and the
woman in front of you with her hair-net pinned
over her back-hair crooked —all these have so
much to do with the way a play hits you that
there seems too much lottery about the drama as a
thing to catch ethics in.
The Rev. George Walters had a few words to
say about Tess last Sunday, and he said them with
vigor, flinging a clerical curse or two at that
“loathsome, one-quarter man, three-quarter cad,
Angel Clare.” The reverend one finished up by
requesting all good women to shun the matrimonial
advances of men whose characters are not up to
the standard set for themselves. He gave as his
reason that “the bad man had lost his delicacy of
thought, and could not respect a good woman.”
Wherein he erred. It takes a bad man to appre-
ciate a good woman. The good man sees nothing
in his feminine counterpart. Having never
known darkness, he cannot realise light.
New music continues to be loudly patriotic.
This is a great time for the man with a tune in his
head. He has only to set it to some words about
us being children of the empire and he is quite
sure of being able to give it away at any rate,
which isn’t always the case with one’s own com-
positions, mind you.
I have before me a new “Absent-Minded
Beggar ” song, the music by Mr. Albert Kaye,
who enjoys the reputation of being the youngest
organist in- Brisbane. His music is catchy when
it gets hold of you, and the words are the same
old words, although I don’t know why
that second verse is printed ; nobody begs by it.
Then the “Loyal Hearts Waltz,” by M. g!
Crichton (Paling and Co.), a tuneful valse of the
soft-pedal order; and “The Australian Contin-
gent Waltz,” by Gertrude O’Connor Fitz-Patrick,
only a little less deficient in originality than
its title. This is dedicated to John See, whose
portrait with a button-hole adorns a comer;
but not even the brightest button-hole would’
induce me to dedicate a waltz to a member
of Parliament. One might as well dedicate
an anthem to a butterfly, or a polka to a church-
warden. The last of this bunch is “The Heroes
of the Empire,” by Alfred Somers and Ludwig
Schliebner (Paling and Co.) The words include
everything incidental to heroes, and the music is
several pegs above some of the music that calls
itself patriotic.
By the way, some small children got taken very
bad lately with the desire to be patriots. In fact,
they went round from house to house about Bondi,
and begged for the Cause with little silvery voices.
It was quite idyllic until someone saw the babes
going into lollie-shops, indulging in riotous
pennorths of stickjaw at the expense of the
nation. Evidently begging is catching, some-
times.
Even the good old “ Rip Van Winkle,” which
rose at the Opera House on Saturday, was not
sacred from the common onslaught. Two patriotic
songs crept in, one very Tivolian in manner, the
other distributed free to the house with an advt.
about somebody’s boots looming large on the cover.
Good old Howard Vernon played Rip in fair
curls and a miraculously happy expression, con-
sidering how cruelly Miss Alice Howard Vernon
was casting flat notes under his nose.
Miss Maud Hewson’s fair pleasant face and
sweet singing voice were Vernon’s chief support.
But the trail of amateur theatricals was strong in
most parts of the production. Particularly on the
girls in trousers, who struggled with a desire to run
away and the even more fatal failing of stooping
over to hide their legs from a callous house. A
Miss Lilian de Vere, in officer’s regimentals and
long boots, made a nice-looking youth. But the
Rhine fay, in white skirts and large-size white
woollen bootees, didn’t account for Howard
Vernon’s awestruck admiration, and the Catskill
fome was too much of a small boy hopping. But
expect the performance improved mightily
afterwards, as it is still running.
News of Florence Schmidt at last. I hear on
good authority that she has got an engagement at
La Scala. The Steffa-nis are coming back to Sydney
soon. Up till quite lately Florence Continued
to be Steffani’s pupil, but 1 heard whispers some
time ago that she was breaking or had broken from
her old master, who wanted to bring her out as a
pure Australian product. So lam afraid that the
time hasn’t quite come vet when the Australian
hall-mark is good for anything but sheep.
A rumor of great grumbling comes from the
Bushmen’s Contingent It seems that the major-
ity of the Bushies arrived in Sydney with only a
few shillings in their pockets, expecting to be put
on pay as soon as they had passed their tests.
Some hitch somewhere. So far they have been
unable to draw any money, and many of them
haven’t the price of a tram ticket about them to-
day. The Bushmen’s Fund, in the hands of Mr.
Randal Carey, has not been administered ; the
military pay-master is unable to shell out. The
only thing left to some of the Bushies to draw on
is language, which, unfortunately, doesn’t often fail
a man in an emergency.
There is much indignation down at Dawes Point
just now, and much disgust is felt that such a nice
good man as So-and-So should actually be haled
off to the Quarantine. “Him have the plague.
Why, he’s a gentleman, Mr. So-and-So is, a
thorough gentleman,” as if the plague were a
species of ill-breeding of which no nice man would
ever be guilty. Still all people that intend to
take the plague, or to be suspected of taking it,
had better hurry up, as now are the good days for
the suspected ones. Heard that a lady-help who
inadvertently put her nose into an infected house
and was thereupon dragged off to durance vile,
claimed, besides board and lodging, £1 a week as
compensation for loss of wages. The authority
evidently did not know much about the position
of the average substitute for Mary Jane, for he
paid the amount without a qualm, by which the
L.H. makes 13s. Gd. profit weekly. A little while
and the State may have to close its purse-strings
somewhat tighter.
“ The stage will be arranged as an Australian
bush camp, m which will appear Australia’s star,
Celinski!” Bashful Celinski, advertising her
concert for the Bushman’s Fund that comes off at
Centenary Hall, this Thursday night.
A tragedy! The Evening Snooze lately
drowsed out a full account of a wedding ceremony
which afterwards turned out to be the base inven-
tion of an enemy. The Snooze proffered polite
apologies when the mistake was pointed out. But
a week later the same paper had another apology to
make. The base informer had described howcharm-
ingly Mr. Blank had sung “Remember Me No
More,” and Mr. Blank was unaccountably angry
over the nice things that were said about him.
So the Snooze made public apologies to Mr.
Blank, and announced to an expectant world that
he had never sung “ Remember Me No More ” at
a wedding that never existed. “Remember Me
No More” as the wedding song, points to the hand
of a disappointed rival in that dark, uncomely
jest. Ask Sherlock Holmes.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
, “ Lady Brassey spent two days at Frankston
with the Maddens the week before departing
hence. The ladylike Hindlip had his last junket
at Mr. and Mrs. Tom Fairbairn’s Western home-
stead, where they said only “ Au-revoir,” and not
“Good-baye,” having followed the great Dropper-
off and his party to England last week.
“ That Bulletin story of Lady Brassey and the
Jack Tars on horseback is perfectly true, except
that the heroine was the tint Lady Brassey, and
the sailors, members of the Sunbeam crew. First
time Lord Brassey visited Rockhampton in his
yacht, he convoyed his then liege lady and a
detachment of blue jackets by train to Springsure,
whence they took horse to an opal mine on Rain-
worth station. On the road, her ladyship first
laughed immoderately, then lost her temper
at the sight of her winded escort, its baggy pants
hitching higher and higher, and ever so much
brawny leg bared to the breeze. She called a
halt, and ordered Jack to pull up his socks and
Mat to haul down his pants; but two minutes
after she had passed the word ‘ Trot! ’ the spec-
tacle was just as absurd as ever. In the end, she
made every man Jack of them tear his big,
starched white handkerchief in two, and with
each half bind a floppy ‘ pant ’ to his ankle.
“Thanks to Brassey thrift and Beauchamp
piety, smart Southerners of to-day break the
monotony of otherwise undiluted worldliness, by
splashes of devout dissipation. Owners of nice
grounds gather their friends together for open-air
Sabbath gallivantings, and after dinner or
substantial high-tea lias been disposed of, the
assembly turns its eyes up and its mouth-corners
down and its thoughts inward, and sings hymns
till supper-time. Uncle Tom, a past-master at
psalms and spiritual songs, got much glee out of
this phase of half-and-half recreation, and a while
ago, when Beauchamp the Beautiful was here-
abouts, he, too, took kindly to the blend. ‘ Your
Sundays are delightful ! ’ said he to a local belle,
famous for her snowy throat, sanctified on that
particular occasion by a small black cross, sus-
pended from a narrow necklet.
“A municipal record of the Brassey munifi-
cence. When Smaleome M'Eacharn was sworn-
in as Mayor, the councillors, according to custom,
took the magnate in tow to Government House.
After the ceremony. His Ex. hesitated, glanced in-
quiringly at the City Fathers, then ponderously
drawled, ‘ Ah, gentlemen ; perhaps—aw—you
would—a w—like—to —come —and—see—aw—my
pictures ? ’ And that’s all they did see. The hot
and thirsty council feasted its eyes on Uncle’s in-
ferior art-gallery.
“The story goes that a brush occurred at a
recent military dinner given in Srnellbourne’s most
swaggah boarding-house. After the wine and
chestnuts had passed round, somebody swung up
to a popular officer (against whom ho bore a
grudge) and insulted him. The professional fire-
eater told him summarily and simply to ‘shut up.’
Then the civilian pelted more verbal mud at the
warrior off duty, until his face became the color of
the flushed summer tomato. ‘The uniform ties
my hands, and you know it,’ burst forth
his Nibs, ‘ but, by Heaven ! if you say another
word I’ll smash your skull in.’ The other
word icas said, and the next minute the fury with
the north-wind head was wiping the floor with the
bloated aristocrat. Then Authority stepped in
and hostilities were suspended. Next day the
officer stood to arms before Authority. After
wading through a heap of evidence, the Depart-
ment ruled that the civilian got his desserts, and
that the floor probably needed wiping in any case.
“ The resourcefulness of the Melbourne feminine
mind was severely tested in its efforts to evade the
rules and regulations which forbade it clinging to
the departing troops. Still, the troops wanted to
be clung to and gave all the assistance in their
power. Two pretty society women got on the
pier by working a luncheon on the adjacent mail-
boat. Then they turned up at the gangway of the
Euryalus just as the contingent was going aboard.
‘Good-bye,’ said the prettier of the two—and she
is very pretty—lifting dew-laden brown eyes to
one tall warrior. ‘Good-bye. and—’ her mouth was
suddenly stopped. One of the rank and file, a man
of prompt action, stepped briskly forward, kissed
her, and as briskly stepped on. ‘The impudent
wretch ! ’ exclaimed her friend—who hadn’t been
kissed—indignantly. ‘ If he had offered me such
an insult I’d—’ ‘No, you wouldn’t,’ sobbed
Brown Eyes, her sweet little nose buried in her
handkerchief. ‘ And he’s not an impudent wretch
either! I’d let them all kiss me, every one of
them, if they wanted- to, the dear, fat Colonel
included.’
“In Adelaide, the other week, there were 60
nurses volunteering for six opportunities to get
sent out to South Africa. And the task of choos-
ing one nurse from every ten was left to two doc-
tore. What joy for that little selection com-
mittee !
, night last was a damp one for the
M.C.O. concert-couples who went forth into
the outer darkness to nestle on the grass. Love
laughs at chills, but there were a few impression-
able darlings who cried over the damp effects the
next morning. The M.C.C. moonlight concert is
the favorite rendezvous of a smart set who start
off with the ostensible purpose of listening to a
fiery programme of martial airs and war-songs,
and rush ‘to arms’ in the darkness as if to
Britain’s mighty call at the very first blast of the
trombone. And it only costs sixpence for ad-
mission.
“ Mr. Frank Lyons, who lately married a
Sydney belle, is a great favorite in Bananaland.
Nowadays he practises as a lawyer in Burketown,
away up North, on the rim of Nebuchadnezzar’s
furnace, but in Brisbane and Central Queensland
Ins popularity dates back to the days when he was
a big blonde schoolboy, bubbling over with in-
herited Irish fun. His uncle, ‘ old Bob Lyons,’
of Rockhampton, also a solicitor, is remembered
as a genial paterfamilias, whose one-horse buggy
in the olden times never looked big enough forTts
load of large, laughing, blue-eyed boys and girls.
Frank Lyons, the bridegroom of to-day, lost his
father early in life, and his only sister went into
a convent.
Talking of convents, ’tis said that even in this
democratic country impecunious Catholic young
ladies have been known to take the veil with the
approval of their kinsfolk, chiefly to avoid com-
promising their clan and lowering themselves by
infra di/j. scrambles for the necessary crust. One
hears that the crust-struggle is especially severe
for daughters of the ‘ True Faith,’ because in Aus-
tralia comparatively few country families of their
own creed are in a position to employ a governess,
which narrows one important avenue of employ-
ment right away. Then, to make matters worse,
educated Irish parents, as a rule, bring up a
squeamish, shielded type of girl not built for busi-
ness racket. So if a refined R.C. spinster is not
rich sho can t do better, even from a mercenary
point of view, than ‘ die to the world.’
Springsure Toby,’ happening by, put his own
construction on the anklets, and, to the day of his
death, gave his version to every new-comer.
‘ My word ; snake bad longa Sunbeam,’ he would
say. ‘ You know brother b'longa Lady Brassey ?
One, two, tix million snake been run up that
pfella leg! ’
“Poor Victor Jones, of Rockhampton, shot
through the heart in South Africa, was the first
Australian contingenter to fall in the prasent
war. The lamented Bananalander in question,
whether bom in Rockhampton or not, has lived
there, I’m told, nearly all his life. His Rock-
hampton kinsfolk have always been enthusiastic
Wesleyans, capable choir-singers and untiring
Sunday-school teachers. Victor’s eldest sister
married a sea-captain and left the sultry, inland
calm of Rockhampton ‘ to sail the seas for many a
day.’
“Melbourne had a painful experience with a
poisoned picnic on A.Is.A. day. A Burnley Sun-
day-school went up the river for its annual bun
outbreak, and having consumed many stale sand-
wiches the whole picnic suddenly felt a strange in-
ward premonition, and then fell unanimously and
fiendishly ill. There was no doctor adjacent, and
the distracted few who retained control over them-
selves were invested with responsibility that turned
the superintendent’s whiskers grey in a single hour.
At length the distressed army was drafted into a
special, and then a whole train-load of invalids
was carried home. Ptomaines bred in sandwiches
a day old were the cause of all this woe. Nobody
died, but fully half a Sunday-school came very
near to it-
\ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL.


HALF-SICK Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed,
PEOPLE. lazy, and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly ; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAM’S HEPATIC
*-**>-• SULPHUR PILLS
55 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
fs
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, &c.
Before taking your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmania or
elsewhere, write for “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
IS IN THE DRINKING
AND
IT CAN BE TESTED FREE
THEREFORE WRITE TO US
For Dainty Sample Tin (a postcard will do) which will be sent
post free, if when writing you name this Journal.
Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Cocoa is sold by Grocers, Chemists and Stores.
Address: Dr. Tibbies’ Yi-Cocoa, Limited, Sydney.
The Fountain of Youth,
ZETZ-SPA WATER.
Nothing to equal it.
See that you get ZETZ.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVEE BROS. Ltd., Sydney.
Lor m re i •
Compound Syrup) of llypophosph ifrs.
. . Beware, of Imitations . .
Solu Agent for N.S.W. :
0. E. Newman, King-st., Sydney.
Aymard’s Milk Sterilisers
to arrive shortly.
A Revolution in Sterilisers.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Queensland ex-Premier Dawson —it is
al m°st a pity to tie a tag on a man for so small
and brief an offence—is seriously unwell, and
thinks of entering a Sydney hospital.
The Rev. F. W. Wray (the Wray of light),
special rain-maker with the second Vic. con-
tingent, gets £ll a week for his services. How
often the men of peace are men of gold pieces !
<4 S.”: Have frequently remarked David
Age Syme’s strong resemblance to Carlyle. In a
late Idler is a caricature of the Sage of Chelsea,
landing upon which nine out of every ten Melb.
readers exclaim : “By Jove! David Syme.”
Trooper Cox, who died in Adelaide hos-
pital on his way to the Boer war, was a son of
jr‘ wo ’ M.L.C. Cox senior held a seat in the
first N.S.W. Assembly under responsible Govern-
ment, and has been a member of the Leg. Council
for nearly forty years.
Bailiff Withers, of Sydney District Court,
now starting on a holiday, was one of the 100
soldiers drafted from Melbourne to the Maori war
in 1860. He took part in the storming of Pake-
takmno. Of the 100 men only five escaped being
killed or wounded during their five years’ service.
Tasmania's Governor, Gormanston, has
been attacked by partial paralysis, stated to be
caused by over exertion in climbing a steamer’s
side during a recent fishing excursion. Gor-
manston gets into trouble going up, and Brassey
gets into trouble coming down, and the world is
full of trouble.
General Clery, now in South Africa, seems
a remarkable type of soldier, judging by the
character sketches in an Australian daily. It is
alleged he goes into action with his moustache
waxed, has a crease ironed down the front of his
pants every morning, and is accompanied on active
service by his French cook.
Henniker Heaton (Australia’s own Hen-
niker) has, it is said, purchased a grave space
adjoining the cathedral, at Canterbury (England),
and devises that he shall be buried there. The
dust of bygone N.S.W. Governor Gipps, and of
Dr. W. G. Broughton, first C.E. Bishop of
Sydney, also reposes thereabouts.
CORPORAL MORANT (“The Breaker”).
Second S.A. Contingent.
For sheer cussedness the fate of William
Bird, of Auckland (M.L.), is bad to beat. Bird
was a cripple of 75. His house was burned on
Sunday, Jan. 21st, and though carried out three
times by his daughter, the obstinate old cripple
went back again each time, trying to rescue a deal
table, until he was burnt to a cinder. Yet the
furniture was insured for £lOO, and if the old man
had rescued the table it could only have benefited
the insurance co. at best.
Carington was the last N.S.W. Governor
who stuck to his post for the full term of his
appointment. Duff died; Jersey and Hampden
fave it up when about halfway through ; and now
leauchamp is said to be tiring visibly in the first
lap. Loftus, Hercules Robinson, and, with the
exception of Belmore, their predecessors back to
early times took the full five years, and some of
them one or two over. Fitzroy played vice-
regality for nine years, and the useful Macquarie
for eleven.
Jimmy Edwards, the veteran Yic. sculler
and leading boat-builder of the province, now
wears a moustache, and is a “dead-ring” for
Cecil Rhodes. Felix Levien, M.L.A. for Barwon,
was previously the Melb. man most like Rhodes,
but Edwards is photographic in his resemblance.
Levien comes of a family of legislators, and
at one time three Leviens were simultaneously
members in Yic., N.S.W., and S.A. Parliaments.
In private life, he is the Onion King of Australia,
and boasts that he has brought tears to more homes
than Cecil Rhodes ever did.
This war in South Africa is beginning to
sift out the bull-pups from the terriers among the
big dogs of the sub-continent. When it is all
over people will know who really are the ,
strong men. So far there appear to be
about three only Kruger, Reitz, and
Rhodes possibly Cronje makes, four.
Schreiner’s reputation was just beginning
to look imposing, but has punctured
badly ; and Hofmeyr of the Bond, locally
known among anti-Dutchers as the
“Mole,” has practically disappeared.
Steyn seems to be a mere tool in the
hands of the astute Reitz —the thin bitter
man, who finds it hard work to live on
account of incipient paralysis. Milner is
not South African, and it is hard to say if his
strength is that of his own backbone or Cham-
berlain’s. According to one set of South Afri-
can papers, Milner said he was going to smash
Afrikanderism, and use a Bond Ministry to do
it with ; and r chreiner tenders his resignation
regularly thro times per week, and Milner just
as often refus it. Still, if Schreiner went on
strike and refu. (1 to act as. Premier, it is not very
clear what Milner could do, except swear. Hie
other papers represent Schreiner as a strong,
silent man, who works hard in his depart-
ment to keep down racial hatreds and to
soothe antagonists. But Schreiner doesn’t
look like a strong man, anyhow. The
three above-mentioned tower over all the
rest.
N.S.W. ex-Judge Forbes, who now,
when past 80, is roused to struggle publicly
in martial verse, was more or less of a bard
during many years of his early life. His
family always esteemed his poetic gems.
Marquis of Queensberry —the man where
the boxing rules came from—threw up his earthly
sponge last week. Australia dimly remembers the
noble Marquis as a devoted attendant on a certain
lady member of its first Gaiety co. and as the
referee in a Melb. glove-fight between Slavin and
Burke. One way and another Queensberry con-
trived to be a highly disrespectable person, but his
somewhat “outcast” condition served a useful
social purpose by making it easy for him to bring
the Oscar Wilde scandal to a head. Queensberry’s
open blackguarding of the fat sensualist, resulting
in an action for libel, followed by Wilde’s down-
fall, was a’fully bad form, doncherknow, neverthe-
less humanity'felt a little better for it. Most of
the acts that do good in this world are a’fully bad
form.
The Saturday Review, in 1898, wrote
this of Redvers Buller :
Sir Redvers Buller has fought in most of our wars from
China to'Canada, and from the Cape to the Soudan, and
has proved himself a good administrator as well as a good
fighter, not a mere martinet, who regards men only as
fighting machines, invented for the purpose of obeying
orders. During the worst of the Land League troubles in
Ireland, Buller was sent over to impart the necessary
amount of military rigour into the civil administration,
and to see that no nonsense about famine and distress was
allowed to interfere with the supreme necessity of collect-
ing rents, but he soon showed that he possessed a heart as
well as a head, and he gravely offended the Irish officers
by telling them that Law and Order would not be built
up in Erin any more than in the land of the Pharaohs, by
injustice and extortion. They soon recalled him, but his
name is remembered in wild Kerry as that of a just and
strong man.
The Duke of Teck was about the most
popular of the petty German princes who have
ever lived on the British taxpayer and made peri-
odical compositions with their creditors. He got
a genial reception when he came to England
because he was a very good-looking husband for
Princess Mary, of Cambridge, and inasmuch as
cousin Mary was understood to have been doomed
to a long spinsterhood by her (alleged) jealous
Gracious Queen, the crowd thought that a hand-
some fellow a few years younger than herself
would be in the nature of reasonable compensation.
Subsequently Teck struck another chord of public
sympathy by running away with a newer girl for
a while, and then, of late years, he had the brokers
in and was compelled to sell the furniture. No
other German princelet in England has been so
practically human as the Duke of York’s late
father-in-law.
Drake’s pitiable decline and fall from being
the leader of some kind of a democratic Opposi-
tion to the high degradation of being a Minister in
the Queensland Boodle Cabinet has made things
awkward for Drake’s weekly paper, Progress.
It now pats the boodle Cabinet on the back ; only
two months ago it was patting it on the head with
a large club. Two months ago Progress said that
the Boer war was wholly unjust, and Queensland’s
share in it could only be excused through the
necessity for the Empire hanging together. That
view had also to be abandoned as part of the price
of Drake’s portfolio, and now Progress talks the
usual dreary slush about the sinfulness of the
Kruger crowd in not granting the franchise to
aliens (a thing which neither Britain nor any other
country dreams of doing) and moans about Boer
“corruption.” Think of a paper whose boss has
just swallowed all his principles and joined the
most corrupt political crowd in Australia, being
shocked at anybody’s corruption.
A DELICATE SENSE OF TOUCH.
PA: “ That Johnnie of yours hasn't sense to
appreciate a good thing when he sees it.
MARY: “ Oh, pa, you should see how he appreciates
me! ”
Some few years ago the supporters of a
certain Q. Liberal politician (lately defected) laid
great stress on the fact that he wore “the white
flower of.a blameless life.” In recognition whereof
many of his supporters sported a white ribbon
during the electoral campaign. “What’s that
■ for ? ” writer asked one gentleman who bore the
badge of purity, also a decided odour of long
beers. “Tha’sh for our man!” responded the
drunken elector—“ White flower—blamelesh wife.
Never get drunk any more. Hooray ! ’
Disraeli comes out shockingly in the
newly -issued Memoirs of Peel, from papers
hitherto withheld. How
magnificent was the gener-
osity of Peel, in refraining
from the production of
Dizzy’s letter, craving for
office, backed up by an in-
effably stupid note from
Mrs. Disraeli, reminding
Peel that her former hus-
band, Wyndham Lewis,
had wasted £40,000 in cor-
ruption to secure a Tory
victory. One can imagine
Dizzy, the sneak, chuckling
to himself, with “ Ha, Ha !
He has destroyed it.” It
further transpires that Peel
wished to include Disraeli
in his Ministry, but Stan-
ley, afterwards Lord Derby,
prevented him. Yet it was
as the ally of Stanley that Dis-
raeli attacked Peel over the
Com Law business. In every
way, we have the great-souled
man and the mean. Twenty years
ago, a Liberal M.P. said to a Tory
one “Why do you support that
scoundrel Disraeli in preference to a
statesman like Gladstone?” Tory: “We
prefer our scoundrel to your lunatic.”
G. H. Kingswell, lately of Coolgardie,
where his journalistic troubles kept the court busy
for some time, has spent nine months in China,
mainly for the Yangtse Mining Corporation ; and,
like most other representatives of .T. Bull conces-
sionaries, he is not over-well satisfied. They find
the heathen Chinee’s mining regulations peculiar ;
among them is one providing for Chinese mine-
management, and another runs that one-half at
least of the shares in a Chinese mine must be con-
trolled by Chinese. Of course quite disinterested
persons are busy explaining to the Chow that
these “absurd regulations” prevent “the devel-
opment of the country ” —which is just what a
Chinese explained to a Queensland warden once
when the latter ordered him off a new mining field.
A world-weary miner on the West Coast
of Maoriland, having determined to end the night-
mare of life, made a few final arrangements in
order that the parties who discovered his body
should not get a sudden shook and be put to too
much inconvenience- He hung a nicely-printed
placard on the door with the information that he
was dead, and that the readers would discover a
stretcher in the shed, which _ implement he had
made for the purpose of removing nis body to the
nearest place where an inquest could be held.
Then he went in and solved the great problem.
Considerate to others even in death, and such con-
sideration was ever the true hall-mark of a gentle-
man.
The late Parkes was the most vigorous and
determined political opponent of Dailey’s Soudan
Contingent, and he predicted at the time a rapid
revulsion of feeling. Parkes proved a, true
prophet. There is not, however, a, politician
of his courage now in the political life of
Australia. Parkes, too, knew how to talk
Imperialism when the humor suited
the opportunity. But there was about
him a tremendous pugnacity. He
always liked to be a leader, never a
follower. He wanted to deny freedom
of speech to others. For himself he
insisted on a British subject’s right to be
heard in a loud tone of voice, and he didn’t
care whether he trod on the prejudices of an
ant or an empire.
“Melbournian”: Who now reinembers
John Curtain ? Before the Victorian boom
Curtain must have been amid the richest men in
Melb. city, apart from the pastoralists. He spent
about £150,000 (mostly his own money) at Dookie,
in what he calls a chateau, an immense vineyard,
and a distillery, besides the large Gladstone Hotel,
and other town improvements. He came to grief
over a miserable little advance of £20,000 from the
Bank of Victoria, which at a critical moment
refused to finance him further, and all his sails
came down. Curtain was an M.L.A. and
• Melbourne City Councillor. He made his
money first in a little distillery on Yarra
bank, opposite the wharf, and used to have a
share in the Herald, with Winter, Halfey,
and P. J. Martin.
“T.D.” : If patriotism is to be measured
by the thirst for gore, the most patriotic man I
have yet fallen across was a Melbourne lawyer,
and a good Christian at that, who entreated some
departing boys in khakee to bring him back
Kruger’s scalp to hang up in his drawing-room.
The disgusting sentiment was cheered to the echo.
William McGregor Clarke, who made a
voluntary departure from this world by shooting
himself at Footscray, was a man of many
experiences and idiosyncracies. When editing the
Williamstown paper and sitting as member for
Footscray, he wrote a not too complimentary
article about Her Gracious the Queen. This met
the eye of an eccentric but poverty-stricken
ex-military officer in Adelaide. He instantly
started with a Zulu servant, and walked _ from
Adelaide to Melbourne. Unceremoniously
entering W. McG. Clarke’s office, he asked
for the editor, and finding him promptly
belayed him with a green hide. After
Clarke’s defeat for Footscray by big Hancock,
also deceased, he went to Westralia. He was
appointed Registrar at Mount Malcolm, and sub-
sequently, with Dr. Laver, started a newspaper
there. It was not a success. Blindness followed
GETTING HER MONETS WORTH.
LANDLADY: "Would you mind vacating that bed,
as the night watchman I let it to for the day
time is just coming up the street. ”
liis reverses, and melancholia followed on blind-
ness. About 12 months ago he returned to Foots’-
cray—surely the saddest place in the world to
return to. In ending his existence he left a re-
markable letter, in which he tackled the Almighty
for his peculiar treatment of some people in this
civilised world. Apparently his complaint that
luck wasn’t equally shared out afforded proof to
the jury that he. was of unsound mind, and the
verdict was accordingly.


**»»— The Favorite and Best Summer Drink in
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER
SEE THAT
YOU GET IT.
Look for
Genuine
FRANZ JOSEF
on Neck Label.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
MAGOIOGHIE’S
SILVOCEA
FRESH HERRINGS
HERRINGS IN TOMATO SAUCE
KIPPERED HERRINGS
THE VERY BEST.
139 GOLD MEDALS.
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
Aboriginalities.
AN ILL WIND, &e.
THE OLD GIRL: “ The
kangaroo shooters are
shifting camp this morn-
ing.”
THE OLD MAN : “ They're
volunteering for the
Bush Contingent , so
this morying’s rag
says.”
“ Wall an «oley” :
Re crane-building next to
hawks—hawk probably
waits until the crane
has “settled him down to rest,” and then
builds close by—with the hope of getting eggs or
chicks, during the temporary absence of Mr. and
Mrs. Crane. The crane of this locality, not to be
caught napping, frequently puts off laying opera-
tions until the hawks build —and they then find
rest for their souls in some remote spot.
* * * *
A “ round-the-continent ” cyclist, writing
from Northern Territory :
Northern Territory J.P. law. A Ohinaman was brought
up before a local J.P. for obscene language (the Ohinaman
at the time owed J.P. 13s. for meat purchases, the great
epitome of the law being also the local butcher). After
hearing the case, the Ohinaman was fined £2. Just then
the Court suddenly remembered his meat-bill, and he rose
and remarked, “ What about that 13 bob you owe me ?
I make the fine £2 13s. and costs, the fine to include my
account for mutton supplied to the prisoner.” The same
J.P. tried a man for horse-stealing. The witnesses re-
fused to give evidence, or said they had none to give.
Whereupon the Court wound-up a long address somewhat
as follows: “There is no evidence at all against the
accused, but the horses have been stolen by someone, so I
will have to fine the accused £5 and £lO costs.” And he
did. 10 p.m. : The curses of the drunks are varied to-night
by the ungodly howls of the blacks, one of whom died
near the pub. to-day. Most of the camp is down with
some epidemic, and the Ohow cook is playing some
fiendish instrument next door to my room. I’ll go and
kill him when I finish this letter. Musical evening last
night, all drunk, interruptions every half-hour or so to
permit of a fight'being finished.
* • * •
Dear Bulletin. —The ’roo’s competency
in looking after himself during the dry season
calls for more praise than the despised animal
mostly receives. Have often seen the ’roo in the
sandy bed of a dry creek digging for water, and he
knows enough to invariably start rooting in the
deepest hollows. He is a great surveyor, is the
’roo, and his instinct generally finds water for him
inside 48 hours. Never knew kangaroo to go
without water longer than this. — Spoof.
“ Snell ” : This is a snake item intended
rather to instruct than amuse. Joe (who tells the
“ true fact ”) and Jack, his mate, occupied narrow
beds on either side of a bark hut on the Piper
(Tasmania). Joe was awakened one night by
what he took to be the voice of some strong man
in his agony. He sat up in his bunk, and listened
with bristling hair and a creeping skin. He
heard it again, a voice that seemed near, but tiny
and strangely muffled, and “You miserable
swine ! ” were the words it said. Joe quaked and
hastily struck a match. Jack was sitting up in
his bunk, too, and glaring like one in a pale-blue
funk. ‘‘Did you hear it, Jack?” stammered Joe.
J ack moistened his lips and nodded several times,
and his face was that of a haunted man. “ There
he goes again!” “Oh, you miserable swine!”
The voice was only a stifled whisper, but it was
distinct enough, and breathed a nameless woe j
moreover, it certainly came from somebody in the
hut. Slowly, fearfully each man lowered his
candle and his head to peer under the bunks.
Jack started back with a yell, seized his gun, and
with the barrel yanked a sluggish snake into the
middle of the floor, and as it landed there came
from it in a feeble and despairing gasp: “ Oh,
you miserable swine ! ” For a minute two fairly-
paralysed men glared in dumb terror at the ser-
Eent. Joe was the first to recover. “ I know ! ”
e yelled, pointing at a great knot in the fore part
of the snake, “he’s swallowed Pete.” Pete was
their talented parrot. For further particulars see
H. J. M‘Cooey, Esq.
* • * *
“ Licensed Surveyor ” : H. J. M‘Cooey
(8., 20/l/’99) says, “A bright little girl had a bottle-
tick fastened on to her for only about three hours,
and although it was removed, and turpentine and
kerosene applied to the injured part, she died in
great agony the same night, 14 hours after being
bitten.” What on earth is H.J.M.’s “bottle-
tick ” ? The ordinary bush-tick here, as also the
dreaded “ Queensland tick,” which is not yet quite
here (Tweed River), after fastening to an animal,
human or other, developes to what we call a bottle-
tick (at any rate the female does), but not in three
hours, nor yet three days. It then falls off
mature, and lays its eggs on the grass-blades, etc.
Personally have often watched a common tick,
say on the jaw of one of the milkers, after trying
in a tired way once or twice to remove it in oppo-
sition to the cow’s evident desire to “ let it rip,”
and came to conclusion size of tick gave fair indi-
cation of
length of time it
had been adhering. Little
pigs are peculiarly liable to fatal
results from tick-bite. Believe I cured
one by administering bi-carbonate of
soda—reckoned “ the tiling ” here. Also,
as to dying in great agony. Tick-bite
appears to act by general dulling of the
perceptions, paralysis of hind-quarters— not agony
or violent spasms. May be wrong. My own
child, two years old, was very dull and sick twice
from tick-bite in the head. Have had them on
myself, the large ones in September and October,
in scores; the smallest species, almost invisible,
what the blacks call “cudgera,” in hundreds.
Would like to hear further about ticks.
* * * *
“ C.C.” sends some slanders on the bush-
teacher-off-the-chain:—
Dear Bulletin. —Funnier even than those letters re-
ceived by bush teachers which you print occasionally is it
to listen to the bush pedagogue off duty. During recent
holiday coach-trip we picked up in succession several
teachers going for the holidays, and the last we took on
board was a leary youth who looked like a “flash shearer”
in his best black suit, with a scarlet-and-green silk hand-
kerchief in lieu of a collar. Ho carried a spieler’s port-
manteau, about a -foot square, and hailed his fellow
instructors with : “ Hullo i is yous coves goin’ deown
below?” “Tm only goin’ as fur as Newcastle,” replied
one, and “I’m goin’ the ’ole blinded way,” said
another. “ Where’d you shake that bloomin’ port-
man ty?” asked a third. “I brung it up wi’ me
the last time I was deown teown. It’s blanky ’andy
to carry a shirt and a couple o’ sox in.” These
accomplished young men, the driver told me, were
all “ local coves,” sons of small farmers and laborers who
wanted their smartest boys to “ keep their coats on like
gentlemen” in the “ Eddication Department.” Out of
school such teachers drop back into the vernacular, and
their pupils do likewise. In the class-room the boy may
be taught correctly to parse—" I saw you throwing stones
at the dog,” but since, out of school, the same teacher
will remark to the boy—“ I seen you shottin’ stones at the
darg,” that boy will always “shot” stones. A lad may
pass the highest standard of a public school, but if he
does not learn to speak correctly as a child, no amount of
after care will repair the error. I would suggest that
batches of applicants for bush teacherships be placed in a
room where the Minister for Education can overhear
them ; then, if he should happen to know good English
from bad, the next generation of bush pedagogues won’t
get any of those funny letters from parents to send to
The Bulletin.
“ W.M.F.” : Re rumbling noises as of
iron tanks, mentioned by “Courant” (8., 20/1/1900).
Such noises are often heard on the Blue Moun-
tains about Lithgow. Never yet heard reasonable
explanation of them. No earthquakes there.
* * * *
“ D.S. W.” : We had been out lamb-tailing
all the morning, our dogs, as usual, being with us.
One of them was the mother of four pups, then
something under a month old. Going home at
dinner-time, she ran on ahead to attend to her
family. Family started to howl as soon as
attended to, and we went to find out the cause.
The mother had evidently been impressed by the
lamb-tailing and had taken to dog-tailing on her
own account, having bitten off three pups’ tails in
the neatest manner possible.
* * * *
“Camiro”: “ Werrimee’s ” par. (B.
13/1/1900) re sucking-pig, reminds me of an inci-
dent of the early days. Some 50 years ago,
among a mob of bullocks brought from the
Upper Murray to Melbourne, was one highly
objectionable and cantankerous beast nick-
named the “ Rip.” Fences in those days
were almost unknown. Near Flemington
the mob gave some trouble, the “Rip”
breaking away over the Flats. They let
him go. That cheerful animal’s time on
the way back to his old haunts, some 200
miles away, is said to have been about
seven days. Anyhow, he was there when
the drovers got back, and in an even
worse temper than usual. Apparently the
scenery on the return journey had aggravated
him.
“ Flabby Paul ” : Be “ Kangaroo Dick’s ’’
query (8., 30/12/’99) “How should scrub tick
poisoning be treated ? ” Never detach tick by
pulling it out. Either cut it in two with a pair of
scissors or drop kerosene on it. Directly you
catch hold of a tick he starts to inject poison.
(Have had them on myself and on dogs). After
cutting it in half with scissors or killing it with
kerosene, then detach it, and put kerosene on the
spot. Dog is not necessarily done for if paralysed
in hindquarters. Feed him on soft food till he is
well. For the first day or two he will most likely
vomit all he eats, but after that he will steadily
improve, unless another tick fastens on him. If
the dog lives two days he will recover.
• • * *
“ Gobung ” : Rockhampton is a town in
Mongrelia, bounded on the north by the Fitzroy
River, and on the S.E. and W. by Sneol and large
fohanners. It has a mixed population of whites,
lacks, yellows, and blaek-and-tans; also goats
and dogs, which depasture in the main street and
eke out a precarious existence on door-handles.
Insects, centipedes, cockroaches, and other
stingy creatures congregate in myriads round
the midnight kerosene, and are shovelled up in
cart-loads next morning. It is a lovely place for
rain, when there is any. The staple fluid of com-
merce is rum. Rockhampton has an open railway
station in one of its main streets. This shows the
trustful character of the authorities; they are not
afraid of thieves decamping with . the waiting-
room, or feloniously misappropriating the signal-
boxes. Also, the ticket-office is, or was lately,
the body of an old carriage that had seen better
days. Not long ago they opened a new railway
bridge. It was duly tested, and a learned bridge-
examiner announced authoritatively that the
structure had an oscillatory vibration of 14 yards
to the square pound, or words to that effect, and
that if it didn’t fall it would probably stand.
This is about all there is to say about
Rockhampton. North Rockhampton is
the same, only worse and not so much of it.
“ Asmodeus ” : Talking of black-trackers
reminds me that, years ago, a mailman out
Warialda way reported that he had been
“held up” and the mailbags looted. No tidings
could be gleaned of the marauders for a consider-
able time, when a clue was obtained in a strange
way. An orgie having, taken place at Warialda
the mailman was ar-
rested as a casual
drunk. A watch stolen
from one of the bags
was found upon him,
and he was charged
with the more serious
offence of robbing the
mail, being placed in
irons for safety’s sake.
During the night, how-
ever, by some means or
other, he shed his irons
and effected his escape.
The services of the
local tracker (Tommy
Bums) were called
into requisition.
Tommy tracked the
escapee some miles in
the direction of Triga-
mon station, then up
to the second rail of
a fence, which he had
evidently ascended to
cover his tracks, two
miles along the fence-
rail ; then on to Triga-
mon, about five miles
away. There he had
carefully mixed himself up with a camp of
about 20 other men, but Tommy picked
out his tracks among the crowd, thence
across the river, and on for another five or six
miles over rocky and mountainous country, till
the footprints gave out at the foot of a large tree.
Tommy was nonplussed awhile, and walked round
the tree several times. Then he suddenly climbed
up, and found his prisoner secreted among the top
branches. The fugitive was secured, but the
subsequent prosecution broke down, the owner of
the watch having died since the robbery.
• * • •
The attempt of a Chinaman and two
Mahommedans to enlist in the Victorian Bush
Contingent is the worst insult this country has met
with up to date.
ON A BUSH RACECOURSE-TREE’D!
A case of mistaken identity. Last year
the enterprising municipal council of Blayney
(N.S.W.) speculated in an up-to-date cart for
scavenging services. To all appearances, the vehicle
was first cousin to a country hearse. A farmer
driving into Blayney, a'ong the Norton road,
noticed the sombre vehicle approaching. He
reverently slackened his pace, then pulled up off
the track, and lifted his hat and put down his
pipe. There were no mourners, but he did not
marvel, as he had to hold his nose. He concluded
the deceased had died of something very serious.
THE GLORY O’ IT.
“ What’s matin’ that there Albert so bloomin'
proud lately?”
“Ol ’e’s ole man’s bin shot by the Boers”
A GERMAN LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I vas doin’ tam fine shplendid
Buyin’ sheep-skins, wool, and drippin’,
Und my cart-shpring mid ole Roany—
Veil, I lofe dem like mein vrouw;
Now dot lofe affair ish ended,
Und mein face won’t shtop from sklippin’
Ven I dinks apout dot pony
And dot cart-shpring and mein cow.
Duyfel turn dot tam cow over
Mit her tail-board on he’s fender—
If I tole her fifty-tousand
. Times I tole her once, to shdop
Feedin’ always on dot clover,
But, like all dot female gender,
She must want to know the “hows ” and
“ Whys; ” and so she bust up—pop 1
Veil, I harness up mein waggon— ~
For dot cow require some shiftin’,
Und she die close up mein kitchen—
Den I makes mein whip-stock crack,
Und dot cow pehind comes draggin’;
Roany up hill do some liftin’,
Und he sit back in the pritchin
Cornin' down de saddle track.
Soon dot funeral brocession
We comes windin’ down de diggin’s
Till I find a hole dot do me
For a grave-yart for mein cow
Pretty kviek I take bossession
Of dot mine-shaft sunked by Higgins,
Und I gee mein horse-cart to me—
Veil, I haf no horse-cart now.
“ Good-bye Taisy ! ” und she’s splashin*
Forty feet down mit de water ;
But dot rope I not untie it,
Und she drag mein horse-cart in—
Cart-shpring, Roany—all goes crashin’
Down mid tamful noise and schlaughter,
Und den ev’ryding’s so quiet
Dot you could pick up a pin.
BENDEE.
DRY.
The dust-clouds rolled o’er the roads of sand as the weary
teams went through.
The drovers coughed and the drivers swore—they swore
all the drivers knew.
It was in the days of the old man drought, and the rain-
less months went by,
And the bushmen’s greeting when bushmen met was
just, “ My oath, it’s dry 1”
A jackass perched on a gum-tree white, with twisted
limbs and bare,
With a saddened eye on the water-hole and the bony
cattle there ;
And he opened his beak with a grating laugh and a kind
of a lost-soul cry,
And he spoke to the moon, and. the words he said were—
“ It’s dry; it’s dry ; it’s dry 1 ”
The water-hole just off the track was but a patch of slime >
And the frogs moaned there at midnight in a runic froggy
rhyme,
And the crows joined in the chorus, lifting mournful
voices high,
To tell the silent stars—" It’s dry ; God only knows how
dry.”
For through the days of the old man drought all songs
bear one refrain ;
You hear it by the dried-up creek, and o’er the dried-up
plain,
And where the trees beside the road shake bare arms
at the sky,
By day and night the winds lament—“ It’s dry ; it’s dry ;
it’s dry.”
L.J.C.


ENGLAND’S
WELFARE
Depends on her Soldiers. Her Soldiers’ welfare depends on their
equipment. We supply two essentials of the equipment only.
The Field-Glass—the celebrated “ZEISS” field-glass which for long
range, for power, for clear definition —is the BEST glass yet produced.
Each eye-piece is adjustable separately to correct any imperfection
of vision.
Then our “ Fx&R ” Watch for wristlet is water-tight (cases screw together)
- is abnormally strong, and is absolutely reliable, 40s.
df
Our Classes are well
represented at the front.
FAIRFAX * ROBERTS,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
American Admiral Dewey’s wife is named
Evelyn, and so she is commonly called Dewey
Eve.
Arthur Russell, Americandentist, BBourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
perations.*
“APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty,
and the Obese. Apply to Chemists for “Regimen
for the Obese” Card, published by the Apollinaris
Company, Ltd., London.*
Hotel
Australia —»
Bates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
This Hotel has popularised hotel-living in Australia.
During our enervating summer, the cool and ele-
gant drawing rooms, the charmingly - arranged
dining room, the readiness and perfection of the
attendance, and the splendid appointments of the
Hotel throughout, prove a boon and blessing to
visitors. The Hotel is so loftily-built and situated
that residents sleep in a distinct atmosphere—a cool
light air, entirely free from the dust and impurity
of the city.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
“Kiltrumpie”: Re
slow trains. In Cen-
tral Q., have more
than once seen engine-
driver, gun in hand,
leave nis train and go
in quest of ducks. A
good stream for duck
runs nearly parallel
with one part of a
certain line, thus
affording sport, walk-
ing exercise, and re-
lief from monotonous
engine-driving on a
slow-timed road. The
train (mixed —timber-
waggons, goods-trucks,
&c., and a passenger-
carriage nearly always
empty) is brought along
by the stoker, about
lialf-a-mile behind the
sporting driver, at a
speed approaching
that of a bullock-dray.
The passenger—there
is sometimes one—
dangerously bad with
that tired feeling,
usually sits on verandah at end of carriage, with
feet dangling over the footboard; or an “ occa-
sional,” not too bad with the “feeling,” will be-
take himself to the van and have a chat with the
guard, who is keeping an anxious look-out at
every creek-bend to see if driver-sport has bagged
anything. You see he gets a third, provided the
game-bag contains more than two, or can other-
wise be divided by three.
* * * •
ill. J. Brady “ for the defence ” :
Dear Bulletin. —I appear on behalf of the crow—
hitherto abused by almost every Australian scribbler.
To begin with, the crow is not uglynot as ugly as the
jackass anyhow, and he keeps better company. No
respectable bush crow ever forgot himself so far as to
associate with reptiles, and he will draw the line at
uncooked snake —if there’s any cold mutton handy. The
crow in his shining broadcloth goes to the banquet with
Missus Crow in black satin on his arm. The crow has a
dignified carriage, much more dignified than the jackass,
wno wobbles afoot like a Chinese mandarin’s wife of high
degree.
The jackass is popular with the vulgar, simply because
he can extract a coarse joke from the merest trifle. We
have seen Australian Premiers holding office for years on
no better qualification. As a domestic pet the crow beats
the jackass hollow. He learns to talk and even to sing,
makes himself generally amusing and agreeable, and is
fond of children —of the calves of their legs at all events !
The crow, civilised, displays the quality of thrift in a high
degree. He has the bump of acquisitiveness strong, and
has a fine taste in spoons, thimbles, and things.
If he can find a knot-hole in the floor he opens a bank,
and he will spend most of his spare time adding to his
credit balance, though as a precaution against burglars he
never allows anybody to see him making his lodgments.
If he thinks anybody’s looking he immediately displays a
strong interest in the scenery.
In his natural state the crow is unaggressive and of a
most retiring disposition. If anybody invades his territory
he will not stay to argue the point. He shifts, especially
if there ! s anything like a gun in the case. The crow knows
exactly what a gun is for and how far it will carry.
I was once doing a little experimental chicken-farming
in which a patriarchal crow took a keen interest. He
lived a good bit back in the bush, but he would make it
his business to get up very early in the morning to see
how the chickens were coming out of the shell. He would
always alight on a certain fence-post when he was selecting
his poultry, so I put a gin-trap on the post for his con-
venience, but he never made any use of it. Then I added
some strychnine to an egg and partly hid the egg under a
few leaves o give things a casual look, and when the crow
discovered the egg and breakfasted on it I cheerfully
awaited results. After a time he began to look serious,
and apparently concluding that eggs were not good for
him, promptly reproduced his breakfast and was well
enough by afternoon for a full meal of poultry. Then I
loaded another egg. The crow dropped it inside the fence,
and the chickens referred to it and there were several
funerals. Next I “laid-for” that crow with a wire
cartridge* behind a fowl-house, and unwittingly he came
within extreme range and was perforated.
Taken right through, the Australian crow has a hard
life. The law of libel affords him no protection from
Australian newspapir people. Up country they put a
price of fourpence, and even sixpence, on his head. But
it does not pay to go gunning for the crow, unless with
artillery.
The hand and beak of the entire bush are against the
crow. In spring-time the soldier-bird makes his existence
a misery. He cannot sit down to enjoy a little meta-
physical abstraction without being assailed in force. His
hoarse protests avail him nothing. He is hunted like
a very pariah from tree to tree.
No wonder then that he makes reprisals when oppor-
tunity offers. But his reprisals are conducted on strict
economic principles every time. In places the plains
would be absolutely monotonous if the crow did not en-
liven them with his presence.
And yet I met an unappreciative old sundowner re-
cently who spent a lot of his spare time fishing for crows
with a hook and line.
He justified himself on the ground that crows had once
sampled an ex-mate of his somewhere out on the Barcoo.
I tried to explain to this old man that those crows were
simply performing a natural and necessary duty for his
friend, and, by way of analogy, I asked him if he ever
heard of anybody going fishing for an undertaker.
But he simply borrowed tobacco from me and went on
with his sport.
“ Roughrider ” : It is to be hoped our
Patriotic Fund will be better administered than
the British Crimean one was. The committee
which had charge of this affair, at a time when it
had £900,000 in hand, flatly refused any aid what-
ever to the practically : starving widow of a
sergeant who Had fought in almost every Crimean
battle, on the ground that it wasn’t dead certain
that his death arose from disease acquired in the
Crimea. They were very particular about the
letter of the law, were these same committee-men.
Yet they were so joyous and lavish when it was a
case of misappropriating the money for the benefit
of one of their own order that they paid their
alleged honorary secretary, a certain wealthy
Admiral Fishboume, £6OO a year. Also Colonel
Young, who was honorary secretary after Fish-
bourne, not only got a handsome salary,_ but
when he abandoned the billet was pensioned
for life. The Crimean Patriotic Fund was a
fearful and wonderful affair. Who is going to
permanently manage the N.S.W. Patriotic Fund,
and at what salary ?
(By a Victorian Amateur Artist.)
It lias been truly said that practically all
the good verse-makers of Australia are on the
anti-Jingo side. Also, pretty nearly all the bad
ones are loyal and crying out for “blood” and
trying to make it rhyme with “ entrenchment.
The worst specimen up to date is John Brooks
Whitehead, of Melbourne (where Purtell and
Zachariah Sutcliffe came from). John B.W. breaks
out thus on a small sheet of paper :
A PATRIOTIC (?) ITEM BY JEW HYAMS.
At Melb. Exhibition Concert, Jan. 20, 1900.
When a man dies of thirst in a book he
must first of all become a raving maniac, and tear
every stitch of clothing from his body. In the
real thing they die all ways—and the book-way is
about the rarest. The best known of Centralian
victims this year crawled to a bush, sat down on
the right heel (most bushmen’s favorite attitude),
apparently went to sleep like that, and never
woke.
The Australians have rallied around our flag,
The good old flag our fathers bore
Over land and over sea for a thousand years or more.
The Australians have left thc'ir native shores,
Our boys have gone to fight the Boers,
They have volunteered to go in front,
They are standing now the battles’ brunt
Shoulder to shoulder with the British soldier,
Hand in hand with the sons of the sea.
Each heart beats true ’neath the red, white, and blue,
Blood is thicker than water, I know, so do you ;
The Americans proved it at the Forts of Taku.
Our boys are ready for hopes forlorn,
They want to prove they are British born,
And worthy of their sires ;
All Britons do with martial flame,
And so do these sons of ours.
Our boys of our Empire from-every clime
Where the sun never sets, where the sun always shines,
They all speak our dear mother tongue,
They are coming, they are coming, yes coming along
To meet, to meet on dark Africa’s shore
To fight and chastise the insolent Boer.
The ungrateful Boer, now and evermore,
Are down in the world’s estimation ;
They turned on us, ungrateful that they are ;
We saved them from annihilation
By the wild tribes that around them do dwell;
Who would have sent them all pell mell
To where they would never have troubled us more,
The artful, intriguing, treacherous Boer.
John Brooks Whitehead.
154 Commercial-road, Prahran, January sth, 1900.
Mr. Rudyard Kipling is only a strippling,
That is in age to me ;
He was born in 65, and I in 33.
I was dancing upon this earth
When Rudyard Kipling could not see.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
J.H.L.: Now, how could The Bulletin—ex-
cept by the wildest chance —know anything about such a
matter 0.N.8. : Not enough in it E.L. : Has
novelty, and some force. May print Vic. : Bubonic-
plague-poem promptly interred in the basket! U.B. A. :
Will consider anything you send. Be as terse and pointed
as possible Trotter: Thanks, but it’s only interesting
in spots J.G.D. : “ Push’’-pomes have to be .very well
done to carry the dialect. Yours is only middling work.
....Hori P. : But you make your Maoris talk mixed
Chinaman and Australian blackfellow. ~v D an Kerr:
Verse a little rocky but sentiment all right, so here goes:
FREE SPEECH.
The Boers ain’t goin’ to stop us from a-talkin’ on the
Band,
For we ain’t blanky foreigners, so let ’em understand
That every man is free to speak beneath the British flag ;
As long as he don’t say we’re wrong his tongue can freely
wag.
But when we find him on a job a-talkin’ as he likes,
Well, he must be very careful not to say what we dislikes,
For to his own opinion every foreigner is free—
But we’ll bash him on the boko if with us he don’t agree.
XX.: “Pure Merino ” yarn thin as the sharp edge of a
ghost O.: You don’t throw' much light on the subject,
and the medical authority who spells “eticette” and
“pittyable” doesn’t inspire confidence M.K. (Ade-
laide): Thanks for letter C.M.A.: Poetry on the death
of the 19th century hardly good enough to counterbalance
the fact that that century is still very much alive
8.A.L.: Not much good Alien : As a rule, every coun-
try has the kanaka it deserves. Queensland appears to
have deserved a lot of kanaka —and it has got him
J.B.R. (Melbourne): The bard who makes “ Long Tom ”
rhyme with “Old Tom” is a terrible circumstance A
Wee Laddie : Glad to hear that another institute takes
Tub Bulletin no more. The sight of 100 or 500 full-grown
men getting the benefit of our week’s work for one 6d. has
always made us feel sick. It is a mighty poor
town where we don’t get 10 new private subscribers
when this red publication is no longer to be seen
on the cheap at the School of Arts or the “ Institoot.”....
Gobung : You are right—it is not up. The other is better,
and ends well, but would need too much re-writing....
L. de B. : Did you get drunk to write about the other
drunk? Con.: Rather clever, but too slight Gor-
beak : Mere prose cut-up into lengths—and pretty bad
prose at that. For the rest, your opinions are natural at
your age. In 10 years’ time you’ll wonder at yourself for
having held them.... Flabby P. : Part pretty good; rest
very weak... .Blueblack : Brief and brisk ; may use....
Neyab: Will consider K.C.W. : Not badly done, but
interest scarcely strong enough Minetta : Good crisp
touch ; may use. To your question—yes ; there is pro-
mise in your work... .L.J.C. : “Ain’t it Dry” will do
with a few alterations V.F.R. (Perth): Write Angus
and Robertson, booksellers, Sydnev, re Churchill’s “ River
War.” Shibley was extracted from N.Y. Criterion, un-
obtainable locally.. ..E.G. : No profit in lengthy Trans-
vaal moralisings Alpha: Some humor, but otherwise
not up to mark S.C.O.J. : May tighten-up and use
Neville F. : Mav print Mahey : Gentleman once ; de-
Sradation; heroic rescue of child; pathetic hospital-
ecease to tears of pretty nurse—all well-battered fictional
“ properties.”... .Jacky : Lacks skill, but shows good
observative power... .N.T.A.S. : Your last verse :
....The Swab : Poor but honest joke Coonamble :
Glad to hear it. As we have said before, we simply hate
to see 200 or 300 or 400 people reading one 6d. copy of
Tub Bulletin in a school of arts. We would like to make
a law forbidding any reading-room to take in this paper
under pain of disembowelment and death Alone :
Poem all right till we came to the “ filthy hog.” Then we
left. After all, he’s as clean a hog as other hogs, and is
just the ordinary hog A Game of War : Pretty dull
The Pelican : Well, to be beastly accurate, people mow
grass and it turns into hay afterwards. Don’t be an
aggravating purist, like that person who objected to
“Circular Quay” (Sydney), and called it “Semi-
Circular Quay ” in a Govt. Gazette, when it is
really an inlet the shape of threequarters of an egg
Christmas Treat: Don’t care to use verses already pub-
lished by another paper except on very special occasions.
John R.: “ Pegasus ” has finish and refinement. Will
consider... .W.W.: Good bit of wild life; may use....
Eugenia S. : Verse, too far-fetched and awkward. Prose
sketch, clever ; may print... .Sidney S.M. : Tales will be
reported on in due course. The man “who would never
marry a nurse ” is fairly well balanced by the man who
wants to marry her. Also, there are nurses and nurses—
“ ministering angels ” by real vocation, and damsels who
merely hanker after the reputation and the uniform
thereof Marie M.B. : Rather well done ; may ap-
pear Camiro: Neither up; though “Pup” has
some pathos J.F.H.: Feeble and conventional....
Leonard H. :No novelty or cogency Con. H. (W.A.):
The situation is good, but you have missed its fine
dramatic possibilities Quis: Yes; but “Jack” is in-
correctly added to “ Union’’—except in the case of the
small nautical union-flag used for special purposes. (Thus,
“ jack at the fore ”is the signal for a pilot). The U.S.
jack has the stars without the stripes Felix : Too laby-
rinthine and long and labored W.F.H. : (Ballarat):
Some of them good, and one quite excellent Democrat
(Christchurch): Great idea... .Leonidas: “ Land of Nod”
will do S.R.L.E. (Geraldton, W.A.): Poor miserable
little thing, do you feel so bad as all that ? And with all
you haven’t the courage to give your name... .T.G.F.:
Will appeal to our best snake-liars for the required infor-
mation. . .Anti-Freebooter : Yarn too large to be swallowed
by anything smaller than Whale, the Jonah-eater.. Austra-
lian Fair Play : Received with thanks N. Treble : After
seriously considering that remark we give it up. . Some
(1 ly when the poetic afflatus is on us again we may re-
member what we meant-by it Taiaroa: Query: is
Dunedin proud of its roaring bloodthirsty bishop ?
W. J.P.: Parrot yarn good when it was new. Our grand-
father’s uncle liked it very much when he was young
Judas Jones : First verse beautiful; after that an unfor-
tunate tailing-off sets in Pan: “In the Shade”
nearly got in, but we escaped in time M.J.H.U. :
Good, but alas! not new. If only all the good yarns were
new what a beautiful world this would be.... Libertas :
Can’t go so far as the “ corpse-begotten breeze” or the
“ carrion hand.” Agree with most of the rest. Could
you withdraw the corpse-begotten breeze? C.C. :
Some good points about dog and goat tale, but not
enough Rick: King Billy and the crockery not
printable Musician : Truly, Absent-minded Beggary
grows to be a weariness... .Maori : Not new enough....
Queen D. : Too snuffly in flavor. Why drag God into the
scrimmage on either side? Prospect G.: “Amour” is
prose, thinly disguised as verse, and is perilously near to
nonsense in any case... .F.R.8.: “ File ” —vile !...Jan Rik:
But you should distinguish between “American opinion”
and Irish- American opinion—two very different things...
Olive J. H.: No need to “ scarify ” you. Very fair work,
though you obviously lack experience R.O : Some
delicacy and grace ; but the imagery is conventional,
and the metre slumps badly in places Kelpie, Well-
intended, hut grievous lack of 5ki11.... Eiffa: ‘‘Cooks
Fat ” hardly suitable.... Australian Native : What is this •
... .G.L.W. : You say, “ Sympathy with the foe in critical
times leads to unpleasant consequences on the European
Continent, but hated magnanimous Bull simply smiles.’
Well, you must have a miserably low opinion—far lower
than we ever had —of the fighting capacity of Britain if
you call this ruction with two of the smallest States on
earth “ a critical time.” The vilest slanders directed
against the British Empire in this war are those of the
loyal crowd which represents Britain as so weak and
cowardly that this ruction with a nation 150,000 strong
and perhaps enough outside sympathisers to make up
300,000 (men, women, and children) is a dreadful crisis
when all the empire must stand by Mother or she will
perish Recorder: Can’t afford the space.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.W.O. : Joke too weak to carry sketch U.B.A.
(Brisbane): Unsuitable... .C.P. : Absent-minded Beggar
been illustrated to death.
Apropos what is known as “ Goyder’s line
of rainfall,” now almost universally accepted as
the late Surveyor-General’s division of S. Aus-
tralia into a southern area suitable for agriculture,
and a northern area too droughty for anything but
wool-raising, the present Surveyor-General in a
recent report shows that the late Goyder did not
draw the line for that purpose at all. A quarter
of a century ago, special rent concessions having
been asked for, he had to define the territory
which had suffered from a drought then in blast;
and this line, marked for that special purpose,
was the result.
MORE JOY IN
HEAVEN!
JACK: “ Rather an undig-
nified attitude for a parson,
don't you think?”
TED: “ Not at all; he’s puttin’ up
his record.”
JACK: “ His record I What record?”
T ED: “ Of soles saved !”
“ O ! peaceful is this village dear,
And oh ! how how very pretty ;
To think that all will disappear
And one day be a city.”
’Twere easy thus to jingle for a month. Thus :
Though good the metre and the rhyme,
Damfoolish is the ditty 1
That people thus will waste our time —
It is a blooming pity.
Hash-foundry : A great truth Sympathy : Many
thanks Amb. G. : One verse printed with some mis-
givings :
Wend me by the pool
Fern-girt, and reflects the sky
She bathed her brow there.
A mortgage on his possession
The Kangaroo did give
To pay the cost of chasing
The Bullock, who does live
In “ fontains ” and in “ kopjes,”
The Kangaroo pawned his land
For Whale, who cannot stand
On shore —we must confess.
From his Brethren, the Kangaroo
Gives blood for Titles, straight,
Without a refferando.
Such, is his own ones fate,
And if they disapprove.
He puts them off their Billet
Who “ sympathizes ” fill it.
He has no country love.


c fj
S&aS*
s' \ r*
[ J&vjf&ii &
Y
J^l
Ss*.**?
'c&^l
■\b
If O rfoAir^
n>utr 'ffc«
viy'ul ClatoctMo'li
) ilr* I
/ZlOQlrtid ?
v&^otts
\sk&\
Wr,
) 'N "v 1
W>£c*J *»& A
Sa*"M< r * ,a/t \
|/§?
W
‘Zf/ikZeZk’
?7 " /Slip
k Eras®
'iclnO Aucfcr C/^'
-* ? r~(?K Q wwr
■<*i/L& aubfietLA 6Utf~&ii La-fc<deu/c~x^>
/3<ry. • c/ L
y *
,/y
r
5
“BULLETIN” PROGRAMME FOR THE VIC. PARLIAMENTARY CONCERT IN AID OF THE “PATRIOTIC FUND.”


PRESENT ASPECT OF THE N.S.W POLITICAL HEAVENS.
“ When the Lyne Ministry was sworn in I was told that Mr. Barton would probably go to
England in connection with the Federal Bill. Mr. Lyne pledged his word that if ever he contem-
plated sending anyone to England in that connection, nothing should be done without the
approval of Parliament. Mr. Lyne abused me greatly for paying Mr. Neild a sum of money to
cover the actual expenses of work performed two or three years before, without first having
obtained the approval of Parliament, and I was thrown out of office upon that point."
To sing
the “ Absent-.
minded Beggar ” is
becoming a somewhat risky \
business, owing to the carelessness
of the coin-throwers. Both Mr.
Harry Rickards and Mr. Tom Rain-
ford have suffered severely through
being struck by pennies.
Let the “ star comique ” adopt' this cos-
tume and he can sing “ Pass the hat for
your Country’s sake, and pay-ah, pay-ah,
pay-ah-pay-ah ” in perfect safety.
A great
deal has been
■written of late of
the advantages derived
ffom the free supply of jam
to troops on active service. A suggestion
has been made that if one of the virtues be due to the presence of
sugar in large quantities the same end
might be attained by a supply of
honey, and several bee farmers
in Central Cumberland are
considering the advisa-
bility of offering a
large quantity to
the authorities at
a low rate, by way
of experiment.
Melbourne, Wednesday The fob
lowing is a sample of letters received
sfrom privates in the Victorian con-'
tingents : —“ The New South Wales
=men think too much of themselves,
and talk as if they owned the earth
They wear a big •* A ” on their shoul-
der-straps, and the officers have Aus- 1
jtralia ” in full.
There is a persistent .rumor afloat that
.Beauchamp intends to throw up his job
and go home to his parents.
Tbmmy Atkins of a Past Period :
• “ Great Scott ! What price
Waterloo on that kind of tack'!”'
This is too bad ! When everybody
knows that '‘Australia” is spelt with a V
nowadays.
A JOB LOT.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
sdf
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
I
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery,
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
A
s
B IUNDBRn
N
%
f/
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong, Cheap, Reliable Levers. Unrivalled, 20s ;
Silver, 35s ; Hunting, £2. London Keyless Lever,
25s ; Silver, £2 2s ; Hunters, £2 10s.
Gold Post Card Qharm, Penny
Stamp, 10* ; Silver Gilt, 5s 6<L
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Gold Heart Links, 12s 6d|
150., 25a. Silver, 3s 6d-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, 20s, 26b ; 16c. Gold*
355, £%. Monogram on, 2s 6d
extra. Solid Silver, 6a.
■ - '• - —~~
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double), £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, £6. 15c. Solid Gold, £6 10s, £O, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s Od, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Bock.
Links, 9c. Gold, 215.; 16c.
Gold, 35s and £2. Silver,
4s 6d.
Other Style, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 16a, Me.
Silver, 2s 6d, 3a.
WHEN
-
IZP
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Ivy Leaf and Heart Motto,
12s 6d ; Silver, 4s 6(L
15c. Gold, Diamonds and Ruhies, with
Ivy Leaves, 255. Very cheap.
Latest Style, Solid Gold, Good Luck
Brooch, 10s 6d. 15c. Gold, 21s.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Heart, 12a M.
9c. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and
Heart, 10s. Special value.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Double-cut Diamond,
£2. Splendid value.
A. SAUNDERa
Gk>ld Century Brooch, 15s. Latest Rage.
A. SAUNDERa
it& Gold S-Bar Scroll, Diamonds and Sapphire
or Rubies, £2 XOs. Very strong.
A. SAUNDERS’
Pearl Bet Bird, 8 Bells and Chain Gold
Brooch, 13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 16a Gold,
Diamonds, £2 10s and £B.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Similar Pattern, 255.
Pure Diamond Hand
Kings.
16c., 30s ; 18c., £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
Any Name.
Be. Gold, 12s 6d, 16s ;
16c., 20s, 25s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d; 15c. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £los, £l2 10s,
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s 6d.
15c. Gold Wish-Bone and Forget-me-
Nots, only 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS’
Lucky Wish Bone and Arrow Gold
Brooch, 12s 6d; Ivy Leaf, 10s.
Gold Bracelet, 4 Opals and Pearls, very neat, £2 16a.
Gold Bracelet, Opal and Rubies, £2 10s
LATEST LADIES’ RAGE.
Registered “ Gold Sword” and Spray Brooch, 13 Pearls,
Ruby, or Sapphire, and Diamond, 255.
Without Diamond, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDEES. New Century Gold Brooch,
Diamonds and Pearls, 20s.
Gold Brooch, 7 Opals, 14 Pearls, 85s.
Bracelets to match, £ 2 15s.
A. SAUNDERS. Registered 9c. Gold Amethyst
Brooch, 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
KINDLY
CALL.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Sflver Hunting Keyless, 255, 30s, £1
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
Ail Guaranteed.
TRY
US.
Gold Envelope
Twopenny Stamp
Charm.
Any Name, 12s 6d.
Silver Gilt, 6s 6d. ■
Solid Gold Charm
that charms, 10s Gd.
Procured only at
A. SAUNDEBS.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires, or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, £3 and £4.
Send for Size Card.
18s. Solid Gold, extra
strong- and heavy, one
or three diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
sd
2-Bar Gold Brooch, Red Stones and Pearls, 20s.
fs
Gold Good Luck Bells.
4s 6d. 3s 6d. 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
TTTf3.TT.riT. /V BH T.TCT A TTTKTg. JEWELLER & SILVERSMITH,
DISPLAY OF PRESENTS IS A PANORAMA OF LOVELINESS
815 George-atreet (NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYESrE3r.
Sleep When Work is Done.
During’ the late summer (1896) I passed several
weeks in a foreign city nearly 700 miles further
south than London. We had about ten days
intense heat, and for six nights when it was worst,
I do not think I slept as many hours altogether!
Tiie resulting nervous collapse was simply awful.
My brain reeled and I could neither understand nor
do anything rightly. I walked, as the good Book
says, “in a vain show. ” What a blessed thing is
sleep ; how destructive, how killing to lose it.
In healthy sleep the nervous system is inactive
—more especially that of the brain and spinal cord.
The body lies quiet, the muscles relaxed, the pulse
slower than when we are awake, and the breathing
less frequent but deeper. Then nature—wise
keeper of the House of Life—proceeds to renew
the energies expended through the day. To miss
this renewal, even in part, is to tread the edge of
insanity and look into the mouth of death.
“Methought I heard a voice cry, ‘Sleep no
more; Macbeth doth murder sleep!”’ So said
Macbeth himself; but there is a power which
murders more sleep than ever did Duncan’s
assassin; and to that Mrs. Beattie alludes when
she says of her daughter, “ She got no sleep.”
“In May, 1891,” writes the lady, “ m y daughter
Letitia fell into a low, weak condition, and could
not get up her strength. She had no appetite,
and what little food she took gave her great pain
at the chest and side. She got no sleep at night ,
and became very nervous and low spirited.
“ As time passed by she grew weaker aud more
'feeble, and we thought she would never get better.
A doctor attended her but none of his medicines
seemed to suit her case, and for two years she
continued to suffer.
“One day she read in a book about Mother
Seigel’s Curative Syrup and what it had done for
others. She got a bottle from Mr. Nieholls,
chemist, Donegal Place, and after taking it began
to improve, being able to eat, and her food
agreeing with her. After having used this medi-
cine a short time she was strong and well as ever,
and has since been in good health. For a long
time I myself suffered from weakness and indiges-
tion, and seeing what good Mother Seigel’s Syrup
had done I took it and was' completely restored to
sound health, You may use this statement as
you like. (Signed) (Mrs.) Mary Beattie, 23,
Trinity Square, Belfast, August 14th, 1896.”
“In the early part of 1894, ” writes another, “ I
began to suffer from indigestion. I had a poor
appetite, and all food gave me pain at my chest
and a gnawing feeling at my stomach. No
matter how light the food T. took I had pain and
sick headache,
“For over a year I was tormented like this,
when Mr. John Weir, living in this place, told me
how he had been cured by Mother Seigel’s Syrup,
and recommended me to try it. I did so, and
soon all pain left me, and I have since, enjoyed
good health. I know many persons residing in
this district who. have often been benefited by
taking the same medicine. Often in my shop I
hear persons say what it has done for them. You
are at liberty to publish this letter. (Signed) Alex
Wilson, General Merchant, Castlewellan, New
castle, Co. Down, Ireland, Aug. 15th, 1896.”
Indigestion or dyspepsia destroys the power to
sleep by starving, and thus weakening the nervous
system. Indeed the whole body starves, and is
thrown into profound disorder. Food may be
taken into the stomach, but, as people constantly
say, “It does no good. ” No ; but in a sense it
does harm. Fermented, soured, undigested it
develops poisons which act upon the system some-
what as a pestilence does upon a community,
flesh is lost, strength gives away to trembling
weakness, courage is supplanted by fear, and life
is dreary and desolate. That Mother Seigel’s
oyrup should be able to cure a disease so common
and so terrible is reason for gratitude to us all.
£ or the healthy work and sleep.
The Launceston (Tas.) Daily Telegraph
has discovered a new kind of white Australian
whom it proposes to train for the war. And this
is what it says of its recent find in issue of Jan. 8 :
Their height ranges from sft. Bin. to 9in. to almost any-
thing up to 7ft. They have been in the saddle ever since
they could “ toddle ” and in some cases even before that.
■ . . They ride like no other man in the world can ; they
have a pretty and workmanlike seat from which nothing
short of a “regular crumpler” will shift them. ... It is
a common thing ... to see an absolutely unhandled colt
' 1 in , hand > and within two or three days this
colt will be taken out “ kangarooing ” ridden by a 6ft.,
long-legged, keen-eyed man, armed with a Winchester
rifle. . . . They can sight a sheep or “ beast ” on a hill or
in a valley at a distance which the ordinary individual
could hardly make out with the aid of a telescope, and
tell you whose it is and wi*re it comes from. . . . They
swim rivers, cross deser.s, nle steep ichases, bowl over
running rabbits with bah cartridges. Wnat they cannot
jump the pair will climb over. . . . These men will . . .
fight any man ; they can drink anything, from “ post and
rails ” tea to bush rum, manufactured from sheep tobacco,
turpentine, painkiller, and boiling water ; and subsist on
cold mutton and damper all their lives.
“ Old Dad,” toiling and moiling on his selection,
wouldn’t know himself in this gorgeous, wild-
Indian description.
“ Y.A.” on “Thrift”
“ Thrift is a sign of inferior race ” (8.-, 25/2/’92). Wrong.
The very inferior races, such as Australian aborigines,
Oape bushmen, etc., are notoriously thriftless. Extreme
thriftiness is an attribute of nations that have passed the
zenith of their power, and whose people, accustomed to
having all they wanted, must now by means of thrift put
by enough to secure a part at least of what they have
been accustomed to. Take France and China, typical
examples of thrifty countries in Europe and Asia. Each
has been a greater power, the one but recently, the other
when Britons painted their bodies blue. The Syrians,
nearly all Indian races (Tamils, Sikhs, Parsees, Bengalees,
Afghans, etc.) exhibit this trait in a marked form : they,
one aftd all, are thrifty. Not so the Malays, who have never
known a higher state of civilisation, whereas the Javanese,
a nearly allied race, who have retrogressed from a higher
civilisation in the 16th century, are thrifty to penuriousness.
Thriftiness is quite compatible with laziness. The Portu-
guese are essentially thrifty and no less lazy. So,
too, are their colonial descendants, the Brazilians,
&c. One might consider the Germans and Japan-
ese as exceptions. Perhaps thereby they prove my
. theory, but neither race is essentially thrifty, the thrift
of each is merely a corollary to the known fact of their
industry and sound common sense. In a mixed police
force I know of the Malay and Dyak contingent were ever
in debt, the Europeans were uniformly penniless, while the
Sikh and Pathan brigade saved 50 per cent, of its salary,
of which the greater part went to India, the balance being
loaned to needy comrades at more than cent, per cent.
The Indian is the worst of aliens in this respect. He
spends nothing in the foreign country where he resides.
By usury, trade, and thrift he thrives. The China-
man, while economical, is.not penurious, is markedly
charitable, and stands head and shoulders above
the cringing “ Tamil ” and foxy Bengalee.' In the native
Malay states in Borneo, and even in the most populous
Straits Settlements, in spite of the übiquitous “ Chetty ”
(Indian money-lender class from S.W. coast), the Sikh
policeman is “ uncle ” to a host of impecunious nephews
whose security is too thin for the “chetty.” For £lOO
the charge is £l2O, repayable at £lO a month. The
first instalment 'is deducted from loan “to save
trouble.” European police-officers are their best cus-
tomers, for fear of exposure is a great security
SORE EYES.
Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment —the uni-
versal remedy—over 50 years in use, still un-
rivalled. See testimonials. Sold everywhere, 2s.
per pot. Take no other.*
“ 0.” : Heard a German sailor deliver this
lecture on temperance over a Hobart bar-counter:
“Und my mate he vas a-speening it oop in the
pooblic-howse; und I say, ‘Vy you go fooling your
monies liker that? Vy you no puy a moonkey
yacket? Ven you geds ouderside, und de nor’-
vester he blow, you vill den cry oudt, “Vydid
not I puy a moonkey yacket ?” ’ Und he say,
‘To ’ell vith your moonkey yacket! ’ und goes on
a-speening it oop. All a-righdt. We geds ouder-
side, und oop comes a nor’-vester, cold as ize. I
sees my mate a-carouching oonder de galley. Und
he say softly to himselluf, ‘Blow yently, nor’-
vester, blow yently, blow yently.’ Und I smiles
to mineselluff und I say, ‘Ha ! mine friendt. You
vill not go a-speening it oop in de pooblic-howse
nexer dime. You vill puy a moonkey yacket.’
‘Yes,’ he say, ‘blow yently, nor’-vester, blow
yently.’ Vat you haf, Meester Pooblie-hows-s-se ? ”
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. , Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
A prominent American newspaper-woman
writes, in the Arena, on the female gutter
journalist. Her professional life is about four
years, after which she is written out. She usually
comes up as a nice fresh girl from the country,
with a local newspaper reput xtion. The editor
sends her out masquerading in all sorts of forms,
involving much lying and deception, for instance,
as Salvation lass, masseuse, nurse to a gentleman,
and other ingenuities. She even invites insult by
passing as a woman of the pavement, all for the pro-
duction of columns of copy, with her own name,
and the names of such victims as she can impale.
Weather Forecasts.
When a picnic or a cricket-match or any other
outdoor jaunt is in prospect, how eagerly we look
for Mr. Barrachi’s or Mr. Wragge’s prophetic
utterances on the subject. In these colonies where
climatic changes and disturbances are so rapid
that, though the morning may be warm and sunny,
the afternoon rain may drench you to the skin,
and the evening air chill you to the marrow, it
must be very difficult for even the most expert
weather scientist to prophesy with anything like
accuracy. We frequently have the greatest diffi-
culty in judging what clothing to wear, and es-
pecially will this be the case with those suffering
from liver and kidney complaints. The only safe-
guard for such is a prompt recourse to Warner’s
Safe Cure. It quickly regulates the liver, and
has a soothing tonic effect upon the kidneys, re-
moving the pains in the small of the back, and is
a positive cure for all forms and stages of kidney
disease. At least Mr. Mackinnon of 203 Liver-
pool Street, Paddington, Sydney, N.S.W., found
it so, for he says : “I suffered terrible pains in my
back, and found no relief until I used Warner’s
Safe Cure and pills. I would very strongly advise
all my friends and others to use same, and I can
recommend it to be a certain cure. I always re-
commend Warner’s Safe Cure to my friends, who
also have found it very beneficial.”
Much bunkum has been poured forth by
jingoes in the Yic. Civil Service. They kept up
the rapid splutter till a Minister gave the vague
understanding that the Cabinet would “deal with ”
any civil servant who wasn’t fully convinced of
the justice of the war. The Victorian Government
has no power to “deal with” any civil servant
for holding any opinions on any subject. The
Public Service Act provides : “ After the passing
of this act no officer in the Public Service shall be
dismissed therefrom or suffer any other penalty in
respect thereof except for the causes and in the
manner set forth in this Act.” No part of the Act
says anything about anybody’s political opinions,
therefore if the M‘Lean Government carries out its
threat some fine large bills for damages may be
expected.


Read the
other corners.
Cut
out this
Puzzle and
paste it on a
piece of cardboard.
J' J?
A %
AAV' iWT
A®v?° a °V>|- *a
AAV A>>!#
AAV *, &
<v> W* V,o® A s
w»
Blessedness of Books.
E. W. COLB.
Books should be found in every housa,
To form and feed the mind:
They are the best of luxuries
’Tis possible to find.
For all the books in all the world
Are man's most precious treasure:
They make him wise, and bring to liiol
His best, his choicest pleasure.
Books make his time pass happily,
Relieve his wt ary hours: I
Aanuse, compose, instruct his mind, J
Enlarge his mental powers.
4L
A
S'
<CV<;
< v*
*>,><,. v;°a «v». <>/•
A?v *A& %• A %
V'O
'b. *<?
\%%%r %
<f V (V c> . cy
<X,' S V
<&-
V'°<
Books give the reader vast delight
The bookless never know:
Books give him pleasure day and night
Wherever he may go.
Books please him in his lonely hours,
Wherever he may roam:
Books please when read aloud among
His loving friends at home.
Books, like strong drink, will drown man’s care* J
But do not waste his wealth: 1
i Books leave him bktter, drink the wobsb,
1 in character and health,
ft Books teach and please him when a child,
1 In youth and in his prime:
■ Books give him soothing pleasure when
B His health and strength decline.
and
who/
x\
e$
si/.
as
Street
d\e
*2B
sg
ygest
!£ie*
a
a
3/*
>
still
*/?e
ss
\S
<y
<*•
5A
Sfe
ftonta/o^
£
H*
61
*o
*
<S
&
&
s
%
*
CO
1
•c
rV
o
+»
er
4*
a
-o
4-*
*r
cP
(0
o
<2
<s
<2
r*
■ns
<2
£
S'
a
v O
°8
©
*n
£
v
#/
r*
!X
ft
A
&
UJOJU
to
pu6
m
!®Vou
s*\
pjq
r<7,
?/
snl
**Oj:
Books show man countries, cities, towns,
Manners and customs too :
Books show what all men eat and drink.
And everything they do.
Books give, beside descriptions of
This grand world of our own,
Vast knowledge of the starry worlds,
And point to worlds unknown.
Books give to man the history
Of each and every land:
, Books show him human actions past— j
The bad, the good, the grand.
%>°x
°9> *0 *C> *£, ,<p- \/> \J* .
Vv
v>^
%
Books show man all that men have done,
Have thought, have sung, have said,
Books show the deeds and wisdom of
The living and the dead.
Books show the Joys, griefs hopes, and fears
Of every race and clan;
Books show, hy unity of thought,
The brotherhood of man.
Books show that men of every race,
Of colour, clime, and creed,
Have kindred feelings, passions, thoughts,
And brothers are indeed. J
’ ~* *& > ♦£
Try and
read this task
through without
making a mistake,
There are 260 Subjects in it.
A LITERARY
PRONOUNCING LESSON.
Booksconsisting of Bibles, Novels, Grammars, Catechisms,
Gazetteers, Dictionaries, Readers,Atlases, Diaries, Cyclo-
paedias, Bible History, Concordances, Commentaries, Old
Magazines, New Magazines, Church, History, Boys’
Presents, Girls’ Presents, Gents’ Presents, Ladies’
Presents, Church Services, Bible Explainers, Preachers'
Guides, Acts of Parliament, Bible Dictionaries, Christian
Evidences, Hymn books, Note books, Copy books, Musio
books, Irish books, Latin books, Greek books, Dream
books, Scotch books, French books, German books,
Prayer books, School books, Pocket books, Ladies’ books
Account books, Receipt books, Baptist books, Drawing
books, Exercise books, Military books, Secular books,
Catholic books, Spelling books, Reciting books, Wesleyan
books, Unitarian booka University books, Australian
books, Stationery books, Episcopalian books, Presbyterian
books, Spiritualistic books, Swedenborgian books, Con-
gregational books, Secondhand books, and Very Old
books. Books on Art, Food, Heat, Light, Logic, Optics,
Mining, Botany, Dyeing, Sewage, Banking, Dancing,
Politics,Washing, Painting, Brewing, Irrigation, Masonry,
Courting, Marrying, Heraldry, Language, Bicycling,
Evolution, Companies, Mechanics, Midwifery, Etiquette,-
Education, Telephony, Longevity, Quarrying, Conjuring,
Engraving, Carpentry, Distilling, Communism, Pisceo-
logy, Physiology, Nagivatfon, Mesmerism, Magnetism,
Ethnology, Pneumatics, Sailmaking,Seamanship, Hydrau-
lics, Pyrotechny, Ventilation, Bricklaying, Composition,
Metaphysics, Electricity, C° nc ' lo l°gy. Mineralogy, Sign-
writing, Ship-rigging, Engineering, Road-making, Metal-
lurgy, Physiognomy, Brick-making, Ship-building, Illumi-
nating, Meteorology, Hydrostatics, Wood-carving, Iron-
working, Architecture, Stone-cutting, Bridge-making,
Metal-working, Mortar-making, Letter-writing, Cabinet-
making, Brass-founding, Railway-making, Engine-driv-
ing. The Steam-engine, Civil Engineering, Electric
Lighting, School Management, Engineering Drawing,
Fish, Pigs, Bees, Cats, Dogs, Birds, Sheep, Cattle, Horses,
Rabbits, Pigeons, Biology, Poultry, Farming, Cookery,
Drawing, Geology, Surgery, Printing, Zoology, Farriery,
Building, Debating, Reptilogy, Gardening, Silkworms,
Astronomy, Shorthand, Temperance, Phrenology, Entom-
ology, Telegraphy, Wine-making, Hydropathy, Dress-
E. W. Cole’s
MAGIC'COIN
PUZZLE.
Find the Smooth Sixpence.
(Copyright.)
making, Colouring, Medicine, Acoustics, Fossilogy, Sut*
veying, Sociology, Elocution, Darwinism,
Needlework, Homoepathy, Hopculture, Mathematics j
Book-keeping, Climatology, Photography, Ornithology,
Freemasonry; Phonography; Self-culture; Vine-growing;
Agriculture; Arboriculture; Hemp culture; Child-rearing;
Horticulture, Anthropology,Confectionery, Sugar-culture,
Oddfellowship, Fern-gardening, Cotton-culture, General
Science, Natural Plistory, Fortune-telling, Sanitary
Science, Tobacco-culture, Physical Debility, Infant
Treatment, Artificial Memory, Moral Philosophy, Flower-
gardening, Domestic Medicine, Mushroom-culture, Poli-
tical Economy, House Management. Books of Fun, Law,
Plays, Songs, Essays, Poetry, History, Voyages, Travels,
Sermons, Lectures, Speeches, Proverbs, Biography,
Geography, Anecdotes, Simple Law, Quotations, Tab.e
'Talk, Amusements, Indoor Games, Family Prayers,
Discount Tables, Interest Tatles, Gems of Thought,
Religious Anecdotes, General Literature.
The above are the names of the headings in the Retail,
Wholesale, Half-price, and Secondhand Departments of
Cole’s Book Arcade, Bourke and Collins Sts., Mel-
bourne. More than a Million Books to choose from.
You can get almost any book you want there.
H»rrv Franks,
VICKERY’S BUILDINGS,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
t have the representation in Australasia of this
“BETS’ REGISTER.”
Used by Employers as a check on their Employees.
K
W
EVMANSON & CO.,
Call and see same at
above address, it i 3
well worth inspection;
or write for particulars.
df
I have the representation also of the
“HAMILTON
CASH REGISTER.”
Certainly the CHEAPEST on the market,
and AS GOOD AS ANY out here.
If you are a Buyer of a CASH B>EGTSTEB>,
I can SAVE you MONEY on your Purchase.
Block Arcade, Melbourne Agent.
ZETZ-SPA WATER
WHEAT SEASON, 1899-1900
All Grain held in Trust on Account of
Consignors .
Storage Accommodation—Spacious and Unrivalled.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
LIBERAL CASH ADVANCES.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile
Agency Go., Ltd.
"^Vnv.
pps^Hlp
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
The Universal Eemedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
Imagnesia,
sd
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Favorite
WHISKEY.
CEO.ROE&G?'?
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEAGHER &CO
82 A PITT ST,'
SYDNEY.
ASK
FOR
v\ e
st'ui
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported.
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit Merchants.
DRI/^OM^
vtar
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTCR BRAPLCy * CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art- Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4 FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction- Itoorns.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-sfc
POLITICAL
POINTS
A Sydney weekly states :
The anti-Billites still have a kick—and a strong one at
that—left in them.
Quite so. They are going to kick the bucket
violently.
Candidates for billets on the permanent
committee to distribute the N.S.W. Patriotic
Fund are already pushing to the front, and over a
dozen sharp-witted individuals are racing for the
secretaryship, which will presumably carry a good
salary. In such cases the secretary is often the
largest beneficiary.
Townsville (Q.) Bulletin states that out
of 969 persons arrested last year in its town 150
could neither read nor write, 768 could read only,
or read and write very imperfectly, 45 could read
Und write well, and only six had a superior educa-
tion. A terrible record of ignorance for a land
which professes to have a compulsory education
system.
“H.”: London Times has a Sydney
correspondent, who evidently writes under orders,
like Miss Shaw, to give a reflex of English ideas.
With some ability, and at considerable length,
he keeps worrying at the idea that Australia must
contribute £2,000,000 a year to the support of the
British navy, instead of a paltry £126,000. This
is the sort of thing that will put loyalty to the
pinch.
This is the logic of Government grants in
Queensland
Firstly. The sugar industry in this district will never
flourish unless we have a central mill. Secondly. A
central mill is no earthly use unless Government also
builds us a tram-line to our port. Thirdly. The tram-line
is no use unless a wharf be built at its seaward end.
Fourthly. What use is the_wharf unless the approaches
be deepened ?
And so on ad infinitum.
Ex-P.M.G. Duffy startled Yic. Assembly
last week by rising to ask a trivial little question
re the firing of grass by engine sparks. It
was the first question he had asked in ten years,
said Duffy, and in the excitement of the historic
moment he forgot that he had merely given notice
of what he intended to say and was not actually
saying it. On learning that the House wanted a
verbal statement of his question, Duffy pulled
himself together and duly did what he hadn’t done
for 10 years.
London Morn ing
Leader, under the head-
ing—“ Sad End to a Use-
ful Life,” tells of the death
of an aged Folkestone
(Eng.) magnate, father of
Mrs. Applebee, murdered
a year or two ago in the
Transvaal. It states that
it was never discovered
whether the crime was
committed by Kaffirs or
whites, and adds bitterly
that the Transvaal Legis-
lature refused to grant any
satisfaction o r redress.
This sort of thing sounds
pretty awful, and when the
average person reads it
the callousness and ineffi-
ciency of the Boer Govern-
ment seem to stick out like
the fire-box of a locomotive.
And yet the Queensland
Parliament failed to give
any satisfaction or redress
over the three awful mur-
ders of British subjects at
Gatton —in fact, there have
been hundreds of undis-
covered murders perpe-
trated in Australia, and
none of the Legislatures
has ever given satisfaction
for a single one of them.
And supposing the English-
man, Nuffield, had been
treated in the Transvaal
as he was in N.S.W., on the same absolute
lack of evidence, what a shriek of rage there
would have been about, the Boer hatred of
England, and the corruption of Boer judges and
of Boer justice !
A Queenslander Writes :
Had the late session of Q. Parliament continued much
longer the Labor-party might have burst up. Glassey
was unreliable ; Brown—the best all-round man in the
party—could hardly drag his creaking bones to Parlia-
ment House ; Lesina and Givens were nightly making
asses of themselves, while the sober-minded members of
the party showed visible signs of despair and disgust.
Worst of all, Dawson was utterly worn out. The ex-
Premier is getting into a pathetic state of mental and
physical weariness brought on by keeping himself at
high pressure through all-night sittings without sufficient
solid tucker or rest. Moreover, Dawson has not received-
the cordial and loyal support he deserved from some
prominent members of his party, who left the worn-out
leader to do all the hard toil during ‘the Barron Falls, Sea-
forth Estate, and other stinkful debates. He has friends
and sympathisers in plenty, but friendship and sympathy
in Queensland mostly consist of invitations to “come
and have another.” Dawson very rarely takes another.
If he did take another it, on top < of his other troubles,
would probably break him up altogether.
The Forrest crowd recently made an effort
to work up an Anti-Separation League on the
W.A. Goldfields, by way of counterblast to the
Separation movement. It only got 28 members,
and they refuse to allow their names to be pub-
lished, presumably lest public scorn should fall on
them like a tree, and crush them. A wiser
Government than Bigjohn’s would not have thus
exposed its weakness.
The discredited Continuous Government of
Bananaland, having exhausted the old revolution-
ary and socialistic bogies wherewith it was accus-
tomed to scare the electors from voting Labor, has
now fallen back on the Disloyalty-accusation as a
last resource. According to the Courier, a change
of Government in Queensland will be fatal to the
Empire, the welfare of which is somehow indis-
solubly connected with the Administration which
has perpetrated so many stinkful jobs.
Bad as N.S.W. municipal law is on the
face of it, it is made worse when the courts begin
to interpret its provisions. A recent interpreta-
tion of one clause limits the right to vote to the
actual person who pays the rates. Hitherto, if
the owner paid the rates in the occupier’s name
the latter could vote, but this interpretation,
which is said to have the approval of the Full
Court, knocks most occupiers out, and narrows
the municipal suffrage so much that a shadow
could hardly crawl through the Act sideways.
Premier John Forrest, of W.A., had a
chance to size up his popularity in his own province
on his recent journey eastward. At Albany,
which Bigjohn is doing his best to ruin by his
scheme for shifting the mail-steamer business to
Fremantle, right at the back-door of Perth (where
brother Alick’s property is), one hotel-keeper
refused to have his premises polluted by Bigjohn’s
presence. Also a cabman, being called upon to
shift the great man back to the pier, refused with
some considerable blanky to have his cab and
horse thus contaminated; and the people burnt
Forrest in effigy during his stay.
The well-equipped viticultural college at
Rutherglen (Vic.) had, at a recent date, only two
scholars. Which circumstance emphasises the
fact that, despite the persistent howl for rural
education, the rural population has no desire for
anything out of the old happy-go-lucky, rule-of-
thumb order of things that did very well for its
father and its grandfather. It doesn’t want science
at any price. It wants to sit down and smoke,
and try to strike the winner of the Benambra
Stakes. And as the State can’t round the popu-
lation into its colleges with a stockwhip, all the
State can do is to sit still and consider how much
too previous it has been.
The Queensland folks boast that their
educational system is “ free, secular, and com-
pulsory.” The boast is entirely at variance with
fact. The Queensland schools are not free, inas-
much as the local public has to contribute one-fifth
of the cost of buildings. Neither is education secular,
for a Parliamentary motion has just sanctioned the
spending of State scholarship funds on the de-
nominational colleges. Neither is the Q. system
compulsory, for no youngster in Bananaland was
ever yet compelled to attend school by an attend-
ance officer. Which knocks the legs from under a
triple fallacy. The freedom doesn’t matter so very
much, but the ‘ ‘ secular and compulsory ” are
things of real importance.
HE PREFERRED TREASURE ON EARTH.
HEAD OF THE FIRM (who always likes to take an
interest in the welfare of those under him) to
OFFICE-BOY: “ Well, Charles, I’m glad to hear
you won the guinea prize for running at your
Sunday-school picnic! ”
OFFICE-BOY (with some disgust ): “ Yes ; but would
yer believe it? the mean blokes, instead of the
cash, gave me a guinea Bible !”
S.A. democrats, in view of the approach-
ing Council elections, are widely publishing
Sudden Solomon’s recent statement that the
Commonwealth Bill provides a “model for a free
and enlightened people.” The Liberals only ask
for a reduction of the present qualification from
£2O to £l5, as advocated by the Holder Govt,,
and they want to know what the Tories object to,
considering that the Commonwealth Bill, the
“model” aforesaid, provides for adult suffrage for
both Houses!
THE SOFT ANSWER THAT TURNETH
AWAY WRATH.
H E: “I knew I was an ass when I married you.”
S HE: “ And was I one?”
H E: "Not much !”
SHE : " Well, what arc you growling at? You acem
to have had the best of the bargain!”
Deakin lefc down his friend Syme badly
over the appointment to go to England on the
Federation business. Day after day the Age was
barracking for a union of the Liberal party under
Deakin’s leadership. All the time Deakin said
not a word, although he had accepted M‘Lean’s
offer and was packing up his trunks. Some say
that Deakin should have given Syme the wink not
to go on writing him up as a possible leader, but
the eye that Deakin winks with is fixed on the
Commonwealth Parliament now.
Snake-yarn from S.A. Critic :
Significant figures in the Transvaal'Patriotic Fund sub-
scriptions to date : The Register, £2213 4s. ; Advertiser,
£213 18s. lid. Which again shows that the Democrat
never puts his hand in his pocket.
Well, if he did, he very likely would find nothing,
the Fatman’s hand having been there.already.
It is almost incredible that J. C. Neild’s
famous report on Old Age Pensions, which
wrecked the Reid Ministry, and was intended to
be paid for out of the Treasury to the tune of some
£7OO or more, contains not a line relating to
the Maoriland Act; yet Mfioriland is the one State
that has adopted a thorough-working old-age
pension system.
The discussion of the status and emolu-
ments of State Governors at the Premiers’ Con-
ference will not carry the question to a conclusion.
It is essentially a question for people and Parlia-
ment to determine, and Premiers, no matter what
their opinions, count for only one vote each in the
matter. Canada elects its State Governors, which
should be a valuable hint.
The Cow-Shaking Government of N.S.W.
has now become a dealer in anonymous letters, an
evesdropper and listener at key-holes, and a
general bearer of small tales and gossip. Its
latest proceeding has been to hold an official in-
quiry into charges of “disloyalty” laid against a
South Coast teacher by an anonymous correspon-
dent. The accusations were found to be wholly
groundless. The average citizen, however loyal
he may be, and however much he may admire the
loyalty of his Cow-Shaking Government, will soon
begin to despise the undignified busybodies who
fuss around with anonymous communications in
this fashion.
Horrible passages in a letter from Private
Hickey of the N.S.W. Contingent, published in
Maitland (N.S.W.) paper:
At Belmont the Boers buried their dead by throwing a
few stones on their bodies, leaving legs and arms exposed.
Some of our chaps put bits of biscuit in their mouths,
pinned the British colors on them, cut their fingers off if
they had a ring worth while ; and one chap having a bad
pair of boots carne across a dead Boer with a good pair,
and quietly exchanged.
The Bulletin devoutly hopes that these yams
about Australian soldiers thus grossly insulting
their dead enemies will be promptly disproved.
No story yet told about the Boers, even by their
worst enemy, sounds more unpleasant than the
above, and if it isn’t true the “loyal ” paper that
publishes it is a disgrace to this country. Will
the military authorities hold a strict inquiry
into these charges when the Contingent comes
back, and clear Australia from the accusation of
being a land of savages ?
Political med-
ico M'Laurin,
M.L.C., appears
to have bagged
the Cow-Shaking
Ministry as effect-
ually as he did
that of the al-
legedly obstinate
Dibbs. It was
shortly after his
joining the Dibbs
Ministry that
G.R.D. made his
blundering anti-
payment of mem-
bers speech at
Penrith, which
came as a bomb-
shell to his col-
leagues and sup-
porters, and
which helped to
down his party in
1894; and it is an
open secret that
M‘Laurin in-
spired that awful
mistake. Just
now, in the ab-
sence of R. E.
O’Connor, the
M ‘Laurin influ-
ence in the Upper
House is very
great, partly be
cause Mac. is old
and vigorous
amongst a num-
ber of gentlemen
who are old but
not vigorous. He
can always bring
pressure to bear
upon the old ’uns
by threatening to
keep them a wake
an hour longer
than usual. Mere
boys of 50 like
Joh n Hughes, and
youths of 60 like
Pilcher, cannot be
expected to wield
the same power as
one who is a
Scotchman, a septuagenarian, and—a doctor.
Merely to be a doctor is no small advantage in the
House of Many Invalids.
The official list of arrivals and departures
in Westralia for ’99 shows that the province lost
887 men by excess of departures, and gained 940
women by excess of arrivals, making the total in-
crease only 53. In 1898 the increase from this
source was 3953; it was 22,598 in 1898, and
35,949 in 1897. In fact, 1899 was the worst year
since 1888. Evidently the great boom is dead,
and Westralia must needs sober down to dull,
commonplace toil like its neighbors, and depend:
for its growth on the common, ordinary plain in-
fant, with occasional twins to push things along.
In apology for the stinginess of local sur-
face-patriots, Melb. Argus sneers at Sydney
Bushmen’s Fund, as an outcome of wealthy men’s
generosity. Fact is that the moneyed Victorians
who have gassed so much are scarcely represented'
in the various funds; even Mayor M‘Eaeham,
with his brand-new title, hasn’t done anything
astonishing in the way of cash. The best test of
patriotism would be a man-to-man collection in.
Legislative Council, Assembly, and City Corpora-
tion ; if the first-mentioned body couldn’t pan out
£20,000 at least it should be put under the public
ban and curse for rank disloyalty.
The “ loyal ” papers of Australia continue
to print letters from soldiers in South Africa
containing weird charges of brutality against.
British and Australian soldiers, and the loyal
public reads them without, apparently, even
realising that they are weird, and without a
word of protest. For instance, this is from Mel-
bourne Argus
Some of the Boers are glad to be taken, because they
don’t want to fight, but one of the generals said to his
officers : “You are taking too many prisoners. I hope
you understand me.” This means no quarter for the
Boers.
If The Bulletin even hinted that a British
general had given orders, directly Or indirectly, to
introduce the methods of African savagery into a
war between white races, it would have been
cursed by the loyal push from one end of Austra-
lia to another as a Boer emissary or something of
the sort. Yet the loyal Argus prints this shud-
dersome slander without turning a hair. And so
far not a voice has been raised in protest. Has
Britain no friends in Australia ?
A strange and dreadful loyalist, signing
h’mself “ John Bull,” writes to Rockhampton (Q.)
Morning Bulletin to groan about the attitude of
the Worker and of this paper. He says among
other things:
They have always depended on the Power they curse for
sustenance, and now they bite the hand that gives.
The frantic Jingo has got things upside-down in
his haste. No democratic paper in this country
gets any sustenance from the Power in question,
and the “ hand that gives ” is too economical to
give a penny. But the present Bulletin writer
is pleased to say that the British Government has
depended on him for sustenance to some extent,
and his hand has given it a good deal of money.
At least, in earlier days, when he lived in Eng-
land, that Government had him for over £lOO in
stamp-duty in one lump, and it didn’t seem in the
least grateful. It actually tried to make the bill
more. After sustaining the British Government
in this liberal fashion, he claims the right to criti-
cise his dependent whenever he feels like it.
FREE SPEECH.
The right to say the pretty thing
That pleases fool, and pimp, and king.
The speech is free whate’er befall;
The soul is tongue-tied, that is all.


SOME
PIANO
PONT’S
DON’T choose .an old second-
hand piano because it is pre-
sumably cheap, however
strongly tempted to do so. It
will be the dearest you can
buy, because it will always
need expensive repairs.
DON’T expect your child to
become even a moderately good
player if you give him or her
an instrument with a worn-out
mechanism to practise upon•
you will expect the impossible.
DON’T be misled by the
attractive advertisement of the
“ newspaper widow ” or the
kindly disposed person in dis-
tressed circumstances who have
a piano to dispose of.
DON’T choose a piano with
a poor, thin, wiry tone that
becomes worse and worse in
the coui-se of time. When
buying remember
these DONT’S.
HOW TO
CHOOSE A
PIANO
Come to an old established
house with a reputation to
maintain—in short, come to
PALING’S, say how much you
are disposed to pay for an
instrument, and we will recom-
mend you the best for the
money and guarantee it, too,
and we will tell you about our
easy terms.
If you wish for an art crea-
tion by “ Steinway,” it is here.
Perhaps you do not want to
aim so high ; well, we have the
Feurich, Brinsmead, Lipp,
. Victor and Belling Pianos.
They are all good in their
respective grades, and specially
constructed to meet Colonial
requirements as to climatic
changes, <fcc. Come and see
them side by side in our
artistic show-rooms.
VIOLINS
BANJOS
GUITARS
Paling’s third floor is largely
stocked with Violins, Banjos,
Guitars, Mandolins and all
other stringed instruments.
The demand for these instru-
ments is growing daily, and we
are, as usual, to the fore with
violins for beginners at really
nominal prices. All fittings
for same at proportionately
cheap rates. We also stock
violins suitable for artists and
solo players.
Banjos and Guitars are not
perhaps used for classical
music, but they help to while
away many a pleasant hour
with some catchy and popular
airs. We stock the famous
“Washburns”; they are the
best procurable. We will send
prices upon application.
BRASS
BAND
INSTRUMENTS
From the baby Eb Cornet
to the giant Bombardon or
Circular Bass. We are Sole
Agents for-Besson, Boosey and
Couesnon.
We will give you quotations
for large or small bands ; we
can advise you as to the best
combination of instruments.
Our band goods are imported
direct from the makers, and,
as we buy very largely, we are
in a position to offer them at
lowest possible prices—quality
not sacrificed. A good
instrument always
has its cash equiva-
lent.
Call or write to us for cata-
logues and quotations for any-
thing and everything musical.
You can save money if you
deal at Paling’s.
PALING’S
The Leading:
PALING’S
Importers of
PALING’S
Musical Instruments
338 George-st., Sydney
Brisbane and Newcastle
'
H ■■■
£
.;>•' W*
' J
.•• - •-' / ‘ • £ "~‘ •
B9M
- .
. j
Wi
m
’?&**)
YM
WM,., ■<.’;.
WXCtf
&**s&
fy
■
rpHIS photograph ot the camel laden with typewriters on the goldfields of Westralia affords picturesque evidence
-*■ ol the push and penetration of the United Typewriter and Supplies 00. Illustrated Catalogues posted on
application to any of the undermentioned addresses.
Upited Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
114 PITT ST., SYDNEY ; 362 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE ; BARRACK ST., PERTH, W.A.
Agencies— Queensland : Webster & Co., Brisbane. Adelaide: Reeves & Co., King William-street. Hobart:
Walch & Sons. Launceston : Hedley ; Button. Auckland : J. H. Cohvill, Queen-street. Dunedin : Hayward and
Garratt, Princes-st. Wellington : W. R. Whyte, 12 Featherstone-st. Christchurch :J. O. Barnard, Hereford-st
Victorian politicians comment in a very
uncomplimentary style on Chamberlain’s despatch
recommending the Australian Governments to
favor the Eastern Extension Co.’s proposed new
cable in opposition to the Pacific State-owned
cable. This is not the first time Chamberlain has
used his official position in the interests of British
capitalists at the expense of Australia. He did
the same over the New Guinea land grab.
One of the loyal gentry, who raised a
company of Yeomanry for Boer-hunting, was The
Bulletin’s old, unhonored acquaintance, Bob
Sutton. But Bob’s little co. appears to have been
wound-up, “owing to difficulties with the War
Office.” _R. S. Sevier, the modern yeoman, has
been raising difficulties ever since this journal first
knew him. When he was seeking the bubble
reputation as Bob Sutton, the “English book-
maker” (of Australia) he brought trouble to him-
self and Lord Deerhurst by plugging the nose of
that son of a belted earl in a Melbourne pub.
Also, he troubled the pretty little Australian wife
who divorced him. Then he went back to his
native land and married the Marquis of Ailes-
bury’s sister, and somehow the lady’s name got
into the law reports owing to difficulties with her
previous sweetheart and some old love letters, and
presently R. S. Sevier, Esq,, started a long series
of difficulties with his creditors. Furthermore,
Lord Deerhurst aforesaid got into difficulty with
his creditors in consequence, perhaps, of the nose-
plugginghe had received from fatal Bob in days of
old. Everything that is touched by such as
Sutton turns to trouble seemingly. If he persists
in associating himself with Patriotism and all that
sort of thing, the Empire had better prepare for
the worst.
Higgins, M.L.A. (Vic.), is trying to dig
out the details of an unsavoury military scandal.
Some time ago Victoria wasted its substance in
re-arming its troops with a hopelessly obsolete
rifle —one which the shocked British authorities
promptly took from them when they and the
venerable blunderbusses trotted ashore at the
Cape. The weapon was selected by an alleged
committee of experts in London, and it now
transpires that some members of the committee
were shareholders in the concern which worked off
this dead stock on a trusting province.
War-fever seems still to rage high over in
Dunedin, Maoriland. Every week or so a meet-
ing is held, and Sandy heaves his braw self upon
the platform to declare that the Contingent Fund
has now readied the sum of something-or-other
thousand pounds seven shillings and sixpence half-
penny. (That half-penny is direfully Scotch.)
Then the community shakes itself by the hand for
being so generous, entirely oblivious of the psycho-
logical fact that when a community gives largely
to one form of charity it simply means that other
forms of charity receive less than their share.
When Tammas gives his sixpence to the conting-
ent, it doesn’t mean a whisky the less to Domnas,
it means that Tammas contrives not to see the
plate next Sawbath when collections are being
made for the Distressed Washerwoman’s Fund, or
some other thing to that effect. The lady who
shakes her tambourine at street corners is be-
coming an institution and receives favorable men-
tion ; but the Maoriland platform-orator who
praised the matrons of his district because they
“ went on the streets in aid of the Contingent
Fund,” will suddenly find himself dead some day,
and never know the reason why.
fc.H.k* "
urue
yi&yo°
tne
GaV* urcS
the
for
tut l triumph
b66 \ ditia
men
c ®a° 0 >
first three
C^o°>
stt-rs
r £he
"In 8.d.-^S,
AS
I
""' "T douto* 11
W ith«> u * t re iia»» e
ar : and ««*
VNf
fa9 t cst cS ade ; oveWO ,tevev
ci-nce
The flunlop pneumatic Tyre go. of Australia [ld
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. ——
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
c#>
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
3xr.s,"w.
lUontdepieteD.sfa|.Co.,|;td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
§ SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
The py Mutual [ife
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligli and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
24:7 George Street ( facir, i- rßrid - e st) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM I'ORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. o/ London.
Fidelity Guarantees. lOmp. Giabilty.
Accidents, Tyjdioid, Diphtheria, e<e.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peaciiey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. ClySe j Brisbane, J. G. Hassall i Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Perth, West A.ustralia.
SPLENDID BUILDING BLOCKS,
50 x 150, only £5 each, on easy terms, no
interest. Title, Torrens’ Act. Adjoining Bishop
Gibney’s Estate and the Perth Commonage.
Plans post free from
ERNEST C. Y. BROUGHTON,
Auctioneer & Sworn Valuator under the R.P. Act,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Queensland Smelting (Jompg.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland.
Loi)doi) & Lancashire
Fire Insurance company.
LIBERAL -- - PROMPT -- - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New lr°a u nch7 ales } 95 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors—John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
PCRCY PHILLIPS,
~Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING-, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
'-THE-i
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman ; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, 12,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765 - assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses— equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
t TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Sat., Feb. 10, 12 Noon.
-Gabo, Tues., Feb. 13, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Feb. 17, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Sat., Feb. 10, 12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., Feb. 13, 5 p.:
Tyrian, Sat., Feb. 17, 12 Noon.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Sat., Feb. 10, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Sat., Feb. 17, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT i !
GERALDTON V
OAIRNS. &c. (
Lass o’ Gowne, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked throusrh.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. M‘llvvraith, M'Eacharn & 00.
Offices Mutual Life; Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb« TrGst€€s, Cxc^GtorS,
AND
AgQOCY Conjpaoy United,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED... £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP .7 £90,T00 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and 3oth June, 1899 ... £6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A, LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital ... .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (li-12/’991 .. £3,163,938 10 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. VV. 11. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief' Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M‘Nall, R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager; Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
'London Oj]ice : 1 lilsh ops//ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, EC.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEOItGE STREET.
Manager; John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. li. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford wit i agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers ... :.. Exceeds £3,000,000.
Bates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
file Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director —JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ....£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350,000
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
SYDNEY MABKET:
The Principal Sellinff Centre in Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-'
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
m- MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDS BROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCHARD & CO.
J. C. YOUNG & CO.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Lmrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and A 1 my.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
PERSIC, 11,984 tons, February.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AFRIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels. . .
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole w idth of sli p.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
England via America
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samca), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
MARIPOSA
MOANA
ALAMEDA
Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at 1 p.m.
3158 Feb. 14
4000 March 14
3158 April 11
Leave
Auckland.
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
Feb. 19 March
March 19 April
April 16 May
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,.
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 16 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
N.D.L.
ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350,000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
‘TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
OPALS • PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
...0F...
Opals, Pearls Sapphires
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL VALUE GIVEN.
A. B€NJAMltTapd SONS,
285 a Little Collins St-, Melbourne-
SOME FACTS -
-?■
WHENEVER you see
a man who holds
up his head—whose eyes
are bright—whose step
is elastic —who goes down
the street with every
appearance of owning at
least half the colony—
you can, depend upon it
he is wearing an O.P.C.
SUSPENSORY. Any
kind will do some good.
An 0.P.0. SUSPEN-
SORY will do the most
good. After you wear
one don’t be selfish,
don’t keep the good
news of the source of
your health and strength
to yourself. Tell your
friends about it. Let all
of us be real men together
far - Recommended by the
Medical Profession through-
out the world.
Send for Booklet, FREE.
PRICES.
No. 2—0.P.C., Lisle Sack, Elastic Bands .. . , 5/-
No. 3 „ Silk „ „ .. .. 7/-
No. 4 ~ ' » Silk ~ .. .. 9/-
No! 5 ~ Fancy ~ ~ Fancy Silk Elastic Bands 12/6
Three Sizes—Large, Medium, and Small.
OF ALL CHEMISTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,
or by post, under plain sealed cover, on Receipt, of Price.
!*- Sold under a positive guarantee to give satisfaction.
BAUER & BLACK, Manufacturers, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Australasian /
Office : -
117 Clarence-st., Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP COi
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. All inga, Friday, Feb. 9.
S.S. Wollowra.-Sat., Feb. 10.
(Without Transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Maranoa, Frid., Feb. 9.
For BRISBANE >-S.S. Adelaide. Sat.. Feb. 10.
NOTE.—This steamer running under contract with the
Queensland Government for the carriage of refrigerated
cargo will maintain a regular weekly fast service between
Sydney and Brisbane, and will connect with the P. and O.
and Orient steamers. The attention of passengers is
directed to this opportunity of quick transit between
Sydney and Brisbane. The ADELAIDE is a first-class pas-
senger steamer, all cabins containing only two berths.
j ßest Cheapest Jttoute to Goldfields .
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
G. S. YUILL & CO., Ltd., Agents, 6 Bridge St. Sydney.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville,.Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY And BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Norrnanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
■Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
•VICTORIA . 6527 E. Crewe
...! April i
* Proceeding via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAWNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
Huddart, parker § go’s ||ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Pares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
CHINA and. JAPAN.
EASTERN and AUSTRALIAN S.S. COMPANY, Ltd.
The following favorite Passenger Steamers will sail
from Sydney as under for HONGKONG and JAPAN, via
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-sLreet, Sydney.
ffl‘|luiraith, go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quota! ions, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn & Co P.cprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
1 -*• * *■* - . —; !«.■■* -
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6700 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,.
| will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
( Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
I including table wines.
1 RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance,'
in landing andpassirig their luggage through the Customs,
| etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by Pi arid Q.
steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
i Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent


~ “ generally known how common
rabbits are m immediate neighbourhood of Sydney,
lo be seen rather numerously every morning on
lawn, of a house at Rose Bay, common brown
bunnies, hard at work scratching until 6 o’clock or
so sends them into retirement for the day.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles* Made in London**
The essence of Lord Charles Beresford’s
book on China:—•
There is not a single spot or direction in China to which
one can point and say, “ Here is improvement, promise,
reform. The Emperor’s hasty but well-meant edicts of
reform cost him his influence. The progressive mandarins
have all been thrust from office. Corruption is the atmos-
phere in which official China lives and moves. An inter-
view with the Empress Dowager costs £lOOO for the chief
eunuch who is a sham eunuch! A degraded viceroy
pays £20,000 for his reinstatement. The Chinaman in
charge of the great arsenal at Tientsin receives a salary of
£2l a month. The arsenals at Canton and Nanking are
making gingalls cannon Oft. long fired from men’s
shoulders. Everywhere “enormous sums of money are
bemg expended upon war material that in most cases is
absolutely useless.” All executive and administrative
posts are still given to men who pass examinations in the
Chinese classics. Many troops are regularly drilled with
bows and arrows. One General met by Lord Charles re-
ceives pay for 10,000 men. He has actually 800,-and on
inspection day he fills up his ranks with coolies hired at
"f: * ™ e inspector being, of course, bribed to say
that he has found the army in good order. The Grand
Uanal is dry for many miles during four months of the
year. Piracy is rampant and increasing. Whole districts
—indeed, provinces—are devastated by rebellion, which
with mP ena l ® overnmen t is utterly powerless to cope
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
ffo do son’s
Tales of Medical Students.
By Dr. Hodgson, of Sydney. Just Issued.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, 3s. 6d. Post Free, 4a.
Wholesale Agents; Edwards, Dunlop & 00., Sydney.
66
DOWRIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
99
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
DSFIELDS
BRAIN & NERVE PILLS
A PERFECT REGENERATOR OF THE VITAL POWERS.
Price, 2s. 6d.; Postage, 2d.
Sole Agents:
WASHINGTON H SOUL & CO.,
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. NEWMAN, 175 & 177 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE,
SLEEVE LINKS.
In Sterling Silver, 9-ct. Gord and 15-ct* Gold*
The Drawings
are all
Actual Size.
No. i.
Silver - £0 4 6
g-ct. Gold 0 15 0
16-ct. Gold l a 8
No. 2.
Silver - £0 4
g-ct. Gold 0 16
il-ct. Gold 1 7
No. y.
Sifter . £0 4 6,
9-ct. Gold 0 16 6;
Gold x a a
Links may be had
with either Chain or
Ban Connections.
No. 4.
Silver - -£0 5 0
g-ct. Gold - 1 0 0
15-ct. Gold • 17 0
No. 8.
Silver - £0 0
g-ct. Gold - 1 0
15-ct. Gold • 110
No. i*.
Silver - -£0 0 8
g-ct. Gold - 1 2 6
5-ct. Gold • 115 0
No. i(S.
Silver - -£0 0 6
g-ct. Gold .15 0
15-ct. Gold • 2 0 0
No. ao.
Silver - - £0 7 6
g-ct. Gold - 17 6
15-ct. Gold - 2 6 0
No. 5.
Silver .'.£060
g-ct. Gold . 1 0 0
15-ct. Gold « 17 0
No.g.
Silver • .000
g-ct. Gold • 10 0
15-ct. Gold • 110 0
4 No. ij.
Silver - -£OOO
g-ct. Gold « 10 0
i5-ct. Gold • 115 0
i a
No. 17,
Silver • -£OOQ
g-ct. Gold -15 0
15-ct, Gold • 2 5 0
No, *?.
Silver - .£076
g-ct. Gold .15 0
15-ct. Gold . 2 0 0
No. 9.
Silver - .£oo®
g-ct. Gold * 10 0,
Gold « 110 a
N
No, xo.
Silver - *o6®
g-ct. Gold ,» 12®
tj-ct. Gold « 113, Q
. No. 14.
Silver . -£o7®
g-ct. Gold ' 12®
ij-Ct. Gold ' IIV 0
No. 18.
Silver - '£oo®
g-ct. Gold « 1 5 Q
15-ct, Gold • IQ®
No. 22.
Opals or Turquoise,
•ct. Gold - £1 15 0
ct. Gold - 215 0
No. ji
Silver- .£066
g-ct. Gold * 10 0
15-ct- Gold • 110 0
No. it.
Silver - .066
g-ct. Gold ..126
13-ct. Gold 1 16 0
No. 15.
Silver - -£0 7 6
g-ct. Gold .1 5 0
13-ct.. Gold • 3, 0. 0,
No. ig.
Silver - «£066
'g-Ot. Gold .110
13-ct. Gold • 115 0
No. 23.
Opals, Rubies or Sapphires.
15-ct. Gold - £4 10 0
Diamonds,
13-ct. Gold - £7 10 0
H. NEWMAN,
175 and 177 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE*
The Cheapest House in Australia for
HIGH-CLASS JEWELLERY,
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
Price, <£7.
& THIS MACHINE
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s 5 Needles, Is 6d.
J3end for New Illustrated List— FREE.
Also on Sale—
-1 Edison Cinematographs complete and 10
Films, £5O,
1 Cinematographe and 10 Films, £35,
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune for a
smart man.
2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Kay Outfits, complete.
Carriage Paid.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EDISON ELECTRIC COMPANY
Removed to 1 and 3 Rowe Street. (120 PITT STREET), SYDNEY (ONLY).
IV. J. N. Oldershaw, Manager, Nearly opposite G.P.O.
ure Jams c
Assorted kinds in 1 lb. Flat Tins.
Manufacturers 3
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office/~9 & 10, Gt. Tower Street, London, E.C.
fsd
fringes,
JtfeWural Curly, from &f 0 aagfe.
iPLAITS and TAILS,
tZOin. lone, 6/8. all real hole.
CUTTINGS A COMBIU#
up, 2/6 per 02.
We are the cneapeitin Ag*
trail a for all Hair Work..
Send Color of Uair.>^
W. H. Wigzsll}
■ 110 William Street.
corner of Palmer-atreet,
SYDNEY..
■Coble Tram will stop at Door..
Send stamps for full Price LisV''
T*w at >n fiqoßtiT.o rfwp
f
WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulated and Guaranteed 1 year, 2,6.
Best quality new English Mainsprings, 2/6.
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Keyless Silver Lever Watches.
Accurate timekeepers. Guaranteed 5 years. 25/-
D. S. Mair for Gent’s Silver Double Alberts. 6/6
7/6, 8,6, 9/6. English Hall-marked.
D. S. Mair for Ladies’ 5-stone Brilliant Diatrend
Bing. £4los. 18-carat Gold. Hall-marked.
Note address— George Street, Sydney.
I’ll Try It;
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarins l
Posted (undercover)
to am-part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
Sole Agents:
m
VI
The Result .
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st,, Sydney
0
8
Jtc
/ Cur*s all EYE
/Disorders. Get a genuine
/ pot from any Chemist.
/ J Proprietor:- STEPHEN GREEN,
Lambeth Rd., London, S.EL
// Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
/ Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
/ should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYL.;EY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
<s>
E. V.FINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants & Importers.
Our Specialities are— Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapings, Matting,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.s.w. aoents: Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Xasjiasian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd.. Hobart.
The Desert Duel.
Two and two—they lay them down
Underneath the nighest trees;
Scant of breath and glad of death,
Worn of hoof and weak of knees;
Grim the Fates above them frown,
While the dumb brutes lay them down.
Grim the Fates and fierce the sky !
Life and Drought, with sword and shield
Near and far, in ancient war,
Fight the fight where Life must yield—
Vanquished yield, or turn and fly •
So the dumb brutes sink and die.
A wind goes by—Wherefore, O Wind,
Ihe slaughter-sword, the red assault?
iloaiismr steals, and silent wheels
mu j brutal sun in heaven’s vault:
lhe dull-red desert, scarred and lined
With arid creeks, is dumb and blind.
RODERIC QUINN.


THE RECORD of the past makes
the MASSEY-HARRIS the Bicycle of the future.
Our fifty-three years of experience and fair
dealing is the guarantee.
Factories—Toronto. Canada. New Sowth I VV ales H eadquarters—Sydney
Branches —Melbourne, Sydney, ppneiiu, Brisbane, Adelaide.
A ar # »iicies almost everywhere Art CalttJ posted free on application.
N.S.W. BRANCH: 885 GEORGE STJtEjET, Opposite Strand Arcade.
With the holiday season coming on, and num-
bers of people either going themselves or sending their
families to the mountains, the enterprising burglars’ har-
vest has begun. Provident people, however, are provid-
ing against his visits by storing their valuables—plate,
jewellery, papers, &c.—at the Sydney Safe Deposit, Ash-
street (hack of Paling’s), and business there is proportion-
ately brisk. We would recommend Bulletin readers to
call'and inspect the massive vaults, and ascertain terms
for storage. Safes may now be rented upon reduced
terms, and boxes are received for storage at very moder-
ate rates.*
•'• * *
Owing to a rapid increase of business the DurilOp
Pneumatic Tyre Co. Ltd., has found it necessary to re-
move to larger premises. Clients are requested to address
orders to 150 Clarence-street, instead of 486 Kent-street,
as heretofore.*
Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
li>fki'oza CoOgb-
'mK TSi 'TI VZ? f
it v: hz'U.m:
sd
T{ed 7}ird Quality.
Found only on
1900 Model
Red Bird?.
A high-grade bicycle must be high-grade in all parts; but how many cycles
can stand a really close inspection. Here is one point! Examine thejr
pedals and you will find them cheap rattle-traps riveted and pressed to-
gether. Compare them with the Red Bird pedal, with its solid steel centre
and corrugated, indestructible side plates which may be adjusted to lit the
Shoe. Ours cost twice as much as other pedals to make; hut cost isn’t
taken into consideration in building Red Birds,
Manufactured, Sc
Factories
ild and Guaranteed by
Che 6cold Bicycle Co., £td,
Australasian Branches : 64 King-st., Sydney, Head Office in Austnaua.
Brantford, Canada.
Hgeni? everywhere.
261 CouiNS-ST., Melbourne, Vic
Edward-st. Brisbane. Q.
VICTORIA-BT., Wellington, N.Z.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
SPORTING NOTIONS.
■ : The bowling in the recent interprovincial
and Australian XI. v. Rest of Australia cricket-matches, at
Sydney was only of very ordinary merit, and there’s no
doubt a few good new bowlers will need to be raked up
before the next British team arrives. New left-handers
Saunders and M Beth, who are understood in a vajme
kind of way to have done great work, come out of the
interprovincial match with the very poor respective
records of 5 for 220 and 6 for 164. Hugh Trumble’s
average, despite excellent bowling in the second innings,
is 6 for 197 ; and Mary Ann Noble, with all his awful care
and everlasting off-theory, only gathered in 9 for 157—and
it’s the best average of the match. In collecting 6 for 90
against the Aus. XI. first innings Saunders put up a good
effort, and he s no doubt the better of the two left-handers,
but there’s too much sameness in his trundling. Howell
and Jones have gone off, Pye bowls “ tripe,” and Laver
and Hopkins only wheel up very ordinary stuff. Wanted,
a good slow break bowler.
**‘ * •
“ W.”r With the exception of, perhaps,
Trumper, Noble is undoubtedly the greatest batsman in
N.S.W. Though not the dashing bat he was, he is sound
and a real trier. His recent 155 against Vic. won that
match for N.S.W., and his 94, at the expense of the Rest
of Australia, alone saved the Australian Eleven first
innings total from looking ridiculous.
* * * *
Stucky, the sturdy little smiter from East
Melbourne, is already a big favorite with the Sydney
cricket crowd. Although hardly up to the minimum
volunteer height, he is as plucky as a bull-dog ant, and
cracks everything hard. In hi's last three innings on
Sydney Cricket Ground he has knocked up 54, 53 and 88
—all by free, slashing batting.
• * • •
“ W.”: In heaping up 73 for the Rest of Aus-
tralia v. Australian XI., on Saturday, “ Grunnny ” Graham
batted right up to his. form of a few years back. He
calmly walked out of his crease. as of old and made his
own length for the .well-pitched ones, and pulled the full
or short ones to the leg-fence. With the exception of
Graham himself, occasionally, there are no batsmen like
the Graham of old now.
• • • »
Few Australian cricketers have been given more
nick-names by the crowd than huge stonewaller Alick
Mackenzie. “ Helpless Alick,” “ Old Flatfoot” (he shares
that one with Premier Lyne), “ The Corpse,” and “ Feet ”
are only some of ’em. The crowd have also been struck
by “Mary Ann” Noble’s overgrown understandings.
When Hill was fielding in the outfield on Sat. one of the
push pointed to said Mary Ann and asked who he was,
and Clem informed him. “ I thought it was ’im by his
flamin’ great hoof,” answered the pushite calmly.
* * * *
A Croweater writes : “ Not much doubt that the
best team wins the Sheffield shield this season. N.S.W.
has made 2541 runs lor 60 wickets, against her opponents
1765 for 73 wickets. N.S. Wales’ batting has been won-
derfully consistent in every engagement, and her bowling
is quite equal to that of Victoria, although the latter pro-
vince’s eleven has surpassed in the fielding. S.A. suffers
from want of young players, F. Hack being the only
junior tried who looks like permanently remaining in big
matches. The shield-matches leave a doubt as to which is
the best all-round player in Australia, Noble or Trumble.
Noble’s fine batting-record, and the fact that he is
the best point in Australia, perhaps place him ahead
of the big yictorian. The Sheffield shield has been
going for seven years. ' Fourteen players have made over
1000 runs in Shield 'matches, and it is significant
that Reedmah, the-consistent S.A. player, is the only one
of the number who has not been to England. Noble
heads the batting with an average of 55 for 26 completed,
having made 1447 runs, but Iredale, who is third, has
made 2120 runs. He is the only Australian who has made
over 2000 in Sheffield contests. Turner is at the top of
the bowling with 73 wickets, average 19 each, but Trum-
ble has captured 131 and M’Kibbin 137, each averaging 20
runs per wicket. The Sheffield contests for the seven
years show what a splendid man Hugh Trumble has been
to Australia. Good old Giffen has made 1952 runs and
taken 171 wickets.”
* * * *
“ B.”: Went to see a cricket match (Balranald v.
Oxley) at Oxley t’other-day. Drove 65 miles ; temperature
116 in water-bag. Play commenced noon, and adjourned
at 12.30 in consequence of terrific dust. Resumed play
when temporary lull'took place-.' During afternoon
players entirely invisible to occupants of bush pavilion,
and scorers had to stand alongside batsmen to record
strikes. Leather lost in whirlwinds several times. Wind
increased; stumps drawn 4.30 owing to light being
obscured by dust. Banquet in bush pub. in evening, dust
awful. Three dust-storms during night. Drove back 65
miles in dust next day. Lost the road through specially
violent dust-storm. Temperature 117 in water-bag.
* * » *
At Warwick Farm, on Saturday, backers got
back some of their Randwick losses, but only a little.
Only one real first favorite got home, Ferryman, a leggy
bay Gozo gelding, who went out at 5 to 4 for the Farm
Stakes, and won with his head in the air. The chestnut
Gibraltar gelding, The Watchdog, had no trouble in
gathering in the Flying. Handicap for “ Bill ” Forrester,
from Belle Isle and Amourette. The latter started first
choice, but got her backers their cash later on by lumping
11.2 to the van in the Welter. For the Stewards’ Mile the
consistent California and inconsistent Undaunted, both
well-backed, dead-heated after a great battle over the last
100yds., the favorite, Rock of Ages, getting lost in'the
crush. The two Carbine mares, Carberra and Fortune,
were the Warwick Handicap favorites, and they were the
two last to pass the judge. The sturdy brown Fairy
Prince, won by a head from Bombshell, Eulong a neck
away.
_ * * ... * •
“Tote”: Early last week betting shops were
rushed for Warwick Farm double—Saraswati and War
God—and about £lOOO taken. Report said money was for
owner Bill Forrester. Later Saraswati developed a cold.
Then the other horse from the same stable, Watchdog,
was coupled with War God for £5OO. Going to
the. course by train' on Saturday, .War God got
down in his box and suffered injuries that made it
impossible for him to start. Forrester delayed the
elimination of Saraswati .so long that he was fined
£5 for late scratching. The Watchdog won the first leg
Of the double, and, all being well, War God’s chance of
landing the other end would have looked rosy. Writer
hasn’t nihch sympathy with Forrester. War God has been
wound-up for a long time, and, on his track form, might
have got away with any one or more of the Summer plums
and started at a remunerative price, but he was always
among the eleventh-hour scratchings, thus greasing to the
full that very much fatted sow, the double layer.
* * * ♦
Tote dividends at A.R.C. (S.A.) Summer meeting
—Saturday—should win over a few thousand more sup-
porters for the machine. Joanna (Mo'gill Welter) paid £3l
13s. for each sov.—£9so invested. Celia (Licensed Vic-
tuallers’, H miles) paid £l6 65.—£1577 invested. The
Duke (Torrens Steeple) paid £8 35.—£1007 invested. Royal
Artillery (Richmond Park Stakes) paid £ll6s. —£1286 15s.
invested. Last capped all, and created a sensation. Ant-
arctic (Brown Hill Handicap) paid £l2B 165.—£1218 10s.
invested. Can’t get half that • price for a double on two
big race? at Randwick these times.
« * * *
Whisperers are busily breathing the name of
Scorn as a “ dead bird ” for the Australian Cup, so it
seems natural to suppose that W. R. Wilson has got some-
thing else in view for the event. He who breathes
about dead birds is mostly wrong. Not but what Scorn
gave one or two suggestions of brilliant form in the races
he didn’t win at the V.R.O. Spring meeting.
* * * *
The N.S.W. contingent of trainers at V.A.T.O.
Meeting commencing to-day is short,of a few who never
missed before. Most prominent of these are “ Oxy’s ”
man, Mark Thompson, Allsop, Joe Burton, Tom Lamond
and Harry Raynor. Ike Earnshaw took a useful string
over with the Newmarket winner among them—Stand Off
or Henry. In Parthian, Dandy, Webbe, Argyle, Mist,
ROBERT B. GRAIG (Balmain), 220 yds.
Champion of Australasia, and winner of the
300yds. championship of N.S.W. last Saturday.
Photo, Brand.
Welfare, and Murrabrine, young “ Billy ” Kelso has a lot
that will render good accounts of themselves, and the
first-named may give the Australian Cup a great shaking,
despite the presence of Merriwee and Seahorse. Mora,
Blue Cap, Royal Purple and Prince Carbine form Teddy
Knight’s little lot, and a pretty solid little lot they are too.
Dick O’Connor has them in charge. Teddy make? no
secret of his conviction that Mora has a big chapce in the
great 2} miles event, but the noble army of punters are
not likely to tumble over each other in an effort to “ get
on " after their experiences of the past few months.
* * * •
Texas Jack sports on Brisbane Cricket Ground,
Saturday, attracted 4000 people. Series of horses versus
cycle races were very interesting. Jack had tbe use of
four nags, while crack Q. cyclist, Mick Healy, was allowed
six pacemakers—J. Walne among them. Horse won the
mile easily in 2.12. Same result occurred in 2 miles event.
Time 4.4s—Healy 4 l-ssec. slower. Buck-jumping com-
petition supplied a lot of fun. One fractious brute plunged
fair on to his head and pegged out straight away. All con-
testants rode well. Vifevers got the money, but Weaver
and King seemed to be as good. Later, in 3 miles race,
Texas Jack’s prad ran into and smashed a bench on the
side, lacerating his stifle badly. If such a programme
could always be made sure of Spanish bull-figlits wouldn’t
be in it: .
• • * •
M. bruiser Otto Cribb has a match on with
Ned Burden at Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney) to-night
(Saturday). This brings Otto a rung or two higher up the
pug-ladder than he has yet risen. Burden, two years
since, was in the running for the lightweight champion-
ship of the continent. Challenges from him to Herb
M’Kell and others who claimed the title were religiously
ignored. Few know that Cribb can fight at the light-
weight limit (10st.). Recently old-man Jim Barron
hurled defiance at all Australians in that division, and
Cribb at once accepted, so that it is likely they’ll come to-
gether shortly. Otto, after this week, will have engage-
ments pending with. 12st. M‘Coll, of Armidale (N.S.W.),
and an unknown at St. Peters (Sydney). He says he’d fight
twice a week if the clubs would stand it.
» *
Sydney pug-clubs (Golden Gate and Metropoli-
tan) are at outs and don't bruise in the same yard.
Youngest of the two (Metrop.) has seized upon same
nights (Wednesday and Saturday) as the opposition show,
and started with an offer of £4O for 8.7 novice men.
Golden Gate followed suit. Ere this appears in type the
fun will be at its height. Boxers are sure to benefit con-
siderably by this cut-throat business, and get a bigger and
fairer whack of the dollars raked in. Opposition’s the
life of trade, saith the trader whose commodity is stoush
* * * *
N. champion 7-stoner, Bert Weekes, had
another soft snap at Metropolitan A.C. (Sydney) last
week. He and Fitzpatrick fought for a fair purse .and a
side wager. Fitz. wasn’t in it at any period, though he
tried hard and took a lot of assault and battery. At the
close of the ninth round the tatter was aimed heaven-
wards on his account, which is our new patent way of
■saying that Fitz. skied the rag, full up to the brim of
standing before an opponent who was all legs and wings,
and being concussed without a hope of doing any con-
cussion himself. Bert never let Fitz. notch a point all
through, and yet several in the crowd called it a good
fight—yes, a good fight of the Napier-Hegarty description,
•one man doing all the fighting.
* * * *
“ Pug.”: Be recent Napier-Tim Hegarty boxing
fiasco, at Sydney Opera House. Said now that Napier’s
second (Mick Dunn) advised him to keep away from the
Melbourne crack during the first 10 rounds—hence
Hughie’s poor showing. Probably-it would have been
better had Mick Dunn advised his man to keep away from
Hegarty altogether. Many a pug. has lost a big fight
through altering his methods on the advice of seconds.
How would a cricketer, a rower, or a swimmer get on if
he changed his style of doing the thing, at the last
moment, on somebody’s advice? Griffo fought in a
manner peculiarly his own ; fancy him adopting different
tactics at the suggestion of a second 1 Black Peter Jack-
son never got pointers in his corner—he wouldn’t have
listened to them. “I fight my own way,” said Peter,
“ and don’t want any other man’s ideas.”
* * 4* *
“ Ware-Hawk ”: Looks as if there’s something
that wants explaining in connection with the Felix-
Doherty negotiations for a second fight. Black Felix’s
black manager, Billy M’Clain, took his £5O deposit down
t’other day, though Doherty had covered it. Up to then
things seemed to shape well for another meeting.
Mr. M’Clain finds he is too busily engaged with
his professional duties to give the ring much attention.
He had his “ professional duties,” as a member of the
M’Adoo troupe, to look after before, yet the ring was
given a deal of attention, and the various Australasian
sporting papers deluged with high falutin’ cartels over
M’Clain’s signature, as “ manager for the present heavy-
weight champion of the provinces.” M’Clain thought he
had unearthed a marvel in something we had known all
about for years, but didn’t place extra much value upon.
Wonder if ink-hued Peter will really be taken to America,
to meet world-champion Jeffries for that fabulous purse
■and side wager.
* * * •
Crack lightweight pug, “Cocker” Tweedie,
and Jim Gaffney are liberally slangwhanging each other
■over a match that didn’t take place. Gaffney says Tweedie
wanted to square him to “throw it”—the consideration
being 60 per cent, of the purse—and -though he (Gaffney)
pretended to agree, he nevertheless made up his mind to
win—a task which, to his way of thinking, was akin to
“falling off a log,” for Tweedie couldn’t “ brush a bee
from a bucket.” Latter retorts that Gaffney is doing the
“ crawfish act” ; that he wants to get out, and invented the
squaring yarn to that end. Tweedie, whose 12 months in
Yankeedom have converted him into an out-and-out
down-easter, gets back with the statement that Gaffney
has “ cold feet,” is a confirmed “ quitter,' and a
“ squeaker ” of the most pronounced type, and would
sooner creep into a rat-hole and starve than fight.
* * * *
Sydney boxer, lanky, tomato-haired Jim Richard-
son, who tacks 44 0 f Honolulu” on to his name, raised
Cain in a fight at Gateshead (Eng.), latter end of Dec.
He met Jack Thompson in a go, the best of 20 rounds,
before a record house. Jim had a parlous time of it right
from the jump ; nothing but pure grit kept him up. In
the sixth three minutes the referee stopped proceedings
and declared Thompson the winner. Thompson went up
to shake hands wLh the vanquished bruiser, but Jim
wasn’t taking any. He rushed at the referee with blood
in his eye and some of Thompson’s gore on his hands, but
the crowd came between them. .Then the Australian
made a bolt for Thompson, who got home first and
laid his man out.- Jim assumed the, perpendicular
install ter, and was just about to in u P°n
all and sundry with a chair, which he brandished
menacingly when the police took a hand and matters
quietened down. Writer remembers Richardson fight-
ing a savage battle with Pheasant at the old Darlinghurst
Skating Rink (Sydney) eight or nine years ago.' The pair
went for each other like catamounts, and once fell head-
long out of the ring, carrying posts and ropes with them.
Several people in the vicinity had their clothes badly be-
spattered with blood. Richardson won. Prior to leaving
for ’Ome Jim challenged all Australia, but failed to con-
nect. ’He tried South Africa without success, and since
arriving “ down under ” has had several battles, but won
none—albeit he fought a great fight each time.
• • • *
Kid M‘Coy showed how good he is by clean
knocking out Peter Maher in five rounds. Australian
Steve O’Donnell had several tries with Maher, but the
hard-hitting Irishman proved too much for O’Donnell
every time.
• * * •
“Old Timer”: Obit. Marquis of Queensberry
(cabled from ’Ome last Friday). Late files tell that he was
found insensible in bed, at the Raleigh Club, London,
Dec. 18, and carried home in a critical state. At Oxford,
deceased made a name for.himself by getting all over his
contemporary lightweight undergrr.ds. with the gloves.
By-and-by, being a liberal patron of the bruising indus-
try, a new lot of boxing rules had his name appended to
them as a compliment. They were no great shakes, how-
ever, and have been altered and added to until the original
code has almost passed out of existence. The House of
Lords once kicked against the Marquis (John Sholto
Douglas) sitting in its gilded halls ; he blamed Rosebery
for the slight, and publicly challenged him to a thumping
match. Exposure of Oscar Wilde’s objectionable pro-
clivities was brought about through an action Oscar had
against Queensberry, who used language about him on a
post-card, or something of. the kind. Writer remembers
seeing the Marquis, at Foley’s gymnasium (Sydney), years
ago, and didn’t think much of him physically or mentally.
He Was built on wiry lines, and seemed then something
over 40.
* • » *
The belated “ Curse of Deeming ”: Alf. Sped-
ding, well-known as a Carlton footballer, died last week
in Melbourne, after five years of lingering consumption.
Spedding lived next door to Deeming’s historic cottage,
in Andrew-street, Windsor, and tendered material evi-
dence at the trial.
*** * . .
Bulletin tip, last week, re interprovincial
yacht-race between Sam Hordern’s White Wings and M.L.
crack Rainbow panned-out right. When a Bulletin tip
pane out right this paper gets, into a state of beastly arro-
gance. Rainbow won the rubber easily. Second race
was sailed on January 31. Breeze, moderate from S.S.E.
at start, backed round to \E., and fell away gradually as
afternoon wore on. This suited the M.L. boat to perfec-
tion. Race was twice round Manly course, Sydney Har-
bor (about 22 miles). White Wings stuck to it well in
first round, but the wind was too light for her
afterwards, and she dropped back till Rainbow crossed
the line 7min. 52sec. to the good. Archie Logan handled
the Aucklander, and Fred Doran the Sydney yacht. Each
had a leg in at this stage. Last of the series was sailed
Thursday, over same course. A light East Nor’-Easter
favored Rainbow, and she won with 12min. Bsec. in hand.
Same two men were at the helms. In light weather
White Wings, with her comparatively small area of
canvas, is no match for the M.L. yacht, though given a
stiff breeze there would always be a great race between
tlie pair.
••• * - *
P.A.Y.O. (Sydney) General Handicap, Satur-
day, was deprived of all interest through a disaster on the
starting-line. Defender, M.L. crack Rainbow, and Chin-
nery’s new yacht, Rona, collided. Latter two lost their
bowsprits. Rainbow got much the worst of the deal, as
in addition to the injury named her mainsail was damaged
and topsail torn beyond repair. Rainbow’s port-rail also'
carried away. Beyond losing her bowsprit, Rona sustained
no injury, and Defender—the innocent cause of all the
trouble —got away unscathed and engaged in the race
while the others hove-to to get rid of wreckage. Isea
won by 32sec., while Aoma finished lmin. 27sec. inside
what White Wings had to allow her. Course was round
Manly buoy and Watson’s Bay pile-lightr—about 17 miles.
Conditions were best and best. Saturday’s was to have
been Rainbow’s last test with local boats of her class.
*** ' »
‘ ‘ Bias Sydney bowling pennant matches have
reached the semi-final stage. St. Leonards, Balmain and
Redfern were put out on Saturday last. City, Petersham
and Waverley remain—first two with a clean sheet and
latter one against. Write'r thinks City and Petersham are
sure to fight out the final, and that former (last year’s
premiers) will be atop again.
* •- * •
The 300yds. swimming supremacy of N.S.W.
brought out nine competitors at Farmer’s Domain Baths
(Sydney) on Saturday. Balmain champion Craig (holder
of Australasian 220yds. premiership) won by a foot after a
hard tussle with young Dick Cavill, who fought out every
inch of the way. At 75yds. from home Craig was three
to the good, but Dick laid his ears back and strained
every muscle till they were level. Neck and neck the
two rounded into the last stretch (30yds.), and it seemed
that something must snap. In the end Craig won by a
foot. Bond (half-mile champion .of N.S.W. and quarter-
mile top-notcHer of Victoria) was third—lsyds. off—while
plugger Harry Smith filled fourth position. Time (3 min.
48 1-5 sec.) is 1 3-5 sec. outside world’s amateur record,
created by Australian Freddy Lane over same course in
February last year ; and 1 4-5 sec. speedier than profes-
sional champion of the world Nuttall’s best. Craig—still
in his teens—is only about three years older than Cavill.
Writer thinks that if Dick had made his effort a bit sooner
he would very nearly have reversed the result.
* * * *
Be The Bulletin par. (20/l/’00) attributing
Dick Cavill’s defeat in the furlong championship of Aus-
tralasia, previous Saturday’, to staleness. Writer rises to
say that that statement was correct. Proof came last
Saturday in the 300yds. premiership. Cavill stuck to
Craig over the whole journey, and only went under by a
foot in wonderfully fast time. Bond was 15yds. off third.
In the furlong race Craig led easily from start to finish
and won with 10yds. margin between himself and Cavill,
who only finished 3yds in front of Bond.
International 3-miles scratch race at N.S.W.
League’s acetylene-gas meeting on Sydney Cricket Ground,
Monday night, was won in great style by Bob Walne (Q.).
Tucker streaked away at the start and captured a couple
of lap-prizes before being displaced ; then Carpenter
notched a like performance. Entering the final quarter
all were going well, but 150 yards from home Walne shot
out like a rocket and won, pulling up, by 10yds. Megson
(N.S.W.) barely beat Gordon (Vie.), between whom and
Morgan it was as near a tie as could be. Time sm. o6 2 sec.
* * * *,
Adelaide Oval cycling track, alleged to be the
best in Australia, and now nearly completed, will be
opened in March. As a result, S.A Government, which
laid down an expensive track on Adelaide Jubilee Oval,
will fall in very badly, S.A. Cycling League having agree
to race on the new track exclusively.
* * * *
“C.M.G.”: How is it half-a-dozen professional
cyclists* are not killed in the course of every big event?
The smash is inevitable. I have never been at a meeting
that did not provide at least one promiscuous scattering
of men and machines, and have seen seven batches come
down in one afternoon ; yet not once has a, man of them
been damaged as seriously as the ordinary citizen is when
he falls over a barrel-hoop in his back yard, or spills him-
self into the wood-heap. At the Melb. A.N.A. sports on
Friday night, when a push was going Sheol for hides in a
lightning heat, ker-smash went a batch of competitors at
a bad bend, and for half a second the air was full of
crumpled riders and crippled machines and tyres and
spokes, and men were bouncing off the asphalt like a
cloud of astonished grasshoppers. And not one man had
to be returned to his parents on a shutter. Next morn-
ing’s papers had a story of a placid rider who ran cautiously
into a dog, and broke his arm and concussed his brain on
the spot. It would seem that the true art of riding on a
bicycle is the art of falling off. -
Old John Roberts—he was J. Roberts, jun.,
until his father died a while ago —looks likely to retain
the English billiard championship for another year. At
latest dates he had been giving 8000 points in 21,000 to
his challengers, and beating them one after another. On
“ form ” he is still apparently superior to young Dawson,
who met him on level terms last year and was altogether
outplayed at the business end of the match.
Since the George-street (Sydney) tram started
operations the Chinese Monte Carlo at the north end,
near Circular Quay, has slumped. The cheerful lallikm
who erstwhile stole in and risked half-crowns at the
games he did not understand, and marked tickets which
came to nothing, took a dislike to the trams (reason not
known, for the workings of the bell-bottomed intellect
are beyond ordinary comprehension) and transferred his
custom to Goulburn-street. Then came a police raid,
and the two combined convinced John, or, as he is
becoming more generally known, Pat, that Chinatown
was played out, and he mostly shifted to Goulburn-street
also, and there are now a number of cheery premises to
let. * *
* • * *
Bob Fitzsimmons was not long in finding out
the difference between a winning and a defeated man.
Bob asked Julian, his brother-in-law and manager, to re-
serve a box for him at a theatre in which Julian had an in-
terest, but the box was not reserved, and the pair
quarrelled and parted. Had Fitz, when in the heyday of
his glory, wished for the whole theatre it would probably
have been his for the asking. The Fitzsimmons-Julian
household was the most extraordinary on earth. Fitz was
divorced from the wife he took over from Sydney, and
married Julian’s sister, a plump and pleasing party of the
variety stage, whereupon Julian married Fitz’s divorced
wife ; and the marvellous conglomeration travelled toge-
ther for years.
* * * »
“ W.’s” opinion:—Recent successes of new
bowlers, M’Betn and Saunders, in interprovincial cricket
make one wonder what would happen if a second Charlie
Turner were let loose in a present-day match. Both
these trundlers toss up, left-handed, a common, medium-
paced straight ball, and batsmen are so unused to straight
bowling in these days of everlasting alleged off-theory
that they promptly get bowled. When the newness
wears off them, and they learn to bowl said off-theory,
hitters like Worrall and Hopkins will knock them out of
the sct>ring-book. “ Off-theory” bowling is becoming the
curse of Australian cricket. In the days of Turner and
“Giff.,” when it was good, off-theory was fairly effec-
tive, but very few batsmen get out off it nowadays for the
simple reason that 9 out of every 10 batsmen “pass”
everything pitched on the off, assuming that it is
treacherous off-theory. Occasionally the tenth has ago
at it, and as most of our present bowlers’ idea of off-
theory is any kind of muck pitched a couple of feet out-
side the wicket, he generally piles up a score ; but no
amount of illustration will persuade the average cricketer
to “ deal out ”to it. The amusing part is that most bats-
men bang to the fence lots of straight bowling, and re-
ligiously leave alone exactly the same stuff if it is a little
to the off. Yet it stands to reason that it’s easier to keep
a ball down when you know it won’t hit the wicket than
it is when you know if you miss it you’re out —but the
average cricketer can’t reason.
••* • •
George Giffen’s double record of 10,000 runs and
1000 wickets in first-class cricket places him right above
all other Australians. Who is likely to rival him ?
Trumble has a chance now that he has become a good,
solid batsman, and the only other man in view’ at present
is Noble. Murdoch stopped at 7000 runs (he didn’t bowl
at ail), and the only other Australian batsmen who have
made over 5000 runs in first-class cricket are A. Banner-
man, Lyons, Blackham, M’Donnell, and “Joe” Trott.
In bowling only one other Australian has captured 1000
wickets —viz., O. Turner, and he owed his success to the
wet English wickets, whereas Giffen was at his best on
our ow'n hard pitches. In all probability Australia will
not for a long time have another all-round champion of
Giffen’s calibre. Apropos, Giffen, in his best days, W’ent
through heavy training every morning with Indian clubs,
accompanied by brisk walking and boxing exercise. At
the latter pastime he was one of the best amateurs in
Adelaide. His performance of taking eight wickets for
280 out of N.S. Wales’ total of 803, this season, shows what
stamina Giffen still retains.
• * » *
Roberts, Robertson, and Schneider, first three
men in final of A.N.A. Wheel Race, rode Dunlop tyres.
at**


WE CAREFULLY GUARD
THE INTERESTS
OF SMOKERS
bA
%
ti
m
&
v.
s
BY MAKING . . .
DERBY TOBACCO
Ask for Derby.
A SYNONYM FOR PURITY
*
A
tub
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES.
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK CRIMLEy
Sole Distributing AgeOt
for ACiStrahaSia ...
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-265 Clarence Street , Sydney .
FOR SALE. —Two Alluvial Shares, £l5O.
Eully proved ; working ; return £7 per
week; 20 years’ work assured.
J. TAYLOR, Bulletin Office.
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred.^
PATRONAGE^/
...0n...
Mr. Fraok Seoior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor • - GEO. W. ELLIS.
“Toka : Not generally known that the great
Carbine had a narrow escape from destruction before his
career had well commenced. He had won a race as a
two-year-old, and a crowd had gathered round him when
the spin was over. Carbine, being young and unwise,
chewed the bell-topper of one of the bystanders, who was
proceeding to drive his gamp into the horse’s eye when
.he was removed. He was removed about eight feet with
a fist. The assailant proved to be an incipient maniac,
and becoming less incipient as time went on he has now a
permanent residence in an asylum.
• • *
*
I Peter Jackson is a broken-up man in hospital;
Griffo has just come out of a lunatic asylum ; and now it
is said Fitzsimmons is over-fond of his whisky—a fact
which largely influenced backers in his match with
Jeffries. The trio were probably the best boxers the
world has produced at their respective weights.
* * m *
Memoriam notice from Hobart Mercury
(IS/l/’00): —“ NUGGET.—The late owners of the pony
Nugget regret to inform their many friends that he died
on January 2 at his owners’ late residence, corner Barrack
and Collins Streets, of sunstroke. A faithful worker to
the last.” After all, why not? Writer has known many
horses that deserved a kindly send-off when they went
where the good horse goes—and very few men.
Lindeman’s Wines.
The name of Lindeman has become indissolubly
linked with the Australian wine trade, and when
a good article is wanted Lindeman is a name on
which to rely. Increasing trade has necessitated
Mr. Lindeman establishing his offioe and cellars
on the ground floor and basement of Queen Vic-
toria Markets, George-street, Sydney. The
spaciousness of the cellars, and the amount of the
stock is a revelation to anyone who is not familiar
with the extent of Mr. Lindeman’s business.
400,000 gallons of wine, the greater portion fully
matured, is a modest computation of the stock.
The excellence of the wines is a fact granted by
every connoisseur. Among others, Mr. William
Hudson, the well-known London expert, pro-
nounces Lindeman’s to be equal to the best
European wines; and a chemical analysis by the
N.S.W. Govt, analyst of wines representing
the whole stock, proved them to be absolutely
pure, and comparing favorably with the best French
and German brands. Mr. Lindeman’s wines have
fained distinction wherever exhibited ; notably at
'aris, Bordeaux, London, and Calcutta; while
the four national prizes offered by the N.S. Wales
Government for the best dry red, best sweet red,
best dry white, and best sweet white wines were
secured by Lindenian’s. Mr. Lindeman occupied
the Exchange cellars for over forty years, and it
was there that he laid the foundation of his pre-
sent immense business.
»
“ For goodness sake Julia keep your hairy
legs away from me. They make me get night-
mares of native bears walking over me.”—Over-
heard in hessian boarding-house at Kalgoorlie one
night.
Mr. Randolph Bedford has issued a con-
venient and valuable map of the Chillagoe mines
(North Queensland) which conveys a lot of infor-
mation about the lay of that enormous specula-
tion, and will be of great value to intending in-
vestors. All shareholders, also people who help
to carry on the angry Chillagoe correspondence in
the papers, should get it.
Mr. Alfred R. Moulton, late conductor of
the Princess Theatre orchestra, and better known
as the composer of the immensely-successful opera,
“ Lalamine,” is being tendered a big farewell con-
cert, at the Melb. Town Hall, on Saturday even-
ing, 17th inst. Mr. Alfred R. Moulton is proceed-
ing to America shortly, where he intends producing
his operas, so Melbourne will lose a musician of
uncommon merit.*
One of the “ difficulties ” standing in the
way of the (N.S.W.) Medical Practitioners’ Bill
passed away at Coonamble last week, aged 86
years. Edward Connor Cornelius’ name does
not appear among the legally-qualified surgeons.
Yet for nearly half a century he practised success-
fully “out back” on the Castlereagh. A kindly
old gentlemen, he will long be kept in memory for
his charity and good deeds.
“D.C.L.,”
When applied to a man, is a high academic dis-
tinction. When applied to whisky, “D.C.L.”is
the highest distinction it can possess. “ D.C.L.”
(Black Bottle) Scotch Whisky is perfect.*
In view of the present outbreak of military
fury, Messrs. Fairfax and Roberts, of 23 Hunter-
street, Sydney, vice-regal jewellers, have struck
an idea. They are appealing to the excited fancy
of the moment by issuing a dainty gold brooch of
five bars of gold bearing the notes of tne “Advance”
—the notes that called on the Soldiers of the
Queen to storm Talana Hill and Elands Laagte.
When the war is oyer and all the Boers are killed,
and the Absent-minded Beggar in distant years
takes the emblem to his uncle who dwells under
the shadow of the three globes, the notes will serve
as a soul-stirring appeal to that relative to advance
a little more than usual on the shecurity,*
At Poverty Point.
Editor Bulletin.— l see “ Ilaresfoot,” in The Bulletin’s
last issue, refers to the old discussion Concerning my
father’s drama, the “Dead Heart,” and Dickens’ “Tale
of Two'Cities.” The subject Was thoroughly threshed
out when Sir Henry Irving produced Watts Phillips’
drama at the London Lyceum, when it was conclusively
proved that my father’s play was written before the novel
of “ The Two Cities.” Ben Webster, of the Adelphi
Theatre, read the drama to Dickens at Gads Hill as the
promising work of a young author. Dickens liked the
play. Webster, as was his custom with unknown authors,
shelved the dratua. When he heard Madame Celeste
(who was his partner and had quarrelled with him) was
going to produce a version of the novel, he looked out the
MS. of “ Dead Heart” (this was in ’59) and produced it.
My father’s play was a success, but the dramatised version
of “ The Two Cities ” was not, though I believe Madame
Celeste was very fine as Madame DCfarge in this version
—the part of the play. Neither was indebted to Dumas’
“ Chevalier de la Alaison Rouge.” It was not then the
age of translations, and I doubt if Dickens had read
Dumas’ work. My father found both episodes— i.e., a
man taking another’s place on the scaffold and also being
buried in the Bastille for 18 years—in Carlyle’s “French
Revolution.” He often spoke on the subject, as, to his
deep regret, it caused a coldness between himself and
Dickens.—Faithfully yours, Roland Watts Phillips.
Lyceum Theatre, Sydney. [The Bulletin adds an irrele-
vant P.S. to the effect that Miss Watts Phillips is almost
the only lady it knows whose handwriting isn’t an anguish
to the compositor. The average lady’s manuscript is one
reason why so few compositors are saved.]
Dear Bulletin. — “S.S.” states that handsome Aragon,
the feather-cloaked lady who pirouetted on the high-wire
hereabouts, was identical with the Mdlle. Charminelle (or
Charminsette, or some such narne) “who knocked London
by ascending to a trapeze in full street costume and strip-
ping to the skin-tights.” The statement is incorrect.
The vision who stripped on the bar was not the aforesaid
“ Queen of the Wire.”—E.F.
A famous and almost-forgotten divorce was that of
Ellen Terry from the now veteran artist G. F. Watts. A
magnificent portrait of her still hangs in his great bronze-
ornamented studio ; but visitors are warned to pass it
without reference, lest annoyance should be caused to the
“ modern Velasquez ” and his young second experiment
in matrimony.
“ V.” : S.M. Herald, in a notice of Mr. R. Stewart, now
treasurer at Sydney Royal, says that as a, member of a
company leasing Melb. Royal from 1867 to 1877 he intro-
duced G. V. Brooke, &c. As Brooke was drowned in the
Bay of Biscay in Jan., 1866, it must have been the trage-
dian’s ghost the company engaged.
“ P.A.” : About prophets. Visited Mackay lately, where
Melba squandered about £30,000 worth of voice on as
unsympathetic audiences as could be found in all the
Land of Mysterious Murder. One old resident told me she
was “ pooty good.” People always applauded her songs
if the weather wasn’t too ’ot, ’cos she was a local cocky’s
wife and sung for nix. Sometimes they laughed at her
squeak}' voice and “them funny little quivers” in it.
Then I met the man who “ discovered ” her. He told me
so himself. He said to her: “ Look here, Mrs. Armstrong,
if I ’ad that voice of yourn I’d make a fortune.” “ How ? ”
says she. “ W’y, I’d go ’Ome and study ’bout three
years," says I; “ then I’d make my deboot and paralayze
'em. And she just done what 1 tole her.” At Geelong, a
few years ago, I heard Marie Elster give a magnificent
rendering of “ Sing, Sweet Bird,” to a crowded house, and
only half-a-dozen hand-claps broke the painful silence.
Charles Harding, who, at the age of 60, electrified a few
London audiences with the remains of the finest male
voice Australia ever produced, kept a wood-and-coal yard
in Auckland, and wasted a life there that could have been
spent in a triumphant career in the old world ; he was only
considered “ not too bad ” in that “ musical ” city.
Simonsen “ discovered ” him at the age of 40. ' On the
other hand, Jack Edwards was considered a perfect won-
der. When he sang “ Let me like a Soldier Fall ” in an
upstairs pub. parlor in Queen-street people would stand
open-mouthed to listen, and the ’bus traffic stopped.
When he came over to storm Sydney he secured a billet
in the chorus, and died after some years’ service, having
never got more than eight bars in advance of the crowd.
I told the story to a very famous English vocalist in the
same hotel parlor some years after, and played for him
while he sang his best. After each song he ran to the
window to see if the traffic was disturbed, but nary a ’bus
stopped except to set down a woman with a market basket.
“ C.M.G.’’: There are two parties fiercely disputing as
to the cause of the S. African war, and twenty different
opinions are prevalent, all wrong. I alone'appear to have
realised the serious fact that tw’o popular songs are en-
tirely responsible for the whole iniquity. Had “ Sons of
the Sea ” and “ Soldiers of the Queen ” never been written
the British would have been satisfied with the measure
of reform offered by Uncle Paul of Pretoria, but those
shrieksome ditties had been sung into every British in-
stinct, and every patriot and jingo was raving mad to
realise them —to demonstrate the truth of the philosophy
they breathed. “ Let me make the songs of a nation, let
who will make its wars.”
Hubert O'Grady, Irish “ author-actor-manager,” died
recently. Years ago, the film imported O’Grady, and lie
played a brief season at Melbourne Royal as the comic
cynical villain in one of his own bad dramas. The season
terminated with a speech from the “ star,” intended to
bring blushes to the cheek of the local press. O'Grady
was a most unreasonable visitor. He took his hatred for
Australia back to England with him, and fired bits of ani-
mosity across the ocean at our vile uncultured country
until his stock of adjectives gave out.
“Cockaigne”: Miss Nellie Stewart was never so chag-
rined as on last Boxing Night, at Drury Lane. She was
engaged for Jack, in the pantomime of the “ Giant
Killer,” and duly attended to dress for the performance,
but a cold with which she had been struggling made it
absolutely impossible for her to go on. Therefore the
part had to be given to a chit named Lowell, the under-
study, and she made a hit in it, while poor Nell spent the
festive evening weepfully in her sumptuous drawing-
room.
Demise: Piccolomini, the little prlma donna—the Patti,
as it were, of a few years before Patti. Piccolomini was
nobly born, as the butcher’s apprentice says in “ The
Power and the Glory.” Her father was a nobleman, her
uncle a Cardinal, and the family has yielded two Popes.
Her Traviata was an overwhelming London success.
Queen Victoria went as far as she could towards forbid-
ding this opera. In the hot time of the war for Italian
liberation, the Florentine populace started to taKe
the horses out of Piccolomini’s carriage, to tug it along
after the opera, but she screeched, “No! Go ana ngnt
for your country 1 ” Which was a better advt. than
t’other. Like most' prirna donnas, Piccolomini came to
poverty.
While singing Kipling’s “Absent-minded Beggar,” re-
cently, Harry Rickards received a nasty knock on tne
marble brow from a large, heavy copper coin, but Harry
still sings the lay every evening, “by special request.
“ Henry V.,” after reciting the much-parodied pome (U
and stopping a badly-aimed one with his face, B °l v J-p 'v ie
difficulty by turning his back to the audience 1, . luc S
little Dolly Vane, however, faces the music nightly witn
a badly-damaged eye, and rakes in much money, though
Sydney is shortly going to be very tired of the A.M.
Beggar. After street-bands, parodies, &c., there s only
one more step—the barrel-organ and oblivion, broken
by the recitation of fragments of the “ Beggar by
the discordant green parrot in the back-yard.
Ilahn, the “ Absent-minded beggar” at Melb. Bijou, is
presumably of German extraction. By the. way, what has
become of Maurice, the volatile un-British individual who
ran his oWn ill-fated show, and piped “ Dey can’t bund
boys of de boule-dogue bre-e-ed dat made old Ingland s
fame”? Maurice would be an excruciatingly funny
attractiomjust how.
Striking how hard-up the Englishman is for decent
patriotic songs when he does feel like throwing up his hat
and bawling in the streets after pub.-closing time. The
recent wave of Jingoism spent itself mostly in more or
less awful renderings of “ Soldiers of the Queen ” and
“ Sons of the Sea,” two music-hall ditties of the deepest
dye. Now and then “Rule Britannia” would bob up,
but that about finished the repertoire, and the programme
would have to be started all over again. Now, an Irish-
man or a Scotchman could bellow away all night without
ever repeating himself. When did England last have a
decent patriotic song of its own—a land war-song especi-
ally ? What use is “ Britannia rules the Waves ” when the
fight is with an inland state and an ironclad can’t climb a
kopje ?
“ J.A.C.”: When in Italy I heard a story of Rossini
which I don’t think has ever been printed. One Ronzi
called on Rossini, and, announcing himself as both singer
and composer, proposed that he should first give the
master a specimen of his vocal abilities, and then play one
of his own compositions, in order to give Rossini a chance
of advising him as to which branch of the art he should
pursue. Accordingly he sang, and Rossini, when he had
finished, said, “ Beautiful, beautiful! ” Ronzi, delighted,
then sat down to the piano and played. “ Excellent,
excellent! ” was the comment this time ; but not another
syllable was forthcoming. “ But, caro maestro, you have
not yet told me which I should choose,” said Ronzi.
“ Well,” Said Rossini, after a pause of apparent delibera-
ti6n, “ if I were you I should try dancing ! ”
It was a small, disreputable co., calling itself a vaude-
ville combination, and it consisted of two managers, the
boss and his wife (or the boss and her husband) and two
played-out corner-men. The company could do a few
deplorable songs, and certain melancholydances, but the
great draw was a damaged cinematograph, the films of
which were mostly holes. The cinemat. got the large
headlines on the bills, and when the-co. struck a small
bush township it was the machine that drew in about 60
people all told. The tunes were run off, and then the
male manager got into his little caboose in the gallery,
and began to grind out his splendid living pictures. Ten
minutes later a deputation from the audience below
plucked him forth. “Say, mister,” said the spokesman,
“we want our money back.” “Money back!” gasped
the proprietor. “Why?” “Call that a sinnymatter-
graff ! ” said the representative man. “ Why, ’tain’t
nothin’ but an old magic lantern 1 ”
Melb. papers gush over the great successes of an Aus-
tralian actress in a far land, and hint at their vast appre-
ciation of her cleverness when on the local boards. Yet,
in point of fact, the young lady merely kicked her heels
in the dusk away in the back parts of the Melbourne
ballet, and never by any chance came within half-a-mile
of the footlights. And the papers never asked that she
should be brought further to the front.
A one-time very bad actor, now a very bad travelling
photographer, called at Murphy’s humpy and stayed until
next morning. Murphy had never seen a camera before,
and felt a bit scared at the look of it. When the photo-
fiend had the family grouped and was fixing the black
cloth, Murphy and the rest decided that he was going to
shoot, and they fled in all directions into the bush. Only
hunger made them return home, and by that time Johnny
and his weapon had departed.
Wilson Barrett seriously threatens to produce himself
in “ Henry the Fifth” when he takes his next autumn
turn at the Lyceum. It is a sacrilegious scheme. No
soulful Australian or American who has seen the two
actors would willingly permit Barrett to play the monar-
vcbial part which George Rignold practically “ created.”
The Bulletin, anyway, will always think of Handsome
George—and he was very handsome in his blonde wig and
tin crown—as Henry Vee by the Grace of God.
“T.D.”: Present parsonical cordiality toward Kipling
makes an astonishing contrast to the open hostility of the
churches to his earlier and better work. “Lest we for-
get,” and others of Rudyard’s hymns, are frequently sung
in the churches just now, and if he lcipples much more of
the same stuff the holy crowd who used to shriek over
his literary immorality will probably give that adver-
tising patriot a special niche beside Dr. Watts and the
iifest.
“Shifter”: Irving’s “ Bells ” „was first acted in Melb.
by Carden, at the Opera House. F. Cates acted Mathias
for his benefit in Melbourne.
Alfred Dampier and co. played “Britain and Boer” at
Hobart Royal for the “Patriotic” fund, and the
“patriots” rolled up in such numbers that the munifi-
cent sum of £25 was realised. And let it be remarked
that those were the gross receipts.
Bernard Shaw has made another effort to fit the British
stage with a drama. Ellen Terry is to stage a work of
his bearing the clumsy name, “ Captain Brassbound’s
Conversion.”
“ T.D.” : “ Compton ” cold-bloodedly suggests that the
critic should always put accompanist Sykes into the
balance against singer or fiddler. Does he know that
Sykes is anathema, and the only thing one Sydney daily
remembers him by is a farthing damages and 500 guineas
costs? That paper mentions the pianist chiefly in its
advts., and even there it occasionally spells his name
Skyes.
“Melb.” : Hearing Mrs. Harrison Lee at Wesley Church
on Sunday afternoon my ears lengthened visibly, or shall
I say “ swelled wisibly,” like the old woman with the
thirteen cups of tea, under Sam Weller's gaze, at Stiggins’s
Brick Lan% Branch of the Ebenezer. She complimented
Tub Bulletin 1 Yes, Mrs. Harrison Lee said The Bulletin
had generously acknowledged the power of her anti-
alcoholic labors in Maoriland. The dear little woman is
as pleasing as ever, only she must take care and not get
too fat. At present she is just agreeably plump, but
plumpness can be overdone.
“ N.” : No melodrama is complete without “ Ha 1 you
here l ” and no leading article without a remark about
Kipling.
Latest music-hallity. Not strictly patriotic—
Let ’em all go ! Let ’em all go 1
Let Grenadiers and Life Guards shunt,
And the blokes with the whitewash brush in front —
They eat up all the grub. Let them march to war, what
ho 1
I’ll get a little bit myself. Let ’em all go 1
(Men with whitewash brush, i.e., Highlanders.)
Said that the musical comedy show which George Mus-
grove is sending over in June will be given at “ Gaiety”
prices—7s. 6d. ?Qr the dress-circle.
Tom Fitzgerald and wife sailed for London the other
week with a view to engaging new people for the circus.
Brother Tom’s address just now is the Era office.
Robert Young, who recently “ knocked ’em ” at a
Melb. Liedertafel smoke concert with some musical
sketches in the Corney Grain style, was Clerk of Petty
Sessions at Hobart for some years. In ’9l’, when he went
’Ome for a holiday, Young made two matinde appearances
at the London Tivoli, and was offered an engagement
which he couldn’t accept. Now that he is a fullblown
pro. he finds Australia has little or no use for drawing-
room entertainers. Better to be a Sessions clerk than a
pianoforte funny-man.
During his tour through Maoriland, N.S.W, ex-Premier
Reid called in at a limelight show given at (Queenstown,
Otago, in aid of the fund for helping to deprive a small
nation of its independence. First picture represented a
badly-flooded town. “ This,” said the showman, “is
Sydney under water.” “ Nonsense,” said an exasperated
voice from the audience, “ that’s Brisbane. Sydney was
never under water.” The showman turned the limelight
on the voice and saw a large round head and a dazzling
reflection where the light rebounded from an eyeglass.
Then he went on with rather less confidence. A pond
with some ducks appeared, and the flurried entertainer
stated at random that it was Sydney Harbor. Here the
head and the dazzling eyeglass rose to say something,
but couldn’t find anything large enough to fit the
occasion, and two short legs trotted disgustedly out.
At Adelaide Royal, “Called to Arms,” staged to big
houses at contingent departure time, included as one of
the characters President Kruger, who, amid the execra-
tion of the gods, advised his generals to shoot the
prisoners and wounded, and hoist the white flag when-
ever necessary. Good old British fair-play 1
Dear Bulletin. —Quite a number of Aus-
tralian Cabinet Ministers have intimated their
intention of dismissing any State-school teacher
or other public servant who expresses opinions on
certain matters which do not coincide with the
Minister’s own. I don’t know about the other
provinces, but I desire to remind N.S.W. Educa-
tion Minister Perry that under the Electoral Act
it is a felony to intimidate, dismiss, bribe, or
punish any employe for his political opinions or
votes. Felony isn’t a nice thing, and there are
unpleasant consequences about it.—S.B.
Cardinal Moran’s announcement that he
is against the Boers because of their intense
Protestantism, and his wild whooping of the
Catholic party to help to down the Protestant
republic on religious grounds, was the sort of
mistake that a wiser man would not have fallen
into. And the R.C. Bishop of Perth dropped
into the same tactless error. The Boers are
probably the most hardshell nation of Protestants
on earth. Their State is an ideal one from the
Orange standpoint—a State where no Roman
Catholic can fill a higher billet in the public
service than that of policeman; and this public
sooling-on of the green dog is calculated to make
the other dog—the yellow one—feel sour and cross.


DAWSON
&
0
Reliable^
.Everywhere Popular^*
NO MIDDLEMENS PROFITS!
•v-Business Daily Increasing
Prices Save you 25 to 50 per cent
No. Ks72T.—Elegant Bird Brooch,
Whole Pearl, 15c. Gold, £ll6a,
MBS?
m
No. 155.—Artistic Scroll Brooch, 18 Fine
Diamonds, 2 Whole Pearls, 3 Sapphires,
£BlO3.
No. E244B.—New Design, Bird and Amethyrt
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 12s. 6d.
No. 660.—Elegant Brooch, 21 Fine Diamonds,
6 Sapphires, £8 7s 6d.
Ko. Es629.—New Lucky Bell Brooch,
9c. Gold, 10s 6d.
ifor 146.—150. Gold Bracelet, 3 Diamonds 2 Sapphires,
£4 10s.
No. 208.—15 c. Gold
Heart, 10s. 6d ;
9c. ditto, 6s Od.
No. 206.—9 c. Gold Neck Chain, lls 6d.
> y? OBSE
No. 214.—Neck Chain, 9c. 18s 6d; 15c. £l lsa.
No. 213.—9 c. Gold Neck Chain, £1 2s 6d.
No. 215. —Pearl airfl
Kuby Heart, :9c. Gobf^
16s ©a.
Sit). 141a.—9c. Gold Buckle Bracelet, set Rubles and
Pearls, £2 10s.
No. E5206.—9c. Gold " Prince of Wales ’’ Long Muff Chain.
Finest make, £2 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, £5 10s.
Nci iBB2.—Silver Boot Button Hook, 8a 6d.
Shoe Lift to match, 10s 6d.
Glove Button Hook, 2s 6d.
No. E6203.—8c. Gold Long: Muff Chain, £B 6*
15a Gold, £6 U*.
Ladies’ Silver Mounted Hair Brushes,
20s, 22s 6d, 255, 27s 6d, 30s, 355.
AS Illustration, £1 2s 6cL
Silver Mounted Combs,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6cL
As Illustration, 10s 6d.
9c. Pearl Initial Brooch,
any Letter, 6s 6cL
No. 271a.— Solid Silver Hat Brush,
6|in. long, 11s 6d.
Glove Stretcher, Solid Silver Handles, Ivory Points
lSe 6d, 15s 6d, 18s 6d, 22s Cd.
As Illustration, £1 2 6d.
•No. 173.—Finest White
Diamond, £lB 10s to £4O.
No. 162.
3 fine Diamonds, 18c.,
£4 17s 6d.
No. 261.—Medal.
9c. Gold, £1 Is ; 15c.£117s 6d
Silver, 3s 6d.
No. 168a. — 18c. Band
Ring, set Fine Diamond
from £3 to £6 10s.
No. 171a.—18c. Gold,
6 Fine Opals, £2 10s.
No. 220. —Gent.’s Gold Alberts.
9c. Gold, £1 10 6 15c. Gold, £7 10 0 Silver, 14s 6d
9c. Double, " 15 0 15s. Double, 10 15 0 Double, 20s.
No. 142. —Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9c. Gold, £3 3s ; 15c. Gold, ±'s 10s.
Smaller Sizes in 9c., 35s and 50s.
Smaller Sizes in 15c., 65s and 87s 6d.
No. 176.—Carved Half
Hoop, 6 Fine Diamonds,
£l7 10s, £22, £25 to £6O.
■so9 ‘sgs ‘sos ‘sgs ‘sis
‘sSaig
autppaA\ PIOO •08t
■
No. 231A.—16a. Gold Locket,
set with S Diamonds and
4 Sapphires, £4 10s.
No. 182. Marquise
Bings, Fine White
Diamonds,
£l6los, £2O, £26-£4O
No. 167.—1 Diamond,
2 Rubies, 180. Gold,
£2 6s.
Gent.’s Gold Alberts.
9c. Gold, £2 17 6, £3 3 0 15c. Gold, £4 17 6, £5 17 6 Silver, 8/6
9c. Double, 817 6, £4 15 0 16c. Double, 615 0, 10 10 0 Double, 12/6
No. 179a. —Set Links.
9c. Gold, £1 Is. 15c. Gold, £2
Silver, 6s 6d.
Silver Plated Serviette
Rings, hexagon
design, fie.
No. 193.—Set Links.
Be., IBs 6d; Isc„ £l loa.
Silver. 4s. fid.
Gent.’# Gold Alberts.
oc. Gold, £3 17 0 15c. Gold, £6 6 0
9c. Double, 6 6 0 16c. Double, 9 10 0
Silver, 15s 6d
Double, 21s.
No. 19&L —Set Links.
9c. Gold, 17s 6d. 15c.
Gold, £ll5B. Silver,4/6
iSilver Plated Serviette
Ring, semi-circular or tri-
angular designs, ss.
No. 200a.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, 18s 6d. 15c. Gold,
£llss. Silver, 5s 6d.
Fine Silver-Plated Shaving Mug and
Brush, 355.
New Design Toast Rack, Silver-Plated.
I fis ph
Finest Cut-Glass, Silver
Top, 14s 6d, 21s, 30s,
Pair Silver-Plated Knife Rests, 21s.
Silver-Plated Cut-Glai-s
Butter Dish, with
Knife, £1 2s 6d.
k 4P:,.? -
. §§§
V£*Z*2l
. .. ...
• 't..
jgsSS^
Slgligl
a®*
.; .■
vr\y
Full Set Combination Brushes and Manicure Instruments, Silver-Plated Egg Frame, 265.
Solid Silver, Mounted in Handsome Case, £B.
Dainty, Serviette Holders,
Solid Silver, 3s 6d. Silver-Plated, Is.
fsd
Marmalade Jar and Spoon.
Out-Glass and Silver-
Plated, 6s 6d.
No. E4oB6.—Silver-Plated Sugar Bowl, witb
Sifter, 15s 6d.
Cut-Glass Scents,
Silver Top, 11s 6d,
21s, 255, 30s.
fs
No. E 6413. —Silver Mounted Cloth Brush.
Elaborately chased, 12J4in. long, £2 10s.
■ • Handsome Toilet Set.
Finest Cut-Glass and Solid Silver Mounts, 5 Pieces, £lO
ess- s rcvl
tsk
a
No. 133782. —Combination. Spitit.-Stand and; Cierar Cabinet.
Handsome Oak Frame, Nickel Silver Mounts, Finest Cut-Glass Bottles, £5.
Silver Fruit Knives, Pearl Handles,
2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s Od each.
No. 810. —Elegant Silver-Plated Ink Stand, llin. long, 2 Cut-
Crystal-Bottles ; Emu, Kangaroo, or Horse, in centre, £2 10s.
NOTE. —The various illustrations shown above are engraved frorh the articles direct. - Intending purchasers ihay rely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will be
forwarded (carriage paid), od receipt of remittance'. New 'Booklet of Specialties-(80 pages) Post Free.
STEWART DAWSOH & CO., 412 George Street, and Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
LONDON, ivrTn r .-Ft c-ETXIKgJJXrJSS. A J -XJ’o3ES:iji--A.3Xr33., E*ER.Tia:.


More marvellously Successful and Effectwal than ever.
Hava linen before the Public for over 14 Years*
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc,
A SPECIAL REMEDt POU EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug-
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
How to obtain “ Alfaline Guide to Health ’’—Free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
Mr. O. J. A. NIELSEN.
■
A Living Witness of the Virtues of the
Aifaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12,1898.
to Herr RAssmusskr.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write arid tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony With WEAK NERVES and
feHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I codld wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
Which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am noW using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp ahd made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that Of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Aifaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Aifaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sj'dney.
To. Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Aifaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oeuefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr RaSsmtjssbn.
Dear Sir.—Your wonderful Alfalir Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Aifaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fullv, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMTJSSEN* ’
64? George-st.,
SYDNEY*
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches*
OST OPPI
i »i > ii.L‘iiiniMH; >iiimi
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies*
A if aline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s fld.
A IF ALINE BLOOD PILLS
rill cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SEIN DISEASES They remove ahy Talht or
’oison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 68. and nn „w“
temedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course. 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled forl/iver and Kidhey Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want Of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Pi-ice Is 6d.,
35., ahd 65., posted.
AlfaiineUniversal Pills
ate ah infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD aild
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
Complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
fiO&ES, 65.; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING--
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Alfaline Her-
bal Remedies are hereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
sen, or Herr llass-
mussen's authorised
agents—which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
musseh does not travel
selling his Remedies,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs anywhere.
1
Herr Rasemuseen, Op-to-Hate Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■: • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
dealers for the genuine
All aline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be given for. in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
Alfaline Remedies.
MPORTANT.
Send for HERE, RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH, ” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
RPVK€ FREE.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSIUIISSGII.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, ai;d Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
df
Statutory
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass
Mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—a Wonder-
• ful Remedy for Goughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. “Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens th'e System, • Improves-the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free. .
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Iferr Rassmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., SyBIIIM,
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS
ADELAIDE 154 Handle-street (near York Hotel)
91 Lambtoii Quay
N.Z., WELLINGTON
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
GOOEGARDIE Bailey-st. (next rreemason Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next LindeH's, Jeweller)


Ricciotti Garibaldi who has offered volun-
teers from Italy to fight for Britain in South
Africa, was a familiar figure in Melbourne in
the latter seventies. He lived at Brighton in
those days, and was a great friend of Marcus
Clarke. Garibaldi’s ambition was then to raise
poultry. He had a fowl-farm at Brighton and
hatched chickens, and sold them to Jenkins,
poulterer, in Swanston-street. A chemist friend
advised him to use an invention of his for heating
incubators. It turned out to be an explosive in-
vention, and the son of the great Red Shirt found
himself all of a sudden blown through the roof of
his hatching house. When he descended he was
smothered with eggs, and his splendid beard and
moustache had disappeared during the episode.
He mentioned his misfortune to Marcus Clarke in
confidence, and declared that it served him right,
for it was not a soldier’s duty to look after the in-
cubation of hen eggs. At one time, he had a
small billet hunting up small boys who didn’t go
to school, and he narrowly escaped being a sub-
urban town-clerk.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
LAST NIGHTS 1 LAST NIGHTS !
Mr. J. O. WILLIAMSON’S 18th XMAS ANNUAL,
the Gorgeous, Spectacular, Comic, Original Pantomime,
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD,
Or, Keeping the Wolf from the Door.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., R. Stewart, Senior.
THIS and EVERY EVENING, at 8,
TcS& of tbe P’UrbervilfcS.
Miss EDITH CRANE as TESS
Mr. THOMAS KINGSTON as ANGEL CLARE
Mr. TYRONE POWER as ALEC. D'URBERVILLE
and the Full Strength of
Mr. WILLIAMSON’S DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s and Co.
|_YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) TO-NIGHT
Last TWO Nights
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
in the Stupendous Dramatic Success,
THE POWER AND THE GLORY.
SATURDAY, 10th February,
“ IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.”
Prices as Usual. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.45.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’.
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
First Appearance of .CHARLES SEEL and MAUD
NEEDHAM. Gigantic Success of
LUDWIG AN?ANN & THE MACARTE SISTERS.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS, Davy’s Marionettes,
Noni Rickards, Tod Calloway, Bell Ballet,
and all our Great Tivoli Attractions
SAME TIVOLI PRICES. Plan at Paling’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
AN ENTHUSIASTIC FURORE, and THE MOST
BRILLIANT SUCCESS!
8 Newsky Family 8
TOM COSTELLO, Character Comedian, A Great Success.
LITTLE ALMA GRAY. SPRY and AUSTIN, Wallace
King, Elsie Golding, Will Whitburn, Chas. W. Cogill,
and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
Tremendous Furore of Delight! Melbourne Enraptured 1
First Time in Australasia of the sharp-pointed, Racy,
Fragrant, Up-to-Date MUSICAL COMEDY,
“ The : New : Barmaid.”
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as WILLIAM WHITE.
GRACIE WHITEFORD as DORA HEATHER.
Full Opera Band -The Excelsior. Troop of Dancers.
Prices-35., 25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the Direction of
Miss KATHERINE RUSSELL (Mrs. Alfred Dampier).
Business Manager, Mr. George Buller.
REAPPEARANCE OF .\ REAPPEARANCE OF
ALFRED DAMPIER.
Supported by his famous touring Dramatic Company.
“ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.”
ADMISSION—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is.; and SIXPENCE.
-|-OWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
Evening, 17th February,^4^-
GRAND FAREWELL CONCERT to
Mr. ALFRED R. MOULTON.
(Composer of “ LELAMINE.”)
PRICES—4s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s Music Ware-
house, Melbourne. JOHN H. TAIT, Manager.
Collins Place East
- Melbourne.
Rochester Lodge
m" Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M‘CLELLANt>
(nee BOLGER).
FOR
Duck Shiotmg*
always use
CANNONITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried Used Always.
CASHMORE GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS,
GAME BAGS, GUN CASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Test Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
Rackhdm’s Dog and Cattle
Medicines .
SOLE AGENTS—
MEM BROS, » RISE. EM.
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney.
MEMORY
F 5
1
MEMORY^-
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
School of Arts,
Sydney.
TESTIMONIALS.
Mr. A. H. Brown, Constitution Hill, Tas.—“History
was always m.v dread in exams., but by your System I
have just gained 92 per cent, of the possible in it. With
your System no one need fear the examiners.”
Mr. R. Hutchins, Hunter-street, Sydney.—“ It is of
Inestimable value to those about to matriculate, and to
civil service candidates. It will always repay a hundred-
fold the small fee invested.”
{odors Take |f.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, &c.,use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHOEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative; keep
it in the hpuse, it wilLsave many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
*** LOZENGES.
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world,
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
■
m
SPARKLING
''>77—]
tm
''M vm
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared with this
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, litd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Whoimuifl Aarents: BLAKE* & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildlmra. 418 George Street. Sydney.
Toe national Cash Register.
A National Cash Register protects
the cash
It protects the customer.
It protects the shopkeeper. k*
It protects the books-
It protects the assistant-
It makes occasional purchasers
regular customers-
H]
§
It causes credit customers to buy
for cash-
Prices from £5 to £6B.
Full information
on application to
National Cash Register
COMPANY.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. A. LING HAM, General Manager.
WUi
NOTE. —Our ONLY Australian Address-- 90 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
LATEST LONDON NOVELTY,
SILVER-PLATED belts,
Will fit any size waist, 7/, 6 6, 6 , and 5/6 each.
(20 Different. Patterns).
sd
fs
I
LUCKY SHAMROCK
CHARM,
Set with 1 Pearl,
2 Amethysts, or J
Topaz or Obsidion, 4s.
GOLD LUCKY WISH HOKE
MERRY THOUGHT BROOCH,
With 2 Pearl and Turquoise Love
Birds, 14s 6d.
With 1 Pearl and Turnuoise Love
Bird, 11s. 6d.
Solid Gold,
Extra
Heavy, 255.
Solid
Silver.
Extra
Heavy,
7s 6d.
AUSTRALIAN BOOMER ainG BROOCH.
GOLD CRESCENT
BROOCH,
Set with Lovely Pearls or Pearls and
Turquoise, 27s 6d ; smaller size, 17s 6d.
df
9c., 10/, 12'6, 15/, 20/.
15c., 20', 22/6, 27 6.
18c., 21/, 25', 30/,
With any name or
Motto, Is extra*
\
Solid Gold
and
Shark’s Tooth
Pendant
BROOCH,
13s 6d.
Solid Gold
Mounted
Shark's Tooth
PENDANT,
6s 6d.
All Goods sent
Post Free.
sd
The New CENTURY GOLD BEOOOH,
Latest London Novelty, 10s 6d.
New Rustic liar. Ivy and Pearl-set
Bird Brooch, 11s 6d each.
i
Solid Gold Motto Brooch, 11s 6d.
Also, same Style in Souvenir, Regard,
Good Luck, and Mizpah.
Solid Gold and Real Amethyst, 8s 6d.
Our New Wild Boar’s Tusk
BROOCH,
with Chain and Bell
Pendant,
fsd
Liver Mounted,
6s 6d.
Gold Mounted
14s.
Solid Gold,
14s pair.
With any Monogram
50 other Patterns.
)
18c., Half-Hoop, 5 fine
Diamonds, £7 10.
Smaller Stones, 14, 15,
£6. 2 fine Diamonds
w ith 3 Sapphires, Rubies,
Opals, or Pearls, £3, £4,
£5. 6 Lovely Opals, 455,
50s, 555.
5 LOVELY OPALS.
10c., 425, small size, 355.
15c., 50s, ~ ~ 455.
18c., 555, „ „ 50s.
f
Solid Gold, set with 5
Turquoise, 10s 6d ; or
Pearl and Turquoise,
12s 6d; 5 Opals, 15s
and 21s.
ijm~ Please send for Our Illustrated
SLIPS OF NOVELTIES.
Magnificent BROOCH, lbc. Gold,
Set with 5 Diamonds and 2 Rubies, Sapphires,
or Opals, 70s.
cw
m ::
iii
*2l
13s €(1 each.
Gold Two-bar
BROOCH,
w ii ii Amethyst &
(Jliain Pendant,
New Gold Cross Broorh, with Raised
Mizpah and Bird, 12s 6d.
15c., 1 Diamond and 2 Rubies or Sapphires, 425.
THOUSANDS OF OTHER PATTERNS.


Business Announcements.
QeUular “^ertex”
For Base,
Health aad
Comfort.
IJnderwear.
during SUMMER, is*
Ladies’ Department:
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc., in Lisle, Cotton, Silk and
Cotton, Silk and Wool, Natural Wool,
Merino, and Pure silk.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, eto.
CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
lhread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Patterns posted on application.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
Oavid graham (o
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and lOUNG. w
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing- Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, ver3 r superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to anj' address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. fid.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
USB
Spooler’s
I
IROYAL NAVYDRESSIKC
B FOR
I BROWN
l it'BOOTS at SHOES
Hi; OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIRECTIONS FOR USE
mum
;
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning- and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
Medical.
I Cure Fits.
You are
notasked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus' Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi-
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. ROOT,sB, Endsleigfc Gdns., LO N DO N.
Iks LiqCior Habit.
A N
INTERESTING PAMPHLET on the
Disease of Drunkenness and its cure by
ECicrasy
will be sent free (sealed) on
application to the EUGRASY
GO., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney, or 271 Collins-
street, Melbourne.
N.B. —Eucrasy is registered by the N.S.W.
Registrar-General at the Trade Marks Office, and
is the only remedy which can be given secretly
(i.e., without the subject’s knowledge) with cer-
tainty of success.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inOIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMADLT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
IN
sdf
for all forms of
Kidney & Liver Disorders
DISEASE
sd
ITT
ail
RELIABLE FURNITURE!
■ AAAAAAAAAiAAAAAAAiAAAAAAAA
CARPETS, BEDSTEADS AND BEDDING
AND WHERE TO GET IT.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
CORNER GEORGE AND LIVERPOOL STREETS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE,
in Tapestry and Plush, Couch, Pair Easy
Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for .£3 10s.
50 others, 5, 10, to 20 guineas,
At HALL’S.
DINING-ROOM SUITE,
Very Strong, all Spring-seated and Padded-
Back Chairs, 6 guineas.
20 others, 7, 12, and 20 guineas,
at HALL’S.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Colour,
Wardrobe, Plate-glass Door and Drawers ;
Duchesse Chest Drawers, with glass at-
tached ; Marble-top Washstand, Towel
Rad, and Cane Chair, .£6 15s.
30 Bedroom Suites to select from.
Full Size HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Brass Rail, Double-wire Mattress, and
Sec Best Bedding, .£3 15s.
50 LATEST DESIGN BEDSTEADS
to select from at HALL’S.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE FURNISHERS, 561, 563, 565 and 567 GEORGE ST.
Leave Tram or ’Bus at Liverpool-street for HALL’S.
Country Orders packed Free. New Illustrated Furnishing Guide Post Free.
The Life of the System.
imasu
S. FREEMAN SONS L™™
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN'S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
heap office: WTNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY
REGISTERED
1
S®?
£f4«|BKt«s
BEFFECTIVECB
Blight Iwlailks&esliLujs
Weak Eyes Dimness ET?
m&m
53ICEORCE ST
VTABUtHEP >‘as*
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR —"
ROSS’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Dyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used by Rifle Shooters and Professional Men of all Classtti
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal sue-,
cess on the Byes of
Cattle, .Sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STO REKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
531 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
4
r". <v
mrnmm
P
I
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tirea of STOMACH DRUGGING
ana disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
. ELECTRIC AG APPLIANCES, invented bj
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon
j strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention,
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra, powerful, with suspensory
atlaihments. .. .. .. ..330
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and i
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, i
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &e.
All communications should be addressed to — I
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney I
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE. Follow
the Footsteps of the Wise, and Buy the Best, Cheapest,
and most Stylish Clothing in Australia from
Lincoln, Stuart & Go. Proprietary Ltd,
252 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station).
5000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Our Suit to Order, at 42/-,
is marvellous value, made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Serges, fast colors,
is perfect fitting, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cycling Suits, 35/-
Riding Breeches, 25/-. Water-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Riding Habits, etc.
Wesupplyßeady-madeMen’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-. Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serge Trou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over-
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys' Clothing in Australia. Ele-
gant Tennis Shirts from 2,6. Undressed White Shirts,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm Travelling
Rugs, 13 6. Gent’s splendid Balmoral Boots, 66, 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hats, 46, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 66. Caps, 1/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1/-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. And all
classes of Gent.’s Mercery.
We like to write letters, so please don’t be afraid to ask
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy of Dress,
also Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
posted Free. Write for them.
\
Publications.
“Open-Air Treatment of Con-
sumption,”
By DR. ALf'RED NEALE.
Turner and Henderson, Sydney. Post, Is. 7d
Books. .H o olts. Books.
TDOPULAR EDUCATOR—£S for £1- 6s. The Home
- 1 - Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for £l. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. 6d. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, hound half calf, up-to-date’edition, 10 vols.,
£7 10s. for £2 15s. The History of Australian Bushrang-
ing, Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper.
R.W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streec, Sydney.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
ILLUSTRATED
m
■YTTITH numerous anatomical
* ' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
m
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
4201 BOUKXE-ST., MELBOURNE.
y',
FRENCH- •
• • NCVELS
translated into English
Genuine Editions.
Post Free, 1/3, 2/-, and
3/- each.
Madame PANZA,
Box 913,
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers’ Encyclopedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by this book unlocks the gats and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also abouc
dress persona l appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
letters and FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit-bitsin prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps, 2d. extra)
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness with one.you love. Anoi.o-Ameiiioan Publishing
Co., Commercial chambers, Sydney. N.S.W. Mention this
paper when writing
FOREIGS-KT STJVMIFS
n
ii
*
war
CJETS 4 Soudan (Camee) Is' 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautema.'a U i.d)
Is'; 6 Newfoundland (new issue),
Is 6d ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s 6d; lz Luxemburg;, Is;
9 British Borneo (new
picture issue. 3s ud ; 8 Bosnia, 6d ;
60 Spain, -is Packets 30 different,
o ... „ 6d . :iii, Is, 100, 2s 6d;150, ss.
Remit by P. 0.0. P.ls /' us. catalogues of albums and
stamps post free.Stanr s purchased. CHARLES B
DONNE, 346 Ltle Coilins-street, MELBOURNE. *
Medical.
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be
infected with
COW-SHEDS,
regularly dis-
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1 6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
Dear Sir.—Please inform your readers that I have been
eur.d of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
to all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers
Pitt-street, Sydney. *


ANOTHER RADICAL CURE.
To Convince Sceptical Readers or Unbelievers
X:M:iT.A.TO:R,S COPY BUT BIVAL.
Dyspepsia and Neuralgia Promptly Cured.
The Case ov
MRS. ELIZABETH PHIPPS.
(Reported for “ The Redfern Times.”)
Within gunshot of Redfern Railway
terminus our reporter found the residence
of Mrs. Elizabeth Phipps, at 41S£ Elizabeth-
street, Surry Hills. This lady was at home,
and, in answer to enquiry, freely gave
an account of her recovery from a serious
case of ansemia and distressing neuralgia.
“My general health has not been good
since 1 was a child,” said Mrs. Phipps. “ I
was not strong, and some months ago I got
into an exceptionally low state. My diges-
tion became impaired ; I lost my appetite,
and had no taste for food I had, at times,
a sharp pain between the shoulders and in
the left side, but my most distressing
symptoms were neuralgic pains that, coming
up my neck, spread all over my head and
face with unbearable pain. At last this
pain became so serious that it affected my
eyes; they became weak and dazed. This
was followed by a nervous, trembling pain
in the arms, especially the right arm, so
that I thought I was going to be paralysed.
My husband tried to laugh me out of my
fears. I noticed that the neuralgia pains
were worse in hot weather, and always came
on towards sundown, and, continuing in the
night, robbed me of sleep. Towards
morning these pains would ease, but only to
return again the next night. Sometimes,
when I tried to lie down, suffering from this
terrible neuralgia, my throat would seem to
swell, my breathing became difficult, and I
felt as though someone was trying to
smother me. This feeling was so distressing
that even if I could have gone to sleep I
felt my breathing would have ceased.
Naturally, I was distressed, and in very
low spirits.”
“ What remedies did you try, Mrs.
Phipps ? ” enquired the reporter.
“I took a mixture from the chemist’s
and advertised preparations, but they were
far from improving my general health, and
very soon my neuralgic pains returned as
badly as before.”
“ What did you try next?”
“By accident I came across one of the
pamphlets of Clements Tonic, and, on read-
ing the testimonials, I found the names of
several persons I knew This gave me
confidence. I knew what was said was
genuine, and I became convinced that
Clements Tonic would suit my case and
cure me. This is how I came to purchase
the first bottle.”
“ And what wasthe result, Mrs. Phipps ? ”
“After taking the fourth dose, that is,
on the second day—for I took Clements
Tonic three times a day—l noticed a decided
change for the better, and as I continued
to take it the improvement was perceptible
and constant. I know it was Clements
Tonic that did me good, for, owing to our
changing house and being very busy, I
neglected for a short time to take Clements
Tonic, and I found that during that time
my cure was retarded. The first and most
welcome sign I had that Clements Tonic
was doing me good was the return of my
appetite. I could cat my meals ; and, after
that, all my other pains went away ; or,
rather, they did not come again, as they
used to do, pai ticularly the terrible pains in
my face and head that had come every night
so regularly and made sleep impossible.
Only last week I recommended a friend of
mine, who is in a very low state of health
from overwork, to take Clements Tonic,
and already it is doing her good.”
“Have you any objection, Mrs. Phipps,
to your experience being made public ?”
“Not at all. You can freely add my
name to the numbers of those I know wno
cannot speak too well of Clements Tonic.
It is a grand medicine.” *, v
' STATUTORY DECLARATION
I, Elizabeth Pmprs, of 41SJ Elizabeth street, Surry
Hills, in tile colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly ana sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting of three
folios and consecutively numbered from one to
three, and that ft contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and
also contains my full permission to publish the same in
any way; and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled “ An Act for the more effectual abolition of
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the
various Departments of the Government of New
South Wales, and to substitute Declarations in lieu
thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary and
extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits,”
Declared at Surry Hills, this Ist day of July, on
thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine, before me,
w. j. mcdonneel. j.p
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
TUB FAMOUS REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pam or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d ; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cnjbrocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
' offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’S €n)brocatioi)-
“Tb€ R€AL MACKAY”
FINEST OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & Attwood, Sole Proprietors.
“ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
LADIES 2
>'■' Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of every description in stock. Agents for the Koyal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales . . .
Barbers’ Supply Souse
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
Smelting; Go. of Australia
(LIMITED),
DA.PXO (Lrake Illawarra), near SYDKTBY*
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OP
FINE SILVER.
11 illlißi
:
M
.
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW AURA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S. W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food f ° r
Infants
9
FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &0., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
HVAU
AND


EDWARDS
w
fsd
f
THE CHEAT
HAIR PRODUCER^RESTORER
The Very Finest Dressing.
A LUXURY AND A
Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
necessity to eyery modern toilet.
m
n.
m
Restores the Hair
Promotes the Growth
Arrests the Fall
Strengthens the Roots
Preserves the Hair
Removes Dandruff
Allays all Irritation
■ HARLENE*
Preserves,
Strengthens and
Invigorates
Children’s Hair.
m s
/
■ri/l
Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle of Druggists &0., all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK ought to contain A BOTTLE of
ENO’S 4 FRUIT SALT 9
A Simple Remedy for Preventing 1 & Curing 1 by Natural Means
An Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
mm
m
■■
■ &
•m
SMALL-POX, SCARLET FEVER, PYAEMIA, ERYSIPELAS,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. I Lave Leen a nurse
tor ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pysemia.erysipe as, j
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Enos Fr
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to aUmy
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot
over estimated.”— A Pbofessional Nurse (Qualified).
tuc tctpi'T n 1 * FMI1’ 1 ? * FRUIT SALT 1 ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ON .
With ° Ut * y -° U kaVea
Prepared only by J. C.EKO, Ltd., at the' FRUIT SALT»WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
solely -for Toilet Soap was obtained by
ilk.
''
KEPUBLIO’
SRAIgAIS
| A.& F. PEARS i;
Reduced Facsimile
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by th:
jurors of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal Highness
The Prince
of Wales,
Dorothy’s Prince.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dorothy dwelt in Dingotown,
Hard by the Lachlan’s banks of brown.
Never a lad
Dorothy had,
Never a lover to ride long miles
Merely to bask in her warm red smiles.
She was so proud
Sweethearts were cowed,
Horsebreakers e’en of wide renown
Left her at peace in Dingotown.
Once they were thick as bees that hum
Over the flow’rs when Spring has come ;
Never a day
Journeyed away
Bringing no horse with a rider bold,
Ready to offer his heart of gold.
Dorothy laughed,
Dorothy chaffed,
Said that she’d rather have stumps of gum,
Singing her epithalamium.
Dorothy dwelt in Dingotown,
Dreaming alone when the sun went down
Soft were her eyes,
Soft were the skies,
Sweet was the thrill in the dusky air,
Sweet was the thrill in her heart, and fain
Fairer than flame,
Visions that came,
Visions of love and the orange-crown—
Dorothy’s dowerlin Dingotown.
Dorothy’s delicate shell-like ear
Ever was tuned the sounds to hear—
Beat, beat, and beat,
Down the long street,
Clanging of horse-hoofs that should evince
Coming at last of her Fairy Prince ;
Over the ridge,
Over the bridge,
Riding, swift-riding, her Cavalier,
Prince of her Dreams, her Prince drew near.
Dorothy stood at her door one eve,
Watching the City of Make-Believe,
Column-and spire,
Sink with the Are,
Dying upon the horizon’s rim,
Fading out softly into the dim
Dusk of the night—
l. V Then came a light
Sourfu that the still dense air did cleave—
Beat' wild hoofs —in her dream to weave
“ Horse comes a-gallopin’ hard as hell,”
So they remarked in the Bush Hotel,
Quaintly and curt,
“ Rider is hurt —
Can’t hold his horse in. Bet you a crown !
Here is his spill-mark. God ! he’s down ! ”
Swift as a white
Ghost in the night
Dorothy sped—as folk still tell—
Straight to the place where the horseman fell.
Dorothy’s sire was sour and swift,
Sudden-tongued lover got sudden shrift,
But when a chap
Dropped in his lap
Speechless and stunned—well, what could he do ?
Just made a guest of him. So would you.
Dorothy too —
Dorothy knew,
Knew that her Prince by his charger biffed
Into her arms had come as a gift.
Dorothy’s Dad is kind and free,
Better companion could not be,
Pills up his glass,
Calls me an ass,
Laughs himself hoarse —I never wince— ■
Laughs himself sore at Dorothy’s Prince.
Good grey old man,
Laugh while you can,
Laugh till you’re black—for it won’t hurt me !
. . . Dorothy’s Dad is mine, you see.
CREEVE ROE.
The Demoralisation of Quigley.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The story of Quigley is the story of a man with a
weak chm who gave way to drink ; it is either a
temperance lecture or a psychological study,
according to the mental bias of the reader.
Quigley has a queer sort of interest for me because
I watched Ids beery slide into the pit. (I write
“pit ” with a small “p” of malice prepense—as I
would write Quigley with a small “ q ” but that it
would look eccentric.)
He was a young man when I knew him first,
and he had a rather pretty wife—a very good wife,
too, she would have been, if Quigley hadn’t had a
weak chin, or hadn’t given way to drink. He was
a handy young fellow —could canvass, collect, deal
and gather in the needful in divers ways and life
opened out before him like a smooth and level
road before a touring biker. Perhaps it was the
very facility with which he made a living that
caused Quigley to lose interest in the game so
early. A little struggling at the outset might
have stiffened his character a bit. Anyhow, he
soon added to his other gifts the fatal one of caus-
ing long beers to vanish apparently by magic.
The exercise of this talent soon took up so much
of his time that there remained very little to
devote to the sordid business of earning money,
which, besides, grew ever more, and more distaste-
ful. Pretty soon Quigley’s horizon was more than
three parts obscured by the rising of a long-
sleever in front of it. .
Those were days when I thought it possible to
reform a “drunk.” But I might as well have
attempted to hold a pint of water in my two hands
as hold Quigley out of the beery pit into which he
gravitated. .
Mrs. Quigley found time to have two pretty
little girls while Quigley was engaged in his long-
beer magic. She was a woman to whom resigna-
tion comes as a sort of second nature. She took
Quigley as a matter of course, as if she had never
hoped for anything better. And she took the
things that kind people gave her and the remarks
that unkind people made in the same undemon-
strative way as she accepted Quigley. She was
not withered or prematurely aged by the misery
and squalor of her life; never looking ahead, she
was not disheartened by the blank outlook. It
seemed as if nothing could shake her limp serenity
or rouse her from her invincible calm. Her look
might not be hopeful, but neither was it despair-
ing or even weary. It was indifferent; and she pre-
served her appearance of a pretty girl with nothing
in her. Hers was the abject resignation of a weak,
colorless nature placed in miserable surroundings.
I have known one or two ladies of comfortable
position who would have been exactly like Mrs.
Quigley in her circumstances. She was one of
those impalpable creatures which an avalanche is
powerless to injure. It was in vain that life
crushed her as it always crushes the weak; she
emerged unconscious of the pressure to which she
had been subjected. It was like pouring a ton of
coals on top of a ghost.
Quigley himself was unfortunate enough to have
the beginnings of a brain over his weak chin, and
also to possess nerves or something which punished
him horribly whenever they got a chance. These
nerves or brain-cells, or whatever they were,
assumed a sort of lordship over him and purported
to be his conscience. But in time Australian beer
sapped their power and eventually brought them
down from their high estate. I had hopes of
Quigley as long as he wore that abashed look
which told me that his supposed conscience was
still active ; but I felt that the last bit of blue sky
on his horizon would be soon shut out by the beer
pewter unless something happened.
Something did happen, and my hopes rose high.
(I was very callow then, and could not raise any
Mephistophelian enjoyment over Quigley’s sordid
slide.)
Quigley had a cousin, who looked rarely upon
the beer when it frothed, neither did he gaze very
hard at any strong waters —but the loveliness of
woman found great favor in his eye. He saw. the
Quigley household sinking deeper and deeper into
the mire of poverty, and in the goodness of his
heart he came to the rescue. The hash-houses
where he had sojourned for many years knew his
face no more, and Mrs. Quigley accepted him as
a boarder, in the same meek, unmoved way as she
accepted all things else.
Quigley, who now absolved himself entirely
from the obligation of working for his beer, found
no fault with the arrangement; but ere long the
tail-end of his self-respect rose up in flabby pro-
test. But my fond hopes fell to zero when, one
day, I saw my weak-chinned friend emerging
from the “Morning Star” with the. foam of a
recent “long-un” clinging to his bristly beard,
and his cousin following him, a cigar in his teeth,
and a more than usually hideous squint in his
close-set eyes. Esau had sold something more
precious than his birth-right for —a glass of beer.
I turned away in sickness of disgust, and carried
that fell squint in my memory for many a day.
His was a peculiar face—he had. two large front
teeth that seemed to rest upon his lower hp, and
his squint was wonderful to behold. A look .01
power supplied all that was needed to make him
irresistible to women of the class of Mrs. Quigley.
That lady presently blessed her beery husband
with a son, but that gentleman rejoiced not—nor
did he join in the smiles of the neighbors when
the little innocent, who already squinted awfully,
developed two large front teeth that rested on his
chubby little lower lip. Mrs. Quigley accepted
the awkward resemblance, and said nothing.
Quigley, after much cogitation, came to the con-
clusion that it behoved him to kick his sup-
planter out and resume possession of his house-
hold. As he needed moral support, he confided
in me, and I aided and abetted him in his design.
I kept him sober all day, and then, having forti-
fied him with three specially long glasses, led him
to his dwelling and waited.
Presently there was a confused sound of scuffling
and profanity, and then a form shot out on to the
pavement. It was Quigley’s.
After this he continued to eke out a precarious
existence on the occasional and uncertain beer.
Another little stranger appeared, with the squint
and later on the teeth, but it made no difference
to Quigley. Sometimes he slept in the gutter,
sometimes he was allowed to repose in the fowl-
house through the kindness of his cousin. On
special occasions, his wife let him into a back room,
where he wept beery tears over his miserable lot.
There was only one deeper circle into which he
could descend—the depth in which he would not
even know that his lot was miserable. _
Quigley was spared that last depth. _ And just
here, I grieve to say, the moral of this bald and
squalid tale goes awry as far as he is concerned
but then real life is seldom either moral or artistic.
An old and despised relative died in rags and
wretchedness, and the banknotes and deposit re-
ceipts that he left went to Quigley, as next of kin,
just as that miserable pariah was about to touch
bottom in the pit which is supposed to be bottom-
With an income of £2OO a year, Quigley has be-
come less beery, but considerably more revengeful.
His revenge, however, is of the passive order.
Comfortably housed in a pleasant suburb, his two
pretty little girls keep him partially sober till they
retire to their innocent cots. Then, assisted by
bottled beer, he gloats over the parlous case of his
cousin, who, with only £lOO a year very hardly
earned, and an increasing family of squint-eyed
children with large front teeth, snares a cramped
residence, in a narrow street, with a large, pale,
lymphatic woman, no longer attractive and rapidly
going into flesh. I saw. Quigley the other day.
He is beery still —exceedingly beery, but on
a year he carries it off with a F abstain an aplomb
most impressive; and on the whole he will pro-
bably die in a much stronger odor of sanctity
than his sober cousin.
L. COLONNA.
“ Melb.” : Melb. Public Library trustees
have just issued an octavo, which a lot of outsiders
would like to read. I presume it will be sold
cheap. In 1853 Governor Latrobe collected, from
58 Victorian squatting pioneers, little autobio-
graphic sketches of their work in this region, his
intention being to write a history of Victoria. In
1872, he sent all these memos, to James Graham,
M.L.C., who gave them to the Public Library,
where they have been embalmed ever since.
Going through the book, in which they are now
published (dated 1899), I find that the contribution
of Robertson, of Colac, is much the best. He
mentions the great sagacity of a sheep-dog. The
blacks speared the shepherd and drove off 700
sheep, out of 1500. The dog tried to round-up the
remaining 800, and take them home. However,
he could only manage 300, which he brought back
safely, late at night, to Gibson’s station. In the
morning, he led Gibson over to the spot where the
shepherd lay dead.


HOW WILL YOUR BACK
BE AT SEVENTY-FIVE?
IDCLA.IT’S
Backache Kidney Fills
DOING GREAT WORK!
mm -a
..4
mm
-vgg^fl
»
K
mmm,
mm
m//,
■KHRHHI
Ml
BPJ
m
I
WFMmWMa
sSJr//A
WMm
, i m
y/'/
l/A
IH
WJMMWMIWWM liffiiliiiilii
%
ml i
111
HWi
■■IM
k-.S
M
111
I
•»w
■ii«i
v>>
-_V'\
x <€il
v'XvV
mm**
"^msmsssssm
MB. B. CBAWFOBD.
The man in the picture is It. Crawford, of
Smeaton Road, Clunes, Victoria. He is seventy-
five years of age. He looks and talks like a vigor-
ous man. He IS vigorous for his age.
The title of this article was suggested by a con-
versation recently held with Mr. Crawford, in
which he talked'of kidney trouble, and its effects
on the back. He gave an account of his own
experience with this trouble, which will bear
repetition for the benefit it may bring to others
who have found themselves in a similar condition.
. “An aching pain in the small of my back was a
perpetual torment to me for years,” said Mr.
Crawford. “My back was so bad I could not rise
after stooping, except with the greatest difficulty.
I had other signs of kidney disease, as the kidney
secretions were unnatural and my sleep was un-
settled. I want to say to you that I have obtained
relief by the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, which cleared up the kidney secretions and
improved my back; and I want to recommend
this medicine as a good kidney medicine not only
to any old people of my age, but to any and all
who have any signs of kidney trouble. You are at
liberty to publish these facts if you wish. They
are true and may help others.”
Don’t Neglect.
A COMMON CASE OE PILES.
IT MAY LEAD TO SERIOUS RESULTS.
When people generally understand that all such
fatal diseases as fistula, ulcer of the rectum, fissure,
&c., almost invariably begin in a simple case of
piles, they will learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance of trouble in this
quarter. Doan’s Ointment will certainly cure
every form of piles—itching, bleeding, protruding,
and blind piles—and hundreds of lives have been
saved by using this cheap and effective remedy
right at the start, because at such times a single
pot will effect a cure, while the old, deep-seated,
chronic cases, several pots are sometimes necessary
before a cure is effected. Here is a case in point:
Mr. William Gulliver, of the well-known firm of
Gulliver and Curtis, Railway and General Con-
tractors, and whose private address is “Avoca,”
Bankstown, has written the following unsolicited
letter, which we herewith publish in full: —
Messrs. Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Feb. 14th, 1899.
Dear Sirs,—ln justice to you and suffering
humanity, I write to say that I suffered from itch-
ing piles for 22 years. I tried many doctors, and
pretty well all kinds of patent medicines, but got
relief for a short time only. Seeing you Ointment
advertised, I bought a pot—and did not use more
Now Mr. Crawford is an old man. He suffered
from kidney trouble as many old people do. He
was relieved by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
and his life prolonged.
Is there not food for reflection in Mr. Craw-
ford’s statement both for other aged people and
any and all who have any form of kidney trouble?
Bear in mind that kidney disease attacks the
young as well as the old, and that backache is one
of the first signs of its approach.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills go straight to
the kidneys. They heal and tone up the urinary
organs, as nothing else can do. They are a splendid
kidney medicine. If your back aches, remember
Doan’s Bachache Kidney Pills —“D-O-A-N-S.”
How will YOUR back be at 75 ?
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
may be had of all chemists and storekeepers at
2/9 per box, or six boxes for 15/3, or will be
posted on receipt of price by the proprietors from
any of our branches as followsFoster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney (main office) ; 292
Flinders-street, Melbourne; 54 King William-
street, Adelaide ; 341 Murray-street, Perth, W.A.;
Eagle-street, Brisbane; Elliott Bros., St. John-
street, Launceston, care Fairthorne & Son.
Don’t forget the name D-O-A-N-S.
than one-half of it, now six months ago—and I am
perfectly cured. You may use this as you wish.—
Yours gratefully, WILLIAM GULLIVER.
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching piles. It will Cure
them absolutely. But do not take the manufac-
turer’s word for this ; ask or write Mr. Gilliver.
He knows, for it cured him, and he lives at Banks-
town, a suburb 12 miles from Sydney. Is not that
the best possible kind of proof ? Could there be
better ?
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot free by mail who will send us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. W e know that this ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles
or Eczema for a single moment. Doan’s Ointment
will cure them absolutely; but do not take our
word for it, send a penny stamp for a sample box.
The large size box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes, log. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally
from your chemist or storekeeper, same will be
posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention The
Bulletin.
In re Billy Keats.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At 6 a.m. on Creation Day the Lord made out his
lists —
A brake to the rain, and a spur to the sun, and a
governor for the mists 1
A white suit He gave to the Polar bear to help him
live in the snow,
And a spring to the heel of the kangaroo wheresoever
they go ;
And He gave unto man a conscience to be king of all
his acts,
And a saving sense of proportion to help him mea-
sure facts —
To show him the way of his duty—in the ice or
thro ’ the fire —
To die in the glare of the limelight—or to struggle
for life in the mire ;
Duty for some in the battle—duty for some in the
house —
Duty for some to be militant man—duty for some to
be mouse,
And nothing esteems He so highly in the way of the
foulest crime
As the man who spits on his duty for the passing
praise of the time.
So over Billy Keats’ bones, I carve of these end-
less laws—
“ Man’s duty is ever man’s duty, with or without
applause.”
• * * *
Fruit pulp to the topmost storey—tinplates to the
basement floor —
And men who reeked fruit odors sang down the
shoot for more;
The middle of Apricot Week, and the fruit still
fresh from the tree,
And scores of tons yet waiting to be pulped for
oversea.
At the tinsmiths’ bench, crouched under the roof,
in the charcoal fume and haze,
The solderers closed the eternal jam through the
everlasting days;
The soldering iron was never cold —the spirit ever
flowed —
The only outside sounds they heard were the
hawkers’ cries from the road ;
The daily burn from the charcoal fire, and the
stink of the endless fruit,
And fortnightly fights at the fortnight’s pay with
the chance of the sack to boot;
Nine-pence a gross for closing (one hundred and,
forty-four)
Nine-pence, and find your solder, and thank God
that they find the store;
Twelve gross a day is a day for a man, working
early and late,
Two cans a minute tots in the day seventeen
hundred and twenty-eight,
Home at dusk if you’re decent, and glad to be
home with your kids ;
Away from the sickening fruit smells, away from
the soldered lids;
Soak in a pub, if you’re careless, and come to the
bench next day
With the fumes of the beer in your head-piece
docking a gross from your pay.
* * * *
Apricot Week had ended —but never for Billy
Keats
Was the work change more than a change of cans,
or the contents a change of sweets;
Fourteen years as boy and man he had soldered
and closed the can
Of fourteen damson seasons to sweeten his fellow
man;
As boy and youth he had held his bench and now
as the father of five
He soldered and closed at ninepence a gross to
keeps his folks alive;
Spirits of salts had corned his hands so that his
skin did die;
The work’s dead level kippered him —the brazier
smoked him dry;
And he cried aloud for something new as the tor-
tured pray for death
Cried for aught but the solder steel, with a prayer
in every breath.
• » * *
A brand new barber’s clerk came up with some
new subscription sheets—
“ This is the line, and the sum’s your choice that
you’ll ante, Billy Keats ;
Five bob for the Patriotic Fund as loyal workmen
should,”
And he mouthed of “ Empire” and “Glory,” and
Keats, he listened like wood.
But he promised to give the subscription, (which
meant at the ruling rate,
Nearly seven gross of closing—nearly a thousand
and eight) ;
But the loose-mouthed talk of “ Empire ” and
“ Glory ” had caught him fast,
And he soldered his cans in a day-dream—he had
found something new at last.
He saw thro’ the fumes of the charcoal a little hill
in a plain,
And himself all horsed and booted, charge the hill
through the leaden rain ;
On his housings were crimson purfles—in his soul
was a Viking deed —
(A deed that proves frustraneous —when your foe
is of,similar breed).
There were Boers that he shot, and Boers that he
lanced, and Boers he killed with his sword;
And afterwards —virgins, and bands of brass, and a
little nod from a lord.
And he hated the solder and salts more than ever
he’d loathed them before,
And he hated the stench of the raw, ripe fruit in
the bins on the sorting floor ;
And the squalid street in Richmond, and the
Saturday haggling for pay,
And the gross he closed that was missing, and the
awful average day.
He’d go with tne next contingent—he was sick
and tired of the life—
He’d go to find glory and change—and what would
become of the wife ?
• • • •
He thought it over and over that night as he lay
by her side,
And she slept the sleep of the weary (0, quickly-
faded bride !)
She would fret, of course, when he’d gone, but
she’d somehow manage to live,
(A man can always make answer, rest to his con-
science to give).
They’d be right, for Kate was plucky—(“dear
young old girl of mine),
I love ’em, but oh ! the glory, the stir, and the
change, and the shine !
Sick am lof the benches —I must have change or
die —
The change to the clean, sweet troopship, and the
plain with the sun in the eye.”
And then his old self to him spake, crying out
against this sin,
And said, “ Leave the war to its makers and let
the greater win—
God hath given thee thy duty, and it is straight
and clean, *
And your guerdon and glory are both of the best—
a love neither selfish nor mean.
What has Australia to do with the fight of the
foreign man’s ?
Australia has no quarrel—stick to your soldered
cans.
God made a blue wall to this land—a wall to this
great whito isle—
To keep the old world factions out—to weaken the
old world guile.
War shall not venture to our coasts, if but our
men are free—
The Lord hath given us bulwarks in three thou-
sand leagues of sea.
What if thy soul is [sick of the awful deadness of
. life,
Hath she no wish for a change, thy stale and
monotonous wife ?
Marriage for women like these is duller than can
be for man—
Bearing and suckling and weeping—to realise sex
and her ban,
You’ve one true mate in all the world, and that
true mate is here.
Keep her young by your kindness—a wrinkle is
more than a year.
She smothers her wants in affection—she chides
_ her desire for a change.
Think you the creek is forgotten—the murmurous
creek in the range;
That she thinks not of glens at the Bern tree, nor
the plan of your courting that day,
Nor the stooks at the Horsham harvest, nor the
fields of the new-moon hay.
The change that thou seest is fair, but fairer are
love and duty —
Thy war is against the wolf that destroys the
children’s beauty.
And all. the fine, purpling velvet, and the pomp
and the ruddy gold,
Shall they be your wife’s mangild ?—no, never a
, coin nor fold,
None will give the children a crust nor make thy
widow a queen
(Because of thy kingly deeds), when thy grass puts
, on its green.
Relief funds are not fathers, and charity is not a
sire,
And the public dole to the widow cannot quench
; her desire.
Here is your duty—your war—stand by it and to
it —a man
Gan find equal glory in killing another, or solder-
ing a can.
It is only the way that you do it, for glory lies in
. degree,
To. be the Most Thorough Dustman or the
• Highest Berg at Sea.
But the man’s Desire spake up and said, “ My
soul cries out for change—
Give me the swirl of a flooded stream, or the sight
of the sun on a range ;
I go, and none can stay me—Love warms not dead
Desire;
Gold can not bribe the granite—wood can not calm
the fire !”
Then the man’s old self in anger cried, “So soon
do you forget
With your careless doffing of garments, and your
careless denial of debt.
The woman is thine and of thee—the children thy
bone and blood ;
And you, the bee on the petal; she the fading
bloom of the bud.
Go to the hollow glory, and the change that will
slake your drouth,
And the loose-lipped brag of Kipling who killed
poetry with his mouth,
Haste to your newest pastures—leave the wife a
navvy’s farewell ;
And send your babes to the gutter—and your soul
to a first-class Hell.”
• • * •
Apricot Week sees Billy Keats no more by his
closing bench—
He went to fight without a cause—and he left his
leg in a trench—
And his soul left him in hospital—(no brass band
in the scene) — ' v_ ■ . -
And while his widow slowly starves his grave puts
on its green—
And over his virescent mound I carve of the
primal laws—
“ Man’s duty is ever man’s duty”—with or with-
out applause.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Bridge.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We drove from Dunedin to Waitati in a drag, and
it was generally admitted that Dalrymple was the
life and soul of the party. He and I remained at
the hotel to attend to the horses and get some
additional provisions, while the others proceeded
across the railway bridge to the beach beneath the
cliffs.
Dalrymple and I followed soon afterwards each
laden with a couple of picnic baskets. The bridge
is 70 feet long and 45 feet above the water. The
rails are laid on ironbark girders, and for the
benefit of surfacemen and platelayers a twelve-inch
plank is laid between the rails.
Dalrymple took the bridge first, but had not
gone far before he was seized with panic. His
knees trembled, and as he looked back atme his face
was deathly pale. Then he crouched down with
eyes riveted on the water —paralysed with tfear !
I relieved him of his baskets and got him back to
terra firma. It was a considerable time before I
could induce him to make another attempt, but at
last, by allowing him to hold onto my shoulders, I
got him over the bridge. I well remember how he
trembled, and how his heart beat as we shuffled
across the plank.
We walked along the railway-line in silence.
Only once did he speak. “How did the girls
cross ? ” he asked hoarsely.
“Just as you did,” I said, “ holding someone
by the shoulders.”
“What a coward you must think me!” Dal-
rymple said, looking at me with wistful eyes.
“Oh,” I said, “nervousness is nob necessarily
cowardice! ”
We soon joined the party on the beach, and
Dalrymple’s depression was accounted for by ,a
headache. In a shamefaced way he remained
with the girls, and I saw very little of him during
the day.
Before starting for home, we decided to have a
swim in the channel through which the sea flows in
over an expanse of sand and mud flat. But as the
tide was now ebbing, the current was much stronger
than we had expected, and almost before we
had realised what had happened young Morgan
was carried into the open water. _ We heard his
cry for help, and some of us were in the act of fol-
lowing when Dalrymple rushed up.
“ Stop ! ” he shouted, “ It is my right to go ! ”
and, plunging off the steep, shelving sand, he
swam towards the boy.
The current took them out rapidly, until we
could only get an occasional glimpse of their
heads. They were together, however, and
Dalrymple was evidently supporting the boy.
Presently, seeing that they drifted in a curving
course towards a sandbank about a mile from
where we stood, we ran in that direction, and
arrived in time to pull them out of the breakers.
We soon revived Morgan, but Dalrymple was
dead.
CURRA CURRA.


Given up for Dead.
Restored to Perfect Health”
Only three bottles cure severe lameness from
rheumatism, flesh is regained, eyesight improved,
and natural health returns.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
££
k
%
2?
y
im
n
\
r
U I have been a great sufferer from rheumatism and liver complaint, and
was very lame.
“My brother, who was very ill, was given up for dead by the doctors. But
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla put new life in him, and he and my father, hearing I was so
ill, recommended this medicine to me. Before I had taken three bottles I felt
improved. My lameness began to leave me and I began to feel like a new
woman. I also regained much flesh which I had lost. Strange though it may
seem, my eyesight, which had become weak, gradually became stronger, until it
was perfectly natural.”
This testimony from Mrs. Mary Bright (whose portrait is here given), of Cor-
nish Town, Cobar, New South Wales, must strongly impress all who read it.
It tells of the wonderful power of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to drive disease out of
the system.
How could a testimonial tell more?* How could a remedy do more? Put
your confidence in Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Because other medicines have failed should not discourage you. One great
medicine is left for you—Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It acts directly on the blood,
takes out all impurities.
AYEffS Sargfeia
It Makes the Blood Pure, Rich, and Red.
Ayer’s Pills are Gentle Laxatives, Produce Natural Action.
sdf
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in .and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, a-nd wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is fid post free.
Art op Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is fid.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is fid posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is fid posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest sonirs.
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court op London Series, 2s ea; posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is fid posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is fid posted.
NOTE. — SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR? 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged •
TO DEFY COMFEXITIOIXT.
WINES ne Best "g* °> SPIRITS.
M ANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
NO DECEPTION.
Professor: “Now, ladies and gentlemen, I will show
you a simple and easy trick about which there is
no deception, and one that all may learn with great
advantage to themselves. In one hand you take a
glass of water, and in the other a few BEECHAM’S
PILLS; you place the pills upon your t mgue and
take a sip of water. The pills will do the rest.”
gp-SHf
Tl#©&T lASI
wmm pißfUMi
SraHStesfe,
“ aWGCOHA\ISS
LONDON.
mmiIABLE TO
k SINGEBS X SPEAKERS
m
fCT
TN€R€ IS ONLY ON€!
Mignon Piano.
Nanon Piano.
FLoniscli Piano.
THERE IS ONLY ONE
THERE IS ONLY ONE
THERE IS ONLY ONE
Beclistein Piano
We are the Sole Agents!
. v- :
asr”
pT“
Payments to Suit Everybody.
Liberal Discount for Cash.
NICHOLSON & CO.,
SYDNEY. BRISBANE. PERTH.
REMEMBER
THE WONDERFUL
CURATIVE PROPERTIES
*
BONNINGTON’S
MOSS
IFOR
Coughs and all Lung Complaints.
Mr. J. G. BEATTIE, Hillgrove, writes: “Dear Sirs.—l experienced immediate relief
when suffering from a severe cold in the head and throat upon taking a few doses of your
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.”
Bonnington’s Pills.
and all Liver Disorders!


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber,
Washers,
Valves,
Rubber Rings,
Rollers,
Buffers,
Gas Tubing, &c.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office :
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building;, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
G-eorge and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
BY ROYAL WARRANT OF APPOINTMENT TO
THE QUEEN.
Ask for
Wbisky aod
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
Ask for
BraQdy at)d
‘Scbv/cppc
SODAWATER, &c-
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
PlJofn sqi u|
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and in
Australia, Africa, South America, India,
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength,
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working.
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM 33 Albert St.
NE WCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
sd
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
“60 PATENT BEETS
can be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed.
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents : wmi—Hfc
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO. LTD.
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • • •
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only |d. per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your Orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use bad butter is dear
at any price. The famous “ Berry ” brand Pasteurised butter
can be obtained only from this Company.
H. FATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & GENERAL MACHINERY. ENGINES & BOILERS.
Ropp Straight Line Furnace
Huntington Quartz Mills
Frue Concentrators
Challenge Ore Feeders
Dodge Rockhreakers
Gates Rockhreakers
Roger Rolls
Sample Grinders
Ingersoil Compressors
Ingersoll Rock Drills
fsd
Knowles Steam Pumps
Bullock Diamond Drills
Columbia Boilers
Buffalo Blowers
Huyett & Smith’s Fans
Nagle Engines
Bartlett Concentrators
Pu Isometers
Wood-Working Machinery
Laundry Machinery, etc.
fs
BARNES’
Foot and Steam Power
Machine Tools
of Every Description.
Drilling Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
*■
ENGINEERS’
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
J BROTHERS,
preseatativea for
Worthington Pumping
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Engine Co.
WOKiiHi M SaTO M.
TRADE MARK.
BOILER
FEED
PUMP.
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AS® WITH
Gnn-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . .
