

m
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S R-
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best
n
“The Standard
of i
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. G. WA.TKIIVS CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
. —FOR—.
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Prize
Medals.
22,
Steam
Engines
Sold.
mn
SEND FOR PRICES AND PARTICULARS
m
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WfMi’oL E’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite S
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Latest -Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Hoarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
«
I
. •■,■;.■ ,;■ ;..■> ■ •- ■■; >
’’Bs Pitt Street,
SOLE AGENTS FOR
_ . ■■■
ston, Proc
HATE IN STOCK and TO ARRIVE —PORTABLE,
TRACTION, VERTICAL, FIXED and SEMI-FIXED
AND BOILERS and PUMPS.
MACHIKTES, SAW BEKTCUES, &c
THORNE’S
Established 1831.
That’s All!
A 1 WHISKY.
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
n
RACKAROCK
&CL
AR^
Cfj.
HOBART.
Hadley s Orient Hotel.
D.S .MAI R
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Gleaned, 2/6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
T3EST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
co
w
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine I
Posted (undercover)
toanypartof Austra-.
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. 6d.
&
“I’ll Try It.“ Sole Agents : The Result.
Craig & Ait ken, 680-682 George- st., Sydney
fm
PEiPETEH NTEI.
ALL your letters, bills and papers should
be DATED ! This Dater adjusts to ANY
desired date INSTANTLY, and will save you
time, money and trouble. It is Rapid,
Legible, and costs practically nothing.
Dates from 1900 to 1905 ; also prints re-
ceived, answered, paid, etc. Price with
Self-Inking Pad, Two Shilling's (post free).
DATING STAMP CO., Box 1402 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Iffe PIONEER
t* i
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Beit of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S. W. Government.
Prices and Samples Eree to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWICT& SON, LTD.,
IX7 York Street,
SYDNEY. ' ■ ■ „•
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, \V. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of tlie System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
R
1
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
.201 BOUEKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
m
HIGHLAND
CREAM
WH
m
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
TIEUE GBEAT . . -
CASCADE ALE
IS HZEIRIE TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE LATEST TRIUMPH.
HONOR FOR AN AUSTRALIAN PRODUCT.
Joshua’s BOOMERANG BRANDY
THe Allowing Cable appeared in the local papers of July 16:
July 14.—Messrs. Joshua Bros., of Melbourne, have been appointed
by Royal Warrant to supply their Boomerang Brandy to the households of the
Queen, the Prince of Wales, and the Duke of York.”
ot a Guessing
A RECORD. We
sold 5000 of our
Celebrated WATCHES
and CHAINS at 6/6 in
13 months, and now, to
universally advertise
our famous 4/6 Para-
guayan 14ct. GOLD
CHAINS to every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent.’s or Lady’s) we
will present, on pay-
ment of 6/- extra, the
RAILWAY WATCH,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
\
a JEWELLED, PULL-DA Y, PERFECT LEVER MOVE-
MENT, SHORT-WIND WATCH, wound and hands set
from stem, strong and reliable, same as used on the rail-
ways of Great Britain. They give entire satisfaction.
That is why we send them out on appro., and if returned
within 14 days money is refunded. We make this extra-
ordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE LIST and to
make ourselves talked about. The Watch and Chain is
sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of 10/6 and 6d.
for postage.
H. POTIER & CO.,
53 ROYAL ARCADE,
X^SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
rom Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
-'hie,; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH or FRENCH BOOKS,
R> (SENNCRT,
890 Faubourg, St. Martin, Paris, France
The Bulletin
Vol 21.—N0. 1067.
[Saturday, July 28, 1900.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


* Plethora of the skin. He means there’s more blood
in it, so that it grows hair better—from a richer soil, as it
were. .
t Arch at the junction of the temple-bone and cheek-
bone.
BOOKS BY POST.
STIRRING WAR STORIES.
UHTOHETT’S “ Deeds That Won the Empire,” 9d. ;
Baden Powell’s “Matabele Campaign,” 9d. ; Griffith’s
“ Boer or Briton,” 9d.
STEPHEN CRANE’S BOOKS.
“ Open Boat,” “Third Violet,” “ Pictures of War,” &c., 3s.
ALL POST FREE. Stamps or Postal Notes.
n
mn
The Bulletin publications.
A Golden Shanty :
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers. Paper
covers, Is. 3d. 5 ©loth boards,! 2s, 4d. post
free.
Tales of the Convict System :
By “Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. ; 6d., post free.
The Last of Six:
Tales of the Austral Tropics.. By
Ernest Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d.
post free.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Third Edition. Silk
cloth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp., 4s. 6d. f
post 'free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Hidden Tide:
A Selection of Verses by Roderio Quinn.
■ No. I. of The Bulletin Booklets. Pam-
phlet Bvo., Is. 9d., post free. Out of Print.
Two large-paper copies remain, 11s., post
free.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Biiady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Hits, Skits, and Jingles:
By W. T. Goodge. Paper, 2s. 10d., post
free. *** First-class for. recitation.
Maorilandi and Other Verses;
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *»* The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
, On Cur Selection:
By A. H. ©avis (“ Steele Rudd”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambar,t, Vineent, Leist, Fisher and
Fullwood. *** “The jolliest book yet
printed-in Australia.”
direct from The Bulletin Offioe by
return mail' in exchange for stamps (of £tny
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amounts stated.
j Sole Wholesaler Agents:
Edwards, Dumdof & Go., Limited', 6vdsbt amd- Bbisbare
Hudson’s menthol Jujubes
For
)UGHS, GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
JtV
£ :
IN TINS, 18. 6d
Tbe Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for,the Cure of
INFLUENZA Mad
Prevention-of
CONSUMPTION.
Invakurtflo for Stogere
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OE POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
An Australian in China .
THE tragedy of Peking seems to have been
one of those heroic events which set the
w'orld aflame, and when pictured by
the genius of bard or orator become indel-
ible in history. The human power of exaltation
in the face of death must have been seen at
its highest on that day at the end of June
■when the breach was made in the Legation
walls, and the little remnant of Europeans,
knowing the worst had come, slew wife and
child after one last heartbreaking embrace, then
turned their faces to the grim fanatic foe, and
died fighting. It is a hard tiling to say that those
Europeans reaped what Europe has sowed ; but it
is true. Ever since we have known her,
China has asked only one thing—to be
let alone. As Justin McCarthy phrased it,
her prayer to Europe has been the prayer
of Diogenes to Alexander, “Get out of
my sunshine ! ” It would seem as if all through
the centuries the Chinese had been given some
vague instinct, some inconscient animal pre-
monition, of the trouble which the foreigners are
bringing to their country. But Europe would
never let. China alone. At first the religious
greed of proselytes, then greed of trade, now
greed of territory, have striven to pass, and to
elude, and to batter down the closed gate of
China.
The Chinese are the most inoffensive of races.
Their moral character is high. Through their
land, where they have not been spoiled by Euro-
peans, the stranger walks in peace and safety.
Left to themselves, they would never, as a nation,
commit one act of aggression against the Occiden-
tal nations. If there is any force in the belief that
a man and a nation are entitled to possess their
own land, enjoy their own liberty, as long as they
do not interfere with the possessions and liberties
of others, then the Chinese have fully earned the
quiet they desire. Subjected to continual annoy-
ance and attack in their homes and in their cities,
is it any wonder that the worm should turn in
savage and pitiful reprisal ?
■ China mixes myriads of men of various races
afid religions, in a vast territory where exist
all conditions of soil and climate. It is no
wonder that the Government should often
be unable to control the mass of its sub-
jects. But the Chinese have learnt how to
control themselves. Their civilisation is no
fieSs stable than ancient. Confucius inculcated
the best principles of Jesus half-a-thousand years
before Jesus was born. Commerce, banking,
literature, art, the sciences of engineering and
architecture—these were taught and practised in
China when the Briton was a painted barbarian.
The Chinese communities have for ages been hard-
labouring, intelligent and happy. The Chinese
character is the admiration of every un-
biassed traveller. In China learning is
reverenced, integrity is honoured, family life
is, for the most part, a pattern of piety
and love. Is it any wonder that the Chinese,
considering the Europeans who come among them,
knowing that contact with Europe has brought
them little but social degradation and civil tur-
moil, should resent even well-meant endeavours to
revolutionise their religion, tlieir character, their
mode of life ?
These are views which might have' been ex-
pressed, and in part have been expressed, by
George Morrison, the Australian who was among
those killed at Peking. It is irony which no one
would more quickly appreciate than he, that a
man so much in sympathy with the Chinese in
their resistance to Europe, should be one of the
innocent victims of the European aggression.
And though doubtless he fought with the best,
and killed as many “Boxers ” as he could, selling
bis life dearly, his was just the mind which would
rise superior to his individual environment, and in
its last moment of consciousness reflect sardonic-
ally that maybe the gods are just.
George Ernest Morrison av»s born at Geelong,
“Victoria, in 1862. His father was principal of the
Scots College at Geelong, and his good Scots
name gave promise of his grit and manhood. He
was a fine fellow. Not a writer ; he only wrote
incidentally, though his writing is g-ood reading.
Morrison was an adventurer, an explorer, an ad-
ministrator and a man of action. When he had
done with boyhood they tried to make a doctor of
him at Melb. University, and at first failed badly.
He bothered little with book-learning. According
to his own story, in the examination . for the
Second-Year medicine, hoping the more to im-
press the Professors, he entered his name for
honours—and they rejected him in the preliminary
pass.
It seems that in the examination in Materia Medica I
had, among other trifling lapses, prescribed a dose of
Oleum Grotonis of “ one-half to two drachms carefully in-
creased.” I confess that I had never heard of the
wretched stuff ; the question was taken from far on in
the text-hook, and, unfortunately, my reading had not
extended quite so far. When a deputation from my
family waited upon the examiner to ascertain the cause
of my misadventure, the only satisfaction we got was the.
obliging assurance “ that you might as well let a mad dog
loose in Oollias-street ” as allow me to become a doctor
And then the examiner produced my prescription. But 1
thought I saw a faint chance of escape. I pointed a ner-
vous finger to the two words “ carefully increased,” and
pleaded that that indication of caution ought to save me.
“Save you it might,” -he shouted, with unnecessary
vehemence ; “ but, God bless my soul, man ! it would not
save your patient. ” The examiner Wfs a man intemperate
of speech ;so 1 left the University. It was a severe blow
to the University, but the University survived it.
And Morrison followed his beat. He undertook
a canoe voyage from Albury to the mouth of the
Murray. He tramped round the coast from Mel-
bourne to Adelaide. He tramped across Australia
from Carpentaria Gulf to Melbourne—which was
something of a. feat in 1882. Then be went
wandering among the islands off N.E. Australia.
In New Guinea in 1883 lie was crippled by a native
apear ; and'he walked ill till the spearhead was
but out by an E&inburgh surgeon nine months
later. In ’B7 he took bis degree of M.D. Re-
turning to the East, he saw Japan, and per-
formed the , journey which made him famoiis—
sailing and riding and walking from Shanghai,
3000 miles across Southern and Western China, to
Burma. This is the journey recorded -m “An
In China. ’ * In Calcutta he yearly died
of'fever. His: pluck and constitution and his
name of Morrison pulled him through, mid he was
aoon bank in China, travelling' in Siam and
and l&t©r aor® , iS iVlancnuna. Jxon-
don Times stationed him as i*s correspondent at
Beking with a Prime Minister S salary, lie did
splendid work, often securing better and earlier
news than the British Embassy. Only the other
day he was back visiting his people m Australia,
jte returned to Peking to the death which
Bowlby his predecessor as Times correspondent m
China, suffered at the hands of the Chi nose.
“An Australian in China” is George Mor-
rison’s single book ; for the letters ®to Melbourne
papers recording his earlier journeys have not
been reprinted, and his special correspondence
remains in the Times files. His friends should
make a posthumous volume or two from these
sources.
Morrison reached China with all an Australian’s
prepossession against the Chinese as industrial
competitors who in Australia and America reduce
white men’s wages. He found the Chinese in
their own land a friendly and civilised .race.
(Those who come to Australia are, as a rule, of an
inferior class —some of them the scourings of the
treaty ports.)
I went to China possessed with the strong racial anti-
pathy to the Chinese common to my countrymen, but
that feeling has long since given way to one of lively sym-
pathy and gratitude, and I shall always look back with
pleasure to this journey, during which I experienced,
while traversing provinces as wide as European • king-
doms, uniform kindness and hospitality, and the most
charming courtesy. In my case, at least, the Chinese did
not forget their precept, “ Deal gently with strangers
from afar.”
Yet Morrison remained firmly convinced of the
necessity of excluding the Chinese from Australia.
“ It is this class of Chinese,” he says, referring to
the Cantonese of the S.E. provinces,
who have already driven us out of the Northern Terri-
tory of Australia, and whose unrestricted entry into the
other colonies we must prevent at all hazards. We can-
not compete with Chinese ; we cannot intermix orliiarry
with them; they are aliens in language, thought,
and customs; they are working Z animals of low
grade but great vitality. The Chinese is temperate,
frugal, hard-working, and law-evading, if not law-abiding
—we all acknowledge that. He can outwork an English-
man, and starve him out of the country- no one can deny
that. To compete successfully with a Chinaman, the
artisan or labourer of our own flesh and blood would
require to be degraded into a mere mechanical beast of
labour, unable to support wife or family, toiling seven
days in the week, with no amusements, enjoyments, or
comforts of any kind, no interest in the country, contri-
buting no share towards the expense of government,
living on food that he would now reject with loathing,
crowded with his fellows ten or fifteen in a
room that he would not now live in alone, ex-
cept with repugnance. Admitted freely into Australia,
the Chinese would starve out the Englishman, in accord-
ance with the law of currency—that of two currencies in
a country the baser will always supplant the better.
“In Victoria,” says Professor Pearson, “ a single trade —
that of furniture-making—was taken possession of and
ruined for white men within the Space of something like
five years.” In the small colon}' of Victoria there are
9377 Chinese in a population' of 1,150,000; in all China,
with its population of 350,000,000, there are only 8081
foreigners (Dyer Ball), a la%e proportion of whom are
working for China’s salvation.
There is not room for both in Australia. Which is to
be our colonist, the Asiatic or the Englishman ?
» » * *
This was written in 1895. Since then the immi-
gration of Chinese into Australia has been to some
extent checked ; but, into Queensland particu-
larly, the immigration of races inferior to Chinese
continues. And in Queensland last month, the
Queensland Government, which squanders hundreds
of thousands of pounds in propping up the pri-
vately-owned Q.N. Bank, was discovered saving
shillings by letting a contract for the erection of
telegraph-poles to Chinese, at a trifle less than the
amount previously paid to white men !
Apart from its record of scenes and incidents
(the whole journey from Shanghai in China
to Bhamo in Burma cost less than £2O) Morri-
son’s book is interesting on two main topics—
missions and the opium traffic. He points out
the ludicrous futility of the missionaries’ work.
Many of the missionaries live in luxury; but the
1511 Protestant missionaries labouring in China
could convert in 1893 only 3127 Chinese, at a cost
of £350,000 —which is at the rate of a fraction
more than two converts per missionary per
annum, at a cost of £lll per convert. The figure
is high ; particularly as many of the converts are
“ rice Christians,” whose religion is trustworthy
only as long as they get daily rations from the
mission—-and the last moral state of the renegade
from Confucius is frequently worse than the nSt.
In the matter of the opium traffic Morris ex-
poses the folly of believing that the moderate use
of opium is injurious t» health, or that the
Chinese will ever stop using it. Tlieir home-
grown opium far exceeds in quantity that im-
ported from India. But the officials certainly
wish to stop the importation from India for reasons
of Protection, because it interferes with the local
monopoly. #
* * « *
Morrison is not a writer born ; but he lias the
open mind, the humourous eye, and his writing is
good reading. And it is hard to die at 38 when a
man is so well able to enjoy life, and feels within
him so much power of doing and achieving. Death
gave Morrison many chances, and at the last took
him suddenly where no peril to life was looked-
for. It doesn’t seem playing fair. But
The Ball no question makes of Ayes and Noes,
But Here or There strikes as the Player goes;
And He that toss’d you down into the Field,
He knows about it all—He knows—HE knows !
The Coming Australian.
[Many Australian medical practitioners possess valuable
data for generalising abou-t the Australian race—the way
in which native-born whites of European descent are
affected by climate, by occupation, by social conditions, by
that environment which includes all these factors and others
too intangible to he defined, yet all-important in fixing
the character and destiny of the race. If leading generali-
sations could be established, even as theories, the deduc-
tions would be of the utmost service to physicians, legis-
lators, sociologists and ethnologists. But it is very rare
to find a medical petitioner who will take the pains to
survey his experience, tabulate his knowledge, and pub.
lieh the results. Dr. R. Humphry Marten is therefore to
be thanked and. commended for the excellent presidential
address on “ The Effects of Migration from the Northern
to the Southern Hemisphere which he delivered- before
the S.A. branch of the Bri Sish Medical Association on 28th
June. By the courtesy of Hr. S. T. Knaggs, editor of The
Australasian Mediectl Gazette, an abridged portion of this
address is reprinted below. Some medical terms have
been translated Into common speech.]
I HAVE practised our.profession in Australia
for the hat twelve years (said Dr. Marten)
but have been intimately associated
with Australians for sixteen years before
coming here myself. Everyone will admit
that the climate of Australia is absolutely differ-
ent from that of northern Europe, whence most
of the people of this continent have been derived ;
and it has been laid down as an axiom, “ That the
physiological functions of most persons,, wlio quit
their native land and settle in a wholly different
region, must undergo a considerable change if
new conditions are not to have injurious
effects upon them.” And although our northern
ancestors and their descendants, who are
in the northern hemisphere, living under
conditions common to all, may undergo evolution,
it would be in a direction common to the whole
species ; but those who migrate to the southern
hemisphere, and especially if there be little inter-
breeding between the two races, and with the
different environments, would be expected to de-
velop on divergent lines of evolution.
My first experience of Australians commences
with boys whom I met at a boarding-school near
London, and what struck me most was the bronzed
skin and athletic forms of the southerners, who
were fairly hard-working, but who had no great
mental powers beyond the English boys of their
own age.
The next Australians were those whom I came
in contact with when studying medicine in Lon-
don ; it was then very noticeable that, although
of the average age of the students, the
Australians looked much older for their years
than we did; their hirsute appendages were much
greater ; their development, especially of their
bodies and limbs, was complete; in fact, they
seemed, both in personal appearance and general
knowledge of the world, to be from three to five
years in advance of the English undergraduates.
And their mental condition was more stable, they
were able to grasp and assimilate facts much more
readily, and for the first few years of the course
were able to take the lead ; but in the last year or
two it was noticeable that persons from the cooler
climates gradually caught up to and finally passed
their southern contemporaries, and the men who
had gained the gold medals in the first few years
were generally left behind in the final struggles.
The reason for this being that the Australians,
coming from a warm climate, had come to
maturity more quickly than those who bad de-
veloped more slowly, but perhaps, I may be
excused for saying, more surely than the
southerners.
I have always likened in my own mind the
development of the two peoples to the growth of
the oak-trees in. the two hemispheres. It is an
established fact, that in the cold climate the -
oaks grow more slowly, but in the end produce
much more durable timber than their quickly-
growing desendants in this climate. Here the
oaks grow up with great rapidity, but I very
much doubt if they will, in the end, live to the
great age of the northern oaks; and there is
very little doubt that their timber is not so
strong or lasting. And I believe it is the same
with the Australian-born descendants of the early
colonists, and unless they occasionally cross with
the northern races they will tend to become a tall,
thin race, the climate apparently being unsuitable,
withoutfrequent interbreeding, to the development
of a sturdy, thick-set, durable people. The
southerners were like my schoolfellows, grand
athletes, as well as good workers. One man I re-
member in particular, who played cricket for an
Australian Eleven at that time visiting England,
was so engrossed in his work that it is said of him
that he actually read his Ellis’ Anatomy whilst
waiting for his innings at Lords’ cricket ground,
and I think there is no doubt that is true.
There was nothing striking in their language, it
appeared to be exactly like our own ; but they
were always pining for the sun, and detested the
cold and damp, sunless north. ■■
The next Australians I came in contact with
were at Cambridge. They had the same advanced
style about them, but it was not so noticeable to
me, as I was their senior. Whatever they under-
took they did well—if they worked they read well,
if they took to any particular branch of sport they
as often as not came out on the top, and if they
were lazy and went to the bad, they did it
extremely well, far out-running their northern
confreres even in this line ; but they had a
redeeming point here, which, as a rule, was not so
apparent among the English-—namely, after having
idled away their time for a number of months, or
years, they had the power of suddenly turning •
over a new leaf, and taking an extremely good
position in later life. I noticed this in several
instances, and when they had once turned they
stuck to their work with a great pertinacity.
So much for the Australians I met with in the
colder climates, who were, as a rule, of the thin,
muscular, wiry type, generally showing the effects
of the sun on their complexions, some being fair,
and others, perhaps the majority, had dark hair
with dark eyes.
* * * *
I have now spent twelve years in South Aus-
tralia, and no one will deny that the inhabitants
are the most hospitable of people. They will
make an extremely fine race of people in the
future, and in time to come will have to be
reckoned with as one of the great nations. The
general commendations they have received and
the responsible positions which have been allotted
to them during the Transvaal campaign, all point
to their development into some of the finest
soldiers in the world —they have any amount
of self - confidence, and a way peculiar to
themselves of getting out <of tight corners.
From observations I have noted since re-
siding in Australia, I would say they are an
energetic race, probably more so than their
northern ancestors, with good mental capacity,
easily taking in knowledge and retaining it, and
viewing all the wonders of the world im a very
matter-of-fact sort of way.
Taking them as a whole, there are more of the
dark-complexioned and dark-haired people than
the light-haired and blue-eyed Saxons. Whether
this is in any way due to the increased exposure
to the sun, and whether they will eventually be-
come a dark-skinned race, remains to be proved.
Their hair is generally straight, but tends to
coarseness, and is prone to leaye a tonsure -pretty
early in life; this may be due in part to the neces-
sity there is for keeping the head ao.oonstantly
covered from thb sun. Their bodies and their
faces are more prone to a luxurious hirsute growth
than the northerners, due- to «he greater hyper-
semia* of the skin from the increased exposure to
the solar rays. They are also more inclined to go
grey earlier than their ancestors.
The eyes as a rule tend to grey and dark brown.
The blue, so common among the Anglo-Saxons at
home, is rather the exception.
The eyebrows and eyelashes are often exces-
sively developed, especially amongst the true bush-
men ; and I think this is probably a provision of
nature to protect these sensitive organs, not only
from the excessive glare of the sun but also from
the dust. You often see at the outer angles of the
orbits, where the constantly contracting orbicu-
laris muscle [circular muscle of the eye] has
developed wrinkles, that there are white and red
lines interspersed, this being due to the sun burn-
ing the tops of the wrinkles and leaving the
creases white. It often produces a peculiar ap-
pearance on a cloudy day when the eye is opened
to its full.
* « * *
The nose, so far, has no characteristic shape
such as a Roman or a Grecian, and fortunately it
shows no tendency, and probably never will do, to
the Platyrrhinic [broad, flat-nosed] type so marked
in the early inhabitants of this vast land. It is
thin, comes to a fairly sharp angle at the bridge,
with skin stretched tightly across it; the nostrils
are not large, but the groove round the outer side
of the ala nasi [fleshy wing of the nose] is well
marked, and here there is often a goodly growth
of hair. The nostrils, especially of the true bush-
man, often have a great capillary growth, another
provision of nature against dust.
The lips are finely cut, and occasionally dry and
sunburnt, and I never remember seeing the
mucous membrane of the lips freckled except in
this country.
The cheeks of bearded men show a profusion of
thick hair, often growing high up on the malar
[cheek] bones.
The foreheads are generally broad and high and
fairly straight. They show no great development
of the superciliary ridges [over the eyebrows],
which are so characteristic of the Australian
aboriginals.
The malar bones are well developed, and the
zygomatic archest prominent, more so than in
Europe, this being due, it is said, to the greater
work the masticatory muscles have to do in biting
the food, especially meat; the chins are rather
pointed, tending to give the face an ovoid [egg-
shaped] foikn. The orbital angles are the same as
in Europe.


w.
uNTt
Registered.
IF YOU WANT . . .
GOOD STEEL CGtfery
Sbnd Post Card with
tour Address to . . .
W, JNO. BAKER, P»™»
S Hunter Street, Sydney,
For his Illustrated Catalogue.
fISTORAL r INANCE II SSOC’N ■■TD
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS
—(SELLING ONLY)—
LOWEST CHARGES. HIGHEST RETURNS.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDKTBY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE~TO WOOLGROWERS
IN New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges tp the Grower :
COMMISSION ... | per Cent.
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charge will be ... ... ... ... ... 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South. Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of Marsupial Skins held Weekly.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED,
Offices : 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
STORES : CENTRAL WHARF.
SOLE CHARGE—3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
m
Combines Perfection of
Quality with Absolute
Purity.
IN
BLACK BOTTLE
AND
BULK
EVERYWHERE.
J|Bk for DIE.
n
mn
'±ae Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomacn,
headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DIHNEFORDSI
MACNESIAj
m
Sold Throughout the World.
fi.B. ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBfc, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
S Y D W E! Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Mort*Go.
. LIMITED .
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming Wool Season
21
o
o
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
n
PLAIN HOty€ TALK
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting: their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is 6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. 4s 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderfol Budget Song Book, over 300 latest son£l9
Is 3d post free. ’
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s e* costed.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, is 0d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY
ELECTRICITY.
vVhen
writing
please
mention
Thb
BullktiX.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
- ELECTRICAL) APPLIANCES, invented by
: Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
| strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-1
J CIAN, therr fore wholly an Australian invention.
I THEY ftiAKE PERFECT MEN.'
*DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER 1
- LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can j
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-'
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia, i
• Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General'
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc. i
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,"
■ brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and A
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted "
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and 4
may be worn without the slightest possibility of”
detection. Thev have cured thnnfln.nde. /.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ b. a.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 1 0 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attaahments 8 8 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee an '
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
A Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers. Paper
covers, Is. ; Cloth boards, 2s.
mn
k
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISEANE
HIGH-GRADE FARM IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINERY.
K€MPS Patent S!)€€p-Brai)dii)g LiqOid
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting - Brand; withstand all Rain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out-
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins. ’
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grimwade & Co,
MELBOURNE.
Agents— RlCH & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Black, fled, and Blue. 3s 6dL per gall. Iml Melb. and. Sydney; 3s 9d
per gall, in Brisbane.


TATTERSALL’S
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Adelaide G.N.H. August 11.
25,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
• ■ i
Name
Address ■ I
£, * *
Spring’ H. August 11.
50,000 Sulbaorilbers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me : _shares in above.
Name „ ■
Address, ,
t
Sept. 11
Metropolitan S.
50,000 Subscribers at 0.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me . v shares in the above.
TJamfl _ . -u,,u. i u -
Address, ...,. »■".'.u.jiu—
metropolitan S. (special).
DRAWN MORNING OF THE RACE.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot ma . sha/raa in the above.
Name ,
J 5
«
s
Address
Demonstration H. oct L
$O,OOO Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Plpn.gf.- n.llnt. nnft shares in above.
N ame
Address, .... —•
Caulfield C. October 20.
100,000 Subscribers at B.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo ... shares in the above.
Name T
Address _
Melbourne C. November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
{t; ; C .
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name.
Address
Melbourne G.
November 6
Please allot me_ shares in the above.
Name
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tattersall,” care Oeo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
BgSt Prices.
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
\
BAND SAW MULLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING.
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
„ ev cV ' sts
i’S
ss
»v #
«•»£; ** 4
coUg itjtioss-
id
m
n
SNEEZE
And sneeze again. Then
keep on sneezing. Per-,
haps you think you car*
sneeze La Grippe out of
you in this way! But
the trouble is La Grippe
isn’t in your head alone.
It’s in your back, your
blood, your nerves, your
muscles ; all through the
body, everywhere.
| It don’t take a doctor
to let you know you have it.
And it don’t take a doctor to
cure you, either.
payers
€hcm
Pectoral
is the cure. It’s a sure cure and a quick
cure. It quiets your restlessness, con-
trols your fever, stops your coughing,
and drives La Grippe right out of the
system. One dose relieves; a few
doses cure.
In Large and Small Bottles.
A cure is hastened by placing over the chestono
of Dr. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plasters Prepared
by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Alass., U. S. A.
LADIES !
"""■ r Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the ltoyal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales . . ,
Barbers* Supply House
680-2 (3-eorge-st.,
SYDNEY.
AQStraliaQ tyOtOal ProVidcpt Society.
MONEY TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any line.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
mn
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
SSIT Send for Price List. *s3l
H. HILIiIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
m
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Snssex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages,'Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
FAG-SIMILE OF
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL
FOR THE
ftO
TRADE MARK
BEGISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL !
Gju q*aJ> q
2 S'* 1
( Ottoi to
{[fadl 'QjlrxJc Ois\JLAA*<-svx /
hujjfs o ukx
f k?
'V'^v
KOKO
Cyrvs i
HAIR
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents Hair Failing, Promotes Growth, and its
unique Testimonials prove It to be undoubtedly the Best Preoaration for the Hair.
“ "lean, Cool, * Invigorating. a'6&_4/6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Perfectly Harmless, Cleat , _ _
Stores Ac. THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO., LTD.
16, Bevis Marks, LONDON, ENG.
EDWARDS
nm
n
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER & RESTORER
The Very Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed .
A LUXURY AND A NECESSITY TO EYERY MODERN TOILET.
•7i
Restores the Hair
Promotes the Growth
Arrests the Fall
Strengthens the Roots
Preserves the Hair
Removes Dandruff
Allays all Irritation
6 HARLENE*
Preserves,
Strengthens and
Invigorates
Children's Hair.
m
Full description and directions for use in 20 languages supplied with every bottle*
1/-, 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per Bottle of Druggists &c., all over the World.
EDWARDS’ “HARLENE” Co., 95 & 96, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
3Xr.S-'W. Carriage «Sz SacldLlery Mlanf’
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
Company,
SYDNEY
When in town, pay U 8 a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Prioe List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying: from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any tirms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do'so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUK SPECIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
i
Delirered at any Wharf or
Jf.S.YV. llailtrays, Station
£lO 10 /-
;.v
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Grief.
The stars are nodding across the river
That marks my Night from the Day that’s gone.
The night wind croons with a little shiver
A dead love’s song as it wanders on.
The stars’ warm tears on the grass are clinging—
The grass that kissed at her passing feet.
The river mourns, as it sweeps a-singing,
For someone’s voice that was rich and sweet.
[ The stars hung lower to hear her laughter;
The river flashed her a loving gleam;
Her lips were sweet, but this dull, grey after
Is bitterer far than the bitterest dream.
The stars shine clear, but her eyes flashed clearer
With love that once in their lives men see,
And I hold one thought of her whispers dearer
Than any song of the stream can be.
O stars that float in the deep, dark river !
O stream that winds with her lissome grace !
Help me to pray to the Great Love-Giver
That I may dream of a dead girl’s face.
M.L.
QUILP N.
The Last Toast.
They were our little playmates
In the far-away cradle days,
With their toddling gait and their lisping speech
And their wonderful baby w«ys ;
And the daisies grew for their dimpled hands,
And the sunbeams shone for their curls—
And they were our little playmates,
Let us drink to them now—“ The Girls! ”
And the days went by and we found them fair,
And we found them, oh ! so sweet!
And we fell in love with their rippling hair
And the trip of their dainty feet ;
And the beauty the good gods gave them
They doubled with silk and pearls—
And the days went by and we found them fair—
Let us pledge them to-night —“ The Girls 1 ”
And some of those wayward misses
Have grown to be widow and wife ;
Some are only a dream of kisses
To mock at a lone man’s life.
But whether they played for pastime,
Or whether they fought us fair,
Let us pledge them once in the ruby wine,
For the sake of the days that were !
. . •
Now fill to the brim with hemlock !
And lips that are tired of wine
Shall drink to the hearts that were broken
In days of the dear lang syne—
Shall drink to the buried laughter,
Shall drink to the old loves dead ;
For the world has stolen our playmates,
And the girl of our heart is wed !
N.S.W.
WILL OGILVIE.
Fate.
At bed and board I meet his face,
He stands wherever I may be ;
My secret thoughts are his to read,
He constantly companions me.
Though I should glove my hand, he puts
Within my grasp an edged sword ;
I fill my mouth with honey-speech, *
And lo ! he sends the acid word.
I had a whole heart once, could love,
Have faith in men, God’s works adore ;
He came to concentrate my gaze
Upon the canker at the core.
I cannot run, he trips me up ;
Nor climb—he forthwith drags me down ;
And yet, and yet, less worth than mine
Oft sought the laurel or the crown.
There was a dear fight I had fought,
I might have won—gave blow for blow ;
He stole behind and pinned my arms,
And left me open to my foe.
The woman who was born for me
(Warm nourishment of soul and heart),
He brought me face to face with her,
But kept us all the world apart.
I tried to kill him many times,
Wheeled suddenly with dagger-thrust;
He brushed my rebel-stroke aside,
And rolled my valour in the dust.
I must be brave before my friends,
Praise him indeed for what he’s not;
Or they, linked arm-in-arm, may say—
“ The fellow quarrels with the lot.”
’Tis said that Patience brings amends,
Makes all things right—to love turns hate ;
But though my fiend turn friend—what then ?
What can he give to compensate ?
The love I lost must live in man,
The dearest deeds remain undone,
The laurel-wreath I win be less
Than that I might of old have won.
The noon’s the time to seek the sun ;
An hour or two, and sunken-eyed
He loses charm ; and so in youth
Youth’s pleasures must be satisfied.
Else who can say that he has lived,
And bless the world with yielded breath . . .
Wherefore my foe, my foe may be,
Till comes that mightiest foeman—Death.
N.S.W.
RODERIO QUINN.


THE
PLUM
m
RAZOR, 10s. 6d.; or with Ivory
Handle, 16b. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
‘"ln jj nd never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
JfcdEJKT, 680 GEORGE ST., avmvr'Pi'v
The Australian Ujidouss’ F»nd [ife Assurance Society [td.
rniTTc onniF'Pv • jj... , Established 1871*
the usual formBof Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
IL *a ' K-fi rt°i?.i°Pn n ™ Ik" ° f prel f ium in the e . vent of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood,
u- A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWIOK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.OL
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,380,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE
Write for Special Prospectus.]
Annual Income exceeds £220,000
STREET, SYDNEY.
GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary. >
I i
. ItrH
I fr£. NlmMi
--m 0 m* -»»-»» * . ,•. n■■ n ■ 1
FEBERRC piihce HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMER, AND
CENTRE OF CITY.
Every Modern Convenience
Electric Light in Every Room
Banitary Arrangements Perfect
Home Comforts
Suites for Families.
ROOMS ALL BIZES, ALL PRICES.
For Cards of Tariff write to . .
JE£. Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
WOOLGROWERS!
The enormous amounts that we have expended
in building WAREHOUSES for the
most advantageous display of your is one of the ways in which we have studied your interests
before our own. IT IS OUR POLICY to never spare our own resources in getting every possible good result for
our supporters. v > -%
ALL THE EXPERTS and BUYERS pronounce our Warehouses:
THE BEST IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE!
GIVE US
YOUR SUPPORT
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L™
Financiers; Wool, Sides, Tallow, Skins, and General Produce
Bro Jeers.
w ~
WLm
m
flu
S
1
01
o
4y
O
<o
A-»
<o
or
>c
o
E
L
a Little Light
on the
Psß
RUBEROID ROOFING
when laid over
GALVANISED WIRE NETTING
Directions:
2 OuTsDre^dew^rom3xl bf W*i° C °f Ver * ?' Pea <*yox>x root, spaced 34 in. from centre to centre,
o mVvmrenrt in. battens to go between the rafters, midway between ridge and eaves.
3 Fix your end rafters and ridge m position, then place your second rafter without fixing
9 edge olTthe first^slfee^*^ 1 aS ' >e^ore and ’ wllen secured, insert the second sheet of Ruberoid 2 in,
7 tttrjjssrssl
“ t a° f RuberoidT fifS
8 loin.‘apart* S
£5 a O sTn W the Ch roo h f? ° f the may be laid at once ’ ** 3™
9 in the ° Pen for a day 0r fcWO before Confcacfc with “Oistnre
E. RICH * COMPANY, LIMITED. SYDNEY, BRISBANE.
Exclusive!*' Smiatfm-a’ Snnnlu MuvlKi.t.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1067.
SATURDAY. JULY 28, 1900.
Priob 6d.
iKrmkm.
The National Australian^^P a P er -
THE THREATENED DELUGE.
It will be seen by referring to above picture that, whatever happens, The Bulletin is all right.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... .„ 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maoleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—-will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Cordon and
(iotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Corhhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 8 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 llout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and dUaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage. '
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Oxping to the imposition of l jd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l£d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Ofilce, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
77ie^^'aIIeiz/n.
SATURDAY, JULY 28, 1900.
The Pro-Chow Press.
Various persons have already wasted a consider-
able amount of good ink in writing to this office to
ask if The Bulletin —in view of some recent
utterances —seriously advocates the despatch of
Australian contingents to China. This paper
doesn't advocate sending contingents to China—it
only desires to point out that other people who
ought to do so are unaccountably not doing it.
Personally it opposes the idea for exactly the
same reasons which lead it to oppose all contin-
gents : That this country shouldn’t join in wars
which it has no voice in making or unmaking ;
that it shouldn’t cultivate the spirit of armed
swagger; that it shouldn’t interfere in quarrels
which are not its quarrels ; that the collection of
teeth and ears as trophies isn’t a civilised amuse-
ment ; and that a country which fails to pay its
way in time of peace has, by its own showing, no
money to fool away on war. But unless the Jingo
party in Australia is a bombastic and weak-
kneed and altogether pitiable crowd of im-
postors it ought now’ to be up and doing ; and
the contempt which its cold, flat, and hesitating
attitude inspires is beyond words. A few months
ago it heaved the epithet (intended to be deeply
injurious) of “pro Boer” at the section of the
community which did not approve of sending
contingents to South Africa; now, by its own
logic, it has mostly turned Pro-Chow because it
warns the Australian people against contingenting
in China. To be pro-Boer was at least to be
pro a white man who treated his prisoners
kindly, and wasn’t more atrocious than the
average white combatant, and not one-tenth as
atrocious as the average cablegram. To be pro-
Chow is to be pro a yellow fiend who has already
skinned British subjects alive, burnt out their
eyes, or otherwise put them to unspeakable tor-
tures. What a pitiable falling-off it all is !
♦ • • •
Six months, or even three months ago, this
country was deafened with the cry that Australia
was now going to hump her fair share of the
White Man’s Burden; that her appear-
ance in brown clothes on the veldt
had conclusively proved to Britain that
it could always rely on Australia’s assistance
in the hour of need, and to foreign nations that
they had Australia to reckon with if they insulted
the mother-land orits flag ; and that Paul Kruger
had practically federated the British Empire. *
And now a big enemy—not a mere speck like
Paul Kruger— has not only insulted Britain and
its flag, but is alleged to have fried its ambassador
or something like that, and is butchering British
subjects promiscuously, and a scanty British force
is almost reduced to fighting for its life, while the
honor of the flag and the Mother-land has to take
care of itself for the present. And the Australian
Jingo party has dropped its share of the White
Man’s Burden almost unanimously. Its loyalty,
has been put away to keep cool, and its devotion
to the Mother-land is either dead or suspended.
When Britain had one war on hand with almost
the smallest State on earth, and had almost
as big an army in the field as the whole
population, counting men, women and children,
of its opponents’ country, the Jingo faction in
Australia rushed to its assistance (at 4s. fid. a day),
and the Australian soldiery, urged to a mental
drunk by the faction’s shrieks, lighted out en-
thusiastically for the land where there were
gold - fields and prospective land - grants. In
these days whoever disapproved of contingent-
ing was “ disloyal,” and whoever doubted
that the movement was actuated by deep,
true, enduring patriotism was a ruffian of
the deepest dye. Now Britain has two large
wars and a small one on hand. The odds are
against it. It is a case this time, not only of help-
ing the mother-land, and upholding the flag, but
of saving British subjects from an unspeakably
horrible death. It is much more a case of repelling
aggression than the Transvaal war ever was. It
is a matter, not of avenging a mere incidental
defeat like that of Majuba, but of avenging
fellow-citizens who were flayed and had their
feet sawn off and such-like horrors. It
isn’t an instance of helping Britain in a war that
she could finish with one hand whenever she chose
to put forth her strength, but of aiding her against
a foe as large as herself and her allies put together.
Barring the gold-mines and the prospective land-
grants, every reason why Australia could possibly
want to offer troops for the Transvaal is twenty
times a reason for offering troops for China. And
up to time of writing about 200 men have offered
—provided they get 7s. 6d. a day. Arid the press
that was once Jingo and is now pro-Chow almost
unanimously drops a wet blanket on the move-
ment.
* m • «
The so-oalled pro-Boer press opposed the send-
ing of contingents to the Transvaal because it
regarded the war as unjust, because it held that
Australia shouldn’t meddle in outside quarrels,
and because it knew that Great Britain was
quite able to take care of herself. The pro-
Chow press laid it down with astonishing
unanimity that it was Australia’s duty ana
privilege to interfere in the Empire’s outside
quarrels, and it doesn’t for a moment dare to
maintain that the recent doings' of the yellow
man are capable of apology or defence. The pro-
Boer press acted according to its conscience;
the pro-Chow press, by its own showing, acts
against its alleged conscience and according to
nothing visible save its cowardice or its cynical
indifference to its own alleged principles. And
the pro-Chow orators and patriots and flag-flappers
are m the same position as the pro-Chow press.
The fact that they don’t defend the cause of the
Chinamen as other papers did that of the Boers
only makes their treason and their desertion of
their principles all the worse. Ttie Bulletin op-
posed the idea of assisting Britain in what it held
to' be an unjust war; its backed-down Jingo con-
temporaries mostly oppose the idea of aiding
Britain in a war which they hold to be just—which
is all the difference between following a prin-
ciple and suffering a pitiable moral slump. And,
by their wild rage of a few months ago, and
their coldness now, they are doing their best to
put Australia in the disgraceful position of looking
like a country which promises much and does
little ; which has brief hot fits of fury and long
cold fits of indifference ; which is ready to hit a
very small enemy but dislikes to face a large one
—or else which went to war for no principle but
merely actuated by a spasmodic desire for novelty,
or went to war thinking it was a picnic, and
is shocked to find that it isn’t. It was the frenzy
of a little while back which makes the present re-
lapse into the ordinary state of comparative indif-
ference assumes this ridiculous aspect. Only a
few weeks have passed since the duty of helping
the mother country was preached so fervently,
and the falling-away is too sudden to look respect-
able. No person or country should lash itself
into a state of unspeakable curse and frenzy at a
very small antagonist if it is going to look with
blank indifference immediately after at the vastly
greater provocation given by a very big one. It
shouldn’t volunteer so enthusiastically to help
Britain when it has odds of two or three or four to
one in its favor, if it isn’t equally ready to
help when Britain and its not-too-reliable allies
have odds of probably 20 to 1 against them.
The Jingo press and politicians that were—the
pro-Chow press and politicians that are—are
bringing Australasia to this pass, and the situa-
tion is calculated to make the outside world drop
mud on our good name. Even if the very small
Chinese contingents now spoken of do materialise,
and are shipped to the land where prisoners of
war get their feet sawn off, the remarkable back-
wardness of the forward movement will still leave
Australia in a very unenviable aspect.
• * * •
So the situation may be summed up thus: If
the Jingo press and politicians and orators had
worked themselves into the same white heat of
fury about helping the mother-land when she had
a big enemy on hand as they did when she had a
very small one, they would have at least been
people who had the courage of their opinions,
whether the opinions were good or bad. Now
they are mere blatant wind-bags.
M‘Ilwraith.
So Thomas MTlwraith in his turn has met that
unpleasant fact called Death. Well, in his last
moments he had no reason to complain. He led
a good lively life, made friends, beat down baffling
foes, struggled, triumphed, failed, was finally
extinguished in dishonor. Not a great man, but a
big man, decidedly. A man of the Parkes type,
in his best days an embodiment of Force. Like
Parkes, he came of good vital stock, and the
shock of his personality bore down opposition.
little rugged, wholly masterful,
he wanted his own way always, and usually
got it. The average man, timorously expos-
tulating at directors’ meetings over which
MTlwraith presided, fell before his frown
as if struck by a club. MTlwraith, of course,
was by much Parkes’s inferior in the standard of
human values. He lacked Parkes’s emotional
yearnings, aesthetic impulses, power of imagin-
ative flight. Parkes had wings ; he walked, but
he could soar. MTlwraith was intensely prac-
tical ; he moved solidly, stolidly, along the plane
of earth. And he preferred not to bleed his
friends. The writer has heard him quote
Burns when he— MTlwraith, not the writer
—was reasonably drunk. Very likely he
quoted Burns when he was unreasonably
sober —he was Caledonian enough for that and
more. Drunk or sober, every Scotchman will
quote Burns —just because he is Scotch, and
Burns is Burns. But by Poetry, Literature, Art
generally, MTlwraith was totally unimpressed.
These were things you couldn’t add up—plainly
they had no concern with the real business of life.
Porridge makes good brawn and brain; but pota-
toes better stimulate the imagination. Potato-
yeast is a fine ferment.
* * • 9
Literature, however, has a prosy, practical side
called the Press ; and MTlwraith was thoroughly
alive to the business and political uses of the
Press. Newspaper-editors, he found, made excel-
lent tools to work his ends with. And if MTl-
wraith could not appreciate literature, he had
the Scotchman’s reverence for anything that
savours of learning. When that fevered slip of
feu ins, Francis Adams, went to Queensland,
I ‘llwraith became his host and friend; and
Adams repaid him with discriminating eulogy
and advocacy all the more valuable that it was
less discriminating. Doubtless MTlwraith was
hospitable without an eye to results; but doubt-
less he understood and valued the results.
When he invented the political expedient of
“The Australian National Party” as a move in
the game against Griffith, he would have been
quite content that his edifice should be of durable
stone. As that proved inconvenient, he was quite
content that it should be a house of cards. He
preferred to work with good men and good mea-
sures, if that were equally advantageous; but
men and measures were counters in his game.
The essential thing was that he should
win the game, with whatever counters. And he
made his mark on Queensland. His strength
did _ not lie in foresight; but often his
instinct amounted to foresight. His illogical in-
tuitions were sometimes better than logical argu-
ments. His was not an acute mind ; but the sheer
strength of it was superior to acumen. By dint
of heat, his brain shed light. He had a tight
grip on the heavy handful of things he knew,
and in the surety of his knowledge be seemed to
reach conclusions without ratiocination. When
he said, “This will do” or “This will never do,”
he could rarely say why to a colleague’s complete
satisfaction; nevertheless, he was right nine
times out of ten. His Transcontinental Railway
was a statesmanlike idea, though he would have
turned it to personal profit. His annexation of
Papua showed at once his broad sense and
the decision with which he acted on its diotates.
While timid little politicians in N.S. Wales
still cower in the shadow of that social
poison-tree, a centralised department of Public
works, MTlwraith long ago gave local govern-
ment to all Queensland by one comprehensive
measure. When a Governor fresh from a Crown
colony attempted to usurp the Executive’s prero-
gative, MTlwraith fought him and almost
literally slew him. When the Bank of England
opposed obstacles to his finance, MTlwraith
damned the Bank of England in vigorous phrase-
ology ; and, had it been a Queensland institution,
he would have damned it in fact.
• * * * *
In his prime, MTlwraith never met his politi-
cal master, though a revolt of his colleagues com-
bined with his own ill-health to end his rule in
1888. He dominated his directors, his Cabinets,
everybody. Even among his friends there
was a tacit admission that, if there came
an encounter, the friends would give way.
With him it was not Aut Ccesar aut nullus,
for MTlwraith never admitted the alternative of
nullus. He was Caesar. Cjssar out of office,
maybe; C.esar under a cloud ; but always Caisar.
A jollv, good-natured C.esar when things went
well; he had the gift of bonhomie so useful to a
Eublic man; but his square jaw could less easily
e shifted than the gates of Gaza, and his brow
was heavy with a nimbus of potential lightnings.
That is a figurative way of saying that MTlwraith
was a brutal, coarse, strong, greedy, aggressive
man, sticking to the Main Chance like a bull-
dog. The see-saw contest between Griffith
and MTlwraith was one of the most in-
teresting things in Australian political history.
Griffith was as much M‘llwraith’s superior in
intellect as he was his inferior in force of character.
MTlwraith had brains enough to see his objec-
tive and to go straight to it with a “ Faugh-a-
Ballagh ! ” Griffith had so much brains to spare
that he saw a dozen objectives, and while he was
wavering over the momentous Which? MTlwraith
was at the goal. Sometimes it was the wrong
goal; but more often it was the goal which
Griffith himself would have found—after many
days of mental tergiversation. And Griffith
had ideals to realise, scruples to satisfy ; MTl-
wraith had few scruples, no ideal but the ideal of
Success. The “coalition’’ of two such men
was one of the quaintest sacrifices to
the goddess Expediency which this genera-
tion has seen. The conflict between them
was strangely figured in a championship
contest in Sydney some time ago between two
chess players, Jacobsen and Jonas. Jacobsen, a
short, stout, large-headed, thick-necked Napoleon,
a type of impassive Power, sat back in his chair
smoking a pipe, and moved a majestic finger.
Jonas, Bright, thin and nervous, lit cigarettes and
was never still, wrinkling his face and jerking his
limbs in the anxiety of his effort. His play was
the more brilliant, and the more erratic; he
gained, he was winning, then his fire flickered,
and the solid, inscrutable Force in the. opposite
chair wore him down. So, where Griffith made
a dozen sharp thrusts in their political duel,
MTlwraith made one, which was not sharp, but
deadly.
» * • *
Yet Griffith for a time succeeded; and
partly to end his success MTlwraith deliber-
ately did his best to demoralise Queensland’s
political conscience. The man of the eighties
seemed to have lost every vestige of principle
possessed by the leader of the seventies. With
the later proceeds of the famous ten-million
loan he laid the foundation of a gigantic scheme of
bribery and corruption. The Q.N. Bank was to
rule Queensland, and MTlwraith and his asso-
ciates were to rule the Q.N. Bank. So, into that
institution which MTlwraith appeared to con-
trol absolutely, Govt, money was poured by
millions, to be lent in advances and overdrafts to
almost anybody who could wield political influ-
ence for MTlwraith. . MTlwraith himself
obtained advances of hundreds of thou-
sands for himself or his enterprises from
the money borrowed on the province’s credit.
The overdrafting Treasurer traded on the tax-
payers—or on the Bank’s depositors and share-
holders if the Bank ever settles up—just as much
as if he had opened the Treasury door, or the
Bank door, and taken the sovereigns out of
the safe. He gave insufficient securities or
none ; and his vast debts to the bank will never be
repaid. When exposure followed the crash of
1893 MTlwraith discreetly became, in the
euphemistic language of his friends, “a gentle-
man who is away,” and remained so. Broken in
health and fortune, he has spent the last seven
years in trying to rehabilitate the one. piece toge-
ther the remnants of the other. And now he is
dead.
* * • *
But MTlwraith’s deeds live after him.
His canker of rotten finance and unprincipled
legislation lias spread through the whole of the
body politic. Twenty years ago, in Queensland,
it was possible to turn elections by arguing to
truth, to honesty, to constitutional principle.
Queensland general elections nowadays are con-
trolled mainly by the self-interest of voters who have
been or may be purchased—who ask of any man
or any measure, “ What can I make out of Idm ?
What can I get out of it ? ” To this degradation
many have contributed, but MTlwhaith chiefly.
It should be written for his epitaph that, This was
the man who, with great abilities and noble
opportunities, did more than any other to corrupt
the political life of his adopted country.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Adelaide Tramway Job.
A pew years ago Kingston included State owner-
ship of the Adelaide tramways in his Ministerial
policy, and Holder, who took over the King-
stonian mantle when Sudden Solomon’s brief
candle blew out, has now a magnificent oppor-
tunity to dish the numerous schemers who are
trying to secure this fine asset. Holder pro-
mised to announce the Govt, policy as regards
this matter on July 10, but postponed the matter
to give the “ local bodies ” interested “ an oppor-
tunity of agreeing upon a scheme.” He is
still waiting for that agreement, though the subur-
ban municipalities and the Adelaide corporation
are at loggerheads and show no more signs of
agreeing with each other than the Pope does with
the boss Presbyterian. The city corporation made
a secret agreement with one Bingham, handing
over its tramway rights to a London syndicate for
40 years in return for a certain small percentage
on profits, and it declined to have anything to do
with any other scheme, being, as it says, pledged
to Bingham. It is now vaguely understood that
Bingham has fallen through, and that the Ade-
laide Corporation keeps on declining out of mere
cussedness. The suburban municipalities have
adopted what they call a Tramways Trust
scheme, and they propose that £400,000 be
borrowed with which to purchase the
existing lines, and that on completion of
such purchase the line's be leased to a company
for 40 years, said co. to provide electric traction
within two years. They suggest that that
awful corporation of sweaters, the Melbourne
Tramway Co., be invited to take over the lease
above mentioned ! They suggest this because
they are satisfied that a Municipal Trust cannot
make the lines pay, which means either that they
never heard of the experience of Glasgow and
other'places, or else they, are convinced of their
own lack of intellectual capacity. They are
understood to be against State ownership for the
same reasons; the fact that Sydney’s State-owned
and State-managed tramways pay handsomely is
evidently unknown to them. Why Holder can
hesitate for a moment to bring about State control
is a mystery. He was a member of the Kingston
Ministry which proposed it, and of Holder’s
present colleagues, Jenkins and Gordon were
colleagues with Kingston then. Moreover, Rail-
ways Commissioner Pendleton, only last month,
reported that—
The purchase of the tramways and their conversion to
an electrical system is a work which may well be under-
taken by Govt., and the result would not only be profit-
able to the State, but more satisfactory to the travelling
public than if the purchase and conversion were carried
out by individuals or syndicates whose possible first desire
would be the transfer of their conversions.
S.A. Government now owns every line of
railway in the province; a year ago it bought
the private line to Glenelg to complete the
policy of State control; and yet the
Adelaide and suburban municipalities, which
strongly oppose State control of tramways,
want to barter away their privileges to a
foreign company. S. A. Register, which
barracks loudly for the syndicate, advocates
allowing “ the pioneering and the possibly
risky experimentalising” to be done by private
capitalists and opposes the “needless intrusion of
the National Government into the arena .... an
innovation which, once permitted, would lead to
harassing and costly confusion,”. But this
ridiculous argument is no more applicable to.
tramway ownership than to that of railways,
telegraphs, telephones and waterworks. Think
of the antediluvian intellect of a paper which thinks.
an electric tram in a city of 150,000 population is a,
risky experiment and a reckless fooling with the
unknown and unexpected ! With a Greater
Adelaide in existence, municipal control of tram-
ways _ would be possible and politic, but a Trust is.
practically impossible with the fifteen or twenty
local bodies now existing and quarrelling within a .
ten-mile radius of Adelaide, and the only alterna-
tive to State control is ownership by a private'
company. The State can raise the money more:
cheaply, therefore it can carry the people:
more cheaply; it has the engineering staff in
existence; and it won’t load the trams with
needless expenses for boodle and first-robbers’
profits. When the municipalities, provided they
can agree, propose to immediately hand over the
great tramway property to a syndicate for 40
years—well, that isn’t the kind of municipal
ownership that is wanted.
The Battle in Boerland.
A multitude in Australia have labored under the
impression that the war in S’Africa was waged
against the Boers. It transpires, at this period,
on the authority of Jingo journalism, that the
valor of the British and the dash of the Australian
Bushmen were requisitioned rather against certain
of the Uitlanders—the white miners and the
skilled artisans. For instance the following is
extracted from the editorial columns of Sydney
Evening News :
Upon returning to the subject of Johannesburg, which
is the uppermost one in connection with South Africa to-
day, one finds that the chief town of the Rand may have
troubles peculiar to itself, as well as the general difficulty
of settling down after the war, which will affect all South
Africa. A correspondent of the Pall Mall Gazette has
written repeated warnings as to one great danger hanging
over the people of Johannesburg, not from Boers but from
others. Says this writer in his latest communication :
“Speaking of the capitalist, one danger may stare
us in the face in the new situation, and that is the com-
mercial and labour conditions that will probably be
created in Johannesburg. You know the history of Kim-
berley. It was once densely populated, and there was
plenty for everybody. The town was a small Johannes-
burg in some respects, until the amalgamation scheme
was instituted and carried into effect, and then the
money-making period came to a close. A ring fence was
drawn around the town, and to-day one only exists, trades
in the town being practically at the mercy and with the
permission of the De Beers Company. It is expected that
Johannesburg will be similarly treated. It is believed
that the mines will amalgamate and the staffs will be re-
duced—l mean the white staffs of engineers and general
workers. That will be blow number one. Then the
amalgamated companies may import all the necessaries for
their “ boys,” who number many thousands ; and the mo-
ment that is done, the food stores, the outfitters, and all the
other traders will begin to collapse ; the hundreds of staffs
employed will be thrown out; and there will be bank-
ruptcy and ruin. Johannesburg will become another
Kimberley then. This is a contingency that the best
men anticipate, and if it arises I predict that within 12
months you wfll have riots that will develop into a civil
war. The working man considers that he has made


Johannesburg, and he will not tamely submit to a state
of affairs that will drive him out of it.” This is a branch
of the question that should be considered b3' those think-
inff of going to South Africa, though it may be presumed
that the Imperial Government would interpose to prevent
any wholesale impoverishment of the working people of
Johannesburg.
After all, the chief difference between the
“disloyal” Bulletin and its Jingo contemporary
is that the former said this sort of thing early and
often, and the latter says it late.
The Buzzing of the Plies.
The Pastoralists’ Union of N.S.W. and other
weighty bodies of great beam and tonnage have
gathered themselves together to complain that
Attorney-General Wise’s Conciliation and Arbi-
tration Bill is dangerous and wrong. The follow-
ing, which sounds like the buzzing of many flies
on a hot day, was a recent deliverance on the sub-
ject by the chairman of the Pastoralists. It
should be read in a dead monotone, without stops,
to get the full flavor:—
They were also threatened with a legalised minimum-
wage, the tendency of which would be to throw the aged
and. less able-bodied out of employment, for where a
minimum-wage was fixed employers would only engage
those from whom they could get the largest return, and
the older and weaker laborer would be passed aside and
become a burden to the State or his friends. If there
were any evils or grievances which the worker wished to
have rectified, the remedy would not be found in this
class of legislation, nor would his condition be ulti-
mately improved by it. Better far for Parliament to
seek to establish confidence in the investment of capital
and the development of industrial enterprise by securing
to every man the right to offer his labor without interfer-
ence by anyone where it was needed. It might be argued
that such an open market for the labor of the working
mm would tend to reduce wages, but that by no means
followed. On the other hand, they should expect to see
a necessary and consequent demand for labor, with in-
creasing wages, and general prosperity in accordance
with the progress of natural laws, especially in a young
country, with its great natural resources and its labor
supply as yet unthreatened by the competition of over-
crowded populations
And all these dronesome old platitudes have buzzed
laboriously on the same window-pane for a
century and got no further forward. They
are like the voices of a dead Genesis
and Exodus crying in a petrified wilderness.
On any wet, dark, windy night, among the
tombs of any cemetery where rich men lie buried,
you can hear the ghosts mechanically wailing to
each other among the lies and the inscriptions
about “ establishing confidence in the investment
of capital,” and the “ development of industrial
enterprise,” and “this country’s great natural
resources.” If you find a fat Tory asleep any-
where after dinner, and hit him suddenly in the
lower chest, you can knock these three dry groans
out of him at once, because he is full of them by
force of habit, and the things that come out of a
man are naturally those that are in him. They
are the cry of an automatic moaning-machine that
is prepared to grieve at a street corner whenever
you put a penny in the slot. Also they are the
Tory’s remedy for everything under the sun efr
elsewhere. He has tried them for about a cen-
tury, and wages grew lower and prospects blacker
and debt larger, but the old infallible remedy
changeth not. It is a shibboleth and an abraca-
dabra. Half the elderly affluent gentlemen who
were tight on Mafeking night were found speaking
severely to a lamp-post' or a horse-trough about
the necessity for establishing confidence in the
investment of capital, or warning a letter-box not
to put its trust in agitators, or to aim at a mini-
mum wage, but to rely on the development of the
resources of this great country.
“The Bulletin” Knows a Bank.
The appeal of Darius Hunt, of Toowoomba (Q.),
to those shareholders who were beguiled, like
himself, by disgracefully unreliable balance-sheets,
to invest their money in the bank of MTlwraith’s
many overdrafts just before it went into revela-
tions, recalls a rush of old memories. Darius
Hunt urges his fellow-sufferers to join him in
another effort to prosecute the heartless, soulless
gang which ruined so many Queenslanders and
others. The shares of the Queensland National
Bank were worth nearly £l2 each as late as 1890.
They are worth nothing now; in fact, they are
fairly worth less than nothing, for the whole paid-up
and callable capital isn’t nearly sufficient to cover
losses. They were kept up for years by reckoning
bad debts as good assets ; by reckoning as income
the irrecoverable interest charged on paper upon
irrecoverable overdrafts; through the aid of
the Queensland Government which floated a
big loan and deposited the _ money in _ the
Q.N. Bank, where most of it is now in a
reconstructed state, by which loan the Q.N. Bank
got some cash to go on with and was enabled to
stave off the hideous exposure a while longer ; and
by the management buying up the bank’s own
shares with the depositors’ money (the event
proved that it wasn’t with the shareholders’
money, for that was all lost) in order to keep up
prices. There was some kind of a trial, The
Bulletin vaguely remembers, for conspiracy, but
Chief Justice Griffith summed up so ably in
favor of the accused directors and others that they
were promptly acquitted. The case put to the
jury was, in effect, “ If these men conspired to
misrepresent the state of the bank, whom did
they conspire against: Was it against themselves,
or against the bank, or the shareholders or the
depositors ? If they didn’t conspire against any-
body there could be no conspiracy.” And it
appeared so obvious that the alleged conspiracy
was not, to any serious extent at least, against the
parties named (assuming the shareholders and
depositors to mean those who were in the bank
before it went wrong) and so much care was taken
not to mention the party really conspired against,
if there was any conspiracy, that the prosecution
ended right there. Of course the manage-
ment didn’t conspire against itself. Nor
against the old shareholders except in the
sense that it prevented them taking steps,
when the collapse first began, to get new
directors of a less hideously incompetent order
who might have prevented the disease growing
worse. Otherwise the old shareholders were
rather benefited than otherwise by having the aw-
ful state of things concealed from them for a time ;
the alleged conspiracy only meant that the man
who might otherwise have gone grey or mad in
’9l didn’t do so till ’95 or ’96, so he really gained
by it, in extra dividends and extra peace of mind.
As for the depositors who were already in the
bank when it went wrong, they were certainly in-
duced by false representations to stay in, but the
jury, decided that that was a mere trifle and didn’t
signify. The persons most distinctly conspired
against from the day when the first unreliable
balance-sheet came out were the public, and they
were hardly mentioned. Every unreliable
balance-sheet was a conspiracy, intentional or
otherwise, to make the outside public buy shares
or put deposits in the rotten bank. From the day
when the Q.N. Bank’s balance-sheets ceased to be
a true statement of the real value of its assets,
every person who bought shares or put his money
in deposit on the strength of these documents
was the victim of something which, if not legally
a conspiracy, certainly should be one. The old
shareholders got something back in dividends
before their scrip became only worth its weight at
the paper-mill or thereabouts. But the people,
aud they were many, who were beguiled into buy-
ing Q.N.B. shares just before the awful news
came out that the scrip was, and had long been,
valueless, had no such alleviation, and their griev-
ance was so vast and outrageous that any decently
civilised country would have tried to do them
some kind of justice. Daiiius Hunt, of Too-
woomba, wants to make another effort at obtain-
ing redress. The Bulletin wouldn’t give much
for Dahius Hunt’s chance.
«.
The Thin End of the Wedge.
New South Wales in general is assured by Premier
Lyne that he is a cordial advocate of the proposal
to put all the 41 municipalities of Sydney under
one municipal government —a decent municipal
government elected by the people, and with such
extensive powers that it can do some really good
work for the unkempt metropolis. His little
patchwork measure for the partial repair of the
municipal state of Sydney itself—one municipality
out of 41—is to be merely regarded as an instal-
ment. In view of the evidence the statement
appears incredible. If Premier Lyne intends to
establish a Greater Sydney Council at any reason-
ably adjacent date, then his partially-repaired
Sydney City Council will be abolished before it
has time to do any good worth mentioning. If he
intends his new City Council to do any serious
food as a municipal governing body, then
e will have to leave it in existence long
enough to give it a fair trial, and that
means indefinitely postponing the establish-
ment of the Greater Sydney Council which is to
replace it. If the idea is to create a body intelli-
gent enough to draw up some useful scheme of
consolidation, then any ordinary individual would
imagine that Mr. Lyne would apply his present
reform to all the 41 councils of Greater Sydney.
Supposing it is intended to leave to the councils
the work of drafting a fair, progressive, and work-
able scheme of consolidation, it is necessary to get,
41 councils with sufficient progressive spirit to see
the need for such a work, and sufficient intelli-
gence to carry it out; and to reform one council
while leaving the other 40 in all their original
narrowness, conservatism, parochialism, bigotry,
and billingsgate brings the reform no nearer. The
measure is in itself an improvement on present
municipal methods, yet its benefits are so care-
fully restricted to one out of the 41 Sydney muni-
cipalities that it would appear that the long, sad-
faced man who runs the affairs of N.S.W. in so
conscientiously wooden a fashion has a bitter per-
sonal grievance against the other 40, as well as
against the country towns in general. His apolo-
gists claim that William is only acting cautiously
and “ getting in the thin end of the wedge,” but
the man who gets in the thin end of the wedge,
and then leaves it at that for some years before
proceeding further, is apt to be so long in getting
the log split that an enraged employer gives him
the sack.
+
The Underpaid Politician.
South Australian politician Caldwell lately
raised his voice to declare that there should be no
reduction of the salaries of State legislators after
Federation. A reduction in their number, he
said, was justifiable enough, but a reduction in
their wages was an absurdity. The Bulletin
goes further even than this. It believes that the
number of State legislators should be cut down
about one-half, either by reducing the membership
of both Houses 50 per cent, or (if this would make
them ridiculously small) by abolishing the Upper
Houses, and cutting down the Lower ones by
about 25 per cent. And it would increase the
salaries by 50 per cent. Even allowing for the
diminished importance of the State Legislatures
under Federation, the salaries now paid are
absurdly inadequate. After all the purely Fede-
ral work has been transferred to the Commonwealth
Parliament, a local Legislature, even in a small
province, will still have incomparably more busi-
ness to look after than six of the biggest financial
institutions of Australia put together. And it is
business, too, of a vastly more important kind.
Victoria is a small State, yet its State Legislature
will still have to take care of about £70,000,000
worth of assets (railways, public lands and other
kinds), to look after the health and morals of
1,200,000 people, and to administer, probably, an
income of about £4,000,000. A private institution
of far, very far, less than this size would think
itself lucky if it got a good chief manager to do its
business in consideration of getting a life billet at
£SOOO a year; the state expects to get a man to
do its work well at £IO4O a year, with the proviso
that he may be sacked at a moment’s notice,
without compensation, and with the general
understanding that he can only hope to hold the .
billet five or six years at most, after spending the
best part of a lifetime in climbing up to
it. As for its board of directors (which is
Parliament), after paying their inevitable election
expenses they are expected to give practically all
their time and a mature judgment to their huge
task for the wages of a junior clerk; and the
wages are far more precarious than a junior
clerk’s, for he has at least a reasonable certainty
that his billet will be continuous. So members
are mostly divided into five classes : (1) Old men
who have made their pile and give the fg ( g end of
a failing intellect to the country ; (2) Men who
make up the deficiency of salary by the profitable
grinding of axes ; (3) Professional men whose
business lies in the capital and who legislate in
their spare time because it is a cheap way of
advertising their business; (4) Failures who are
flad to get the miserable junior clerk’s pittance
ecause they are worth even less than that out-
side ; (5) A small—very small —crowd of patriots,
misguided or" otherwise, who make the sacrifice
for the good of their ungrateful country. And
however badly the public is served in the worst-
governed State in Australasia it still gets quite as
good a Government as it pays for. Doubtless the
bulk of existing politicians are not worth more
than they get —but the country can’t reasonably
expect to get men who are worth more till it pays
more.
+
White Man and Chow.'
“ Yang Anyut ” on matters Chinese, as regards
the present far Eastern imbroglio :
How stands the white man in the eyes of an impartial
judge—could one be found ? Let us look back and ask
ourselves : Can the Greatest Empire pride herself on the
result of the war of ’49, which added Hongkong—now
second greatest port in the world—to her possessions ?
When, up to 1860, did Britain do aught to advance that
education and civilisation which, though it would
enlighten the East, would bring no grist to the Empire’s
mill ?
When the bankruptcy of India was threatened by the
exclusion from China of Hindoo-grown opium ; when
ruin stared the Canton and Mincing Lane merchant in
the face—then Britain arose and smote, and India’s
finances were saved. Mincing Lane was propitiated ;
Canton merchants were indemnified for losses they never
suffered ; and Ilong Kong, “ Island of Sweet Waters,”
came under Britain’s sway. When the civil war came—
the people against the corrupt government—on whose
side was Britain ? When poor fanatical Gordon was sent
to China, the emissary of the “ freest country in the
world ” was to use his sword in defence of a corrupt Em-
?eror and a corrupter court. And in the end, what of it ?
he invincible army—the “ Ever Victorious ” —blindly
following “ the man who knew no fear,” triumphed, the
Nine Wangs were beheaded, and the Soochow streets ran
blood till it was dried up by fire. Europe, outside of
Russia, had not then awakened to the “ magnificent pos-
sibilities ”of Cathay. All the while, trading concessions
were being obtained, and foreigners waxed rich—unpro-
tected and unafraid. Then came the “ Gawspel,” and
with it the seeds of mischief.
France went to war with China in ’B2, and a year later
retired with a little land and less honor. In ’95, after Japan
had pluckily tackled and overcome her huge neighbor,
Britain stood by and passively permitted Russia to grab the
spoils ; but now, in her hour of need, Britain calls loudly
on friend Japan to help against the corrupt Chinese Govt,
which she (Britain) has not only countenanced for years,
but has supported with blood and treasure.
Another lesson on the urgent necessity of a Crown
Defender, of equal status with the Crown Prose-
cutor, is furnished by the case of Isabella Dow-
ney, put on trial in Melbourne last week, for the
fourth time, for murder. The paltry sum allowed
by the State for defence purposes (in capital
charges only) was insufficient to fee the barrister
who had thrice previously defended her. The
heavy cost of the three trials had left her desti-
tute. Sue couldn’t supplement the Crown’s
miserable dole out of her own means,
and as her previous barrister wouldn’t take the
ease at the Crown’s starvation figure, she asked
for an adjournment that she might hunt up the
best legal light obtainable at the price. The
beautiful justice of such trials, not in Victoria
alone, but all over Australasia, is apparent
when it is considered that on one side are
the best lawyers obtainable, backed by the
Crown Law Department, the detectives and
police, and, on the other, a penniless woman,
forced to battle for her life as best she can with
only money enough to pay the fee usually charged
by an obscure barrister, and practically nothing
for the hunting-up of the most necessary evidence.
It may happen to any man that he shall have to
defend himself against a charge of which he may
be quite innocent, and perhaps beggar himself in
doing so. Yet it is quite as much the duty of the
Crown to defend as to prosecute, and, in prose-
cuting on its present lines, it only lays itself open
to the charge that it holds every accused person
guilty until he proves himself innocent, and, if he
hasn't the means, or doesn’t know how to go about
it, or is friendless and unknown, so much the
worse for him.
♦
A curious struggle has set in for possession of the
first Governor-General. The Constitution pro-
vides that the permanent seat of Parliament,
Government, and Governor-General is to be in
N.S.W., over 100 miles from Sydney, but that,
till the capital is selected, the Federal Parliament
shall sit in Melbourne. N.S.W. Premier Lyne
claims that, though the Parliament is to meet
temporarily in Melbourne, the clause doesn’t
authorise the Gov.-General to reside temporarily
there, and that he can’t legally perform any
executive act outside N.S.W. Therefore Lyne
wants to house the Gov.-General at Sydney till
the capital is decided on. Victorian Premier
M'Lean replies that, by Lyne’s own reasoning,
the Gov.-General can’t reside in Sydney, for Syd-
ney is barred from being the Federal capital as
much as Melbourne is; but that Lyne, by
his own logic, may put his Excellency up
at Boppy Mountain, or any other place
in N.S.W. outside the 100-mile radius till the
permanent capital is decided on. Meanwhile it
would be interesting to know whence comes the
theory that, because the permanent capital is to
be in N.S.W., all executive acts must be per-
formed in N.S.W. to be legal. For if that is so
then it follows, with equal logic, that all executive
acts, to be legal, must be performed in that
particular part of NsS.W. which is to be the
capital, and as the site of the capital isn’t decided
yet, that is impossible. Therefore no executive
act whatever can be legally done, for they must
all be done at the capital and even the executive
act of fixing the capital being null and void until
after the capital is fixed, everything stops short.
What is the ground-work of the contention that
no executive act is legal unless done in the
province which contains the capital? Are all
British executive acts illegal if they are done out-
side of London, for instance ? And is his Ex. of
such surpassing value that it is worth while
clawing for possession of him in this absurd
fashion?
Kingston’s friend Dashwood, Judge and Govt.
Resident in the Northern Territory of S.A., told
a Parliamentary Select Committee, when in Ade-
laide lately, that blacks had been “shotdown like
crows in the Territory”; and Grainger, M.P.
(Dashwood, to repeat, being Kingston’s friend)
demanded that the Govt, should “call upon Mr.
Dashwood to prove his assertion, or take the
necessary steps to redeem the honor of South Aus-
tralia. ” Judge Dashwood has now sent down his
report; and ‘ ‘ the honor of South Australia ”is still
in need of redemption. The Victoria River
natives had been troublesome; but, says Dash-
wood :
I said it was notorious that they had been shot like
crows by diggers travelling from Queensland to Kimberley,
and that on a great many stations where the blacks
speared cattle they were shot by pastoralists and their
stockmen, and that probably this treatment had had the
effect of making the natives treacherous and vindictive.
And he sticks to what he says. In fact, he adds :
I also said that, in connection with the Daly River
murders, organised parties went out to shoot the natives
right and left, whether they had committed the offence
or not, and that a tribe had been cruelly murdered by
whites.
And he sticks to that, too. Of many police and
other reports quoted in support, this, an official
report written by a mounted-constable, is worthy
of a collector of whiskers from dead Boers:—
What the other parties had done I do not know, but I
believe the natives' have received such a lesson this time
as will exercise a salutary effect over the survivors in the
time to come. One result of the expedition has been to
convince me of the superiority of the Martini-Henry rifle
both for accuracy of aim and quickness of action.
♦
Brisbane Telegraph, a lone, lorn, persistent
weeper over the grave of Parochialism, bids its
country a sad farewell in a leader entitled “ Our
Final Financial Year”—the final one under the
Parochial system, that is. And it writes this
epitaph :
We have had sole control of our own affairs to date, for
more than 40 years ; and have made a very good thing of
it. The legend is that we commenced business with 7s.
6d. in the Treasury. We leave off with a year’s revenue
set down at £4,588,206. If Federation is to do better
than that for us, by all means let us have Federation.
But we feel as if we were being hoodwinked. We feel as
any man would on his having had £lOO of his hard-earned
money, all his savings, violently taken from him by a
bully who says that he has no intention of robbing his
victim, that he takes the money because he can use it
better for its simple-minded owner than he can do for
himself.
The Bulletin urges.this pessimistic paper not to
cry, for the loss isn’t so great as it looks. Foyty
years ago Queensland had 7s. 6d. in its treasury—
a clear balance of 7s. Gd., and no debts, and prac-
fcically all its public lands yet to sell. Now it
hasn’t 7s. 6d. clear. It has sold the best of its
lands and has a debt of about £35,000,000, and the
publio works it has to show for the money are of
so little value as compared with the debt that
in 1899 they only paid £689,436 towards
the interest bill, which was £1,274,244. The
other £584,808 had to be made up by taxation.
So nearly half the debt isn’t represented by pay-
able assets, and Queensland, which was 7s 6d to
the good 40 years ago, is now £15,000,000 or
£16,000,000 to the bad, in addition to having suc-
cessfully disencumbered itself of many of its best
land assets. If the system which produced these
results is going, any sensible paper would be as glad
as if a plague-case was being shifted off the premises,
or a violent maniac who had been in the house a
long time was seen leaving by the front door
with the fixed expression of a lunatic who didn’t
mean to return.
The question of a daily Hansard is “to receive
consideration ” from N.S. W. Govt. If the daily
Hansard is simply to report the froth of dull
members talking at length to their constituents,
then it is not wanted. What is feasible and ad-
visable, however, is to cease advertising in the
ordinary newspapers (which now receive huge
indirect subsidies, mostly wasted, from the State),
and issue a Govt, newspaper—merging Hansard,
the Govt. Gazette, and half-a-dozen little depart-
mental publications into one. The cost of the new
venture would be saved from the present colossal
ad vt.-bill. TheGovT. Newspaper could bemadein-
teresting enough to secure a profitable circulation.
It would have a monopoly, in the first instance, of
Govt, announcements; and the public could be
taught to look to it for all Govt, information. As
things are now, much money is frittered away
annually, and you have to look in a dozen places
for Govt. news.
♦
“Another Pedagogue ” to The Bulletin: —
Concerning N.S.W. State teachers in schools above
their classification. lie “ Ted ” (B. 14/7/’oo>—a teacher
should not be kept in such a school to the detriment of
teachers holding schools much below their classification,
but it is only fair to give a teacher a chance to qualify
himself for his school, should it go above his classifica-
tion. This is done, I think, in nearly all cases ; but here’s
where the trouble comes in Many such teachers go for
exam., fail, and still retain their'schools. This sort of
thing is kept up year after year, the teacher thinking
that by going for exam, he is entitled to hold his school,
while the department, by keeping him in his school,
seems to say so too. Another item of dissatisfaction :
“ A,” a second-class teacher with 14 or 15 years’ good
service, is often in an Bth class school (£148), while “ B,”
a 8-A teacher with far less service, is very often in a 7th
class school (£l7l) —or sometimes in a 6th class, but only
drawing 7th class pay. Also, many schools have lately
been reduced in class, the teachers not being responsible
for a diminution in attendance, due to the wet
weather or to children leaving at 14. The Minister
recently said it was necessary to lower the class of
school in order to make teachers secure a better attend-
ance of pupils, which amounts simply to fining teachers
because the “ compulsory clauses ” are useless or inopera-
tive. If all teachers were treated alike there would not be
such cause for complaint, but it often happens that one
teacher’s school is reduced and another’s is not—-under
exactly similar circumstances ; which suggests favoritism.
Merit is scarcely recognised in the matter of appoint-
ments. Influence—Departmental influence especially—
does the trick. Witness the rush of teachers to the
“ Education office ” on Saturdays and during vacations,
to back-up their applications by personal appeal and
political influence. This kind of thing is obnoxious to
teachers in general, who, taking them as a whole, are
democratic in ideas—their big (forced) “ contribution ”
to the Jingo Fund notwithstanding. We hear a lot about
the heads of the Education Dept, being good organisers,
but the universal dissatisfaction existing tells another
story. This dissatisfaction will always exist until a better
system of emoluments is adopted, and the only system
likely to be popular is payment-by-classification, with due
consideration to seniority and results.
N.S.W. Parliament should rivet attention on the
Bill Premier Lyne is preparing to deal with the
Governor’s salary and the allowances of his staff.
The bringing down of such a Bill in such a hurry
—at all events, before time is given to planning a
reduction of M’s. P.—is token by many to mean
throwing dust in the public eye. The presence of
a Gov.-General will absolutely dwarf the State
official, and with the fact in evidence it is ques-
tionable whether the post should be valued at over
£lOOO a year. But at present view, if Premier
Lyne comes down with a salary of £5OOO, or £4OOO,
many will treat the reduction as substantial and
the Bill will pass. When the Federation starts,
and someone calls for a cut-down, the cry will be,
“ Oh, we arranged that six months ago, and must
Eve the law a trial.” Members should meet
yne’s Bill with searching criticism. The ques-
tion whether a separate imported State Governor,
“with his staff,” is really wanted should be
threshed out; and, if not imported, whether the
duties —mostly rubber-stamp ones—could not be
combined with those of some other official.
Thus Melbourne Argus
So well do the kanakas like plantation work that a
large proportion of them re-engage after their original
time has expired, or come back again, after a trip to their
native island, preferring civilisation to -savagery.
It is unfortunately true that a large number of
kanakas remain in Queensland after their time
has expired. Some re-engage, it is also true, but
a very large number do no such thing, hence the
frequency of the unspeakable “ walk-about” who
loafs half his time, puts in his leisure in Chinese
dens, arid renders the secluded roads and paths of
a district simply impassable to women and
children. It may be news to the Argus to hear
that certain Q. towns have recently petitioned
visiting Ministers to take steps towards compelling
Tommy Walkabout to do something besides turn-
ing decent streets into a Pandemonium under the
inspiration of Ah Cow’s surreptitious whisky.
Further, the kanakas who do re-engage don’t re-
engage by any means on the old terms. They
work, very often, at a rate only slightly lower
than that of the white laborer j they look down on
the simple “ boy ” just fresh from the islands; and
they cling to Queensland principally because they
are so addicted to European vices that the simple
existence on the islands would be quite intoler-
able to them. “Prefer civilisation to savagery”
do they ? _O, yes ! The civilisation of bad grog,
gaudy raiment, Jap. women, Saturday night
rioting, and sundry other garish and smellful con-
diments.
An interesting statement of the number of last
year’s convictions under the Drunkards and
Liquor Act has been laid on the table of
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly. Plain drunks and
drunks-cum-disorderly-conduct totalled 23,000 or
thereabouts j cases of Sunday-trading, also trading
after hours and selling without a licence, were
numerous enough, but the number of convictions
for sell ini/ adulterated liquor was one. Just think
of it l The Liquor Act of N.S.W. is so carelessly,
not to say corruptly, administered that of
all the dealers who vend wicked beer and
vile spirits, and whose damnable stock-in-trade
cannot bear examination by any excise officer or
health officer bent on protecting the publio
stomach against bad stuff— of all those notorious
and pei-sistent law-breakers in whose conviction
and exposure the whole community would have a
more or less personal interest—only one was pro-


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
op thb UNITED STATES.
Financial Position as at January 1, 1900.
ASSETS ... ... - ••• ••• £58,373,185
Increase in Assets during 1899 ... ... ... ... 4,546,248
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 12,711,975
Increase in Surplus during 1899 ... ... ... ... 793,123
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... i.. ... ... 219,670,088
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1899 ... ... 14,012,322
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.O. }
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.; F. NORTON MANNING-, Esq., M.D.
General Manager for Australasia, O. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’AROY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
secuted during last year. The thing is too absurd.
We have temperance societies, morality associa-
tions, virtue leagues,, and all sorts of organisations
professing an earnest desire to diminish the evils
of drink, but thusfar we have never a vigilance
committee for purifying the liquor trade.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Rose of Persia.”
Royal “ Absent-Minded Beggar."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Criterion “ The Duke’s Motto.”
Palace British Biograph Co.
Lyceum War Pictures.!
Centenary Hall Donald Macdonald's Lectures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Tyranny of Tears.”
Her Majesty’s “Fedora.”
Theatre Royal “ The World Against Her.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Town Hall Scherek’s Orchestra (Saturday
afternoon).
The “ Rose of Persia,” Hood and Sulli-
van’s new opera, which was staged at Her
Gracious Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney, on Saturday,
is the best novelty J. C. Williamson has produced
since a date so remote that this writer gives it up
as a bad job. It is a real comic opera ; one that
Gilbert might have written in his better days,
and with music such as Sullivan used to compose
regularly before he was blighted with a title and
had a handle sticking out of his name as if he was
a black frying-pan. It is even possible to read
the book at home and enjoy it, and the opera
which can stand being read by candle-light in a
boarding-house is a good opera and has a long life
before it. Its plot isn’t ponderous or elaborate.
Sultan Somebody’s wife grew weary of being
confined in the harem for the term of her natural
life, and in sheer cussedness she broke out, ac-
companied by three slave-girls, and went dis-
guised to look at the dogs in the street. And
being scared to death at the multiplicity of dogs
the party fled for refuge in at the door of Hassan,
a wealthy philanthropist with 25 wives, who
formed the Labor-party of that era, and enter-
tained beggars and deadbeats, and declined to go
into society because it shocked his democratic
instincts. Persian justice had just decided to
execute Hassan as an unusual person, and Hassan
got hideously drunk to avoid thinking about it.
And, being drunk, he conceived the idea that he
was the Persian monarch, and when Sultan Some-
body, in disguise, running after a pretty girl,
burst into the premises, Hassan, the democrat,
thought his monarch was a coal-heaver or some-
thing, andoffered, withanancientPersianhiccup, to
kick him all over his dominions. Wherefore Justice
sat down paralysed, for there weren’t trees enough
in Persia to sufficiently hang such a man upon, or
wells enough to drop him into as lie should be
dropped, considering the size of his sin, or water
enough to boil him properly ip. But the weary,
sated, much - grovelled -to ,monarch conceived
almost a liking for the only man who had ever
used bad language to him, and said he felt
refreshed. And Hassan woke up next morning
on the throne, with a swelled head and the crown
of Persia tottering over his ear, and was assured
on all hands that he was really the Sultan recover-
ing from a prolonged drunk which had affected
his memory, and for 15min. or so he ran the
empire with one damaged eye and a fearful craving
for drink in his mouth. After that period he was
dethroned, but by much hard lying his disrespect
to his monarch was explained. Also, the Sultana’s
conduct was untruthfully accounted for in so many
ways that the Sultan’s head began to go round
and he gave it up.
* • • •
The music of the “ Rose of Persia ” is ex-
cellent throughout, and almost every one of the
songs is more or less worth remembering. That
of Abdallah, the Persian clergyman, “When
Islam first arose, a tower upon a rock,” the
monarch’s plaint about the mixed state of society,
and Hassan’s ditty concerning one Thomas, a
small but cheerful street-Arabian who had no
fixed abode, but earned a precarious living by
running after the tram-car with the morning
paper, are perhaps better worth remembering than
the others, but even the worst composition of the
lot is above the average. The dialogue, too, is
bright, and the opera is full of good acting parts.
Browillow’s Sultan may be fairly classed with
his old Henri of Navarre. Bathurst, as the
Persian clergyman, gets about the best chance
he has had up to date, and proves fully worthy
of it. And Lauri, as Hassan, the philan-
thropist, who is a temporary monarch with a
swelled head, about reaches the high-water mark
of his career as a humorist. As a rich man with
disreputable clothes, low tastes, large feet, and 25
wives, Hassan is a circumstance of great mirth
from beginning to end. Miss Dorothy Vane, as
Hassan’s oldest and angriest wife, has a heavy
part and plays it not more heavily than .might be
expected. Kenningham awakes a brotherly feel-
ing in the heart of a pressman. He is a Persian
reporter, who goes round in brown clothes and a
wonderful tall nat, and narrates things that didn’t
happen for a consideration. As the earliest
sample of the press, he calls for respect, and he
plays the part in a way that does credit to the
profession, but the rush of the opera carries him
off his legs just as he is about to commence a story
which he admits to be unfit for publication, and
the story is unfortunately lost. Miss Winston
Weir lifts up a rather tired voice as a rather
wooden sultana, but considering Dorothy Vane,
winsome Carrie Moore, the ballet, and about £2OOO
worth of scenery, her comparative failure is of less
importance than it might be. “ Rose of Persia ”
is so big a success that it can stand one small
drawback.
** * *
At the risk of wearisome reiteration it is
again mentioned that a “ Rose of Persia ” matinee
takes place at Her Majesty’s to-morrow (Friday).
Proceeds go to the Sydney Mail Fund in aid of
the Children’s Hospital.
36 36 36 36
Alfred Dampier has revived the almost
forgotten “ Duke’s Motto ” at Sydney Criterion.
It is a play of the days of the Regent Orleans, and
is glorified with many titles and garnished with
much cocked-hat. It belongs to that period when
the nobility couldn’t get its proper sleep through
being out murdering other noblemen all night.
The duke’s motto is, “I am here” —which he
wasn’t, though his dead body was present. Dam-
pier carries off the duke’s infant when the duke is
killed in the first act, and the other duke forces
the first duke’s widow to marry him, and hunts
after Dampier and the infant for 15 years. And
when the second duke and his factotum and his
secretary and his bravo and his hunchback and his
hired murderer find Dampier, that gentleman
slays the hunchback, and comes forth two seconds
later in the hunchback’s green clothes and his
whiskers —which were evidently movable. And
as nobody knows the difference, Dampier takes
the hunchback’s place in the second duke’s house-
hold, and spends his time calling out suddenly, “I
am here”—which makes the second duke turn
pale and jump several feet in the air. It might be
supposed that the second duke would stop this
out of Dampier’s salary, but he doesn’t.
» • * •
Dampier, in the hunchback’s clothes and
still quite unsuspected, gradually undermines the
second duke, and by dint of calling out suddenly
round corners that he is here, ultimately restores
the lost girl to her mother —who hasn’t been out-
side the house for 15 years, and looks all the
younger for it. So the daughter, who was handed
out of a window on a dark night to a complete
stranger, who merely said he was there, which he
obviously was, for he couldn’t have said it if he
had been absent infants of noble birth were
habitually handed out of windows at that period—
comes back proudly by the door with the Incrimi-
nating Document in her hand, and re-enters into
her property. The document is her birth-certifi-
cate. In dramas, the fact of a lady haying a
birth-certificate or a dog-registry-receipt in her
hand proves conclusively that she is the person or
dog mentioned therein, and no questions
asked. The second duke is routed after a severe
engagement, and flies in great disorder, leaving
his ammunition behind. Alfred Rolfe rather
takes this paper’s fancy as the second duke.
He has a martial bearing and the black tuft
of a wicked life is on his chin. Alfred
Dampier takes the hero in a serious spirit, and
gives a fine rendering of a big, manly adventurer
who badly wants his hair cut on the Spanish
frontier. John Forde, Howard Smith, and Miss
Blanche Clements also deserve honorable mention
as persons who keep a wildly-humorous play on
its feet, and various nicely-clothed individuals and
some able and conscientious scenery are included
in the bill. The “ Duke’s Motto ”is a refreshing
drama to meet. People who are grey and weary
with the struggle to invent probable stories to
account for non-payment of the rent and other
things, find rest and soul-food in a dashing tale
that isn’t probable and doesn’t want to be.
• * » «
“ Merchant of Venice ” is to be repeated
at the Criterion to-morrow (Friday) night.
Otherwise the two dukes will rage every evening
in the cocked-hat of bygone France till further
notice.
36 36 36 36
The insulting Dutch gentleman who leaves
the Flag on the floor at Sydney Royal is still
engaged in his many nefarious projects—among
them the stealing of Baker’s infant and the arrest
of Miss Frances Ross on suspicion by a very brief
policeman. And the burglar who left his wife at
home with a black eye for he# only asset defeats
some of his projects, and states so proudly that it
is the duty of every soldier to defend a woman in
distress that his own battered missus drops quite
out of sight. The rest of the angry Boer’s schemes
are wrecked by Baker, and the Boer comes to a
bad end. The writer forgets the exact nature of
the end, but he fancies that the wicked Boer talks
himself to death on the veldt, or hangs himself
with a strip tom off a kopje.
36 36 36 36
The Anglo-American Bio-tableau is giving
quiet entertainments to moderate audiences at Syd-
ney Lyceum. The arrangement does not scintil-
late overmuch, but sometimes the picture gets up
and shakes itself and lies down again in a differ-
ent place, and on one occasion a horse appeared in
the middle and went out where it stood instead of
running down to the front and disappearing as a
very large horse making straight for the orchestra.
The want of perspective m Cinematographe
arrangements seems to point to a Chinese origin.
Between times Carden Wilson gave imitations of
well-known actors, some of whom are getting
shady in the public recollection. An outrage on
public feeling was committed by the programme
which said, “ Please turn over,” and when you
had complied, gave you no valuable advice about
Soap or Beans, or anything whatever.
* * *
The “ Only Genuine Biograph ” of the
Boer war is to open at Sydney Palace on Saturday.
The management swears that its pictures don’t
wobble, and also that it doesn’t descend to
the practice of having bogus battle scenes
photographed in a circus while supernumeraries
with false whiskers fall down for a small con-
sideration and some beer. In view of the hilarious
jokes contained in some-pictures recently inflicted
on Sydney’s suffering city, the writer has an in-
tention of getting up a genuine biograph of the
fight between David and Goliath, taken on the
spot by a Philistine photographer, but has post-
poned the thing for lack of time.
* 36 * *
War - lecturer Donald Macdonald com-
mences a series of five orations on the war and his
personal experiences therein at Sydney Centenary
Hall on Saturday. The Bulletin’s representative
is repairing his Scotch accent and getting measured
for his new kilt with a view to being present.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli seems gradually resolving
itself into a creche, where the infant phenomenon
is produced wholesale. The latest, Baby Parkes
to wit, is a clever, energetic youngster who flashes
a large, irresistible smile at the front stalls.
Unfortunately all the youngsters seem to know
only two songs, the one about the dolly and the
other about the coon, which coon the singer claims
to be herself. There is too much coon altogether
in Rickards’ show, seeing that the animal, how-
ever familiar in America, is absolutely unknown
to our baekblocks. What Rickards ought to do is
to give up his concert first part altogether, and
tack half the songs therein on a little playlet —the
call-boy could write it in his odd moments. It
need only be Australian and up-to-date, with
allusions to the bunyip and George Reid and other
local institutions.
** * *
Incidental to the big Nance O’Neil craze in
Melbourne came a matinee benefit performance of
“ Hedda Gabler ” last Friday. “ Hedda Gabler ”
is one of the least-unacted of Ibsen’s plays, and
the performance had sufficient interest of a dull
semi-cerulean sort to hold the attention of the
audience. The ingenuity of the stage-craft is
here very striking, even more so than in “The
Doll’s House,” which is saying much for “ Gabler.”
The dramatic effect made by the dropping of a
letter into the “Doll’s House” letter-box is re-
membered as an instance of the art that
wins a measure of toleration for Ibsen’s humor-
less “bluffs.” The Scandinavian pedant con-
structs all his plays cleverly, and, as a rule, he
brings in some interest at the front door. It is
strong interest as regards odour, but there doesn’t
seem to be much money in the game. Hard to
say whether good dramatists, such as Pinero, who
write to please an intelligent public, are not
actually better stage-craftsmen than Ibsen, the
pfoseur who presents bizarre humbug for the ap-
proval of a pretentious cult. Probably the chief
virtue in Ibsen’s work gets undue credit because it
(the virtue) stands almost alone. Nothing looks
so green as an oasis in a desert.
» » * *
Hedda Gabler is the young bride of a
simple-minded literary grafter who won a money
prize for an essay on Civilisation, and believes (like
Ibsen) that his little Scandinavian circle includes
the great bulk of the world rather than merely a
small sample of it. Hedda married her tame
student because she was curious, as Oscar Wilde
would say. She doesn’t care for him a little bit
when they come home after the honeymoon, bub
her distaste surely can’t be so glaringly appa-
rent as Nance O’Neil makes it, otherwise
her husband and her adopted relative would
not continue to call her a dear girl. The
Hedda whom Ibsen thought of must have been
a somewhat dissimulating cat. Before her marriage
she used to discuss forbidden things with a
bachelor friend, whom the unpleasant spinster
ultimately repulsed with a revolver simply because
she lacked courage to follow her desires. All this
is revealed in conversation after Hedda’s marriage,
the stage business at this point being very good-
much too good for the conversation. The gentle-
man (by name of Lovborg) has been converted
to teetotalism and is writing a book on
civilisation (they seem to be whales for
civilisation in Norway) under the influence of
another married woman, therefore Heddalures him
back to drink, partly to worry the other woman,
and partly because she (Hedda) wants to see the
man “ with vine leaves m his hair.” To cut short
a long story of small details, Hedda burns the
MSS. of the book on civilisation and tells Lovborg
to shoot bimself beautifully in the head, or breast,
seeing that he gets plain drunk when he ought to
have poetic vine leaves in his hair. Then Assessor
Brack (wbo also talks “blue” to the lady and is
more or less held in check by revolvers) brings a
confidential report to the effect that the other
fellow shot himself—un-Beautifully. Hedda,
after brooding over the un-Beautifulness, goes
behind a curtain and shoots herself Beautifully
through the temple. Her motives _ become
chaotic towards the finish, and her end is thank-
fully received.
* * * •
The Hedda of Nance O’Neil was Magda
over again—except that the massive lady scowled
stonily at the house more often than she turned
her back. No ; on second thoughts, Hedda was
more masculine than Magda. The she-devil pre-
sented by Nance couldn’t possibly impose upon a
husband and an aunt, or get the confidence of
another married woman. The rest of the per-
formance was mostly unimportant, the exceptions
being Plimmer, as the calm Assessor, and Carne
(effectively made-up), as the tame husband.
People laughed once or twice whilst Kingston was
aiming at tragic effect with his eyes and eye-
brows.
#* * *
On Saturday the Nance O’Neil co. ap-
peared in “Peg Woffington” (nee “Masks and
Faces”) at Her Majesty’s. Charles Reade’s old
comedy has not been played in Melbourne since
Mrs. Bernard Beere shone at the Opera House.
The present scribe gazed awhile at Nance O’Neil
and co. on Saturday night, and he thought with
some regret of charming Mrs. Bernard Beere, and
Herbert Standing as Triplet, and the moderate-
sized crowds that cheered their brilliant perform-
ance.
*# * #
At Melbourne Royal the hollow woefulness
of ‘‘World Against Her” was duly revived on
Saturday when the wife who began to mourn at
8.30 saw the dark clouds passing away at about
11.10 p.m. Two things wanting to make this
melodrama quite like all the others are Blood and
Retribution. Nobody gets murdered, neither do
the sins of the prosperous schemer in the black
silk hat find him out at the finish. He isn’t even
damaged in his bank account. He lifts his
shiny token of wickedness — viz., his hat —to
women he has wronged and strolls off to
wallow in luxury as usual. There is no
sort of poetic justice in the fifth act of “World
Against Her,” but the clouds roll away in a long-
expected manner, and the fact that a girl who fell
from grace before the curtain went up has grown
too respectable to curse the author of her shame
is noted as a point in the drama’s favor. Miss
Eugenie Duggan plays the suffering wife with a
pronunciation peculiarly her own, and which
sounds very weird in this case because she has to
speak nearly half-a-mile of despondent dialogue
during the evening. When she suffers
inaudibly Miss Duggan suits the action to
the silence and is an altogether pleasing
victim. Inman, as the husband; Willard, the
highly-tailored villain; Bert Bailey and Dora
Mostyn, as artless humorists in the Punch-and-
Judy line; Miss Hilda Fraser, and a few other
people help to hold up the clouds that finally
move onward. Miss Ada Guildford is the estim-
able spinster who loses her self-respect without a
shudder, and recovers it cheerfully. In the first
act she menaces the villain with a bright-red sun-
shade until he promises to be less inconstant in
his sinfulness. Later on Miss G. leads a better
life in a blue-green costume of almost the same
shade as her repentance. The drama all the way
through is attentive to small matters of detail, and
twelve scenes do credit to the management.
** * *
“ Manoeuvres of Jane’’ ceased at the Prin- .
cess’s on Tuesday, unless the advt. has misin-
formed this confiding journal, which went to press
too early to swear to its belief. Lord Quex and
his used-up friend from the West Coast of Africa
are back again for three nights, if The Bulletin
speaks truly. Also, Mrs. Brough will shock the'
awful modesty of the other manicuring ladies at a
matinee performance to-day (Thursday) by asking
them if they have never slept in a strange bed.
On Saturday the Brough Co. will produce Haddon
Chambers’ play, “The Tyranny of Tears,” for the
first time in Melbourne, and the chances are they
will get a crowded house.
*# # #
Paul Martinetti and his co-partners in
pantomime, all of whom improve on acquaintance
and seem well suited to their parts, will change
their programme at the Bijou next Saturday.
This is the last week of the furious quadrille, and
the wild, despairing somersault which lands Jack
Strop on the carcase of his mate. The clever
Ranger girls and one or two more “turns” that
look rather new again are back in the bill.
Also the four nice young Williams Sisters,
and especially the spontaneous little ’un, de-
serve a nod of approval for being such genuine
young sisters on the face of them that they almost
restore public faith in , the relationship of some
previous sisters at Rickards’ who didn’t look to
have had only one mother between them. Finally
The Bulletin desires to offer up thanks for the
disappearance of a recent infant “star,” now re-
placed by Alma Gray. The infant in question
was not the only recent attempt to rival Fannie
Powers, but she was the saddest, and the substi-
tution of Alma, now that Alma has ceased to lay
any claim to childhood, is a great comfort. A
blessing, in fact.
** * *
The big Biograph, en ron*e to Sydney, is
just finishing a four days’ re-appearance at Melb.
Athenaeum Hall. A last matinee will be crowded
in to-morrow (Friday), after which the. old films
and the new films showing the. Queen in Ireland
and the sojers of the Queen coming back wounded
from kloofs and kopjes will rush to catch the
train. At the Town Hall the tuneful music of
Scherek’s Orchestra broke out again last Saturday
afternoon, and the attendance was encouraging.
The concerts are to be continued weekly, as
before, and one of these Saturdays, perhaps,
Scherek will find himself bowing to a full house.
At Poverty Point.
The death of Orpheus M'Adoo sets one thinking of the
Fiske Jubilee Singers who came to Australia years ago on
the religious ticket. Opening in Melbourne Town Hall
under the management of wily Loudin (he invested the
boodle in a boot-factory) they were seriously taken for
emancipated slaves touring on behalf of a ’Murkan Negro
University, and that holy man, James Balfour, M.L.0.,
filled the chair at their first concert. Also Loudin went
around the crowded hall during the interval, selling the
beautiful story (bound in cloth) of the Fiske Jubilee
Singers, price 3s. Miss Mattie Allan was the central star
coquettish belle of the co., whilst handsome Mac, her
future husband, figured prominently among the young
men. And when smiling Mattie, with a bunch of roses
pinned to her stylish bodice, sang a delightful solo .you
could hear sad-faced women in the audience muttering,
“ Poor thing! born a slave 1 Uncle Tom’s Cabin!
Praise the Lord ! ”
Dear B.— Re “Poverty Point’’par. about Miss Nance
O’Neil’s reservation of “Hedda Gabler ” solely for the
Hospital-benefit matinee, would it not have been “ fair
dinkum” to have given the management credit for a
desire to secure one big house and assure a fat sum for
the charity? There are even in Melbourne sufficient
people interested in Ibsen to fill a house for one perform-
ance, whereas the theatre might run to emptiness in a
week. Surely The Bulletin, the enemy of stupid con-
ventions, might have had a good preliminary word for the
effort, quite apart from the charity claim, since it gave us
an opportunity for a taste of the dramatic quality of a
writer who, though airily dismissed as a perpetrator of
cranky plays by the sapient paragraphist, has made an
addition to European literature that has had a big influ-
ence on contemporary letters, and has won the profound
admiration of some of the brightest intellects of our time.
—Player.
Regina Nagel, whom The Bulletin has loved as an
adopted daughter ever since she sang “Ben Bolt” in
“ Trilby,” made her debCiton the London concert platform
t’other day, and the cable says she scored a success. Pro-
bably her next success will be a triumph. Miss Nagel
has been taken in hand by Melba, therefore for people
who know more about professional singing than meets
the ear, the debut of the new Australian contralto has
particular interest. Melba is not affectionately disposed
towards Ada Crossley, but Melba, the mighty, likes Nagel
and will use her influence to give Marchesi’s pupil a big
start. At present, Australia’s Ada Crossley ranks among
English-speaking contraltos next after Clara Butt. Butt
—6ft. high and with a voice in proportion—holds a very
strong position. Leaving the popular giantess out of the
question, it seems probable that Nagel will prove at least
equal to Crossley at all points. The latter is a true busi-
ness woman rather than a great artist, and she has done
her own advertising in a great measure, but if Nagel’s
beautiful voice “ comes off ” for all it is worth, Melba will
see that it gets the best kind of newspaper advt., and the
position of the singer will be assured.
Time flies. Clara Merivale, whom The Bulletin remem-
bers as a quite young and pretty prima-donna for the
Finn, had a daughter married in Melbourne the other
day to Mr. Bert Langford—lucky little Bert, of North
Mount Lyell. He was a clerk in Bowes Kelly’s office some
few years back and assisted in floating the Norths, for
which he accepted shares in the co. as his commission,
instead of “ the ready.” The mine turned out trumps,
and Bert rose to affluence. Also he achieved the notoriety
of being one of the executors appointed by the late Jim
Crotty to pay buxom widow Crotty £5OO a year if she
entered a nunnery.
“J.P.”: I want to know —Should an operatic tenor
spread the fingers of his caressing hand when hugging
plump and pleasing operatic actresses ? Should he not
hug with decorously closed fingers ?
Alfred Dampier announced in Sydney a “ reverential ”
production of “ The Merchant of Venice.” The uncon-
scious humorist is the humorist!
One of the several reasons for Harry Furniss’s failure as
a lecturer in Australia was his alleged imitation of an
Irish Member in the Commons. He forgot he wasn’t in
London, where there’s a big audience to laugh at the
stage-irishman. Of every big crowd in Australia Irish
people make a big portion. Harry’s third-rate mimicry
consequently fell flat. The Irish “number” is one in a
hundred atHome,” but here they’re “ plenty as black-
berries.” Furniss ought to have known this—or the
Much Travelled ought to have known it for him.
4
Croydon notes to July 7 :—Croydon mill yield
for June, 11,7040 z. from 5087 tons; cyanide operations,
2941£0z. from 2616 tons. Calls for June, £1012; divs.,
£2933. Crushings : Golden Gate and Nancy Lee United,
1026 tons, 15740 z., with a 6d. div. and £llOO carried for-
ward ; Rogers’ G. Gate, 699 tons, 8460 z.; Murray’s Banner
of Freedom, 168 tons, 3240 z. ; G. Gate 3 and 4 S., 1235
tons, 71600 z. Want of water still retarding crushing. G.
Gate 4 and 5 S. Block raising estimated 3oz. stone.
* * * *
Golden Gate 3 and 4 South, Croydon’s record
mine, paid during two years, ending 30th June, £51,418 in
divs. As showing the value of the property, the owners
of the mine received £3626 in royalty from tributors hold-
ing a portion of the mine during the past three months.
Tribute has about two month? to run, and has stone at
grass and in sight from which another £lO,OOO div. is ex-
pected.


Date.
Proilt..
Tran a-
terred
to
Special
Assets
Trust.
Dividend on
Preference Capital-
-
31st. Dec., 18d0
80th .June, 1607
Slat, Dee,, 181.1T
SOtli June, 1808
81st Dec., 1608
SOUi Juni'. 1600
31st Dec., 1SW)
SOth June, 1000
*41,03(1 £‘30.000
62,620 83,000
68,22:1 311,000
62,808 30,000
52,901 80,000
62,847 80.000
05,351 80,000
i.6,266 80,000
2 p.c. per an. £31,170
„ 21,171
" " &!*?
it fj 21,1/1
i» n
„ „ 0,171
S p.C. per mi. Sl./nG
, r M 816750
£428,414 £283,000
£100,537
Oroas
I'roQt.
WriUen
Oil l^IRMCH,
be., not
pro v i il e rl
lor at Bo-
const ruc-
tion.
Repaid
to
Govern-
ment.
1
Reserve
Fund.
IKJO-, lS'li
June, 1808
T>cr.. 1808
June, 181*9
Dec., 1999
June, 11KH>
£16,035
17.705
81,256
28,870
*7,:Gi
27,447
£8,636
8.705
12.255
13,870
15,341
15,447
£3000
2250
2250
2500
3000
8000
£4000
4500
4500
60(H)
6000
0000
£2000
2250
2250
2S00
3000
3000
£134,352
£71,352
£15,000
£30,000
£15,000
’WARE IMITATORS.
I GEORGE ELAKELAR, of Kalgoorlie, in
9 the colony of Western Australia, Cordial
Manufacturer, do hereby apologise for having
infringed the trade mark of the Zetz Spa Pro-
prietary, Limited, of Sydney, in the colony of
New South Wales, by selling a mineral water
bearing the name of “Zetz Spa” in labelled
bottles. I undertake not to continue selling water
labelled in any manner resembling the “ Zetz
Spa” trade mark. I have agreed to pay, and
have paid, the legal expenses incurred by the
Zetz Spa Proprietary, Limited, in connection
with the said infringement, and have authorised
the Manager of the Company to make use of this
apology as he may see fit.
Dated this sth day of July, 1900.
ZETZ-SPA Water
Has Many Imitators ; But No Equals.
Pcbaeectt
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
HAVY AHD WAR OEPIOI
Dbrx FD IN 42& 1 OZ AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cop Bros. & On.. ttfl.. Liverpool. Agents; i, Butty & Co., Syßney.
mn
“ THE FINEST •
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
* * * *
The representatives of British, foreign and
southern capital are chasing all over the country for gold,
gold and silver, copper, lode and alluvial tin, molybdenite,
manganese, and choice mines in all stages of development
such as Queensland and Tom Coventry, Telegraph Cham-
bers, Queen-st., Brisbane, can supply. The deduction is
obvious.*
* * * •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* * * ,
North Broken Hill Silver M. Co.,
No Liability, Broken Hill, Sept. 11th, 1899.
T. Horsfield, Esq., Bendigo,
Dear Sir,—l have the pleasure to inform you that your
agent, Mr. T. Bone, has had a trial of your Improved
Ingersoll and National Rock Drills in this mine, and I
deem the work done by the machine in the time they
were working, viz, about 5 hours, very satisfactory.
Yours truly,
(Signed) John Stephens,
General Manager.
* * * *
Commercial World, July Ist, 1899, writes of
the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society : “To simul-
taneously increase the business and reduce the ratio of
expenditure is therefore always regarded as a sure indica-
tion of capable and most efficient management.”*
The carelessness of certain steam-users in not
looking after their boilers and the results of neglecting to
clean them regularly when incrustation takes place has
often been pointed out in Tiie Bulletin. A disencrustat-
ing boiler compound known as “ Litofuge,” with a world-
wide reputation, is being placed upon the market by W.
and J. Lempriere, 506 Little Collins-st., Melbourne, who
upon application will be pleased to forward catalogues to
those interested. “Litofuge” compounds are powders
without soda, fatty matter or injurious chemicals, which
injure rather than improve boilers. Its action is mechani-
cal and its introduction into a boiler causes no foaming.*
* » * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and .Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c. *
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
» * * *
Croydon tinfield is attracting the attention of
capitalists. Mr. John Moffat, of Herberton, was expected
there when the mail left. Rumored also that a couple of
local investors were buying up, in order to place a large
offer on Melb. market.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36 38%
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE QVU
Hy. Markwald,
17S William-street,
Mki,bournb ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-at.. , Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NX. ;
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Commercial Banking Co., of Sydney, in
view of increased earnings for the half-year to 30th June,
1900, raises its dividend another point. Results for the
recent half-year and some previous ones are :
Profit. Dividend. v
December, 1894 .. £36,599 8 per cent. £36,498
June, 1895.. .. 38,037 „ 37,984
December, 1895 .. 39,474 „ 39,227
June, 1896 .. .. 40,303 „ 39,966
December, 1896 .. 40,067 ~ 40,000
June, 1897 .. .. 40.119 „ 40,000
December, 1897 .. 40,150 „ 40,000
June, 1898.. .. 40,410 „ 40,000
December, 1898 .. 40,864 ~ 40,000
June, 1899 .. .. 42,339 „ 40,000
December, 1899 .. 45,251 9 per cent. 45,000
June, 1900 .. .. 50,880 10 per cent. 50,000
£494,493 £488,676
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney was a 25-per-
cent.-dividend-paying institution for 17 years previous to
the disastrous ’93. It is gradually climbing back towards
that old gorgeous situation, though whether there will
ever be 25 per cent, banking dividends in Australia again
only a prophet could tell. The earnings are equal to £5
Is. 3d. per cent, per annum on the shareholders’ funds
(capital, £1,000,000 ; reserve fund, £1,010,000).
In addition there is an undivided profit balance
of £20,152 ; the institution has paid away its
earnings so accurately in dividends that in six years it
has added exactly £5BlB to its accumulations out of pro-
fit. The Commercial Banking Co. grows larger each half-
year. It has now over £11,000,000 of deposits, and cash
and liquid securities amount to £5,197,820—equal to over
40 per cent, of all liabilities to the public. Of Government
securities alone it holds nearly £1,660,000 worth. Alto-
gether it may fairly claim to be, next to the 8.N.5.W.,
the boss financial institution of Australia, and in some
respects it even gets ahead of its big competitor.
* * * »
The City Bank of Sydney presents its usual
monotonous report for the half-year to 30th June, 1900 :
Dividend Added
Profit. at to
4 per cent. Funds.
June, 1896.. .. £B,lOB £B,OOO £lOB
December, 1896 .. 8,071 8,000 71
June, 1897 .. .. 8,048 8,000 48
December, 1897 .. 8,395 8,000 395
June, 1898 .. .. 8,273 8,000 273
December, 1898 .. 8,053 8,000 53
June,1899.. .. 8,069 8,000 69
December, 1899 .. 8,212 8,000 212
June, 1900 .. .. 8,042 8,000 42
£73,271 £72,000 £1271
The profits are equivalent to £3 4s. 3d. per cent, per
annum on the shareholders’ capital and reserve-fund.
According to the figures it is the worst half-year
that the City Bank has had for apparently 20 years
and probably somewhat longer —the figures which
the writer has by him at the moment only go back
20 years. But the drop in profits doesn’t necessarily
mean anything—at least anything more than usual. Some
time ago it was admitted that the City Bank was secretly
applying part of its earnings (amount unknown) to writ-
ing off an unspecified sum in the way of depreciation, and
the inference is that it is>still doing this. This admission
was equivalent to a statement that the balance-sheet did
not accurately represent the bank’s condition, but people
are used to that kind of thing in Australia, ahd take it in
a meek and humble spirit. The alleged and real assets
apparently differed by the amount which, in the board’s
opinion, had to be written down for depreciation—what-
ever that amount was. The shareholders funds were not
real intact funds, but minus an amount unspecified. The
profits as shown were not real profits, but only the
amount which the management thought fit to show after
setting aside some other amount, unspecified, to reduce
the depreciation or losses, also unspecified. As the
amount which the directors reckoned it necessary to pro-
vide is a mystery and the amount being provided is
another, the shareholders are not informed when the pro-
cess is likely to be completed. And up to now they have
taken this great lack of information about their own
affairs quite calmly. Most Australian shareholders do.
As compared with six months ago the City
Bank’s note circulation has increased by £579. Deposits
have diminished by rather over £<49,000. Cash in hand
has decreased by i. 9921, but still stands at £319,342, and,
reckoning also £25,000 of N.S.W. State securities, the
City Bank’s cash and liquid assets are equal to the very
solid figure of 3l£ per cent, on all liabilities to the public.
But though its shares have improved in price during the
half-year they are still valued by the market, in propor-
tion to the dividend paid, lower than those of any other
N.S.W. or Vic. dividend-paying bank. Last Saturday the
new issue were obtainable at prices which gave a return
of about £7 7s. per cent, on their cost. The public, so far
as can be guagedby these figures, takes a rather depressed
view of its Oitv Bank, and it seems questionable if an
absolutely frank statement of the position might not pay
better. Also what are balance-sheets for except to state
the position with absolute frankness !
The great improvement shown by the Commer-
cial Bank of Australia last half-year has not been main-
tained, the profits for the six months to 30th June, 1900,
being only £58,265. The doings of this bank since the last
reconstruction and since the establishment of the Special
Assets Trust Co. have been as follows :
The profits are equal to £3 12s. 9d. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders’ funds (capital, £3,202,323 ; reserve
fund, nil). Or, if it is assumed that the £30,000 trans-
ferred to the Special Assets Trust is required to make
good the deficiency ©n the Trust’s operations for the half-
year, then the profits are £28,265, equal to only a miser-
able £1 15s. 4d. per cent, per annum on shareholders’
funds. The management ascribes the fall in profits to
“ the reduction in the volume of export-business in the
first half of the year,” which is, perhaps, feasible enough.
At all events, the Commercial Bank of Australia is now
bound by the terms of its reconstruction to pay 3 per
cent, to preference-shareholders ; it seems also to find it
necessary or advisable to aid the Assets Trust with £30,000
each half-year ; and the last half-year’s earnings don t
quite cover these two items. There is a decline 1
deposits, but not a serious one the re c °nstrixctecl
posits of the Commercial Bank itself (as disti g _
from those of the Assets Trust) are now down to £965,4^,
there is a solid reserve of cash and liquid securities
amounting to £1,713,096 ; and, in a • ’
bank itself (as apart from the Assets Trust) looks reason
ably prosperous.
About the Assets Trust there is, as usual, prac-
tically no information. This Trust is as much a part or
the bank as the bank itself. Its deficiency,
one, must be made up by the bank, and if it P a very
large one it may even wipe out all the ordinary P •
If it is worse than a very large one it may, mpe out part
of the preference capital as well. If the income from
assets is £30,000 less for the half-year than the outgo in
expenses and interest on the Trust deposits, then
profits of the whole bank are only lf itsi mcome
is £40,000 less than outgoings, then the net profit ot tne
bank is only £18,265. In either of these two latter cases
the bank wouldn’t earn the amount it pays away in prefer-
ence dividend, and a big trouble is accumulating lor tne
shareholders and things are getting much worse.
Assets Trust pays its way or has a half-yearly deficit wfiicn
is less than the £30,000 contributed by the bank, tnen
part of this £30,000 is evidently available to write down
the assets and things are getting better. The directors
flatly refuse to tell the shareholders how one-third ot their
property, and that the part of the property about which
there is most doubt, is getting along. When they are
asked to state what are the income from the property,
and the outgoings, and the loss or profit, they generally
reply that they can’t give the value of the property—
which is just as relevant to the income question as if
they said they hadn’t got the plague. They give no
reason for the refusal of information —the statement that
they think it best to refuse isn’t a reason. Whether they
are saving up a great, beautiful glad surprise for the
shareholders in the shape of a big surplus which will re-
store a whole lot of the lost capital, or whether they are
waiting in hope that a merciful Providence may call them
hence before the dreadful shock is made public, the pub-
lished accounts give no indication. The Commercial
Bank of Australia’s Assets Trust is a co. with between
three and four millions of liabilities. It. is by itself a
bigger concern than either the Bank of Adelaide, Bank
of North Queensland, City Bank of Sydney, Colonial
Bank, Commercial of Tasmania, National of Maonland,
the two Royal Banks, or the Westralian Bank. And this
huge concern doesn’t even publish a full statement of
revenue and expenditure. Yet the whole question of
whether the ordinary shares of the Commercial Bank are
worth a lot of money, and have good dividends in view at
an early date, or are worth nothing, or less than nothing,
hangs on this problem. The value of the preference
shares largely hangs on to it also.
The board, however, condescends to tell each
half-year how much remain of the deposits for which the
Trust is liable. It is gathered from the published reports
that they have heen paid off at this rate :
i-vear to June, 1897, £27,907 £-year to June, 1899, £26,525
„ „ Dec., 1897, £41,949 „ „ Dec. 1899, £20,682
„ June, 1898, £45,474 ~ „ June, 1900, £12,715
„ „ Dec., 1898, £56,591
It appears, therefore, that out of a liability of £3,642,001
to its depositors the Assets Trust has only man-
aged to wipe off £231,843 in 3£ years, leaving
£3,410,158 still owing. This is pitiably slow progress.
And this is despite assistance from the bank to the extent
of £233,000. Up to December, 1897, the bank’s balance-
sheet showed that the Trust had money on deposit in the
bank—which might possibly be surplus earnings—but no
such entry has appeared since. The amount of deposits
paid-off each half-year is growing exceedingly small—
possibly because the Trust’s assets are'so bad that they
won’t sell, or possibly because they are so good that it is
worth holding them for a better market. In fact, the
Commercial Bank’s Assets Trust is one of the financial
mysteries of the age, and by reason of it the Commercial
Bank is a mystery also. Why the shareholders endure
this flat refusal on the part of their paid servants, the
directors, to tell them aboift the state of their own pro-
perty' passes comprehension. And what is the good of the
new Victorian banking law, which prescribes so rigidly
how banking accounts are to be presented, if a bank can
transfer a tenth or a quarter or a third or a half or three-
quarters of its business to a separate account, and give no
useful details at all about that ? Is the Commercial Bank s
method legal under the Victorian Act.?
The prosperous-looking Bank of Victoria, hav-
ino- n ow paid off all its reconstructed deposits, and having
just closed the most profitable half-year since 1894, has
resumed paying dividends to its ordinary shareholders.
The Victoria lost none of its capital in the struggles of
’93, but its reserves (£259,380) all disappeared, and it
started afresh. The following is a summary of its career
in the bad times that followed :
Profits. Dividends.
December,lB93 .. £31,655 {\
June, 1894 .. 29,921 jj ” 17,921
December, 1894 .. 21,087 ” ” 10J24
June, 1895 .. 19,863 5 |, (pref.) .. 10,419
December, 1895 .. 20,632 5 ~(,.)■•
June, 1896 .. 15,068 5 „(„).. 10,419
December, 1896 .. 17,928 6 ~(,.)•• J 0.419
June, 1897 .. 17,878 5 „(„)•• 10,419
December, 1397 .. 22,729 6 „(,,)•• 10’419
June, 1898 .. 24,380 5 „(„)■• 10,419
December, 1898 .. 27,801 5 »(>.)•• 10.419
June, 1899 .. 27,637 6 ~(„)-. W. 419
December, 1899 .. 27,906 5 »(>.)•• 10>419
June,l9oo* .. 28,554 | ” ( or d.) " 13’,266
£333,039 £203,434
* * • *
The Bank of Victoria’s profits are at the rate of
£3 12s sd. per cent, per annum on the shareholders’
capital and reserve fund. It has accumulated a new
reserve of £lOO,OOO, and the undivided profit balance of
£29 605 makes total reserves of £129,605. As already
mentioned, the reserves which disappeared in the great
financial convulsion were £259,380 ; so considering the
progress that has been made towards rebuilding the
reserve fund, and the fact that no capital was lost and
that the Bank of Victoria paid the fuIP4J per cent, on its
reconstructed deposits all through, it came out of the
trouble better than any of the other reconstructs, the
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney alone excepted In
fact the reconstruction, though a loss to the old share-
holders in the way of dividends, was a handsome profit to
the depositors. They got 4>- per cent, on most of their
deposits for six years, during greater part of which
time money was only worth about 3£. The rest of their
deposits were turned into preference shares, which yielded
them 5 per cent, when money was only worth 3 J( and
which promise to keep on yielding 5 per cent, indefinitely.
This isn’t pleasant for the old shareholders to think of,
but it is too late to do anything save throw a, brick at
the forgotten J. B. Patterson Government, which might
have averted the trouble if it. had possessed the neces-
sary intelligence. At all events, things look well with the
Bank of Victoria for the present ; and if the directors set
themselves resolutely to build up a new reserve-fund of a
million or so, instead of the very inadequate i-million
which satisfied them in the old days when 12 per cent,
dividends were of more account than solidity, it should
have a great future before it. f
Westralian market.—The usual result: no busi-
ness in Sydney and next to none in Adelaide, all on
account of London market. Saturday was a holiday ln
London, and the Stock Exchange has to wait to know
what London was doing on Monday. Great Boulders,
£1 i2s fid. The best-developed mine in the field and
within a month of starting its big sulphide plant. Re-
cently developed a large quantity of oxidised oie,
hitherto unknown. A general all-round improvement
in the mine, but the market has not budged
sixpence. Lake View Consols on the fringe of
£l4, or nearly three millions a higher valuation
than the Gt. Boulder, though it is well known
that the ore at the 600 is poor in many places, and at the
700 it is worse. Ivanhoes, £ll. Again stated that this
month’s output will be equal to that of last, by reason of
the gold that will be got from cyanide solutions, scrap-
ings, and a general clean-up of the cyanide plant.
Rumoured, too, that some of last month’s gold came from
cleaning the plates of the 60-head mill; now it will pro-
bably be impossible to keep up the output beyond this
month, and it might reasonably be expected to be
not more than 6000 oz. next ; writer would not be
surprised to see it not more than / OOOoz. this
month. The shares are undoubtedly too high. Ivanhoe
South Extended, £2 10s. This is a joke ; they would be
dear at 10s. Perseverance, £ll 10s. They are a good
10 per cent, investment on £l2 a share. Golden Links,
£2 125., representing a market valuation of nearly three-
quarters of a million. Rumored that it has struck some
good ore between the 900 and 1000 ft. levels. Asso-
ciateds, 70s. Only a million-and-three-quarters for amine
that is losing thousands of pounds per month, and the plant
of which will shortly shut down to give time to find some
ore. Shares would probably be down to £1 but for the cart-
loads oversold. It is now a gambling fight between
“ bull ” and “ bear,” and the “ bears” must win unless a
marvellous improvement takes place in the mine. Ghat-
fers, 12s. 6d.—would be dear at 2s. 6d.
Chaffers is on the Horseshoe line, and is looking
for Horseshoe lodes, and the public are quite unmindful
of the fact that, for the best of reasons (that they aren t
worth working further), the Horseshoe ceases to work
its lodes fullv 300 ft. before they reach Chaffers boun-
dary. South'Kalgurlis, 975. A fair price if the plant was
double its present size, but that will take six months, and
cost much to accomplish. Northern Associated Bloc ks,
425. 6d. Three months ago, on a development not halt as
good as that which they have made within the last month,
shares went within a shade of 50s. Now that they are
bagging ore running from 10 to 30oz. a ton,
proved at 270 ft. in one Shaft, and 400 ft. in
another more than 100yds. away, shares have fallen.
Why I Brownhills, £8 12s. There is nothing to prevent
the Brownhill crowd sending them to £l2 Bs. if they like
to waste a lot of money in so doing, and they have wasted
much in buj'ine blocks not worth a tenth the amount
paid for them—True Blue lease to wit. A few weeks ago
the “ backwardation ” charged on Brownhill shares was as
hiu-h as 3s. per share, which means that some beam
had to pay these rates to carry-over every fortnight.
This was kept up for a few settlements and had to stop.
It gave the whole show away.
# * * *
The Queensland National Bank completed, on
30th June, 1900, its sixth half-year since the last recon-
struction, when there was a partial wiping-off of old
losses, and the State took the shattered institution in
hand. Results so far are as follows :
The nominal net profit of £12,000 is equal to £5 13s. per
cent, per annum on the shareholders’ funds (capital,
£412 773, and reserve fund, £12,000). But everything is
so vague and uncertain about the Q.N.B. that the
matter is hardly worth calculating.
* * * *
In view of the fact that the Queensland National
Bank is doing at least a little in the way of paying off its
accumulation of old losses, it would be a fair thing it it
issued a supplementary balance-sheet (or put its ordinary
balance-sheet in a very different form), showing
the estimated deficit still remaining each half-year.
Then the shareholders could at least have the
satisfaction of knowing exactly where they are and
how fast the shortage is being reduced. The debts
against which the bank has no assets, apart from its
capital(£4l2,773) and reserve-fund (now raised to £15,000),
are understood to be these: £427,581 owing to the
Queensland Government ; an unknown sum, probably
rather over £1,000,000, still owing to private depositors
and these other losses (amount unknown) against which
the bank has already written off £74,352 of its profits
in three years, leaving a balance (amount unknown)
still to be provided for. A curious-looking “asset
in the balance-sheet reads, “Private ledger accounts,
debts in suspense, pending realisation of securities,
£662 100*” and it is presumably towards the losses
on this account that the £74,352 mentioned above
has been applied. If the losses on this account go as high
as £400,000, then it would appear, at a rough guess, that
the Queensland National Bank has £1,800,000 of deficiency
to make good out of earnings before it gets properly on its
feet again. And last half-year it earned 12/,447. At this
rate the process of recovery will apparently take 33 years,
and it will be about that time before the shareholders can
expect any dividends, unless a rise in the value of
property and an increase in banking profits accelerates
the recovery. Even then everything depends on the Bank
not going on the boom drunk again before the effects of the
last boom are cleared off. At the same time things may be
a little less awful than they look, and on the principle that
the shareholders should know fully how their property
stands, and that it can’t stand worse than many of them
suspect, and that the policy of hush-it-up is a bad policy
at all times, The Bulletin reckons that the Queensland
National Bank’s balance-sheet should be drawn up very
differently. It should show, in the first place, the full
liability to private depositors, including the £1,000,000 or
so which is repayable out of profits, and which, though it
remains a liability, is altogether dropped out of the
liabilities as shown by the bank’s statement. The £427,581
which is repayable to the Government out of profits is
included as a liability, though it is admitted that there
are no real assets against it, and the similar debt to
private depositors should be included likewise. Then all
the assets should be put in as near their real value as
can be estimated, and . the balance should he put
down as plain, honest, unvarnished shortage of £1,000,000
or £1,400,000 or £1,800,000 or whatever it may be. The
present Q.N.B. balance-sheet doesn’t convey, to a
person unacquainted with the complicated circumstances,
the slightest semblance of a true story of the bank’s
position. Read by itself it creates an impression that
things are between one and two millions better than they
are. It creates an impression that the capital and reserve
fund—£424,ooo odd—are intact, whereas they would
probably only about one-quarter cover the deficits. In
fact the balance-sheet, by itself, represents the Queensland
National Bank as solvent, whereas it is utterly and in-
credibly insolvent, and has merely made an arrangement
whereby its creditors give it time to earn the money to
pay off its deficiency. „ „ *
The Q. N. Bank has a small but increasing new business,
and a reserve of cash and liquid securities (£1,771,551)
which is equal to about 85 per cent of all the now current
liabilities, and as all new business takes precedence of the
reconstructed deposits, it is as safe for the new depositor
as any other bank. But its balance-sheet is a hideous
farce' all the same—the sort of farce which would be
unlawful if there was a decent Banking Act and it was
decently * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. (Mel-
bourne) shows another very remarkable improvement,
the half-year’s earnings to 30th June. 1900, being £3971,
out of which the 6 per cent, dividend absorbs £2250. The
co.’s recent record :
d Dividend on £60,000
Profifc - Capital.
June, 1892 .. .. £8548 30 per cent. = £9OOO
December, 1892 .. 6874 22$ „ = 6750
June, 1893.. .. 4656 15 „ = 4500
December, 1893 .. 3909 12$ „ = 8750
June, 1894.. .. 2287 7$ „ = 2250
December, 1894 .. 2265 7$ „ = 2250
June, 1895.. .. 305 Nil.
December, 1895 .. 256 Nil.
June, 1896.. .. 1702 4 per cent. = 1200
December, 1896 .. 1779 5 ~ = 1500
June, 1897.. .. 1756 5 1500
December, 1897 .. 1705 5 „ = 1500
June, 1898.. .. 1723 5 „ 1500
December, 1898 .. 1101 6 ~ = 1500
June, 1899.. .. 1953 5 „ 1500
Dividend on £90,000
Capital.
December, 1899 .. 2693 5 per cent. = 2250
June, 1900.. .. 3971 5 „ = 2250
A balance of £3696 was brought forward from last half-
year, and the surplus of £1721, which remains after pay-
ing the dividend, added to this leaves £5417 undivided
profit. The management creates a further paper asset of
£l4OO by writing up the nominal value of 2800 £5 prefer-
ence shares of the Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank
(previously written down from £5 to 10s. per share) from
10s. to £1 per share. This makes £6817 available. Out
of this, £5OOO is set aside as the beginning of a new re-
serve-fund (the former reserve of £llO,OOO having dis-
appeared during our old friend, the Depression) and
£lBl7 carried forward.
• * *
Despite the very great improvement in business
it would have been much more solid finance if the
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. had not written-up
any of its assets just yet, and had transferred £5OOO to
reserve wholly out of profit, and been content to carry
'£4l7 forward. As things are now, its holding of Austra-
lian Deposit and Mortgage Bank securities stands in the
balance-sheet thus :
£16,000 of deposits, valued at 20/- in tne £ .. £16,000
2800 preference shares of £5 each, at £1 .. 2,800
£lB,BOO
Whereas market values are about these; —
£16,000 of deposits at 16/6 in the £ .. .. £13,200
2800 preference £5 shares at 31/6 .. • • 4,410
£17,610
Taking the two items together, they were under-valued
very slightly before the writing-up, and by putting
£l4OO on to their paper value, merely to make
the balance carried forward look larger than it
need be, they are now over-valued by £ll9O.
It is highly probable that the A. D. and M. deposits will
be worth 20s. in the £ some day, but it isn’t sound finance
to put in the balance-sheet as a present asset mere
probable future values. The present value is the matter
at issue. Still the Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
pppears to be over the worst of its troubles. Its income
is steadily increasing. Its investments (including £lB,OOO
in State securities) yield at the rate of £4 7s. 3d. per
cent, per annum, which seems to suggest that the mort-
gage part of them is reasonably sound. These two items
of expense, “ difference in amount paid and received on
lease, 37 Queen-street,” and “ difference in amount paid
in connection with mortgage on premises and received on
investment of £21,400 held against mortgage,” are
diminishing. And a small beginning—a very small one,
certainty—has been made at rebuilding the fine reserve
fund of £llO,OOO which evaporated so completely m the
bad days.


OVERCOATS FOR THE WINTER SEASON
PALMERSTON OVERCOATS—
-42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
W. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Vicuna, Satin Facings and Fore-parts,
03s
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
Single-Breasted.
BLUE AND FAWN BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
BLUE AND FAWN MELTON CLOTH,
52s 6d
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d,
42s
CLERICAL BLACK WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in TWEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s<3d
I).B, BLUE NAP, 50s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS,
with DEEP CAPE,
Fan j eoteh Tweeds, 30s, 355, 50s, 65s
New
Smart
Shapes
PADDOCK COATS—
-66 to 58 inches in Length.
FAWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 68a 6d, 65s
FAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVERT
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 51 to 66 inches in
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d.
COVERT COATS-
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 6d
Fawn Beaver, 45s
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES—
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth Facings, 40s
Black.Vicuna, with Satin Facings, 47s 6d, 63s
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
Orient Clothiers, George & Barrack Streets, SYDNEY.
THE ORIGINAL
JOHN JAMESON WHISKEY
ESTABLISHED 1780.
Trade Mark.
John Jameson & Son are not Blenders of Whiskey, but Distillers of one
quality of spirit, viz., the finest old still whiskey that can be produced
—the only difference between the grades being that of AGE.
In order that customers may feel assured of genuineness, attention is
requested to our Special Export Label, and to our Name and Trade Mark
on Corks, Capsules, and Cover ; also to Age Mark.
Agents—J. BARRE JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney.
Society
The N.S.W. Governor’s salary will be re-
duced to, probably, £5OOO. Little will be gained
if Parliament doesn’t insist on cutting off inciden-
tals. Gov. Beauchamp on small heads draws
about £2OOO more than his nominal pay.
Victoria gives £7OOO, but allows no extras.
Queensland gives £5OOO, but allows £5OO for
visiting through the province, £5OO for uni-
forms, and other items. S. (Australia and W.
Australia give £4OOO each and allow no extras, and
Tasmania gives £3500. In Gov. Hampden’s day
Premier Reid thunderously assured the Laborists
that he was about to make a Democratic example
of that pensive potentate, but after all-night
clamor, he ran thiough a little Bill that left the
Governor financially just about where he was.
N.S.W. Gov. has his town house, his country
house, his £7OOO, his paid secretary, paid assistant-
secretary, paid orderlies and other paid appurten-
ances.
* * * »
Casual readers of the Melbourne papers
would imagine that the people of Victoria were
just frantic with joy over the appointment of Lord
Hopetoun to the Governor-Generalship. As a
matter of fact the populace takes no frenzied
interest in the slim weakling in question, who
during his regime was known to the vulgar vari-
ously as Little Lord Fauntleroy, Lord Hopeless, or
Lord Helpus. Butthelank, friendly-mannered lord-
ling did very well in the social sense after his few
pathetic fainting-fits, and made a point of being
awfully naice to half-pint swells and the aristocracy
of the counter. This affability to the “social”
paragraphist accounts for much of the newspaper
gush his appointment has inspired. He actually
took one or two tame scribblers away with him,
when he desolated Melbourne by ceasing to repre-
sent England’s greatness there.
When the Chinese in 1870 attacked the
French Convent at Tien-Tsin, some of the nuns
they impaled, some they cut in half, out of one
they tore the eyes and heart, while still alive,
another they scalded to death, and all they hor-
ribly and shamefullv mutilated.
* * * *
The recent Chinese slaughtering should
cool the missionary ardour a bit; and, even if
there shall still be found amongst us foolish
enough men and virgins who would bid for “ mar-
tyrdom’s ” crown upon the same horrible terms, it
will probably be long era- they get the chance of
doing what, after all, would in that case be in-
tended as. an ultimate benefit to themselves, by
procuring them immortal felicity at the
expense of the Chinaman’s soul. Yet, fail-
ing either the absolute partition or the ab-
solute abandonment of China by Europeans,
nothing is more certain than at intervals will be
repeated such diabolisms as, for instance (during
the ’7O Tien-Tsin massacre), the literal roasting-
alive of European women and children by holding
them by arms and legs upon the fires ! It is said
that the miserable husbands and fathers of the
lately-stormed Pekin Legations made certainty
that their wives and little ones—whom they shot!
—should not fall into the hands of such
fiends unspeakable. So hideous, upon the whole,
have now become the Chinese possibilities to
European women that The Bulletin would
almost excuse the man who—having sister or
daughter bent upon daring the chances of the
China mission-career—should shoot her himself in
the first place. He would then, at all events,
know the worst!
Queensland London Missionary Society-presi-
dent Jones gets-back on one Schmellitscheck for
asserting that “ the missionaries are at the bottom
of all the Chinese trouble”—by explaining that
the way the missionaries led to the present state
of things was by pioneering the country and thus
opening it up to the devils of trade and greed. It
is humorous, by the way, to find one lot of mis-
sionaries absolutely denying that the missionary-
business has had anything to do with the present
ferocious Chinese outbreak, while another lot avers
that it is the Roman Catholics, not the Protestant
missionaries, who are to blame. Of course, if you
asked the R.C.’s, you would get a dolorous story
about the wickedness of the Protestants in foment-
ing discord. ,
* • • *
With quite unconscious humor the Chinese
Reform residents of Sydney have decided to
forego a “ big celebration ” in honor of their
Emperor’s birthday. They will dissemble their
loyalty and “pride of race” until the present
Little Unpleasantness has blown over.
ANTISEPTICISM AS IT'S SPOKE.
TOMMY: “ Wot yer ’and tied up fer?”
BILLY: “ Muvver ses I'll ’av ter keep the
dirt outer it or multerpercashun ’ll
set in.”
THEY'RE GENERALLY THE SAME.
MRS M'DIBTY: “ Whereabouts will I foind the account of Hogan’s divorce-case, Phelan? ”
PHELAN: “ Whoy, in the ‘Answers to Co-respondints ’ colum', av coorse.”
Six years ago there was but one Chinese-
laundry in Sydney. Now there are 20, and they
are growing at the rate of 10 a year. The des-
cription given by officials of the filthy dens in
which clothes are washed and made up should
nerve the Health Department, or some other
authority, to start a rooting-out crusade.
* • • *
Some confusion has been caused by the
publication of news from China, owing to the fact
that the Russian or old style of calendar is appar-
ently used in dating some of the messages from
the East. The Gregorian or “new” style of
reckoning, as adopted by Western civilisation, is
now 14 days ahead of the Julian, or old style. The
difference in the two calendars is that the Gre-
gorian one does not reckon century-years indi-
visible by 400 (as 1700, 1800, 1900) as leap-years.
On March 1, 1900, another day was jumped by the
new style. This explains the seemingly irrecon-
cilable statements as to dates which have appeared
in the cables re the Pekin Legations and other
incidents of the China crisis.
* * • •
“J.A.C.”: Noteworthy that no Sydney
Jews caught the plague. Also in all the great
pestilences of Europe and Asia the Jews have
escaped comparatively ,easy. During the ’49
cholera only 13 Jews died of the epidemic out of
the 20,000 in London, although the total cholera
deaths numbered 12,837.
* * • •
The common cabbage Chow seems to look
upon his country’s present predicament as a huge
joke. When told of a recent massacre of Celes-
tials, Ah Hop remarked, “ Too muchee fence in
China. You see, my countlyman lun away, an’
get shot climbin’ over fence.”
“Brahmin” to The Bulletin on the
results of mission-work in the East:
Asa boy in India I remember white men standing under
trees, with hats off, and black Catechists at the side,
preaching. The Missioner would speak m English and
the Catechist in the vernacular, but what was said in
English—quite untranslatable into the vernacular—would
return home, feed on the best, and report “souls saved.”
All “ Christian ” Societies want is a good average ol con-
verts. Then the money rolls in. Indian famines bring
much increase in the convert-crop. Starving Hindus go
from Mission House to Mission House and when one
mission cannot supply food, there is a stampede to the
nearest one that can. Wesleyan Hindus embrace the
tenets of the Church of England—and their loaves and
fishes ; and Baptist converts who run short of supplies, go
for the London Missionary Society; and so on till they
have exhausted every source of supply for their stomachs
on their heavenly road. And of such is the Kingdom of
Heaven 1
• * • • •
Ttea.ii hi fill advt readme* exaetlv like a
peaUDIIUI aavc., reading exactly line a
hair-restorer testimonial or an affidavit that the
writer’s baby had been abnormally bloated out by
the use of Buster’s Food, cut from Dunedin
(M.L.) Star :
T\7’E, the Members of the Hanover-street Baptist
CHINESE CLASS, very glad for TEACHERS
to tell us about the Love of Jesus—that He die for
White Man, Black Man, and Chinaman as well.
Teachers very kind to us, and Rev. Mr. North and
other Christian Friends love us very much. We all
very glad ; we all very thankful.—Names of Class :
D. Chin Goon, D. Yat Lee, J. Chin Shing, S. A. Foo,
G. Lem Foon, W. Yip Chong, Soo Yip, T. Wah Cheng,
Ohui Kum, Chui Tse, Gea Wae, Yip Kum, Yeung
Oheum, Yenng Young, Wong Yat, Joe Bun, Yeung
Shung, Yeung Ho, Kum Foo, Ah Shing, Ching Fon,
Ching One, C. How.
Indirectly, of course, this draws attention to the
fact that the three Yips, and the two Foos, and
the two Yats, and the two Chings, and the two
Shings, also Chong, Cheng, Chin, Chen and Cheum
are good Chows who should be Encouraged.
* * * *
What we call “the Devil’s number”
appears also to have an ill reputation in China.
The fact, that the current Chinese year has 13
months is considered ominous of some great
national calamity near at hand.
* • • .
“ Ston.” : Was t’other day talking to a
Sydney back-street resident who assured me that
he had not been out of the house for 27 years ! and
who knew nothing of what was
happening outside until
the Plague came along.
Then he was roused
out —the house being
in a quarantined
area.
A FIRST IMPRESSI N.
THE MASTER: “ Well, Bridget, do you think that
new gas-cooking apparatus will he cheaper
than wood and coal? ”
THE MAID: “Cheaper! Shure, I should say so.
Why, we’ve had it over tree weeks, and I’ve
only used wan match.”
In view of the slump in the missionary
industry which will probably follow the recent
hideous Chinese slaughterings, the views of Malie-
toa, of Samoa, are interesting. He said, not long
ago:—
The missionaries who graced our country with their
holy—or unholy—presence introduced the same religious
differences and hatreds against each other as obtain at this
hour in civilised States. The missionaries live in palatial
concrete houses, with all the luxuries their country can
afford, and charge us for Bibles and prayer-books, which,
we understand, are sent as free offerings.
A WAR CHANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ching-chong Chineeman, bloomin’ how-de-do,
Slaughter allee foleigner, missionalee, too ;
Mad go, sad go, Eulopeans cuss,
Ching-chong Chineeman, can’t hurt us.
Ching-chong Chineeman, tellible assault,
Blamee Olistianitee, Bible-pleachers’ fault;
Lord’s sake, sword’s sake, workee Heaven’s will,
Ching-chong Chineeman, kill, kill, kill.
Ching-chong Chineeman, Debbil likee fun,
Bound to lastee longtime, now it am begun ;
John Bull, hands full, fill ’em rather more,
Ching-chong Chineeman, gore, gore, gore.
Ching-chong Chineeman, how will tlouble end?
Welly wealthy John Bull, lots of money lend ;
Ships in, chips in, plofit by the smash,
Ching-chong Chineeman, cash, cash, cash.


SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
i'OU ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVIS-B, BROS. Ltd., Sydney
hats. HATS- hats.
fcftountoastle & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes titted with this
valuable invention.
Write fur
£dlaloju& to
Ba Mauntsastto & Sons,
Queen Stjuskt, BRISBANE.
D?MACKENZIE’S
pRSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society.
S. Harvey, Ltd.,
London, S.K.
Ch
nm
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
.
Premier Holder thinks it “somewhat
unfortunate that New Year’s Day, which is
always kept as a public holiday, should be
observed as commemoration day for the Common-
wealth. Commonwealth Day was worthy of a
special holiday.” Patriotism takes all shapes and
sizes. Because the best day in every year, which
next year will be the opening day of a new
century, is already one of the appointed occasions
for bank-closing, Mr. Holder considers it an
unsuitable date for the birthday of a new nation.
What an unsentimental and bank-clerical person
is Premier Holder 1
• • • •
Capt. Wallington had, it transpires,
already booked his passage for England when the
news of his appointment as Gov-Gen. Hopetoun’s
Private Sec. arrived. Wallington, by the way,
has served under five Australian Governors,
Carrington, Duff, Hopetoun, Brassey and Tenny-
son, and lie was Private Sec. to Des Vceux of Fiji
20 years ago.
* * * •
Tasmania already begins to regret one
feature of its recent Jingo enthusiasm. Of the
£lO,OOO Patriotic Fund which the island collected,
£5OOO was sent to England and the other £5OOO is
going there, all by way of showing Tasmania’s
unbounded faith that Britain will look after the
widow and the wooden-legged Tas. soldier, and see
that they didn’t want. There are already some
war-widows to look after, but the Imperial Pat-
riotic Fund, which swallowed up Tasmania’s
mite, is hanging on to the mite. The London
Daily Mail fund also received contributions from
Tasmania, and it has sent enough back to keep
two distressed war-sufferers going. But the big
Fund maintains a death-like silence. Probably it
thought that the Tas. contribution was intended
for British soldiers. The idea of paying the cost
of sending the money to England, merely to
incur the further expense of sending it back to
Tasmania, certainly looked rather ridiculous, and
the British people may be excused if they didn’t
quite understand.
* * * •
Sydney citizens elected their Mayor at
one period. Octogenarian George Thornton, still
alive, was so chosen. That old municipal system
was wound up and Govt. Commissioners took in
hand civic affairs. When the municipal system
was again inaugurated Mr. Thornton was elected
first Mayor by the aldermen. Thus, the veteran
is likely to see four great revolutions in the muni-
cipal life of his native city. Mr. Thornton thinks
the earliest the best system and the Govt.-Commis-
sioners’ era the worst.
* * * *
An aboriginal (S. Q’land) recently, in
conformity with native custom, killed a deformed
piccaninny. He was promptly arrested, and on
trial was condemned to death—a sentence since
commuted. Was the aboriginal so very much
wrong after all ? His method of procedure was
followed by certain highly-civilized nations of an-
tiquity, and it has also been recommended by more
than one eminent philosopher of comparatively
modern times. Future sages will probably decide
that Warrigal was really a tender humanitarian.
# * * *
N.S.W. Premier Lyne stated in Parlia-
ment t’other night that the Supt. of Navigation
“ was unaware that any vessels had been placed
in peril through the recent Sydney harbor fogs.”
The S. of N’s. “ unawareness ” must have been of
great weight and thickness —considering that one
mter-harbor steamer found herself, when a recent
fog lifted, right outside the Heads, in the open
Pacific.
“ MEN ABE SUCH SELFISH BRUTES.”
HE : “I don't see why we shouldn't be as right
as rain! My aunt left me a thousand a year
for life.”
HER: “ Yes, that’s all right for you; but where
do I were in when it slops? ”
The Melb. Scotchbyterians have been dis
cussing the drinking habits of the community,
and one rev. gentleman, Gibson by name,
solemnly advised “ that the efforts of the
church should be directed against the
practice of shouting.” This prefer-
ence on the part of the church for soli-
tary drinking has certainly some busi-
ness points about it. The Bulletin can
show no less than
seven good
Presbyterian
reasons why
shouting is a
curse. If you
go in with a-
nother man
and shout there
is no guarantee
that he will shout
back, and if he disna
shout, you pay Is. and
only get one saxpenny
drink. If you are with four
other men and are perishing
for a drink, it costs half-a-
croon to shout, and there
is no guarantee that the
other four will all shout
in return. If they do
shout on the spot
you lose the flavour
of the last two
drinks — when five
drinks are taken in
quick succession the
delicate aroma of the
last two or three is
sacrificed. If they don’t
shout on the spot the
waste of time, an-
xiety, and boot -
leather in shepherd-
ing them till they
do shout is some-
thing terrible.
Shouting, o f
course, means
drinking in
company
(you can’t
tell the shou-
ter to post
your share of
the whisky
to your address), and the other people
will talk over the liquor. This distracts
your attention from the whisky and you lose the
flavour. If the other man shouts first he
may lead you into a public-house where they
five watered liquor. Also the other men notice
ow much you take and that often makes you take
less; if you are alone you start pouring out the
drink, and say you will take soda, and while the
bar-lady has her back turned getting the
soda you fill up, grab the water jug hastily,
tell her you won’t take soda, and by the
time she turns round again she doesn’t know
how much is whisky and how much water.
There are so many economies in drinking with the
flies that the Kurruk’s preference for having its
whisky by itself is quite understandable. At the
same time the Kurruk must have drunk a good
deal to know about these economies.
•* * *
Tasmanian University is about to appoint
a Professor of Mining. This will be the first
chair of mining created in Australasia. The
salary is to be £SOO a year. k
•• * *
“ Q.”: Amongst the papers in a deceased’s
estate I recently came across
the undertaker’s receipt for
burial-expenses : “Received
payment, with much sym-
pathy. ” He may or may
not have been less callous
than the ordinary ghoul, but
he was much more politic.
“With much sympathy”
is a good shibboleth for
the wooden - overcoat
man.
* *
‘ ‘ Xerxes ” : Re
recent Sydney libel
case over a society
„ t ..
par., a few years ago
there appeared in a
Sydney daily’s coun-
try items an elabor-
ate account of a ban-
quet given to a de-
parting country-town
resident. Said “ban-
quet,” to my positive
knowledge, consisted
solely of the consump-
tion by the departer
and half - a - dozen
friends of two gallons
of “ tanglefoot ” and
a bottle of whisky !
A man in the rush
at jRedfem Station
(Sydney) recently had half
of his watch-chain, with a
sovereign-purse containing two
sovs. attached, suddenly snatched
from his vest. He could see no
one around whose actions were
suspicious, and, merely as a forlorn
hope, he inquired later on at the
Lost Property Office, where, to his
astonishment, the articles were restored
to him. A railway employe, with hia
•macintosh over his arm, had crushed past the
loser in the crowd, and a button ou the macintosh
had caught and carried away the watch-chain,
which was afterwards noticed dangling from the
’tosh.
* * » *
Alf. Vincent’s page of illustrations,
entitled “Joseph of Melbourne on Tour,”
published in The Bulletin, June 23, 1900, is now
A RUM PAIR.
DILAPIDATED LOAFER (addressing
benevolent-looking party): “Could you
spare me sixpence, sir? I am on my way
home to die.”
BENEVOLENT PARTY : “ Why, certainly, for such
a purpose as that. But are you sure you are
telling me the truth? You smell very strongly
of rum.”
D.L.: “I know I do, sir. It’s Bum that's killing
me.”
a Great Historical Work. It depicts bookmaker
Alf. Joseph in London as the confidential guest of
the future first Governor-.General of Australia.
The Bulletin begins to fancy that Fat Joseph
turned the scale in Lord Hopetoun’s favor. Any-
how, there is no disputing the fact that Joseph,
the bookie, did seriously discuss questions of Aus-
tralian national policy with the future Governor-
General, in the future G.G.’s private study, a few
weeks previous to the birth of the Australian
Nation. Think of it! At the present moment
Hopetoun is probably on his knees praying an
amended version of Wilfred Denver’s supplication
— “ O Lord !. put back Thy universe and give me
back the day when I made myself so awfully
chummy to the bloke who bawls the odds ! ”
• * * *
N.S.W. District Court Judge Murray,
who has just got one technical arbitration case
off his hands, has received intimation of a
couple of others coming. It used to be the
custom to pay Judges fees for sitting as
arbitrators, and some years ago Judge
Murray was invited to render an account,
but he then declined, and has sent no ac-
count since. His salary as District Court Judge
covers, he modestly states, all his services to the
State.
* * * *
The case of Matilda Carlisle of a W.Q. /
hospital, set forth in a public enquiry.
The doctor certified that Matilda suffered
from typhoid—a very bad case. Ty-
phoid was followed by abscesses which
gave much trouble. The patient (a .
young girl) was beaten by the matron
with a light strap for not taking broth.
The cook testified that the patient was
often cruelly beaten. It was further alleged
that the beating took place while the patient
was being lanced—&c., &c. No wonder we
set to work to civilise and humanize the heathen.
* * m r
Parramatta Benevolent Asylum is in a
condition disgraceful to Government. There are
1100 inmates (about 200 bedridden) in the old shed
of what was once a woollen-factory. The floors
are thoroughly saturated with oil; and the place
is only fit for burning. And it will burn, sooner
or later—with the inmates !
The strictly sober S. Jiff. Herald now
gracefully conducts its business on the site of
the old Red Cow Inn,” a hilarious hostelry of
the early days, much blamed by contemporaries
for watering its rum at the Tank Stream.
* * * *
In Bendigo Police Cos art the other day
other day a witness was excused from kissing the
book” on the ground that said book had, a
few days previously, been vigorously
|smacked” by a man with well-developed
lip-cancer.
Though Cronje and the old Dopper
Boers will keenly feel their imprisonment on
St. Helena, some of the younger ones and
the Hollanders will not be so lonely there.
About half the gay adventuresses of Cape
Town and Johannesburg are St. Helena
girls.
Some practical philanthropists in
Wellington, M.L., make a point on every
public holiday of getting up an evening
entertainment for all the sailors in port.
They keep them going with games,
music, and supper till after 11 p.m.,
pu 0-closing time, f o that Jack gets
aboard his vessel again with no tempta-
tion to look on the rum when it is red.
As a consequence, no sailor has been
fined in Wellington for drunkenness
during the last 12 months.
* * •
The English Society for the
propagation of the Gospel in foreign
parts has to date contributed nearly
a quarter of a million pounds toC.E.
missions in Australia. This year
Australia will make its first refund contribution
to the Society.
* * * ♦
Sydney City Fathers must have beeii de-
fossilised to an amazing extent, over the late
bubonic scare. They have now decided to force
1 per 1000 of Sydney’s population to become sani-
tation experts. The 410 applicants for ten Sani-
tary Inspectorships under the Council must pay
10s. 6d. each for a course of lectures at the
Technical College, to last until Dec. next, when
ten will be chosen after examination, and the other
400 let loose to hunt rats. Pity the Council did
not decide to attend the course itself, or pay for
the applicants, or force only these who are chosen
to pay. To thus oblige 410 unfortunate seekers of
a £3 per week billet to disburse 10s. 6d. and wait
six months for a l-in-40 chance, may be the
Council’s idea of Compulsory Education, but it’s
a mighty mean way of making £220" 10s. as a sop
to a Govt, which is on the point of sending them
to hunt rats themselves.
* * * *
Dr. Graham, M.L.A.’s speech on Lyne’s
municipal alleged Reform Bill, was.the best utter-
ance up to date from any N.S. W. public man on
the subject. The doctor and Alderman “Tom ”
Hughes are the only two men in the City Council
who have risen above kerb-and-gutter level.
John Norton is useful, of course, but has
done nothing but scream “Reform” and vote
“Harris.” The choice of Mayor of Sydney on a
popular vote would lie among Graham, Hughes,
and Norton, with the odds largely on the latter.
Then a municipal Donnybrook for a year or so,
and, afterwards, painless extinction of the whole
Council as at present constituted.
* » * *
S.A. Govt, is so disgusted with the
vagaries of Adelaide Hospital Board that it has
drafted a Bill, under which the Board will be
abolished, in favor of direct departmental control.
EXPLANATORY.
(A Fact.)
MOGG (short-sighted): “ No flees.”
MRS. MOGG : “ Been put up on account of the
plague, my dear.”


NECKWEAR
IN
Charming Variety
AND
Profusion
|JpF
Lace
Scarves, and
Ribbon Velvets.
Collarettes, with
Square Yoke, also Square
Back-pointed Fronts, Silk
Fichus, Cravats, Fancy Bows and
Chiffons, Silk & Black Velvet Collar
Bands, Plain Black Collar Bands, Vests.
Ostrich Feather Bows in Greys, Whites,
White and Black.
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agdnt,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Simplest-
ITicht^'
Most Durable
m
m
m
5* machines!
Write (or our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
n
J. W. JOHNSTON & QO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St-, Brisbane.
GLOBE TEAS have w ° Equal '
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydnev.
A WOMAN’S LETTER
Sydney, July 24, 1900.
My Dear Myee.—
“ The Rose of Persia ” simply lavishes drapery
and colour-tone, until the most exigent eye is
satisfied. Where am Ito begin ? And presently,
where am Ito leave off? The first act is a
composition in browns. By brown I mean slate,
drab, fawn, terra-cotta, apricot, orange, marigold-
yellow, all rich, glittering, exquisitely harmonious,
with a couple of pale blue frocks to accentuate.
And, away in the background stretched the blue
waters of the open bath. The foreground is the
court in Hassan’s house, scattered with cushions,
lounges, and crowded with lovely wives, until the
desire to be a bul-bul deranges the sanest
Horsetralian intellect. That’s Act 1.
Dolly Vane wears two handsome robes. One is
of black, heavily embroidered in green and blue
stones. The over-mantle is of some lovely,
shimmery blue-green silk, that looks as if it had
been scooped out of mother-o’-pearl. The turban
is opalescent blue. Then, by way of a bold con-
trast, her trousers, and satin slippers are vivid
royal blue. The second is of orange silk, running
in and out of different tones of orange. Dorothy
again represents (or tries to) a plain and passe
female. But what does it matter ? Her next part
will be genuine young bridal, without the comment
that smites her here. “ The thing is plain,” says
the Vizier, handing her in marriage to the story-
teller.
Carrie Moore’s second frock is a poem—a lilac
and a silver lyric. Over palest mauve falls a
violet gauze. Trousers of sapphire-blue just hint
at themselves underneath. A silver crown is set
in her long, red-brown hair, and a veil of deeper
violet floats from it. From the arms fall long,
pale satin sleeves, heavily embroidered in silver,
and a big bunch of lilac hangs from her silver
girdle nearly to her feet.
Another creation, that thrills considerably, is
graced by Brownlow —Brownlow looking all the
world like Henri the Heartbreaker. Brownlow as
King is only to be bettered by Brownlow as
Sultan. In fact, he even filled to a woman’s
satisfaction that beautiful dress of apple-green
satin, lined with drab, and edged with drab, on
which were worked huge pearls, and glittering
green jewels.
And the “ Rose ” herself, Miss Winston Weir ?
I wish I could rave over her, spontaneously, but I
can’t. She wears such an air of not-being-used-to-
her-clothes that you can never regard her as well-
dressed. Pink is the leading note of her frocking,
rich heart o’ rose pink—satin and gauze—and a
leaf-green mantle falling from her shoulders. Out
of the medley of pretty girls, and the whirls of
drapery, stands Cecil Engleheart in a yellow
turban and apricot and orange robes ; the tall
chorus-girl (whom Rumor engages to an operatic
baritone), in a dull brown, with a turquoise girdle
and a rose-lined cloak of brown gauze, the pink
showing through; pretty Miss Joey Cassillis,
dancing in primrose skirts bordered with fine gold,
and making love to the Sultan in gauzy blue, with
a bouquet of forget-me-nots hanging from her
girdle. Also, there is the loveliest ballet, all
gauze, and tunic, and floating veils, and silver.
Miss Minnie Everett was loudly called for after
the ballet. She came out in a silk blouse and
black skirt, and kissed her hands to the wildly-
applauding house.
It was not in the opera. But the d.c. had paid
seven-and-six for its seats, and considered the
extra sensation was due to it.
The extra incident was this way. Carrie Moore
received two big baskets of flowers. She ran off
the stage and left them behind her. Presently, on
came Brownlow, to sing a duet with Miss Weir.
An encore was called for. Brownlow stepped out
again. Then, for the first time, he saw Carrie’s
two baskets of flowers standing at the corner of
the stage. He went forward, picked them up,
smiled, bowed, generously presented one to Miss
Weir, and kept the other himself with a truly sul-
tanic unconsciousness.
By the way, a rumor got round last week that
Brownlow was out of the caste, and that Mr. W.
B. Beattie (his understudy) was to play Sultan.
Crowds of “ Willie Beattie’s” friends rolled up to
see the popular young baritone in his first profes-
sional part. Bohemian Sydney knows him
already well as a writer, singer, playwright, and
actor. His little Japanese Opera played by Ama-
teurs last year was bright and fetching. Lately he
made his hit in “Lady Dolly,” was engaged by
Mr. Williamson, continued hitting the public
with Jingo sojtgs at the Lyceum, and now aspires
to fill the Sultan’s shoes. Up till Friday Brown-
low was still refusing to go on, but somehow the
breach, whatever it was, was healed.
The only painful thing that I took away from
“ The Rose of Persia ” was the discovery of a new
sect. I am afraid I must call it The Persian
Methodist. And lam sorry to say that our own
giddy Lauri is head of the Order. His insignia
are a beard from the chin, a pair of slippers, and
raiment that ought to go round with the plate. I
hope you will notice I am not including his 25
wives among the indispensables of the new
Religion, although they are a lovely lot of
creatures.
To turn to a different kind of a show. The
Mayoress’s Conversazione to the Associated
Nurses brought a happy crowd to the Town Hall
on Friday. Nurses wore their respective uni-
forms, donning white kid gloves by way of a finish.
The kindly Mayoress beamed out of a grey bro-
cade. Miss Cissie Harris was in white and a lace
polonaise over chiffon flounces.
It is fashionable just now to be polite to one’s
guests. Even tiptop society women endeavour to
make things pleasant to their visitors, and a few
bold spirits go to the length of introducing a visi-
tor to the one on the next chair. But there’s still
a feeling of daring about such a proceeding, and
the bravest woman will not introduce one guest to
two people.
Returning to the nurses, what a positively
beautifying profession ! Girls go into it with
sallow cheeks, and emerge with lovely pink-and-
white complexions. Hard work, paififul experi-
ences, and mutton-chop diet —is it tliese that work
the miracle ? At this particular party, Society
scrags, in lace and diamonds, shrank into positive
ugliness beside those hundreds of fresh face 3
under white caps and glossy hair.
By the way, what do you think of this as a
tribute to the healthiness of the profession ? A
reasonably slender young Sydney girl entered a
country hospital only a few months ago. She now
writes down to her mother that her weight—fight-
ing-weight, scrubbing-weight, late-hours-and-early-
hours-weight—-has gone up to seventeen stone !
“ In the midst of Death we are in Life.” Forgive
the grimness of the sentiment. The annual dance
in aid of the Hospice for the Dying will take place
in the Paddington Town-hall on August Ist. The
Dance of Death!
Orpheus M'Adoo’s death leaves a great blank
in the Jubilee Singers. He succumbed after an
operation. At his funeral, on a very wet after-
noon last week, singers and actors and actresses
filled a long line of carriages that passed up King-
street at the hour when everybody was about.
Through the carriage-windows one caught glimpses
of black frizzy hair, golden curls, and crimps, and
violet-powder. An open-carriage was laden with
flowers scattered in generous profusion from the
theatrical world.
The blare of concerts is in the air—recitals,
benefits, and plain, straight, money-making affairs.
Two Sydney girls—Miss Pearl M‘Crossin and
Miss Fannie Walker—gave a private and pleasing
hearing at the Equitable last week, and come
before the public at the Y.M.C.A. Hall on Thurs-
day, August 2.
Speaking of concerts, someone tells me that she
went to one lately under pressure, and entered
just as a serio-comic song of “Baiby” got as far
as these words—
“ Mother’s darling, sweet idol,
Sleeping snugly in his crldle."
As he dashed out he nearly upset a policeman.
Allpress’sbenefit is fixed for August 16. Surely
an overflowing house is preparing to be there.
The well-known fiddler has been in bad health
lately.
The Pretoria Ball, in aid of the Boys’ Brigade,
comes off at Paddington Town Hall next Thurs-
day, August 2.
Oh, these wedding notices ! Their latest. A
Sydney girl was married last Monday week. She
spent her honeymoon at a fashionable hotel, and
on the Wednesday she read how her pretty wed-
ding had come off on the Tuesday ! Like Nanki-
Poo, she shivered and shook when she realised
how she and her bridegroom had stolen into the
hotel on Monday afternoon.
Donald Macdonald, after surviving bullets and
bran-pies of Ladysmith, begins lectures at Cen-
tenary Hall, Sydney. To save the heart-breaks of
hero-worshippers, big Mac. is married. Mrs.
Mac., a well-known Melbourne pen-woman, is a
little, slender, golden-maned woman, with a
passion for cycling. Their one child (Elaine) is a
fine, wolhbuilt girl, just into her teens. Mother
and daughter are planning a trip to the old
country next year, when Mrs. Mac. will cycle
England over and over.
Everyone knows that Lady Lamington is one of
the best whips in Queensland. As the Hon.
May Hozier she was renowned for her good
driving, and in Brisbane is to be seen tooling her
handsome bays along the North Quay road.
Report says she manages his restive Excellency
well—one hears a great deal about his kicking
over the traces, but one never sees anything ! Still
it gives a man an extra fascination to have such a
reputation, and the idea is federated in the Society
of Australia that Queensland’s Governor is a wolf
in sheep’s clothing all the same.
Capt. Farquhar, the longest of the two long
Queensland A.D.C.’s, drives rather a novel turn-
out. He packs his lazy length and a smartly-
dressed lady visitor at Govt. House into a tiny
yellow sulky, adds three spanking chestnuts in a
row, and tears down street at top speed. Some-
times the chestnuts run together, more frequently
they don’t, but prefer different sides of lamp-posts,
and such-like things. of this season’s
debutantes watched the meandering steeds ad-
miringly the other afternoon. Said one to the
other : “He drove one horse on Saturday most
beautifully, and then he had two yesterday. Two’s
called tandem, you know. I wonder what three
in a row is called ?” “I am not quite sure,” was
the grave answer, “but I think it’s triplets.”
What a boon our Governor is—to the other pro-
vinces ! One never takes up a Melbourne, Bris-
bane, or Adelaide paper without coming upon
some paragraph relating to our Ex. We never
follow the doings—doings, did I say ’ much smaller
things than doings—of other people’s Governors.
Of course, it might be answered here that we have
enough to do with our own, but, be that as it may
(and we make no confessions, invite no aspersions),
journalists from over the borders will find a great
blank in their screeds when little Willy is taken
hence. What do you think of the presumption of
the Melbourne letter in an English journal that
takes it upon itself to speak of our Ex. as “ The
. Actiny-Governor,” adding that the facetious sobri-
quet has been bestowed by all Australia ? This is
the first Sydney has heard of it. You have to go
to London via Melbourne to get news of the
prophet in your own country. As a matter of
fact, the title in question was first applied by The
Bulletin to Lieut -Gov. Madden.
The Grand National Bazaar spreads over all the
English papers. No details are missing, down to
the fact that the Princess of Wales refused to take
any change out of a £lOO note. In fact, a long list
of names is published in one journal of all the
Blue Blood buyers who followed Her Highness’
example, and refused to fill their pockets with
small change. Mrs. Baden-Powell did a roaring
trade with photographs of B.P. But one looked
in vain for fresh side-lights on the pronunciation
of the famous name. Following His Ex.’s ex-
ample, Sydney calls Powell “ Poole,” but the fact
remains that 8.-P.’s schoolfellows rhymed Powell
with towel. Anyway, nothing sold like those
photographs. For once, the sales of all the beauty-
actresses were entirely eclipsed by the pictures of
a small, and not remarkable-looking, man, and the
bazaar achieved the huge financial success of
£20,000.
Nicholson and Co. send an Australian edition of
the evergreen “Blue Danube” and five other
Strauss waltzes, the lot for a shilling, which I
warmly recommend. Also from Nicholson’s is a
pretty waltz by Tourjee, “It Still Waves,” pub-
lished by the dashing John Church Company,
who have brought out so many good things lately.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
0 And ‘Hopey’ is to be Governor-General!
So much for winning little ways ! A local humble
admirer relates how the then Governor remem-
bered to enquire for the narrator’s sick child,
casually mentioned at a previous interview.
“Professor Kernot, at a recent smoke-social,
reminisced of a farewell unofficial visit paid to
the Working Men’s College by Lord H. The latter,
says his chronicler, took especial interest in the
engineering students, recalling as they did his own
elder brother, an enthusiastic would-be engineer
who entered iron-works in Glasgow and toiled
there in his old dungarees till he got a fatal chill.
Premier M‘Lean’s mother (her son relates) in her
lassiehood ‘ pu’d the gowans fine’ in company
with the grandmother (one of the leddies Mac-
donald) of the Gov.-General elect.
“ Australian Governors, ’tis said, can’t make
out what people see in Hopetoun, don’tcherknow.
Not that it’s so easy to be popular. Precious few
pro-consuls master the trick. A shining excep-
tion was General Norman. That dear old man,
say Bananalanders, seldom forgot a face and never
seemed hampered by the idea that too much
‘niceness’ to nobodies means not enough to go
round the somebodies. A younger vice-regal per-
sonage, somewhere about, is far less successful.
Taken singly, he’s not intolerable, just as his wife,
‘on her own,’ is inoffensive enough. In double
harness, however, they trample recklessly on
Sassiety’s pet corns. When together they’re like
two green gooseberries on a stalk, sour enough to
set on edge the teeth of a whole province.
“ Melbourne ‘ sassiety ’ is wondering how ‘ dear
Lady Hopetoun ’ likes the idea of a second banish-
ment to Australia. That she was quite out of her
element as a Governoress was insisted by all those
buzzing people who expected the ‘Gov’nment
’Ouse ’ chatelaine to wear an eternal glad smile of
welcome, and to be painfully gratified at the sight
of everybody throughout a long, nerve-racking
function, and through the maddening waste of an
official ‘damce’ or ‘garding’ party. Lady H.
had a wild, free Hibernian rearing, and the
restraints of Australian incivilisation were par-
ticularly galling to her. She was only really
happy when on top of a horse, rattling across
country; then, at least, she could shake off the
bulky Guvmentouse deadheads of the unfair sex,
who regard the vice-regal couple as entrepreneurs,
paid to provide cheap festivities for the ‘very
Naicest ’—and to be dooced smart about it.
“What show has Lord Richard Nevill for a
place on the Gov.-General’s staff? He sup-
planted Wallington as Brassey’s private secretary.
Now Wally is on top, and Dick is just an aide to
Madden. Do you think that if Hopetoun says,
‘ Shall we take on Nevill,’ Wallington will rub his
chin and say ‘ Better not ? ’ What would you do ?
“In view of the fact that the heir-apparent to
the Austrian throne has just renounced all claims
to the Crown for the sake of a governess, local
Naicest find it hard not to lie awake ’o nights,
pondering the marked attentions shown these
times by ;a titled tenderheart to a belle of the
boards. -
“Among the supposed victims of the alleged
Chinese massacre is Miss Ethel Halley, the mis-
sionary-daughter of a well-known local Indepen-
dent clergyman. When Miss Halley first went
to China, her parents went with her, and stayed
till they saw her settled in a ‘safe district.’
Later, she visited her people in Melbourne, and
took back with her as travelling companion to
Pigtail Country her sister, Dr. Gertrude Halley,
who enjoyed her peep of the Celestial Land, and
returned somewhat reluctantly to practise her
profession in a Melb. suburb. Now, despite
parental precautions, it seems as if genial Ethel
Halley had dreed her weird in company with the
other foreigners in cruel Pekin.
“ The Churches are not too consistent, as shown
by their time-honored bazaar tactics—raffling and
the fleecing of susceptible male sinners per medium
of pretty saints. Besides speculation and flirta-
tion, stage wiles now find a corner in the up-to-
date apostle’s bag of tricks. A local city mission,
peregrinating from one tabernacle to another,
draws the ungodly to the House of Prayer by dint
of frisky little week-night farces. While the ama-
teur comedian, crouching in the pulpit, awaits his
cue to ‘ pop up,’ a fellow-mummer, in the role of a
reveller (presumably vinous) at an at-home, pro-
poses successively to several sister-guests in front
of the Communion-rail. ‘ Why ain’t I a Mormon?’
wails the amorous one later, with his glance glued
to a group of fetching, disappointed deaconesses,
whereat the congregation titters decorously. These
histrionic evangelists are not ear-marked b?
Bishop Goe. Nathless, the Church has its own
spry way of calling sinners to repentance. Isn’t
tne prevalent sentimental curate bought and paid
for as a petticoat-draw pure and simple?
“By the way, our Anglican Shepherd-in-
Chief still laments the loss of a vicar with
a high gift of training up girls, old and
young, in the way they should go. Men com-
plained that his reverence’s walk and conversation
bristled with allusions to ‘ the bliss of a young
lady’s kiss, &c., couched in Scriptural language.
Women, however, found him ‘ugly but magnetic,’
and feel themselves much further from Heaven
than before What’s His Name gaed awa’.
“All the Naicest rolled up to Nance O’Neil’s
Hospital matinee at Her Majesty’s (July 20th.)
The Lieut-Governor seemed cheery as usual and
found plenty to say to his wife and daughters.
These listeners never appear to find Pa prosy,
which says much for his quality as a conversation-
alist. The average patriarch is habitually taciturn
in the hearing of his own unappreciative flesh and
blood. When he does talk, his nearest and
dearest have the air of wishing that old fogies shed
their tongues along with their teeth.
“In the vice-regal group, Mrs. Osborne, the
new grandson’s mamma, loomed larger than her
own sufficiently plump mother. Sister Ruby wore
a white silk muslin and lace sailor-collar with her
dark frock, and screened her pretty face with a
white veil. Mrs. Percy Chirnside and her sister,
Miss Fenner, affected white furs, turquoise
splashes in their toques, and the prevalent sack-
jackets to the knees. Mrs. Willie Robb, who
came with a Fisken coterie,, had red-brown Eton
suit picked out with white, and gauzy black
toque.
“ On the boards, Nance O’Neil, as that bad egg
Hedda Gabler, was at home when things took a
tragic turn, but as a supposedly-attractive woman
in her own house, she seemed a cold, sharp-
tongued, masterful Yankee baggage. Altogether
this particular group are histrionically unwhole-
some creatures, though decidedly interesting.
Kingston represented a wild-eyed groggy Genius.
Even Carne’s good Prof, was prone to neglect his
own wife and drift into a Platonic comradeship
with a golden-haired grass-widow—whose mar-
vellous power for good over men was apparently
too precious to waste on a mere husband.
“ Josephine Thynne moves one foot slowly up
and down when she weeps (in Hedda Gabler.)
Apparently her tear-pump has a pedal action.
The art of weeping on the stage is apparently not
easily acquired. Mrs. Brough simply hides
behind a lace handkerchief and says ‘boo-hoo,’
which is not weeping. Nance O’Neil has a
genuine sobbing cry. Both Duse and Ellen Terry
can weep wet at will. It is related of old John
Ryder, a sterling English actor, that when an
actress expressed surprise at another actress being
able to shed real tears on the stage, he said, ‘ Look
at me, my dear,’ and instantly rolled a big tear
down his cheek But one cannot feel sad when
Miss Thynne lifts her foot to weep; it is too
amusing.
“ The black theatre-pelisse deserves encourage-
ment, because its wearer looks less huge than in a
gay-colored garment built on the same lines.
Lately, scribe saw a black-satin specimen, just
from ’Ome. Yoke and high collar, sprinkled with
designs in lace applique, were edged with fur and
a lace flounce. Down the fronts ran broad laid-on
bands of lace and chiffon frills, in black and white
respectively.
“ A large photo reproduction in a recent Melb.
Punch was an excuse for the following legend:—
‘ Miss May Thompson, of Ararat, who made her
debtit at the Prahran Mayoral Ball, and wore
cream silk, the bodice and skirt veiled with gauze,
richly embroidered with, &c., &c., and carried one
of Miss Blank’s shower bouquets.’ And still there
are people who complain that Punch is not a very
humorous paper.
• “ Some day the artistic conscience of Melbourne
will arise and demand that the paddocky portraits
of local drapers, grocers, etc., which occupy so
much space in the National Gallery, shall be
burnt. A few of a man’s friends pay for his por-
trait to be painted, send it to the Gallery, and it
is. there stuck up to be an eyesore. Thus you come
across several yards of portrait of Benjamin Cow-
deroy, a big square of John Blyth, and so on. The
worst offence in this way is a picture of two grown-
up daughters of a rich squattin g family—a big canvas
representing two young women, got up in full
evening-dress, in a garden at noonday. It is a
fearful thing in pink and green, but hung in the
midst of a group of masterpieces of painting. How
hideous the taste that permits of these offences to
the eye being hung in a public gallery !
“And when is somebody going to tomahawk
that unspeakably-awful Vic. National Gallery
portrait of the Queen —by no less a personage than
Hubert Herkomer ? Talk about treason—no such
treason was ever committed as the hanging in
public view of such a portrait of a monarch, in
that monarch’s own dominions. The Herkomer
picture is believed to have cost £10f)0 or so, but no
reasonable person would give it house-room.
\ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
The discussion as to whether or no the
plenteous Nance hath the fire and soul of the true
artist is still raging hotly. Everything in these
days of liberal interchange of opinion becomes a
subject for discussion save and except the one
fact universally admitted by the “cultchawed”
that the P.D. Corset bestows the highest possible
charm and grace upon the wearer. Be she a
Nance O’Neil, a Mrs. Brough, a Brown Potter, or
a divine Sara there is a little something left for
her to gain from the P.D. God bless it!


Hotel
Australia
Bates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
Dr. Gresswell, President of Victorian
Board of Health: “There is no
danger in coming to Sydney at
the present time. Of course, it
depends a great deal where the
visitors go. To come to a place
like The Australia Hotel is to run
no risk at all."
11. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Largest and Best Company in the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The Reports of the State Insurance Departments show that the Mutual Life of New York
had, on December 31, 1899,
Larger Total Assets
A Greater Gain in Assets during the Year
A Larger Total Income and
Larger Amount paid to Policyholders
than any other Company.
ASSETS, at end of 1899, £61,980,398.
Policies include Insurance, Investment, and Trusteeship, as required. Write for particulars, giving
name, address and date of birth, to “The Manager,”at any of the undermentioned Branch Offices.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Branch Offices :
SYDNEY— Company’s Building, Martin Placb.
MELBOURNE —2B9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—2IO Queen Street.
ADELAIDE —73 Kino William Street.
PERTH— St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART —93 Macquarie Street.
The plague has had its advantages for some
people, though not for most. The Sydney Safe Deposit,
for instance, has had a great accession of business during
the last few months, consequent on persons having de-
cided to prepare for the worst by placing their papers,
&c., in safety. The fear is that when a house is quaran-
tined valuables may go astray. It is well to be on the
safe side, and the Safe Deposit affords perfect protection
against either fire or burglars. It is well worth a visit,
anyway. The Deposit is situated in Ash-street, near to
Paling and Co’s.*
THE TEETH.
The only means of keeping the teeth in a proper
state of preservation is by using a scientifically-
prepared, antiseptic tooth powder. Smokers especi-
ally suffer from discoloration of the teeth.
S3T Vegetable Tooth Powder, made by
NEWMAN, Chemist,
KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Meets every requirement. By Post, 2s. 3d.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Two members of the present N.S.W.
Ministry Lyne and O’Sullivan—are Tasmanian-
born.
John Norton—now close on 40—boasts
that he never witnessed a horserace nor made a
wager.
Manfield Newton, in S.M. Herald, sug-
gests “Hopetoun” as the name of the Federal
capital. Australia, then, has no statesman of her
own whose memory is worth commemorating.
N.S.VV . Agent-General Copeland has just
been visiting his brother, the Parson of Pudsey
P ae Yorkshire village that has produced so many
good cricketers) whom he had not met for 38 years.
Borchgrevinck’s long-drawn narrative of
the Southern Cross exploration attempt was out
of all proportion to the results of the expedition,
which was a thinly-cloaked failure. H’m : Borch-
grevmck-—Baulk-rave-ink !
Salaries of Australia’s Chief-Justices .
Onslow (W.A.) £l7OO, Dodds (Tasmania) £l5OO,
(S.A.) £2OOO, and Madden, Darley and
(inmth £3500 each. Federation will probably
affect most of these salaries.
A tontine - insurance of five brothers
(amount £20,000) has just matured in Queensland.
1 he survivor was the first to fall seriously ill, and
was at death’s-door more than once, but lived to
see the healthy brothers drop off one by one.
De Wet, the Boer comandant who is
cabled as “breaking through ” the British
cordon,” got his education at the Charterhouse
School, London—-where Baden-Powell’s young
i lea was taught how to shoot. De Wet was called
to the English Bar in the ’Bo’s.
Melbourne’s Mayor, Smalkum M'Eacharn,
aspires to be the first Australian High Commis-
sioner in London, and is prepared to spend £lO,OOO
a year to uphold the dignity of the office. [The
Canadian High Commissioner, ye ken, has been
made a peer ; Lord Strathcona. j
Dear Bulletin. —Would any Sydney
funeral be de riyueur in the absence of the übi-
quitous “ Mr. E. -”? When his own
planting ” comes along, Mr. E. ’s ghost
will simply holler if the dailies don’t give the
eorpse a “personal ” boost. —F.
Maurice O’Rourke, bn his re-election as
Speaker of M.L. Parliament :
J have no desire to magnifj’ my office, but I may be per-
mitted to say that in no other place can it be so safely
sen tied as in the member whom you have thought fit to
elevate to the position of Speaker of this House.
Stafford Ransoine, travelling commissioner
of London’s new half-penny daily, the Express,
was anchored by gout in a Perth hospital for a
fortnight, and he is now tied to Adelaide by the
same malady, which has crippled one foot. He
does the eastern provinces ere going on to China
and Japan.
Noted as a coincidence that of the two Aus-
tralian Judges who are in the running for an Im-
BEAUTY BEFORE ALL.
GLADYS: “Glad yer father's dead! Lor' bless me, you are terrible."
BOLGER : “ Well, yer see, if my ole man wuz erlive I s'pose I'd have
to wear pants like Whitewash."
penal judgeship both are Samivels, both the sons
of “dissenting” parsons—Griffith’s father was a
Congregationalist, and Way’s a Bible Christian—
and both reached the bench through Parliament
amid a good deal of muttering.
Lord Hopetoun had one opportunity to
show a wise discretion as Gov. of Victoria—and
his bald-faced lordship certainly seized the oppor-
tunity. When the Melbourne banking crisis had
begun to be acute, Hopetoun skipped away to
Maoriland, leaving the week’s-bank-holiday fiasco
to be ordained by Waxellency Madden.
If a man wants to see how soon he can be
forgotten let him study the recent newspaper “re-
views of the Federal movement ” on the passing of
the Bill, and count the references todead-and-gone
Parkes. Even S.M. Herald, in its article on the
services of the delegates in particular, mentioned
Wentworth, but not its hero of a few short years
ago !
Thomas Bracken, Maoriland’s dead poet
and legislator, should have turned in his grave
when prosy Anderson, of Waterloo, presented
him to N.S.W. Parliament as an advocate for
women’s franchise rights. Bracken was-a Liberal
in most respects, but woman’s claim to vote he
scornfully repelled. Anderson didn’t quote
Bracken fairly.
Genial sportsman Mat. O'Shanassy (Vic.)
recently deceased, was the last surviving son of
the oldtime Parliamentarian, and his death ex-
tinguished a family ambition. His father be-
queathed him the bulk of his fortune, believing
that it would stimulate the young man to enter
political life and achieve a baronetcy. But Mat.
was contented with the pleasures of the turf.
“Man proposes, &c.”
Premier Seddon’s Islands trip has appa-
rently only set him up temporarily. He was
medically advised to visit California, but time w r as
too short. Now stated that he will go there after
the session, and thence to England. It is per-
sistently averred, by the way, that he could have
had a K.C.M.G.-ship at the Birthday distribu-
tion, but preferred to wait until the war-honors
are scattered round, when he expects a baronetcy.
Delegate Deakin is very complimentary to
Kingston, and says he is a born diplomat. “ But
we had to curb him,” says Deakin—“ he was
always trying to put sentences into our letters
purposely to stir people up. But we struck them
out, and Kingston had to go on his own for a
fight.” “Charlie” —according to the letters he
sends to his friends in Adelaide—is determined to
“ stir-up ” a certain high official when he comes
back.
A mere scratch on the leg, leading to
blood-poisoning, killed Abb6 Schurr in Casino
hospital, at the age of 74. The abbe made a
brilliant start in his clerical career. His linguistic
knowledge was marvellous, and in every way he
appeared cut out for an ideal University professor.
He practised a while at this on the Continent and
in Dublin, but suddenly emigrated to N.S.W. and
lived among timber-getters and other pioneers till
death.
Victorian Dr. Morrison, the Times corres-
pondent, recently killed at Pekin, was a great
favourite with David Syme up to the time of the
New Guinea Expedition. David was not quite
satisfied with Morrison’s exploration of Papua,
and sent out a second expedition—remarkable in
its history of disaster. David Barclay Walker
was the journalist entrusted with keeping diary,
and so wonderful were some of his entries that
Editor Fitchett, of the then-existing Melbourne
Daily Telegraph, declared in his paper that if
the entries were correct, the expedition must have
worn “ seven-league boots” to cover the distance.
Walker sued the Telegraph for libel, and got a
verdict for £IOO.
When Gladstone
visited the lonian Islands,
about 40 years ago, a
young artillery lieutenant
stationed there, named
Stralian, was deputed to
act as his A.D.C. The
G.O.M. was so satisfied
with the assiduity of his
companion that he made
him Governor of one of
the British possessions.
In course of time the for-
tunate soldier was pro-
moted to Tasmania,
under the style and title
of Sir G. C. Strahan,
K.C.M.G. Better an
ounce of luck than a ton
of perseverance. At a
Melb. bazaar in ’B4,
Stralian, who was a
bachelor—no end of a
bachelor, in fact—went
round the stalls and
pinched the arms of all
the plump and pretty
girls. People said that
even if he were presented
to the Queen he would
pinch her arm, it was such a habit of his.
One of the victims of the Mafeking-drunk
night in London was Capt. Frank Robinson,
nephew of Australia’s old friend, Sir Hercules.
While the captain was cheering, in a hilarious
state of wine, a ’bus ran him down. He was
diagnosed at the hospital as merely drunk and
locked up—to be found dying of skull-fracture in
the morning. It is a question whether the relief
of Mafeking didn’t cause far more deaths than the
siege did.
Of the men prominent in Queensland
politics within a short memory most have trod the
paths of calamity. Byrnes died—and that was
easy ; but M‘IIwraith walked long among the
shadows before disappearing. Griffith and Nelson
got safely housed by an exercise of canniness that
looks like craft. But Morehead—poor Morehead !
Donaldson—poor Donaldson ! Pattison — poor
Pattison ! Buzacott —-poor Buzacott! And so on.
And Palmer died before the crash came.
ON THE HONEYMOON
MRS. : “ How lovely! It reminds of those- beautiful lines of Dr. Watts'."
MR. : " Oh. yes. ‘ Meet to part no more ’ business.”
MRS. : “ No, that other one, 'When every prospect pleases, and only man is vile'!"
The appointment of Chaffey Baker as a
Q.C. has provoked a smile in Adelaide. He is
not known to have any standing as a pleader ; he
hasn’t appeared as a counsel in the courts half-a-
dozen times in the last 20 years. During the very
week of his promotion he gave a highly technical
ruling as Leg. Council President, which was
laughed at by the profession. The Chief Justice
practically has the making of Q.C’s, and Baker’s
appointment has been construed by the public as
having something to do with the recent incident
re Privy Council appeals.
How singular that the author of the
most extreme and brutal presentation of the
“Might is Right” doctrine ever written in Eng-
lish, namely, the treatise published in Chicago,
entitled “ Might is Right: or the Survival of the
Strongest,” by Ragnar Redbeard, should turn out
to be Arthur Desmond, author of such stirringly
democratic verses as “ The Leader of the Future,”
and other Bulletin contributions. By the way,
several people have told this paper that “The
Leader of the Future ” is a bold steal from Ella
Wheeler Wilcox. Can any reader throw light
on the matter ?
“ G. 8.” : “ Oh, blindness to the future—
kindly given,” &e. I remember Alf. Josephs, a
rubber-lipped boy with a chronic cold, standing
outside his Mo.’s shop in Bourke-street, inviting
all and sundry “to puy this peautiful does.”
Now Alfred is a “financier,” deals with coin in
lieu of slops, patronises the Government, and is
hand-and-glove with the aristocracy of Hingland.
Hath he not narrated in Melb. ’Erald how he
met (Governor-General) ’Opetoun in the Strand,
and how that nobleman shook hands with him and
asked him to dinner, when he and the coronet
talked Australia over the wine and walnuts ! His
admiration of Tummy Wales also is immense.
Some Australian birthdays for August:—
Alfred Deakin, 44 on 3rd ; R. E. O’Connor and
Poet Caldwell, M.P. (S. A.), on 4th ; ex-Attorney-
Generul Isaacs, 45, and Rolf Boldrewood, 74, on
6th; Grainger, M.P. (S. A.), 530 n 7th; ex-Premier
Turner, 49 on Bth ; Lord Ranfurly (M.L.), 44 on
14th ; Australian Explorer Eyre, 85 on 16th;
Works Minister Foster (S. A.), 44 on 20th ; Simon
Fraser (Vic.), 65 on 21st ; ex-Chief-Secretary
Moore (Tas.), 77, and John Forrest (W.A.), 53, on
22nd; Agent-General Cockburn (S.A.), 50, and
Purves, Q.C., 57, on 23rd; R. F. Sholl (W.A.),
52 on 27th ; Graham Berry (Vic.), 78 on the 28th ;
and Judge Connolly (M.L.), 78 on 31st.
Pumpkin Smith, to Canterbury (N.S.W.)
electors, who, he hopes, will return him to the Leg.
Assembly:—
He might be forgiven for referring to a matter of a per-
sonal character. When the terrible accidents occurred in
connection with the coal-mines while he was Minister for
Mines he had been promptly on the spot, and, although
repeatedly warned not to venture below, he was deter-
mined to see exactly what was the cause of the trouble,
and had gone right down to the scene of the accident and
seen for himself. He did not consider the danger to him-
self. What the miners had to stand he was prepared to
stand. (Loud applause.)
Pumpkin Smith must, indeed, be a man of nerve.
Imagine the nerve of a person who skites like
that !
The late R.C. Bishop Lanigan, who was
a Templemore man, was present at a banquet held
to celebrate the completion of a certain big N.S.W.
country church. Many healths, including the
Bishop’s, had been honored, when an excited in-
dividual named Murphy, or something like that,
laboriously scrambled to his feet and stated in a
thick voice that he had “ wan more toast to pro-
pose, ” and he proceeded to fire-off—
Fill yer glasses, ivery man agin :
Here’s to Lanigan, the only Lanigan,
The flower av Timplemoore.
Then he fell under the table amidst great enthu-
siasm, through which the prelate’s thin treble “Sit
down, Murphy,” was plainly audible.
What Chamberlain thinks of Alfred Deakin
and what A.D. thinks of Eyeglass Joe it would
be interesting to know. In introducing the Com-
monwealth Bill in the Commons, Chamber-
lain studiously refrained from mentioning
Deakin’s name, though he found occasion to speak
of Barton, Kingston, and others. Since Deakin
has been back, he would rather not discuss Cham-
berlain. He has called him “ that brilliant states-
man,” but interviewers cannot draw him on the
subject of Cambcrlain the man. This reticence
does not make for sparkle and spice in public life.
In the interests of newspapers and for the delight
of theirreaders, Deakin ought to be thumbsorewed
until he makes candid expression of his opinion of
the ambitious Brummagem screw-and-orchid man.
When Sir George Bowen (an adept at
“butthering-up and slithering-down”) was Go-
vernor of Victoria he had once to preside at some
function in a Godforsaken country township, and
in the course of an oration he said : “ And when
I look around on your beautiful—your beauti-
ful” In the howling wilderness, stretching
on all sides, there was nothing the eye could rest
on, save a miserable little burying-place. “On
your beautiful,” went on Bowen, “ er—cemetery,
I feel as if I should like, when my course of life
is run, to lay my weary head in peace within its
calm seclusion ! ”
Seddon is the most misrepresented man in
politics. He is advertised as being rough in
speech as in appearance, and is depicted by the
Tory papers of M.L. as a savage. In reality, lie is
a pleasant-mannered, kindly-spoken gentleman,
with a handsome face and a look of distinc-
tion carried by no other Australian Premier,
In an assemblage of the world’s statesmen,
Seddon would at once be singled out as a leader.
His appearance and manner proclaim him a born
ruler of men. He is well named “King Dick,”
for, were a plebiscite taken to elect a monarch in
M. he would be king in reality next week, as he
is king in effect to-day.
N.S. Wales has supplied at least three
artillerists to the Chinese—Gapt. Close, Staff-
Sergt. Naughton and Artillery-Instructor Miller.
Capt. Close was regarded as a brilliant young
.artillery officer, but having—as will be remem-
bered —got into trouble over a petticoat, was
court-martialled, and left the service. He went at
once to China, and was appointed a Colonel of
Artillery. Instructor Miller had graduated with
credit at Shoeburyness, but the petty jealousy of
N. officers forced his resignation, and Cli na
promptly gave him also a commission. Staff-
Sergt. Naughton, a machine-gun specialist, left
Svdney in somewhat similar circumstances to
Miller, and was at once employed by the Chinese
Govt.
Mr. John Rae, Sydney’s first town-clerk,
who died the other day at the venerable age of 87,
leaves three ex-town-clerks behind him, of Whom
Mr. C. H Woolcott, who held office in the sixties,
seventies, and eighties, and whom Mr. Rae has
nominated as one of his executors, is the eldest.
Mr. Broughton, Mayor of Sydney in 1847, will
celebrate his 90th birthday next-month. Hon.
Geo. Thornton, first Mayor under the then re-
formed City Council, has just passed into his 81st
year. Of Sydney ex-Mayors there now remain—
one of the forties (Broughton), one of the fifties
(Thornton), one of the sixties (John Woods), two
of the seventies (M. Chapman and C. J. Roberts),
four of the eighties (J. Harris, Hardie, John
Young, and Riley), and four of the nineties
(Manning, Lees, Ives, and M. Harris).
A Bulletin contributor alleges that" ex-
Anarchist Andrews (in whom this paper takes a
mild interest because he’s a decent and very in-
telligent fellow who has been hardly treated) is
the grandson of an English baronet and grandee
of tne Court of Spain who threw off his title and
frills when he settled in Australia—which he
thought (poor dreamer !) would be free for ever
from European ostentation and European degra-
dation. And Sebastian Bach, Andrews’ faithful
Pylades, is a lineal descendant of the father of the
symphony, Sebastian Bach. So extremes rub
shoulders in Australia just as in older lands where
a Russian-caste count is the modem apostle of
equality ; a Russian prince the protagonist of
anarchism—where Mirabeau of the noblesse de-
stroyed the noblesse; and the Royal Due d’Or-
leans voted death to his king and brother and
called himself Egalite !


MACONOCHIE’S
PACK EACH YEAR MORE
FISH THAN ALL OTHER
BRITISH FISH PRESERVERS
COMBINED.
FreSb HcrriogS
Kippered Herrings
HcrriQgS Tonjato SaCic*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
DAVID STORER & SONS’
In Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BLUE.
Registered
Trade
Mark.
TATTOO OIL
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking Oil
The Perfect Sheep-Marker- BRANDING OIL
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
Aboriginalities.
A deso’ate ending ! A youth named
Crump was engaged at a Sydney labor-agency for
Yethong Station (abo it 40 miles west from Mt.
Hope), but after about two months was dismissed
as incompetent, being offered two weeks at scrub-
bing to obtain some money to return home. It
was about four miles»from the homestead into
desolation. A youth who assisted Crump to fix
camp said at the magisterial inquiry, afterwards
held at Mt. Hope, that Crump remarked, “Any
man would go mad here before two weeks.” He
was accordingly, not long after, found by a station-
hand dead under a tree, having hanged himself
CASH OR SABBATH.
A recent deputation from Sydney Zoo asked for an allowance to meet
the water-bill and for £1000 a year as subsidy; or in the alternative, to be
permitted to close the grounds on Sunday.
CHORUS OF OLD STAGERS: “Give us our day of rest, swearing
and Prayer.”
with a coat-strap which had broken with his
weight. A half-uftked damper was found in the
ashes, and in his swag a note —“ Dear father and
mother, I would not have hanged myself only I
am so far away from home.”
* * * *
“G.”: Re (8., 30/'6/’00) concerning the
briar pest. Does not the blackberry do greater
damage ? On Bulli Mountain, Illawarra, it has,
in great tangled masses 20ft. high, overrun hun-
dreds of acres of good land, spoiling many selectors’
and farmers’ holdings. It has blocked and
diverted many bush-tracks, and has so encroached
upon even Govt, roads that in some places two
vehicles can hardly pass. Neither grubbing nor
burning will kill it off, and but for the fact
that it, like that other pest (the rabbit), can be
turned to good account, numerous holdings would
have been abandoned through it. City jam-
factories now buy scores of tons of Bulli black-
berries every season at good prices. It is a shock-
ing thing to see the burly miner-out-of-work have
to take to blackberry-picking, but the game serves
to keep his body and soul together during a bad
time.
“A.E.C.” on the eradication of briars
“G.,” B. 30/6/’00)
Grubbing means hard, continuous labor, but “ bulloek-
ing,” besides being much easier, is more effective, if done
when the ground is soft, as after heavy rain. Required 6
or 8 bullocks, a strong 12ft. chain with a hook on one end
and a ring on the other, and a species of boat-hook for
working the chain around the briars. When the chain has
been attached to the briar as close to the ground as pos-
sible, bullocks are “ hooked ” on, and, in a twinkling, out
comes the bush, with so much root (much more than the
best grubbers get) that generally nothing remains to be
done but to tackle the next. On an alluvial flat from
which hundreds of bushes were taken in this way, there
were only one or two trifling root-recoveries, and though
several years have since elapsed, the ground is entirely
free from briars.
9 9*9
Harry Stockdale to “H.G.” (8., 14/7/’00);
Horses with peculiar formation generally
with low withers, more than ordinary power
of belly-distension, and a mean “ brisket ” —can at
times get rid of saddle, bridle and girth—girth re-
maining buckled and unbroken. I once had a
hackney mare that could buck out of saddle, even
when a surcingle was added to the girth, and, by
some peculiar wriggle, slip the crupper also; and
I have known other horses do the same. A fall
with the saddle is often a very ugly one; you
come down so helplessly, and, in the majority of
cases, get trodden-on or kicked by the horse,
which generally lets fly a parting shot at the hated
gear.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —None of your critics of
that ploughing sketch mentioned that the plough,
as depicted, turns its furrow to the left, an
arrangement which I have never yet seen. Syd-
ney Art Gallery also has a picture in which the
driv.er of ploughing bullocks is on the “off” side,
which would hardly be so called if that were the
driver’s usual position.—B. [Other letters to simi-
lar effect.]
“ Pascoe ” : Re turtle re-turning (“ Long-
hurst,” 8., 5/5/’00). A turtle cannot re-turn itself
on a hard (or if level) on any surface. It can do
so, however, on a sandbank with a slight incline.
Mechanically working its flippers as protest against
unusual position, sand will be scooped away on
the lower level, forming a hollow, into.which one
side of turtle gradually sinks till final kick does
the business. Also re Rougetnont’s alleged riding
and steering of turtles. Niggers out in canoes,
without turtle spear, sometimes come across a
sleeping turtle. One man will then jump either
beside or under the reptile and grasp its neck and
push up, thus forcing it to or keeping it on the
surface till his mates assist him to turn it over and
secure it.
“ Outpost ” : Re-
cently saw two mag-
pies tryig to drive a
mopoke (genuine ca-
primuigus—not the
Boobook owl) out of
the fork of a tree near
their nest. The dis-
mal bird did not at-
tempt to flee—pro-
bably on account of
its defective diurnal
vision but every
time the magpies,
screeching like
fiends, would swoop
at the entrenched
enemy, the latter
would menace them
with fiercely - snap-
ping beak, until at
last the falling of
night gave a Water-
loo ending to the
affair.
“ Way back ” : I
recently spent about
a week in a little
place on the Barcoo,
which rejoices in no
fewer than six pubs.,
and has drunks reel-
ing about its streets
all the time. I asked
a publican how this
was. “Oh!’’replied
he, “it doesn’t take
much to make ’em
drunk. I can give a
man two drinks and
he’ll be drunk all
day ! ” One man told
me he’d spent £54 in
five days; another,
£6oinaweek. Why
are there not inspec-
tors to deal with
these poisoners and
robbers, who grow
fat on such poor
devils ?
4 Wooh : There is on the Clarence a
small sugar-mill-owner who employs Kanakas and
Hindoos m preference to whites. Recently a
West Indian quadroon who applied to him for em-
ployment was told, “ I don’t employ white men.”
The quadroon then went to the Col. Sugar Co.’s
manager, and was
told, “we don’t
employ black
labour.” Thecul-
lud gemman then
wrathfully ex-
pressed himself as
follows: “I not
black enough for
old , and not
white enough for
blanky company ?
What sort ob
blanky country
dis ? ” Then he
went off to look
for an employer
who didn’t object
to shandygaff.
• * *
“ Derford ” :
He tree - climbing.
Outside your own
door, t'other day I
saw a telegraph-
line-man climb a
two-foot post with
the aid of two
lengths of f-inch
manila each wit'
a hook on one ent
and an ordinal}
stirrup on the
other. Slung one
around post,
hooked it, and stood in stirrup, and so on up to
top, while hundreds of people gazed open-mouthed
at a simple little thing that beats the “ notching ”
blackfellow hollow.
• • • •
“ W.M.F.” : The lady-porcupine does lay
eggs—one at a time ; the integument, as with
reptilian eggs, being leathery instead of calcified.
The mother stows the egg in her pouch, which is
apparent only during this season. When the
youngster appears the mother removes the shell,
and the young one lies blind in the pouch. The
milk is not so much suckled as licked—the
“ porky,” like the platypus, not having true teats.
The young one remains in the pouch till three or
four inches long, when its quills begin to appear.
The mother then digs a place in the ground, and
leaves her progeny there to be visited at pleasure.
“Morg.” :
Re curiosity of
emus (“ Eller,”
B. 16/6/’00). I
have often at -
tracted emus to
within shot by
simply sitting at
the butt of a
tree and holding
a red handker-
chief on a stick
above the top of
the book I was
reading ; hut I
have vainly tried
to work the same
trick on other
birds and ani-
mals.
“Bathurst” : /e a horse slipping his girth,
&c. (8.7/14/’00). When a horse is bucking tl.e
saddle is balanced on a hump, and the exertion of
bucking tucks the horse up, i.e. shrinks his
stomach and intestines thus allowing sr.ddle and
girth to slip back. In the buck-jumping contest
at Bathurst Show last year, the crupper on one
horse broke, and ti e man and saddle went over the
horse’s head, the girth remaining buckled and un-
broken.
♦ * * *
“C.P.”: Re native names and their cor-
ruptions. “Gabo” is really the effort of the
aborigines to pronounce the already-given name,
“Cape Howe.” “Wam>«>,” a place 40 miles west
of Port Lincoln (S.A.), should be called Warmw
(gum-trees), because the last gums for 1060 miles
along the west coast are found there. There are
hundreds of similar corruptions—the first man to
hear the native name being usually a bushman
with no ear.
“P.H.C.”: Noteworthy that the Aus-
tralian aboriginal names of birds and animals
generally have a similarity in sound to their notes
or cries—have natural “ onomatopseia, ” in fact.
Water-wagtail Dirri-dirri
Crow Wa-a-gan
Laughing Jackass Kooka-burra
Oaprimulgus Mor-pawk
Sand Piper Billy-joo
Wood-duck Goonarroo
Red-legged whistling duck .. .. Gib-a-yoon
Bronzewing pigeon Wabba
* * ♦ *
“ Outpost” : When bike-touring a remote
Upper Murray region lately, I dismounted to ask
my way of a person in orthodox flannel and moles
felling a tree in a paddock near the road ; but, as
I scaled the fence, the worker dropped the axe and
went over to where a coat was lying with a bundle
on it. And presently I was thunderstruck to see
the axe-person sit on the ground, take up the
bundle, unbutton her flannel shirt, and proceed to
give baby its natural nourishment. I fled incon-
tinently, not even looking back to see if my retreat
had made the lady aware of my presence. Fur-
ther on I learned that she is the bread-winner,
husband being a hopeless cripple. She, however,
only wears the trousers to work in.
* * * *
“ Matabele ” : In answer to “N.Y.A.”
About 12 years ago, at Berowra Creek, I shot the
biggest goanna I have seen or heard of. Mea-
sured him with gun-barrel, sft. 2in. long, standing
about 18in. high at head, with fore legs (which
ADVICE BY THE WAY.
THE GOOD CLERGYMAN : “ You man, pick up those reins. If that animal
were to bolt and break your neck, you’d be more careful in future.”
specially attracted my attention) about 12in. in
circumference. First saw him in the water, where
he was quite at home, and thought I had struck a
little alligator. While on goannas : As a young-
ster, I lived out from Picton, thick scrub around,
and the plentiful goanna ate egg and chicken
wholesale. One day, got a great fright on
seeing a 4ft. goanna with a fowl’s wing
protruding, fan-shape, from his mouth. It
seemed to me that, after swallowing the rest of
the bird, the elbow of the wing had jammed in his
throat. Anyhow, he got away into the scrub
before I had sufficiently recovered from my
astonishment to investigate.
* * * *
“ Cairnsbrook ” : Here at Widgiemooltha
W.A., we have thousands of crows. ( “ Widgee,”
many; “mooltha,” a crow.) I have never yet
found a crow’s nest, nor do I know of anybody
who has discovered one between here and the S. A.
border. Have seen lots of nests in Yic. and
N.S. W. Any reader explain this mystery ?
* * • •
“ Scotty ” : All the recent press talk about
the contingenteering Bushman’s handiness and
resourcefulness is tommy-rot. I also was at
Langwarrin, and, as far as I know, the men there
were more and better bushy than the Cornstalk
lot. I don’t mean “bushman” in its ordinary
acceptation; that term is applied to timber-
getters in general, except when tracking, muster-
ing, overlanding, or Major-Mitchelling is the sub-
ject. But the horse-breaker, drover, station-hand
(mounted), kangarooer, brumby-runner, or mail-
rider is not in the same street as the bullocky,
groom, rabbiter, and the generally-useless, in the
matter of wrinkles. Granted they can ride, and
that the dingo and ’roo-scalper can shoot; where
are they when stranded ? They can’t cook beyond
damper and boiled meat; they can’t really make
tea; they are beasts when short of tobacco; and
they are abominably selfish compared to the man
with a team, a mate, and a road to meet people
on. They don’t read, and never have anything to
say. That, ye “patriotic” idiots, is what you
imagine to be the material of your contingents.
But the contingenters are a better sort, even the
yard-stick soldiers who got others to “pass their
riding.” Cockneys and other costers make good
soldiers ;so do country louts. Whereas, the most
intractable, conceited, impossible recruit in a
cavalry regiment is the man brought up amongst
horses. Now then ; my scalp is ready !
* * * *
“ Tacke ” : Re aboriginal tree-climbing
(8., 26/5/’00). Forty years ago, when I was a lad,
the blacks used a tomahawk and a pointed piece
of iron, about £-in. thick and 30in. long. When
chopping out the hole for the big toe they held on
to the iron bar, and when the hole was finished,
the tomahawk was driven into the tree and the
bar taken out and fixed further up, and so on.
The trees were eucalyptus, soft-barked and tall
and straight.
* * * *
“P.H.0,” : Re tree-climbing by the Aus-
tralian blacks. It is not generally known that
there is a race of men in the Indo-Chinese regions,
THE BROKEN DOVE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How did you break yourself, Birdie f What brought
you
So still on the ground where I never had sought you 1
Were you tired and .fell with no playmate to tend
you f
Ah! never mind, Dovey, for Dada will mend you.
My Dada’s so good at all that; you remember
He built this great arbor of vines last December,
And the cot you flit out of, the green peas to gather;
One little white bird isn’t much for my father.
It’s not long to wait, dear; the shadows are falling;
Far down in the swamp there the curlews are calling;
Mamma by the gateway is smiling and humming,
And that’s how I know that my Dada is coming.
Supposing— supposing!, though Father is clever—
That somehow—he can’t make you fly again ever ;
Supposing . . . there’s something . . . that no one
can lend you
I won’t ci y; I know that my Dada can mend you!
CONSTANCE CLYSR.


When you treat a friend do not offer him
anything counterfeit. Helidon Spa has many
imitators, but none possess the valuable properties
which have won for it the public’s approbation.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 17-3
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
why
W€
PO
* ENGAGEMENT RINGS
As Well as they are Done in London.
BECAUSE . . .
We Buy the Gems Uncut.
We Mount our own Ring’s.
We thus save Two Profits : the Mounter’s arid the Wholesaler’s.
We have a very large Stock of Uncut Opal, bought on the fields by our own buyer.
We are Large Exporters of Australian Gems. WE SELL FOlt CASH ONLY.
Superb Emerald and
Diamond King, £22 .Os.
We have perhaps the most Exquisite Stock
of Gem Riivjs in Australia, and it affords
us pleasure to send Goods on approval.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
VICE-RECAL
JEWELLERS
23 Hunter Street (Only), SYDNEY.
Peculiar Experience of a Farmer’s Wife.
A farmer’s wife’s life may be thought regular and
devoid of incident, but for 17 years the life of
Mrs. Hannah Eliza Nevin, the wife of a farmer
residing at Oakwood, Inverell, has been so full of
peculiar incidents as to possess extraordinary
interest.
“I am 53 years of age,” she said when inter-
viewed, “and have lived in this district all my
life. TJp till 1833 I could always attend without
difficulty to household duties, but I then began to
suffer greatly from rheumatism in my hands and
fingers. First the fingers became numb and
wasted away. Then my joints swelled, and my
body and limbs ached all over. Later on shooting
pains came in my head causing intense headaches,
and my sleep was often broken. I consulted
doctor after doctor; they diagnosed my case as
chronic rheumatism, and neuralgia in the head,
but no treatment cured me. Then I tried an
electric battery, and many mixtures supposed to
cure rheumatism, but without effect. I read in a
pamphlet how Dr. Williams’ pink pills cured a
case resembling mine, and I commenced them.
A fter a few weeks I felt so much better that I was
encouraged to continue them, with the result that
a few boxes entirely cured me. The swellings in
the joints have gone, the fingers are not bent and
shrunken as before, and the pains have entirely
left me. I do not fear the Winter now, for my
system has been so strengthened that a change of
season does not affect me.”
Cold and damp do not cause rheumatism.
Rheumatism is caused by a vitiated condition of
the blood, and cold and damp then bring on the
pains. But Dr. Williams’ pink pills make rich
red blood and thus drive the foundations of
rheumatism and other diseases from the system.
By their direct tonic action they have cured
paralysis, consumption, locomotor ataxia, skin
diseases, lumbago, bronchitis, asthma, dyspepsia,
anaemia, and nervous disorders of men and women.
Sold by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co, Queen’s
Place, Sydney, six boxes fifteen and three, post
free, and by chemists and storekeepers—But mind
you ask for Dr. Williams’. Treatise free to all
who write.*
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
who need not the stone-axe to aid them in climb-
ing, nature having specially adapted them for
such feats. The men of this Moi race climb trees
like monkeys; and, in descending, apply the soles
of their feet to the bark. They have very accen-
tuated ankle-bones—suggestive of the spurs of a
cock—which aid them in climbing and descending,
and a, protrusion of the base of the spine—which
certainly looks like the remnant of a tail—is sup-
posed to be a further aid. There are compara-
tively few of this race in existence to-day, as the
neighboring nations seem to have taken a delight
in destroying these remarkable people, wl.o are
believed to have occupied, primitively, the whole
Indo-Chinese peninsula.
» * * *
“P.H.C.’ : lie aboriginal tree-climbing.
Our blacks can climb rough iron-bark trees with-
out cutting notches for the big toe ; but in the case
of a smooth gum one end of a piece of scrub-cane
is looped for hand-hold ; a notch is cut in the tree
and the cane passed round the trunk, the looped
end being held in the left hand and the other in
the right. The climber then puts his toe in the
notch, and gives the cane a hitch up the tree,
resting on the toe, while the cane keeps him from
falling backwards. The end of the cane held in
right hand is then either transferred to the left, or
held by the toes of the unoccupied foot till a notch
is cut as high as can be conveniently reached for
the next step. The cane is then again hitched-up
and the other toe placed in the notch —and so on.
The cane is sometimes passed round both tree and
man’s body,.the ends being held in one hand.
• * * 9
as the Narrabri train was dashing across
Breeza plain I’ecently, a gaunt old bullocky
jumped up and waved a red handkerchief. “ Did
you see my little bullicks down the line ? ” he en-
Juired when the train had been pulled up.” No ;
heard they were near Gunnedah though,” replied
the engine-driver. “Jump in and have a ride.”
The bullocky innocently jumped-in, but was sur-
prised when he was handed to the police at Gun-
nedah and fined £5 on the ensuing day for
illegally stopping a train.
* * + *
A new industry—of enormous possibilities
to the fertile imagination of the originator—has
just failed. A Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) farmer
was suddenly inspired with the notable
idea that, if brine would convert dead pork
into bacon, it should do the same
with the live article, and thus save immense
“ The Manoeuvres of Jane ,” at Melbourne Princess’. (Robert
Brough as Lord Bapchild and Mrs. Brough as Constantia
Gage.)
Photo, by Talma, Melb. and Sydney.
trouble. All the “grower” would have to do
would be to kill and clean the pig—and there
would be his bacon all ready bar the smoking.
But, alas ! the pig experimented upon gave up, on
the third day, an extremely briny ghost, and the
puzzled genius is still wondering where was the
weak spot in his theory.
* * • •
In some parts of Maranoa (West Q.) the
prickly-pear extends for miles, is six or seven feet
high, and would cost thousands to get rid of.
Draught, dingoes, marsupials, prickly-pear ! Who
wouldn’t “ squat ” on the Moonie River ?
“Hermes’
takes a tram ride
in Sydney:
’Tother night when
the rain was falling
by the hundred tons
I was bn a George-
street'tram. Nearing
King / a ’bus horse
wept down crash,
andf slid about 10yds.
aldng- the wooden
blocks ere managing
to stop. When he
fried to get up he
/dragged the other
’horse down too, and
they were right across
the tram-rai s. All
the electric trams
came hissing up and
formed a procession
about a mile long.
A big lorry loaded
with sheepskins tried
to crawl through the
narrow space left,
and got jammed, and
blocked more busses,
while fresh arrivals
behind piled up and
prevented anything
like a strategic move-
ment to the rear.
The people on the
pavement mostly
wanted to get to the
trams, and the only
way to do so was to
either climb over or
wriggle under the
’bus horses and
they didit. Those
w ho didn’t missed
the trams, as the horses got clear of the rails
before getting on their feet, and the tram-drivers,
anxious to make up lost time, started at top speed,
and sailed off leaving a cursing crowd watching
them helplessly. To ride down Oxford or Pitt on top of a
’bus is like shooting the maelstrom on a cork it is a vast
repetition of thrills.
Was in a George-street tram t’other morning. The
cautious driver slackened off steam every time he neared
a cross-street. A tall, dark passenger gibed at him and
asked him why the Dept, didn’t hire the cars for funeral
processions. The driver shook with anger, but kept his
lower jaw tight. Every few yards the tram had to stop
while lorries, loaded with high-smelling skins and ingots
of copper and cases of merchandise, hauled themselves
slowly out of the way. All these things go along George-
street, for it is the only street that goes right through
Sydney, and George-street is like unto the neck of a
bottle. The tall, dark m»n became frantic. He threatened
to get out and walk. The driver
still kept his lower jaw up firmly.
We stopped eight times between
the Cathedral and Market-street,
to let the huge drays crawl out
of our way. Then we had rather
a good time, and only met five
drays in 100yds. Suddenly, a
nice long reach of empty street
presented itself, and, egged by
the tall, dark passenger, the
driver “ let her go.” The wind
went whistling past our ears,
when suddenly, out of the wall,
as it were, a horse and cab
darted from a narrow lane, that
would disgrace Constantinople,
and, slipping on the streaming
blocks, went down all of a heap
right across our track. The
driver set his teeth, while his
face went white —there was a
suppressed yell on every lip, and
all hinds clutched wildly at
everything and anything. We
catne along on the wings of
lightning, and, just as we seemed
to spring at them, there was a
grating shock —and the outside
passengers spilt all over the
street. The tall, dark man
nearly knocked the car’s front
railing into next century. “He
picked himself up, and seemed
dubious as to whether he should
laugh or cry. The driver broke
out into a furious bark : “ You
wanted her let go, and now,
you, see wotcher got! Serve you
blanky well right, yer for a
howling fool ! I’d have been
reduced by Is. 6d. a diy and put
back to conductor, if I’d bumped
’em ! ” The tall, dark man felt
that he was in the|wrong, and he
apologised and tendered some
coin, but the train-man refused
it indignantly. Evidently, he
was really angry !
“Fancy Free” : Maori-
land Chief-Justice Stout’s
decision that a man is not
drunk so long as he is cap-
able of asking for another
drink, is good. Lately saw,
seated in a chair in an up-
country pub., a very fuddled
gum-digger. His mate was
pouring some beer from a
bottle down the digger’s
throat, and, though unable
to stand, he was just capable
of swearing whenever the
drink spilled over his coat.
Not being speechless, he
could, of course, ask for more
drink ; in fact, I heard him
do it in language I wouldn’t
like to repeat. Yet, accord -
ing to Chief-Justice Stout, he wasn’t drunk, and
he had a legal and moral claim for more whisky.
The Newtown non-sectarian orphanage at
Albury, founded 17 years ago, has in that period
received 255 children, and shows a record of only
one death in the institution. The orphanage is
conducted by the Sisters of Mercy, and receives
no subsidy from Govt.
In Camp: EVENING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Busk there was a whisper in the Trees
That fringe the water-way;
But now the spirit of the lonely bush,
Broods o’er the darkling bay.
Softly from stem to stern the ripples glide
In gleams of flickering fire,
As in our hearts for ever ebb and flow
The pulse-beats of Desire.
No sound disturbs the tenor of my dreams,
Save, through the gathering gloom,
Like cannon from a distant 'battle-field,
The muffled breakers’ ■boom.
Dimly, from out the night, ghost-faces shine,
Old loves, long long forgot,
And old-remembered kisses chill my lips
That once were burning hot.
A cheery hail resounds from shore to shore,
The ruddy camp-fire gleams,
“ Ahoy! Ahoy! What are you loitering for,
uy
H.B.S.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Teeri: Mixture of earthquake and afternoon-tea
declined... .E. (Tonwoom'ia) : Rather long, rather mild ;
and while there are so many papers to exaggerate the
faults of the working-man (he has plenty) Tub Bulletin
prefers to throw its weight on the other side... .S.P. :
Though the A.M.P. directors’course is legal enough, so
far as Tub Bulletin knows, it is a sinful waste of policy-
holders’ money in stamps. It is quite possible the Equity
Court would have something nasty to say on that proxy
question.. .. L. do B. : Essay on “ Life ” too vaguely like
spectw rushing through,fog... .Pukaki : Bulletin didn’t
say (JO/6/’00) that Jit. Egmont (Maoriland) was named
after the famous Count Egmont. It simply said the name
was Dutch —and it is. There is no English Lord Egmont,
as you allege, though there is such an Irish title. But
even it is transplanted Dutch, and dates from the time of
the Dutch invasion of Britain—or rather, shortly after it.
.... Doubt : Rear-Admiral Beresford is the Charley Beres-
ford who visited Australia with the Duke of Edinburgh.
Has no sons ; eldest daughter was born in ’79. He has
three younger brothers, born respectively in ’47, ’4B, and
’62 ; their names—William, Marcus and Delaval James.
Lord Charles Beresford has no sisters. He may have had
girls who wanted to be sisters, but Peerage gives no
record of them.... Dan : But then the Irijih in Australia
were never very strong on “ natives.” Dailey, to wit....
R.M.S. : Not good enough... .ILL.E. : Your amanuensis
was apparently a drunken beetle with the staggers.
The staggers are probably congenital ; but please
keep the amanuensis sober Puzzled : Thought that
dreadful old conundrum was dead. It is his son’s
portrait.... A. W. George : There is no such law. There
is no certain evidence that one such marriage would pro-
duce bad results as regards offspring, but families which
habitually inter-inarry seem to have a strong tendency to
degenerate.... B.N. : Query—Does the actress in question
always wear the same hat, or has she a stock of hats of same
pattern ? Can you positively swear to the age of the hat ?
. ...J.L.F. : Your cocksureness is not more painful than
your inaccuracy re Bertram Mackennal. It was Bernhardt
who helped (a iittle) to make the young sculptor famous
in London. Mrs. Potter lent him her town villa when he
was already a “ somebody.” C: An up-country goat
ate three bank-notes, and the fragments of two notes
were duly recovered from the animal’s interior after it
had been assassinated. Alas ! money is a great incentive
to crime.:.. A.T.M. : Never heard of Baden-Powell
“ shooting 40 Irishmen.” Haven’t you been hoaxed ?....
J.M.: Too many visible wheels going round,... A.P. :
Triolet wants more forcible expression ; sodoes “Libraries.”
... .Waxy : It’s all holes together.... Malamai: Pleasant
sketch ; a little light for us S.J.B. : It wants a better
poet than your bard to do justice to the clo.-ing of good
old John M’Kenzie’s political career.... Old Subscriber :
’Frisco Examiner, New York World—can’t easily get
single copies here... L.C. :We print one verse of your
Lord Roberts ballad, in the hope that it will inspire you
to send a hymn on the melancholy subject of Kruger—
“ Great gen’ral of the flag, whose labors never lag—
Your crowning, final conquests grandly won—
With thee we can condole, for grief that wrings your soul,
In having lost your brave and noble son.”
.. E.R.S.: Most of the commercial travellers are maniacally
Jingo and most valorous as far as talk goes, but the aver-
age drummer has too much discretion to “snatch the Bul-
letin from the hands of anyone he sees reading it in a
railway-carriage and throw it out of the window.” Such
things may be done when the drummer is very large in-
deed and the reader is very small and consumptive-look-
ing. .. .0.D.8. : We ourselves have seen in Sydney electric
trams travelling at quite 14 knots an hour T.W.R.
(Tas.) : Nothing could be done by writing Keoro :
Bulletin wants either interesting fact or skilful fiction.
It takes no stock in bald and clumsy lies dumped down as
“ humor” O. Kellow :As to auguries, what do you
make out of the fact that Australia’s first Gov. General is
a Scotchman ? J.M. :To accuse the engineer of making
money out of the men directly would be libellous. And
we have no opportunity of verifying your allegations....
D.M.S. (W.A.): Thanks John Carew : Nicely told.
Will print... Babzy : Yes, he has. Also he isn’t married
—yet A.B.C. : Yes, it was a cheap rhyme and you
have spotted it ... C.R.J.: Hansard reports the obscure
member, and gives the newspapers in his electorate a
chance of reprinting his speech. That’s how it works.. ..
P.H.O. : Does the Cornstalk teacher really talk like that ?
... .Louis M. : Dunno whether it is too ordinary a horse-
steal or a sufficiently unusual horse-steal The Mussel :
Begins we 11... .A. W.N. : Rather trivial.... Leonidas : Not
quite up J.R.K.: Pretty poor Gooramin : Dull
E.M.D. : If the Chinese question could swallow it, that
would settle the Chinese question... .Muddler :We won’t
deny the soft impeachment... .Pan : “ Church ” won’t do
as it stands... .Mabel: Sorrowfully returned.... J.E.C. :
Too amateurish Jack L. : If we “paid for original
poetry ” like that we would hear the nails being ham-
mered into our financial coffin.. . .E.H.H. : You are too
warm ;go out on the verandah and cool down... .R.C. :
Dead echoes Amb. G. : Boil that poem for nine hours.
O.O. : Oh, no! Vic. : If you can say something
new and bright about Gordon, we’ll print it.... A. D’y :
Unusable... .G.B. (Q.): Justice is satisfied S.R.M. :
Not up P.R. : Three more contributions like that will
entitle us to a front seat in Fox’s “ Book of Martyrs.”....
Neila: We also dashed it 0ff.... Zip: Can’t see that
merit C.H.L. (Melb.) : Thanks ; unusable Mulga :
No!....Mab S. : Sorry it won’t do W.B.M. : Have
heard of the Lynch who wrote a book, but have never
heard of the “ colonel of the 2nd Irish Brigade in the
Boer army.”... Milky White: Poor joke, made in Ger-
many Jim O’Flaherty: Declined with great fury
J.G.M. : Considering... .Biddy : Our bald head is bowed
to your reproaches, and the obnoxious initials shall be cut
off in their’prime.... Razo : Honest advice says, Drop
it!....Jim Crow: The young,lady is not likely to be
much of a musical advt. for this land of song William
(Ad.) : Hope to print 500 n.... Uloola : ‘ ‘ Cockie ” too long
and slow P.H.C.: “ Bushman ” doesn’t sound plausible
somehow... .A. D.B. : Don’t .care for poetical glosses
on classical motives. .*. .Judas : Not interesting—
J.D. : Not an amusing 1ie....A.5. (Melb.): “Old
Eller: Women do not (perhaps on account of their
opener head - gear) get bald so readily as men.
Still there are plenty of bald women; though, unlike
men, they always in that case wear false hair... .J.L :
“ There’s a lot of money lost through pride and senti-
ment.” The “sentiment” that objects to a swindle, for
instance ?.... A.D.: Yes, but you might as well credit the
Australian bullocky with the achievements of Shakespeare
or Bacon or Newton... .Fraulein : Graphic, though some-
what awkward. Will consider.. 0-P.Q.C.: “Voyager,”
first two verses good ; others spoilt by bad syntax
C.M.A. : Idea good ; but sketch would need too much re-
writing.


mn
The Premier has received the following cablegram from Mr. Chamberlain
“ German Government has requested permission to purchase horses and mules in
Australia for service in China. Her Majesty’s Government would be glad if
your Ministers will afford every facility in their power to agents for German Govern-
ment.”
“Farewell, farewell, my Arab steed !
Go forth in alien lands to bleed,
Or hap’ly die ’mid battle’s roar !
And we will meet — ah !—never more ! ”
“ Farrut/S] ,? e the w ° rd *
■tarevxll, my 4rab moke I ”
Days, months, a year sped quickly by ,
Some tinned stuff “ made in Germany ”
You here behold before him stands ,
He opens it with eager hands,
And when he’d got the cutter through it—
They met again, though jneither knew it!
THE SEPARATION OF DARBY AND JOAN, AS PRACTISED AT
PRESENT BY MR. BUMBLE, OF N.S.W. ALLEGED CHARITIES'
DEPARTMENT.
OLD AGE PENSION DEPUTATION TO THE
N.S.W. PREMIER.
Mr. Wm. Wood said that in'connection with this
scheme of old-age pensions, it would be a thing of the
past to have husband and wife separated —(applause)
—hut that provision would be made in connection
with this scheme in such a way that Darby and Joan
should be able to end their days together.”
(Applause, in which The Bulletin heartily joins.)
THAT CYPHER CABLEGRAM FROM CHINA.
true I"** tere ’ Jonathan ’ do J ou believe tllis is really
“Trew! "Why, every word of it; did you over
hear of an Murkin telling a lie !"
CARTOONLETS.


-ifi QaJ" JS-ipJ7
re/><tf r 7er'
faj ■Jo~'rfe /[eiiFAt
/?es/cte?Tl>f"rf)<r tyesly<\ *7 j
Cotife/'eyce.
bje cf~~. Our~
4'T*" /ye Keyfyo/e.
Jk'sKe'fclyeJ Vfe
. Ke'/eKeyd (^eoneyviewy
sfe/J 'ffron? fry nyourff^
'' "to",
m
°t Courci J,
\ i-jH S M k
*. I* Orfe*, J/ttM Wife-
fe*’!7 W will r ,„„
,KiWe.,.^
w
0 Ss <
V H
w 'll gif- I
vr
Iye^h7 e
c
v%\
% <t&
% %%i
Stis
x°*v v
o'
« C e *"
ts° &0 '
X' vxV o< V^
r Q\
i > o 11 *
<U . Ouk
«ib
■joui)<? 'ityu? is 90 r’exSoj?
'n\'j °b«
*r
MISS JONtJ
SPiNsrtß.
WMITt-WORK
DONE-
Mr. TRENWITH said that Mr. Madden
should have been aware, when he made
ft-is feeble little joke about the bed that
women should rock, that there were many
thousands of women in Victoria who had
to earn their own living—(cheers)—who
had no husbands, and who, under the cir-
cumstances of the country, had been de-
n j. , opportunity of rocking the
cradle, however much they desired it.
Every day woman was being called upon
to extend her industrial operations, to
enter into new avocations of industry, to
obtain a living, and the difficulty—which
jMr. Madden seemed to think should be
•maintained—of small wages for men, was
[increasing, and making - i't less, agreeable
[and less possible for men &nd women to
marrv. A
£ Ebffir
Our
'tipt -sf< Rev *-
I o*> wa^s
, oj'
O. , 'So.r of-
V C
/CiXrderfS trjorj^ey^
2\*>& o%er *por*\
i*7 V+"
%
7
i*7
k*>*y
"jiojje KsS s\>i*?sJfr : - /A!?' 'f 1
otjls s on 7 e "to
i* i+:“ 7
t K}w. —\/«11, low's \
\ W *y" „
u~O. Styes ? % .
yovv> /our^ }
| orb Hof* foot) : ——-
cm you* .
Lf*Ws*> Ap- Prxy 4o*f^ilT
MELBOURNIAN A.


Handsome 4 Useful Wedding Presents.
Call and See our Displayed Showrooms.
An Up-to-Date Show.
We lleplate Old Silverware Equal to New.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oal£e BASKET, chased, 18s 6d ; plain, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, £2, and £2 10s.
We guarantee the quality.
Send for illustration.
A. SAUNDERS.
‘GENT’S FRIEND,” Letter Book, Pure Solid Silver-
mounted, 15a, 20s, 255. A Useful Present,
Ruby JAM, 12s 6d and 15s 6d, Pure Silver-
plated. Guaranteed Quality.
Send for Price Book.
LADIES’ FKIEND.
Pure Silver-mounted, 18s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Floral BISCUIT, first-class,
20s, 22s 6d, 255.
LADIES’ FRIEND,
Silver-mounted, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak Biscuit, pure SilTM'
plated Mounts, 16s 6d.<
Fluted Bands, 20sa
Shield only, 12s 6a,
FLOWER STANDS.
15s 6d pair.
Other styles, 10s, 12s od, 20a.
Pure Silver-plated.
COFFEE POT
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Metal Silver-plated BUTTER,
25s ; similar, very neat and pretty,
20s, 22s 6d.
Pure Silver Manicure SET, First-class,
20s ; smaller, 12s 6d.
TEAPOTS.—Pure Silver-plated, First-class, 80s.
Other styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255. Send for Book of Patterns
Pure Silver-Mounted PURSES, 16s, 20s.
Cheap Styles, 6s, 7s 6d, 10s.
Pure Solid Silver PENCILS (Cedar), 3s 6d and 4s 6d.
Old Plate Made Equal to New.
Estimates Given . • Send Your Address.
4 o’cltck TEA SET, with Covers, Gilt inu le, pure Silver-plated.
20 Years’ Guaranteed.
£2lOB, worth £4 4s. Other styles, M, £2, £3, £4.
Ladies!
KINDLY CALL AND
OUR DISPLAY.
Twmm,
I Pz :< ? '■ 'V&0&&
• r.-.&S- T~- ■ - ' -v \r?,
■.■■'■• •' ■.■■ . "■•?.■ ■
1 • - r - ' ':!p!^~:
.-'• ■. |
2 l’ure Silver BRUSHES and OOMBS, in Silk Oaee,
£2lss. Special Value. Send for Illustration,
m
H
w
TEAPOT.
SUGAR, with Cover.
MILK, with Cover.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Electro Silver-plated TEA and COFFEE, £5 ss.
Other styles, £4 4s, £6 6s 6d, £8 Bs, £lO 10s. Send for List.
ENTB.EE DISHES, 4 Pieces, Pure Silver-plated, £2 17s 6d.
Others charge you £4 4s. TRY A. SAUNDERS.
•mm,
.|« ‘ “ w'
T^f r -
-2 Butter KNIVES, Pearl Handle, 15s 6d. Cheaper style,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d. Send for List.
CRUETS—4-bottle Square Bottles, 21s.
Similar, 255, 30s, 355.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
EGO CRUETS, 30s, 355, £2. Cheap,
20s, 265. Pure Silver-plated.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated COAL
SCUTTLE, 16s 6d, 20s, 255.
FLOWER STANDS.
Latest Style, 21s pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER, as above, 15s 6d ; Large
Size, 20s. Guaranteed Quality.
Pure Silver-plated BUTTER, 8s 6dL
Special Value.
is*
Silver-plated SERVIETTE RINGS, 8s 6d.
Pure Silver, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
Ruby Glass SALTS and SPOON, 10s 6d pair.
Other styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 o'clock TEA SPOONS and TONGS, 12s 6d;
Other Styles, 15s, 20s, 265.
Spoons, without Case, 6s, 7s 6d, 10s half-dozen
Pure Solid Silver, in Silk Case, 25s ;
With 3os and 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 6 Bottle Design,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK, 10s 6d. Other Styles,
8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s. Pure Silver-plated.
Guaranteed Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hot Water Tea KETTLE, 355;
Embossed, £2. Others charge
£2 10s and £3 for same article.
We Guarantee the Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.—Spoons and Forks—Solid Nickel Silver Table Spoons or Forks,
4s half-dozen; Dessert, 3s; Tea, Is 6d. Pure Silver-plate (on Hard White Metal)
Table Spoons and Forks, 12s half-dozen ; Dessert, 10s ; Tea, 5s 6d. These are Guar-
anteed to give every satisfaction. Dinner and Dessert Knives, 4s 6d and 9s 6d half-
dozen, the very best Sheffield Steel. TRY THEM.
A. SAUNDERS.—Butter KNIVES, pure Silver-plated, 2s, 3s, 4s
Pearl Handle, 3s 6d; Extra Mounted, 6s 6d.
Jam SPOONS, same price. Two in Case, 7s 6d and 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.—Pure Silver FRUIT KNIFE, 6a, 7s 6d, 10s.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, Large Size, S2s 6d.
Cheaper Style, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Jeweller $ Silversmith,
815 George Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station,
fiaupfig
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF
PRESENTS.


Heame’s Bronchitis Cure.
THEH
f A.MOUS RE3MIEDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION.
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OP ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken thin medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from, any form Bronchitis Cough Difficulty ofißroaAing; ”
Soreness in the Cliesfc, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is in^ a Y e » as r “ 3 ion to develoo Consul
folding in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to be© m It XeX sufficient
never been known to exist where “ Coughs " have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose i-s generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
REMEMBER THAT EVERY ’^^^HAS^S^OMINCEME]^' ANpSoNPuMFrroN^If EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. ft. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
‘DOWKIDGE’S’
‘AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
Minerva Tonic
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
Minerva Tonic
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
Minerva Tonic
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
Minerva Tonic
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
]re you Too Stout ?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe. Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALINC REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
D^IJPTO
(LIMITED),
(Lalne lllawarra), ml ear SYDNEY •
IUT A TTTI'OCf ATI
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
"g? 1 -r~
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND ,
ILL AW ABBA”
..BRAND OF. .
SOFT LEAD
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
RICHEST PRICES PAID lOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
Eor all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
TE-DESTROYING LIVER TORPOR
EXACTiSIZE
OFTHEBOTiXLE
*—A
KUTNOW’S
proved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
1
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap
sa
it
L 2
w ! '
4 London:'
41, FARRINGDON ROAD, E.C?f
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.*?
EXACT SIZE
OFTHEBOTTLE
When there is no Desire for Food there is Need of
KUTNOW’S POWDER, which Restores the Appetite by
Restoring Health and Activity to the Liver.
It matters little how the appetite is tempted, when inclination for food is gone little food is likely to be
eaten and assimilated, and, consequently, the body and brain are insufficiently nourished, and the usual languor
and insomnia, headache, nervousness, drowsiness, and craving for stimulants result. When the appetite for food
has been absent for any length of time it is evidenced by the complexion becoming sallow, dark blue rings form-
ing round the eyes, which become dull and sunken, and by various degrees of emaciation.
A repugnance for food usually arises from some derangement of the liver and other digestive organs, and
hence, in order to recover a vanished appetite, it is necessary to restore the liver, stomach, and kidneys to a
healthy working condition. They must be cleansed and strengthened, and nothing accomplishes this better than
Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder, which possesses all the purifying, healing, medicinal properties
of the noted health springs of Europe, minus their drastic, lowering, nauseous features.
Kutnow’s Powder restores lost appetite by removing the cause. In other words, it expels the impure
matters which have choked up the system and rendered the digestive and assimilative organs disordered and
sluggish, and restores the entire body to a clean, healthy, vigorous condition.
Kutnow’s Powder has a healing, cleansing, and strengthening effect on all the digestive, assimilative, and
excretory organs, neutralising acidity, increasing nutrition, purifying the blood, and enabling those that use it to
work harder, sleep sounder, and enjoy life better.
Take Kutnow’s Powder, and the sick headache, lassitude, nervous exhaustion, depression, low spirits,
drowsiness, biliousness, and the various other symptoms of a disordered digestion will disappear, and you will
receive a new store of strength, health and vigor.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all Reliable Chemists and
Medicine Vendors. See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer Leap), and the autograph
facsimile signature, “S. KZJTN OW & CO., Ld.,” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness.
Insist on “KUTNOW’S,” and firmly refuse substitutes. They may be worthless, probably injurious.
PROPRIETORS— —^
S. KUTNOW & CO., LdL, 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.G.
PROPRIETORS IN U.S.A.
KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New York City.


The Acetylene Miners’ Lamps, introduced by
the Acetylene Gas Co. of Australia, Ltd., have proved a
great success g,nd are now largely used in the mines
throughout the colony. The company has lately been
rushed with orders for lighting up gold-mining dredges
owing to the many advantages offered- by the light for
that purpose. It would be well for mine and dredge
owners to ascertain full information as to cost, etc., from
the Head Office of the Company, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
The PUREST WHISKEY
in the WorlcJ . . .
geo. Roe * Jo.
JOHN MEAGHER & GO.,
• Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
|HAIfPEHH¥
"\r
<3-0 1-0 HET.T-
1U GLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/-- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
. Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE So SONS, Brisbane Q'land
To preserve
healthy homes
use
LIFEBUOY
ROYAL
DISINFECTANT
SOAP
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEV # CO.,
I'urniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 Georga Street, Sydne
Have alwaj's on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-at
POLITICAL
POINTS
Kenneth Mackay’s “Yellow Wave” begins
to roll, and Armageddon seems within measurable
distance.
Ex-Premier Dawson, of Queensland, is
already spoken of as the leader of an all-Aus-
tralian Labor-party in the Federal Senate.
The joke of the month in Queensland is
the plaint of Burns, Philp and Co. that they were
slighted in the matter of a certain Govt, tender.
This is real humour.
Alfred Deakin struck a quaint figure of
speech when he told a Melb. Town Hall crowd
that the local Parliament would have to be their
political skirt while the Commonwealth was their
political toga.
That spineless body, Q. Civil Service
Board, will probably snuff out from November
(only 10 months’ salary was voted last year). The
Board had a stiff backbone for small abuses, but
the very big ones found it as blanc-mange.
Thomas Glassey absented himself from
the llquse on the day of the opening of Q. Parlia-
ments?:" His enemies allege that his absence was
due to'the fact that he couldn’t get anybody to
introduce him. His friends, however, corrected
the error by explaining that he simply couldn’t
come because his new top-hat wasn’t ready.
The academic discussion as to where the
Gov.-General shall plant himself while signing
official documents between now and the establish-
ment of the Federal Govt, suggests that all Acts
of Parliament should wind up with a statement
“that everything in this Act is to be taken in a
commonsense way.” Then if a dispute arises let
it be put to a jury of 12.
The Victorian schools 'were allowed to fall;
into disrepair to save revenue in the days when
revenue was desperately scarce. Now that revenue
is more plentiful the M'Shiels Ministry thinks of
repairing them—with £lOO,OOO of loan-money !
In financial matters this country has about as
much conscience as a South American republic or
a nigger kin£ on the African coast.
A TOUGH GARMENT.
ISAACTON : “ Vy you didn't make a sale to dot
yustomer? ”
NEW SHOPMAN: “ He wanted a pair of moles,
avid we had none to suit him.”
ISAACTON: “ Veil, vot aboud it! Ven I was a
young man, if a yustomer vanted moles and I
got none to suit, s'elp me, I sell him a cross-
cut saw. You'f got to learn peezness.”
More rot ! “N.S.W. Premier Lyne has
promised to adopt a suggestion by Dacey, M.L.A.,
to erect some lasting structure to mark the land-
ing of the Governor-General at Circular Quay.”
In the wordsof Wallington, “ Better not.” Better
wait till a memorial can be erected at the spot
where the last Governor-General stepped off Aus-
tralian soil and left us to govern ourselves without
any flummery.
The attempt to enact in S.A. that a mem-
ber of the Assembly shall not forfeit his seat
through absence if he is away from the country
helping to shoot Britain’s enemies was lost, despite
Govt, support. This looks like another slump in
the contingent business. When it gets down to
punishing the Jingo M.L.A. by forfeiture of billet
and salary when he goes contingenting, a frost
must be setting in.
Frank Farnell, ex-M.L.A., proposes that
N.S.W. candidates for the Federal Parliament
should be provided with a free railway-pass apiece
while canvassing their proposed electorates. The
writer doesn’t actively approve or disapprove. He
merely states that he has some business to do
around Bourke, Cobar, and Tenterfield about that
time, and he reckons it will be a great deal cheaper
to be a Federal candidate than to pay his railway-
fare.
Big John Forrest, despite his solemn
declaration to the contrary, will be a candidate
for the Federal Parliament if Westralia makes up
her mind to join the union, and, judging by his
sudden and complete conversion from parochialism
to nationalism, Hackett, M.A., editor of the
West Australian and bear-leader to Forrest, has
his eyes in the same direction. Hackett in ’77
stood in the Radical interest for Sandridge against
Chief Justice Madden.
“ Kiwi ” from Maoriland :
Another sample of “ British fairplay ” as taught in
Maoriland. Hogg, M.H.R. for Masterton, has been for
years a member of the Reporting Debates Sessional Com-
mittee of the House af Representatives. This year he has
not been appointed there, the Govt, preferring to fill his
place with a member who is known to be in favour of dis-
missing Grey, the chief of the Parliamentary reporting
staff, now on trial before the committee for daring to
write disapproving of the great capitalistic shambles in
S’Africa. Hogg openly declared his belief that Grey, as a
free-born Britisher, had a right to express his views, and
it was apparently thought better to replace him by a man
who could be relied upon to vote for Grey’s dismissal. A
clear case of bench-packing.
It was last week cabled that the Parliamentary
committee had recommended Grey’s dismissal.
G. W. Russell’s Bill authorising women to
sit in Maoriland Parliament and to hold all public
offices has just been rejected by the House of Rep-
resentatives. Old Capt. Russell forgot his usual
ladylike manners over the measure, and denounced
its supporters as “ sloping-shouldered, soft-
hearted, and broad-hipped creatures, more like
women than-men,” and G. W. Russell indignantly
replied that his hips could stand inspection quite
as well as the captain’s if they both had their
clothes off. The captain didn’t offer to undress in
the refreshment-room and settle the question.
The Broad-hipped Brigade mustered 25 votes, and
was beaten by a majority of only five, so its time
may not be far off after all.
M.L. House of Representatives has decided
to sack the chief of Hansard staff for publicly
expressing the opinion that there was a Boer as
well as a British side to the.war. When a shabby
little act of tyranny like this is done the defence
always is: “What other country would allow a
public servant to openly declare his belief in the
justice of an enemy’s cause?” Possibly no other
country would. But that argument merely
amounts to saying: “We are not any meaner or
more tyrannical than Dutchmen, Russians, Por-
tuguese, Spaniards, Turks, niggars and sundries.”
And that isn’t much of a defence. The Briton’s
constant claim is that he is vastly better than all
these ; not that he isn’t any worse.
The M’Lean Govt., having beaten the
motion of want of confidence,
has now a working majority
to tide it on to the general
election. But, as a Liberal
Ministry, it occupies the
uncomfortable position of
being dependent on the
Tories for its daily bread.
The Opposition has neither a
leader nor a policy, and the
disruption of parties is in
favo£ of the present Govt.
A hew Graham Berry would
soon be the uncrowned
king of Victoria, but
they don’t grow Graham
Berrys now. And they
don’t deserve to, con-
sidering how they are
treating the veteran in his
extreme old age.
Maoriland Govern-
ment proposes to adopt an
idea that The Bulletin has
long advocated : National Option in
place of Local Option in liquor
matters. The question of the same
public-houses, or less public-houses,
J>r no public-houses at all will thus be
settled for the whole country by refer-
endum, and if the no-public-liouse
party wins, the undermining three-
penny beer will cease all over Maori-
land. That will be an experiment
worth trying, and worth witnessing.
Local Option, at the best, only meant that
a man aad to fetch.his. beer from- the next town.
It wasn’t Teetotalism—only Pedestrianism.
A N.S.W. Leg. Assembly return shows
the amounts in fees and allowances paid to mem-
bers of the Public Works Committee during the
present session. One member (Laborist
Watson) drew “perks ” at the rate of nearly £4OO
a year, altogether apart from his £330 salary.
Parliamentarians propose to permit a member of
the Federal Parliament to sit also in the local
Legislature. If this idea is carried out it will be
possible for a member holding the dual position
to wriggle on to the P.W. Committee, in which
event the lucky man would look down pityingly
upon a member of a State Ministry whose salary
would not total up to his, and who would have to
work three times as hard for the money.
“ Via ’’ : Compared with the purblind city
fathers (and grandmothers) of Brisbane Municipal
Council, Dogberry was a perfect Solon. Some
years back they had the chance of buying for a
few thousands the rights and assets of the mori-
bund tramway co., but foolishly let it slip ; to-day
that co. and its accrued rights are probably worth
a million. Now, with this shining example before
them, the Council purposes bartering away the
city electric - light privileges for 42 years to a
private co., which generously offers the city in
return a few lamps free for the concession. A few
years hence the Brisbane Dogberries will probably
find that they have fooled away another million.
Then they will no doubt try to give away their
bridge and their river to a syndicate.
A PROCESSION OF THREE.
Thousands of British soldiers have already died
of fever in S’Africa, and over 12,000 have been
invalided home. — CABLE.
Hutchison, M.L.A., of South Australia
has a measure before Parliament providing that
every adult male employed by S.A. Govt, or on
S.A. Govt, contracts shall receive not less th&n7s.
a day. The adult female person appears to be un-
accountably omitted. Considering that she is
often, in the Education Department for instance,
expected to do a man’s work for half a badly-paid
ma,n’s wage surely she wants a minimum wage
quite as much as the superior animal who smokes
and says “damn!”
Brisbane Telegraph’s latest tears and
lamentations are to the effect that the near ap-
proach of Federation has blighted Queensland’s
credit in England, hence its most recent London
loan will cost it £3 10s per cent, per annum. The
poor little paper may dry its eyes and cheer up.
Before Federation was mooted the cheapest loan
Queensland ever floated in London cost about £3
13s. per cent. So, apparently, the approach of
Federation has already lifted up the broken credit
of Queensland a point or two.
N.S.W. Public Service Tender Board deals
with stores amounting to about half-a-million
annually, and its work has hitherto been aided by
the advice of the chief officers of the departments.
These officers used to receive fees for this help,
but lately the occasional guineas have been stopped.
It thus comes to pass that the heads of depart-
ments refuse to give further advice, and the Board
laments. One highly-salaried official says his
time is too limited to allow of his giving any of it
to the Board. But he gave it while he got fees.
The new Leader ofQ. Opposition, William
Browne (otherwise “Billy” Browne), resembles
the late leader, Anderson Dawson, in being the
possessor of a considerable fund of shrewd humor.
Is also similar to Dawson in the matter of a con-
stitutional chest-weakness which often militates
against his political usefulness. Browne is popular
in the House and respected abroad. Is eminently
practical and eminently non-idealistic —the very
antithesis of the Paraguay-pilgrim type. . . .
Dawson’s resignation was a purely voluntary
matter: his Parliamentary colleagues speak of
him most cordially and kindly.
Shark ” . Attorney General Wise has
been away from Sydney for a fortnight—at time
of writing he was still absent. Meanwhile, his
official sanction is, by law, required to the filing
of a statement of claim in Equity praying an in-
junction and immediate relief. It is extremely
important that the injunction be granted at once,
but, as sanction must be personal, proceedings are
delayed for the A.-G.’s return, there being no
Solicitor-General to act for him. Is it not time
that the office of Attorney-General be made
non-political, and that he be compelled to attend
to his duties and earn the salary he receives ?
Yic. Premier M ‘Lean has been explaining
how ex-Premier Turner kept in office five years
and became the Right. Hon. George. Nobody
wanted office at the time. Patterson (Turner’s
rival) had died after being turned out. The
“boom” reaction was getting greater; salaries
had to be cut down and men retrenched, and there
was a likelihood that office at the time would
mean political death. “Both sides of the House
supported Mr. Turner,” says MLean. Of course
they did. Nobody wanted his billet till he had
made things pleasant—and then he was chucked
out. If there hadn’t been depression Turner
wouldn’t have kept office a year. But Hielan’
Mac. had his eye on the billet all the time.
Sydney Telegraph excuses Premier Lyne’s
small apologetic action in partially reforming one
out of Sydney’s 41 municipalities, and letting the
other 40 slide, and hanging up the idea of muni-
cipal consolidation indefinitely, on the ground
that:
At present many of the boroughs are altogether at
variance as to the desirability of establishing a large
council with great powers that shall be something on the
model of the County Council of London.
Are they ? It reads like a weary or incompetent
man’s excuse. Will the Lyiie Govt, draft a
measure for the consolidation of the 41 munici-
palities on a fair, workable and democratic basis,
and then submit it to a referendum of the inhabi-
tants of the 41 municipalities, and see if they are
at variance? The Bulletin ventures to bet it
will be accepted by them all. The councils are
certainly at variance, and there is disagreement
among the mayors, town-clerks, dog-catchers and
inspectors of nuisances—but that isn’t quit# the
same thing.
Most of the provisions of Vic. Factories
Act, notably the minimum-wage clauses, apply
only to Melbourne —this for some occult
reason known only to Fatman. There-
fore when Vic. Anti-Sweating League
was lately supplied with facts and figures
showing that a certain unnamed M.L.A.,,
representative of a country town, was
employing dressmakers for their first 12
mouths without wa/ex, it was perforce
compelled to reply that it could do-
nothing.
London Outlook proudly sug-
gests, as an idea quite new and
altogether its own, that, in view
of the enormous number of default-
ing trustees, a Public Trust Office,
with a State guarantee behind it,
should be established in England.
It says there is no such thing as
yet in existence, and it has laboriously
thought the idea out all by itself
in its own enormous think-reservoir.
And Maoriland not only thought
out the idea years and years ago, but
has been successfully running a Public
Trust Office for the best part of a
generation.
Sydney Sabbath Times, which seems to
delight in causing G. Republican Dibbs and others
of its pets to look absurd, makes that angry old'
man say last Sunday :
Those of our public men who allowed the provisions
regarding the Capital and the exclusion of New South
Wales to go in the Bill
OUGHT TO BE KICKED TO HADES.
I don’t care who they are. They should have stood up for
our rights, and, without them, declined to have Federa-
tion at all.
Considering that the Capital clauses in the Bill
deliberately include N.S.W., and exclude Vic-
toria, Queensland, and all the rest of the provinces,
this last snort from the profane leader of the
Cabbage-tree mob is as wanting in sense as it is in
good manners.
The state of shock affected by several
“ leaders of opinion ” over the novelties of N.S. W.
Attorney-General Wise’s Compulsory Arbitration
Bill argues a very limited acquaintance with the
economics of industry. Labor legislation is as
old as the British Parliament. The Statute of
Laborers of Edward 111. fixed a wages scale and
punished the employer who offered less and the
employe who claimed more. In 1800 an Act was
passed providing for arbitration between master
and man. Either side could demand arbitration,
and if either objected to the award, fine or im-
prisonment was imposed. In fact the endeavour
to settle disputes between employer and employed
by the machinery of a tribunal which can enforce
its decisions by fines and imprisonment, has for
centuries been considered to be within the sphere
of practical politics by leading thinkers in England;
and France.
T. M. Slattery, of Sydney, lawyer, poli-
tician and anti-Federalist, points out that State
Parliaments can’t enact that their members shall
be ineligible to sit in the Federal Parliament, as
the Federal Constitution gives no State power to
disqualify anybody from sitting in the Federal
Parliament. It is probably true —but it doesn’t
matter in the least. The States have power to
disqualify anybody they please from sitting in
their own State Parliaments. It is illegal
to enact that “a person sitting in the State-
Parliament shall not be a Federal member
Or candidate,” for that is imposing qualifi-
cations and limitations on Federal members. But
it is quite legal if it is put the other way: “A
Federal member or candidate shall not sit in the
State Parliament.” That is only putting re-
strictionson State members. One is-tweedledum,
and the other is tweedledee. Tweedledum is
unlawful.
A letter from Maoriland :
Exit John M’Kenzie. Perhaps one of the saddest
Houses for many years past greeted the reading of poor
Jock M’Kenzie’s valedictory letter to J. G. Ward, convey-
ing Iris resignation. I think it is one of the most intensely
pathetic documents ever read in M.L. Parliament. The
big, rugged, blundering, but able Scotsman whose fierce
hatred of land monopoly and its attendant injustices was.
imbibed.with his first view of a crofter’s eviction in his
native Highlands, writes from his bed of sickness, wasted 1
unto death, but still fiercely militant for his Land policy,
and bitterly bemoaning the fate that “ downed ’’ him in
the midst of fresh efforts for Land Settlement. Seddon
and Ward have for long- past taken the work off M’Kenzie’s.
shoulders and wished to continue this longer, but
M'Kenzie stubbornly and characteristically refuses. He-
pathetically observes“ The days have lengthened into
weeks and the weeks into months. Seddon is ill and I
will-not further hamper him.” He conveys an item of
news not generally known re a practice which might with,
advantage be copied by other Govts. When Ballance first
formed his Liberal administration the Cabinet deliberately
adopted the practice of going about freely among the people
partly that they might judge for themselves the needs of
a district, and partly that the people might freely speak
to them and see what manner of men they were—this in
contradistinction to the “ haw-baw standoffishness” of
previous Governments. Old John exultingly.adds, “ This
practice, whether right or wrong, has become established,
and I do not think any Govt, can change- it now.
The people have got used to meeting Ministers freely
and would resent any change that would make them,
inaccessible.” There is not the slightest doubt that M‘Ken-
zie has been the hub upon which the Land policy
of the present Govt, has revolved, and the weary hours he
spent mastering every little departmental detail relating
to his work have had a lot to do with his final breakdown.
He begs his colleagues to seriously consider the question
of appointing Ministerial Under-Secretaries to relieve
Ministers of detail work. He conveys a note of warning
to Ward, our present robust and energetic Pooh-Bah, who
has been bending Atlas-like under the present big Liberal
burden. The big Scottish chief who invariably entered
upon a debate with his Highland war-cry and a swinging
claymore, careless as to whose head he hit so long as he
could drive home his arguments to burst up big estates
and help closer settlement, will be sadly missed, and
there was scarcely a dry eye when his letter was read.


It is stated that the late R.C. Bishop
Lanigan (of Goulburn, N.S.W.) did not leave
enough money to pay for his funeral.
Bendigo, Vie., sent a characteristic
message to Lord Hopetoun:
Bendigo, the Pivot of Australian Federation, offers
heartiest congratulations your appointment.
And Bendigo branch of the A.N.A. solemnly
resolves —“That the idea on which Federation
has been carried to a successful issue emanated
from this branch.” Prodigious !
“D.C.L.,”
when applied to a man, is a high academic dis-
tinction. When applied to whisky, “D.C.L.”is
the highest distinction it can possess. “D.C.L.”
(Black Bottle) Scotch Whisky is perfect.*
The case of the girl M'Lean, who died
recently in the plague conveyance at Brisbane,
seems to have been a sad one. Her sister declares
that she herself had a much worse attack of what
appeared to be a bad, feverish cold, which in her
case was cured by simple household remedies.
The younger girl, who afterwards fell ill with
exactly the same symptoms, was a nervous and
delicate creature, and had always been frightened
of plague—which the doctor who was called in
pronounced her to be suffering from. When the
plague ambulance was brought the sick girl be-
came terribly affrighted, and told her sister
that she would die at once if put into the
dreaded conveyance. And, sure enough, she did
die —almost immediately after being placed in the
vehicle, but whether of fear or of plague is hard
to say.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Last week the N.S.W. Commercial Travel-
lers’ Association held its 16th annual dinner, the
president, Mr. G. C. Balls, in the chair. Gov.
Beauchamp was a guest, and in proposing the
president’s health, quoted from the association’s
organ, the Traveller (why not call it the Drum-
mer ?) :
Regret is often expressed by the business community
that Mr. Balls has not entered the political arena,
although he is gifted to a wonderful degree with a know-
ledge of political and social economics. Possibly it is
because of the degeneracy of our governing bodies that
he has held aloof, but this is an unwise policy, especially
when so much is at stake. It devolves upon such men as
George 0. Balls to stem the tide, and the neglect of this
duty to the country cannot possibly be condoned by a
sense of individual responsibility. The future under
federal unity is promising. Let us hope that such bodies
as the Commercial Travellers’ Association, with their in-
domitable pluck and perseverance, wisdom and honor,
will push forward their best men to grip the bull by the
horns, and thwart the plans of retrogression that hold
sway in our governmental centres.
“It devolves upon such men as George 0. Balls!”
How like a commercial-travellers’ organ !
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Q. Premier Philp says that his policy for
the coming session is the establishment of one-
man-one-vote and the building of lots of railways.
Where it won’t pay the State to build railways
private syndicates are to be permitted to do so.
Philp, in the guilelessness of his soul, actually
professes to imagine that where the State (which
can raise the money at 3| per cent.) can’t afford to
build a line a syndicate (which pays 5 per cent, or
more for its money) can afford to do it on the same
terms and can make money out of it.
S.M. Herald, on receiving the news that
the Rhodes crowd in S’Africa proposes to repay
Australia for its assistance in the war by robbing
it of some of the best (in a physical sense) of its
population, and is offering inducements to the
Contingenters to remain (some hundreds of the
Australian troopers have already joined the
Rhodesian police):—
The allowing of some thousands of our young men,
specially selected for their physical advantages, to be
lifted bodily out of the province and transported to
another continent was a result we certainly never con-
templated when we took in hand the patriotic business of
sending suitable men to South Africa.
Well, The Bulletin gets ahead of the S.M.
Herald there. It did contemplate that result.
That was why it proposed, when the first Contin-
gent was being formed, to give the unemployed
and the Domain dossers first show.
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd,
reports that local millers have made a somewhat bettee
demand for wheat during the week, and considerablo
quantities have been bought for shipment, chiefly t
Queensland. Still, although the demand is looking up,
prices are stationary. London reports, by cable, that the
Home market is slack, the weather favourable, and N.Z.
: long-berried wheat worth 30s. 6d. per 4961b5. This, on a
basis of 325. 6d. per ton freight, equals approximately
2s. lOd. per bushel f.o.b. which the co. considers satis-
factory. The co.’s sales have been chiefly ex-truck, and
quotations may be given as prime quality, 2s. lOd. to
2s. IOJd.; good quality, 2s. 9d. to 2s. 9£d.; pinched and
chick-wheat, 2s. 3d. to 2s. 6d. per bushel.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
Mr. William Cornish, late headmaster of
Balmain (Sydney) Public School, now promoted
to an inspectorship, stated at a banquet the other
day that he lost his father when young and had to
sell newspapers in the street. He is a Balmain
native, and received all his education there and at
Fort-street, Sydney.
Mr. A. H. Nelson, who for 33 years has
been in charge of South Grafton (N.S.W.) Public
School, mentioned, at a recent presentation to
him upon his retirement from the_ service, that
during all that time he had not missed a single
day at his post. Surely a unique record for
length of service in one school —and also for what
a Big Scrub Inspector used to call “total abstin-
ence from absence.”
To prevent Bubonic Plague wear Metzler’s
“ Protective Anklets,” a certain protective against
the access of vermin and disease germs from the
ground. They are worn by several members of the
medical profession, including doctors of the staff of
the Board of Health, and are worn also by menj-
bers of the N.S.W. Police Force on duty in the
plague-infected quarters of Sydney, Obtainable
from all first-class chemists or from Head Office
of the Proprietary, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
In an Eastern tale, the beautiful Princess
Babe-bi-bobu could not be married unless the
happy man was without scar or blemish, and as
her lover was marked with certain moles it was
necessary to determine whether moles were to be
considered as scars or blemishes. The question,
after much discussion, was referred to the mufti.
These sages handled it, and turned it, and twisted
it, added to it, multiplied it, subtracted from it,
and divided it, debated it fasting and full, nodded
over it, dreamt on it, slept on it, woke up with it,
analysed it, criticised it, and wrote 48 folio
volumes, of which 24 said moles were blemishes
and 24 said they were not. The only conclusion
which they could come to at last was that moles
were moles : and the beautiful princess remained
unmarried. In like manner Melb. Marine Court,
after an exhaustive three months’ enquiry into the
causes of the foundering of the s.s. Glenelg, has
determined that a leak is a leak ; that the vessel
was perfectly seaworthy, that she went down
because of an unaccountable orifice, and that no
one, from the official surveyors to the cabin boy,
was to blame. Thus the public will have to con-
tinue to put to sea, backing its luck, and without
any satisfactory guarantee that rotten ships are
not allowed to leave port.
Infirmities have at last a Conqueror
. . IN . .
The Great Herbal Remedy,
VITADATIO
Acknowledged to be
The Best Blood Purifier Extant.
READ THE TESTIMONIAL FROM A GENTLEMAN
WHO HAS BEEN CURED OF KIDNEY AND
OTHER TROUBLES.
SEVENTY YEARS OF AGE, AND CURED.
*HOPE FOR THE AGED.
The Manse, Gipps-street, East Melbourne.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir.—About six months ago I went to Sydney,
where I was taken bad with kidney and other troubles.
I consulted an eminent doctor, who treated me for five
weeks without success. He told me my trouble was
weakness. I then left Sydney, and returned to my home
in Melbourne, where I was strongly advised to try a
course of Vitadatio, which I did. After taking the second
dose of Vitadatio, I noticed peculiar symptoms, which you
told me were from an abscess, and recommended me to
continue with Vitadatio, assuring me that it would
thoroughly cure me, which I am thankful to say it did,
after taking ten bottles of Vitadatio. I really believe it
saved my life. There is no patching up about Vitadatio.
Only give it a fair trial, and it will make a thorough cure,
and for kidney troubles I feel sure there is no medicine in
the world can equal it, and I have tried many. Vitadatio
has also cured me of rheumatism in the hands which I
have been suffering with for a long time. For many years
I was a great sufferer from piles (internal), but I am
thankful to say since I started taking Vitadatio they have
entirely disappeared, and I have gained in weight, al-
though I am just on 70 years of age. My family and
myself say, “ Well done, Vitadatio ! ”
JAMES HOLMES,
Inventor of Patent Collision Apron for Ships.
November 2, 1899.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5 s 6d; Small Size, 3s 6d.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s 6d.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
RECORD ORDER for TYPEWRITERS
121
..YOSTS
This order has just been given by
Her Majesty’s Government for
Yost Type writers, after the famous
machine had been thoroughly
tested alongside other makes.
mn
This is the Clearest Proof of the Sterling Value of the Yost Typewriter.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
114 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane: Webster & Co. ; Adelaide: Reeves & Co. ; Launceston : Hedley Button.
4®" Agents also for the NEW CENTURY and DENS MORE.
MERCHANTS !
WHY PUSH
“ other fellows’ ” Coupons
When you can PUSH YOUH OWN
by using the ....
national Cash Register Coupons
s ■ t"
In place of paying the“ other fellow” Five Pounds weekly,
and advertising his business, you can issue your own
Coupons at a next-to-nothing cost !
ill
_r-
It is a well-known fact that
half the Coupons issued by
the Storekeepers are never
returned.
WHO gets the benefit of this ?
You or the “ other fellow” ?
This is worth your serious
consideration, and it will
pay you to investigate the
NATIONAL ..
Cash Register
COUPON SYSTEM.
Full particulars on application to • • •
National Cash Register Co.
335 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager for Australasia.
The Difference in the Price
of a DUNLOP TYRE and a
Cheap (?) Imitation One is only
a matter of a few shillings; but
The Difference in the |pear
is so great that a pair of
MULTIFLEX
m
will outlash TWO FAIRS
of Imitation Tyres.
BEWARE
OF
IMITATIONS
DUNLOPS are only genuine
when the cover and tube are
embossed ■with this
Trade Mark.
First in 1888 . . .
Foremost ever since .
nm
We
Guarantee
all Australian-
made
ROADSTER
n
for
12 MONTHS
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Aus. Ltd.
150 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
lowest interest.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
nxr.s ,-w.
fflont depiete DJl.Co»CW-
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
New south wales mont de
PIETE D. AND I. CO., Limited,
74 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
GENERAL meeting.
A GENERAL MEETING of the shareholders
in the above Company will be held on TUES-
DAY, 31st, upon the Company’s Premises, at
11.80 a.m.
By order of the Board of Directors,
EUSTACE BENNETT,
Manager.
Business:—
To receive Directors’ Report and Balance-sheet;
to elect Two Directors in the room of H. B.
Cotton, Esq., and William Gallagher, Esq.,
whose term of office .expires by effluxion of time
(both these gentlemen are eligible for re-elec-
tion, and offer themselves accordingly); to elect
two Auditors for the coming twelve months
(Messrs. J.,8. C. Miles and J. H. Davies are
eligible, and offer themselves for re-election);
and to transact any other business that may be
brought before the meeting in accordance with
the Articles of Association.
Dated 16th July, 1900.
NEW SOUTH WALES MONT DE PIETE
D. AND I. CO., Limited,
74 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
The TRANSFER BOOKS of this Company
will be closed from the 16th to the 31st instant,
inclusive. ' • -
By order.
EUSTACE BENNETT,
Manager.
Dated 16th July, 1900.
City Mutual Life
A Assurance Society
Limited. ...
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Libera! and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland:
247 G-eorge Street ( Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
Accident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Lo ndon.
I Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jkssop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
'-THE-.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. O. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller,
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Tyrian, Sat., July 28, 12 Noon,
Peregrine, Sat., Aug. 4, 12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
■ Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Leura, Sat., July 28, 12 Noon.
• Konoowarra, Tues., July 31,12 Noon
Tyrian, Saturday, Aug. 4, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Leura, Saturday, July 28, 12 Noon.
Tyrian, Saturday, Aug. 4, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application..
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
!■>« Trustees, Creators,
AND
Bgmy Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £l6O 000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £160,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Hew Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent.. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000 000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New ’ ’
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
Queensland Smelting Qompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager!
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS
Aldershot, Queensland.
Pe Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
’ (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
Mr. A. J. CIIARKER.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000
£700,000
£350,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital £4,800,000 0 O
Paid-up Capital (23 4 ’OOl .. £3,196,353 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embiing, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chirk Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager ; Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Hishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhail Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NtW SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
VICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
T DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on the SECOND MONDAY in each month for
MORTGAGE BONDS, bearing interest at THREE per
cent. Tender forms and conditions supplied at all
SAVINGS BANKS in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
mn
FRINGES,
Katoral Curly, from 3/fe eaola
PLAITS and TAILS,
jOln. long, l>/0. all real hair,
CUTTINGS & COM LINO*
worked up, per oz.
Wo are the cheapest! n Aa>
t#al}a lor all Hair Work.
S«nd Color of Hair.
W. H- Wigzoll,
>lO WILLIAU STREET,
corner of Palmer-etreet,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
Send stamps for full Price List).
Pr*B>pt atteotion givcD to Country Crdsrv
m
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrik & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail 7th September.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AFRIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling: public and shippers
l3 rawn the splendid equipment of these
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
oerths, with read in e-room, smoking-room, and a dining
r °om occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character..
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
*or rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
P——KWawr g«^apamnMMß»MiL«. u . Mra . f ~ w ju m 1
VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVIC&
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
Tbe steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
a,vau»<jie until used, ana Saloon
Lassengers can break, their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
a I w fc v er T ln ! ormatlo ."* a PP>y Union Sleara Ship Co.
of Equitable Buildings, George Street,
neict G.f.O Sydney; Corner Collins and William
saa.?&se&K;; j r iiM ’ 15
“N. D. L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg,
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, Southamp-
ton, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.'
o, KC , jjcou ■n.i.-cumujo'iation, jixceilent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOIIMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING-, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
lapies^Tailobinc
Season—l9oo.^>
HAVING made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring 1 Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Lady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now s 6 much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming Mai I boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLE and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing .Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter)]
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW.YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X716j.fl and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
11. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
, Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER 'SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOB MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
GSPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
- July* 27.
(Without Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. War re fro, Friday.
July .27.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
baloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
bons. For Adelaide and YV..A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
aitions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., ltd.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Cov. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
.Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS- Weekly
Ivuwpv ANU ROCKHAMPTON-Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN-Every 3' Weeks, via Bris
ba ' le - Townsville, Cooldown, Thursday Island,
and Norrnanton.
NE W CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly. y
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA
Fortnightly. ’
Passenger A ccornrnodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
ctt.ww uII Particulars from the Agents:
MCRmrem''"* T P r h i'? T *, Co " Ltd > 10 Bridge Street.
™4;, U \ S - N • Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
mMirnr s ' W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
PERTH—D. Hamilton.
KISBANE British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Eoy. Ltd., Managing Agents,
P. AND O. COMPANY.
be T d h esp R ° f the above °°« will
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Pprmiucinn t/a noil d«: ir*
Commander.
T. S. Angus
W. D. G. Worcester, R.N.R.
I. Reeves
E. Crewe
J. Cowie, R.N.R.
Sydney,
Noon
July
Aug.
Aug.
Sept.
Sept.
ojiigie, A-do to Jb7o.
® for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
B > rid'ge^^ee^s rSAC^”r^'^^ll^’
Huddart, Parker & Co’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOUItNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, AUSTItA LI A,
NEW ZEALAND PORI’S.
Current Jtfttss.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
For MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Steamer, ]Tns Commander. I Leave Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN
GUTHRIE
EASTERN
AIRLIE ...
13000 P. T. Helms ...lAugust
TO- C- M‘Arthur September :
. 3600 Winthrop Ellis .. September 2:
. 2500 St. John George ... October li
®5 eame r s were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience
E ec * )no Bight and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
Surgeon and Stewardess carried
t 0 P° ints in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
I, i , — rri — | , , m M in, I,,,treet. Sydney.
fl)‘|liiraitli,(|) < Eacharn& go.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
EASTERN * COLONIES.
a . Fo * Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money
Stock Rates and Freight Quota) ions, apply '
M ilwraith, M Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., *
~ ~ ~ Bridge-street’ Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street. y
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6aoo tons, under Postal Contract with th a
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE ade
LAIDE ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT silD
will be disnatchpd MONTH r v „„ t„ni oaio,
Mel-
bourne,
1 p.m.
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m.
August 9 Aug. l
Sept. 6 Sept. i
Oct. 4 Oct. (
RETURN REDUCED RATES. ENGUSD
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters i„hp,
° /e' 6 ' 11 Par ' S and Ca!ai^ S 011 S
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between l„t P ,
colonial Ports are available for return by P and O
and Orient steamers having room. y d °
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offie Pa
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney. pariy s unices,
K. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
How to Prevent the BUBONIC PLAQUE and other Fevers.
Pills once or twice a week if Constipated; use
Blood is impure take the Alfaline Blood Pills.
Take a Hot Bath daily before meals, and rub the skin well after-
wards; apply Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil freely to the Clothing,
Handkerchief, and take 4- drops on a piece of loaf sugar each
Evening when going to bed; take two Alfaline Liver and Kidney
. . . . .... ___ w .. k take the Alfaline Vitality Pills for a month or two; if the
th \he a Al?l«ine Ca E^yptus U OM and Jujubes and Alfaline Herbal Remedies are absolute PREVENTATIVES AGAINST
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Bemedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Bemedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Warn of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NEBVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY_FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials
from cured and
grateful patrons,
with full particulars
necessary for self-
cure, and all details
regarding the scope
of the Alfaline
Remedies.
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alf aline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
. ■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
desires to inform his
patrons that liis
Alf aline Herbal
Remedies can only be
obtained from his
Head Office, or
his branches the
addresses of which
are set out on this
page. It is, there-
fore, useless to apply
to any chemist or
Patent M edicine
dealers for the genuine
Alfaline Remedies.
A REWARD
will be given for in-
formation convicting
anyone of imitating the
aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALKALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSXIIUSSeiI>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSmUSSen.
APVKC FREE.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
3a., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills—A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms botli in Children aud Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 42s and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same tims
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office 547 GEO
BRISBANE ; 160 Queen-st (near Creek-st.)
MELBOURNE; 150 Bourke-st. <opp. East. Markets)
ADELAIDE: 154 Rundle-st.(nr.York H’tel)
N.Z., WELLINGTON: 91 Lamb ton Quay
!FERTH,W,A.: 481 Hay-st. coaoi*-)
KALGOORLIE: Hannan-st. (next Lindell’s)
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEO
Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, rou
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
f ? u - Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
Ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may Be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
11 allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
m You may have attended various hospitals and had
meaical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
ru }%. » S T U b m ' ito amputation ; but do not, lor I CAN
i 0U- I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
i . ave t ai!c( l is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
?£i. C „ h certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
s Knec > Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
s“?*> Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
vt’kflbt?’itritain, 1/Ud. per box. Prepared by
JLariingdon— street, London, England.
J??,’ ELLIOTT BROS., Svduev. Purchasers should
f.on i rc S ll, te r ed trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
Medical.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
n
MEDICATOR.
/'CATARRH is inflammation of the
' w - / ' lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal ear-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure f If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Notice Catarrh C6re Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
LIG MO LLI EN E ”
The Great Australian Cure.
LICMOLLIENE never fails to CURE ECZEMA (“Psoriasis
Acne ”). BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT, VIC.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Outs, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, eto.
F. C. CALVERT 4, COIWPY.,
MANCHESTER.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
mDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs,' Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AD LT & CO’S
Indian. Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
rHLOROPyNE.
si#
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUCHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, & c -> bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS o!
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
REITS and
A REIIA N CES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which' is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA." Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,"we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
mn
m
nm
Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor :—STEPHEN GREEN,
210 Lambeth Bd., London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my Invaluable little pamphlet.
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering gUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
I Cure Fits.
You are
not asked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. R00T,38, Endsleigh Gdas , LON DON.
HEALTH AND STRCN6TN
may be secured without inconvenience by taking
Dr. HOPE’S LIFE SYRUP. Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day to day. Are you a. Sufferer from bad health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
The Life Syrup Will Cure You.
Restores the shattered constitution to vigorous
manhood.
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis-
orders are cured, and in many cases by diet alone, posted
six stamps. Address HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN*
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address— MALlNC REMEDY CO.,
38 filizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Mr
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
overcome Deafness
land Head N oises, no matter of
Ihow long standing. Are the same
r to the ear« as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfouable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST,I4S Collins St., Melbourne.
“The 800 men captured at Lindley and
Roodival, whom the Free State Boers put through
the Drakensberg passes—being unable to provide
them with food as prisoners—were nearly starved
to death when they got to Natal. Their uniforms
had been stolen by their captors, and they were
dressed in filthy and ragged Boer clothes.' —Cable.
Eight hundred hearty British braves
Surrendered to the hungry Boers,
Who sneer at Rulers'of the Waves
And spurn the “ etiquette ” of war :
The captors’ garments, thin and old,
Hung ragged round their shrunken forms.
The captives, smiling at the cold,
Wore woollen winter uniforms.
Those villains bold
Who felt the cold,
And wanted shelter from the storms,
They dared to swap their garments old
For captive “ Tommies’ ” uniforms.
Now when the captors (this was mean)
Had no more food to give away
They bade the soldiers of the Queen
Live on to fight another day.
Then plodding o’er the mountain track
With chilblains on their weary feet
The poor ex-captives wandered back
To where they’d get enough to eat.
Tom, Bill, and Jack
Went toiling back,
Pale victims of their own defeat;
The Boers had put them on the track
That led to Liberty and Meat.
The cable told the shocking tale
Of how the stubborn “ brutal” Boers
Ignore when togs and vittles fail
The etiquette of modern wars,
And Jingo British bosoms throbbed
In Britain and beyond the sea,
The hungry Boers had Starved and Lobbed
Their captives e’er they set ’em free.
Our bosoms throbbed,
We sat and sobbed. I
And heaved a sigh of sympathee .
For those brave fellows “ starved and robbed
To clothe the fiends who set ’em free.


BUYERS of road Bicycles find better service and
greater value in the EASY RUNNING
MASSEY - HARRIS than in any other Bicycle.
What we say they’ll do they do do.
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 385 GEORGE STREET,
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
SYDNEY
The aure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
At 10 o’clock p.m. of Friday, 20th July, at
Breelong, N.S.W., a small party of aboriginals,
who had been ring-barking for a Mr. Mawbey,
broke into his house—he being elsewhere at the
time —and, with .tomahawks and native clubs,:
cruelly murdered three young women and a lad of
15, leaving also Mrs. Mawbey and a fourth girl
for dead. The unfortunate females were not out-
raged in any other way, and the only thing dis-
coverable, up to date, in the way of motive is that
Mawbey, it is alleged, had refused to allow the
white wife Qf one of the blacks to associate in-any
way with his own womankind. In any case, the
whole affair—by suddenly presenting to us the
blackfellow in all his pristine savagery—gives a
rude shock to our customary present-day estimate
of him as a harmless and rather comic anachronism,
with a perennial craving for baccaand “tickpen.”
Be this gruesome occurrence, Mr. Harry Stockdale
writes to The Bulletin :
There is little doubt, from the statement of Joe Gover-
nor’s white wife, that the original intention of the blacks
was to kill Mr. Mawbey ; and that, finding other people
in the hut with him, they resolved to slay some of his
kindred, acting thus in accordance with the primitive
aboriginal law that every member of a family or tribe is
responsible for the action of any one member thereof.
As one well acquainted with the aboriginal charac-
ter, I have, personally, no doubt that, rightly or wrongly,
Governor and the others must have considered themselves
as in some way grievously wronged. I also fully believe
the statement of Governor’s wife, that on her husband’s
return to camp he said, “ We’ve killed all the s ;
and if you don’t clear out we will kill you”—-
as showing racial hatred roused to such an
extent that anybody white was in danger of
being murdered by these suddenly “ reverted ” savages.
A somewhat similar escape to that of the little boy Jack
Mawbey occurred nigh on 40 years ago, in Queensland,
when the Dawson River natives attacked the Fraser home-
station. The station was crowded with visitors, princi-
pally women, when a large bodv of blacks broke in and
killed all except one of the brothers Fraser. He escaped
through rolling off between the bed and the wall, after
receiving a club-stroke on the head ; his brother being
killed in the bed. In this case, however, the women were
all outraged prior to death ; and, though nothing of that
sort appears to have occurred at Breelong, in both cases
the heads of the victims were horribly battered in by
native bludgeons, some of which, like the hangeel,
will cut a man down as effectually as a sword’.
Unlike the Chinese, however, the Australian blacks never
torture. The man Governor, by the way, has white blood
in him ; and, if he is anything like as active and daring as
some of the sort I have known, he may take a lot of
catching; but, for so far, the murderers haven’t shown
any special activity or cunning. And finally, in view of
the many Australian outrages by whites upon whites, it
is preposterous to talk of this crime as meaning a general
uprising in the district (of about 20 or 30 inoffensive
natives !) to exterminate the whites.
[Since above was in type, news has come along of
at least one more murder by the dusky des-
peradoes, who, as they are “in for it” in any
case, are probably now “letting themselves go.”]
y
A
HARD
PULL.
On holidays two parties
of men*or.boys will fre-
quently get hold of the
opposite ends of a rope
and pull on it, as- a test of
the strengtli of the two
parties. They call it a
tug-of-war. Many a hard-
working man and woman
in each day’s toil is pulling
a tug-of-war with Death for an antagonist. They
fail to take proper care of their health. When
they suffer from indigestion or a slight billious
attack they “wear it out.” After a while these
disorders wear out the reckless man or woman,
and the result is some serious disease develops.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Hoot Pills is a medicine that
finds its way to every part. They commence at
the foundation of the disease; they get at the
cause. _ They make the appetite healthy, the
digestion perfect, the liver active, and the blood
pure. “I have suffered for the last year or more
from sluggish liver and indigestion, for which
I had tried many medicines, without obtaining
any relief therefrom,” writes A. Murray, of Albert
Park, Vic. “ The complaints were most trouble-
some and obstinate, and it seemed as if I had
to take it as the inevitable, until I tried Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, which I did about
three months ago. After using two bottles I
felt quite well again. I have also found them
A 1 for purifying the blood. I have suffered from
pimply eruptions, but since using the pills the
pimples have all disappeared. They are a good
medicine, and seem to benefit one in many
ways, and I can conscientiously give them a good
word wherever I go.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a positive cure for Biliousness, Indi-
gestion, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Sick Head-
ache, Liver Diseases, Sallow Complexion, Kid-
ney Troubles, Gravel, Gall Stones, Jaundice,
Flatulency, Foul Breath, Influenza, Female Ail-
ments, Piles, Pimples, Boils, Blotches, Scrofula,
Eczema, Rheumatism, Neuralgia, and Impure
Blood.
“The Times” Enterprise
It would be difficult to overestimate the value
of the _ service which the London Times is
doing in the interests of general education
in New South Wales by placing within reach
of even the humbler homes that greatest of
all reference libraries, the Encyclopaedia Britan >
nica. ' One of the leading educators of our times
has said : —;“ In this age of specialists, when each
separate branch of human knowledge is traced to
the farthest limits that a lifetime of study and in-
vestigation can penetrate, true education has come
to mean, not the storing of one’s mind with facts
and theories, but rather the training of one’s mind
to a proper use of the ‘ tools ’ of information. The
truly educated man is therefore one who knows
where to find the answer to every question that
may arise in his daily reading or in the pursuit of
his own business or profession.” If true education
consists “not in the storing of one’s mind with
facts and theories, but rather in the training of
one’s mind to a proper use of the ‘ tools ’ of in-
formation,” then every home which boasts the
possession of the Encyclopaedia Britannica becomes
a, university, for this international standard
library of reference is in very truth the epitome of
all human knowledge. When the Times offers to
place this library in any house on the preliminary
payment of a single guinea it is putting within the
reach of all the best products of the best minds of
our age.
Melb. Australasian, in a brief account
of Sir Robert Hart’s life and services in China
(after quoting a statement that Hart is a “ typical
Irish gentleman ”) winds-up with the remark that
it is a matter for pride that this remarkable man
should be an Englishman. If a man is of small
account, he remains, for the English commentator,
Scotch or Irish as the case may be ; but, let him
make a name, and he at once becomes English—
“ in a comprehensive sense, doncherknow.”
Somebody sends The Bulletin the draft
of a bill to be laid before Q. Parliament, which
preambles that* “ the punishment of death is irro
vocable, and therefore the trials of all persons
charged with offences punishable by death should
be conducted with the utmost care and delibera-
tion ”; and proceeds to enact—
No sitting or continuation of a sitting of the Court for
the trial of any person for any offence which by law is
punishable by death shall be held except between the
hours of nine o’clock in the forenoon and six o’clock in
the afternoon : Provided that if the examination of any
witness has been commenced before the hour of six
o clock in the afternoon such examination, and any cross-
examination and re-examination consequent thereon may
be continued and concluded after that hour, but the
Court shall thereafter forthwith adjourn until its next
sitting day.
And if the lawyers don’t oppose it, this excellent
precaution may quite likely become law, as a sop
to the Cerberus of Honest Government, which
does not conflict with the Ministry’s commercial
speculations. By the way, who introduces the
measure ?
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY, ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories.
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO.,
Ideal Tyre
RICHMOND, VICTORIA ;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N. Z.
Great Revival in Cycling
sesr-si “rsMr w^r^Mse* 1 &» -*
f s n E d D? ut Masti &s p '““™ ®"
else but an up-to-date RED BIRD, you will if wise m/i't r 6 i IC J anything
and have it exchanged for our 55 model At any Tate call V° U .\ at T ce
that brought the boom back. anyrate, call round and see the wheel
THE HOOLD BICYCLE CO. LTD.
64 *<»NG STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel. 3160.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Veteran pug “Mick” Dooley (now verging on
44) and Bill Doherty—who knocked a heap of self-esteem
out of 6ft. 3in. Peter Felix last week and gathered in Austra-
lian premiership bruising honors—are matched to fight in
Sydney, Aug. 6. Same couple have already come together
four times, .and each has two wins to credit. Dooley
could only get three weeks to train, which writer doesn’t
think near enough, especially as Doherty is in finer trim
than ever before. The champion wouldn’t give a day
longer, and told Dooley he must either fight then or not
at all. Looks as if Bill is getting even. A few months
ago Dooley licked big Fremantle navvy Anderson.
Doherty challenged the winner. Dooley made it a sine
qua rum that they must shape-up three weeks later.
Doherty demurred—he couldn’t get into fix by then.
Dooley was obdurate. The battle eventuated within
the time stated, and the Bth round proved the end of
Doherty’s tether : he had to cry a go. Positions are
changed now : this time Doherty is getting Dooley on the
hop.
* * * *
“Pads.”: Announcement that Dooley and
Doherty are to have ’em on for N.S.W. heavyweight
supremacy sets one thinking. Though not actually
champion, Dooley was close up before Jackson, Slavin, or
grizzly Goddard were heard of ; he subsequently formed
the .stepping-stone to world-wide repute for each in turn.
They went abroad, he stayed at home, yet Dooley (eldest
of the lot) has outlived them all, and is in the thick of it
still, while Peter, Paddy, and Joe have dropped away,
and are among the one-timers.
* » * •
Peter Jackson had a few words to say at settling
over the recent Doherty-Felix fight. “ Manly fighters
were only found administering blows so long as they
were in danger of receiving blows themselves. They
never punched an opponent who was beyond punching
them.” The famous black spoke from his heart there.
When he won the Australian belt from Lees, and had the
latter sick and sorry, he stopped punching and begged of
Lees’ seconds to take him away. Same thing occurred
with “Chocolate” Godfrey and Patsy Cardiff in’Murica
and Paddy Slavin in England. Peter’s proudest boast is
that he never hit a man more than necessity demanded.
• * • *
Preston-Mick Dunn match at Nathan’s Hall
(Melb.), in connection with which the purse (£5O) was pro-
vided and profits raked in by a local penny weekly, drew
a big house, but didn’t please 90 per cent, of ring-siders.
As often here stated, Preston’s fighting-kit consists of one
hand only—the left—(t’other might just as well he tied
behind for all the use it is) bulk and bull-headed aggres-
siveness. Dunn, clever as any we have in the fighting
game, took no chances but contented himself mostly by
standing off and jabbing when opportunity allowed.
Once a section of the crowd whistled the “ Dead March”
—there wasn’t enough gore in it for them —albeit Dunn
gashed Preston’s left eye-brow in round two. The Bth
term opened with Dunn making play from the jump,
which condition of things completely overwhelmed the
always-beef.v Fred., who dropped his hands ere too much
had been done and cried enough. One report was
amusing—it said : “ Preston did not at all box up to form.
He was slow and unwieldy, and was very backward in
the punch which has knocked all the wind out of
many of his opponents.” Fancy the lumbering Preston
being anything but slow and unwieldy in front of a
champion boxer like Dunn ! There’s a wide difference
between the class of men Preston has beaten and the
crack Sydney middle-weight—old and all as he is. On
Felix’s showing with Doherty t’other night, writer has an
idea that the black-pelted long ’un would go near coming
another cropper if he faced Dunn—difference in height
and weight notwithstanding
• * ¥ *
“Brum.”? Notice erstwhile - Captain’s Flat
(N.S.W.) miner Dan O’Connell is challenging Cribb, and
offers to post £5O. Latter has evidently left off reading
the papers, for he says nothing in response. Dan is just
the sort of chap to whip the Maorilander—he’s as strong
as a horse, always has a weighty punch in stock, and can
bullock with the best at that game. Jack Conlon beat
Dan twice, but the last go proved the toughest of tussles.
Jack stood off his man, contenting himself with long-
range shots, otherwise he would have gone under. Cribl)
isn’t clever enough for that, besides he’s about 101 b.
lighter than Dan.
• * * •
Cables, though telling that Australian champion
sprinter Rowley ran 4th in the British premiership this
month, 3rd in the 100-metres, and 3rd in the 6'J-metres
events of Paris Olympian Games, are very silent re details.
Athletic authorities here can only guess as to who finished
in front of Rowley, but general opinion favors the Yankee
contingent, which was strong numerically and athletically
and embraced reps, from every big scholastic institution.
Bar the’Murkans, the only man likely to give Rowley a
close call would be the Bengal amateur Pritchard.
» * • *
Joe Darling has been treating for the purchase
of a station property near Albury (N.S.W.) ever since his
return from England, but as owners declined his price he
bought a sheep-run in North Tasmania. He writes to
friends in Adelaide that unless he can get practice big
cricket will see him no more.
’ * * *
Darling’s retirement is a greater blow than that
Australia suffered when Murdoch gave up the game—for
J6e' is not 30 yet, and may be considered in his prime.
When a college boy in ’B5 Darling made 252 for Prince
Alfred against St. Peter’s College, but he went up country
on his father’s farm and he hardly played again till ’93,
when he returned to Adelaide and started his cricket busi-
ness. In ’94 he made 117 for S.A. against Stoddart’s team
in Adelaide. His average in big matches is 38 (4681 runs
for 134 innings) and in interprovincial cricket 33 (1560
runs for 49 innings). He has made 11 centuries in big
cricket and 10 in other matches. The biggest score of his
career was made last season for his club, against Port
Adelaide, when he topped his college record score hy 7
runs. Writer reckons the best innings he ever saw was
Darling’s 178 in the third Test against Stoddart’s team on
Adelaide Oval in ’97. When Joe was 94 he completed his
century by lifting Briggs out of Adelaide Oval for six,
and the ball went fully 30vds. into the adjoining planta-
tion. S.A. will suffer most from Darling’s retirement, for
Giffen is declining, Jones has visibly deteriorated and
Clem Hill is right off. As for Australian cricket, the
place cannot easily be filled of the man who had top aver-
age with the last team in England and the highest aggre-
gate of runs by any Australian in the Old Country.
Darling, by-the-way, has ever been an absolute teetotaller
and non-smoker.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
Darling was within an ace of throwing up
cricket on the eve of the last Australian tour in England.
He felt very much the attitude of the S.A. public towards
him over Geo. Giffen’s exclusion, but what upset the sen-
sitive Joe most of all was the hooting of the crowd when
he came out to bat against, the Rest of Australia in Ade-
laide. In addition, one press writer, who strongly cham-
pioned Giffen’s cause, seemed to have carte blanche as re-
gards personal abuse of the left-hander. The feeling in
Adelaide over the Darling-Giffen trouble was so strong at
• one time that numerous cricket clubs actually boycotted
Darling’s sports business.
**. • ¥
Cable tells that Oxford ’Varsity and Worcester-
eounty bat R. E. Foster compiled 102 (not out) and 136 in
successive innings for Gentlemen v. Players, last week—
the second time in present season that Foster has hit up
two centuries in a match. Playing for Oxford v. last
Australian 11 Foster shaped brilliantly for 80. Foster is a
, man who has his days ont. Last year (for Worcester), in
one match, 134 and 101 (not out) stood opposite his name.
¥ ¥ ¥ *
Australian tennis-champion Kearney made his
mark at ’Ome quickly. Last mail tells that he figured
among contestants for Whitehouse Cup (virtually Scottish
supremacy) at Edinburgh and met holder (Rowan) in the
final ties. Kearney scored in first set 6—l; and Rowan
took the second 7—5. Kearney got home in third hy
6—l; and fourth by 7—6. Kearney and a fellow
Australian, J. G. Glassford, subsequently gathered in the
Gentlemen's doubles premiership.
* • • •
Second match N.S.W. v. Q. (Saturday) drew
7000 to Sydney Cricket Ground despite adverse weather.
Cornstalks won by 11 to 9. Both teams played with nerve
and vigor all through. N.S.W. defence was strong to a
man. Q. scrum-work showed a falling off compared with
that of two previous matches, but forwards of either side
were well up to the mark. Sodden and slippery turf con-
sidered, the match was very fast and exciting, and indi-
cated that N.S.W. will need to send her very best to
Brisbane in September.
* » * *
Saturday’s football struggle was the 42nd ’tween
Q. and N.S.W. The latter has a2to 1 majority of wins—
-26 to 13. Three matches were drawn. Initial match
eventuated at old Sydney Association Ground, 18 years
since, when home side won by 28 to 4.
* * * *
Much jealousy has arisen among the Sydney
Electorate football clubs owing to what they consider the
disproportionate representation of North Sydney club in
the interprovincial matches, that club being only one point
above Glebe in the local premiership competition and
two above Western Suburbs. N. Sydney has five members
selected to play in the first encounter against Queensland,
six in the second, and five in the match against the
Metrop. Union ; altogether half of their first 15 were
chosen to represent the province. The credit of booming
his club is due to J. R. Henderson, so long boss of North
Shore football in the old Pirate days ; he appears to
have the largest say in the selection committee. In the
final fixture the country players were allotted three
places, North Sydney six, and the rest of the Sydney
clubs six among them. The Western Suburbs barrackers
are the most annoyed, as their club, though well up in
the badge competition, did not have a solitary representa-
tive. They sarcastically refer to the N.S.W. team as
“ North Sydney, with a couple of pick-ups.” But the
result of the three contests justifies the Selection Com-
mittee.
# • * *
Cabled last week that little, white-headed Jack
Hellings, erstwhile of Woolloomooloo Bay, and once first-
flight Australian sprint swimmer, won the 500yds. City of
London championship in 5.40 1-5. Judging by footnotes
to the wire in various dailies, writers are mystified over
the 5.40 1-5, in face of the fact that the world's prof, best
is 6.281 and amateur 6.45, and blame the cable-man for'
blundering. One Sydney paper took it upon itself to
make the time 7.40 1-5. Truth of the matter is (and few
seem to know it) that the City of London championship
is swum in the Thames with a strong current; hence the
speed, which (under the conditions) would, of course,
never be allowed as a record. This is the third time in
succession Hellings has owned the same honor, and
always as a member of the fashionable Ravensboume
(London; S.O. In ’9B he travelled much faster, and got
home with a lot to the good—the figures then being
5.30 4-5—9 2-ssec. quicker than the feat that has proved
so bewildering to many people.
* * * *
Rosebud, the rank outsider who pulled off the
Grand National Steeplechase at Flemington, was a dis-
puted case in Melb. law-courts a while ago. The mare’s
original owner, a policeman, sued the next purchaser (J.
Burke) for breach of agreement after she had won at Men-
tone. The action failed, and Burke suDsequently sold
Rosebud for £35 to her present owner. Seems that this
same Rosebud won a number of up-country races what
time Burke was training her for the policeman.
*** , *
£76 div. was paid for 10s. invested on Rosebud,
winner of V.R.O. G.N. Steeple, by the “ tote” promoted
among the members of Melb. Commercial Travellers’ Club.
* * • »
Dear Bulletin.—You ask, “ What would Rose-
bud have paid on the‘tote’?” Well, on a well-known
Sydney “ tote ” Rosebud did pay (paying first, second and
third) over £9 for 55., making her odds—pay first only—
about 75 to 1. Aquarius, too, on same “ tote ” paid over
£6 —first only would mean about 50 to 1. Nobody on the
course could have got more than 33 to 1— the Leger
would probably have had to take 20’s or 25’s.—G.F.B.
* * * m
“ Steve” Callinan established a record at New-
castle (N.S.W.) last week, when he “ rode the pro-
gramme”—five winners in five races—three favorites and
two second favorites. The starting prices were 2to 1,
4 to 1, 5 to 2, 7 to 2, and “ even money ” in the respective
races. Ikey Mo will doubtless not forget Callinan for a
while—especially at Newcastle.
» * » *
Bookmaker Bill Wyatt won the Vic. Club
Billiard Tournament the other day. There was not much
straight out wagering, for the Israelites had not yet re-
covered from the shock last year’s winner (Prosper) gave
them, and they were afraid to risk many pounds against
anybody's chance. As a bettor on billiard-matches and
tournaments Ikey Mo is seen at his worst.
* * * *
“Jim Crow”: Already noted as a matter-of-
fact Ikey Mo’s price about the Grand National “ double ”
was only 100 lo 1 in most quarters.
* * * •
The much-travelled Paris is again in work, as
sound as a bell, and people in the know say that he may
again pull off a big handicap coup. What a record it
would be!
» * » »
Dear Bulletin, —I wish you would stir “Tat-
tersall ” up re specials for Caulfield and Melbourne Cups.
Why should they not be advertised as soon as the ordi-
naries ? Also, why doesn’t Tatt. advertise a 50,000 special
for both above races at 20s. ?—Straight, Maoriland.
* • * *
Frank Lawry’s Bill in M.L. House of Reps.,
establishing State-guaranteed lotteries—reputable men
being licensed to promote them under bond—has once
again been defeated—by 11 votes. Lawry thinks that the
large sum posted away every year should be retained in
the country.
* • * »
“ Leash ”: Recent Australian Waterloo Cup
decided at Moonee Valley (Vic.) was the first properly so-
called since the latest revival of coursing. N.S.W. and
Victoria are the only provinces in it. S.A. wouldn’t join.
Winner (Transit) is in her third season and was specially
kept from previous year—so were others. Transit has
run 20 courses, and only failed to raise a flag in two.
Worth mentioning that in the so-called Australian Cup at
Bendigo, last season, she and Procyon were drawn
together and latter won. Strangely enough same pair
met again in initial round of Waterloo Cup and tables
were turned. On night of draw hundreds to 4 were
offered against Transit, but her owner (said to be a
Corryong selector) wanted the odds to 2J, and not being
able to get that price he allowed his bitch to run “ loose.”
Others were not so foolish. As evidencing what fine
fettle the hound was in, it might be mentioned that ere
the first course came on she scaled exactly 501b5., and
only lost a few oz. right through, though some of the
tests were severe enough, as most of the hares were
strange to the Plumpton. Veteran mother province-
courser Sam Bladon (Rooty Hill) appropriated the purse
and plate with Booty and his sister Beeline respectively.
Same sport owns Braddon’s Blot, winner of recent bif
N.S.W. N.C.A. Challenge Stakes.
* * *
John Roberts, who can still speak as boss artist
.at the game saws bias of jealousy, reckons young Steven-
son will be the English billiard champion anon. The com-
paratively new star promises to excel Dawson, says “old
man ” Roberts, and to anyone capable of judging Daw-
son’s play in Australia by comparison with the “ form ” of
Roberts a few years previously, there was evidently
plenty room for a Stevenson to come between them.
Dawson, for one thing, lacked the reach necessary for
many of those nursery cannons which the big champion
could manipulate without requiring the “rest.” But
how about a future Australian champion of the 12 x 6ft.
game ? One time it looked as though the climate was not
favorable to the development of delicate skill and cold
nervy temperament in billiardists, but the steady pro-
gress of Weiss and Co. has almost disposed of the climate
argument. After all, the deftest hand workers in the
world are native to hot countries.
• » * •
“ Alex M.” : To “ Theo B.” (B. 21/7/’00) I ss*y
ditto ! These hustles-for-a-knock-out (I won’t call them
“fights”) are weary exhibitions for those who remember
the days of clean, straight hitting by men who stood up
to it like men, instead of “ mooching ” and crouching and
slinking round after this knock-out, which, as “ Theo.”
says, is mostly part, and often whole, “fluke.” This is
doubtless as good a way as any other to decide who shall,
scoop the pool; but, as boxing, it is miserable ; while, as
sheer “ fight,” it is as likely to give the victory to the
cocktail as to the game-un. Corbett’s recent showing
with Jeffries was a return to the science of boxing —as
distinguished from the pitiful art of swing-sneaking ; and
with such splendid head and foot-work and straight-out
hitting as Corbett put-up, combined with a little more
power behind the blows than the Pompadour appears to
possess, a man would, at anything like equal weights,
simply wipe-out anything we’ve seen here lately—
phenomenon Cribb not excepted. Cribb’s only a
phenomenon, anyhow, because he has never yet struck a
high-class out-fighter, with legs and a head' on him as
well as things to punch with.
• *• » «
People who knew, smiled at the prospect of
sending sprinter Rowley to England—even though the
English amateurs are now somewhat below old standard.
It was a tax on the sporting community, and engineered
by people who have an axe to grind in booming the game.
Owing to times credited him by watch-holders—bunglers
or axe-grinders—Hempton of Maoriland appeared to be
faster than Botany and Carrington pros. Yet
“Wally” Williams donkey-licked him in a
private spin. The axe-grinders carefully kept
this out of print. So Hempton was soon after
sent to England at considerable cost, and did noth-
ing to speak of.
* * * *
And people who know smile at the lOsec. for
100yds. credited to Rowley and Co. At one time it used
to be 10 1-5, whether the course was good or bad, or the
day wet or fine. When London Referee was started it
offered £lOO for any man in the world who could
run 100yds. in lOsec., with this proviso, that the
timekeeper must be—not the amateur official—but one
who held the watch at the big Sheffield handicaps.
Petley, of Finchley, the second-speediest sprinter ever
seen in England, on public form at any rate, was specially
trained for the event, but his party wanted a second try
in case weather, &c., proved unfavourable, and the affair
fell through. Petley, of course, would have laughed at
doing 120yds. in 12secs.—he must have run 126yds. in
12secs. when second to Hutchens in Doncaster Handicap
of 1877—but even-time for the shorter distance is another
matter. While a runner can keep at top speed he is
making up for loss in first 10yds., hence the better time
result.
* ♦ • V
Tas. turf lost a strong supporter through the
sudden death of Mr. R. G. Talbot (Malahide) recently.
Deceased was 44, and had been prominent in racing 20
years. He owned an interest in Darebin when it won
V -R.C. Derby in ’Bl. Caulfield Cup winner, Blink Bonny,
was his, but he only landed £2OOO, as, though previously
he had determined to throw in for a big stake, a bad gal-
lop stopped the commission. Lord W’ilton—-beaten by
Blink Bonny—would have suited Mr. Talbot much better.
Same man owned Sheet Anchor, but could do no good
with him—he was sold to Mr. Loughlin for 1000 gs., and
soon after won Melb. Cup. Mr. Talbot had a lot of other
nags which did fairly well.
» * * *
A notable Yic. convert to the tote faith is
Purves, Q.O. At a recent sporting gathering Purves ad-
mitted that he had been bitterly opposed to the machine
before he found out his mistake. Whereupon lawyer
Croker called upon Frank Madden to likewise discover
his mistake, and “ recant his old-fashioned notions,” but
the burly Tory was not to be drawn out.


“Surprising Results”
HAVE BEEN OBTAINED WITH
derby
TOBACCO
It has the largest sale
of any
Tobacco imported
into Australasia
WHY?
BECAUSE it is
Pure in Quality, « «
Perfect in Flavor, and
Faithful in Manufacture
J7sk for J)erby.
The Modern Art Jewellery Coy.,
PITT ST., SYTTTsTIHj'Z'-
Sterling Silver Sovereign Purses,
Plain, 7s 6d ; Engraved, 8s 6d.
Rolled Gold Sovereign Purses, Guar-
anteed.to wear 20 years. Price, 15s.
9c. Hall-Marked Sovereign Purses,
Price, 40s.
Sterling Silver Cigar Cutters, 6s 6<L
Gun Metal Cigar Cutters, 5s and 7s 6d.
UNLIMITED VARIETY
... IN SILVERWARE.
Sterling Silver Heart Match-
Boxes. Price, 9s 6d.
Other Styles, from 4s 6d.
LEA
and
PERRINS’
SAUCE.
Ask for
SAUC
LEA
and
PERRINS’
SAUCE.
Agenta—VlßGOE. SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & 00., Sydney.
<ii
Regd.
“ L.AWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
ik
EVERY YARD IS BTAMPED
STOCDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, George St., Sydney.
mil IDDICIP
100 sovs.
Distance,
130yds.
To be run on Friday Afternoon, Aug- 24.
Nomination, 10s.; Acceptance, 10s.
NOMINATIONS, Wednesday, Bth August; HANDICAPS,
Monday, 13th August ; ACCEPTANCES, Tuesday, 21st
August, 1900. Entry Forms and full particulars may be
obtained from the undersigned.
WILLIAM HUNT,
Kelso’s Hotel, Oxford-street, Sydney.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
rpo CYCLISTS AND CYCLE REPAIRMEN . .
X JB«n YOU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINES!
“ IMPERIAL” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rims and
Dunlops.
"IMPERIAL” Special Racers with same fittings.
American 1900 Model Component Sets, complete with
evety fitting, ail ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze can build a bicycle
of these sets.
“MORROW” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Back Pedal
Brake —saves the rider 40 per cent.
Write for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
Sundries, Novelties and Second-hand Wheels. GOOD
AGENTS wanted where not at present represented. Marine
Oil Engines and Launches—particulars and designs. A
post-card will bring you all information of our lines.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
't'
o
OLD
RNS
SUNBU;
FINg
iS>
HA
<5»
&.C
£/Vr
s
n
Y
p Hop
r, etors 4 a
S.A. Leg. Council has once more started
on its course of iconoclasm by pitching out the
Land Values Assessment Bill absolutely with no
debate.
Mrs. Ada Gateland, born at Hobart Town
in 1804 (the year after Collins founded the settle-
ment), and reputedly the oldest native, died last
week, aeed 96.
N.S.W. Public Service Tender Board—
the latest attempt to check extravagance in the
public departments, more especially m the inter-
nal expenditure on stores and stationery has
always been in a chronic state of difficulty over is
secretary. The original salary as fixed was LlOU
a year, and two or three occupants of the billet
have made a more-or-less failure of it. ihe l ui>
lic Service Board has made this an excuse for
doubling the salary attached to the
ditionally, of course, on the approval of Parlia-
ment. The new secretary is a high official from
one of the leading Ministerial departments, and
it is a well-known secret that the reason of this
transfer is the friction which exists m the depart-
ment concerned between the transferee and the
permanent head. The Service is chuckling over
the transaction.
Amusements.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
D Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
ooie lessee aiiu ” \
First Appearance of the World’s Greatest Pantomimists,
PAUL MARTINETTI
and his Renowned Great Company of Eight, in their
Latest Grand Production,
A TERRIBLE NIGHT.
WILLIAMS QUARTETTE, Mr. Tod Callaway, Dr. Leigh,
Dora Taylor, Eva Lee, Violet Bishop, E. Brinkman,
Fred Duncan, Alt. Lawton.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
■HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
CROWDED HOUSES.
Frank Harvey’s Great Emotional Drama,
The World Against Her.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d„ Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative Mr. Allan Hamilton.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY,
The Gay Lord. Quex.
SATURDAY, JULY 28, first production in Melb. of
THE TYRANNY OF TEARS,
by Mr. 0. Haddon Chambers. .
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies and
the Grand.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
(Late Alexandra).
Under the Direction of MY J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas.. Mr. R. Stewart.
FRIDAY, JULY, 27,
LAST NIGHT of NANCE O’NEIL as PEG WOFFINGTON.
SAT., JULY 28, NANCE O’NEIL as FEDORA.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 5s ; Stalls and Family Circle,
3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
•OWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, JULY 28, at 3 O’Olock,
Scberck’S Orchestra.
(50 Instrumentalists).
Principal Violin .. MR. GEORGE WESTON.
CONDUCTOR .. HERR BENNO SCHEREK.
POPULAR PROGRAMME, POPULAR PRICES:
3s. 2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
British b i o g r a p h.
(From Palace Theatre, London).
THE ONLY GENUINE BIOGRAPH IN AUSTRALASIA
WITH GENUINE BOER WAR FILMS.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Last Performances in Melbourne, Thursday and Friday
Afternoon and Evening, July 26 and 27.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY,
Commencing SATURDAY EVENING, JULY 28,
Four Weeks Only.
EXHIBITION
BUILDING,
MELBOURNE.
THE AQUARIUM.
WANTED some LIVE CROCODILES, over
15ft. in length. State Price, delivered alive,
and in good condition to
J. E. SHERRARD,
Secretary.
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Is a restorative and physical
regenerator of magic power. A
broken-down or weakened sys-
tem rejuvenated Vytol acts
on the nerves, brain & blood,
quickly & permanently restor-
ing to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of
youth. Price posted, 7/6 Kocke,
Tomusitt & Co., Druggi ts, 292
Flinders-street W., Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
" COMMON SEN SC EAR DRUM.”
pOMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
THE
DEA
HEAE
OUR ROYAL BLUE BOOK
is a 1900 publication, revised right up to the
beginning of this month. It contains 66
pages of interesting matter devoted ex-
clusively to our Federal Clothing Depart-
ment ; also 140 illustrations.
Kindly send us your address (on a penny
post-card will do) and we will post a copy to
you FREE.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
Federal Clothiers,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manaarer, Mr. J. 0. Wilha/mson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moufcne.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
1900. ANNUAL OPERA SEASON. 1900.
The WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY in
The Rose of Persia .
Plan, Nicholson’s. IBgr PRICES-58., 3s„ 2s„ and la.
-|- H EATRE ROYAL, SYDN EY.
BLAND HOLT’S
TRIUMPH OF TRIUMPHS.
The Absent-Minded Beggar .
AT.T, ENTHUSIASTIC! ALL FULL OF APPROBATION.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and la. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.""
Lessee and Manager .. •• Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
EVERY EVENING EXCEPT FRIDAY,
THE DUKE’S MOTTO ,
“I AM HERE”
FIFTH SHAKESPEARE FRIDAY.
FRIDAY, JULY 27,
“MERCHANT OF VENICE.”
WILL BE REPEATED.
QENTENARY HALL, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY, JULY 28.
The Enormous Advance Booking clearly denotes that
DONALD MACDONALD,
the Brilliant Australian War Correspondent’s SUCCESS
IN SYDNEY is assured at the outset.
Prices, 35., 2s. and Is.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
EDWIN GEAOH.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY^
Lessees Messrs. Wyld and Friedman.
Commencing SATURDAY EVENING, JULY 28,
and afterwards
TWICE DAILY
AFTERNOON, at 3,
EVENING, at 8.
IN SOUTH AFRICA WITH THE TROOPS, and First
Presentation in Sydney of the
Only Genuine JBiograph
in Australasia, direct from Palace Theatre, London, with
GENUINE WAR FILMS
taken at the front by the Biograph War Staff.
Prices of Admission—3s., 25., Is. No Early Doors or
Booking Fees. Children Half-price to Matinees Only.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
J. A. MILLER, Representative.
YCEUM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THIRD WEEK. THIRD WEEK.
EVERY AFTERNOON, EVERY EVENING,
at 3. at 8.
The Marvellous
Anglo-American Bio-Tableau,
Presenting Magnificent Animated Photographs of the
South African War, &c., &c.
Prices, 2s. and Is. Children Half-Price to all parts.
Fresh Films Every Week.
Elocutionary Recital,
T.M.C.A. Hall, Fitt-st., Wednesday, Any. 1.
MiSS Ada P. Natcbwcll.
(Incidental Music.)
Plan at Paling’s. Prices, 35., 25., Is.
J. EDWARD SYKES, Manager.
-pO THEATRICAL. COMPANIES.
TO LET by Tender, closing 2nd August, 1900,
the Town Hall, Young, for Show week (from 10th
to 15th September, 1900, inclusive), subject to
usual conditions. Deposit of 10 per cent, to
accompany tenders. Seating for over 500. Further
particulars can be obtained from
C. EDMUND SPARK,
Council Clerk.
Town Hall, Young, July 12,1900.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
TO-DAY, SATURDAY, JULY 28,
Re-appearance after an Absence of Eight Years of Eng-
land’s Greatest Favorite,
BILLIE BARLOW.
Splendid Success of EMMONDS, EMMERSON and
EMMONDS, PAUL’S 1900 CENTURY ANIMATOGKAPHE,
Billy M’Clain, M. Cordelia, Alma Gray, Roy Cashin, and
all our Great Double Co. Plan at Paling’s.
Registered under the “ Companies
Act, 1890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S.A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000,
Monthly Income, over £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £838,581.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
ORDER» r FORESTERS
Incorporated, by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 52 Vic. and 59 Vic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society,
The 1.0. P. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, but also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
EXAMPLES :
£lOO Policy.
Age 18 20 25 30 35 40 45 54
Monthly Premium Is. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd. 2s. lid. 3s. 6d. 4s. 4d/ 6s. Id.
Policies for £lOO, £2OO, £4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
Office foe South Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. McNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
■
Office for New South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 George St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus, with full Table of Rates, Ac., on Application.


THE
ONLY GOLD MEDAL
ever awarded at any International Exhibition in the World
SOldy for Toilet Soap was obtained by
wX
it»k
i
£
« F. PEARS
Reduced Fac-sitniL
of
GOLD MEDAL
awarded by ihe
juro/s of the
Paris Exhibition,
1889.
SOAP MAKERS,
BY
Special Appolntmc-j
TO ,
HER MAJE 6 i Y
The Queen
AND TO
His Royal His I—j
The Prince
of Wales.
Business Announcements.
Wi
i
USB
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
w
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning- and Polishing-
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) Cd. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Pressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shorn* Sculdlers. etc.
Medical-
£5 YEARStPIQViH
66
<99
V
OW
€m,
mi
Sk&sP&linS*
• SOP
'jfflfwSt /^te.? F ALL Chemists
2|j§|Fx (throughout Great Britain & the Colonies
LINUM CATHARTICUM Pills Purcl/%ruMc
“ s£ COACUUNE •
Transparent Cement for au: Broken Articles
JPIJIIIrfS.
FOR GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO,
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the onlv efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pnocrr & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.
ROCHESTER LOP6C
Collms Place East, Melbourne.
Private Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Terms Moderate. lrs - M ‘CLELLANI>,
Proprietress.
Publications.
SEARCH
THE
WIDE
WORLD
OVER
And you will not find any Musical Publications that
compare in variety or value with the
Australian..
Music Books
Price, 1/-
, . or . .
Posted, 1/2.
No. 52 (Just Published) contains
10 Pianoforte Sotos
of Moderate Difficulty.
No. 51 contains
25 Easy Pieces for Little Fingers
A Perfect Gem. Get it for your Children.
No. 50 THE GRIEG ALBUM, contains
21 Magnificent Pieces
By the Famous Composer, EDVARD GRIEG.
No. 49 contains
49 Little Songs for Tiny Voices
This is another splendid number you should have
■ for the Children. It is certainly a marvellous
Shilling’s worth.
No. 48 contains
11 Pianoforte Pieces
Moderately Difficult. A splendid Drawing-
room and Teachers’ Number.
No. 47 contains
12 Selected Songs
Including Gounod’s Serenade.
WRITE FOR FULL LIST, which will be sent
Post Free for the asking.
D*“ If either of the above Numbers are not obtainable
at your Musicseliers send direct to
|llan $ proprietary [td.
Music Publishers,
276 & 278 Collins st., Melbourne
THE SECRET SOCIETY, BY dr. hodgson, i»
HODGSON’S TALES OF MEDICAL STUDENTS.
All Booksellers and Stationers.
Wholesale : Edwards, Dunlop & Co. Ltd., Syd*
Books. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
Home Physician, £2 10s. for AT. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for 12 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R. W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh street, Sidney.
FOREIOKT STAMPS.
/"'HEAP SETS.—24 Cuba, Is 6d ;
40 Japan, Is 6d ; 11 Canada,
6d ; 16 Heligoland, Is ; 8 Bosnia,
6d ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ; 12 India Tele-
graphs, 6d ; 3 Victoria Queen on
Throne, 7s ; 8 Egypt, 6d : 11 Por-
tugal, 6d ;10 Bulgaria, 6d; Gibbons
Price Catalogue of Postage Stamps,
part 1., 2s 3d. Stamps purchased.
Catalogues ol Albums, Packets, etc., gratis. CHARLES
B. DONNE, 346 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
w
£
n
ILLUSTRATED
■BOOKLET of ß0 R 0 A K R s E
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
IX.LXJSTTIA.XED
/ )v*07/; 'TJ
k 7
WITH numerous anatomical
*' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) foi postage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box'402, G.P.O.,“ SYDNEY.
CAULFIELD & MKLBOLTKiSK CUPS, 1900.
J, J, MM M7STIIS PAMPHLET
Ajsd Aihlktic Hkcord.
_ Lrjce Is. All Booksellers auil Newsagents.
mn
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by I> r
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d .
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Sumer and Henderson, HYJiNJEY
The Drought in Kanakaland.
A pastoralist to The Bulletin oh the Queens-
land drought:—
To the ruinous '6B and ’B4 droughts, unhappy Mon-
golia has now added the big thirst of 1900 ; and of the
trinity the last is the worst. In the back-country the
battle put-up by squatters and cockies in the strenuous
attempt to save their stock is of the pluckiest. Modern
conditions have so changed the land since the droughts of
other times that the fight is now with previously untried
weapons—railway-fodder-importation among them—and
no one can say how far the new mode of defence makes
for success or failure until balancing-day, and that will be
the Lord knows when. About the Mitchell district,
under normal conditions one of the richest areas of pas-
toral country in the province, the destruction is fearful,
and the losses enormous. The grim misery of the gaunt,
naked, rainless downs, with their parched, cracked
bosoms, hangs like a death-pall over all, and gives point
to the drovers’ laconic summary, “ The run is like the
road." Mile after mile, stretch after stretch, the same
lurid horror grips the soul, and bony death stands guard
over heaps of dead sheep, cattle, horses, and even mar-
supials. But the miracle is, not in the dead, but in the
living—cramped into paddocks, existing in dumb agony
on what short grey tussocks of dried herbage remain,
and kept alive principally by the water from the artesian
bore. The rainfall for this district for the 17 months
ending last May was 12'67, or an annual fall of B’BB.
(roughly, 2-sths of the annual rainfall for the previous 20
years, notwithstanding the fact that this latter period in-
cluded the ’B4 thirst and that the 17 months covered the
two seasons at the begining of ’99 and the present year!)
And Fate, with her blind-eyed caprice, threw even this
small fall in scattered showers of no more use to the coun-
try than a cup of water would be to fill a tank. When the
blacksoil country is parched, any fall less than an inch is
less than valueless, and yet in the midst of this plain of
death two stations far apart had each copious falls, one of
them registering five inches in a single night. The latter
flourishes in magnificent harvest, while in a paddock
three miles off thousands of sheep are imprisoned by the
drought and taking their chance of life or death where
they stand. The large waterless areas which could be
formerly used for a short season to shift the stock on to
are all gone, talcen-up and improved, and the initiation of
artesian wells has actually tended to intensify the drought
horrors. Bores, wells, and tanks, in fact, have made
every inch of country available for stocking (and over-
stocking;), with the result that there is not a single pad-
dock that lias not been eaten clean out. The broad acres
of grass met with here and there in the droughts that
have gone before are missing this time, and, by contrast,
the unbroken nakedness of the present is a fearful spec-
tacle. Said one large owner : “ Why, in the *B4 drought
we had bush fires. Now you couldn’t make a bush fire
with 20 gallons of kerosene.” Also, the sweep of the
present drought is wider, and there can be no travel-
ling for grass and water. There is nowhere that
breadth of common-lands that proved such a source
of salvation in previous droughts ; the roads are
as hopeless as the runs, and the runs are hopelessness
itself. The aggregate number of sheep carried at normal
times in the Mitchell District was 1,860,000, but at pre-
sent there are only 670,000. Thus the runs are now only
carrying 86 p.c. of their ordinary complement, a reduc-
tion which corresponds closely with the decreased rainfall
for the last year-and-a-half, as compared with the average
of the previous 20 years. It is estimated that but 260,000
are on agistment at the coast; and, reckoning the sales
made at the beginning of the squeeze, a fair estimate of
the dead loss is 45 p.c The sheep remaining on the runs
also are hopeless frameworks, only kept alive by the
costly process of carting fodder to them for, in some in-
stances, 50 miles. Then there is the cost of transhipping
to the coast, the feeding at the railway-station before
they are sent (rendered necessary by the insufficiency of
rolling-stock); cost of agistment (£l2 per month per 1000
in most cases), and shepherding. Also the losses at the
coast from weather-conditions to which the sheep are un-
used ; the loss of the annual increase and the wool-
harvest, and that from the poor quality and light weight
of the fleeces that will be shorn. The railway figures for
the carriage of fodder give an idea of the expense of
hand-feeding the sheep. For the nine months preceding
May of last year 4942 ions were sent west for feed pur-
poses, but for the same period to May of this year 11,430
tons were sent. And—jade Fortune again ! —the small
owner, who was best prepared to. resist the siege, is the
biggest sufferer. The large stations, with every' foot
stocked to the fullest, were the first to feel the' pinch
through being eaten-out, and they moved first, grabbing
all available means o£. saving the stock. This was easy of ,
accomplishment, the runs being open, agistment cheap,
and the cost of shifting comparatively low. But the ;
lightly-stocked owners held out until a “ perish ” resulted, i
Later, when the brazen sky shall at last yield its
moisture, not much of a pull-round can result for a long,
long time ; and the country will be taxed, even with the
rains falling, to maintain the sheep left upon it. The
fearful spell of dry weather will thin out cruelly the rich
grasses, and, according to one old battler “ It’s
a piece of good fortune for the country that the
drought decimates the flocks, otherwise one big dry
season would rob the western downs of their best grasses
without a hope of recovery.” Nature provides that the
flocks recover their numbers as quickly as the earth re-
covers its powers of sustenance; but, this notwithstanding,
the sheep-industry has received a knock-down-blow.
Very little breeding can be done owing to the high price
ewes will be at, and as the products—wool, mutton,
tallow and sheepskins—will not rise, buyers of fresh stock
will be scarce. It will be a waiting game for all hands,
big and little, and the men who are threatened with total
ruin are facing the prospect with the pluck that is
deserving of reward.
The country far back from Winton has suffered in a
much greater degree than the Mitchell district, but as the
losses on the Barcoo side have not been so great, the
Mitchell offers a fair average of the existing state of
affairs.
“Fab. ” : That Tientsiu-Taku line of 30
odd miles opened within the last six years, is not
the first railway built in China. As an infant in
arms (about 1871) I journeyed from Shanghai to
Woosung, 13 miles, in absolutely the first train to
run in China. After a short and inglorious career
of a few months the local mandarins bought up
the plant, lock, stock, and barrel, and carted same
to Formosa, where in the jungle to this day are
rusting away thousands of pounds worth of ma-
terial. The reason alleged for this was that the
native carriers would be deprived of their liveli-
hood, but the real reason was that the local man-
darins feared the thin end of the wedge of civilisa-
tion—now, by the way, about to be hammered home
by 250,000 men
The Victorian Marine Court, after months
of hard mental struggle, has settled the Glenelg
problem. It finds that the vessel was quite sea-
worthy, and that it sunk owing to an extensive
leak, located in some place unknown to the Court,
and arising from causes which the Court was un-
able to ascertain. Also that “no blame attaches
to anybody.” Which, being boiled down, reads:
“’We find that a perfectly sound vessel broke up
suddenly.” This is about equivalent to a Coroner s
verdict: “The mature judgment of this Court is
that a perfectly healthy man fell down dead.”
A lady signing herself “Ixe” discourses to
The Bulletin on the ears of two honest N.S.W.
politicians who have thriven on the game :
At a woman’s franchise meeting other night ! sat at
back of platform behind lawmakers O’Sullivan and
M‘Gowen. Quite missed the political aspects of the meet-
ing through musing on the intellectual significance of
these gentlemen’s ears. There was, as the cables say, “a
large supply in sight.” O’S’s. auditoriums (a much nicer
word than “ lugs ”) are of the kind approved by Edison.
Very long, somewhat narrow, set close and perpendicular
to the head ; long, tough-looking lobes. When a man
conies to Edison seeking work he always looks first at his
ears, and always vainly for this type of ear. Men so eared
don’t work under other men. They are masters. Mr.
M’Gowen’s pair are unique. Set low, like a cocker
spaniel’s, and standing out from his head in several differ-
ent, but all obstinate, ways. They suited M’G.’sgreat voice
and shoulders and mat of black hair, but they didn’t suit
a friend of the female franchise. If those ears could be
tongues for a minute they would say “squaws” quite
loud. I looked up Max Nordau’s chapter on ears in
“ The Degenerates,” and find that M‘G. is saved mentally
and morally because his pair have escaped a certain angle
.n the setting.


LIBRARIES FOR NEW SOUTH WALES HOMES
A LIMITED NUMBER
OF SETS OF . . .
REPRINT OF THE
Encyclopaedia Britanniea
dfc w imiktth bditiomt —tub latest^
For distribution in New South Wales at less than Half-Price, and upon terms of payment quite as unprecedented, placing this “National Standard Work of Refer-
ence ” within easy reach of ah who will make prompt application. A Complete Library for practical reference as well as for pleasurable and profitable reading may
now be secured by anyone who can make the necessary preliminary payment of One Guinea.
A COMPLETE SET OF TWENTY-FIVE LARGE QUARTO VOLUMES
Will be delivered to the Subscriber, all at one time, when One Guinea has been paid, and the remaining easy instalments may be met at intervals of one month each.
The Subscriber thus enjoys the use of the Library while he is paying for it. Besides, he is securing
A £37 Work for a Total Outlay of Seventeen Guineas.
A price lower than the lowest wholesale price at which the work was formerly sold to Booksellers. A further saving may be effected by those who elect to make one
payment of the whole sum in advance, and thus profit by the additional discount of one shilling in the guinea. The price for immediate payment thus becomes £l7 as
against £37, the publishers’ price for the set in cloth binding; and thousands of sets have been sold in the United Kingdom for £37 each. The New Reprint is in e y
respect equal to that which the publishers sold at the higher price; it is printed from the same plates, the paper is as good, and the binding as durable and as beautiful.
The same work, but for the moment at a very different price; it is an opportunity for a great saving, and those who order promptly will profit by it.
THE OFFER.
The sensation of the bookselling season in Lon-
don, the remarkable offer of “ The Times ’ Re-
print of the “Encyclopaedia Britannica” (9th
edition), is already known to residents in Lew
South Wales who read “ The Times.” No less
than 15,000 copies of the massive work were
printed, but applications were received in rapid
succession for more than 26,000.
Widespread disappointment was occasioned by
the enforced refusal of a great number of orders,
and residents in New South Wales were, owing to
the delay in communicating with London, pecu-
liarly unfortunate in this respect.
What “The Times” did for residents in Eng-
land it now proposes to do for residents in New
South Wales. Arrangements have been made for
a limited number of copies for distribution in New
South Wales. The price and terms upon which
these copies may be obtained are stated in detail
below, and immediate application should be made
by persons who desire to avail themselves of this
extraordinary opportunity.
A Few oe the
Contributors
TO THE
“ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA.”
Among the eleven hundred writers whose articles
appear in the ninth edition of the “ENCYCLO-
PEDIA BRITANNICA” are these representa-
tive men of our time:
Rt. Hon. James Bryce
Lord Kelvin
Alg. Chas.' Swinburne
Alex. Bain
Bishop of London
“ Cavendish”
Sir Robert Ball
Elle Reel us
Sir Walter Besant
Dean Bradley
Prof. Jebb
Andrew Lang
Sir Rutherford Alcock
Prof. Caird
Mrs. M. G-. Fawcett
Austin Dobson
Canon Rawlinson
Prof. Huxley
W. M. Morris
Prof. Max Muller
Lord Rayleigh
Sir Wm. Crookes
Rt. Hon. John Morley
Mrs. Humphry Ward
Sir Arch. Geikie
Sir George Reid
Sir Richard Temple
Sir Norman Lockyer ,
Sir Richard Starchey
Sir W. W. Hunter
Prof. Sidgwick
W. E. Henley
W. M. Rossetti
Prof. Dewar
Rev. H. R. Haweis
Geo. W. Cable
Matthew Arnold
John Addington Sy-
monds
Dean Farrar
Lord Grimthorpe
Principal Tullock
Prof. Skeat
Prof. Ray Lankester
Sir Fred. Pollock
Lord Houghton
Sidney Colvin
Prof. Sainsbury
Pro. Sulley
Edmund Gosse
Rt. Hon. L. Courtney
Edmund Ware
Sir Frederick Abel
General Maurice
Grant Allen
St. George Mivart
R. Louis Stevenson
Prof. Ramanes
To select, in this fashion, the names of but one
contributor out of every score who collaborated
upon the “ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNIC A”
is not an altogether satisfactory process. Yet, in
reading over these names, one is at any rate im-
pressed by the fact that the contributors to the
“ ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNIC A ” are not
merely specialists with great information, but
original thinkers. They are men who have them-
selves influenced our thoughts and beliefs, have
directed, even created, contemporary taste and
learning.
PAMPHLET POST FREE.
The “ ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA ”
is the only work which can fairly be described as
a complete library in itself, and to own it is, as
Mr. Gladstone said, “ to acknowledge one’s self as
recognising the best there is in literature.” To
have such a work always at hand is a silent invita-
tion to wholesome reading and high thinking.
Only an actual examination of the volumes them-
selves, only actual use from day to day, can dis-
close that. Yet, for the information of the reader,
if you are unacquainted with this splendid work,
there will be sent, post free, upon application, a
handsome pamphlet containing brief extracts from
some seventy or eighty notable articles contained
in the “ ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA,”
together with fine coloured plates and other speci-
mens of the ten thousand illustrations with which
the “ENCYCLOPAEDIA” is adorned. The
cover of the pamphlet is decorated with vignette
portraits of thirty-six notable contributors.
All orders and correspondence should be
directed to The Manager, “The Time s” (London).
New South Wales Office : Mutual Life of New
York Buildings, Martin Place, Sydney.
A
: > TM# & % •
hi
''
' ' ' / "£W
, nffg
jf
life
,; ,HfiSiti
J
THE SPECIAL BOOKCASE.
Temporary Prices for the 25 Volumes .
IPP“ Sufficient provision has been
made for the filling 1 of orders
promptly posted, but applicants
who hesitate may find that the
number of sets reserved for New
South Wales has been exhausted,
and that the offer has been with-
drawn, without further notice.
CLOTH
BINDING
HALF
MOROCCO
(Which we
recommend)
FULL
MOROCCO
17 Monthly Payments of One Guinea, each
or, if cash in full accompanies the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £37]
£l7
22 Monthly Payments of One Guinea each,
or, if cash in full accompanies the order ,
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £4s]
£22
29 Monthly Payments of One Cuinea each,
or, if cash in full accompanies the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £6s]
£29
The Sets will be Delivered to Subscribers Carefully Sealed in Tin-lined Cases.
The first 1000 Subscribers in New South Wales will receive their Sets Delivered
Free of Cost as far as Sydney! where stock is carried temporarily.
ORDER FORM—CASH PAYMENT.
Subscribers who elect to send Cheque
in full with the order have the advan-
tage of an additional saving of one shilling in the guinea, as shown above, and no order form is required. Cheques
should be drawn to the order of the Bank of New South Wales, Sydney, and sent to Tub Timjss (London),
Mutual Life of New York Buildings, Sydney.
. ORDER FORM—MONTHLY PAYMENT.
(Date) ... .. . ......
To the Manager, “Tiie Times” (London), New South Wales Office,
Mutual Life of New York Buildings, Sydney.
I enclose One Guinea. Please send me “ The Times ” Reprint of the Encyclopedia Britannica (9th Ed.)
BOUND
IN
(a) CLOTH, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone you may ap-A
point, 16 additional monthly payments of one guinea each.
(b) HALF MOROCCO, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone you I
may appoint, 21 additional monthly payments of one guinea each, j
(c) FULL MOROCCO, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone you I
may appoint, 28 additional monthly payments of one guinea each. J
[Strike out two of the
paragraphs marked a,
b, and c respectively,
leaving the one which
names the style of
binding desired.]
my next payment upon delivery of the complete volumes, and my succeeding payments on the corresponding day of
each month following. Until such payments are complete, I engage that the volumes remain your property, and
shall not he disposed of by sale or otherwise. I further agree that if, owing to unforseen circumstances, of which you
shall be the judge, the volumes cannot be delivered, the return of this deposit of one guinea to me shall cancel the
agreement.
Please also send a Revolving Bookcase , for which I agree to make three further
payments of one guinea each, after the payments for the books are complete.
Strike out if Bookcase
is uot desired.
[Syd. Bul. A. 6]
Signed..
Occupation
Address
If books are to be delivered elsewhere than in Sydney, the purchaser shall add here the name of the
carrier (rail or boat) in Sydney to whom delivery is to be made for forwarding.
MONTHLY PAYMENT.
The instalment system of selling hooks is by no
means a new one, but the plan of sale adopted by
“ The Times ” (London) is a direct inversion of the
familiar process. The old theory of selling a large
book in parts was that the purchaser received the
volumes in driblets, and paid for them in drib-
lets. This plan apparently gave the purchaser a
great advantage—the convenience of gradual pay-
ments —but the gain was only a nominal one. He
did not have to pay t’.ie purchase price in one
lump sum ; but, on the other hand, he got no real
value for his money until he had completed his
payments, for the incomplete parts gave him no
more than a mockery of possession.
“ THE TIMES ” presents the convenience and
eliminates the inconvenience of the old process.
The complete work is delivered as soon as the
purchaser begins to make his real payments; the
only postponement in the transaction is for the
purchaser’s benefit; he enters into immediate and
complete possession of the work, and pays for it
at leisure.
Special attention is directed to the fact that a
stock of the Encyclopaedia Britannica is carried in
Sydney for the filling of immediate orders, thus
saving the purchaser the carriage cost from
London, as well as avoiding the necessary delay
in receiving the work that has heretofore prevailed
when orders were sent to London.
Readers who file their copies of The Bulletin,
and desire to leave this page uncut, may, upon
application to the Manager of “The Times,”
obtain an Order Form similar to that here printed.
THE NATION’S BIG: BOOK.
The “ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA”
(Ninth Edition) consists of 24 volumes of 850
pages each, and of a 25th volume containing an
elaborate index to the whole and a detailed list of
contributors. The volumes are Ilf inches in
height, 94 inches in depth, and 2A inches in thick-
ness. The Full Morocco and Half Morocco bind-
ings are of genuine goat-skins, sumach-tanned.
This leather, clear in colour, elastic and soft, yet
firm and fine in grain and texture, “resists wear
and tear and the action of gas and heated air
better than any other leather.” (Ency. Brit. vol.
xiv. p. 538.) The colour of the Half Morocco is a
deep maroon, relieved by the gold stamping on the
back. The Full Morocco binding is of high-class
leather, dark green in colour, with rolled gold
edges, and the Royal Arms stamped in gold on
the side.
In addition to the 30,000,000 words which oc-
cupy the 22,000 pages, the Encyclopaedia contains
338 full-page plates and 071 smaller maps and
plans. There are over 9000 illustrations in all.
For the MS. alone a sum of more than £OO,OOO was
paid to the 1100 contributors, and the printing,
illustrating, and binding, which are of the highest
quality, entail so much expenditure that the En-
cyclopaedia unquestionably is the most costly pro-
duction ever offered to the public.
The ninth edition of the “ Encyclopaedia Bri-
tannica ”is the National Work of Reference. No
steps will be taken towards preparing a tenth
edition for many years, and when a new edition
is undertaken, it will require least 12 or 15
years to complete it. The present edition, with
the supplement now in preparation, will therefore
be the standard work of reference for at least 15
or 20 years to come.
THE SPECIAL BOOKCASE.
Some people may hesitate to take advantage of
“ THE TIMES ” offer, simply because they have
no shelf-room for the volumes. “ THE TIMES ”
cut down the price of the “ENCYCLOPAEDIA
BRITANNICA ” by over 50 per cent., but the
size of the volumes—like their quality—remains
unchanged. And the cost of a Bookcase large
enough to hold the 25 massive volumes would,
under ordinary conditions, be a serious addition to
the cost of the “ENCYCLOPAEDIA.”
For the convenience, therefore, of those who
subscribe through “THE TIMES,” a handsome
Revolving Bookcase has been specially designed to
receive the “ENCYCLOPAEDIA.” Subscribers
who elect to pay for the work in monthly instal-
ments of one guinea each, will, if they desire the
Bookcase, be called upon to make three further
monthly payments (after the payments for the
“ ENCYCLOPAEDIA ” have been completed).
Subscribers who pay for their sets in «ash may
procure the Bookcase by remitting a cheque for £3
The only thing that can deprive anyone of his share in the benefits of this special enterprise of “The Times” is neglecting to apply in time,
for so long as they last these magnificent sets will go to the first who apply. One set is for you if your application reaches us in time. It is a case of “ A Prize
■for the Prompt ” —a prize in sovereigns—sovereigns that go to make up the amount saved by ordering your set of the “ Eneyclopaidia Britannica ” NOW.


THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS,
AND
Agency Company Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1878.
DIRECTORS :
F. K. GODFREY, Esq., Chairman.
,ROBT. MURRAY SMITH, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice-Chairman.
JOHN GRICE, Esq. | O. M. OFFICER, Esq. | Hon. J. M. PRATT, M.L.O.
JAS. BORROWMAN, Manager. FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
CAPITAL :
Subscribed, £150,000. Further Reserve Liability, £150,000. Paid-up, £90,000.
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits, £9067 7s. 3d.
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, and Clients, at 30th June, 1900, £6,329,655 13s! 3d.
Notice is hereby given, that the Forty-fifth ORDINARY HALF-YEARLY MEETING of the shareholders of the
above company will he held in the board-room at the company’s offices, No. 412 Collins-street, on MONDAY, 30th
INST., at eleven o’clock.
BUSINESS :
1. To receive the directors’ report and balance-sheet for the half-year ended 30th June, 1900.
2. To elect a director in the place of Mr. R. Murray Smith, who retires in accordance with the articles of
association, but is eligible for re-election, and offers himself accordingly.
3. To consider any other business that may be brought before the meeting, of which due notice shall have
been given.
REPORT:
The improved value of the preference shares in the Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank, the directors con-
sider, warrants their value being restored to £1 per share in the balance-sheet, and this increase, with £3600 from the
balance of profit and loss account, has been transfered to a reserve fund.
The amount remaining at credit of profit and loss account, and available for distribution, is £4067 7s. 3d., which
the directors recommend should be appropriated as follows : _
To dividend on £93,000 for half-year ended 30th June, 1900, at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum .. £2,250 0 0
'To balance to be carried forward .; 1,817 7 3
412 Oollins-street, Melbourne, 16th July, 1900.
By order of the board. £4,067 7 3
JAS. BORROWMAN, Manager.
The Trustees, Eocecutors and Agency Company, Limited.
PROFIT and LOSS ACCOUNT, Half-year ended 30th June, 1900.
Dr.
1900 —June 30.
To salaries, directors’ and auditors’ fees,
including agencies .. £3,900 9 9
To stationery, postage, and office expenses 705 18 9
To. printing and advertising 308 10 4
To furniture and fittings 55 1 5
To law costs .. .. .. .. 52 16 0
£5,022 16 3
To allowance for widow of late managing
director 250 0 0
To‘'differenee in amount paid and received
on lease 37 Queen-street 282 0 0
To difference in amount paid in connection
with mortgage on premises and received
on investment of £21,400 247 10 6
To reserve fund transfer ~ .. .. 3,600 0 0
To balance carried down .. ... .. 4,067 7 3
£13,469 13 11
Or.
1899 —December 31.
By balance .. : £6,946 1 10
Less dividend at the rate of 5 per cent,
per annum .. 2,250 0 0
1900 —June 30.
By interest on mortgages, stock, &c. .. 598 9 1
By commissions and miscellaneous receipts,
after providing for contingencies .. 9,089 17 0
By Company’s Premises—
Rents £294 12 0
Less rates, lift, and repairs .. 209 6 0
B5 6 0
£13,469 13 11
1900—June 30.—8 y balance ..
.. £4,067 7 3
BALANCE SHEET.
30th JUNE, 1900.
D*.
Capital—
Subscribed £160,000 0 0
Less uncalled .. .. 60,000 0 0
60,000 shares paid-up to £llos. per share.. £90,000 0
Reserve fund (used in the Company’s busi-
ness) .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,000 0
Money owing on open account, &c 89 19
Debt due on mortgage of freehold property 20,000 0
Profit and loss account .. ... 4,067 7
0
0
5
0
3
£119,157 6 8
Ca.
Investments—
Inscribed stock, at par, held by the
Treasurer of Victoria £lO,OOO 0 0
Inscribed stock, at par 3,000 0 0
Money lent on mortgage, at face value .. 6,374 2 4
Money lent against interests of benefici-
aries, at face value 8,053 18 0
Investments set aside to meet mortgage
on freehold property—
Money lent on mortgage, at
face value .. .. .. £2,600 0 0
Australian Deposit and Mort-
gage Bank—
Deposits, at face value .. 16,000 0 0
2800 £5 preference shares at
£1 per share 2,800 0 0
21,400 0 0
£48,828 0 4
Freehold property at cost .. 69,348 2 10
Less written off .. .. 4,348 210
65,000 0 0
Furniture and fittings at cost 954 4 10
Less written off .. .. 454 410
5OO 0 0
Debts due to the Company other than those
abovementioned, amounts paid in ad-
vance, &c '724 7 11
Cash to credit in Bank of Australasia .. 4,104 18 5
£119,157 6 8
RESERVE ELM),
1900 —June 30.
To balance.. „ M „ „ ..£5,000 0 0
£5,000 0 0
1900—June 30.
By Australian Deposit and Mortgage Bank,
2800 preference shares restored to £1 per
share
By profit and loss
£1,400 0 0
3,600 0 0
£5,000 0 0
1900—June 30. —By balance ..
.. £5,000 0 o
TRUST, EXECUTOR, and AGENCY BUSINESS .
CONTINGENT and OTHER LIABILITIES OTHER-
WISE than in RESPECT of any of the ABOVEMEN-
TION ED ITEMS.
Amount at credit of estates, trusts, and
clients, represented by investments and
cash at bankers, as per contra .. ..£6,329,655 13 3
£6,329,655 13 3
CONTINGENT ASSETS.
Advances on mortgage of real estate . .£1,915,798 19 10
Debentures and stock 759,938 5 9
Landed property 2,530,887 2 11
Other securities 1,079,893 3 ?
Cash at bankers at credit of trust current
accounts 43,138 1 7
£6,329,655 13 3
Mrs. WALSH E’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
( Registered.)
'T'HESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and may be safely taken by the most
delicate without fear. Being non-poisonous, and with a
decided and sure specific action, they can always be relied
on to afford immediate relief. Price, sent anywhere,
ss. 6d. per box. Obtainable at Kocke, Tompsitt, and Co.,
Druggists, 272 Flinders-street, Melbourne.
Do Not Seek Assistance
From New # Untried Sources
but of the Old, Well Tried, and Reliable
The Renowned CURE
for Drunkenness. Can
be given Secretly or
otherwise. Book and
Particulars Free.
Address orcall on The Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney
or 271 Collins-street, Melbourne, Vio.
EUCRASY
Publishers’ Notices.
WAR MUSIC FREE!
Transvaal March, with Portrait of Buller.
Blue ” ” •• Kitchener.
MacDonald „ „ .. Marnn« a y
Sons*” colonial alioes.
Pratt s Chart of Chords Teaches Piano or Organ
Playing in One Day. A Complete Self-Instructor, en-
abling brilliant accompaniments to be played without diffi-
cuity to any son g . The Simplest and most Comprehensive
Chart Published. Endorsed by teachers and musicians.
FXtEE.
The Price of Pratt’s Chart alone is 55., but to
introduce it into every home we will send
Free the Giant'Album of 184 Songs, words and music, con-
taining many old and new favourites, together with the Chart
for only 2s. 6d.; posted, 2s. Bd.; stamps, 2d. extra. Add two
extra stamps for extra postage and packing if you want anv of
the above Marches Free. Add exchange to postal notes
Anglo-American Publishing Co., 458 George Street'
Sydney, N.S.W. Mention this p-per when writing.
JUST OUT, FOURTH EDITION.
Price ss. 6d., Posted.
tfl
by P, R. GORDON,
Chief Inspector of Stock and Brands,
(Queensland.
With New Stock Route Maps of
Queensland and New South Wales.
WATSON, FERGUSON & CO., Brisbane
And all Booksellers.
STOPS COLD
This Well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Safe and pleasant for Children.
m
nm
‘I use a good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had Whooping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.”—E. M. V., The Kims,
June, 1898. Faringdon.
AGENTS—Elliott; Hoffnung; Duerdin;
A. Drug Co.; Felton; Faulding; Falk.
CURES COUGH
ONE HUNDRED AND FOURTH HALF-YEARLY REPORT
—OB’—
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
LIMITED.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Head Banking House, George-street,
Sydney, on Friday, 20th July, 1900.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders a Balance-Sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of the Bank on the
30th June, 1900, and present the following report :
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account, after deducting rebate on current bills and accrued interest
on fixed deposits, reducing premises account, paying note tax, and providing for land and income
taxes and bad and doubtful debts, amounts to £70,151 12 0
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations :
To the payment of a Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 10 per cent, per
annum .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £50,000 0 0
„ Balance being undivided Profit ~ , .. ’ .. .. \. .. .. 20,151 12 0 £70,151 12 0
The Board record, with feelings of regret, the death during the half-year of Mr. John de Villibrs Lamb, an
Auditor of the Bank. The vacancy thus created was filled by the appointment of Mr. Wilfrid Law Docker.
A Requisition having been received from twenty-one members of the Company, holding in the aggregate Five
Hundred Shares and upwards in the capital of the Company, requiring the Directors to convene an Extraordinary
General Meeting of the Company for the purpose of considering certain alterations in the Articles of Association, the
Directors have convened an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company to be held at the Head Banking-House
of the Company on Friday, the 20th July, at 12.15 o’clock in the afternoon, due notice of which has been given by
advertisement, as provided by the Articles of Association.
This Meeting is called upon to elect a Director, consequent on the retirement, in terms of the Articles of Associa-
tion, of the Honorable Henry Moses, M.L.C., who is eligible for re-election, and has given the requisite notice that
he is a candidate for the office. It also rests with the Meeting to appoint Auditors for the ensuing year.
The Dividend, free of Income Tax, is now payable.
EDWARD KNOX, Chairman.
Dr.
LIABILITIES AND ASSETS.
(INCLUDING LONDON BRANCH TO JUNE 30, BY CABLE.)
Or.
8. d.
To Capital
„ Reserve Fund
„ Reserve Capital
. £1,000,000 0 0
, 1,010,000 0 0
. 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
To Capital Paid-up .. £1,000,000 0 o
„ Reserve Fund .. 1,010,000 0 0
2,010,000 0
Notes in circulation 427,859 0
Bills in circulation 1,013,952 15
Deposits and other liabilities .. 11,134,776 16
Profit and Loss Account .. ... 76,325 17
£14,662,914 8 6
£ s. cL
By coin and bullion in
hand .. ..£2,239,129 1
~ Gold in transit to
London .. .. 290,000 0
, Cash at Bankers .. 142,221 4
„ Government
securities . .. 1,299,731 7
„ New South Wales
Government .. 360,000 0
~ Queensland Govern-
ment Notes .. 46,368 0
~ Remittances in
transit .. .. 792,451 6
~ Notes and bills of
other banks .. 27,918 15
6
0
9
9
0
0
4
9
~ Bills discounted, and all debts due
to the Bank
~ Bank premises, furniture, &c.
5,197,819 16 1
9,045,094 12 6
420,000 0 0
£14,662,914 8 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Rebate on current bills £6,174 6 4
„ Dividend Account for payment of a Divi-
dend for past half-year at the rate of 10
per cent, per annum .. .. .. 60,000 0 0
„ Balance of undivided profit carried to
next Half-year.. „ „ .. .. 20,15112 0
£76,325 17 4
By Amount undivided from laat half-year . .£19,271 16 11
~ Profit for Half-year ended 30th June,
1900 67,054 0 6
£76,326 17 4
RESERVE FUND.
1000—June 30th £1,010,000 0 0
EDWARD KNOX, Chairman,
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
A. J. SOUTAR, Accountant.
Sydney, 16th July, 1900.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances, and counted the coin in the Head
Office of Tub Commercial Banking Company op Sydney, Limited, and have compared the returns of the Branches,
and have found the same as specified in the foregoing- Balance Sheet.
F. T. HUMPHERYI
W. L. DOCKER /
Auditors.
The following resolutions were carried unanimously
“ That the Report and Statements of Account be received and adopted, and ordered to be circulated
among the Proprietors.”
“ That the Honorable Henry Moses, M.L.0., be re-elected a Director of the Bank.”
“ That W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Oape, Esq., be appointed Auditors for the ensuing year.”
“ That the thanks of the Shareholders be presented to the Directors, General Manager, and Officers of the
Bank for their very satisfactory management of the affairs of the institution.”
T. A. DIBBS, General Manager.
In moving the adoption of the Report, the Chairman, Sir Edward Knox, said :
I have the pleasure to inform you that the Directors consider that the time has arrived when they feel warranted
in recommending the increase of the dividend to 10 per cent, per annum, a step which, having regard to the times the
colony has passed through since 1893, will doubtless meet with the approval of the Shareholders. It is satisfactory
to note the improved prospects of trade and the increased value of properties generally. Useful rains have fallen
throughout the greater portion of New South Wales and in many parts of Queensland, giving hopes of a better har-
vest and clip of wool. The mining industry is now more systematically and successfully pursued than formerly,
while the. South African war has opened up a new market for our meats, horses and forage, and it is thought by many
that at its termination a still greater opening for Australian trade and enterprise will be established.
Comparing the volume of business with that of twelve months ago, you will find progression marked in every
line of the Balance Sheet. On the debit side the increases have been in the—
Notes in Circulation from .. .. .. .. .. £398,000 to £427,000
Bills .. .. .. .. .. .. 776,000 „ 1,013,000
Deposits, &c. .. .. .. .. .. .. 10,267,000 „ 11,134,000
Profit .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 64,000 ~ 76,000
While on the credit side the increases have been in the—
Coin and Bullion from
Gold in transitu to London and cash at bankers
Government Securities
New South Wales Government
Queensland Government Notes
Remittances in transit
Notes of other banks
Bills discounted and other debts due
The total amount of cash and liquid assets increased from
While the gross total of the Balance sheet amounts to ..
£1,975,000 to
424,000 „
1,281,000 „
Nil
41,000 „
600,000 „
26,000 „
8,747,000 ~
4,350,000 „
£2,239,000
432,000
1,299,000
300,000
46,000
792,000
27,000
9,045,000
5,197,000
£14,662,000
Or an increase of the business by £1,146,659 during the past year. This also must be satisfactory to the proprietors.
Since our last meeting the Federation of the Australian Colonies has progressed to the extent that the Imperial
Parliament has passed the Commonwealth Bill. Hitherto it has not been the province of the Bank to take part in
political matters, but the Directors were impelled to take prompt action, in the interests of all banks and financial
institutions, with regard to the 74th Clause of the Bill, and joined with three other Colonial banks in a petition to the
Home Government, praying that the right of appeal to the Privy Council, as now existing, shall be maintained in its
entirety. We have now been informed by cable through the public press that the Attorney-General of England has
stated that due provision has been made in the Bill, giving the right of appeal to all of Her'Majesty’s subjects.
I have to advise the receipt of a requisition to the Directors signed by the Honorable H. C. Dangar and twenty
other Shareholders, holding in the aggregate upwards of 2000 shares, to make certain alterations in the Articles of
Association. Mr. Dangar has also given notice that he intends to move certain resolutions to carry out the wishes of
the petitioners. An Extraordinary General Meeting has therefore been called to discuss the resolutions, which will
take place at the close of this Meeting, and I shall be glad if the shareholders will remain in their places till 12.15
p.m., the hour that has been fixed for the Meeting.
I have much pleasure in moving the adoption of the Report.
n
RtiptOrc
CCired^*-
WHEN we say “RUPTURE CURED"
we mean it, for it is a fact that
thousands of cures have been accomplished by Dr.
Pierce’s World-renowned ELECTRIC TRUSS during
the past twenty-five years. There is nothing else like it
on earth ! It does the work! Have received so many
letters and testimonials that we hardly know what to do
with them all. If ruptured investigate at once. Our
prices are reasonable, but not , heap. We make no dis-
counts. “Dr. Pierce’s” is THE Truss, and you cannot
be happy till you get it.
You can get our “ BOOKLET No. 1 ” for nothing by
calling, or it will be sent to you on receipt of a stamp.
It tells all about this TRUSS. Address :
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO., U.S.A.; or
160 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
LADIES.-^-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins Bt., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins St.j Melbourne.
Realser-maim Hollow Ground
r\#»
s 5»
.. ° Warranted f
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLAD c c
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.« LONDON
[A Card.] Established 1853.
Mr. ROBERT BYRNE,
LAND and ESTATE AGENT,
GOVERNMENT VALUER . . .
3SS Collins Street tVest (Ground Floor)
** tSTT Melbou,ne <* Heidelberg.
Properties in City and Suburbs, and placed on Registry
List without Charges. Loans Negotiated. Tel. 1260. '


“Struck Down for Death/"
His Own Words.
Experts said he could not be cured
HIS PERFECT CURE A SURPRISE TO EVERYBODY.
(From the Freeman’s Journal.)
(by our own report**.)
Mr. J. Hawkes, of Hawkesview,
Guildford, N.S.W., is now one of the
strongest and healthiest-looking men one
could meet in a day’s march. We heard
that for five long years he had been a terrible
sufferer, and that a course of Clements
Tonic had completely restored his health,
so this paper (The Freeman’s Journal , Syd
aey) dispatched a reporter to see him.
“ You look as though you’d never had a
lay’s illness in your life,” said our reporter
>n seeing Mr. Hawkes.
“I may look well enough new,” was the
reply, “ and
My Health is Perfect,
but once I was struck down for death. The
doctors have given me up, and it seemed as
though nothing remained for me hut to
settle my affairs of this world and prepare
ior the next.”
**‘You must have had a narrow squeak,
then. What first caused your illness t”
I ** It must have been coming on for a long
time before it showed itself. My ©ocupation
was very trying. I was a market gardener,
and I carted large quantities of vegetables
to the Belmore Markets. This necessitated
getting up very early in the morning, and,
as a matter of fact, I often waited up all
night so as to he first in the field ana get
the best prices. My meals I got at very
irregular hours. I began to get a
Queer, Giddy Feeling,
whioh I can hardly describe, and one day,
after I came back from the markets, I was
seized with a fit. That was the beginning.
I temporarily got better of this attack, but
I was a changed man. Shooting pains
would suddenly dart through my back and
head, after which a feeling of sickness and
Faintness would Overwhelm
ne. My digestion went all wrong, and
vhat little I ate dud. no good, for I got more
ike a confirmed invalid every day.’
“ Did you see a doctor T”
“ Yes, several; but they didn’t know
/hat was the matter at first; but seme of
them said I was suffering from a sluggish
and disordered Hver, and they gave me a
whole host of directions as to diet and how
I was to live, besides any quantity of medi-
cines. K tided hot bandages to my back and
abdomen, but got no relief from thorn, nor
did the doctors’ physic do me any permanent
good. AH day long I was in such a sluggish
state that I eared for nothing. I was in a
sort of sluggish
Stupor or Lethargy,
vhich never left me. I suffered in this way
ior over five years. At last I got into such
a Respondent state that when I wished to
see the doctor I was too nervous to drive to
his house. I was frightened of going off
through the shaking of the ©art, so I was
forced to accept what support I could get
from a friend, and crawl along with him and
’he help of a stick.
I had got so Weak
that I couldn’t walk without a stick. _ My
face was drawn, and anyone could see in it
the pallor of a long-continued disease. What
I have described was my usual state, but
every now and again the shooting pains in
my head and back would become more in-
tense, and then I should have another fit.
Thinking that perhaps I could obtain better
treatment I
Went to the Hospital.
Three doctors there gave me a long and
very careful examination, but they could
not tell definitely what was the matter.
And all their medicines and attention failed
to cure me. Every doctor asked me the
same question, ‘What is the matter with
you ?
This Silly Question,
in my enfeebled state, used to rouse and
irritate me. ‘ That’s what I came to you to
know,’ I replied.”
“ Your case must have seemed hopeless ?”
** Yes; I had very little hope of ever
getting better. I became very low-spirited*
I took jx 9 interest in anything. I
Consulted an Expert
in liver disease. He told me that my livei
was in a very bad state, and led me tc
understand t' at
I Could Never Expect
to be cured; so I gave up all hope of getting
better again. I resigned myself to my fate.
I felt that I was already in the grasp of
Death, and lay in bed expecting my end.
“ You cheated death, however, judging
by your appearance.”
“Yes, and this is how it happened. My
nephew recommended Clements Tonic. I
got some, hoping it would at least relieve
me.” .
“ And did it Mr. Hawkes ?”
“ The first dose was more use than all the
other medicines I had tried. It was very
effective, for it
Struck at the Root
of my complaint. From the first Clement.-.
Tonic had a stimulating action on my liver.
The pains in my back were soon easier, and
my head felt lighter and clearer than it- had
done for a long time.”
“ Did you still have fits ?”
« No, not a fit; it stopped them at once,
persevered with Clements Tonic, and it
was plain to everyone that I was getting
better daily. I
lacked the Doctors and scorned
their prescriptions. Their me-
dicines did not touch my dis-
ease. Clements Tonic cured it,
and all the evils went away without my being
aware of it. My appetite returned, I put
on flesh again, and soon got strong. I lost
all that tired weary feeling of lassitude and
was quite bright and cheerful, and instead
of sitting half stupefied in a chair all day or
Lying like a Log
in bod, I folt lively aßd energetic. A few
weeks’ treatment with Clements Tonic quite
restored me, but, of course after five long
years’ illness one cannot expect to
Rebuild a Wasted System
In week, bat the way Clements Tonic
brought me along was a perfect surprise, not
only to me, but to everybody. The only
regret I have new is that I had not been
lucky enough to strike Clements Tonic at
the start. If I had known its value earlier
that first attack would have been my last,
and I should have saved
Five Lone Years of Suffering*
I am thankful, however, that I came across
Clements Tonic when I did— * Better late
than never.’ It entirely eradicated all
disease from my system, and did what
doctor’s physic could not do in all those
years. In short, it saved my life.”
“ And may I publish your endorsement,
Mr. Hawkes?”
“ Certainly, it is the simple truth that
I have told you ; I am here to prove it, and
all the neighbours know I was
Knocking at Death’s Door
for five years. I have proved Clements
Tonic a genuine article ; I owe my life to it.
Why should I, or anybody else, object or be
ashamed to endorse such a valuable medicine.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I Jaurs Hawkrs, of Hawkes view, Guilford,
in the Colony of New South Wales do solemnly
and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of eleven folios and
consecutively numbered from one to eleven, and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account
of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and
also contains my full permission to publish ihesame m
any way; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of an Aot made and passed in
the ninth year of the reign of her present Majesty,
intituled "An Aot for the more effectual abolition of
Oaths and Affirmations taken and made in the
various Departments of the Government of New
South Wales, and to substitute Declarations in heu
thereof, and for the suppression of voluntary ana
WtT* - judicial Oaths and Affidavits."
>eclared at Fairfield this sixth day of July, 189?
016 WILLIAM STIMSON, J.P.,
Fairfield.
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
beware of substitutions.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves iu the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot ’{d.Subiaco, Perth, W.A.&68, King St.,Melbourne
FURNITURE, CARPETS, BEDSTEADS
AND BEDDING.
A- Hall & Co.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, covered in Rioh
and Silk PluSh Borders-Coueh,
2 Armchairs, and 4 Small Carved Chair ,
4 Guineas. „ „
A. Hall & Co.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Color—Wardrobe,
dress compartment, enclosed by bevel plate-
glass door; Duchesse Dressing AfchJ®.
correspond, Marble-top Washstand, 2 Chairs,
and Towel Rail. £5 15s.
A. Hall & Co.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, Very Strong—
-6 Padded-baok Chairs, Pair Easy Chairs, and
Couch, all Spring-seated. £5 15s.
A. Hall & Co.
FULL-SIZED HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Extended Footrail and Brass-mounted ; Best
Kapok Mattress, Bolster, and 2 Pillows,
Triple Wire Mattress.
£4 15s. complete.
A. HALL & COMPANY,
561, 563, 565 & 567 George-street, Sydney.
Hall’s New Catalogue, 72 Pages, 500 Illustrations, Posted Free.
Country Orders Packed Free.
Open all day Saturday until 9 p.m. Close 1 p.m. Wednesday.-
Leave Tram at Liverpool-street for Hall’s.
This is the Latest Type !
GRAMOPHONE
or
ZONOPHONE!
Price, £7.
mn
TALKS! SIN GS!
PLAYS ALL
Instrumental Music!
In fact, it is a CONCERT in your own Home.
Nothing to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action
Records, 2s 6d; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List —FREE.
Also on Sale—Phonographs and Graphophones;
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £50 —a fortune for a smart
man ; 2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each —Bargain.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters irt Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe Street (120 Pitt-street), Sydney (Only),
nearly opposite G.P.O.
[Carriage Paid.] W. J. N. Oldershaw, Manager.
iJJh
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES rh ‘ Bed “ s onlv OJ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE
Foil is’ Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-0"U“l'"S an< * * n 1,0 other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL!
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer.
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. ‘Price— 35., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND'S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. 6d. Postage,
9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul <fc Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAED, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK ought to contain A BOTTLE of
END’S ‘ FRUIT SALT ’
A Simple Remedy for Preventing* & Curing* by Natural Means
9
%
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Affections, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL-POX, SCARLET FEYER, PYA2MIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost every mentionable Disease. “ I have been a nurse
for ten. years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles,
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use of Eno’s ‘ Eruit
Salt,' which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
over estimated.” —A Professional Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’ OK A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, AND FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. IT IS, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, AND AN UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT ISALT.’ Without it y.ou have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C.ENO, Ltd., at the' FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.


THELEADINC HOUSE.
m
■HE 5! X ?REM I E R £ STA&LI SHN'E NTS
LONDON SYDNEY MELBOURNE
C v -
~h'-: p »
PERTH mMM** D WELLINGTON
NO MIDDLEMEN
WE SAVE YOU 25 TO 50 PERCENT
No. 201 a— Set Links, 9-carat
Gold, £1 Is; 15-carat Gold, £2;
Silver, 6s 6d.
Lady’s Gold Tie-Cup, se fc w i th
Pearls and Turquoise, lSg 6d.
No. 116 a 9-carat Gold and Fine Amethyst
Brooch, 18s 6d. Superior Design and Finish.
No. 193—Set Links, 9-
carat, 15s 6d ; 15-carat,
£llos ; Silver, 4s 6d.
No. E747B—S-carat Gold Chain, Bell and Leaf
Brooch, 11a 6cL
No. 021—15-carat Gold and
Fine Opal Links, £4.
No. E7347.—501id Silver Shaving Mug,
£4 10s, either Plain or Chafed ; Best Silver-
plated, 18s 6d and £1 6s.
ws
W
SSffi
'JSC
Cut-Glass Toilet Box, Solid Silver Top. Small, 15s 6d •
Medium, 21s ; Large, 25s. ’
m
m
, a
RflW»
Very Massive Solid Silver Cake Basket, £l3 iOs.
No. 284. — 0ut-Glass Puff Box, with
Solid Silver Top, 3in. hig-h, £1 Is.
Others, 9s 6d and 13s 6d.
No. 558.—yery Massive 15e. Gold Brooch, 9 Fine
White Diamonds, £8 10s. Special Value.
No. 150.—15c. Gold Bracelet, 1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £4 7s 6d
No. 017. —9c. Gold and Fine Opal Brooch, £i sa.
No. 139.—9 c. Gold Bracelet, Ruby Centre, £1 2s 6(1.
No. P3739—Best Silver-plated and
Satin-lined Collar Stud Box
7s 6d. ’
Solid Silver Shaving Brushes, 11s 6d, 13s 6d, £1 is, £i i2 s 6d.
No. 383 A.—Beautifully Chased Cake Basket, Finest Silver-
plate, on Nickel Silver, £2 10s. Others, £1 Is and £llos.
No. 371—Silver-plated Salts
Stand and Spoon, with Fancy
Glass, 3in. high, 5s 6d.
eu
2S T o. 373—Beautiful Silver-plated Toast
Back, 6 divisions, 7in. long, 12s 6d
No 177.
Gold Keeper, 18c.,
£1 Is.
No. 208.—15 c. Gold
Heart, 10s 6d ;
9c. ditto, 6s 6cL
No. 178. Wedding’
Ring, 18c. Gold,
£1 Is.
Heavy, £llss.
No. 193 A.—Set Links.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d ; 15c. Gold,
£1 ss. Silver, 3s 6d.
2 Diamonds, 3
Rubies, 18c. Gold,
£2 12s 6d.
No. 194 A. —Set Links.
C. Gold, £1 5s ; 15c. £2 10s
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 163.
5 Fine White Dia
monds, £5 5s ;
2 Diamonds, 3 Sap
phires,* £3 10s.
No. 215 —Pearland
Ruby Heart, 9c.
Gold, 16s 6d.
No. 167.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18c. Gold, £2 ss.
Silver-plated Egg Frame 2-Cup,
£1 5s ; 4-Cup, £2; 6-Cup, £3 3s.
No. E6Bsl—New Clasp, antique design, very
handsome, heavy make, Solid Silver, £l. (En-
graving drawn half size.) Others, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
13s 6d. Silver-platsd, 4s (id and ss.
No. EotiOl Beautiful Silver-plated Bis-
cuit Box, £llss.
No. E 7849 A Charming and
Novel Wedding Present. Silver-
plated Egg-Boiler for the Break-
fast-table, £1 ss.
No. 416—Handsome Clock, 7in. high,
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops,
and two Gilt and Leather Traces,
£1 7s 6d.
Ml
No. 103.—9e. Gold Bar Brooch,
10s 6d.
No. 130. 15c. Gold. Opal and Diamond Bracelet.
JNew and Handsome Design, £l2 10s.
No. 015.—15 c. Gold and Finest Opal Heart
Brooch, £3.
No. 137. —9c. Gold Bracelet, set Sapphires and Pearls £3
Others at £2, £2 ss, £2 10s, £2 15s. ’ '
No.
->*i;ver Button-Hooks and Shoe-Lift’
lUs Cd ; smaller size, 11s 6d.
N °' £ 9 L~ Sl ] X er ;P late(l Serviette Kings, 2in Case.
So Od , 4 in Case, 16s 6d ; 6 in Case, £1 ss.
tf°:. , EO4G ~ Morocco Case, containing
oolid Silver Shell-Pattern Butter-Dish
and Knife, £1 5s
No. 268a—Set of Solid Silver Manicure Instruments— Nail File
Scissois and Cuticle Knife, in Case, 17s fid ’
Others, 14s 6d to £6 10a.
Any ol the Articles Illustrated above will be sent
■^ ree an< * Safe by Post on receipt of Remittance.
VTA'.e for our Illustrated Catalogue. Sent Post Free.
412 6?org? St. # Straijd, SYDNEY.


California Sprup of figs,
AGREEABLE, MILD, AND SURE,
is a positive, reliable, and at the same time the most agreeable, family reunedy
for Constipation, Sluggish Liver, Biliousness, Indigestion, Depression,
Feverishness, Loss of Appetite, Headache, and all kindred complaints,
speedily restoring health, appetite, energy, and good spirits.
California Sprup of Figs,
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A luxury as much as a medicine, and an unfailing remedy. It acts as Nature •
does. It does not gripe, nauseate, or weaken. It gives relief pleasantly,
leaving the liver, kidneys, and bowels permanently benefited, so that its use
may be discontinued as soon as the system is relieved and cleansed.
California Sprup of figs,
ACTS GENTLY, BUT PROMPTLY,
is strengthening, invigorating, and energising, not weakening and lowering, as
most ordinary pills and purgatives are. There is no discomfort or inconveni-
ence. It simply aids and seconds Nature, and its results are healthful
regularity, and free-lorn from dangerous impurities in the system.
California Sprup of figs,
CLEANSES THE SYSTEM EFFECTUALLY,
is not an old-time medicine —it is compounded with a knowledge of exactly
what is required of an end-of-the-century remedy. If you always have it
handy, taking a dose now and then, it will put your vital organs in healthy
condition and keep them so. You do not require to lay up to get well.
Nature’s Pleasant Laxative keeps you well while you live as usual.
California Sprup of figs,
AN IDEAL MEDICINE FOR CHILDREN.
It is perfectly suited to their strength, never tiring or weakening the
stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels, which it cleanses, completely dissipating
at will all troubles of these organs, and then it materially strengthens them.
In action it is as bland and gentle as rain-water, and there is no risk attend
ing its use.
California Sprup of figs,
THE GOOD IT DOES IS PERMANENT,
—unlike other articles offered to effect the same result does not require to
be taken in doses of constantly increased strength. The ordinary dose is
always effective, because while relieving the weakened organs of their trouble
it strengthens them against recurrence of the disturbance. Pills and
purgatives merely relieve, and always by over-violent means. Because of
these merits physicia.ns everywhere recommend it.
California Sprup of figs,
THE TRUE AND ORIGINAL REMEDY,
Do not overlook the fact that in order to get the beneficial result you are
seeking you must obtain the GENUINE Syrup of Figs, for the imitations of
it miss its most important quality—the curative. It is manufactured by
scientific processes known to the California Fig Syrup Co. only, and therefore
we wish to impress on all the importance of purchasing the true and original
remedy. Remember the full title—California Syrup of Figs. Every package
of the genuine bears the name and trade mark of the-
California fig Sprup Co.
Of all Chemists and Stores, is. i£d. and is. gd.
DEPOT;— 33 SNOW HILL,' LONDON, ENG.
Australian Colonies—Of all leading Wholesale Houses.
Tailoring__^
Tailoring.
POOR OLD HATTE
He toils not,
Neither does he spin,
T>UT he turns out a REAL GOOD
- 0 SUIT, with Extra Pair of Trou-
sers, for £2 25. ; and a clinker for
505. ; and 3 Guineas Hand-
made.
A DRESS SUIT, Silk-faced,
' from 635.
A CHESTERFIELD OVERCOAT
for 555. upwards.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS and SELF-
MEASUREMENTS
C. G. HATTE
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
"LINCOLN. STUART& GO.
* PROPBIETiBT LIMITED,
252 & 251 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
I
Our Suit to order at 425,
is marvellous value, made
from all-wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Serges,fastcolors
is perfect fitting and beau-
tifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order
from any class of material.
£3 3s. To measure, capital
Trousers, very good pat-
terns, 12s. Gd.
Dress Suits, to measure,
£5, Clerical Suits, to mea-
sure, £5.
Hiding Breeches, 255.
Biding Habits, &c.
We supply ready-made
Men’s Capital Tweed Suita
215., 255.
Famous Ballarat Serge
(Suits, Indigo dye, 255.
Long Chesterfield Coats
all colors. 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss. lid.
All-wool Blue and Black
Vicuna Coats and Vests,
19s. 6d,
Tweed Overcoats- 21s.
Waterproof Coats, full
capes, 15s. 9d. Undressed
White Shirts, linen fronts
and cuffs, 2s. Gd., 3s. (id.
4s. Gd.. s*. 6d.
Heavy Warm Travelling
Bugs, 10s. Gd., 13s. 9d.
All-wool Crimean Shirts,
ss. Gd.,7s. Gd. Travelling
Trunks, Bags in great
variety. Soft Alpine Hats,
is. Gd., all colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. 6d,
Caps, Is.
Merino Undershirts or
rants. Is. 9d.
Necktie., all shapes and colors, U. WhWeSh.rts to mewuro.
Gents’ Splendid Balmoral Boots, 6s. an., as. pa.
We like to write letters, so don’t be afraid to ask for any
• mir book “ The Philosophy of Dress, and
patterns of 'all kinds and’ self-measurement forms posted freo
v Write for them.
A Woman in Earnest!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the true history of the killing of Arthur
Franklin; founddead, one morning in the seventies,
upon a bush-track in Gippsland. The skull was
fractured over the right ear ; the belongings were
untouched ; the ground was marked with horse’s
tracks—traceable into the Jerap-Jerap swamp, but
not out thereof. Which things-with a ‘ ‘ person-or-
persons-unknown ” verdict—have made, till now,
the whole of the story.
• * * *
"I sometimes think,” the woman said, “that
you are not: —quite right in your head !
The husband—a large, light man, with super-
proximate eyes beneath a narrow tower of fore-
head-looked hard at her for half-a-minute before
out of his carefully-tended russet beard came the
sneering cackle that had rasped upon her soul for
six sordid years of disillusion.
“ Think much about Arty Franklin, now ?” he
said, and the woman —she was brown, and dark,
and’suavely pretty—put a hand suddenly to her
throat before she flashed upon him a glance of
which he fully felt the edge.
“ You needn’t trouble to lie about it 1 ” he said,
as his cheek whitened with an added malevolence.
“Iteowyoudo!”
“Why should I lie about it?” Mrs. Staffock
answered, in the small, cold voice of concentrated
antipathy. “And why should I not think of
Arthur Franklin ?—he is dead ! ”
“As you’d like me to be, in his place, no
doubt ?”
“ As I should like you to be, in his place—yes!
she answered, with a cool accord of eye and voice
that thrust his rancor, for the moment, behind his
blank astonishment. But then, with a beast-like
twitching of the nose, he stood suddenly over her.
“ By God !” he began, and then her face stopped
him—the eye that feared him not, and the mouth
that despised him utterly. His own face took on
the hideous grin of fury forcing itself to a smile.
He went back to his chair, pocketed his hands,
stretched out his breeched and booted legs.
“ Candour,” he said, slowly, “calls for candour
in return. You never knew why Franklin threw
you over ! Shall I tell you? ”
“You ! ”
“Yes, I. I ought to know; for it was my
doing. Ah ! you condescend to be interested
now, do you ? ”
She was strangely white about the nostrils, but
her needle never altered its pace. “Go on,” she
said, in the hushed voice of one about to look upon
a corpse. “ I always suspected ”
“ That I had a finger in that pie ? Quite so ”
putting on by this time a fair show of cynical cool-
n ?ss. “ Rather a good joke, it is—though I’ll
0 :cuse you if you’re not quite able to see it. You
ware good enough, just now, to credit me with
be'ng a bit cranky ! Well, I didn’t exactly tell
Franklin that you were personally off-your-head,
but I told him that the family was queer. Your
late lamented father, I took the small liberty of
saying, had ended his days in straw ! ”
“In straw?” the astonished woman repeated,
mechanically.
“Yes. The worst kind of lunatics, you know,
are bedded in straw, because ”
“What hellish invention is this? Say it is a
lie, Stephen ! I have come to know, too well,
what you are capable of—but, surely, even
you ”
She had risen, and stood, hand-clasped, beside
him —more beautiful, in her agony of questioning,
than he had ever before seen her.
“Lie? It’s true enough! And, by Heaven!
if you always looked as you do now, I’d still say
you were worth the little swindle ! ”
He stretched out, with half-hesitating air of
proprietorship, a hand from which she shrank as
from a hot iron. And then, out of a horror-
quickened comprehension—even in the moment of
stepping back to her seat —there flashed up clear
before her the method of a revenge that called
upon her, straightway, for an acted part.
“Good God!” she moaned, drooping, with
hand-hidden face, from her chair. “How —how
did you come to know ? ”
Staffock jerked in his legs and sat suddenly up-
right, with a dawn of terror in his shifty eyes.
“ Know what ? ” he asked sharply, after a pause.
“That there is— is—mental infirmity in my
family ! That ” here, with fine histrionic
instinct, she dropped her hands and forced her-
self, as it seemed, to look him piteously in the
face —“ my poor father died —as you say—raving
mad ! ”
Into the florid insolence of the man’s cheek
there came suddenly a sickly mottling. He
gasped like a dying fish, and a fierce joy filled the
woman.
“What!” she cried, and smote her hands to-
gether with deftly simulated dismay. “You
didn’t know it? You hit upon the truth by
chance ? And I —unfortunate that lam ! —I have
let out the dreadful secret myself ! ”
The man—when she had fled the room —sat
long with limp arms hanging, and his head
sunken under the weight of the horror that had
come home to perch upon it.
» * • *
“Well, doctor?”
Dr. Krayke—a small, interjectory man with a
stoop and a ferocious protrusion of green-grey
whisker —pulled out a huge red handkerchief and
blew the blast of brief perpension before he an-
swered.
“ I have—ha !—bad news for you, madam ! ”
“ I can bear it! Death? ”
“ Oh, no ! Not—hum !—death, by any means !
But some people would—ho !—say it was worse !”
Mrs. Staffock sat down and fixed him with
black eyes that spoke of no emotion.
“Worse than death ?—kindly explain!” she
said in such a weather-criticising tone that little
Krayke was moved unto dramatic effect.
“Your husband, madam,” he said, “has been
deliberately poisoning himself ! ”
Indifferently she nodded. “ I knew ! Brandy!
He’s been at it for nearly a month, now ! But
he’s pretty tough, isn’t he ? ”
“ Tough ! Oh, yes ; tough enough —physically !
But Krayke rubbed his nose, reflectively, for a
moment with his whip-handle—“have you—
hum ! —any knowledge of your husband’s family
history ? ”
She shook her head. “He has always been
very reticent about himself and his belongings.
He is an Englishman and that’s about all I
know ! ”
“An Englishman—yes ! And from —ha !—my
own county. Consequently, I know more about
him than you do —more, possibly, than he knows
himself; for he has been kept ignorant, I fancy,
of certain facts which have —ho ! —an important
bearing upon his present condition. His grand-
father —to cut the matter short —died, a violent
lunatic, in Hanwell, and two of his uncles were
confined, when I left England, in private asylums.
Pardon me, my dear madam ! ” as Mrs. Staffock
rose suddenly from her chair, “I have —ha!
been injudicious ! This information ”
“ Has not affected me, as you suppose, doctor.
Go on, pray ! The brandy-drinking, you think,
has developed—or is developing ”
“ Mental alienation in your husband! You
hum ! —apprehend me perfectly, madam ! I shall
bring Gunn, of Hutchinson’s Creek, with me to-
morrow ; but I fear there’s not much doubt that
he will —ha !—confirm my opinion.”
“ That my husband is a lunatic ? ”
“Plainly, then, madam —since you—ho ! —don’t
mince matters yourself—yes ! There are already
well-marked delusions. He is strongly possessed,
for instance, with the notion that you —hum !
you will pardon me ! —are—ha ! —not quite right
in your mind !
Her pitying smile was excellently done, and
Krayke, with an answering smirk of deprecation,
went on to say that, though the delusion was quite
a typical one, there was a detail about which he
wished to inquire.
“ You will—hum ! —pardon me again, madam—
but you did not, I suppose, at any time tell your
husband that there had been—ha ! —insanity in
your own family ? ”
With high-raised eyebrows, she looked him
calmly in the face. “Even if I had,” she said,
“ it would not have been true ! ”
“ No, no !—of course not! ” Krayke said—
accepting the implied denial. “ Expect me, then,
with Dr. Gunn, to-morrow; and, in the mean-
time, if you will kindly see that Mr. Staffock has
nothing to—ho !—excite him, the medicine I will
send over as soon as I get home will keep him
fairly well composed.”
Mrs. Staffock, shaking with internal laughter,
watched the little doctor climb upon his long-
legged chestnut; then, with the face of Atropos,
she went straight to her husband’s room.
He was in bed—starting at every sound —thril-
ling with “fantastic terrors never felt before”;
but, as the woman knew, no more mad—yet !
than she was. Quietly she sat down and spoke
without preamble.
“ About five weeks ago I told you a lie. I said
my father had died insane. I need not ask you ”
—with a hard little laugh—“ if you remember.”
With her steady, penetrating gaze she caught
his furtive, wandering eyes, held them, and went
on with slow incisiveness.
“It was, I say, a lie —born of that other mon-
strous lie you told to Arthur Franklin.”
The man, with a twitching hand, covered his
voiceless mouth, but his eyes asked, wildly—
“ Why ? ”
“To make you suffer as you have suffered. To
lay the dread upon you that has destroyed you.
You have not had —I thank God for it ! —an easy
moment since.”
He looked away from her with a shudder—
looked back and said in a husky whimper : “And
now you say it was all a lie. How am Ito know
what to believe ? ”
“It doesn’t matter whether you believe or not.
There is more ! Were you fool enough to think I
would undeceive you without having worse be-
hind ? You have often said you couldn’t make me
out. Do you begin a little to ‘ make me out ’
now ? ”
Her placid, passionless ferocity—more terrible
than any vehemence—held him motionless, with
sinking jaw and horribly questioning eyes.
“ Dr. Krayke says you are a lunatic ! ”
The straight, swift statement—making potent
combination with his own nameless apprehensions
—shook Staffock to the soul. Like a scared child,
he covered his clammy face with the bed-clothes.
“Dr Krayke,” went on the steady, remorseless
voice, “ says your grandfather was mad ! —that
two of your uncles were mad !—that you, yourself,
only needed such a drinking-bout as this to send
you stark, staring mad, also ! ”
“It is false ! ” With a despairing effort to re-
assure himself, he thrust out again his ghastly
countenance —green with terror and streaming
with sweat. “I am not mad ! ”
“No!” the woman said, tranquilly as ever.
“ Not quite ! But you have evidently not far to
travel in that direction ; and ” —lowering her voice
still more, and dropping the syllables with merci-
less deliberation into his shuddering consciousness
—“I intend —that you shall go— the whole of the
way / ”
“Devil!” he screeched, and sprang up with
clutching hands; but the woman’s eye never
wavered. “Just so!” she said. “A violent
lunatic! ”
His tottering sanity warned him against' such a
fatal blunder. Trembling, he stood and looked at
her for a few moments —his mouth working
hideously within his foam-streaked beard. Then
—as his eye fell upon his clothes, and travelled
thence to the window —she divined his unspoken
thought, and knew that her work was done.


/
1 1
64
That’s
The Spot.
Know the spot ?
Right in the “ sirtall ” of the back,
Just above the hips.
Bad place for pain,
But it always comes there
When the kidneys are sick.
Comes in many forms,
Sharp, quick twinges,
Slow, exhaustive aches,
Always starts in the one spot
But it don’t stop there—
The ache goes on,
Goes on up the back —
Follows the nerve centres.
You call it all backache ;
Ought to call it kidney ache,
Because it comes from the kidneys.
There’s a lurking danger in it all.
Never neglect backache.
Never neglect the kidneys’ cry for help.
Serious trouble is sure to follow,
Urinary difficulties set in.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are for
kidneys only.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cure
backache ;
Cure excessive urinary discharges,
Cure retention of the urine,
Cure every kidney ill.
DODO’S 11CKDCHE KIDOEI PICES
Endorsed by Sydney People.
A Sydney Woman. A Sydney Man.
Mrs. Spear, 32 G-oodsell-street, St. Peters,
this city, says : “ For a good while I was in
a pretty bad state with my back. This was
a dull, constant ache about the kidneys.
Sometimes it was much worse than others,
when I moved the pains becoming very bad
indeed, more particularly when I stooped.
It was a most distressing complaint, and I
did not like the thought occurring to me that
this sort of thing often lasts a lifetime, yet
such is the case. Almost a year ago I heard
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and re-
solved to try them for my ailment, so pro-
cured some at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-
street. lam very pleased indeed to inform
you that they cured me. I’ve never had the
pains return since I used them. I gave some
of these pills to a relation who has derived
as much benefit through taking them as I
have. _ I am very glad to be able to state
these simple facts since it may lead to others
getting benefit from Doan’s'Backache Kid-
ney Pills.”
Mr. William Carroll, an ex-railway guard,
of 749 Harris-street, Ultimo, this city’
writes: “I strained myself in pushing some
heavy trucks, and soon noticed the effect in
the small of my back. For three solid
months I was unable to do any work. I
wa,s laid up. I had a very lame back, and a
dull pain though the loins and kidneys, and
the secretions became unnatural and irregu-
lar. My physician advised Turkish baths.
I took them and received some small benefit,
but not sufficient to enable me to work
properly. I procured some of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills and used them ; I found
wonderful relief, so much so that I am now
able to do heavy work as of old in a thorough
manner. I might mention that it is a year
ago since I took these pills and I have not
been troubled with my back or kidneys since
which firmly convinces me that Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills are a true kidney remedy,
and I never fail to recommend them amoim
my friends.”
But be sure you get DOAN’S-the kind your neighbours endorse
Don’t accept a substitute. All Chemists and Storekeepers sell
them at 2s. 9d. per Box—Six Boxes, 15s. 3d. If you cannot
obtain them locally, they will be posted on receipt of price by
the proprietors, Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Fitt-st., Sydney.
Don’t Neglect.
A COMMON CASE OF PILES.
IT MAY LEAD TO SERIOUS RESULTS.
When people generally understand that all such
fatal diseases, as fistula, ulcer of the rectum, fissure,
&c., almost invariably begin in a simple case of
piles, they will learn the wisdom of taking prompt
treatment for the first appearance of trouble in
this quarter. Doan’s Ointment will certainly cure
every form of piles—itching, bleeding, protruding,
and blind piles—and hundreds of lives have been
saved by using this cheap and effective remedy
right at the start, because at such times a single
pot will effect a cure, while the old, deep-seated,
chronio cases, several pots are sometimes necessary
before a cure is effected. Here is a case in point:—
Mr. William Gulliver, of the well-known firm of
GuHiver and Curtis, Railway and General Con-
tractors, and whose private address is “ Avoca,”
Bankstown, has written the following unsolicited
letter, which we herewith publish in full:—
Messrs. Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney,
. Feb. 14th, 1899.
Dear Sirs, —In justice to you and suffering
humanity, I write to say that I suffered from itch-
ing piles for 22 years. I tried many doctors, and
pretty well all kinds of patent medicines, but got
relief for a short time only. Seeing your Ointment
advertised, I bought a pot—and did not use more
than one-half of it, now six months ago—and lam
perfectly cured. You may use this as you wish
Yours gratefully, WILLIAM GULLIVER
It cannot be repeated too often that Doan’s
Ointment will cure itching piles. It will Cure
them absolutely. But do not take the manufac-
turer’s word for this ; ask or write Mr. Gulliver
He knows, for it cured him, and he lives at Banks-
town, a suburb 12 miles.from Sydney. Is not that
tlie best possible kind of proof? Could there be
better ?
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, by sending us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles
or Eczema for one moment. Doan’s Ointment
will cure them absolutely, but do not take our
word for it; send a penny stamp for a sample box.
The large size box is sold at 2s. 9d. per fox fsix
boxes 15s. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally
from your chemist or storekeeper, same will be
K®^3 ri i r ®9 eipt _ ( of Price by the proprietors,
"McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BuLLETiN Vntlllg f ° r sample please mention'The
“ I’ll have the Gambler run-in and saddled,”
she said to herself, as she left the room. “ He'll
be wanted before long, I fancy 1 ”
*.* • •
Arthur Furnival Franklin, sworn, said:—“l
am an artist, making a sketching-tour on foot.
The remains are those of Mr. Stephen Staffock,
of Yamarroo. I knew him very well before his
marriage, five or six years ago, but I had not seen
him since, until last Wednesday.” To the Coro-
ner : “ Very well; I will describe what happened
as consecutively as I can. On that day I was on the
tramp from Gladstone to Karkarumbah, and
about midway it came on to rain so hard that I
took shelter in an old bark hut beside the track.
In half-an-hour or so it cleared up, and, just as I
was lighting my pipe for a start, I heard the
tread of a horse. I went outside, and saw a man
coming along on a big grey horse. The horse
was tired-looking and soaked with sweat, and the
man had a strange appearance, for he had no hat,
and his feet were out of the stirrups. He was
swinging his arms about, too, and talking to him-
self, and, as he got nearer, I recognised him for
Staffock. A good deal altered, but no mistake
about him ; so I stepped out to speak to him, but,
the moment he saw me, he pulled up short and
glared at me as if his eyes would come out of his
head. No ; I hadn’t time to speak to him before he
screamed out, ‘My God ! —a dead man ! I must
be mad, then ! That devil has had her wish ! ’
Then he wheeled round and galloped away to the
right as fast as the horse could lay legs to the
ground. I ran after him, for I thought he must
soon come to grief at that pace, amongst the
timber, but, all of a sudden, I lost sight of horse
and man over the edge of the gully where they
were found. I climbed down a bit, myself, but I
iibuld see nothing of them, so I went on as fast as
r could to Karkarumbah, and informed the police.
That’s all I know.” To the Coroner : “ Oh, there
was a false rumor among my Melbourne acquaint-
ances, about a year back, that I had been drowned
in Queensland; perhaps that accounts for his
reference to a dead man. No; I have not the
remotest idea what he meant about some devil
having her wish. He didn’t appear to know, him-
self, what he was saying.”
» » • #
“ Arthur! ”
A horse was reined suddenly up beside Frank-
lin, stolidly pursuing his interrupted journey.
He looked up without surprise, and also—as the
woman noted with a freezing of the heart—with-
out interest.
How d’ye do, Mrs. Staffock ? I saw you at
the inquest!”
“Saw me ! —and took no notice ! ”
“No. You see—you have gone out of mv
life ! ”
“I ? It was you who went out of mine—because
of a paltry lie ! ”
His sleepy grey eye lighted up a little. “That
was a lie, then, that Staffock told me about your
family ? I have sometimes thought so since; else
why should he have married you himself ? But,
how did you come to know of it? Staffock
wouldn’t be. likely to let it out, at all events ! ”
Let it out ? He boasted of it! —gloried in it!
But ’’—she leant down from her saddle till the
man almost shrank from the close luridity of her
eyes—“ he has paid for that with his life ! ” .
Franklin stopped and held her rein. “Non-
sense !” he said. “ You didn’t take his life ! ”
“Bah !” She flushed with a fiery impatience
of his literalness. “I took his reason! I drove
him to the madness that drove him to his death !
Now do you understand ? ”
He understood, yes !—that he had, after all,
been lucky in that long-ago lie that had come
between him and this overwhelming woman.
This, then, was the devil Staffock had cried out
about! He shivered a little as he recalled the
ghastly, despairing face, and it was even with a
shade of pity for the dead man that he let go her
rein and formally lifted his hat. “ Let me wish
you good-bye !” he said, stiffly. “ I have a good
many miles to do yet before dark.”
She shrank in her saddle as from a blow—then
wheeled the horse suddenly in front of him and
laughed an evil little laugh. “What, Arthur?—
now that I am free—and ” —with a half-con-
temptuous afterthought—“ rich ! ” *
Her eye frightened him. Really most uncom-
fortable persons to deal with—these women who
were so absurdly in earnest!
“I positively must be pushing-on!” he said,
half-peevishly. “ And, as to what you do me the
honor of suggesting, you will doubtless admit the
superior claims of ’’—with a feeble snigger—“ the
present Mrs. Franklin ! ”
There wasn’t any Mrs. Franklin, but the inven-
tion of one, he told himself, was a fortunate con-
ceit; for, on the instant, without another word or
look, Mrs. Staffock pulled her horse round and
rode slowly away.
For a couple of minutes Franklin walked
straight ahead; then, at a slight turn in the track,
he stopped and looked back. She, too, had halted,
and sat with her back to him, erect and rigid as an
effigy—for him, had he but known it, the Statue
of Fate ! He shrugged his shoulders and went
on. “A miserably foolish thing,” he was repeat-
ing to himself, to be too much in earnest! ”
when, with a sudden rhythmic pounding of the
earth, the horse was back upon him at a speed as
furious as the swing with which the rider’s loaded
whip-handle took him just above the ear.
Forty yards beyond, the “earnest woman”
pulled round, and, riding back through the dust
her horse had raised, looked calmly down at It.
“I had gone out of your life, had I?” she mut-
tered. “ Well, at all events, you’ve gone out of
hers 1 ”
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.
The Rhodes organ, London Express, in a
leading article :
We want Mr. Kruger removed from all further oppor-
tunities of stirring up his countrymen. A commodious
villa in St. Helena, with a large stoep and plenty of coffee
and tobacco, seems to be the legitimate range of his
future ambition.
Mars.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am the G-od of War, in banishment I grope,
A mythical monstrosity of Greece,
An ancient red-eyed tramp upon Oblivion’s slope,
A quarry for the Nazarene’s police.
Or graciously they give me understrapping jobs
Among their hybrid dynasties of hell ;
Yet in their tamest blood my passion madly throbs,
Incarnate in their holiest forms I dwell.
Their choicest acolytes, from psalm and pallid lusts,
From knees and weak repentance, I’ve enticed
To make swashbuckler feasts with sacramental
crusts,
A Sunday circus trick-dog of their Christ.
When to my lurid call battalioned Hate arrays
And in the orgy Pity’s senses swim,
My most degrading whims unquestioned each
obeys,
When both sides make a fetish Joss of Him.
And how the inextinguishable laughter still
Through all the halls of old Olympus peals,
When victor Christian Cains retreating Abels kill,
The Lamb of God a-baaing at their heels.
Te Deums to the God of Battles shout the priests !
The maids to soldier-brutes their girdles toss !
All’s well, my dainty Venus, lead me to your
feasts,
The pale God’s dead, the charm has left His Cross !
Melb.
LUCIAN.
Tempora Mutantur!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Click, clack ! Click, click, click, click, ting '
Scr .
“ Excuse me a moment.”
The clicking sound suddenly ceased, and the
brown-haired girl turned from her type-writer to
the doorway whence the voice proceeded.
“Could you run off a few letters for me?”
glancing carelessly at the girl’s pale face; “I’m
m an awful hurry to catch the Brisbane mail.”
"Certainly,” she replied, sighing wearily.
Just take a chair,” indicating one beside her
desk. He watched her with interest as she re-
moved the sheet from the machine to insert a
fresh one.
“ How many copies ? ”
“ Two, please. Do you like typewriting ? ”
Oh, yes.” She put in the paper and wrote
the date. “Whom to, please?”
“Brown and Jones, Brisbane.”
Click, click, click.
“Dear Sir. Oh, have you got ‘ dear sir ’ ? Well
—er—Yours of the 6th—no, the 7th—received.
Make that 6 7th instant. ’ You’ve got 4 received 5 ?
Oh, well, never mind. And contents noted—
carefully noted ’ would be better. Thank you.
Have you been typewriting long ? ”
“ Three years. ‘ Carefully noted ’ .”
“ Oh, yes ! Er—l have—just begin a new para-
graph—l have called on the principal business-
houses in this city—er. Have you got that ? And
shown the samples of your goods, but, so far, have
received . How many words a minute can
you write ? ”
“I don’t know. ‘Have received ’ .”
“Have received very few orders. Doesn’t
writing so fast tire your fingers ? ”
For half an hour or so, the girl tapped the keys
rapidly to the man’s dictation. Once he bent un-
necessarily near her in order to read what he had
said, and, when she gave him the last sheets, he
pressed her hand, though she instantly withdrew
it.
Having gathered up his letters and paid for
them, he bowed himself out, muttering “sonicely
written”; “be in again soon,” &c., and stumbled
over the door-mat into the street.
“Another idiot!” murmured the girl, returning
to her machine with a sigh ; and, replacing the
withdrawn sheet, she went clicking on with her
original work.
• » * *
Mrs. Septon was industriously sewing; her
husband was deep in the evening paper.
“John, dear?”
“ John, dear ” merely grunted. They had been
married two years.
“John, do you remember the first time I saw
you ? You came into the office one day to get
some letters typed, you know. You said— ”
“ Why the devil does a woman always want to
chatter when a man is reading the paper I
wonder! ’ broke out hubby, throwing down the
paper, and kicking the cat off the hearth-rug.
Mrs. S. stitched on in silence.
“MARORL."
The humors of the Boer war pass un-
noticed since the Chow trouble began, but many
funny things have been happening in the O. R.
Colony all the same. General Colville’s downfall
was infinitely droll to anyone who understands
the difference between Tommy Atkins plain and
Thomas Atkins colored. Colville went out in
chief command of the Guards, the fine “soft”
men of the British army who illustrate the pomp
and circumstance of war on parade (in London as
a rule) and are generally regarded by nursemaids
as a terror to Hmgland’s enemies. The Queen
hkewise Albert Edward, Prince of Walel the
Princess of Wales, and all the other members of
the Royal Family who get prayed for in the
Church of England Litany, make a point of
pinning their faith to the Guards on the rare
occasions when they are ordered abroad. News-
paper reporters always speak of the Guards with
awe. It is generally understood that the duty of
the well-grown men m the extra-impressive finery
is to wait on the outskirts of a battle until the
General cries Up Guards and at ’em ! ” where-
upon they rush forward and win the day. Well
the value of the boasted Guards in South Africa
can be judged from the fact that Lord Roberts
made an example of their high-toned General by
packing him off to London the other day The
i he is°n°i n^ ny ® fan ?°us Review has been duly
labelled a Fraud, and the prestige of the padded
ornaments of Hyde Park is now at a heavy dis-
count. Another distressing “ take-down ” was
the capture of Colonel Spragge’s Irish Yeomanry
battalion by the nasty, vulgar veldtmen. Dublin
society, said the cable, went into mourning when
the news of that catastrophe arrived. Every
. fading family ” had a dear johnnie or two serv-
ing under Spragge. Anxiety of the most aristo-
cratic character was expressed concerning the wel-
fare of the haughty prisoners. The “best
people couldnt sleep for wondering what had
happened, and now that they know what hap
pened their anguish is worse than ever. Colonel
bpragge’s brdhant amateurs were sent back to
the lines disguised as Boers in the ragged clothes
of their disrespectful captors.


99
“I Gained Flesh Rapidly.
If You Are Run Downs .Losing Strength, Are Greatly
Debilitated, and Suffer from the Long, Hot Summer,
There is one Medicine That Will Quickly Cure You. It is
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
I
I
m
¥
Mr. A. Smith, of Chief Street, Brompton, So. Australia, very kindly sends us
the following letter with his photograph, both of which are given here.
“I have .used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for loss of appetite, indigestion, and to give
tone and vigor to my system when training for bicycle racing. I only used three
bottles ; but it was enough to improve my appetite and thoroughly restore my
Strength and health. I also gained flesh rapidly to my faormal weight.
“As a blood-purifier and general tonic for those who are affected by the
long, hot summers of Australia there is no medicine like it.”
It is becalise of such testimonials that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“The World’s Greatest Family Rfledicirae.”
We could show you hundreds of such letters as this. They all say that Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla helps every one who tries it. It always does good and sometimes
makes such wonderful cures that they seem like miracles.
If you are feeling poorly just now, get a bottle of this grand old medicine.
The very next day you will feel better.
’S Sarsaparilla
Gives Vigor to the Nerves.
AYER’S PILLS act gently ; they cure constipation.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGFS LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION^
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs,
WUEK YOU ASK FOE
BE 'SUBE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without
invaluable Remedy, which saves many li
For outward application, instead of
-poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
*
It is mueli safer, more. effective,
and less troublesome.
' ’ Prepared ~by‘
w. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. lid., 2s. 9 d., is. 6 d„ .
and life, by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Pateht Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
eortaiast.
KHAKI . .
Is Fashionable
but it does not follow that KHAKI-
COLORED EYES give you a
Military hearing. They are , how-
ever, , unmistakable evidence that
your liver and stomach are in a
sadly disordered state. The wisest
thing to do, under the circum-
stances, is to
Surrender Yourself
Unconditionally
to the kindly rule of Beecham’s
Bills, which will soon restore to
your Eyes their naturally Clear,
7fright, Healthy Appearance—Free
from Khaki.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Over 6,000,000 Boxes Sold Annually.
ix^DE»(o3E=*.Tr-A.ixr ,, r ♦
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
sole Agents
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
« . " . \:X ->- \ ■ >■ ■ •■w.v-;.:> - •’■- '■ -.V '1. 7- V. ' PL
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
OW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
* * ....
m
nm
Sen-Sen <?.
RWSMKAVSB
LONDON.
n
P £kfOM£
m
IRISH MOSS
' '-The be v sf remedy-•
INFLUENZA,
Coughs.
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
ASTHMA.
mn


A FEW QUOTATIONS
...F08...
Cycle Tyres
' £ s 'd
Pneumatic Detachable Tyres (on Dunlop
principle), including Cover and Inner
Outer Tyre, Canvas and Eubber, 15s. and 0 18 6
Outer Eubber Covers ... ... ... 08 6
Inner Tube, complete,-\yith Valve ... 0 7 0
Inner Tube, not joined, without Valve... 0 5 0
Ee-rubbering Old Canvas ... 12s 6d and 015 0
v\ earing Strips, Extra Heavy, 2in. wide 0 5 0
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy, attached. 0 7 6
Wearing Strips, Eegular, lMn, wide ... 0 3 0
Wearing Strips, Eegular, attached
Dunlop Valve
Victor Eims ... ... "" '•
Palmer Tyre, Single Tube Fabric
Eubber Solution and Patching Eubber.
0 5
0 1
0- 6
1 5
BEST QUALITY OUTEE COVEES G-UAE-
ANTEED FOE 12 MONTHS.
Lisfs Sent on Application.
We do Repairs.
PERDRIAU&CO.
268 and 270 CEORCE ST.,
Betioeen Hunter and
Bond Streets.
SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE WORTHINGTON
... IS THE ORIGINAL....
DUPLEX PUMP.
• ;
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
WORTH INGTOM.
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 (
y% [- »“.*vvrV :
;,s
TANGYES’
REPRESENTED IN AUSTRALIA BY
BENNIE, TEARE & 00., Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Ooolgardie.
PULLEY BLOCKS.
Hydraulic and Screw
Jacks
TO
too TONS.
y
60
DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- C. ■3i!TjTS'R,T3DC3-S • & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 I'Oltli. SYDMISV
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post /rum all the coloniespramptly
attended to.
mn
m
n
Board or Apartments at Option,
the most nutritious.
EPP s ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCO A
breakfast-supper.
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • ••
■v 1
wm
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the verv finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the * W 00+ L /
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only |d. per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
ttiat their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and fhe will not send your orders to US, and we willdeliver hatyour doZ
b-ood butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary
at any price. The famous “ Berry ” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company
bad butter 3
H. PATESON, Manager,
arke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
mining machinery, steam engines and boilers.
SOLE LICENSEES FOE THE MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF
mn
THE ROPP STRAIGHT LINE FURNACE]
Wethey Multiple Deck Furnace with Cooling Hearth
FOR
Roasting,
Chlorinating,
AND
Desulphurising Ores.
IN STOCK
HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL ENGINES and T5OTTTtt?q .11 • ■DAnm-i-r.-r,
VERISERS, CONCENTRATORS. HOTSTTNfi mm™™ “ IiKAKEItS > BOLLS, PUL.
VERISERS, CONCENTRATORS, HOISTING ENGINES, HORSE WHIMS PUMPSof ~ l ’ PUL
WHEELS, PULSOMETERS, BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, COMPRESSORS ROCK
SKIPS AND BUCKETS, ELECTRO-COPPER PLATES, SHAFTING AND PULLEYS BELHNg’ AND oIS
mn
=-■
'
-m
“DUPLEX”
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia ;
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN ■* SONS L imTtep
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS BAKING POWDFP
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or SqX) &
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR '
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS
HEAP OFFICE
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
m~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY"
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the oivilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised bv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their'usa
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, p ur
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, thev are
spurious. *
SECOND-HAND
AND
TO-EW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
buy from us and
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
, *1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned!
Every requisite for the Furnishing-
where 7 / j°- Per Ceilt - lesB than
where. Call and inspect.
Of the HOME of best
prices charged else-
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO
Telephone (3 d °° rS paSt Hunc #->. SYDNEY.
