

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
LAMB’S RUM.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
The Lancet.
R. Cr. WATKIIffS &£, GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney, 7
Milling ancl Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
■ ' x E PLOSIVES > BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
™i}-'
iiiiillll
* •v' K
m
Over 2700 Mydro-Rlictraotors Sold and at work
JW»v t
****&%
JjJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLK'S GEORGE HOTE L, opposite S
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s, per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
85 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
AJEUfa
SOLE AGENTS FOE
BROADBEIMT’S
-EAM DRIVI
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
b een successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods,
&ait, Uhermcals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
■testimonials and full particulars.
THORNE'S
" fll WHISKY.
SANDEMAN’S
. AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
IUMfiM.IHIf
HOBART.
adley’s Orient hotel
YOUR WATCH
WON’T GK>?__—^
Why not lay it aside and invest in a newline ? Eight
here we introduce to your notice one of our
FAMOUS SILVER KEYI£&S LEVERS,
the cases of which are solid silver. The movement is
of the best quality, and manufactured specially for
rough handling. The balance staff pivots rotate in
the best-quality jewels, and the balance itself is com-
pensated. This ensures the watch keeping
Accurate and Reliable Time.
On receipt of the sum of £2 we shall be pleased to
Forward this Watch on Approval,
and if you are dissatisfied with the value we will
return your money. Remember that this watch is
guaranteed 6 years. Thus you can have
Reliable Time for a Penny a Week.
The watch will be forwarded, securely packed and
postage free, to any part of the Australian colonies
on receipt of £2.
D. S.
Watchmaker, Jeweller & Optician
684 George Street, Sydney.
CO
Ire you Too Stout?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALINC REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
af
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTINGP
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWICfSc SON, LTD.,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES : Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
./RICE Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
I AIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES.
2nd Edition. Price 4/G.
SEND FOR A•
BOOK CATALOGUE
RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Fred from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
m
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
TEACHER’S
HIGHLAND
CREAM
mi
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THIC G-IR,:E.A.T
CASCADE ALE
'A ; T t V;.\O ' ' T-- v, :■'■'■ "TT '■ ,: r. : .; A > ■•'• :‘A;
IS HIGIRIE] TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and GO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
BY ROYAL WARRANT.
Joshua’s BOOMERANG BRANDY
-————
JOSHUA BROS, have been authorised to
SUPPLY BOOMERANG BRANDY
to the Cellars of H.M. the Queen, the Prince of Wales, and the Duke of York.
Henry Skinner,
01arendon : st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10h3. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
inner
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
1
From Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
Lino; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, 5$ 10s, 203.
— M °ney Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH, FRENCH, GERMAN
and SPANISH RARE BOOKS.
R. GENiNJERT,
89c FAUBOURC ST., MARTIN, PARIS, FRANCE.
“ 1 lie Last of Six ” .
Tales of the Austral Tropics Bv
post free l AVKNC ‘ Pa P ercovers > 141 pp.; 6d!
The Bulletin
Vol. 21. 1077. j
[Saturday, October 6, 1900.
Feiysterecl at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a, Nowsnaner.


The Bulletin publications.
The Golden Shanty:
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose
and Verse, by Bulletin Writers. Paper
covers, Is. 3d.; Cloth boards, 2s. 4d. post
free.
Tales of the Convict System:
By “Price Warung.” Paper covers, 193
pp. : (id., post free.
The Last of Six :
Tales of the Austral Tropics. By Ernest
Favenc. Paper covers, 141 pp.; 6d, post
free.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Third Edition. Silk
cloth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp., 4s. 6d.,
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adaiis. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). With
about, eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Full wood x Gs. post-free. *** “ The jolliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
direct, from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amounts stated.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane.
SYDNEY COPYING AGENCY
104- Wooiioomooioo-St., Sydney.
QAREFULLY-TYPED COPIES made of rare and un-
published Books in public and private libraries.
Students’ information, literary extracts, etc., in two days.
Price according to work.
Any Book or Magazine procured at Sydney prices.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
COUGHS, COOT,,
BRONCHITIS’
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
52
3SjSf!§£S
V;--
IN TlftJ.Q
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTI ON.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Cr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
OME men are dreamers: with their oars in-
\ hoard
V-/ They choose to drift adown the tide of Time,
With flowery banks above them and the chime
Of bell-birds ever with them ; and a horde
Of wild foivl welcoming at beach and ford;
And rainbow butterflies to cross and climb
The sunbeams in their Paradise sublime.
A fighter I. Give me the clanging sword l
Let me cross blades with Fate / My short life-span
God give me power to use my cares among;
So well to strike that men may say of me .*
“ Tie faced his bitter fortune like a man,
Stood square against his horoscope and flung
A gauntlet-challenge to his Destiny /”
N.S.W.
WILL OGILVIE.
THE RED PAGE.
An Example of the Gross Waste of
Public Money in N.S. Wales.
ON Ist May, 1900, N.S.W. Dept, of Public
Instruction called upon Sydney book-
sellers to tender for supplying about £2OO
worth of books for a free library at Rook-
wood, a municipality near Sydney. Most persons
will learn with -surprise that a number of munici-
palities in the metropolitan area have been pre-
sented with books to the same value.
The principle is essentially wrong. The over-
growth of Sydney (and of other Australian capital
cities) is seriously injuring the Australian com-
munity, and seriously retarding Australian de-
velopment. Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Ade-
laide, Perth, are to a large extent parasites on our
vital industries—agriculture, mining, the breeding
of animals—the industries which produce the food
and wealth on which Australia depends for
national existence. Yet every Australian Govern-
ment squanders on the capital cities money which
should be devoted to the improvement of the
conditions of life and labour in the country. In
a hundred ways the cities are made pleasant
places to live in. In a hundred ways life in the
bush is rendered intolerable. If they strove their
best to attract population to the cities, Australian
Governments could scarcely do more than they
now do. The result is that the bush is robbed of
scores of thousands of men and women who, in
the interest of the community and their own’ in-
terest, should be pioneers of settlement, fertilising
the waste places of this country, and creating, not
merely spending or distributing, the national
wealth.
The principle of giving books to metropolitan
municipalities is wrong, secondly, because metro-
politan municipalities can very well provide free
libraries for themselves. The notion of milking
the Government cow gets far too much support;
and the doctrine of self-help far too little. If
Rookwood or Annandale ratepayers want a free
library, Rookwood or Annandale ratepayers
should themselves provide it. And when “loyal”
or “religious” persons can privately subscribe
hundreds of thousands of pounds for the extension
ot the British empire in Africa, or the extension
of the Presbyterian Church in Australia, it is
surely possible for energetic canvass to raise
privately the £2OO which N.S.W. Govt, devotes
to the encouragement of suburban libraries.
That one free public library should be liberally
supported by N.S. Wales for the sake of students,
and for the preservation of Australian literature,
is right; and the natural place of that library is in
the metropolis. That a grant should be made for
libraries in the country, where the population is
scanty and comparatively poor, is right also
Everything possible should be done, in the na-
tional interest, to attract population to the
country, and to make the monotonous lives of the
settlers more tolerable. And there the duty of
the Government at present ends.
But if these things be denied—if it be con-
tended that N.S.W. Govt, is right to make pri-
vate liberality unnecessary, to discourage munici-
pal self-help, and to present books at the general
expense to comparatively well-to-do municipali-
ties—then the least that can be done is to see that
the money voted is expended to the best advan-
tage. Or, if Govt, gives libraries, the nucleus of a
suburban library may be purchased for £5O, and
£l5O be saved for the much more necessary library
in the backblocks. Surely private and municipal
effort may be relied on for something. When the
Govt, gives all, the individual and the munici-
pality do nothing.
These reflections come from study of a list of
books presented to Rookwood municipality at the
country’s expense. There is room for some differ-
ence of opinion as to the books suitable for such a
library ; but, allowing for that difference, the
Rookwood list is by no means satisfactory, and
there is in it a singular disproportion which
gives colour to some of the allegations now being
enquired into by a N.S.W. Govt. Commission.
It is obvious that such a Govt,, grant should be
expended under well-defined conditions. The
library should be, first of all, a library for the
poor who cannot buy books, or cannot buy ex-
pensive books. It should contain (with due
regard to the limited sum to be expended) those
works for study and reference whose price or
rarity places them beyond the reach of people
with small incomas. From a literary point of
view, it should be as comprehensive as the sum
for expenditure will permit. The proximity of
the Free Public Library in Sydney, ten miles
away, should be remembered. Special attention
should be paid to Australian books. The library
should not be a means of saving the pockets of the
well-to-do ; or of amusing idlers. And the com-
parative value of every book in the list should be
carefully weighed to reach these ends.
Upon all these points the Rookwood list, by
whomsoever compiled, invites criticism. In the
first place,, it does not contain the classical
masterpieces of literature. A list like Lubbock’s
list of “The Hundred Best Books” should be
the backbone of such a library—with many
omissions, doubtless. The library is presum-
ably given for the purpose of education, and for
the purpose of refining minds by the study of
literature; and classics of world-wide reputation
are the root of education and of literature. The
Rookwood library, as paid for by N.S.W. tax-
payers, does not contain any Greek, Latin,
French, German, or Italian classics. But it con-
tains “Cricket and Golf” (from the Badminton
Library, 10s. fid.); Anthony Hope's “Rupert of
Hentzau,” and Horace Wyndham’s “Soldiers of
the Queen” (!). Among other inferior books of
fiction are Hall Caine’s “ The Christian ” ; R. H.
Davis’s “Soldiers of Fortune”; and Hope’s
“ Prisoner of Zenda.” Other ephemeral circulat-
ing-library fiction includes books by Crockett and
lan Maclaren (there is a pronounced Scotch takte
in the list); “Richard Carvel” and “David
Haruiri ’’; two books by Marion Crawford, and
four by W. D:Howells(fis. each); Mitchell’s “Far
m the Forest” and “Hugh Wynne”; F. It.
Stockton’s “Girl at Cobhurst”; F. A. Steel’s
“On the Face of the Waters”; two books by
Stanley Weyman; and such like. What is the
justification for spending public money on second-
rate or fifth-rate fiction like this ?
Public money is similarly wasted on "specialists’
books on “Electro-Metallurgy,” “Art of Leather
Manufacture,” and “Soap-Making.” Anybody
who wants to know all about electro-metal-
lurgy or soap-making will buy such books
for himself; and should buy them, seeing
that they are professional manuals —• books
to keep. Why should the N.S. Wales
community pay for two books on “ The Breeding,
Rearing, and Management of Canaries ” ? Cannot
the Rookwood canary-breeder buy his own ? The
undiseriminating compiler’s habit of taking
several “series” of books in block, instead of
culling, results in the acquisition of two books on
“Manual Training,” where one would have
sufficed ; seeing that there are a “Popular Edu-
cator,” an “Industrial Cyclopaedia,” and other
books which cover the same ground. The whole
of the “ Social Science Series,” containing many
useless volumes, is thus acquired; and Benjamin
I ranklin is included in the,“ American Statesmen
Series’ (£4 45.) and in a separate “Life” by E.
Robins. Is not one life of Ben Franklin enough
for Rookwood ? Who compiled this list ?—was it
compiled by an alleged expert or by a bookseller
with a keen eye to business ?
The Rookwood list includes twelve volumes by
Stevenson and one by “Rolf Boldrewood ; ” six
by Ohas. Kingsley (including his comparatively
valueless “ H istorical Essays ”), and one by Henry
Kingsley; and so on. One energetic firm of
local publishers is represented by some dozen
books, including Garran’s out-of-date “Coming
Commonwealth,” and a cookery book; while H.
Kingsley’s “ Hillyars and Burtons,” and “Boldre-
wood s” “Miner’s Right” and “Squatter’s
Dream,” are omitted.
And all these are not a tithe of the objections
to be raised to the Rookwood list. A good half
of the books represent wasted public money—if
not intrinsically, then in comparison with the
books which might have been purchased ; and as
the other Govt, grants have probably been ex-
pended in the same fashion, the sooner the Dept,
of Public Instruction imports some brains the
better for the N.S.W. community.
A Plea for Age.
FROM my standpoint, I would preach this
saving gospel to all despairing souls of
thirty.
lam thirty-one. Many years ago, when
1 was a young man, I looked forward to this
maturity with grievous forebodings. With all my
passionate love of modernity, in my youth I
always hated every mention of the Twentieth
Century, because I knew that when it dawned I
should be in my thirty-second year, seeking dis-
mally to enliven my dotage with the recreations
of a grandfather. And to-day I laugh at the
bygone evil days made heavy by these fears; for
I can still put on my boots without assistance,
and I still find it very good to be alive.
The early glamour is gone now, and with it the
mists of many early illusions ; but joy, although
it comes less frequently it may be, and in grayer
garb, was never, surely, more acutely sweet.
How glorious they seemed at the time, those
escapades of the callow ! How saturate of honey
and wine, and subtler things no stammering
tongue of mine can ever hope to put a name to !
And yet, how arid and worthless, in the retro-
spect! For many of us are happy old fellows
enough, at this late end of life. Our eyes are cleared
to-day; we recognise You 11 i’s futi i i ties, and are glad
of our purer light. The gold of many memories
turns irreparably to dross, but we are never a
whit regretful; for the great things of life,
the clean joys, the divine compensations, stand
more nobly stalwart and prominent to our view
than they did a decade of years ago: we are
worshipping the old gods with a finer reverence
and a fuller faith, as we chuck the old shibboleths
cheerfully out of window.
And yet, it is a mystery. How is it that I who
loved youth so eagerly, and with a heart so un-
divided, am old still and content ? How is it that
I, who thought there could be no delight in the
gray years, would not go back to the purple places
of ten years ago ?—no, not for a king’s inheritance.
I only know in part; but such knowledge as I
have is very significant and satisfying. We are
miserably content with ourselves, although the
honey and wine are gone.
There was the love of women, so potent an
element of the early fever heats; which has
narrowed (nay, broadened !) into the love of the
one Woman, which leads to no mad galloping of
the pulse, but rather serves to cement the bonds
of a delicious comradeship with womankind.
There was the love of books, which kept us
restless and curious as we flitted ignorantly from
book to book m the clutch of our omnivorous
appetite. And now . . . dear man ! how blessed
a thing is the companionship of books ! Books
we did not know then are firm friends now.
Books we had not heard of then, or at the best’
contemptuously ignored, we have appreciated
since in golden hours of quiet; and to-day they
occupy the niches closest to our hearts. Then, it
was the outer husk of things attracted us ; now,
it is the inner soul. Then, we knew so little of hu-
manity,, and had so outrageous a conception of our
own supreme importance in the scheme of things,
that the world of books was a curious labyrinth to
us, dimly lighted, full of glass-topped walls and
breakneck corners; and now it is a lovely and
spacious world of which we have the key, and the
occasional mazes of it only serve to beautify its
fair wide prospect and whet enjoyment with a
keener appetite.
There was the love of friends. Every man was
our friend in those bad days, so long as he (or we)
had a shilling and a thirst. In this matter, per-
haps more than in any other, we were disgrace-
fully indiscriminate then. There is a very fruit-
ful field for the moralist here; and I should like
to see him start to .cultivate it —for at pre-
sent he is horribly misemployed, for the
most part. I think the most deadly dan-
gerous thing that can happen to a young fellow
is to fall into the deeps of an unworthy friendship;
and, in 99. per cent, of cases, these unworthy
friendships are formed with men. The boy afield,
however industriously he may sow his wild oats,
rarely forms any very damaging friendship with
the girl that seduces him; nor, later, with the girl
that he seduces. It is the man with'' the twisted
ideals, or (as is more frequently the case) with no
ideals at all, that most surely damages and defaces
the young life; and probably the rule holds yet
more surely in the case of the young girl. For
sexual intimacy is not the deepest intimacy ; in-
deed, all the evidences point to the fact that the
sexual intimacies that decorate light moods are
rarely deep at all. The intimacies that count are
intimacies between persons of the same sex. Bub,
apart from all that, the boy has little knowledge
of the sweetness of friendship, and little need of
it. It is as one becomes old that one enjoys one’s
friends, and needs them. The ultimate ardours
of love are bitter-sweet, in any case, and friend-
ship has a permanent and more ennobling har-
mony. I have friends, but I could well do with
fewer, for each friend merits all my leisure if he
could spare me all his. Wlien I fall to thinking
sometimes of one friend, and another, and another,
and then remember how sparse are opportunities
and how brief is life, I suddenly realise that I am
wealthy beyond all conception of the avaricious.
And there are other things, other directions in
which the privileges of age are rich beyond
anything youth enjoys. It seems to me that, in
all the greater channels, a man must enjoy life
more and more each day until he dies. There is
the faculty of observation. The youth does not
observe, except in easy regions, and along very
narrow grooves. “ The world is so full of a num-
ber of things ” we do not see till the gray years
bring their quiet influence to bear. In youth we
have so little aid from association ; we live in the
present, reckless of the future, scarcely conscious
of the past. In youth’s period of transition and
ferment one,is constantly rushing to see a football
match, or get a drink, or meet a girl, or some-
thing; there are no recreative intervals, no
periods of formative calm ; it is only the crudest
sensations that appeal to senses immature. In
age there is a wonderful difference. Delightful
surprises await you at every street-comer: the
gracious curve of some fair girl’s neck, it may be ;
the exquisite vague outline of some thin veil
of cloud inadequately covering the sun ; some
sudden splash of pure colour, some unlooked-for
evidence of Spring. I always envy old men—
very old men, I mean, still older than myself—•
their recollections, their associations, their ac-
cumulated knowledge and experience, their ad-
mirable savoir vivre withal.
And so I might enlarge indefinitely ; for one is
so absolutely glad to be old. Life flames so full
as Death draws near to quench it, and we no
longer dread the coming of those tireless feet.
And what is the lesson of it all? Why, just
this: to those crabbed, oldish fellows to whom I
have chiefly addressed myself, Live your life !
To the young folk, eating husks with so hearty an
appetite, Live your life ! To everybody, every-
where, in all circumstances, under all skies-—Live
your life ! Which means, I take it, Live your
life deliberately, exquisitely exulting in the
chances of the day, but taking all possible thought
for the morrow, wasting no time on futile books,
stale polemics, useless emotions, or other such
garbage. Live so that every day shall add some
precious thing to that store growing against the
coming of the gray years. Be, as W. E. Henlev
finely phrases it, the captain of your soul, culti-
vating sedulously the scientific spirit of dis-
passionate enquiry and openness of mind ; but
taking no man’s mere affirmation as settlement of
any doubtful thing, and scrupulously avoiding
cant and all kindred abominations. So you shall
find it no longer horrid to be thirty ; for you shall
be blithe and gay, even'in the presence of your
children’s children.
T.
FRANK MORTON.
“For tli e sake of fair play”: “A.G.T.’s” re-
joinder
Sept. ‘23rd 1900.
The Mouse once helped the Lion ; let the Mouse help
the Lion again.
First re my syllogism.
In my ma jor premise I said “ Imagination in the high
& special.” 1 meant it as, I suppose,' you may have
meant it. I did not restate it in the conclusion'of my
syllogism first, because I think reiteration a weak &
obscure something, & next, because I obviously meant
§ Imaginative ” to mean “Imaginative in the ' high &
special sense.’V .1 wrote hurriedly, taking a few minutes
from a lunch hour, & I inadvertently omitted, the. word
But from the beginning of my middle term
I was extremely dubious about “ Imagination in the
high <fe special sense” in Tainting, as rather vague. I
can understand a man being without Imagination ;
having Imagination; and having a highly cultivated
Imagination, but “Imagination hi the high & special
sense ”is Indefinite. For one thing it implies the possible
possession of Imagination in the sense the reverse of
“High & Special” as a possible factor in painting. I
made it the major premise, against my judgment, feeling
that it would be unsportsmanlike to prevent your making
your escape through the “ high & special ’’'qualification
if you should choose to try it. In a fashion you did.
Do you know that you took two months to answer my
par? ‘ And you travelled a long way in those two
months !
You started out by saying that “ Imagination (in the
high and special sense*) must create images in the mind.”
(I am, at the moment of writing, in the country, so quote
from memory) & you further said that an artist painting
a portrait and obtaining something more than the outer
presentment of the sitter in his picture, did not use his
imagination because the inner spirit of the sitter shone
out to be watched and studied. (En passant-—I most
emphatically disagree with the “shining out” idea);
then “ physical objects ” could not be part of the (high
and special) imaginative paraphernalia.
In your last pronouncement you say-, “Neither the
imaginative artist nor the realistic can dispense with
physical objects in making their impressions visible.”
That is a considerable climb down ; did it fatigue you?
So an artist can paint an Imaginative picture (always
barring the “ high & special” qulification) without first
constructing “ a mental picture” &a “ physical object”
can be treated Imaginatively if it stirs the artists’ imagi-
nation. Just so. Are you aware that you have aban-
doned your claim & “ jumped ” mine?
Let the Mouse help the Lion"a little more.
The rock you split on in your artistic pronouncement is
in this obscurity of view. Let me make it a little plainer.
You look at the kind of picture a man paints, class it, &
your judgment on the picture is, more-oivless, in-
fluenced by the classification. The kind of picture a man
paints does not matter a broken hair-pin. But the
manner of the painting ! Of the manner of a
man’s painting you have not yet said one intelligible or
helpful word. The chances are that you never will : I
will even tell you why, if you wish it, but not now.
Let the mouse nibble one strand more, perhaps the Lion
can break the others ; there are many more. Just a hint
how to identify the Dodger in Logic. He distributes,
unless he be a very skilful Dodger, his terms; viz.,
“ Imagination ” ; “ Images” ; “ Imaginative- Idealism”;
“ Idealistic —Imaginative ” ; “ Physical objects ” ; “ Psy-
chical objects ” etc. : when he does that—drop him. lie
is trying to confuse you & is making for shelter. When
he hustles as well—: thrust him out of your mind & for-
get his very existence. And now to end !
You thank the Lord that you have mind and sense ;
you take a lot for granted but no Matter ! But why
bother the Lord with thanks that the other fellow has
neither mind nor sense ? The Lord may be as interested
in the other fellow as he may be interested in you &
your jubilation may seem a suspicion vulgar, & more
than a suspicion, ill-bred ,to the Lord.
A-G-T.
N.S.W. Education Minister Perry has a Solo-
monic settling local art squabbles. He
sent for the representatives of the rival Sydney
societies and talked to them like a father. “ You
know,” he said, “some people tell me that the
Society of Artists broke away from the parent
society because some egotistical people couldn’t
get all their own way; and it deserves no sym-
pathy whatever or words to that effect. (Here
the Art Society’s representatives looked de-
lighted, and the other fellows hung down their
chins.) “On the other hand,” continued Perry,
“I am told that the Society of Artists took the
only course possible, because the Art Society is a
set of doddering old fossils or words to that
effect. (Here the Society of Artists’ representa-
tives smiled all over; and dark lightning flashed
from the eyes of the other men.) “Now,” pro-
ceeded Perry, “ you all just go into that room and
tight it out ; and if you don’t agree there may not
be any subsidy on next estimates.” With this
hint in their ears the rivals retired, and presently
came back with the news that they had agreed to
share (Squally whatever Parliament might please
to vote for the assistance of Art. And Solomon
Perry smiled a grim good-bye to their retreating
backs.
“XXtli Century Cooking and Home Decora-
tion’ is written by Mrs. E. B. Aronson
(“Thalia,” of The Sydney Mail) and published
by Wm. Brooks & Co., Sydney. The mechanical
form of the book is excellent, though there
are numerous misprints which a skilled reader
would have corrected. The literary contents are
unborn poems, romances, and philosophical
treatises of great merit.
The just complaint of “ Willewa ”
Does The Gatling Gun hope to convince us, at the
muzzle of said weapon, that Cleopatra, Sappho, and
Boadicea were actually red-headed women ? The “ British
warrior queen ” belonged to the dark-haired Celtic race.
She of the Nile was dark even to swarthiness—no straw-
berries-and-cream, but night-and-poppies; while the
traditions of the impetuous Greek poetess, who chose so
promptly the blooms of oblivion when the passion-flowers
would not blossom, describe her as “ petite brunette.”
Doubtless they all had the red-gold hair of Lilith wound
about their hearts ; but on their heads was the blue-black
crown of cool intellectual power, and it was this which
gave force and direction to the soft hand of passion,
enabling them to rule over men and Fate as by enchant-
ment.
Your red-headed woman is too easily captured and
tames too quickly : did the red-haired Elizabeth know her
weakness when she decided that she and England would
have no master? But you are never sure of the dark-
haired woman into whose heart the red hair of Lilith burns
deeply. She does not intend that you shall be. She
keeps you in breathless expectation of an eruption of the
fires you feel are there. And never are you her master;
for, though the citadel capitulate to-night, you must
begin the siege anew to-morrow.
I’m the red-headed man, of course.


dfa
(Size, when closed, 3J inches).
Write for W. JNO. BAKER’S Free Illustrated Designs
... of Cutlery . . .
W. JNO. BAKER’S No. 211 FINE QUALITY and FINISH, Stag Handle, 3-Blade
with Bolster Ends, as illustrated, 4/6 each, Post Free any Colony.
POCKET
W. JNO. BAKER, Cutler, 3 Hunter Street, Sydney.
KNIVES
Kangaroo, Wallaby, -—m.
Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
S 3 75fDNE Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
P Do
4
nrrm
111
\s^
QfiH
VVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
I
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tirea of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
. ELECTRICAL. APPLIANCES, invented by
■ Sydney’s Leading 3urgeon and Anatomical Demon-
I strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
• CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
;DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
! LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
' Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
i They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
f
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
KMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and w'ishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, Is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTH. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, sypHEY.
FURNITURE, CARPETS, BEDSTEADS
AND BEDDING.
A. Hall & Co.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, covered in Rich
Tapestry and Silk Plush Borders—Couch,
2 Armchairs, and 4 Small Carved Chairs,
4 Guineas.
A. Hall & Co.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Color—Wardrobe,
dress compartment, enclosed by bevel plate-
glass door; Duchesse Dressing Table to
correspond, Marble-top Washstand, 2 Chairs,
and ToweTßail. £6 15s.
A. Hall & Co.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, Very Strong—
-6 Padded-back Chairs, Pair Easy Chairs, and
Couch, all Spring-seated. £5 15s.
A. Hall & Co.
FULL-SIZED HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Extended Eootrail and Brass-mounted ; Best
Kapok Mattress, Bolster, and 2 Pillows,
Triple Wire Mattress.
£4 15s. complete.
A. BALL & COMPANY,
561, 563, 565 & 567 George-street, Sydney.
Hall’s New Catalogue, 72 Pages, 500 Illustrations, Posted Free.
Country Orders Packed Free.
Open all day Saturday until 9 p.m. Close 1 p.m, Wednesday.
Leave Tram at Liverpool-stree or Hall’s.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
SELEGTI
jj
“By Steele Rude.”
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co
LIMITED .
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming Wool Season
21
2 %
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
ASTORAL F INANCE II SSOC'H ||TD.
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS
—(SELLING ONLY)—
LOWEST CHARGES. HIGHEST RETURNS.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDKTBY.
MPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
- New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Ttevise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
chs
f per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
the charge will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of MTaranPial Skins held Weekly.
ROW’S EMBROCATION
Testimonial from “A” Battery, R.A.A.
Upington, South Africa, 10th August, 1900.
Embrocation, which you presented “A” Battery, R.A.A., with on leaving Sydney for South
Africa, came in very useful on board ship. I continually used it for swollen legs, and found it excellent m
reducing 1 the swelling ; and also while travelling through the country it was very useful indeed, both for sores on
horses and the men. It is also a splendid cure for sprains. A lot of our men have used it for that cause with
instant relief. We have still one bottle left, and
IT IS TREASURED LIKE GOLD.
Thanking vou for your gift, I remain, yours truly,
inarming yu y S (Sff.) M. ROSS, SERGEANT FARRIER, “A ” BATTERY,
V ' ROYAL AUSTRALIAN ARTILLERY.
p.S.—You can make use of this letter whatever way you like.—M.R.
THIS UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIAL FROM Mr. SERGEANT-FARRIER ROSS ONLY REPEATS THE
EXPERIENCES OF MANY THOUSANDS WHO HAVE BENEFITED BY USING
ROW’S EMBROCATION
SOLE PROPRIETORS: EDW. ROW and CO.
af
B
C
B
HEH
mg,
SS 0 *
sa (jo
ss<m
58*08
<&u&rar)feed rjoT to or boro.
\
CERTIFICATE. —Should any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
application. Thousands Selling* Daily.
r CBB
BRIAR
DIICK MODS
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS,
Hobart.
Caulfield 0, October 20. (Special)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
in the above.
Please allot me
shares
Name .
Address
£
MELBOURNE C. Nov. 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 20-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_ shares in the
above.
Name
Address
MELBOURNE 0. Not. 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
above.
Name
Address
£ : :
shares in the
MELBOURNE 0. (Special).
100,000 Subscribers at 5-
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name_
Address.
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatters all,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


OPAT.fi, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
BgSt Prices-
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
N
\
\
RAND saw mills. circular saw mills,
band sa Voodworking machinery
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed. _ _
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
<°* vH^ fcS ‘
e.v^o’f 6 -' 1
V^'
daf
SNEEZE
And sneeze again. Then
keep on sneezing. Per-
haps you think you can
sneeze La Grippe out of
you in this way ! But
the trouble is La Grippe
isn’t in your head alone.
It’s in your hack, your
blood, your nerves, your
muscles; all through the
body, everywhere.
( It don’t take a doctor
to let you know you have it.
And it don’t take a doctor to
cure you, either.
cherry
pectoral
is the cure. It’s a sure cure and a quick
cure. It quiets your restlessness, con-
trols your fever, stops your coughing,
and drives La Grippe right out of the
system. One dose relieves; a few
doses cure.
In Large and Small Bottles.
A cure is hastened by placing over the chestOM
of Dr. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plasters. Prepared
by Dr, J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Rov/’S Cnjbrocatioij
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST As unscrupulous persons are
“"Tel iTS yoT-gSt
Row’s €n>bro^atio«).
Australia!) Mdtdal ProVidcpt Society.
MONEY TO LEND opebties.
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITYoi SUBURBAN combined
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL L
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest. not
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the P™ vilege of rP y
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notrce of^yhn
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secieta y
ƒ
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-sb.,
SYDNEY,
itgp Send for a
Catalogue.
T~W
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
*lO 15s.
important NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street. Y
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send Quotatwn
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repairea Dy
First-elass Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
((
IKOKO
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIRJ
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLINB
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
Pllpl
The i
Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says:—
“I have used
your ‘ KOKO '
now since June
last, and I have
not only stopped 1
the falling out,
which had been
excessive after a
severe illness,but
Ihave an entirely
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As I am not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this is a
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion."
V;
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
KOKO MARICGPAS_COY, f _
rtevlS MARKS. " LONDON, ENGLAND.]
in
■
Jiever njind baby! Jt will soon grow now.
‘H ARLENE’
hair.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth*
Arrests the Fall*
Strengthens the Roots*
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft*
Removes Dandruff*
Allays all Irritation*
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directions for use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle .
1 /», 2/6, and (triple 2/6 size) 476 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
]ST.S.W. Carriage
Note our New Address:
& Saddlery Maiaf. Company,
193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description ol
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Pnoe List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us. .
Our One-man Sulky, A' s ; 2-,Spring Sulk ’owf
3-Spring Sulkies, 4-7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £U.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Phretons (Single and double). Dog Carts,
and every descriptio n of vehicles in Stock and Made
border? HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us joonr
address and we will forward you our Illustrated
CataloLme and Price List. NOTICK-Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will dehver for less
Hian we ban They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
| cent more for your requirements.
(close to lledfern Railway Station).
OUII SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
af
Dolirered at any Wharf Or
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Windsor (N.S.W.) Gazette knows a Mrs.
Montmorenci Jones who pronounces her name
“Jo-neeze.”
“F C ‘ As aboriginal names are in
demand just now let me suggest “ Yabber
Yabber ” for the Federal capital.
At the Synod of the Church of England
held in Sydney recently 17 bishops were present.
The first Synod of the kind was held in Sydney in
1872. All the bishops who then attended are
In Brisbane Council. Alderman A., ex-
•tprilv. “Don’t start laughing like a hyena.
Ai B.', indignantly: “Sir, I rise Majomtof
order '” “ Wliat is the point of order . He
said 1 was laughing like a hyena. 1 am not a
Comes to The Bulletin from Maonland,
“Our Bovs: Ballads of the Transvaal War by
OF and" E.L.C.”—another proof that perhaps
the most dreadful result of this miserable South
the, most u evolved “poetry.” Of
-a-a-
"lisLrXw&nUSndt
X» t ’ otl,e ,*', d T A <r n s ta ;
fie? S\to the house *****£jg%
OSS
r?vi»athe essence of'complaisance and forgive-
“l Snot screamed, nor had he beaten
Lor She was ‘puffed’ at the time because-
} ° • „y.„ Lfrd gone outside m a hurry to get-
becaus_ -y- «he frequently cooked at that
some flour. Yes, she geousness of this
excuae’eoataggeredlhe bench that rt snddenlyfined
defendant £5 or a month.
Damn!
Why not a strong Damn with a fine lusty ring
That showeth contempt for the charlatan ways
Of good that is sham, and the damned sickly
thing
That passeth for love, and the mock upward gaze .
The syrup and softness, the blushes and lies,
Of Guilt that is modest, of cringing Pretence,
The meekness, and blandness, the sly hungry eyes
Of Sir Overnice, who is vain, and damned dense .
But when you say Damn you should mean what
you say,
And not Damn one’s eyebrows—why, damn it,
that’s coarse;
That Damn is a flam; you should Damn as you
pray, _
If ever you pray, and then Damn till you re
hoarse —
And Damn till you rend or you scorch as with fire
The things that you hate, that are coward and
low;
And Damn till you bend the stiff neck of Desire,
Or you may be damned, and be damned ere you
know.
V.
D. FRASER LUMSDEN.
To Forgive.
Young acid wine that mellows in its cask ;
Young hearts that turn their bitterness to sweets ;
Ah age, still age ! thy chemistry completes
The fermentation. Thou hast done thy task.
And—if the law that labors to benumb
The fierceness of revenge, the sting of hate,
Applies in truth to Life and Death and Fate,
Oh, how indulgent God must have become !
N.Q.
VON KOTZE.
The Hurt of the Wind.
The lamp burns low ; it is midnight ;
In its dim diminished glow
The thoughts that come are weary,
And woeful the thoughts that go.
Song after song I have numbered;
No calm bring they nor rest;
My brow grows chill for her breathing,
And anguished my breast for her breast.
The night at first was windless,
The stars in the dark were kind.
Who dimmed the stars in the darkness ?
Who loosened the lion-wind ?
Three hours it roared as a lion,
As a lion hungry and grim,
Who moves through a midnight forest
Where none may hide from him.
A tree in the garden wrestled,
Its leaves fell down in a host ;
I thought of a ship and a maiden,
A reef and a white-lipped coast.
The wind that roared like a lion,
It moved as mute as a ghost,
But still thought I of the maiden,
And still of the white-lipped coast.
There came three taps at the window,
And, rising, I flung it wide,
A branch thread-held, wind-broken,
Swung loose from a tree outside.
Three taps— they seemed as a message
That said to my soul alert:
“ Me too. me too, O Watcher!
Me too hath the loud wind hurt.”
Came not all the night my loved one
To ease me of fears utiguessed,
Though chill I grew for her breathing
And anguished my breast for her breast.
Anon I shall know the tree’s meaning
And laugh at the loud wind’s boast ; .
Yet think I still of the maiden
And still of the white-lipped coast.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


THE
PLUM
af
Price—SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d.; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Ca> e, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
St op 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in th; market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
&: A-ITKEINT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYIDIMEY.
The Australian Widows' Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
niiiTD , Established 1871.
1 whil* o ,n ad T ;°, n f '.° transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
wnicn issues special Policies granting—
it R IpI!T, n °f proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
*• a i aia-up l olicy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. OARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
af
FEOERHL nuti HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMER, AND
CENTRE OF CITY.
Every Modern Convenience
Electric Light in Every Room
Sanitary Arrangements Perfect
Home Comforts
Suites for Families.
ROOMS ALL SIZES, ALL PRICES.
For Cards of Tariff write to . .
H. Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
A PROSPEROUS COMPANY means>—
PROSPEROUS CLIENTS.
John Bridge l Co’s ltd. Clients Grew H.
Ask any SENDER or GROWER REASON.
GOLDEN SALES!!!
Redirect result of our determined efforts on your behalf.
For past 30 years or every year since 18*70.
Wool. Hides.
Tallow. Skins.
Finance.
m
i
af
ƒa
A
HUI
is
STICK T 0
GAME©
SIGARETTES
E. RICH & COMPANY, LIMITED.
P&B
*£»
©
©
P&B
Relates the following; experience:
Our Home was built nearly tour years ago upon a rock, out of
which water is oozing at all times of the year, and
while the foundations below the P & B Damp Course are always wet, the
walls above are always dry. As the foundation over which the Damp-
course was laid is 1J" wider than the wall, that portion which projected
was covered with cement. In one place this cement has been accidentally
removed, thus exposing the Dampcourse, which shows no signs of
deterioration whatever.
The Fowl Houses
as well as a portion of our home
proper, was roofed with P & B
Ruberoid Roofing 1 , nearly four years since, and appears perfectly good
now, in fact, during the recent heavy rains and gales, when 68 miles an
hour were recorded by Mr. Russell, and during which our Tile Roof was
quite inadequate to keep out the storm, our P & B Ruberoid Roof was
perfectly watertight. This roof cost less, and is cooler than the
iron roof over the scullery.
We Always Keep
a roll of P & B Ruberoid about the place
for general use, it is such a handy mate-
rial to handle, my wife can handle it as well as she can a piece of carpet.
The Ruberoid gets a bit dark after a while, so we have painted it with
P& B Red Ideal Paint, to match the tiles in colour. We are now using
it as a Ceiling- under the iron roof of the scullery, which makes the room
much cooler.
P&B RUBEROID COSTS MUCH LESS /THAN GALVANISED IRON, AND IS COOLER.
SYDNEY.
LONDON.
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1077,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1900.
Price 6d.
TOUCHING THE PUP GENTLY: A PHASE OF THE "HOLY WAS.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 0 P
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... Goo
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Xhe Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that, we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and. White .
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions ’ under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of. The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent tinless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of Ud. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland ivill be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage — l %d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
7%e
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1900.
A Policy for the Commonwealth.—
The Federal Tariff Again.
The Foreign-trade enthusiasts of N.S.W.,
and the Remnant which follows that creed
in other States, is just now banging its
hollow drum with great vim to the two
tunes which make up the whole of its
vocabulary. They are : “ Look at England
as compared with Protectionist nations, and
see the glorious results of Freetrade,” and
“Look at N.S.W. as compared with Vic-
toria, and see the same thing.” Last week
The Bulletin did look at England. This
time it proposes to look at Victoria in like
manner. Victoria, to be sure, isn’t by any
means the only Protectionist province in Aus-
tralasia. Maoriland, for example, follows
the same policy, and Maoriland i 3 prosper-
ing exceedingly just now. Still as the
N.S.W. Freetraders have chosen of late
years, and most of all since the bursting of
the Vic. land boom, to take Victoria as the
one and only example of the horrors of Pro-
tection, this paper doesn’t object much.
* * * *
To start at the beginning, however, the
comparison between N.S.W. and Victoria is
not a comparison between Freetrade and
Protection. The statement that N.S.W. is
Freetrade is one of the chronic lies which
pass for truth among the unreasoning
through much iteration. In N.S.W. the
sugar industry is protected to the extent of
£3 a ton on raw sugar and £4 a ton on re-
fined. The wine industry is protected to
the enormous extent of ss. and 10s. per
gallon ; beer is protected up to 3d. and 6d.
a gallon, being the difference between the
customs duty on imported beer and the ex-
cise on the local article ; locally-manu-
factured tobacco is similarly protected
to the extent of Is. 9d. per lb. ;
cigars and cigarettes up to 3s. 6d. per
lb. Biscuits, confectionery, dried fruits,
jams, jellies, treacle and molasses are
all protected, some of them heavily.
Many of these duties were first put on by
Freetraders ; they were all retained by
Freetraders. The Protection they afford
doesn’t rise out of mere need for revenue ;
the State would get more revenue by taxing
local wine, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, beer,
&c., to the same extent as the imported
articles, and at the same time it would live
up to its principles and prevent the curse of
Protection falling on the country. And in
addition to this N.S.W. indirectly protects
its agricultural industry with differential
railway rates, and boosts local enterprise in
various sidelong fashions. A party which
hasn’t the courage to fully practise its own
doctrine; which is never tired of telling
about the advantages of absolute Freetrade,
yet dare not enforce absolute Freetrade,
even when it has got into office on the Free-
trade ticket, and when it isn’t driven by
revenue necessities ; which curses Protection
in every shape and form, yet lives, to some
extent, by surreptitiously practising Protec-
tion—ought to be out of court, and only its
ineffable impudence keeps it afloat. It is
self-convicted of being either a shameless
fraud, or a conspirator trying to injure
N.S.W. by imposing on it fragments of a
system which it knows to be injurious. The
comparison between Victoria and N.S.W.,
so far as it rests on tariff matters, is a com-
parison between complete Protection, openly
and honestly acknowledged, and partial Pro-
tection, denied and lied about and practised
sneakingly in the dark.
* * * *
Apart from the tariff question, there are
two principal methods of making things
boom in Australia. One is by borrowing
lots of money ; any State will prosper while
lots of money are coming into it, no matter
how the money is acquired ; and land values
will go up, and industries will flourish, and
wages will be high and trade brisk. Another
way is by selling abundance of public lands,
which is a way of bringing money into the Trea-
sury without borrowing, though in the end it
is almost as thriftless as the loan process.
This is leaving out all question of good or bad
internal administration on other than tariff
matters ; as a general thing internal adminis-
tration has been moderate, or a little less
than moderate, all over this continent.
Victoria took to Protection when its
gold-boom had broken, and its wealth
had in a great measure fled, and it
was a very poor, dispirited land. .Up
to 1892 both N.S.W. and Victoria boomed
heavily on borrowed money, but N.S.W.
boomed the most. They both kept up an
artificial state of prosperity by trading off
public lands wholesale and using the pro-
ceeds as revenue, but N.S.W., having more
lands and being more reckless, did it
hardest. Also, they ivere both blessed with
a revenue from land-rents, though N.S.W.
had about three times as much of this as
Victoria. At the end of 1892 Coghlan
estimated that N.S.W. had borrowed pub-
licly and privately to such an extent that the
net interest payable to foreign creditors was
£5,100,000 a year, which, assuming that the
interest averaged 5 per cent, all round,
meant a net public and private debt of
£102,000,000. Victoria’s net interest bur-
den was £3,392,000, representing, on the
same basis, a total public and private bor-
rowing of £67,840,000. This meant, roughly
speaking, that N.S.W. had borrowed about
£34,000,000 more than its neighbor to keep
up an artificial prosperity. N.SAV.’s land
revenue averaged £2,000,000 a year for the
ten years prior to 1892 ; Victoria’s averaged
£600,000. So the main elements of the
comparison between the two States in 1892
were :
New South Wales. Victoria.
Partial Protection. Protection.
Land revenue for pre- Land Revenue for pre-
vious 10 years, about vious 10 years, about,
£20,000,000. £6,000,000.
Total aid from public and Total aid from public and
private borrowings, about private borrowings, about
£102,000,000 net. £67,840,000 net.
Total aid from public Total aid from public
loans (included in above), loans (included in above),
£54,200,000. £46,680,000.
* * * *
If N.S.W., with its vastly larger territory,
its great coal supply (coal is the first essen-
tial in manufactures), its 50 years’ start, its
boom created by the influx of about
£34,000,000 more in borrowed money than
Victoria received, the enormous extra en-
dowment it received in the shape of land
revenue, and the advantage it allegedly
derived from what its shoddy party swears
was Freetrade—if with all these things it
wasn’t materially ahead of its little rival in
1892, then it is indeed a poor look-out for
the thing which the N:S.W. shoddy party
declares was Freetrade. That a great influx
of borrowed money and a great land revenue
make a temporary boom no one has ever
denied, and N.S.W.’s advantage in these
respects is unquestionable. The only ques-
tionable element in the case is the alleged
Freetrade.
* * * *
And yet Victoria was distinctly ahead in
some respects in 1892, and very close up
in many others. It was times as
thickly populated as N.S.W. The total
value of its crops was £6,600,000 a year
against N.S.W.’s £3,900,000. The total
value of its manufactured products was, as
nearly as the N.S.W. State Statistician could
get his figures, £22,000,000 a year against
N.S.W.’s £16,000,000. It had, according to
Coghlan’s estimate, only 43,192 hands em-
ployed in its factories as compared
with N.S.W.’s 44,268, but it had
more machinery and produced more goods.
Coghlan estimated the wealth of N.S.W.
about that time at £368 per head, and Hay-
ter estimated that of Victoria at nearly
£4OO, though probably neither estimate, con-
sidering the artificial value given to almost
everything by hard borrowing, was worth
much. N.S.W. was very far ahead in
mineral and wool production, for Protection
couldn’t make acres to feed sheep on, nor
make coal and silver where they didn’t exist,
but still the total annual products (mineral,
agricultural, manufactured, pastoral, dairy-
ing, and all other) of Victoria were worth
£30,267,690, while the four times bigger pro-
vince showed a total of £35,007,490. Vic-
toria produced, according to Coghlan, £226
worth of wealth per annum for every square
mile of surface, against N.S.W.’s £93. It
was a question of much artificial coddling
with loan money, a huge subsidy in the
shape of land revenue, a splendid coal-sup-
ply to keep manufactures going, 50 years
start, and a kind of F reetrade —as against less
loan-money, very little land-revenue, manu-
factures grievously hampered by lack of coal,
and Protection. And N.S.W. did little
more than hold its own at best.
* * * *
Then a Government rose in Victoria which _
had a deep contempt for the bastard pros-
perity that arises from the throwing about
of borrowed money. Borrowing practically
ceased. The loan expenditure was cut down
from an average of £2,000,000 a year to an
average of less than £250,000. The differ-
ence meant that about 17,000 adults and
their wives and families, perhaps 80,000 or
100,000 persons in all, formerly and for
many years employed by the State on works
paid for with loan moneys, lost their accus-
tomed means of livelihood, and so did all
the people engaged in supplying these 80,000
or 100,000 with food, clothing, drink, house-
room, &c. So the people who formerly
lived on loans, and their families and direct
and indirect dependents, emigrated, where-
ever it was possible, to States where lavish
loan expenditure was still in progress. The
whole of the recent emigration from Vic-
toria is fully explained by the vanish-
ment of £1,750,000 a year of loan ex-
penditure. It became a case of competition
between N.S.W., with nearly four times its
rival’s territory, 50 years’ start, abundance
of cheap coal, which should enable it to
manufacture at far less than Victorian rates,
a huge land revenue and a great influx of
loan money to create artificial prosperity,
and its alleged Freetrade—against a small
province with very little of the sinews of
manufacture (i.e., coal), very little land
revenue or borrowed money to create an
artificial boom, and Protection. For the
six years, 1893-98, the elements of the com-
parison were about thus
N.S.W. Victoria.
Partial Protection. Protection.
Gross Land Revenue Gross Land Reverie
about £12,000,000. about £2,700,000.
State Borrowings State Borrowings
about £9,500,000. about £1,350,000.
Private borrowings unknown, but supposed to be very
small in both cases.
If N.S.W. by 1899 (the last year for
which most of the returns are available) was
not vastly ahead of Victoria it is again a very
poor look-out for the blessings of alleged
Freetrade. For N.S.W. had, between ’92
and ’9B, apart from taxation, over £17,000,000
—nearly £3,000,000 a year—more to spend
in paying wages to its people, and that is
sufficient to find work for nearly 30,000 men,
or counting their wives and dependents, to
find sustenance directly for fully 120,000
people, and indirectly for all the multitude
employed in feeding, clothing, housing,
amusing, educating, and quenching the
thirst of these 120,000. The borrowing and
land-sale policy is the most stupendous
coddling of local industries on record ; even
a 25 per cent. Protectionist tariff is nothing
to it. Yet in 1898 Victoria was still three
times as thickly populated as N.S.W., and it
is recorded that there were 54,778 persons
employed in Victorian factories against
52,518 in N.S.W,, showing that the Protec-
tionist State, which was behind in 1892, had
got a decided lead. And the interesting
Coghlan, in his “ Seven Colonies of Aus-
tralasia,” thus sets down the value of all the
products (agricultural, pastoral, manufac-
turing, mining, &c.) of the two provinces for
the years 1892 and 1897 —no returns are yet
available later than 1897 :
Value of All Products.
1892. 1897.
N.S.W. ..£35,007,490 ..£33,751,000 .. Decrease £1,256,490
Victoria. 30,267,690.. 30,405,000 .. Increase 137,310
The returns of hands employed in factories,
as already mentioned, show a similar ad-
vantage for the Protectionist State which
calls itself Protectionist, as against the semi-
Protectionist State which calls itself Free-
trade :
Hands Employed in Factories.
1892. 1898.
N S.W. .. .. 44,268 .. 52,518 .. Increase 8,250
Victoria.. .. 43,192 .. 54,778 .. „ 11,586
The first table—that dealing with production
—is the best test of all, for it takes in every-
thing by which the two communities make
an honest living—floating loans to create
employment isn't making an honest living.
And it shows that, while the Protectionist
province has improved a little, the alleged
Freetrade one has gone back very badly.
The statistics of hands employed in manu-
factures point in the same direction ; these
two eminent Freetrade authorities, Pulsford
and Reid, evidently felt it so when they
got down to the cheap dodge of institut-
ing comparisons between one year in
N.S.W. and a different year in Victoria in
order to give the former the appearance of.
being ahead. Many other comparative
details are, unfortunately, wanting, and will
remain so till next census supplies the
deficiency.
Incomplete as the returns are, the above
are some of the reasons why The Bulletin,
when it views the relative conditions of
N.S.W. and Victoria, is rather confirmed in
its Protectionism than converted to the side
of the party which practises semi-Protection
and preaches Freetrade. Of course taxation
is heavier in Victoria than in N.S.W., but
Freetrade wouldn’t make it lighter unless
Freetrade could give Victoria 220,000 square
miles more land to derive revenue from,
and the only important river system in Aus-
tralia to make that land valuable. So the
subject may be summed up in these four
positions :
(1) Tub Bulletin is prejudiced against Freetrade by the
fact that its own advocates haven’t courage enough to try
it. It has doubts of the doctor who won’t try his own in-
fallible remedy for everything, and the inventor who
won’t stand anywhere near his own gun when it is fired.
(2) It is further prejudiced against Freetraders because
they are such perverters of the truth. The crowd which
can' call N.S.W. a really Freetrade country has so many
suspicions on its character that there are grave doubts
about everything it says.
(3) It declines to be such a fool as to regard a compari-
son between semi-protected N.S.W. and fully-protected
Victoria as in any sense a comparison between Freetrade
and Protection. But it reckons that if there was any
chance that real Free-trade would show .better results the
Freetrade party would have tried Freetrade before now.
(4) It declines to be so one-eyed as to suppose that
Freetrade and Protection account for everything. If a
Protectionist is only 4ft. 6in. high, while a Freetrader is
6ft. high, the former won’t grow 18in. immediately' he
becomes a convert to the shoddy gospel. If a Freetrader
is born heir to a large estate and a Protectionist isn’t, the
latter won’t be horn again through changing his creed.
Still, if the Freetrade party will prove that the accept-
ance of their doctrine by Victoria will make that State as
large as N.S.W., give it the same abundant supply of
cheap coal and the same land revenue, this paper is quite
willing to regard any deficiencies in Victoria as compared
with N.S.W. as entirely owing to Protection and a sudden
limitation of borrowing, as against semi-Protection and an
artificial boom created by the lavish use of loan funds.
But when Freetraders (who daren’t practise Freetrade)
claim that Protection ought to make a State with 87,C( 0
square miles hold more people than one with 310,0 i 0
square miles ; that these people should be richer, despite
the fact that land is the biggest single asset in this country
■ — i.e., that Protection ought to make land nearly four
times as valuable ; that the people in 87,000 square miles
should have more income and more industries than those
in 310,000 ; and that Protection ought to more than make
up for £1,500,000 a year extra land revenue, and if it
doesn’t Protection is no good—then this paper regards
the Freetrade party as a crowd that is talking foolishly
through its hat —the imported hat that it paid for out of
loans.
* * * *
The Bulletin does not claim, despite all
the figures given above, that Victoria has
more wealth than N.S.W. in the aggregate.
It may have—or it may not. Private wealth
consists largely of land, and there are
45,700,000 acres of privately-owned land in
N.S.W. against only 24,200,000 acres in Vic-
toria. At an average of only £1 an acre,
taking town and country together, this gives
N.S.W. a start of £21,500,000 on one item
alone. But what this paper says is, that it
has “looked at Victoria,” and after com-
paring, so far as is possible, a large number
of diverse circumstances which can’t be
reduced to mathematical certainty, it reckons
that the balance of evidence is largely in
favor of Protection. And it votes for Pro-
tection as the policy of the Commonwealth
accordingly.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
How the Commonwealth offers Maoriland
£48,000,000.
A reverend gentleman in gaiters, Bishop Had-
field, of Maoriland, writes in a recent issue of the
Rangitikei Advocate to inquire—
Whether any one of your readers can state distinctly
what possible benefit to Maoriland it will be to federate
with Australia. I have never yet heard one good reason
in favor of it.
This is not quite the sort of thing one would ex-
pect from a bishop. That holy man should rather
be found inquiring, in a spirit expressive of the
brotherhood of man, how far Maoriland’s entrance
into the Commonwealth would be beneficial to the
world at large. His coldly selfish view of the
matter is grievous. If Maoriland entered the
Commonwealth it would bring to the Common-
wealth counsels a band of the most progres-
sive statesmen in Australasia, and it would
add so strongly to the democratic ‘vote
and influence in the Federal Parliament
as to make the victory of the progres-
sive party certain every time and on every
question. Bishop Hadfield, in his gross and
worldly selfishness, doesn’t consider for a moment
the good Maoriland might do in this matter ; he
looks at it with the purely bagman in-
stinct, and asks, “What do we get out of it?”
The Church is very solid about the need for self-
sacrifice on behalf of the Chinaman, but in its
dealings with its own people its instincts are apt
to be suggestive of the three globes that hang
over the side door of Israel. And yet, if Bishop
Hadfield knew anything about finance, which
sordid subject is, after all, one of the biggest fac-
tors in the case, he wouldn’t ask such
questions. What Maoriland would make out of
the Commonwealth, if it came in and sent along
some good men who would help to make the best
of the opportunity, is, roughly speaking, about
£48,000,000 —not all at once certainly. It may
seem incomprehensible to a man whose finance is
only of the collection-plate order, but the fact is
all there. Will the bishop kindly look at these
points and assimilate them in detail:
(1) Maoriland owes about £48,000,000, and the interest
is about £3 17s. per cent, all round. This entails on the
people a lamentable burden for interest. A family of
five has to pay about ss. a week on this item alone.
(2) Maoriland itself can’t do much at converting this
debt into lower-priced stock. About half of it has
been fixed at 4 per cent, till 1929, and unless a reduction
can be effected by offering better security the load is
immovable.
(3) Maoriland can’t offer better security. It has al-
ready given all the security it possesses.
(4) The Commonwealth could offer better security. It
could at once commence a process of converting the
separate provincial debts, each with the security of only
one province behind it, into a uniform 3 per cent. Federal
stock with the security of all Australasia behind it. The
experience of Canada has already proved that a Federa-
tion can borrow at about 10s. per cent, cheaper than even
the most solvent of the provinces which make lip that
Federation, and Maoriland isn’t the most solvent by a
long way. It would take too long to explain all over
again why this is so ; it depends to some extent on a
knowledge of the workings of the London money market
which a bishop can’t be expected to possess. But the
fact can be ascertained any day by a glance at the Stock
Exchange quotations for Canadian or U.S. stock in any
London daily.
(5) It is a very moderate estimate to assume that the
Commonwealth, by this process of conversion, could, in
a few years reduce the interest on Maoriland’s debt by
10s. per cent. Maoriland’s debt carries a vy extravagant


rate of interest, and that province would gain more by a
conversion process than some of its Australian neighbours.
(6) And if that 10s. per cent, saved was put to a sinking
fund it would (by a process of compound interest which a
bishop can’t be expected to understand) wipe off the
whole debt in about 80 years. It would do this without
charging a penny of extra taxation. Eighty years is a
good distance to look forward, but a bishop who is always
looking back as far as Genesis and forward as far as the
millenium should not mind that.
So what the Commonwealth offers Maoriland in
return for its adhesion is just £48,000,000. In
other words it offers about £1,700,000 a year. It
isn’t.offered all at once, certainly, and the offer is
contingent on Maoriland sending a few sane and
far-sighted financiers into the Federal Parliament
to help make the best of the opportunity, but the
opportunity is all there. And it is a sad thing
that bishops who can’t see a little thing like this
should wander in their minds up and down the
columns of the press asking what the Common-
wealth can offer to their province.
The O’Sullivan’s City Railway.
The O’Sullivan gives his assurance that the Syd-
ney city railway is still all right, and that it is
coming. _ His idea is to have the big station at
Devonshire-street, about a mile from the real
business centre, and then “run a circular line
round the city ” —make a sort of crooked branch,
apparently, which will carefully dodge the places
the line ought to go to. Why doesn’t The O’Sul-
livan propose, when he is at it, to make the prin-
cipal station at Newtown, and run a branch from
there ? And what is The O’Sullivan really driv-
ing at ? Sydney wants a big, useful, respectable
station in its business centre, as other places have.
It wants a railway right through the city, as
other places have. It doesn’t want to be served
by a pettifogging circular branch from a main
station away in the adjacent township of
Redfern. If Devonshire-street is to be the main
station—the big, principal, boss, important rail-
way centre—then obviously the line into Syd-
ney itself must be merely a branch. Supposing
Devonshire-street is to be the main station then
the bulk of the trains must end their journev
* 16 j5 e ’ thus leaving the present grievance almost
as bad as ever ; if they all come on by O’Sulli-
van s branch then Devonshire-street can’t be the
mam station, but merely a wayside place like
hiveleigh or Macdonaldtown. Does the O’Sulli-
van intend that about three-fourths or five-sixths
°‘, traffic shall stop at Redfern, while the
other fourth or sixth comes on ? Or is it proposed
that passengers shall change there —shall wearily
hump themselves from one train to another for the
final minute-and-a-half’s journey? And what
does O'Sullivan mean by proposing a circular
railvvay round Sydney, when the people have been
waiting 35 years or more for a railway into
Sydney ? Taking the railway into Sydney is a
simple enough proposition. Almost every other
big city in the world has solved it, and there is no
reason, save the mental paralysis of its poli-
ticians, why N.S.W. shouldn’t also. If it
is necessary to carry the line at an elevation to get
over the dip between the present station and
the Town Hall, bridge-building and the mak-
ing of embankments are not lost arts. There is
nothing specially insane about the contour of
Sydney to make it more unapproachable than
dozens of other places. If the Public Works
Committee is too weary to see this it is surely
possible to get another Works Committee, or to
pass a special act setting forth that the present
Committee being evidently a monomaniac, the law
is so far suspended as to allow of the railway
extension into Sydney in spite of its inability to
make up its mind. And if N.S.W. can afford to
go contingenting it can also afford to pay for the
extension by instalments out of revenue. Prob-
ably the best joke of all is The O’Sullivan’s assur-
ance that his plan will obviate the necessity of a
commodious city station. That is just the thing
that Sydney doesn’t want obviated. The principal
grievance is that that commodious Sydney railway
station has been obviated for 35 years or more,
and the promise to keep on obviating it is a cheer-
less kind of assurance.
♦
Turner’s Programme.
George Turner and his parcy propose to go to
the country at the approaching Victorian General
Election with a programme whose chief component
parts are these :
Election of a popular Convention for framing a new
State Constitution ; Woman Suffrage ; Old Age Pensions ;
Extension and Regulation of the Dairying, Agricultural
and Viticultural Industries ; Extension of Closer Settle-
ment Policy, with provision for compulsory purchase ;
Initiation of a thorough system of Technical Education ;
Arbitration and Conciliation, and further extension of the
Factories Act, with a Department of Industry to ad-
minister the same ; Reorganisation of the Public Service,
and stringent legislation against food and drink adulter-
ation.
It is by no means a bad-looking programme, till
you look under the surface—and then it is
weak. Of course Victoria wants a new State
Constitution, and the best thing to do is to entrust
the drafting of it to a Convention elected by
the people, and to enact that the consti-
tution so drafted shall become law if the people
accept it by Referendum. The Assembly’s
constituents will agree to such a proposition
gladly—everybody knows that. But nobody knows
better than George Turner that, whatever the
Assembly may do, the House of 48 Rich Land-
lords, when it is asked to empower a popularly-
elected Convention to draft a constitution embody-
ing the reform or abolition of the 48 Rich Land-
lords, and to leave the acceptance or rejection of
that constitution to the people, will throw the
measure downstairs every year regularly for the
next century unless some special means of com-
pelling this assent can be devised. Of course the
Convention might be created, and the new Con-
stitution drafted, without the assent of the Upper
House, but then that insolent, selfish and corrupt
oligarchy would throw the Constitution down-
stairs instead. Nothing can be done without the
assent of the House of Landlords, and a
proposal for reform which doesn’t include any
scheme for forcing or inducing or bribing
the Landlords to give their assent, is a
mockery and an insult to the popular intelligence.
The Bulletin still believes that the most pro-
mising way out, bar red revolution, is to send up
from the Assembly a measure for transforming
the Vic. House of Rich Landlords into a body
elected on the same basis as the Federal Senate,
and further enacting, by way of plain bribery,
that each existing member shall have a life pen-
sion of £lOOO a year to buy off his opposition and
induce him to abdicate his billet as a curse to the
country. It may be a doubtful idea, but it would
be cheaper than the present method, and it is
better than no idea at all. Turner doesn’t offer
any idea, and without one his proposed reform is
a tiling for the gods to jeer at. Further, Turner
advocates Old Age Pensions —and proposes that
the Pension Fund should be made up by taking
£50,000 or £60,000 a year from revenue ; by setting
aside the money saved by the gradual falling
in of the present Civil Service pensions ; and
by utilising the cash to be paid by the Federal
Government for the Vic. telegraphs, &c., these
having been constructed out of revenue. Now
Victoria’s Civil Service pensions run to £311,000
a year. They have just begun to decrease, for
many of the existing pensioners are very old, but
still they are only decreasing at the rate of £3OOO
a year as yet, and even a dozen years hence there
may not be more than £lOO,OOO a year available
from this source. And there is no evidence that
the Federal Government will pay a single copper
in money when it takes over the Vic. telegraphs,
etc. If it is well-advised it will pay for them
simply by taking over a corresponding portion
of the Vic. public debt —and then the only way
Turner’s scheme could be carried out would be
by openly floating a loan to pay pensions with,
which is too impossible. And if the Common-
wealth does pay in cash, the money is all wanted
to cover the deficit, so again things are no
“forrarder.” A trusted leader with a workable
scheme for making the House of Landlords assent
to its own reform, and for finding the money to
pay Old Age Pensions with, could sweep the polls
in Victoria next month. But both sections of the
Liberal party merely approve of these reforms,
and ask the people to approve of them. And that
is about as much use as asking the people to
approve of goodness or Heaven, or to disapprove
of sin.
-+
The 100,000 “Loafers” and “Wantons”
of S.A.
S.A. Register, mouthpiece of S.A. Tory party,
thus insults the thousands of workers who have
no vote for that State’s Property House : '
Are the hard-working, honest, public-spirited, thrifty
men and women of South Australia —they who by self-
denial and toil have acquired the right to dwell in a
cottage of their own, with its little bit of land, or to
reside in a house which they may be making their own—
are these willing to efface their well-deserved and neces-
sary special influence in the governance of this colony ?
Are the men agreeable to be placed on an equality in
franchise rights for the property Chamber with the
spongers at public-house bars or loafers at the street
corners, who have had better opportunities than them-
selves, but were lazily indolent and dissipated while the
others worked ? Do the struggling women—who by un-
daunted perseverance and industry have supported them-
selves and put by a trifle for a rainy day, being too proud
and self-reliant to go whining to the taxpayer for help—
are they content to be classed, in their power to affect
the laws shaped in the Upper House, with the most
shameless, intoxicated and pernicious drab and wanton
on the streets ?
The only inference from the above is that the pro-
perty owners and others who possess votes are a
distinct class in themselves—hardworking, honest,
public-spirited, thrifty men and women; and that
the large majority of voteless ones form another
class spongers at public-house bars, loafers and
street wantons. To go into details, there are
therefore 100,000 of this latter class—4o,ooo men
and 60,000 women—in S’Australia. The person
who pays £25 a year rent, according to the
.Register, is thrifty and public-spirited ; but if he
only pays £24 he at once becomes a street loafer.
In the case of a woman voter the landlord can, by
reducing her rent by £1 a year, transform a
virtuous and thrifty voter into a shameless wanton !
Moreover, all these moral lepers have been deemed
tit and capable to vote for both Houses of Aus-
tralia’s greatest Parliament —the Commonwealth
Senate and House of Representatives—and the
Register has never uttered one word of protest.
Annexing the Kanaka.
Ever since Maoriland stood out of the Federation
movement and was left behind, Premier Seddon
has manifested a feverish desire to do something,
anything, to keep his province from being over-
shadowed by the Commonwealth. If it joined the
Commonwealth it would be one of the three lead-
ing States, and by reason of its wealth and pro-
gressive character it would probably exercise a far
larger influence than even its large population
would entitle it to. But Seddon didn’t want to
be one of three leading States, even in the most
democratic Commonwealth in the world. Nor
did he want to jog along in the old, prosperous
way ; Maoriland looks imposing enough as com-
pared with Queensland, N.S.W., or Victoria, but
as compared with United Australia it would be a
mere Flyspeck, and Seddon wasn’t taking any Fly-
speck. So in his desire to swell up and bloat out
at any cost, Richard of Kumara is trying hard to
build up a Maoriland Federation or empire in the
Pacific, and to inorease the population of his pro-
vince by a large annexation of niggers and sun-
dries. The Legislature at Wellington has been
asked to sanction the annexation of the Cook
Islands and some adjacent groups (about 20,000
niggers); and a scheme for union with Fiji (about
120,000 niggers) is also in the air. These addi-
tions, if the deals come off, will make Maoriland a
much bigger province than it is now, though
whether an enlargement which arises through the
annexation of inferior races is the kind of enlarge-
ment that is worth having is a different matter.
When Maoriland has somewhat educated its new
niggers, and got them out of their insular habits,
it obviously can’t well prevent them coming to
compete with the white Maorilander, and supply-
ing cheap colored labor to the Maoriland employer.
It can’t very well exclude its own subjects, what-
ever it may do as regards outsiders. And it can’t
put duties on the cheap nigger-grown produce of
its own subjects ; the Maorilander will have to
compete with his economical unclothed brother in
an open market, and if the white man (who has to
pay for clothes) comes off badly in the contest it
is his own look-out. The proposed annexation
shows that the plea of distance assigned as a
reason for standing out of the Commonwealth was
a rather hollow pretence ; if Maoriland can’t com-
bine with white Australians because the latter are
1200 miles away, it is difficult to understand how
it finds it so easy to combine with niggers
at a still greater distance. Apparently, there-
fore, it stood out merely through jealousy and
smallness of mind. If ever Maoriland changes its
mind —and it change its mind —and wants to
enter the Commonwealth, its proposed new
niggers will make a considerable difficulty.
Australia would be more than pleased to feder-
ate with the white Maorilander, but federating
with the miscellaneous Kanaka isa different thing.
Australia knows the kanaka by heart; it has
“been there,” and probably understands that
cheap brown individual much better than Seddon
does. And it is difficult to see what the Seddon
Govt, expects to gain by its kanaka policy, except,
the bloating of its vanity through making its area
and its population returns look larger in books of
reference. Premier Seddon says wildly that the
Cook Islands (about 1700 miles away) are “geo-
graphically an integral part of Maoriland,” but
even that doesn’t necessarily make the game
worth the candle.
♦
Early Closing'.
The Early Closing Amendment Act, now before
N.S.W. Parliament, gave an opportunity to all
those people who are so grieved about the Liberty
of the Subject to tell their tale over again. The
theory that the father of every suburban family
works in the city, and that he always carries the
loaf home at night in his grimy, horny hand —his
Wife, it would seem, being invariably a lunatic
who can’t make purchases herself, and that the
early closing of subui’ban shops has compelled him
to buy the loaf in the city and has therefore ruined
the suburban tradesman, came up again. Nobody
could say that he ever saw a long procession of
house-fathers carrying the bread and beef home at
night, so that the latter might be cooked by the
insane house-mother after their arrival, in which
case tea wouldn’t be ready till about eight. No-
body gave the address of the ruined suburban
shopkeeper, or showed his insolvency-schedule,
or mentioned where the despairing person
drowned himself; but many persons were
solid to the effect that he was there all
right. The general attitude of these friends of
the toiler was this: They were all in favor of
shorter hours for shop employes. They held that
compulsory early closing was an outrage. They
held that long hours were also an outrage. When
they were asked how shorter hours could be got
without early closing, seeing that it was impos-
sible to watch all the shop employes of N.S.W.
and see how many hours they worked, and the
overworked employe would have to swear that he
or she wasn’t overworked or else get the sack,
they said the Government ought to manage that
somehow. They also held that though it might
be right to close the big shops at 6 p.m. closing
the small ones which didn’t employ hired assist-
ance was a Sin. Being asked why a man should
be allowed to work his own daughter up to 10 p.m.
without pay, when he wasn’t allowed to work
another man’s daughter later than six for pay,
they only said something about the Liberty of the
Subject. The very reasonable proposal to close
tobacconists’ shops at 7.30 aroused ayell of disfavor;
it seems to be agreed in all conservative circles
that the Cornstalk is a man of so little foresight
that he can never, by any possibility, remember
to buy his threepenny cigar or plug of tobacco
before 7-30. And a great howl and curse raged
round section 15 of the new Bill. Lyne’s original
law provided that shops must be closed at a
certain hour. The courts promptly drove the
usual horse and cart through this by deciding that
to “close” didn’t necessarily mean to shut the
door, but merely to leave off business, and soon
shops began to be found with the doors open, and
the gas lighted, and people inside, at all manner
of hours. It was always alleged, if necessary,
that the people were visitors, and if assistants
were kept late they were also described as having
returned on a visit. No conviction was possible
unless two policemen (one to corroborate the
other) could come round the corner suddenly
enough in every case to find a purchase being
actually effected. So Lyne took the bull by the
horns, and proposed to enact that “ closing
shall mean the shutting and fastening of all
doors leading from the shop to the street,
It was obviously the only way out, but
the Tory party had a bad fit of sorrow in the inte-
rests of certain alleged shopkeepers who, it was
claimed, had only one door—the front one to
serve for house and shop, and who would asphvxi-
ate inside for want of air. If there are persons so
horribly situated, which is quite probable, the
new version of the Early Closing Act may do
good; it will inevitably be followed, sooner or
later, by a law compelling the awful landlord to
provide a separate house-entrance for all premises
which serve as house and shop in one, and Sydney
will be the better for the change. But many solid
Tories wanted to practically drop early-closing,
\ e , sfc , the , tenant should be deprived of fresh air
Most of these people averred all the tune that
thel , r yearnmg to ameliorate the condition ot shop
™*ers was something tremendous £he world
18 f “ u f P ersons w }\° are fav « r of ., reform but
a & amst ever y possible way of getting it.
'
Gone Overboard.
. .
The Victorian House of 48 Rich Landlords last
week rejected, by 22 votes to 10, the Womans
Suffrage Bill—a measure that lias been passed by
the People’s Chamber no less than five times,
The same old wearisome arguments were reiterated
by the equally wearisome speakers—that there
was no demand for it, and that, though two dif-
ferent Assemblies had passed the Bill several
times, the question had never been put promi-
nently before the electors, and so forth. The one
sensible statement made in the House of I at was
that of Mr. Knox, who, though againstthe measure,
professed himself willing to abide the direct
decision of the electors, and to that end pro-
posed a referendum on the subject at the
approaching general election. And, if Knox
is really in earnest he should give notice of a
motion to that effect, and do his best to get it
carried. Premier M‘Lean has already notified
that he will introduce a Bill to effect Knox’s
alleged purpose, and, if the 48 Landlords repre-
sent—as they claim—the opinion of the country,
they should welcome the chance to prove the fact.
The comic speech of the evening was. that of A.
O. Saciise, who wanted to put woman on the
same old pedestal so often referred to, and keep
her pure and uncorrupted by political strife, and,
when reminded that women had to work in fac-
tories, and were therefore as much entitled
to votes as male workers, retorted that
11 ethically, women should not be in fac-
tories.” “Ethically” is good, but it doesn’t
alter the fact that women are in factories,
This episode is a whole essay on the futility of
Turner and M‘Lean and Shiels and all the other
Liberal leaders, so far as their Constitutional
Reform ideas go. Both sections of the Liberal
party are going to the country next month on the
cry of Council Reform. It is the only cry that
amounts to a row of pins in Victoria just now,
for, till the Council is reformed, no other reform
is possible. But neither party .proposes anything
beyond the idea that the Assembly’s electors
should approve of Council Reform, and the
Assembly should pass the necessary Bill, and the
Council should kick it into the street, and leave
things as they are. Either the people must roll-
up, Cromwell fashion, and make the Council
pass the Reform Bill under pain of having its
brains spilt over its immaculate shirt-front,
or the Bill must contain a big enough bribe
to the present 48 to induce them to pass it
and throw their privileges and their class over-
board. Or else the British Government must be
induced to give Victoria a new Constitution. Or
else a great Liberal Association must be formed
with £lOO,OOO or £150,000 of funds, and it must
find a qualified democrat to contest every Council
election, pay his election expenses if necessary,
pay him a handsome salary while he sits in the
Council and keeps straight, and go on doing this
till, in four years, it may possibly be able to corn-
mand a democratic majority in the House of Land-
lords, and get its Reform Bill through. Will
David Syme form the Association, put down a
big subscription and pass the hat, and be the
saviour of his country, and the maker of a new
Victorian Constitution ? The biggest opportunity
he will ever tto e him ° e if the Man who
Runs Victoria is at his hand. It is a chance that
only comes to one ma n in a million, or so.
_ ’
... ~~ , j ‘
The (so far as it goes) wise and statesmanlike
Municipalities Act which the Lyne Government
ls trying to boot through an unresponsive corn-
sLdk Legislature should be helped by a recent
occurrence m Paddington, Sydney. Two old
tenantless houses in that suburb were condemned
all “ ordered to be pulled down. The owner didn’t
pull them down—he simply took no notice, and
the Council, fearing ■ that they would fall on the
hea,ds ot the public and do murder on a large
scale, proceeded to take the necessary steps
towards demolition. I irst necessary step was to
serve notice on the owner, and as he couldn’t be
found everything came to a dead stop. As matters
stand, an owner, by simply keeping his address
a secret, can paralyse the whole of the processes
°f aw ; , anf f' ie statutes can only stand by and
watch his tenements fall on the public’s head, and
do nothing, t hese two buildings judiciously fell
down at last without killing anybody, but through
inability to find the owner and serve a
J ar lC ! preliminary blue paper on him nothing can
done at clearing away the ruins. The only
way r ,, °f . e eyesore is to square the local
bobby, and then hint to the local small boy. that if
he likes to carry away the wreck by instalments
a . s ®h ’f f° * marine-stores, and buy cigarettes
with the money, the Law won’t see him doing it.
Considering the hideously ramshackle nature of
“ie existing statute the new one can’t possibly
come along too soon,
~ . . -
Invited to attend the Newcastle meeting topro-
test against the recent rabid utterances of R.C.
Archbishop Redwood, Bishop “Jack” Stretch,
u° w Dean of Newcastle, replied in this level-
headed and dignified letter :
I thank you for your kind invitation; but, after very
careful consideration, I have decided that I cannot attend.
diu t 'in have acted otherwise
b “ an he end. In Australia, all religions are on a footing of
eqila lit y . None has an advantage, and if so, none must
be under any disabilities. The Governor, as Governor
knows nothing-of distinctions between religions. He has
only to consider whether a function to which he is invited
is sufficient importance, from a public point of view, to
m l l JSs«„i deBerves r ri!y ?f'
co * rte sy V b llfc j t i s not the first not suppose
it will be the last, that the same preacher has shown that
his canons of taste differ from ours. When that is said,
Ido not see that we can say much more. We shall not
succeed m changing his opinions, and I do not knowany-
thing of the man that causes me to attach any particular
importance to his judgment. It reads like a sermon-ta*
that h as done duty before. We don’t expect compliment
tary references to Luther from a Roman Catholic orator,
and we are not likely to get them. I really do not think
War!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australia, fairer than the morning, stood
Upon the threshold of her Nationhood,
And Fortune smiled on her, and God was good.
She faced the future with a sovran gaze ;
And saw her banner in the sunlight blaze
With all the glory of the coming days.
The sects like cousins to each other were,
And green-eyed Bigotry grew lean with care,
And yellow Rancour rotted in its lair.
The Protestants spoke kindly of the Pope,
And even Orangemen expressed a hope
That he might come within Salvation’s scope.
The Catholics repaid the kindness well.
And hoped that Protestants might weather Hell,
And miss damnation —by a miracle.
Suspended was the sacerdotal rod,
And folk in peace to church or chapel trod,
And in the land there reigned the truce of God.
And then, St. Mary’s fane to dedicate,
Came priests and prelates from each Austral State.
And Protestants were there, both small and great.
Then rose a prelate with a bearded face —
Redwood by name, by courtesy “ His Grace”—
Who played the Devil in the Holy Place.
He was mo haggard hermit from the East,
No skin-clad anchorite—half saint, half beast—
But just a good, plain, blundering English priest.
Alas, how oft we find that want of wit
More harm than malice works ! He was not fit
To preach politely—like a Jesuit.
And now it seems no thing to wonder at
That Saxon prelates have so seldom sat
In Peter’s chair, or worn the Scarlet Hat.
This luckless prelate—let him bear the blame! —
Spoke harshly of some heretics of fame,
And kindled in the land a raging flame.
By wings of birds obscene the flame was fanned,
And rabid grew the sleek white-chokered band.
And Hate ran howling through the hapless land.
Now men who never thought of God before,
Nor used His name—save only when they swore,
For God and William, Boyne and Bible roar.
And other men in fierce defence have turned
Of Luther —men whom Luther would have
spurned—
And gentle Calvin who Servetus burned.
The snarling sects united are again—
A Pack of Wolves, a Brotherhood of Cain—
To hunt the Scarlet Woman and her train.
Good God ! who cares, when all is said and done,
That Luther’s wife was from a Convent won—
A greater Slattery with a prettier Nun ?
Calvin, and Zwinglius are in Kingdom Come
(Which Kingdom matters little : they are dumb),
With Zisca beating on his frantic drum.
And must we now the sorry spectres view
Of dour Dutch William and his angry crew
With squalid Shamus their old fight renew ?
And shall we welcome fell Fanatic Zeal—
The red-eyed Fetish with the fangs of steel—
Into the Temple of the Commonweal?
And shall we seat on high beside the Ark
Of our great Covenant that grim and stark
Rawhead-and-Bloodybones of ages dark ?
God knows ! Since human history began,
One thing is plain when we its pages scan—
There is no lunacy too mad for Man.
Vain was the teaching wise on Olivet,
Vain in Gethsemane the bloody sweat,
Vain the Great Sacrifice that paid man’s debt —
The Christian world, alas, is pagan yet.


The equitable life assurance society
of the United States.
LIBERAL TERMS TO AGENTS OF GOOD STANDING
In order to improve the position of its Agents in Australia, and to better conserve
the business, the Equitable now offers RENEWAL CONTRACTS to
first-class agents, thus giving them a pecuniary interest in their business for
several years, instead of for only one year as at present.
For refer to
8. W. D’ARCY-IRVIN ft, Manager for New South Wales and Queensland,
Equitable Building, Sydney ; or to
G. G. McOOLL and B. H. PASCOE, Managers for Victoria, S. Australia and Tasmania,
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
C. CARLISLE TAYLOR, General Manager for Australasia.
HEUPON SPA WATER;
A NATURAL ■
MINERAL WATIR^^^M
A
m
Sulphide Corporation
LIMITED,
Cockle Creek Smelting Works, N.S.W.
Situated Close to the Port of Newcastle, where
Delivery of ore can be Supervised from
ship’s side.
Capital £962,000.
Cold, Silver, Lead.
and
or
Copper
Ores and Concentrates and
Copper Matte Bought—^
... ON LOWEST TARIFF FOR PROMPT CASH.
Special Terms quoted for Larue Parcels or
Regular Supplies under Contract.
Full Particulars and Tariffs on application to
The Manager, Cockle Creek-
A. E. SAVAGE, CIBBS, BRIGHT & 00.,
Manager. Agents for Australia.
we should lose our heads when a man says exactly the
sort of thing Roman Catholic preachers are in the habit
okaying. It will not be possible to make him recant,
and we are only busily advertising his singularly unfavor-
able estimate of us. We have got to learn to live
together. We are all in one country, with absolute
equality, and the right to hold and express our own
opinions, but if we all do I fear the country will not be
to hold us. “ Magna est veritas et praevale-
” while this is my own opinion, Ido not presume to
seek to impose it upon anyone else.
The Bishop’s letter was received “ in silence.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Fedora.”
R ,OYA I j “ New Babylon.”
Palace “ What Happened to Jones" and
“ An Empty Stocking’."
Criterion “ The Penalty of Crime.”
Tivoli. Rickards’ Co.
Redfern Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
Queen’s Hall Museum of Anatomy.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Only Way.”
Theatre Royal The New “ East Lynne.”
Buou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Athenaeum Hall Rev. Haskett Smith.
Nance O’Neil returned from Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne, to Her Majesty’s, Sydney, appearing
majestically at the latter establishment on Satur-
day night. The piece was Sardou’s “Fedora,” a
Russo-French tragedy in three drinks. It is a
story of a woman in high life who loved a worth-
less man, and when he was killed for a worthless
reason in a sordid little back-stair intrigue she
embalmed his worthless memory, and made a
martyr of him, and started out to hunt down his
slayer. In time she found the slayer, and dis-
covered that the slaying was more than justified,
and loved and married her intended victim; but
by then she had set in motion a tremendous
scheme of vengeance and didn’t know how to
stop it. It was all in vain that she sat down
hard on the fuse; it fizzed away just the
same. She spent anguished nights pouring
buckets of water over it in secret, but it
wouldn’t go out. She was in the position of
the person who starts a 10-ton boulder down hill,
and then thinks better of it and tries to stop it by
prayer. Not daring to tell her husband, she just
waited till her great scheme wiped out his whole
family by an awful death ; and then, after vainly
trying to explain how she had repented and sat on
the fuse for all she was worth, she suicided. The
fate of Princess Fedora is a terrible warning to
anybody who has thoughts of advertising for a dog.
The man who advertises for a dog and gives his
address also sets in motion a train of circum-
stances that he can’t stop, and not until he sees
8(37 dogs and their owners in his front garden does
he understand what he has done.
* * * *
Several times and in several characters it
has been difficult to size up Miss Nance O’Neil.
She has played parts as no one expected they
would be played, but has put into them a
streak of originality which made it difficult to
say whether she was bad, or only unusual.
As Fedora there is no possible shadow of doubt
whatever. It is the worst thing Nance O’Neil
has done in Sydney, and it is fairly bad. In it she
is the Angry Woman, pure and simple. At the
very beginning, while she is only anxious and
worried in the marble halls of Garishkine, and
doesn’t know that anything has really happened
to her idol, she is angry. She is naturally angry
when she finds that Garishkine has been extin-
guished by parties unknown. She is hard and
loud and bitter even in the one spot where she has
a chance to be tender and womanly—when she
is married to Ipanoff, and still hopes that her ven-
geance may not come off, and that she may enjoy
perfect happiness. She has moments when her
arms wave threateningly in the air, and moments
when she ruffles her hair till it stands out round her
head like the tail of the harmful and superfluous
cat, but she is the Angry Woman all through, and
this loud, stony mood grows wearisome.
* * V *
The other people, in the main, play their
parts like human beings, and give good results.
Kingston, as Loris Ipanoff, strikes the right note
every time, except when he describes the Slav
woman—“ with her wings and her claws, tender
and caressing, coaxing and catlike, subtle and
undulating as a serpent.” It isn’t Kingston’s fault
that that description doesn’t apply and he delivers
the monologue like a true artist, but it is a very in-
appropriate description none the less. Harry
Plmnner (the programme has taken to calling him
Henry) plays the casual part of Jean de Seriex for
all there is in it. Plimmer improves continuously,
and contrasted with the Harry of a few years
ago (before he began to be Henry) he has made
remarkable advances. Joseph Came’s police
officer is quietly effective, like all Game’s work,
and Miss Roxy Barton does her little Countess in
a clever natural, life-like fashion. Miss Barton
is another member of the co. who improves
steadily on longer acquaintance. Boleslas, the
fiddler, is apparently only intended for a hilarious
caricature, and his hair is like nothing here below
except the bark roof of a bush humpy. Also
Charles Field is a marvel of wooden uprightness,
and has a lack of expression and a fixity of eye
which, at times, are almost saddening.
* * *
By way of an after-thought, Mr. Dampier
did not stage the “ Penalty of Crime” at Sydney
Criterion on Saturday, but reserved it for Mon-
day’s holiday. Saturday was consequently filled
in with an extra performance of the bare-kneed
Scotch gentleman who met three ladies of violent
language on a waste allotment—probably the pro-
perty of an ancient building society. The writer
desires to make no secret of the fact that he didn’t
go to see the “Penalty of Crime ” on that seething
Monday night, when every theatre overflowed,
and every person who had a seat had some com-
plete stranger trying to sit on top of him. After
years of contumely and wrong done to his corn,
he has sworn off holiday-night shows. He feels
safe in saying, however, that the hero’s charac-
ter was cleared about the fifth act, and
that the Incriminating Document turned up
after many vicissitudes, and, with the aid of
the funny man, fixed the guilt in the right
quarter. The hero was probably acquitted in an
off-hand manner by a policeman on the public
highway, and came into the property; or else the
heroine’s birth certificate was found in the coal
scuttle; or, failing these, it is probable that the
person who was killed in the first act wasn’t really
dead. Anyhow, further information will be forth-
coming next week.
* * * *
“New Babylon ” has been, so far, a large
financial success at Sydney Royal, though the
maddening problem about the two girls who look
so exactly alike is still a drawback. These two
girls, so far as can be ascertained, are not sisters
or other relatives. Their resemblance is not in-
herited; it just happens. It is introduced in a
cumbersome fashion; the audience makes the
acquaintance of Miss Ross as the good girl, and
when it suddenly finds her cleaning out Baker by
wicked devices it doesn’t know that she is another
girl, and just concludes that it has been taken
in. The resemblance of these two girls does
nothing very particular as it goes on, and the
final explanation doesn’t seem to avert anything
worth mentioning. But whatever else may be
unsatisfactory the immense painted ship that
bears down like a grand hotel in a troubled sea,
and picks up the good girl, can be cordially recom-
mended to all comers and under all circumstances.
* * * *
The long-enduring “Jones” passes from
Sydney Palace at the end of this week, or next
week, or thereabouts. At least his “ last nights ”
were advertised when this issue went to press, but
the most urgent inquiry at the telephone failed to
raise any information as to his successor. The
’phone was apparently cut off.
* * * *
“ Banjo ” Paterson, who improves mate-
rially as he goes on, is now telling his war-
tale around the Sydney suburbs, and is due in the
coaly city of Newcastle at the end of this week.
# *
The new feature at Sydney Tivoli is com-
posed of the Williams Sisters. There are four of
them, but these four are just about sufficient to
compose one really good-sized William Sister, the
youngest having evidently made her debut from
the bassinette. They dance and attitudinise very
pleasingly, and afterwards pile themselves on one
bicycle and carry the British flag several times
round the stage. Priscilla Verne is a large girl in
bright pink with a rather hard voice, and too
much elbow-work in her gesturing. There is as
much energy in her elbow as would suffice for the
polishing of a drawing-room full of furniture.
Irene Franklin, who reappeared for a short fare-
well season, carries herself through by her hands
as usual, plus the simple girly-girly manner which
one rarely sees nowadays in maidens under forty.
The holiday audience, which was mostly of the
sort that brings a large and heavy odour of gum-
leaves with it, took most kindly to the man of
Skates, probably because he comes in at first with
a noise as of a mob of cattle, and thus brings to
the rural intelligence sweet thoughts of home.
* * * *
That slippery customer, Rosie Aquinaldo,
still contorts nightly at Fitzgerald’s Circus.
There are also a good many new items, but
the people who travel through the air, merely
making a casual stay on the anatomy of other
people whose hold on existence is no less pre-
carious, continue to be the great feature of the
show. The four or five youths who make pyra-
mids and ornamental designs of themselves are
also worthy of commendation, and when an enter-
prising individual makes unto himself a citadel of
chairs, that homely and everyday article of furni-
ture is seen in a newer and nobler light which can
never wholly fade away.
* * * *
A new pianist,e, who made her debut
modestly, by invitation ticket, last week, is Miss
Clare Walford, a Sydney girl whose musical
education has been furthered by Signor de Beau-
puis. The programme was classical, and gave the
young musician broad scope. She played the
Appassionata Sonata with intelligence, and gave a
brilliant interpretation of Grieg’s A Minor Con-
certo, with Sykes at the other piano. For a
debutante suffering from nervousness the recital
was highly promising, and one can safely express
the desire to hear Miss Walford again a year
hence.
* * * *
At Sydney Lyceum, on Friday evening,
sth inst., the City Dramatic Society will play
“ The Vagabond ” in aid of the finances of Prince
Alfred Hospital. The Chief Justice will act as
patron; George Reid and Toby Barton will sup-
port him ; and the public is requested to roll up
en masse and swell the funds devoted to the relief
of the sick poor.
* * * *
The “ Crane-Power ” season at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) improved its reputation con-
siderably last*week. “ Tess ” had an innings for
three nights, three damp nights when the world
didn’t take much interest in theatrical revivals,
and the difference between the new treatment of
“Tess” and the rough handling it got from the
Nance O’Neil crowd was thankfully admitted by
the few who could speak from comparison. In all
principal parts the C.-P. performance showed an
improvement on the previous co.’s attempt. Also
the incidental hayseeds and dairymaids were
either better than their predecessors, or fully as
good. Miss Crane gave the name character
its proper place in the drama. She was almost
convincing at two or three points, notably
in her confession and her fairly pathetic dis-
composure after she had knifed the man who paid
the rent. Tyrone Power, as the doomed person
aforesaid, was admirable. Ollv Deering and Miss
Julia Merton, Cecil Ward, Miss Musgrove in
trousers, Miss Wheeler (as compared with Miss
Ricca Allen) and Miss Gleeson disguised as a 10-
year-old infant—all of them put something of
humanly natural effect into the show, which was
just what the other company of play-actors failed
to do.
* * * *
First night of the “ Tess ” revival at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) two actresses popped up as the
thirsty Marian, it seems. Miss Wheeler wore the
dissipated hat of the nut-brown milkmaid in the
first act, but was too ill to continue acting, so Miss
Gleeson came on for the more important scenes.
Little things like that pass unnoticed by some
“ great ” newspapers. The Argus criticism next
morning gave great praise to Miss Wheeler for
“rejecting the obvious temptation to over-color
the part,” as though there had been only one lady
concerned in the performance. Next night the
Marian who went right through the piece was
Miss Lilian Wheeler, the present scribe was told,
though he couldn’t recognise her somewhat weak-
ened voice as that of the brilliant novice whom
George Rignold brought to the fore at Melb.
Royal in ’97.
* * * *
Melbourne has met four different Marians
in the course of a dozen nights, or so, of the
“Tess’’drama. Miss Linda Raymond took the
part on the premiere of the Nance O’Neil pro-
duction, and was then replaced by Miss Ricca
Allen, concerning which unfortunate alteration a
very pretty little tale is told.
* * * *
“The Only Way” followed “Tess,” on
Saturday. There is much bustle, self-sacrifice,
berlud, brandy bottle, historical interest, and
entertaining uproar in the drama based on “ Tale
of Two Cities.” It is not a very fine play, but it
keeps, one’s thoughts moving, and although the
four' intervals are long and the prologue brief
and discouraging, Melbourne will probably
wonder why “ The Only Way ” was not let loose
three weeks earlier. On the other hand its pro-
duction seems calculated to bruise the soul of
Fitzgibbon and other people who are
preparing odes to the coming Jook. “The
Only Way” is disrespectful to old aristo-
cracy. The dialogue includes some painful
references to noble heads stuck atop of long poles;
moreover the British monarch, who was being
tied to the bedpost by his fat sons in 1795 or
thereabouts, is made a matter for plebeian scorn.
You can’t hear the dukes and marquises sneezing
into the guillotine basket, but you can see them
walk from the Paris Conciergerie to the place
where the gory machine is understood to be, and
you hear the roars of the Republicans provided by
the management every time another marquis loses
his presence of mind. On the whole, the drama
at Her Majesty’s is sadly disloyal.
* » * *
Tyrone Power’s picture of Sydney Carton,
the five-bottle man, is a boisterous success. Not
the Carton whom Dickens drew; more like an
Irish patriot with a variable liver and an inter-
mittent headache, but that doesn’t matter. The
drama was not drawn by Dickens. Carton on the
boards at Her Maj.’s is a grim humorist, and
Tyrone Power fills the bill. Miss Crane, as
Nanette, looks handsome, and flirts with her
Darnay on American lines. The character is
mostly golden hair. Miss Crane wears golden
hair of the desired shade in sufficient profusion.
Cyril Keightley is a well-conducted Darnay, after
figuring as an unsubstantial Marquis in the pro-
logue ; and Cecil Ward is a couple of Defarges,
with strange lapses into French accent. At one
time or another, he misses his opportunity for
strong acting. In fact, he is a very much over-
weighted Cecil Ward, but he may be expected to
buck up during the week. Miss Musgrove, who
should never waste her time again in comic opera,
is a dear little Mimi ; and many other things, not
forgetting the scenery, are very well done.
** * *
The announcement that Widow Sheridan
is about to produce a new version of “East
Lynne ” sounds awful enough, but is not to be
taken at its worst. The O’Sheridan has not, as far
as The Bulletin knows, engaged himself to play
the character of Lady Isabel with a brogue.
Neither will he fade away ’midst limelight effects
under the heading of Little Johnnie. Somebody’s
new version of “East Lynne” is presumably the
same old tale of woe in a brighter and drier setting
than Melbourne has known hitherto. Anyway,
the O’Sheridan is in it, and Gracie Whiteford, and
the company will be “ powerfully augmented ” for
the occasion. “New East Lynne” happens at
Melbourne Royal on Saturday next. Meanwhile,
the relict of Murphy, deceased, continues to humble
the family pride of her daughter’s mother-in-law
in the dust, and business is quite satisfactory.
♦ • % *
Sheridan's advt. recalls the case of the
moist motherly female who sat sorrowing for
Madame Vine and defunct Willie in the amphi-
theatre of the London “Brit.” She sobbed so
persistently that two young men in the next row
of seats began to exchange scornful remarks in an
audible tone. At last one of them protested that
he couldn’t see nothink to cry at in “East Lynne,”
and his friend said no more couldn’t he. The
large, tearful lady turned round, with her
handkerchief to the eye which wasn’t glaring at
those blasphemers, and snivelled indignantly—
“ Not see anything to cry at in ‘ East Lynne ’ —
O-o-o-h ! you ’ard ’earted blankers ! ”
Billee Barlow, in a series of four gorgeous
costumes, was added to the Bijou bill on Satur-
day. Billee is a few degrees plumper than the
Dick Whittington and Little Jack Sheppard of
formerly, but her admirers, baldheaded and other-
wise, will find no fault with the vision on that
-account. They get more Billee for their money.
The songs she warbled rather nervously on Satur-
day were harbingers of summer, so to speak—
warm songs, that set the house thinking of blue
skies, Sunday-school picnics, and parson Glad-
stone’s evils of dancing. Songs intended to reach
the heart of the married man who has left his wife
at home. The sentiments as a rule are neatly
turned and gently expressed. When the Billee
boils she is ingenuously discreet.
** # *
George Musgrove’s grand opera season at
the Princess’s is in the throes of rehearsal. The
advt. thus far promises seven operas in six weeks,
commencing with “ Trcvatore also a chorus of 50
voices and 40 instrumentalists in the “new pitch ”
orcl estra. And the interesting question as to
scale of prices is to be settled by a further advt. in
to-day’s (Thursday’s) papers.
** * *
Rev. Haskett Smith, the chubby, enter-
taining divine who has ofttimes bought his boot-
laces at Nazareth, scratched his head on the
summit of Mount Ararat, and warmed his toes at
the old original Burning Bush, will open a lecture
season at the Athenaeum Hall next Saturday
(Oth). Rev. Haskett has spent a month in
Paris Exhibition since the last time he paddled in
the Red Sea, and his first address will deal with
that modern subject. Afterwards he will get
along to Moses and the Prophets, no doubt.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Revenue returns for September, 1900 :—■
Revenue for Increase as com-
September, 1900. *99.
Westralia .. .. £275,246 .. £33,459
New South Wales .. 747,359 8,107
Tasmania .. 81,980 .. 2,859
Decrease as com-
pared with
September, 1899.
Victoria .. .. £583,755 .. £1,015
Queensland .. .. 562,253 .. 16,851
For the financial year so far as it has progressed (three
months have elapsed in Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria,
S.A., and Westralia, and nine months in Tasmania) re-
sults are as follows. As usual, no returns are available
from Maoriland, though why the revenue returns from
that province can't arrive as punctually as those from
Westralia, Tasmania, and even London, passes compre-
hension :
Increase as com-
Revenue to pared with
September, period to
1900. September, 1899.
Westralia (3 months) .. £721,681 £72,878
Tasmania (9 months) .. 767,587 66,595
Victoria (3 months) .. 1,772,239 41,515
N.S. Wales f „ ) .. 2,263,791 19,603
S.A. ( „ ) .. 626,082 11,731
Decrease as com-
pared with
period to
September, 1899.
Queensland (3 months) .. 1,210.298 43,033
As regards New South Wales, unfortunately,
the increase is not so real as it looks. During the quarter
the Treasury received £20,690 as rents from the resumed
properties along Darling Harbor, which is a perfectly new
source of income, but all this has to go out again in pay-
ing interest on the purchase money. Interest so far is at
the rate of 6 per cent, on the purchase money, whatever
that may be, and as it is to be fixed by the Supreme
Court it is tolerably certain that it will be so high that 6
per cent, interest on it will absorb all the receipts up till
now. It is an open question if these rents should not
have been put to a suspense account till the matter was
settled, seeing that they are practically moneys held in
trust for the late owners of the. property. Leaving them
out, and comparing only this year’s revenue with the re-
venue from same sources last year, N.S.W. gets down
among the financially-declining States, and things are as
follows:
Increase as eom-
Revenue to pared with
September, period to
1900. September, 1899.
Westralia (3 months) .. £721,681 £72,878
Tasmania (9 „ ) .. 767,587 66,595
Vietoria (3 „ ) .. 1,772,239 41,515
S.A. (3 „ ) ~ 626,082 11,731
Decrease as com-
pared with
period to
„ _ _ , September, 1899.
N.S. Wales (3 months) .. £2,243,101 £1,087
Queensland (3 „ ) .. 1,210,298 43,033
* * • *
Taking the figures as returned by the Treasury,
however, the various increases, so far as the financial
year has gone, when reduced to a common standard, are
at the following rate per inhabitant per annum, taking
the population as at end of 1899
Increase of revenue per inhabitant per annum.
Westralia £1 14 1
Tasmania .. .. *. 09 9
Victoria 0 2 10
South Australia 0 2 7
New South Wales ... .. 0 12
Queensland .. .. .. Decrease.


pmAsfg
wtr
w $
-&
&
■+*
“DRINK IT
. FORM BALM
ftNDYou Derive
,
ORINKIT
njr Pleasure
Ind You Acquire;
Health
THt
GREAT
AUSTRAIIdH
NATURAL
MINERAL
.WATER.
zetz-spa Proprietary limited^
SYDNEYJ
wpe a=p tfcbaeeetfi
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAVY AND WAR OFFICE.
nr
u THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros, & Co., Ltd,, Liverpool. Agents; M, Ratty & Co., Sydney.
The Money Market Review, London, 21st
July, 1900 : “ The Colonial Mutual has now been in exist-
ence for well over a quarter of a century, and has made a
well deserved reputation throughout the Empire.*
* * * *
The North Silver Mine, at Broken Hill, has
just adopted the Wilfley concentrating tables in connec-
tion with their plant. The sole manufacturers, the
Austral Otis Engineering Co., Ltd., South Melbourne,
inform us that the Wilfley Tables have now been adopted
by all the Broken Hill co.’s except the British and Block
10 co.’s. The table is rapidly proving itself the most
efficient and easily-managed concentrator yet produced.*
* * * *
The quantity of sulphides now treated per week
at the “ Barrier” compares favorably with the output of
any silver-lead mining field in the world. The difficulty
in treatment of sulphides is being successfully grappled
with mainly owing to improved systems of mechanical
“ dressing.” In this the Luhrig Vanner plays a very
prominent part. A large number of these machines are
now in use there, and fresh orders are still being given to
the agents, Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne. The
South Mine people are remodelling their mill on up-to-
date lines, and will install twelve or more Luhrig Vannera
of the 1900 pattern. The British Co. is also erecting more
of these superior machines.*
* * * •
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * m *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
'*• * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “ Option ’*
Melbourne.* *
* * * m
. Mr ; Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andallsortsof iron-work.*
• * * *
A medical report, called for in India pro-
nounces cyanide dust made on the goldfields to be highly
dangerous; and something is to be done. s J
* * * *
Bad accounts come from the big rush at Cape
Nome, Alaska. Crime and disease (including smallpox
w, tyP A h i° ld) rel Pi ; vaffes . are low living enormously
v A , s ,° ma law reigns and there nave oeen flgnts
between the military and miners.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
_ Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax/Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100^
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles
MANGANESE 8170
Ny. Mark Wald,
178 VVilliam-streefc,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st.,Sydney; 68 Currie-st. , Adel. ; S 7 Eagle-street
Bnsb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NZ ■
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 ner rant-
pure), Blasting Powder, Caustic Soda P
Requisites, Candles, eto! 00a ’ M,nin «
Queensland’s decrease, as compared with last year, is
only what might have been expected. Last year’s
revenue was enormously swollen by death duties
(mostly in the Tyson estate), and no such boom can
be expected two years in succession. On the whole,
things are not looking well with more than one pro-
vince. Westralia’s expenditure increased so enormously
in July (no later returns are available) as to leave
a shortage on that one month of nearly £34,000. Queens-
land always has an immense surplus in the early part of
the year till the bills for interest on public debt come in,
but its surplus is about £183,000 less than at this time
last year, and if this sort of thing goes on a deficit is
inevitable. Up to time of writing, S.A. and N.S.W.’s
expenditure returns were not to hand, and Victoria and
Tasmania always keep these dark till the end of the year.
* * * *
One what possible pretence of honesty does the
N.S.W. Government retain the money of those civil ser-
vants who have withdrawn, by the Government’s special
permission, from the Superannuation Fund ? It admits
that these persons should receive back the amounts they
paid to the fund, so it promises to return the cash when
they leave the service, with 3 per cent, simple interest.
Now, there is a great deal of difference between simple and
compound interest. If a civil servant had £lOO in the
fund when he ceased contributing, and he remains in the
service for 30 years thereafter, he will draw, at the end of
that time, £l9O. But if the State paid him his interest
yearly, as it has to do with its bondholders, and he re-in-
vested the money at 3 per cent., the total in 30 years
would be about £242. The N.S.W. Government not only
takes a compulsory loan of these people’s money at very
low interest, but it swindles them out of a great part of
the interest.. Also, it offers them none too good security
for the principal. It is all very well to say that they have
a claim on the Superannuation Fund for the money, but
at the present rate of progress there will be no Superan-
nuation Fund in a very few years. It is ( a mean, shabby,
pawnbroking arrangement all round, and may be best de-
fined as fraud by Act of Parliament.
* * * *
For the last complete financial year the railway
systems of Australasia show the following interest earned
on capita]—subject to correction when the Auditor-
General gets his eye on the accounts
Westralia, about .. £5 18 11 per cent.
South Australia ... .. 318 2
New South Wales „ .. 312 7 ”
Maoriland .. „ .. 38 5 ”
Victoria .. .. 3 4 8 ”
Queensland ... .. 2 4 8
Tasmania 12 2 ”
Victoria’s railway deficit for year ended 30th June, 1900,
was £192,587, as compared with £294,802 for previous
year. It is the smallest deficit since 1890. N.S.W.’s
deficit is probably, on the Auditor-General’s method of
"co? oi a^10n ’ a k_ ou t £92,000. Tasmania’s deficit was
X5u7 ,870.
* * * *
It is proposed to make the coupon business a
State monopoly in Maoriland, so that, if there is anv real
demand for the foolish and fleeting bit of paper, the pub-
lic can get it on honest principles, without supporting a
crowd of useless middlemen in the process. Coupons
will be sold by the post-office at the rate of Is. per dozen.
They will be redeemed in cash at Is. per dozen. The re-
ceiver won’t be required to accumulate 240 or so by a
process spread over many months before he can get his
reward in the shape of an egg-spoon or the like. This is
the process by which the coupon fiend makes prob-
ably 10s. or 15s. profit in every £, for the average
individual never labors up to the 240 coupons; but
the M.L. postal department proposes to run the industry
on more liberal principles. It will redeem as few as
a ij Z ? n ’ ff' ve f° r them. The coupons will be
sold to anyone ; there is nothing in the scheme about
undertaking to sell only to certain traders in each district
so that they may scoop in the trade and injure their
rivals. It is reckoned that, even when coupons are re-
deemed by the shillingworth, there will be one or two
a B^.l n ev . er » v hundred, and that will pay the expenses
As there is to be no crowd of useless middlemen living on
the game, it is obvious that the Post Office can give twice
as good value as the coupon co. did. and till the silly
craze dies out, it is as well that the State should keep it
on an honest basis.
* * * *
Further apropos of the S.M. Herald and that
financial luminary, Austin Chapman, M.L.A., both of
whom were shocked at the idea of floating N.S.W. loans
locally lest it should absorb money that is required for
“private enterprise” : The Bulletin has already pointed
out that, so long as money raised locally, either as loans
or revenue, is also spent locally, it* doesn’t reduce
the stock of coin available for private enterprise
and, by way of a simple illustration, the NS w’
revenue is a case in point. For many years past the stock
of coin in N.S.W., as shown by the banking returns, has
averaged about £6,000,000. Probably the stock in the
banks and in private hands has never exceeded £8,000,000.
And out of this the Government, every year,’ooll’ects
about £10,000,000 as revenue—it collects, every year
more than every blessed copper there is in the country—
and yet the money remains and is available for private
enterprise just the same. When the State can collect
£10,000,000 a year out of a cash capital of £B,OOO 000
in all, and yet not reduce the stock or destroy the
prospects of private enterprise, the chances are that it
could also borrow £2,000,000 out of the £8,000,000 with-
out doing any damage. When £10,000,000 a year comes
out of £8,000,000, it is just possible that
112,000,000 would come out of it also without breaking
things. It is only when vast sums in interest have to be
sent abroad to pay interest on foreign loans or to pay for
foreign goods thatthe stock of cash diminishes. The humor
of the situation lies in the fact that the Herald and the
other advocates of foreign as against local borrowing evi-
dently thought that the raising of perhaps £2,000,000 a
year m local loans, which is no more a drain than if it was
raised as revenue, was something new and dangerous,
and liable to explode at any moment. The fact that if
the raising of money locally, and the spending of’it
locally, would exhaust the local supply, then the raising
of £10,000,000 a year revenue would have left N.S.W
penniless and broken and insolvent in a single year was
evidently quite beyond them. *
* * * •
The great Australian hardware firm of M'Lean
Brothers and Rigg shows slightly better results this year,
though the situation is still bad enough in all conscience,
lhe last nine balance-sheets may be condensed thus :
Trading Profit.
30th June, 1892 .. £11,487
Tiding Loss. Loss by Depreciation, &c
» 1893 .. £15,367
•* 1894 .. 16,368 £133,819
>, 1895 .. 2,650
Trading Profit.
>, 1896 .. 136
Trading Loss.
„ 1897 .. 1,862
.» 1898 .. 34,197 £314,132
Trading Profit.
»» 1899 .. 3,587
». 1900 .. 9,856
Loss.. .. £45,378 Loss.. £447,951
At June, 1891, M'Lean Brothers and Rigg had £250,000
capital, and an obscure reserve of £4067. It lost in nine
years 1493,329—its old reserve and £489,262 additional. It
wrote £150,000 off capital by way of partly covering the
Kiss, so now it professes to have a paid-up capital of
£lOO,OOO, and against that an accumulated loss of
£339,262, or £239,262 more than its capital. So the
balance-sheet may be put like this.
Liabilities.
Capital .. Wholly lost
Debentures.. ..£240,480
Drafts current .. 41,093
Sundry creditors .. 19,340
Past-due bills .. 195,286
Bank overdraft .. 211,878
Mortgage .. .. 7,000
£715,077
Assbts.
Stock .. ..£194,620
Bills 24,221
Sundry debtors .. 88,441
Properties (at book
value) .. .. 100,426
Shares &c 68,107
Shortage .. .. 239,262
£715.077
By its own showing this very remarkable concern is only
good for about 13s. 4d. in the £ on its liabilities, even
after writing off the whole of its capital. Still the visible
shortage is £13,000 less than it was two years ago ; the
overdraft has been reduced in the last 12 months by
£lO,OOO and the mortgage by £1,333; and if the creditors
have patience enough and profits continue even this very
shocking ironmongery may recover. There are hopes for
the very worst ironmongery so long as it can make
profits.
* * • •
The Victorian Government has appointed a
committee to “ inquire into the system of life assurance
on the assessment principle.” It has been moved thereto,
no doubt, by the advent in Australia of the objec-
tionable Canadian Independent Order of Foresters concern
—the one which spends the policy-holders’ money in two-
column advertisements about the personal appearance of
the huge Red Indian who manages the concern. If the
committee gets hold of a plentiful stock of information
about the working of the awful assessment principle it
should produce a report that will lead the Vic. Govern-
ment to shut down on assessment assurance with a
crash.
• * • *
South Australian Gas Co., Adelaide:—
Profit. Dividend.
June, 1894 .. £32,042 13 per cent. = £32,500
„ 1895 .. 31,233 12 „ = 30,000
„ 1896 .. 34,429 12 „ = 30,000
„ 1897 .. 31,964 1 2 „ = 30,000
„ 1898 .. 32,362 12 „ = 30,000
„ 1899 .. 33,636 12 „ = 30,000
„ 1900 .. 33,497 12 „ = 30,000
£229,163 £212,500
Reserves in 1893 were £69,024, and the surplus of £16,663
shown above has since raised them to £85,687.
* • • •
The London Bank of Australia announces that
it is going to prepay one-sixth of its remaining recon-
structed deposits, thus reducing the balance outstanding
from £1,913,722 to £1,594,769. This will make 70 per
cent, repaid out of the deposits reconstructed in 1893.
* * * *
There is still money to be made out of beer in
Maoriland, however coldly the shadow of the Cold Tea
Brigade hangs over the land. The Christchurch brewery
firm of Ward and Co., Limited, showed a profit for the
year ended 30th June, 1900, of £ll,6Bo—equal to rather
over 29 per cent, on the paid-up capital of £40,075. Share-
holders get 10 per cent. (£4007), and the other £7673
raises the reserves to £30,698 (reserve-fund, £30,000, and
undivided profit, £698).
* « • •
S. Australian railway figures for the year to
June 30th are, on the whole, the best for years. Net
revenue was 3'9l per cent, of capital, as against 2 - 98 per
cent in ’97-8, which latter, however, was a, bad year in
connection with Barrier trade. Take away that trade at
any time, and the S.A. railway returns would become
small potatoes. Of 1,599,048 tons carried last year,
Broken Hill was responsible for 647,069 tons ; and that
does not include much indirect trade to Port Pirie, Port
Adelaide, and other smelting and shipping stations. Thus
Cockburn, the terminal station on the S.A.-N.S.W.
border, through which all B.H. trade passes, and to which
it is of course credited in the S.A. records, has bigger
figures even than Adelaide. The latter forwarded for the
year 51,534 tons, and received 201,166 tons; Cockburn
forwarded 466,156 tons and received 180,998 tons. Down
to date the province has spent on its railways £12,593,865
from loans and £476,222 from general revenue ; of this
amount the line built from Petersburg to the N.S.W.
border for Broken Hill trade—it is 144} miles long—has
cost for construction and equipment, £680,652. The
average cost of laying and equipping the narrow-gauge
lines in the north has been £5642 a mile ; of the Adelaide-
Melb. line (broad-gauge) it was £9728.
* * * *
N. S. W. Chief Mines Inspector Slee apparently
thinks no groat things of Wertago copper-field. The ore
must be reduced in bulk before it can be profitably sent
so far to market; there is no water and no rainfall for
concentration; and small smelting-plants are seldom a
success.
* * # *
The diamond-drilling in the little-explored
northern half of the British B.H. has so far given disap-
pointing results—disappointing, anyway, to those who
expected something payable there.
* * * *
N.S.W. Mines-Minister Fegan, who went to
Broken Hill lately in the interests of the two or three
mining Bills now before Parlt., told the miners and
managers—he met both—that at present the mining in-
spectors had little or no power, and that most of what
they did they did by “ bluff ”or “ moral suasion.” Mr.
Fegan, who (like most others) had been startled by the
frequency of mine accidents at the Hill, was surprised at
the readiness with which the managers agreed to most of
the provisions of his Bill for preventing accidents. And
the men themselves seemed to see the inevitableness of a
large number of accidents, judging by the fact that their
spokesmen pleaded harder for the passing of the Accident
Relief Fund Bill than for the Mines’ Inspection Bill.
* * * ,
At the Australian Broken Hill Consols a shot
put in the other afternoon “ brought down nearly 10 cwt.
pure silver, worth between £BOO and £lOOO. The stuff
broken comprises slugs running to 1501 b. weight, and the
face left behind simply bristles with rich ore. Fahlerz is
present, but not in great quantity. The ore body now
exposed is 7ft. by 6in., and this is almost pure silver. Mr
Sweet, general manager of the mine, declares that the
prospects have never been so brilliant before during his
term of management. The present development is far
beyond anything since the great bonanza of 1891.”
* * * *
Sulphide Corporation. Stated that it has
managed at last to dispose of the American patent right
of the Ashcroft Sulphide process. This was a lamentable
failure in Australia, and ’twill be remarkable if it proves
a prodigious success in U.S.
* * • *
Grassy Gully, N.S.W.—Battery started at last
and as usual a big return anticipated. So much has been
said about this show that the return, no matter how good,
is likely to be disappointing. The tailings are said to be
assaying 4dwts., concentrates 7ozs., so it would be some-
what strange if the ore did not average an ounce.
* * * *
New Eldorado, N.S.W. First consignment of
ore to Dapto returned sJoz. of gold, Boz. 14dwts. silver
per ton. Size of consignment indicates that there isn’t
much of this class of ore in sight. Reconstruction
scheme passed and confirmed, and shareholders are told
they can take up one contributing share for every original
£ share. Doubtful whether they will. This mine should
be amalgamated with the Mt. Drysdale. To work them
separately is absurd. Drysdale shares fell a few shillings
last week.
f N.S.W. mine.—Directors agree that
£5OOO is neededl to extend the drive to where the wash
was pricked and to provide a battery. Funds exhausted.
•Not stated how long or how much Govt, has helped this
concern. Much was said of it three years ago, and it
seems to be as far off gold as ever. It is by no means
certain that there is a payable lead to reach.
'v! ew Hope, N.S.W.—The Queen-street,
Melt)., crowd who had an option on this well-known cop-
per mine at something like £1 a share has abandoned it.
Ihe tnbutors have concluded their agreement, and the
original co. is now actively working on its own. Would
be a big mine with a railway, wifi always be a little one
without.
• • • •
Westralian Market. Great Boulders have,
during the last ten days, been up to 325. and down to 31s.
an unusual jirop for this mine. A shilling rise or fall
represents £87,500 on total value. Boulder Main Reefs,
on the strength of a remarkable development, nearly
doubled in value in a fortnight, reaching 555. and drop-
ping back at time of writing to 51s. New telluride ore
shoot proved to be 30ft. in length—not nearly enough to
warrant this big rise.
• • • •
Associateds have been up to 835.—£2,075,000 for
this fishy, pig-rooted concern. True, it had a develop-
ment. It passed through a large ore-body showing pay
values, but it has not had time to drive on it—in fact it
hasn’t commenced. The moment the development took
place there was a tremendous rush of “ bears ” and
“bulls” to the wire cabling London to “cover” and
to buy, with a result that in a few days half-a-
million was added to the market value of the
mine. What a lovely concern for London brokers 1
In another few days they were back to £3 10s.—only a
drop of nearly £300,000 —and now the men who covered
at the big prices, and those who bought at ditto, are
weeping, wailing, and gnashing their teeth. Associated
Northerns, 63s.—standing at evens during the last week.
First consignment of ore, several hundred tons, going to
Freemantle—believed to average over lOoz. per ton. An-
other good development said to have taken place in sink-
ing the main shaft, but, all things considered, doubtful if
the mine is opened sufficiently to justify a market valua-
tion of a million sterling.
* * * »
Lake View Consols have been over £l4, and are
down to £l3 14s. Reason to believe that the manage-
ment will make a splash with the first returns from the
Diehl process. Writer would not be surprised if the
returns were put up to 12,000 and 15,0000 z. a month, but
for how many months is another question. At present
hope seems to be centred in remnants of the rich shute
left in the upper levels.
• • * •
Ivanhoea have been up to £ll and down to
£lO 10s. —a fair variation when compared with the Band
and Loch’s fall, but nothing when compared to its mining
neighbors. Perseverance scrip has been up to £l2 25.,
and back now to £ll 12s. Will make its first clear
month’s sulphide clean-up in a few days, and considering
the capacity of the plant it should be at least 10,0000 z.—
probably more.
* * • •
Hannan’s Brownhill, £5 2s. 6d. sellers. What a
falling off is this 1 Only a month or so ago the British
Australasian, London Truth, the Financial News, and
other Westralian newspaper-boomers predicted a substan-
tial rise in these shares, and they were then at £8 12s. 6d.,
and the usual lying reasons were given. The sulphide
zone was opening up splendidly, 96 per cent, extraction
being got per Diehl process; Hannan’s Star plant had
been leased to treat sulphide. One tipster “would not
be surprised to see them at £lO or £l2 within a few
weeks.” Writer wonders if he is surprised to see them
down to £5 in the same time. A drop of £3 10s. a share,
representing a depreciation of over three-quarters of a
million, in a month, instead of an appreciation of that
amount, should make even a London mining tipster
ashamed of himself. But it won’t.
* * • •
Kalgurlis, now at £5 155., have been over £6.
A record yield promised for this month. All very well,
but isn’t it time shareholders heard something about a
dividend? To be crushing over six months with big
yields without one little div. is an anomaly. South Kal-
gurlis, 82s. Still slowly coming down. Writer thought
they were too high six months ago. Oroyas, 31s. A
price unwarranted for any mine working so iong without
a dividend. Chaffers, 15s. A big rise, for it must not be
forgotten that there are 450,000 shares in Chaffers. The
rise is probably on account of the development in its side-
on neighbour, Boulder Main Reef. Probably has got as
much show of striking this run of gold as it has of getting
a continuation of the Horseshoe runs, which seem to
peter-out several hundred feet before the Chaffers’ boun-
dary is reached.
* • • »
The Cosmopolitan, Niagara, W.A., now in the
hands of J. Bull, seems to be an excellent show. It has
20 stamps at work, and its new 30-head mill is almost
ready. In August it crushed 1348 tons for 1250 oz.—an
average of, say, 18dwt. 13gr.; value of tailings, Bdwt. 7gr.
per ton. Total expenditure, £2831; revenue, 12500 z.
smelted gold at £3 17s. 7£d. per 0z.—£4850 13s. Total
yield from mine to date Stone treated, 20,604 tons ;
yield, 19,2030 z. 2dwt. 6gr. ; average, 18dwt. 15gr. Gross
value of gold product to date, £74,743 17s. 6d. Tailings
on hand for future treatment—lB,42s tons, worth sdwt.
per ton (extraction) ; gross value, £17,964 7s. 6d. Total
gross value of ore extracted to date, £92,708 ss. And
there is plenty of water and timber at hand.
* * * *
“Dicksie”: Surely the August doings of the
Sons of Gwaha gold mine (W.A.) plant, beats Bayley’s
United record. Total output for month, 5119 tons. Old
mill (10 head 7501 b. stamps), 1158 tons for 7910 z. New
mill (30 head), 3971 tons for 29780 z. Tailings, 3600 tons
for 1140 oz. ; concentrates, 408 tons for 5690 z. Total gold
produced, 54780 z. This should about constitute a record.
Hand-fed, one man to each 15 head in new mill; also one
man to other 10 head in old mill—and only one stem
broken in month’s run.
• * •
Northern Territories, better known in London
as “Northern Terrors.” Authorised capital, £300,000, in
same number of shares. Floated by Bottomley and so
puffed in his “Joint Stock Circular” that 125,000 shares
were got rid of in one year. At a meeting of shareholders
Bottomley thus indicated the great wealth of the pro-
perty : “In one of your properties alone—l refer to the
Eureka group of mines—you have upwards of £3,000,000
in value of ore in sight and ready to be crushed. That is
a statement of fact which is open not only to the direc-
tors to check, but to all the world, so far as they are per-
mitted to see what is there. My information is that in
the Howley group you have over £2,000,000 of ore in sight
and I have made other statements of an equally startling
character which I can understand the reluctance of the
directors to publish and talk about. I have done very
little else during the last few weeks than buy Northern
Territories Goldfields shares.” They were then standing
at £4 10s. and were described by Bottomley himself as
“absolutely the cheapest thing'in the mining market.”
One mining man was so amazed at this foreshadowed
richness that he wrote: “Well, my dear Bottomley, I
have read every paper you have given me, I have made
every enquiry at every quarter I could, and the con-
clusion I have come to is this—that either you have the
biggest thing yet struck in connection with gold mining
or the damnedest swindle ever perpetrated on the British
public.” Since that time the working capital of the co.
became exhausted, it was wound up and reconstructed
under the same name, and now N.T. shares are selling in
London—buyers, 2s. 6d. ; sellers, ss.—only a drop of
£4 7s. 6d. But London still has its Bottomley.
For nearly a quarter-century the (freehold)
owners Burra mine (S.A,), who have no labor covenants
to perform, have kept the once-great property idle.
There were not many shareholders in the Co., and most
of them were rich and old, they didn’t want to be
bothered to do any prospecting, and they still less wanted
to risk the money necessary for plant. Scores of men
who worked in the mine had faith in it still ; and as some
of the older shareholders died and their holdings
Sassed to younger men, the Co. has felt more disposed to
o something. But it isn’t prepared yet to risk anything
of its own ; what it is now inclined to do is to let a tribute
co. come in. And a tribute co. is ready when the other
speaks the word.
* * * *
Pearl shell, next to gold and cattle the most
important product of the Northern Territory, has bene-
fited by the general run-up of prices. In ’9B, the 193 tons
obtained average,d £93 3s. 6d. ; last year’s 211 £ tons aver-
aged £i4o. Japs and Manila men do most of the diving,
and are supposed to go halves with the boat-owner ; but,
says the Government officer in his last report, “ owners
see but few of the shells.” Illicit pearl-trading is one of
the profitable industries of Port Darwin.
* * * m
Band and Loch, Vic. A fall in value of £70,000
in these shares in two or three days furnished the mining
sensation of Victoria, and all sorts of remedies are sug-
gested against a recurrence in this or any other mine in
the State. Not the slightest attention is given to the
fact that at Hannan’s the mines frequently fall more than
that in a day, and in several instances recently falls and
rises representing ten times the amount have taken place
in the week. But there they have the London market to
play with, which is a horse of quite another color.
* * * *
It is so far inexplicable that while the total
Otago (M.L.) dredging-returns for the nine months of
1909 are 47,3330 z. ; the yield for Sept, as cabled is only
8390 z.
* » * *
North Mt. Lyell.—Debenture-holders failing to
take option of converting bonds into shares, the £35,000
worth are to be issued at a premium of £2 per share.
Figures in report made up to 13th June last show value
of total output of ore to date of report, £140,000. Paid
to Mt. Lyell Co. in smelting and other charges,
£60,000 ; gross earnings (13/6/’00), £BO,OOO. Value of ore
sent to smelters, £l3 per ton, of which Mt. Lyell Co. re-
ceived £5. £lOO,OOO of shares still unissued and will be re-
quired before all of the construction works in hand are
completed. Mine looking remarkably well in a lower
tunnel, but extent of ore-body not proved. No getting
away from the fact that should this mine find an ore-
body of average richness and only one-tenth of the
size of the famous pyritic body of the parent mine,
it would have a much greater value than the big mine.
The smelting returns for Mt. Lyell continue to fall—very
little each month, but they are now so low that any
serious drop in the price of copper would mean that the
mine by itself could not be worked at a profit. But with
copper remaining anywhere in the region of its present
price, with its magnificent smelting base, unequalled in
any other part of the field, its extensive and well-equipped
smelting plant and railway, it would probably remain a
paying proposition if copper went out of its ore alto-
gether, and that is not likely.
• * » *
Q. mining notes. —The Towers and Gympie still
flat. Raub doing well; latest crushing, 4200 tons, 26230z5.
Two old-timers, Mt. Shamrock and Mt. Deddick, in Bur-
nett district are trying their luck again. Ravenswood
still brisk ; Wilson’s show got 16900z5. from 220 tons. Mt.
Success, Charters Towers field, floated by J. Bull. Some
figures : Q.S. Gt. Eastern, Gympie, 1166 tons, 16250z5., Is.
div. ; Towers : B. and St. George, 1549 tons, 16540z5., Is.
div. ; Brilliant Extended, 462 tons, 2900zs. —feeble;
Kelly’s, 680 tons, 7300z5., 6d. div. ; Band of Hope, 600
tons, 6260z5. ; Brilliant, 3d. div. ; Brilliant Central, 6d.
div. ; Worcesters, 437 tons, 7310z5.
( Continued on page 35.)


,11
a
HW
COMPLETE OUTFITS.^*-
AN ORIENT BOOT^
16/6
AN ORIENT SUIT^
63/-
TO MEASURE
ALL GLASSES OF GARMENTS
.. IN THE ..
“Orient To measure” Slothing
.. AT ..
PRICES^
Write for Particulars and Patterns.
PAVIP JQNCS & COMPANY,
<j?orge 8< Barrack Sts., Sydney.
WA
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
_ x _ Invigorating in Hot CM mates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
af
SOCIETY
Lord Tennyson, Governor of S.A., has
rather shocked those friends who believed in his
prudence by making a warm speech at the local
teachers’ conference in favor of Bible-reading in
State schools. Can it be that, after all, it was
the discreet Wallington who taught him to refrain
from injudicious entrance into the controversial
arena ?
* » * *
Premier Lyne was twitted with the fact
that, though N.S.W. Assembly adjourned for
the death of the Duke of Edinburgh, it did not do
so when Henry Parkes died. Mr. Lyne explained
that the House was in recess at the time of Parkes’
decease and that the adjournment was invariably
moved at the death of a member, irrespective,of
his being a Parkes or not. The sudden death 'of
W. IT. B. Piddington, M.L.A., on Thursday,
27th Sept., was known in the Assembly before 9
p.m., yet the House sat on until 4.30 a.m. on the
Friday. Premier Lyne and Co. owe something,
too, to the late member for Uralla-Walcha. He
was one of the first Freetraders to leave Reid for
Federation, from about which time started the
downward path of the Reid Administration.
» * * *
More backwash ! -Ac last week’s Minis-
terial visit to Gundagai a deputation requested
that “ the monument to the memory of Sergeant-
Major Griffin, who was the first N.S.W. soldier
to fall in the S’African war, which is about to be
erected at Gundagai, should be carried free on the
Govt, railway. The Railway Commissioners had
already replied that, whilst greatly sympathis-
ing with the request, they cannot grant it, owing
to railway regulations.” Colonial Secretary See,
in response, said that “as the Griffin Memorial
was of a national and not a local character, he
saw no reason why the request should not be
granted.” No doubt the memorial will ultimately
be transported from Sydney at State expense;
but it is indeed a squalid anti-climax to the
fevered war-time enthusiasm by force of which
the cash for the monument was raised, that the
movers should go cap-in-hand to the State for the
few pounds needed to shift the big stone that
they bought while on a blood-drunk.
Grafton, in the N.E. of N.S.W., and
Broken Hill, in the far S.W., are, oddly enough,
bracketed together as one circuit for the purposes
of holding the annual criminal sessions. The
reason is that each centre is outside the scheme of
districts worked by the different Judges, and can-
not be conveniently included. Both towns are so
distant that much more time is taken up in
travelling there and back than is occupied in the
actual sittings of the Courts, and so the usual
practice is to appoint an Acting-Judge to take up
the circuit, rather than send away one of the
Supreme Court Judges. This time the job comes
opportunely in the way of Edmund Barton. His
appointment will nicely fill up the period yet to
elapse before Federation gets a fair start.
• * * *
Very sensible, indeed, is Jawbone Neild’s
recent suggestion, in N.S.W. Parliament, that the
swearing-in of the Governor-General should take
place in the Centennial Park, Sydney, “ where,
from the formation of the ground, the ceremony
could be witnessed by tens of thousands of
people.” Given fine weather, the Centennial,
with its immense area and numerous undulations,
would furnish an ideal scene for such a function,
whereas at Circular Quay and its approaches on a
hot day, and with 50,000 or 60,000 people wedged
together, the function would be a stifling one.
* * * *
Now is the time for N. 13. Wales to count
out the money to be spent on the Commonwealth
proclamation festivities, give it to the Premier in
a bag, and say : “ When that’s done, all concerned
must sober-up.” One member of the Cabinet says
that £lOO,OOO will go “no distance ” in paying for
the corroboree.
* * .* *
On Sunday last (September 30) St. Phillip’s
C.E. Church, Sydney, celebrated the hundredth
anniversary of the laying of its foundation stone.
The early records make an unfortunate mess of
the date, so that Sunday’s celebrants were con-
HE DIDN'T KNOW.
VERY YOUTHFUL PARSON: “ How old
is the baby, Mrs. Murphy?”
MRS. M.: "Tree months
V.Y.P.: “And is that your youngest?”
MRS.. M.: “Howly Moses! ari is it a rabbit ye tink I am?”
siderably in the dark. It is ordinarily accepted
that Gov. Hunter laid the first stone on 27th June,
1800. But Gov. Hunter’s papers loosely indicate
that he laid it in October, 1798, whereas Gov.
King claims to have laid the first stone in October,
1800. Gov. Hunter certainly laid the foundation
of the first St. Phillip’s in 1793. The convicts
burnt that place down to escape Sunday service,
but to rub in the punishment the Gov. made them
fit up a new church by Sunday work. Which of
all these foundations was celebrated on Sunday
cannot now be historically shown. September 30
answers to none of them.
* * * *
“ Patriotic ” fervor is being industriously
worked up in the Australian capitals again with a
view to another climax of drink and drivel when
the Queen’s midget grandson and his large wife
disturb the balance of Australia by stepping off
on to this continent. Already the public eye
begins to start from the public head, and there
are visible in the public face the symptoms of the
dizzy feeling that culminates in tons of crackers
and oceans of beer, in the blare of penny trumpets,
the flaunting of tiny flags, the rattle of tin-cans,
and the sight of fat and pompous citizens alcoholi-
cally gibbering in the streets, while 30,000 assorted
maniacs run howling mad in seven directions to
express their affection for the Throne and Person.
It’s coming again—the silly-season, when the
public will have an almost unanimous dogfight,
and when the small, disgusted minority will have
to fight 10 men 11 times a day to uphold
the liberty of the subject to run at large
without bunches of gaudy ribbons and an
expression of Jingo ecstacy. Wanted —a Society
for being Absolutely Indifferent about Royal Visits,
with branches in every Australian capital, the
members of which will swear a terrible oath to
abstain from ribbons and rum for six months, and
never, by word, look, or deed, under any con-
ceivable circumstances whatever, to betray the
vaguest hint of their having any consciousness of
the presence in Australia of a Prince of the Blood,
or any knowledge of the existence of such a thing
as a Royal family anywhere in the heavens above
or the earth beneath.
Yes, it has begun. The Melbourne police, in
view of the coming of H.R.H. the Juke of York,
have received special instructions to keep a lively
and suspicious eye or two on local anarchists and
“malcontents.” If that gazelle-like philosopher
Andrews is ever discovered betraying any par-
ticular interest in a chemist’s shop window after
this, he will probably be seized and gaoled during
the Queen’s displeasure, and any man who has
been known to say ‘ ‘ Boo! ”to a goose will be fixed as
a suspicious character, and find himself shadowed,
and his house, his washing and his boots subjected
to rigorous police supervision every fifteen
minutes by the watch.
Talking of panic. When the police first started
out to chase the two Governors, all the other local
male aborigines were arrested as vagrants, (an
utterly illegal charge as directed against an aborigi-
nal), and run into gaol, where they were kept until
very recently. When Mr. Justice G. B. Simpson
was at Dubbo t’other day he officially remarked
that he had heard about this matter, and asked
whether the blacks were still in prison, as he de-
sired to investigate the warrant for their deten-
tion. But the police had “got the office,” and
taken the prisoners away to a distant aboriginal
station.
* * * *
The tide of babble re the Dookoyork’s
childhood, youth and manhood has duly set in.
For the next six months we will have to endure
true stories of how little Prince George bought a
bag of lollies when the equerry in attendance
wasn’t looking, and so forth. And the reminis-
cences of George’s previous visit to Australia with
his royal brother Eddie ! The flood of small bio-
graphical beer has to be faced with fortitude, but
it will at least serve to wash away a few remaining
anecdotes of Baden-Powell.
* » * *
Melbourne’s four-and-twenty gangs of
municipal councillors are at present rushing
round in great haste furbishing up the city of
stinks against the visit of York and May, and
every little milk-walk municipality wants the
royal pair to be driven through its main street
after landing at St. Kilda. Prahran, for instance,
wants them carted down Chapel-street—about the
narrowest thoroughfare in the metropolis, full of
tin-pot shops and gutters and sign-boards and
other abominations—to the exclusion of St. Kilda-
road, a fine, wide, tree-bordered avenue, the one
decent approach the city possesses at that side.
There is a smellful piece of unused land
on St. Kilda road which is going to be turned
into an ornamental reserve. It is the best use for
it, but the determination to use it has only been
hurriedly come to in order that the Yorks may
not have their Royal eyes offended when they
visit Melbourne. The Argus says the thing must
be done “on the correct plan.of putting the road
in order for the Royal Duke.” Even grovel, con-
temptible as it is, has its uses. Considerations of
health, decency, cleanliness, order, comeliness,
were ineffectual to get the work done, but—the
Royal Duke’s nose and eyes musn't be offended !
Now is the chance for health and municipal re-
formers ! What sense can’t do, snobbery can.
Let us make a new, wide, straight main street for
Sydney ! George-street isn’t fit for any duke to
look at.
» ♦ * *
Sydney’s humorous but dirty City Council,
or an official connected therewith, has been taking
a rise out of the Board of Health by luring it into a
discussion rethe alleged non-cleaning of certain pre-
mises. When some Govt, official had been beguiled
into writing a reply asking for further information
about the premises in question, the Council’s
officer wrote again with a cackle of insane glee to
say that there wasn’t no such place at all, and to
HE NEVER GOT UP IN THE MARRING.
HUSBAND (reading paper at breakfast-table):
“Dear me, I see there's going to be an in-
quiry into the cause of that fire next door.”
WIFE OF HIS BOSOM : “ Well, that needn't
trouble you. No one would suspect YOU of
lighting it.”
ask the department what it thought of itself. It
was a childlike little joke, but the originator seems
to have been so proud of it that he couldn’t keep
it out of the papers. Up to date nobody has
laughed, and, after all, a Punch and Judy council
isn’t what Sydney most wants just now. A
few funereal men, with long horse-coun-
tenances and rusty clothes that bag at the
knees, who have a knack of putting things
right, would be worth more at present than the
maddest wag that ever tied a bit of brown paper
to a complete stranger’s coat-tail and then ran
away. Some time ago Sydney’s municipal fathers,
assembled in conclave with" Alderman Norton’s
dog, nearly came to a decision about putting up a
destructor, so that it would no longer be necessary
either to leave the garbage in a park or tip it into
the sea to wash up again on the shores at Watson’s
Bay. But some technical point or matter of eti-
quette got in the way, and things fell back to
about where they had been before. Some burst
of mirth and merriment, such as writing to the
Board of Health to ask if it has seen the destructor
and then sending another letter to say the Board
can’t see it for it isn’t there, may possibly arise
out of this circumstance.
* * * *
Sydney Telegraph keeps pegging away
at N.S.W. Govt, to abolish Sydney Technical
College art-classes ; drop the rival societies’ subsi-
dies for art-tuition ; and appoint a single instructor
under the Gallery trustees.
* * * *
Poor Art! The Victorian Artists’ Society
happens to be located in the constituency of Mel-
bourne East, and therefore John Anderson, who
represents that district, was put up in the As-
sembly to beg for it a grant of a miserable £IOO
from Government. John is a very good hotel-
keeper, but his business doesn’t require him to
know more about Art than is represented on the
label of a whisky-bottle. John put it that Art in
Victoria is languishing for want of £100; that the
“ poor artists, ” some of them women, ought to be
helped to make a living ; and that as the Duke of
York is coming the “poor artists” ought to be
given an opportunity of showing him what they
can do—-a fat lot the Duke of York will know
about it! A more humiliating exhibition one has
rarely witnessed. One shivered to hear the pub-
lican mouthing about the dire needs of Art, and
the essentialness of this £IOO. If the Vic. Artists’
Society has any self-respect, or any sense of the
dignity of Art, it will stop this annual loathsome
plea for a pittance which is always denied. Art
in Australia may be a poor Lazarus, but it need
not beseech the political dogs to lick its sores in
public.
* * * *
The recent Armidale (N.S.W.) celebration
of the silver jubilee of the newly-elevated Mon-
signor O’Connor, was attended by the local Anglican
Archdeacon Ross. Also a letter was read from the
Anglican Bishop of Grafton, expressing pleasure
at the appreciation of the venerable cleric’s worth
and services, and further referring to the “ friendly
feeling existing between the local heads of the
respective churches.” Monsignor O’Connor, for
his own part, said that “ there was nothing he had
a greater abhorrence of than a bigot; an ignorant


Do you know you can use
SUNLIGHT
SOAP
its boiling the clothes, or without
foiling the clothes, and the result
IPill be clean sweet linen,
white as driven snow.
SoreTbroat
“You cannot do better than
gargle with ‘Condy’s Fluid.’ ”
Sir Morel! Mackenzie, M.D.
(The Eminent Throat Specialist)
Gargle
with
Condy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL, London, England
are the only Makers.
CONDY’S FLUlD”can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores, jSew are of imitation.
The CALLAGHAN Boot
af
This celebrated Comfort Boot can be '
obtained only from Callaghan & Son. It is '
MftPE TO FIT
the foot. Fresh shipment just received
in all sizes and fittings for both ladies and gentlemen. • <
NO FOOT DWARFING OR DISTORTION. ,
AN END TO CORNS AND BUNIONS.
Value is our
Trade loadstone.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
i
395 George Street, Sydney. i
bigot was a danger to the community, and,
whether clergyman or layman, should be hounded
out of the community.” Which almost makes
one hope for a return of the “brave days of old ”
before the yelp of the Yellow Pup was heard in
the- land or the Consecrated Press had com-
menced to put paltry provincial sectarianism
before a broad and united Australianism.
* * * *
Re the Redwood imbroglio, many R.C.’s
are particularly displeased over the whole business,
by reason of the fact that, on the occasion of the
dedication of St. Mary’s Cathedral, they could not
pay the admission charges. Those who have been
regular weekly contributors towards the building
fund are especially indignant.
* * * *
An Australian epidemic of wife-killing ap-
pears to have set in. Per contra, one woman has
stabbed her husband to death with a carving
knife; and again, a Melbourne slater is charged
with having brutally slain his paramour. The
law sometimes has mercy on the man who kills
his wife, but never on the man who kills his
“paramour.” In fact, you never see the word
paramour used, saved in connection with a hang-
ing, actual or prospective.
* * * *
“Bow Bells ” to The Bulletin :
Though Melbourne Argus is probably the most snob-
bish paper in Australia, it is hardly ever able to handle a
matter touching titles and decorations without going
wrong. Thus, re a recent cable, the journalistic Jeames
comments that Hopetoun “gave up the badge of the
Royal Victorian order ” for the following reason “ A
vacancy in the order of the Thistle having been caused
by the death of the Duke of Argyll, Lord Hopetoun was,
in July last, appointed to the order, and consequently re-
tires from the less-important Royal Victorian order.”
Now this is so much nonsense, invented out of the Argus’s
silly head. What Hopetoun gave up was the Chancellor-
ship of the Royal Victorian order, which he held
by virtue of being Lord Chamberlain. A man does not
' give up one decoration when he receives a higher one.
Thus Hopetoun will be able to wear the green ribbon of
the Thistle, the blue and red ribbon of St. Michael and
St. George, and the red, white, and blue ribbon of the
Royal Victorian order. He can wear the badges of all the
orders at once. You can bet all you are worth that on
ceremonial occasions he will wear the green sash of the
Thistle across his somewhat narrow chest, with the regu-
lation stars of the three orders splashed over him. The
Thistle is an even more exclusive order than the Garter,
though second to it in rank. Only 21 people wear the
green rag.
• * * *
Lovely simile from one of the indignant
speeches, at Nelson (M.L.) re inquiry into manage-
ment of Stoke Industrial School: “Theories of
the children had been going up to heaven like the
smoke of the big destructor at Wellington.”
* * • *
In N.S.W., Vic., S.A., and Queensland
during the past 15 years 203,227 children under
two years old have died and it is contended that
100,000 of these deaths were distinctly preventible.
* * * *
“ G.M.H.” writes The Bulletin re cer-
tain observations by “ Gouli-Gouli ” about local
Americans and the idiotic N. Y. fashionable tum-
ing-up of the sleeve :
Well, there are Americans, and Americans. The man
from the “patrician” N.Y. sidewalk goes Paris or
London-wards to amuse himself (and, unconsciously,
others). But the man who “ comes round ” from ’Frisco
to Sydney per one of J. D. Spreckels’ sea-caravans gener-
ally comes after Toil, of some sort—not fun. Moreover,
there are two class-“ sides ”to Broadway, even as there
are to Bourke-street. And the affair with “ reefed ” coat-
sleeves walks the “ fight ” side, which is the side the sane
Amurrican keeps away from. Again, Colonel Bray’s
authority- about the number of Americans in Melbourne is
none too good. A U.S. Consul in Australia is practically
in a different world compared with a similar official in
Paris, Yokohama, or London. The Sons of the Free that
“happen ” those ways have pyramids of dollars and areas
much “bushed” in hide-bound Jingoland as in Japan.
Consequently they trot round to the local Con. and fire
gilt-an’-graVen paste-boards at him. He ties on a smile
proportionate to the visitor’s cashfulness and things
warble along in a Niagaric symphony. But out here
the average U.S. cit. lands with about 3 dollars,
and a week generally sees him with a “ collar,” the lay of
half-a-score pubs., and a placid faith in his own simmer-
ing self. The Consul doesn’t come into the yarn till later
on —mostly never. The acclimatised one says to himself,
as he looks up at- the Equitable : “Why should I chip in ?
I’ve pulled through so far —guess. I’ll hoe the row right
along.” So he “ hoes ” along and never troubles the Con-
sul. The Australian is a hard animal to satisfy in the
Yankee line. If one doesn’t everlastingly
say “ W&i'al,- l guess—1 reckon —I kalki-
late,” and carry a “gun ” round, and
ask for “ cock-tails Ji
fences” in-every pub. entered,
the ' Commonwealther goes
away-with a firm conviction
that a spurious, article has been
foisted on to him. If Austra-
lians could gaze out (with an
observatory telescope) into.the
middle Of the. ocean of beer
that- goes down the national
(U.S.) neck, compared with the
“Manhattan lotion,” a certain
Deadwpp'd Dick “ poison ” supers
stitiOn would expire with a pale
blue thud. And when a man pins
a largish-S; and:'S. :on his coat:'
lappel, and frequently says “ Ding-
busted.’’and Gol-darn’,” with an
absurd alleged twang, it’s time to
>ask him casually if he knows the big
N.Y. saloon “ gt-the corner-of Hudson
and Centre streets ? ” He’ll probably say
“ though -the—-said- streets don’t
come within coo-ee of each other. Finally,
the places to find Amurricans in
Melb. are the big foundries and
fitting-shops. As for Kyernal Bell
attracting them— Booh ! “ Hop.”
and other depraved Sydney Yanks
used to provoke him to “gas”
for the same reason that The
Bulletin fondles George Pile’s
undulating dog. It’s a pleasant vice.
So, there 1
Said a policeman in a mail train a day or
two ago : “Yes, I’m going up after the Breelong
blackst My pay has been .increased by ss. per
day while I am on the hunt. I don’t want to
meet them, and I don’t care if the chase lasts for
two years. Since I have been in the force I never
before got paid at the rate of 12s. 6d. per day.
And what do you think ? The authorities have
supplied me with no less than 300 rounds of
ammunition ! ”
No sooner had the Melb. dailies, with
flaring headlines, spread the account of the Black
Flat sticking-up case over the country than the
exploit was promply imitated away up at Boort,
in the Mallee. Imitator used a mask and revolver
and almost the identical words employed by the
previous gang of housebreakers. But he was a
cooler rascal and worked alone, also he struck
easier “ marks.” Tying three men up with ropes
he ransacked the hotel and store and walked off
with all available cash and sundry perquisites—
and at latest was still walking.
* * * *
The queer-looking case of Wiggins and
Alderman Jim Moloney, which came to a quiet
ending (£5 fine) at Melb. City Court, doesn’t
seem to have been shrouded in any mystery. Aid.
Moloney, barrister, lately married, and not
troubled with a huge practice, decided to cut
down expenses by dispensing with the services of
Wiggins, his old employe. But instead of putting
the case to Wiggins in a financial light, he gave
Wiggins a wiggin’ on slight provocation, and told
him to look out for another billet. Whereupon
Wiggins went for Moloney with a small penknife,
and was hastily given into custody of the po-lice.
* tc * *
Factories Acts, Early Closing Acts and
other Parliamentary devices for keeping a day’s
work within due hours, are brightening the adult
world, but what about the beldame-ridden and
schoolmaster-birched unfortunate kid? In a
N.S.W. police court, t’other day, a schoolmaster
was charged with severely thrashing a boy for not
having completed his home studies. The home
study was the committal to memory of a poem 17
verses long. This, as the local editor says, was a
rather large order for one night.
AHEM?
“ Miss Hardchiv says she found the Poster-ball
most enjoyable.”
“ Yes, she was engaged for every dance before
supper, and if she hadn’t taken her mask off
she might have been engaged all night.”
THEBE WAS HO COMMISSION.
FIRST POLITICIAN: “ Well, Eve done
my duty. The Govt., acting on my advice ,
has accepted Mr. Straightman’s tender .”
SECOND POLITICIAN: “ That’s a feather in your
cap, old boy.”
FIRST POLITICIANn (sadly): “ Yes—but not in my
nest.”
The bloodless Judge Hodges refused, at
Melbourne, t’other day, to avail himself of an ex-
cellent opportunity to temper justice with mercy
when sentencing a woman, convicted of passing
three valueless cheques of small amount. After
pleading earnestly for the sake of her lonely little
daughter, the woman' utterly broke down, and, in
a storm of torture, begged the cold, passionless
Justice for the leniency usually extended to first
offenders. But his Honor refused to regard the
offence as such, although the criminal acts had all
been committed about the same time, and Ordered
nine months’ hard labor. Which was not only
withholding mercy where it might properly have
been shown, but was straining the law in the
direction of severity, for the Legislature obviously
intended persons previously unconvicted to be re-
garded as first offenders. To a youth of 17, con-
victed, at Melb. sessions, last week, of indecent
assault on a young girl, said Judge Hodges afore-
said : “ You are young. It was a very wicked
and deliberate attempt. ... I take your youth
into account, and the fact that it is your first
offence, but, taking into consideration your con-
duct and the surroundings of the case, I cannot
give you less than nine years’ imprisonment.”
(Sensation.) The boy descended to the cells below
the dock utterly crushed, and the Sheriff leaned
over to the Judge and said something. Then his
Honor recalled the prisoner, and informed him
that he had meant nine months, not years, and
the Court breathed again. But —there have been
Judges on the Australian bench who would have
said nine years, and stuck to it. Moreover, Judge
Hodges, soon after his elevation, gained a reputa-
tion for severity second only to that of brother
Williams.
• * * *
At Adelaide Marine Board, three weeks
ago, it was reported that two colliers had arrived
from Newcastle with their load-lines submerged
(allowing for coal consumed en voyage they must
have been full-up on leaving Newcastle!). Opinion
of Crown Law Dept, was taken as to whether
action would lie, and it was found that the S. A.
Act only applied to vessels loading within the
limits of that province. The vessel that arrived
could “ take a lunar ” at the Act with impunity.
A law with a hole in it big enough to let two ships
through is a pretty well-ventilated law.
* * * *
Sydney Board of Health recommends that
“rag-piclcing and dealing” and “flock-making”
be declared noxious trades under the Noxious
Trades Act. “Flock” — i.e., rags collected from
the gutters, rubbish-heaps, and other fragrant
spots—is extensively used for stuffing cheap mat-
tresses. Our downy couch ! Yet parsons tell us
that plagues are a visitation of Providence.
The Irishest of policemen on duty
in front of Melb. City Hall, during
arrival of guests at Poster-ball. Two
ladies on fringe of crowd. He requests
them to “move on.”
“We are waiting for
this tram,” they said.
Upon their boarding
it, bobby (loq.) :
“Thank God!
That’s two more less
to keep away from
the portico.”
* *
On a
George - st.,
Sydney,
“ Electric.”
Conductor
to Johnny
(who has
been having
a “convi-
vial ” even-
ing and has
just handed
the conduc-
tor half - a -
crown in pay-
of his fare):
“Where to, sir?”
“ Melbourne.”
“Itan” : Are the N.S.
Wales Departmental franked
envelopes being used? Saw
one t’other day from a country
school-teacher, which had passed
through the P.O., making a fix-
ture for a tennis-club, of which he
was sec.! Also, why should the
Teachers’ Athletic Association be
allowed to frank its mails ?
The Presbytery of Melbourne
North is working up an agitation
against Sunday funerals. The na-
tural corollary is a cold storage co. to
provide accommodation for corpses
in summer. If the Presbytery will
go to extremes and advocate re-
frigeration for Sundays and
cremation for Mondays it
may accomplish some good,
but The Bulletin is afraid
its action is merely an effort
to induce the undertakers to
observe the Sabbath and keep it
wholly—for the parsons.
* * •
Printed that, for the last 40 years, more
than 20 per cent, of the total mortality of A.M.P.
members between 19 and 39 is due to phthisis.
• * * ‘ *
The revelations in the matter of the Glen-
fiiie (Vic.) mine-salting case are another deafening
essay on the old text: “Never have a pal.”
When three men are arrested over a transaction
it is almost certain that one will give the show
away ; often each is so certain that the others will
give him away that they all rush to tell the story
first. And if they all deny the charge things are
not much better, for their inability to tell the
same lie in all its small details often wrecks the
show. Many years ago there was a lawyer in
London who invented “ consistent alibis ” for the
criminal classes. The old alibi consisted in getting
three men to swear that accused was drinking in
a certain public-house while the burglary was-
being committed, and so couldn’t possibly be the
burglar. This kind of alibi mostly broke down on
cross-examination. One man heard accused
calling for beer, and another heard him call for
stout. The first witness would be led into details
which the second one couldn’t corroborate, and
the third one would wreck them both. Even the
impossibility of agreeing on the colour of the hair of
the man in the corner of the bar destroyed many
an alibi. So this lawyer, when the burglary was
committed at 11 p.m., used to have one witness
who saw the accused drinking in a public-house at
10.55. Another met him ambling down the street
at 11.5. A third saw him sitting in the gutter
and too drunk to proceed further at 11.20. His
witnesses never met each other, so they didn’f
bowl each other out on details; and his
was always too drunk to remember anything, so
his statement couldn’t be expected to tally with
anybody else’s. The only way to make a lie hang
together is to make it one man’s lie, and to so fix
things that it can’t be expected to be corroborated.
The most fatal thing going is the well-intentioned
and enthusiastic corroborator.
* •* * *
Victoria pays great attention to her police,
and regards them as being invariably upright and
high-minded individuals, possessing great insight
into character. An applicant for a publican’s
licence was objected to at Wedderburn lately
because he was suspected of being a cattle-stealer.
He had been tried twice for that offence, and had
been acquitted “without a stain,” Judge Hamil-
ton saying, in one case, that the only reason he
could conceive for the prosecution was that the
Crown witnesses wanted to extort money ; while
P.M. Leader was equally severe when dismissing
the other _ charge. Yet the sapient presiding
P.M., having all this before him, refused the
licence because the police still suspected appli-
cant. “ The word of two policemen must be con-
sidered, and they went a long way against the
opinion of the others,” said he.
* * * t
“The paradise of to-day is a land over-
flowing with silk and money.”—G.C.W.
THE LOST SOUL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was more fair, more sweet than all
The fair, sweet maids she moved among
With figure slight, but straight and tall,
A merry heart and nimble tongue.
She had the liberty of youth,
No holy fetters clamped her soul;
Her clear mind always turned to truth
As turns the needle to the pole.
Art kissed her hands and kissed her eyes:
It seemed to us that Helen knew
The fine contempt for honored lies,
The frank rebellion of the few.
We met again when years had fled ;
Now piously she bowed the knee
To creed and custom, and was wed
To wealth and pride and prudery.
In church most rapt was Helen’s face •
To usage paid she willing toll.
We saw that she was won to grace,
And had for ever lost her soul.
E.D.
A LITTLE VARIETY.
For what I thought my dear to be
I loved her well, and she loved me
For things she fancied she could see.
With one year’s matrimonial range
We found each other out, but —strange !
We both were grateful for the change.
S.S.


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’S success is a. Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing t
MARK FOY, SYDNEY.
Same prices and attention as if you bought amongst the daily crowds at the counters.
The coming “ York ” visit has given birth
to a wild desire to beautify the big cities of this
ultra-loyal land. Whilst politicians and aldermen
are preparing to resort to paint, bunting and fairy
lights for adornment, the fair citizeness turns her
gaze to the newest things in millinery calculated
to enchant the Duke. And, so that Australiennes
may be able to accentuate their grace of form to
its highest degree, Messrs. Borsdoff and Co. are
shipping from Paris enormous supplies of P.D.
corsets.
Recently the flock of a certain Scotch-
byterian M.L. parson fell into arrears with their
pastor’s stipend, and after several futile efforts to
make ’em “ part,” his reverence (who is “well-in ”)
said : “ Weel, gentlemen, ah’ll lend it ti ye mysel’
at 8 per cent.”—and he did.
Simplest—Most Durable —Best.
TICHT^"
running
fc-5^3
S^MAOfINES|
Write lor our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
af
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
GLOBE TEAS N 0 *■»*■
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 Geome-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, October 2, 1900.
Mr Dear Mtee.—
Nance O’Neil first, and “Fedora” afterwards,
were the magnets that filled Her Majesty’s on
Saturday. In the d.c. was an abnormally big
crowd of women. Nance’s fascinations appeal
peculiarly to her own sex, and a noticeable thing
on Saturday was the way girls in pig-tails, and
firls with their hair half up, had driven out of the
ront stalls the collection of shiny pates that is
usually to be found as close to the footlights as
possible. In the d.c. I noticed Mrs. Rennie, in
cherry-pink satin, with the inevitable Marie
Antoinette scarf happening across one shoulder ;
Mrs. Henderson, in white, with Miss Watts-
Phillips, in black, and Rignold alongside,
looking down on one of his “discoveries”;
Mrs. .Tack Want in a box with three
pretty young girls in black, white, and blue.
By the way, bare arms are again going to make
their presence heard as they rattle against the
iron seat-arms. On Saturday the revival of
sleevelessness set in in deadly earnest. The only
compensation is that women can’t go gloveless
now, and considering the unspeakable hands of
the average Sydney women, it’s a compensation
with less irony about it than usual.
Nance, of course, overwhelmed Fedora with
voluptuous frocking. That was what everyone
expected. There is a lavish, almost barbaric,
sumptuousness about this fair woman’s dressing
that thrills the feminine opera-glass for certain,
although it often misses fire with men, who don’t
understand the aesthetic value of blatant rustlings,
and cascades of creamy lace. Dots of things are
lost on men. For instance, a necklet in the third
act reminded the masculine imagination of noth-
ing less commonplace than squashed bananas. I
must admit it was a weird throatlet, and can only
tell you that it resembled a bright yellow snake
done in plush.
By the way, seeing the way Sydney—and Mel-
bourne and Adelaide, for that matter —have been
bitten by the large black fowl that Nance care-
lessly stuck in her hair in “Magda,” I would like
to enter a protest here against a possible imitation
of that necklet. Only a throat as large and white,
and shoulders as magnificent as Nance’s, could
have carried it off, and a brown woman with a
natural collarette of red bones is warned seriously
to resist the awful fascination of even thinking of
it.
Act 1 finds Fedora making her entrance in a
lovely cloak of black satin, brocaded in a bold
pattern of pale green Throwing this off, she is
seen to be glittering in a white chiffon frock
embroidered in silver. Her fair hair is brushed
back rather tightly, and an enormous—and it must
be confessed shapeless orange satin chou is
fixed among her tresses. Orange velvet outlines
her corsage, with masses of yellow chrysanthe-
mums near the left shoulder. The novelty of this
gown is to be found in those long, strange trails
of nasturtiums and green leaves that sway from
the waist-belt to the edges of the skirt all around
her.
Of Act 2, the bold masses of purple anemones
in her hair and frock are all I remember. In Act
3 she plays her great scene with Loris in a beauti-
ful creation of sea green, foamed over with creamy
lace. She wears no flowers; only the yellow
thing aforesaid is round her neck, and her arms
shine whitely through ivory chiffon sleeves.
Finally, in the poison scene, she dies in a superb
tea-gown of pink brocade over lace flounces, and
her dying roll off the sofa on to the floor in all this
gorgeousness seems positively heartless.
Thinking over Nance’s dressing of “ Fedora,” I
come to the conclusion that in her we have sar-
torially an artist—original, daring, if a little in-
clined to overpaint the lily—that is to say, to
overflounce her skirts and overdo her floral
decorations. Even a woman cannot help admiring
the way her fine figure suggests its natural lines
through her clothes. Through her brocades and
chiffons you can almost feel her flesh by
looking at her, so perfectly does she keep to
natural lines in the cut of her gowns, that follow
her curving shoulders, big brave waist, and truly
American hips without the slightest attempt to
pinch or mitigate in any way.
Miss Roxy Barton was warmly greeted on
Saturday, but she turned out to be merely a
pretty Sydney girl in turquoise-blue, never the
foreign Countess with the manners; in fact, her
only claim to foreignness lies in her imitation of
Nance O’Neil. Edith Berry shimmers in silence
from the left-front corner of the stage, in yellow
silk and lace overdress, and violets in her hair.
Josephine Thynne, in brown velvet and fur blouse
and trousers, hovers over her Russian boots in a
slightly embarrassed fashion. Kingston’s curly
head has less than usual to do with his success.
He scores heavily as Loris, and is actually learn-
ing to make love in a way that even convinces the
little girls in the stalls. My only grievance
against Kingston is that he makes a man cry like
a woman, with his mouth open, and his slight
shoulders shaking with tumultuous sobs. Joseph
Carne returns to us under cover of a butterfly
moustache. And Harry Plimmer, as -Roxy
Barton’s lover, adds to his successes in non-
chalant courtly parts.
The last night of “The Gondoliers” found
things going merrily at Her Majesty’s, and I
needn’t add that the front stalls were in their
normal white-headed condition. Little Miss Chet-
wynd has evidently danced herself into popular
favor.; pity that her voice is such a long way after
her dancjng. Carrie Moore displayed a huge pair
of earrings, and was showered with flowers, out of
which rudely projected a bottle of scent. To send
scent along with a posy of roses is a little bit queer
somehow. Everyone was called out after the last
curtain—Williamson, Bracy, Lauri—and then the
house sat and clapped for a quarter of an hour
without knowing what it was waiting for. Nobody
came out, and at last the audience frittered away.
At “Banjo’s” last lecture on Wednesday the
Centenary Hall was cheerfully crowded, for the
houses here had grown nightly larger. In the front
row sat the Reverend out of "Jones,” taking a couple
of hours’mild warfare before he began his irreligious
duties round at the Palace. Near him was the
handsome white-moustached soldier who lost his
leg on his way to service, and had been a keen
listener at all “ Banjo’s ” lectures. Although
“ Banjo ” had improved by leaps and bounds, and
no longer studied the toe-caps of his new boots,
he was still amazingly colloquial, not to say
slangy, in his langwidge; but his descriptive
faculty had wakened up, and his “ yarning ”
honestly I can’t use the word "lecture” —had the
interest of intimacy about it. “Banjo” knew
’em all —from "Bobs,” the little man who is
always looking up at people till it comes to war,
when everyone looks up at him, to French, who
was so very, very nice to us war-correspondents.
A pretty little ceremony came off at the Town
Hall on Friday afternoon. The Mayoress’s rooms
were filled with women, and tea, and strawberries,
and wistaria, and into the gathering came Miss
Cissie Harris with the Mayor on one side and the
Mayoress on the other. Miss Harris’s girl friends
were making the tea-party the mise-en-sccne of a
presentation to the well-liked bride. Their sou-
venir was a diamond star flanked with an illumi-
nated address. Miss Harris spoke prettily in
reply, and said she would always be glad to see
all her girl friends at her Melbourne home—a
large order, looking round the crowded rooms.
On Wednesday, this week, her wedding was to
eventuate at St. Stephen’s Church. The bridal
garment is of white duchesse, trimmed with some
specially beautiful lace, and the bridesmaids are
to follow her in white silk with bouquets of peach
blossom. The honeymoon trip will take the shape
of a journey in Dr. Salmon’s launch, returning to
Melbourne in time for the Cup. By the way,
another Sydney girl to quit our official circles
lately was Miss Sylvia Darley, who left for London
last week, travelling home with Lady Susan
Gilmour and Captain Smith, on a visit to the
Beauchamp home.
Speaking of vice-regal doings, his Ex. was at
Miss Jessie King’s concert last Thursday at the
Centenary Hall. The English soprano warbled
half the programme in a black frock embroidered
in silver, and Herr Vollmar played his cello for
the remainder of the concert. On dit that the V.R.
musical taste was so captured with this particular
songstress that that was the reason why his Ex.
was to be found at the Eight Hour pop on Mon-
day night, where she warbled again among others.
The happy news has just come through that
Florence Schmidt has scored a success in Dublin
as Marguerite, with the Carl Rosa Opera Co.
Why is it, someone asked me the other day, that
a woman always looks her worst while shopping?
She comes into town looking fresh, smart, and well
put together. She buys a hat, and some gloves,
and a few ribbons, and her face begins to turn
yellow. She gets into the dress department, and
selects a frock, and her eyes begin to get smaller.
Over the lining, she ages years. > Over the trim-
mings two deep cuts come down either side her
mouth. The conversation, with the dressmaker,
and selection of style, turn her into a haggard
female. The question of “ neck” robs her of her
last charm. Then, withered and worn, she drags
herself to another shop and asks for shoe laces. A
wisp of hair is coming round her ears. Her gloves
are creased and dirty. Her nerves are sharper
than a two-edged sword. Her head aches. Her
mouth is old and strained. Her eyes are tired.
New frock, new hat, new gloves, new ribbons, and
old, old woman ! That’s shopping.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Dr. Carty Salmon’s very last Ministerial act
as Minister of Customs (Vic.), before his marriage
to Miss Nancy Harris, was to decide a vexed
question as to whether embroidered bead-work is
to be admitted duty free as ‘ dress trimmings ’ or
is dutiable as ‘ frillings.’ He decided in favor of
the duty. Only a bachelor could have done such
a thing. Every woman in Victoria is agreed as to
that. If he had given the decision as his first after
his marriage, he would have been bound to rule
the other way.
“Quite a batch of engagements! Miss Corrie
Browne (daughter of Rolf Boldrewood) is to
marry Dr. Mollison of South Yarra. The tall,
slim, dark bride-elect, a few weeks back, acted as
bridesmaid to her younger sister, now Mrs. Peach,
wife of a Surrey magnate. The Brownes are a
marrying clan. Everard B.’s wife was formerly
the dashing Miss Chirnside, Werribee’s heiress ;
and a younger brother married the daughter of
ex-Governor Jerry Smith (W.A.)
“ Miss Dove Greene’s engagement to Mr. Lem-
Eriere comes next on the list. The future Mrs.
.empriere, daughter of ex-Railway-Commissioner
Greene, is a fair-haired, pleasant, popular golf-
expert. Her sister, you remember, was the
society costumiere, whose own toilettes were ex-
tolled by Lord Hopetoun, and who afterwards
married Claude Macdonald, a connection of her
friend, Janet Lady Clarke. As for the bride-
groom-elect, it is a Lempriere trait to admire
athletic beauty. Dr. Lempriere’s wife is a crack
rider to hounds.
“ That tall, good-looking ladies’ man, Dr. Alfred
Hagenauer, of Sale (Vic.), formerly of Ormond
College, Women’s Hospital, etc., is engaged to
Miss Minnie McAlister, a Gippsland belle.
Everyone knows Dr. Hagenauer’s father—the
jolly, genial German missionary, now Chief Pro-
tector of Aborigines. This bald, bearded pa-
triarch, trained according to Moravian mission-
methods, has for 40 years preached, prayed, sung,
and told good stories to his ‘ black brothers ’ and
shoals of white visitors. Also, he has built
houses, sunk wells, dairied, butchered, farmed, and
gardened for his dark community. Nowadays he
inspects, protects, and disciplines all the aborigi-
nees in Victoria.
“Still another engagement is that of Mr. Frank
Syme, the cheery, chatty nephew of G. 11. Reid
(N.S.W.). The latter’s future niece-in-law is the
daughter of Mr. John Gardiner (S.A.).
“That very young Vic. artist, whose star rises
fast, is ttie hero of a pretty little romance. When
the old folks at home deferred consent to his
marriage with the girl of his heart, on the grounds
of youth and poverty, the young things went
through the ceremony all the same, and not until
the little bride came straight back from the altar
to the parental hearth did she begin to wonder
how to break the news. In a few days the
accomplices sent the announcement to the papers,
and on the morning upon which it was due to
appear, young Mrs. What’s-her-name got up early
and went out for a long walk, only returning when
she had allowed time for the shock to soak in.
Then came a row, followed by a reconciliation.
“ A certain recent county-courting, by a Melb.
hotel-keeper, reminds that of all impecunious vice-
regal appendages the johnnies who danced attend-
ance on imported Victorian governors during the
last 15 years have been the most conspicuously
short of ready cash. In between notorious Lord
Deerhurst (a flunkey to Gov. Loch) and the present
time there were several highly-aristocratic hangers-
on whose word couldn’t have been worth less than
their bond. But they all got credit for goods
somehow. They had their little witching
‘ birdies ’ hidden away in a snug little villa, and
their little suppers and other luxuries—and all
“on the nevah, seemingly. Most of the Bwitish
arwistocwacy that comes out heah regards Aus-
twaliah as a Nevah-Nevah countwy, bai jove 1
“At the recent Young Women’s C.A. Con-
ference, held in Melbourne, a reckless and explo-
sive person threw this loaded conundrum at the
assemblage. ‘ Shall we admit young women of
doubtful character to our meetings ? ’ Various
speakers rose and handled the subject delicately,
as if it was liable to burst, and didn’t commit
themselves. They all showed a shuddersome
regret that so awkward a matter should have been
mentioned. Some one stated at last that mixing
the classes had a tendency to lower the tone of the
Association, and the unsolved problem was hastily
taken out and disinfected. So young women of
doubtful character will remain outside as hereto-
fore. The Y. W.C. A. is only for the improvement
of those who are already improved, and its Chris-
tianity isn’t robust enough to stand association
with young women of doubtful character. It is
the kind of doctor who only calls on his patients
when he is sure there is nothing the matter with
them.
“Blue still seems the epidemic color.- At a
recent smart open-air shivoo at ’Ome I notice that
Gov. Brassey’s daughter, Mrs. Freeman Thomas,
is described as decorative in hydrangea-blue canvas
over white silk. Said plump, glowing brunette,
fortified by bright cheeks and ruddy brown hair,
can hold her own in mauve or blue surroundings
with any blonde. I wonder if Lady Hopetoun, of
the raven locks and warm-brown, though not
ruddy, complexion, still looks her best in geranium-
pink?
“Nowadays, smart women, putting their trust in
scalp-massage, get their hair shampooed, brushed
and polished, with the result that, by strictly
legitimate hygienic methods, thatch, that might
have been black, is groomed into bronze-brown.
But there is always a good deal of red in even the
blackest of hair, human or equine.
“If the light-heeled Yarmouth were here now,
he would take back the snub that he gave us about
Australian coiffures. These, said he, fell short of
English masterpieces, owing to ignorance of plans
for bringing out the ‘ lights ’ on feminine tresses.
“In itself, nothing could be lovelier than the
scientifically-treated hair of to-day, though there
are malcontents who believe that Nature manages
just as well when not driven with too tight a curb.
Those interested in hair-culture point to the top-
thatch of two local handsome brunettes as samples
of the system, old and new respectively. One—
the tall vivacious daughter of a well-known Govt,
official —goes everywhere, but is no heiress, and
presumably has little pin-money to spare for the
professional ‘polishing’ of her tresses, which
remain dark as her eyes.
“The other, a very young moneyed matron,
glories in delightfully glossy chestnut coils, tended
by an imported maid, according to the best
Britannic traditions. Re the latter belle, some
people hold that her dark beauty was twice as im-
pressive in the days when her gypsy school-girl
mane had not yet been brushed and frictioned
into its present color-perfection.
“ When you visit a house and are shown over
it, you often wonder where the ‘ old man ’ sleeps,
for you only hear of ‘ Mrs. Smith’s ’ or ‘ Mrs.
Beecham’s’ room. The other day a party of
M’s.P. visited Hobart Govt. House and when
they reached a certain superb apartment the chief
butler announced ‘Lady Gormanston’s room,
gentlemen.’ Whereupon a country farmer-mem-
ber sidled up to the chief flunkey, and, said he,
‘ Say, boss, where did the old boy roost ? ’
“Three polite professional men held the
Dowager of Cliveden’s wraps and cloaks and
‘ gamp ’ as she jauntily climbed the steps to the
box-seat of the drag at the Findon Harriers’ Meet.
On the coach the natty widdy had men on every
side, vieing for her charitable smiles, whilst a
host of neglected girls were lumped together on
the next coach.
“Thesmartest turn-out at the meeting was a
spanking chestnut cob and walnut dog-cart, driven
by a leading bookie. His companion outshone
the shiniest, in a superb tan driving-cloak, and
large dashing picture hat crowned with a wealth
of feathers. There were positively none within
coo-ee of Mrs. Bookie for style.
“ The style of a Sydneyite created an immense
sensation at the Hunt Club Meeting at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. The dowdy dressing of the
Naicest in the special enclosure rendered a sensa-
tion easy to arrive at. But the style of the tall,
imperious creature was certainly ‘ skrum.’ Fresh
from Paris, they say—wearer and dress. It was
a gorgeous black robq, with a 3yd. train (a mass of
frills) trailing behind! A black hat, of the French
style, had a trimming of two long Marabout
feathers, dripping steel drops over the sides.
“John Forde Patterson is just now exhibit-
ing a few pictures at the Old Court Studio, Mel-
bourne. Two of them—‘The Dawn of Night*
and ‘ Evening After Rain ’ —are well-known
works, showing the artist at his best in his old
style, and ‘ Lake Moodemere, ’ a recent produc-
tion, is a thing to be admired and respected. No.
1 in the catalogue is the big picture of the show,
the biggest in all respects that J.F.P. has put to
his credit. ‘Fernshawe, a Bush Symphony,’
which is No. 1 aforesaid, deals dreamily with
Nature, on the decorative-art system. Tall gum-
trees and tree-ferns are in the foreground, and all
the charm of the composition reveals itself through
a veil of morning mistiness, not at a first glance,
but after long looking at it. A great picture to
have in front of one, during a dinner of 15 courses.
A triumph of reserve-force painting is the ‘ Bush
Symphony.’ The coloring, so delicate that a sur-
face effect of flatness was inevitable, harmonises
with the subject. Anyone may say that he never
quite saw Nature as it appears within the7ft.xsft.
frame. Nobody is asked to look for realism there.
J. F. Patterson didn’t create any part of the Aus-
tralian bush or fern country, but he created thia
picture—and the Lord saw that it was good.
“At time of writing, the Dean and Chapter of
St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melb., were rather troubled
in their minds concerning a marble tablet. Mr.
James Huddart, of London, proposes to embellish
the sacred edifice with a tablet to the memory of
his son, a midshipman, who fell in one of the little
battles of the Boer war. The Cathedral wants all
the marble work it can get, but it has a long life
ahead, and the space available for tablets will be
very limited a hundred years hence. Also, it is
supposed to be dedicated to those who have served
the State in some conspicuous manner. Some
members of the Chapter seem doubtful as to
whether the unfortunate was even an uncon-
spicuous server of the Australian State.
“Some of the Suffragists and the ‘Antis’ are
not playing speaks. It was rare fun watching the
by-play when the debate was before the Leg.
Council last Tuesday. And the temper of the
women ! Some distinctly snorted, and audibly
blurted out ‘ fools ! ’ A hiss was heard during
merchant Reid’s irritating massacre of the Suf-
frage. ‘Woman is on the highest plane at pre-
sent,’ he said, smiling towards the irate females,
‘ and let us not drag her down to the dust to the
level of Man.’ He finished up with another
shocking smile as he plied the flattery, but the
angels in the gallery merely said !
“ Baronet Clarke, fresh from a particularly gay
time in Sydney, where his sporting star was in
the ascendant, fidgeted restlessly among the fossils
on the first day of the Suffrage debate, but
couldn’t stand another. His ‘ Aye ’ was not heard
when the division was taken on Wednesday. The
last time he spoke he put his foot in it: .‘When I
went to Adelaide a little while ago,’ he told the
House, in his halting accents, ‘ I went and visited
all the girls I could ’ ‘Oh! Oh!’ exclaimed
the Bald heads, and a tremendous roar of laughter
prevented the blushing baronet from continuing.
At last, when order was restored, he added hastily
—‘ to discuss the Suffrage with them.’ And the
wicked old men laughed the more.
“ Nowadays and hereabouts the Dipping deno-
mination’s handsomest and most actor-like parson
is Baptiser-in-chief. The night this scribe saw
his show, it seemed to be a very snappy little
function. The church was brightly lighted and
crowded with interested spectators who were
entertained by good music and a dramatic sermon,
while in the midst smiled a lakelet of warm water
bordered by ferns and foliage-plants. When the
longed-for moment arrived, the gowned apostle
descended the steps leading to the margin of the
pool and dealt kindly but firmly with a group of
nice girls with brushed-back hair and neatly-fitted
frocks. The lilies of Siloam and roses of Sharon,
blooming round the shady rill, rather obscured
the view, but his Reverence appeared to lower his
‘ patients ’ backwards and keep their noses above
water, thus avoiding grampus hysterics. Not
that a few sniffling gurgles would have mattered,
for throughout the organ and choir were letting
themselves go in the strains of ‘Will you, won’tyou,
will you, won’t you meet me at the Fountain ” or
something to that effect. The clerical “young
waterman’s ” face was scarlet by the time his last
subject, her wet frock clinging cutely to her
curves, skipped up the step 3 and was led into the
towel-department by a motherly attendant.
Yours affectionately,
GOULL-GOULL.


SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULT It Y.
LEVSI, BROS. Ltd., Sydney than any other Company.
H-ft-Ts, HATS. HfITS -.
Mountcastle & Quaitls
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
, valuable invention.
Catalogue to B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Stkeet, BRISBANE.
Largest and Best Company in the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The Reports of the State Insurance Departments show that the Mutual Life of New York
had, on December 31, 1899,
Larger Total Assets
A Greater Gain in Assets during the Year
A Larger Totaß Income and
Larger Amount paid to Policyholders
ASSETS, at end of 1899, £61,980,398,
Policies include Insurance, Investment, and Trusteeship, as required. Write for particulars, giving
name, address and date of birth, to “ The Manager,”at any of the undermentioned'Branch Offices.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General 'Manager.
Branch Offices :
SYDNEY— Company’s Bi-ilthno, Martin Place.
MELBOURNE— 2S9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—2IO Queen Street.
ADELAIDE —73 Kino William Strket.
PERTH— St. George’s Terrace.
HOBART —93 Macquarie Street.
The old difficulty of insuring valuables against
fire and burglars has come up again. It is, however,
becoming an acknowledged fact that it is impossible to
arrange a satisfactory insurance. The Sydney Safe De-
posit lias overcome the difficulty by offering to secure to
insurers the articles themselves in their fire and burglar
proof vaults, and thus, by the payment of a comparatively
small premium in the way of rent, avoiding all possibility
of loss. The system is most interesting, and the ni.uiage-
ment invite a call for inspection. The Safe Deposit is
situated at the back of Paling’s; off 11 dirge-street. *
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADK.
If. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 17.')
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm lias a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. If. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
PERSONAL ITEMS.
With one notable exception—Rev. Cold
Tea Boyce—all the platform clerical critics of
Archbishop Redwood were dissenters. The Angli-
can Church “isn’t taking any” Red Shirt.
Mrs. D. I. Burt, elected last week as a
member of the committee of the Lower Clarence
(N.S.W.) Agricultural Society, is probably the
first lady in the State to hold such a position.
The late Duke of Saxe-Coburg wore about
his wrist till he died the bullet extracted from his
back after O’Farrell’s attempt on his life at
Clontarf in 1868. The bullet was set in a bracelet.
Louis Becke is reported as having gone to
the River Plate for “copy.” Sydney Telegraph is
printing, under the title “ Edward Barry,” his
novel “Arrecifoo” which runs contemporaneously
in Chamreks’s Journal.
Robert Reid, the Victorian M.L.C.,
opposed the granting of womanhood suffrage, but
declared that the man who did not consult his
wife as to how he should vote was a conceited ass.
“Yes-No” evidently runs in the Reid family.
Tall Tim MTnerney, who was appointed
to a big legal billet in Pretoria a while ago, has had
enough of S’Africa. He doesn’t like the country,
and will soon return to good old Australia,
writes Tjm to his brother, the Melbourne bar-
rister.
J. D. Speckels, the Californian million-
aire, proprietor of San Francisco Call, comes to
Sydney per first trip of his new steamer Sierra,
which sails from the Golden Gate Nov. 21. He
wants to talk to Australia about mail-subsidy
matters.
Dr. Carty Salmon, the Sydney bridegroom
of the week, lias lately been acting as honorary
medical officer to his colleagues of the Vic.
Ministry. Deprived of Salmon’s watchful care
there is nothing left for them but complete
recovery of health.
Justice Cohen, who recently expressed
liberal sentiments about the repeal of the present
N.S.W. libel law, is the son of an old newspaper
man. His father was part proprietor and for
many years active conductor of the Australian,
a journal of much influence in its time, but long
since dead.
The most solemn picture of all the Trans-
vaal war is conjured up by the recent cable
stating that the Don Quixote-like “ Billy ” Cope,
Sydney solicitor and amateur-bobby and swaddy,
was a prisoner in the hands of the Boers. Well,
they never captured a more plucky or a more
honest man.
John Downer, Q.C., the lucky old Adel-
aide widower who married the charming Miss
Russell, of Sydney, has been performing very
curiously of late in S.A. Assembly. A gross in-
stance of his freaks of random interference was
during the recent brilliant speech of Glynn, M. P.,
in support of the Constitution Convention.
N.S.W. Law Courts
are remarkable for the
scarcity of Queen’s Coun-
sel just now; and there
has always been a reluct-
ance on the part of lead-
ing juniors to take silk,
for fear of losing the sub-
stance for the shadow.
The three last-appointed
Judges took silk only on
their appointment to the
Bench. There remain as
Q.C’s., Pilcher, Salomons,
Reid, O’Connor, Wise,
Barton, Want, and the
retired Dr. Donovan. The
leading Equity men don’t
take silk—witnessLingen,
Langer Owen, Gordon,
Cullen, Knox, &c. Seve-
ral leading juniors on the
common law side—some
of them well up in years,
are ripe for silk but
they don’t give up junior
work; witness C. B.
Stephen, Sly, Pring and
Bruce-Smith. In Eng-
land the best men take
silk in from G to 12
years, but some of the
N.S.W. men have been
nearly 30 years at the Bar
and are still accepting
junior work. Many of
them will probably go
down to their graves or
their Judgeships with a
stuff gown and a blue
bag.
N.S.W. Postmaster-
General Crick hints that
he will not be a candi-
date for the Federal Par-
liament. A State portfolio and a lucrative prac-
tice doubtless restrain him.
Archbishop O’Reily, of Adelaide, in the
early days edited the Westralian Catholic Press
Record ; he used to write, “set-up,” and run the
paper all by himself. He relates how an Irish-
woman came in one day for her paper and ten-
dered Gd. in payment. His then reverence had
not the necessary 3d. change and told the old lady
so. “ Sure, it doesn’t matter at all, give me one
of next week’s,” said she.
John Langdon Parsons, who ran Kingston
so closely for Central district of S.A. Leg.
Council, was brought out from England when a
young man by Angas, the millionaire. For some
years he filled the pulpit of North Adelaide
Baptist Church ; then made money by marrying
into the Angas family ; was Govt, Resident of
the Northern Territory for some years ; went into
politics with some success ; and is now Consul for
Japan.
Sydney money-lender Federal candidate
Isaiah Reginald Cohen —recently examined by
N.S.W. Public Library Inquiry Board as (ye
gods!) a “literary expert”—stated that he had
been an author at i. 7 (of a novel the very first sen-
tence of which ran, “ The scene of our .story lays
in Sydney”), and that he “had been writing ever
since.” Included in the works of Isaiah are
many bills of sale and pleasant little notes to
bailiffs.
Singularly deliberate was the suicide of
Cecil Williams, son of M.L. Justice Williams.
“ Deceased had to climb some distance up a tree
ere he reached the first bough, about 20ft. from
the ground. Standing on this, he must have tied
the rope on to the bough several feet above bis
head, fastened the other end round his neck, and
then jumped off, the effect being that his neck
was broken.” The body was hanging some months
before discovery by two boys bird-nesting.
-A pet taunt of the S.A. Tories is to
remind ex-Premier Kingston of the day when he
went out with a pair of pistols to force a duel
on President Baker. The old shaft was hurled
at him by Brewer-knight Smith in the Council
on the day Kingston took his seat, and the retort
was that if Smith used a pistol on himself no great
sense of loss would be experienced. Whereupon
the pompous old gentleman, who has hitherto
heard nothing but flattery, smiled a very sickly
smile indeed.
Returned from North Queensland the
other day E. J. Brady, who for the past 12
months has been exploiting the North for
literary material. Brady left Parramatta in Sept.,
1899, inacovered waggonette; journeyed West and
Nor’ West through the wheat country and sheep
country, the green places and the dry places ;
turned again eastward, and wandered towards the
Northern Rivers of N.S.W. Thence followed the
summer nor’ward, through Southern Queensland,
through the land of cattle and cane and kanaka—
finally terminating an interesting expedition at
Townsville, after covering 3000 miles.
Some Australian birthdays for October :
F. V. Smith (ex-Chief Justice, Tas.) 81 on 3rd,
millionaire Angas (S.A.) 77 on sth, Speaker
Brown (Tas.) 62 on 9th, George Dibbs 66 on 12th,
Guy Boothby 33 on 13th, Editor Bonython (S.A)
52 and Judge Hartley Williams 57 on 15th, S.M.
Herald proprietor James Fairfax G 6 on 17th,
ex-wicket keeper Jarvis 40 and H. J. Wrixon 61
on 18th, ex-Premier Kingston 50 on 22nd. Burt
Q.C. (W.A.) 53 on 25th, Premier Lewis (Tas.) on
2fth, Paris Commissioner Venn (W.A.) 56 on
23th, Judge Boucaut 69 on 29th, and Parry
Harnett, Sergeant-at-Arms N.S.W. Assembly,
on 31st.
The desire among a set of Queenslanders
to retire Chief-Justice Griffith on a pension not
yet earned that he may enter the Federal
Parliament, is fed by the flames of various ambi-
tions. A couple of lawyers with eyes on the
C. J.’s seat on the Bench tliink the transfer would
do honor to Queensland. The C.J. himself
modestly encourages the sentiment, for he is sure
TOO SOFT:
CITY JOHNNIE: “I'll have a brandy and soda.”
BUSH BARMAN: "Say, young man, jest you try the sofl-drink shop
round the corner.”
of at least a Ministerial position in the Federa-
tion, and the salary of that, added to his pension,
would be equivalent to a substantial’ promotion
in the public service of Australia. Others are
anxious to pension him, with the ulterior view of
having him available as local Governor with a
reduced salary. But, all the same, if ere he has
earned his pension Griffith, by a Parliamentary
HAMLETS FIRST ESSENTIAL.
ACTOR-MANAGER : “H'm; want to be an actor,
eh? What qualifications have yon?”
STAGE-STRUCK YOUTH: “ Well, I can go a long
time without food.”
wriggle, has it conferred upon him future history
will describe his descent from the Bench as an
evidence of self-aggrandisement as unpatriotic as
that of his promotion to it.
An extraordinary epistle was Premier
Lyne’s letter to the recent big Sydney meeting :
In reply to your invitation to attend the Protestant
demonstration to-night, I notice that his Excellency the
Governor’s name is brought in question. I regret the
publication, and do not sympathise with statements
which would hurt the feelings of such a large section of
the community. Yours sincerely, William Lyne.
There is in the English language no word of
exclamation to suit the case. The only word in
any lingo The Bulletin knows to fit it is
“ How ? ” nasally intoned, and used in the strictly -
Ameriean sense.
Captain Sam. Hiibbe, whose death in
S’Africa was lately cabled, gave up a lucrative
position in S.A. publi3 service to command that
province’s first Bushmen’s Contingent. Hiibbe
was a splendid bushman, perhaps his best work
being the mapping out of an overland stock route
to Coolgardie. His father, Dr. Ulrich Hiibbe,
was the actual draughtsman of Torrens’ world-
famous Real Property Act, and his were the
brains behind that great legislative achievement.
Sam Hiibbe leaves a young family ; his widow is
a sister of “Terlinga” Cook, sporting editor of
the Australasian.
Curious that when George Jenkins, clerk
of Vic. Leg. Council, got his present billet, he
pleaded for it on the ground that the state of his
health demanded that he should have something
easy to do. There is no work to do as clerk of the
Council. Other fellows do the work. But the
screw is magnificent. Now Jenkins publicly
announces that he is going to be clerk of the
Federal Senate. He is working for it all he
knows. His health is better now. A regular
course of at least three champagne banquets a
week, a big salary, and nothing to do have com-
pletely restored him. The same medicine may
be safely recommended to other invalids.
H. H. Champion is standing for Albert
Park (Melb.) and promises to get into the Vic.
Assembly this time. There are not half-a-dozen
members in the House with better claims than
Champion to the confidence of the working-man.
A refined democrat by conviction, with the gospel
of democracy in his head as well as in his heart, a
natural fighter, a close reasoner, and a rather
repellant personality, he is the very antithesis of
the late John Hancock. What the Labor Cause
wants in Parliament is the cold, critical friend,
not the turbulent boon-companion. Champion,
at any rate, doesn’t seem very susceptible to
“nobbling” on his sociable side—if he has a
sociable side.
He is still on deck. From the British
Australasian :
Mr. W. H. Leighton Bailey, the well-known Svdney
journalist, now in London, had the honor of a special
invitation from the Italian ambassador to attend the
Requiem service for the late King of Italy on August 9.
Mr. Leighton Bailey fought for Italian' unity in the
memorable campaign under Garibaldi in 1859-60, and for
his services received the special decoration instituted by
King Victor Emmanuel in 1863.
Apropos, W.H.L.B. when first he met Stead,
introduced himself as the founder of Sunday
journalism in Australia. “ Sir !” exclaimed the
indignant Sabbatarian, “ that is only another way
of describing yourself as an enemy of the human
race.”
Dan O’Connor, M.L.A., writes a letter to
Sydney D.T., backing up the proposal that Chief
Justice Darley be appointed Governor of N.S.W.
Some of Daniel’s blather and superlatives:—
“Brilliant intellects and noble characters”;
“imperishable worth of these mighty dead”;
“ departed and illustrious patriots ” ; “splendour
and lustre of genius”; “noble living and illus-
trious dead ” ; “ just - principled, scholarly,
courtly, and amply-experienced men.” And,
about Judge Darley in particular : “ Our beloved
and respected Chief Justice”; “well-known
stately grace ”;“ courtly manners, kindly heart,
splendid patriotism, fine upright carriage” (talk
about anticlimax !) “ and practised scholastic
speech.”
The Prince of Wales stands sft. 4in. only,
and his son, the Duke of York, who is coming to
Australia, is but sft. 2in. ! But what Albert
Edward lacks in height he makes up in breadth,
for he often weighs as much as 2571 b., which
means 18st. 51b. He sports an ISA-inch collar,
has a chest measurement of 45in., a 34in. length
of arm, a waist of 43 or 44in., and a trouser leg of
30in. Queen Victoria is the shortest ruler in the
world. Her height is 4ft. llin., and when
weighed at Nice, just before the Diamond Jubilee,
she turned the scale at somewhat over list.
Sometimes her weight has gone up to 12st., and
even a pound or two over. The Duchess of York,
whose weight before marriage was about list., is
now somewhat heavier than the Queen.
B. C. Aspinall, the renowned old-tithe
Yic. barrister, was imported by Melb. Argus in
’54 to lead its Parliamentary staff and write bril-
liant paragraphs; but the arrangement broke
down badly. He said that as a Liverpool and
London pressman he had not been accustomed to
the toil of the galley-slave, and it was not in the
contract that he should render his soul as well as
his body to his employers. So in three months’
time he abandoned his position and went for the
bar and politics. Proprietor Edward Wilson
threatened an action to recover the passage-money
which the office had paid, but thought better of it
on cooling down.
“ Puyyaka’s ” recent “Red Page”
article inspires “ Old Jack” :
That essay on the ink-black art reminds me of a man I
once knew on the Auckland press—clever and out of the
ordinary groove. He wrote leaders,-special articles—any-
thing that came to hand. It was war-time, and there was
no lack of material. “ Now, what is this?” he would re-
mark as he looked over notes of subjects to be tackled.
“Ha 1 a bloody battle ! Boy, bring me a shilling’s worth
of rum from the corner.” Or, “Dissension between the
Governor and General Cameron ? Hum ! I think a pint
of sherry will do”—and so on. He wrote an article de-
nunciatory of Provincial government. Congratulated, he
said : ■* Ah, yes, Jackson’s gin is very good. Gin, sir, gin,
nothing more, I give you my word.”' He maintained that
there was a form of alcohol that adapted the brain to every
subject. “You’ve got to find it out,” he would say, “and it
takes more than a day to do that. Took me years—observe
my nose ! ’ Beer, he estimated to be the inspiration for a
report of an execution or flogging. “You want to be a
brute, sir, to write of brutish things with zest and finish
—and beer’s the tipple to make you brutish.” All the
same, he used to take his whack of the brutaliser, on the
plea that a man ought to know himself. He died in Fiji
—of Thaekambau and St. Julian, two subjects he never
could master, and which were not to be cajoled into
literary illustration, or journalistic analysis, by any
known form of alcohol. “I’m sorry,” he said shortly
before his death, “ that I never tried kava—the proper
forcing on a lickspittle topic. But it is too late now.
Bring me some gin, Mariton.”
It has been said that Fiji’s white popula-
tion was made up of Beach-combers and Things
generally. Now, what do you think of this —from
a local paper—for Respectability
DEATH.
Jacksox. —On Bth June, 1900, Freeman Rayney Jackson,
of Castle Cliff, near Wanganui, Maoriland, gentle-
man, and Armiger, J.P., in the 62nd year of his age.
(Served as Ensign in the Maoriland war.) Ue-
quiescat in Pace.
[The late Mr. Freeman Rayney Jackson was one of the
pioneers of the Canterbury settlement, M.L., arriving
with his widowed mother, brothers and sisters, in
Port Lyttelton in the early part of 1851 in the ship
“Sir George Pollock.” He was also a pioneer of
the Province of Southland, M.L., being amongst the
first to take up country and stock it with sheep.
He owned the Birchwood and Manapouri Lake
Stations, also the Mount Beaumont sheep station;
which he sold to his eldest brother. He was for three
years member, for the town of Riverton, in the Provincial
Council, for 40 years a Justice of the Peace for the colony
of Maoriland, for 25 years secretary and treasurer of
the Wanganui Jockey Club, and secretary of the Wan-
ganui Gas Co. ever since its inception. He was also
some time chairman of the Wanganui Harbour Board,
and four times Mayor of Wanganui. He was the second soil
of the Rev. Francis Arthur Jackson, M.A., of Emmanuel
College, Cambridge, sometime curate of Clarborough, cq.
Notts, afterwards vicar of Riceall, co. York, by Charlotte
his wife, youngest daughter of John Rirke, of Markham
Hall, and Retford, co. Notts, Esq., J.P. and D.L., Lord
of the Manor of Markham [sometime Captain 24th Light
Dragoons, afterwards Colonel Commandant of the Sher-
wood Rangers, Notts Yeomanry Cavalry]; by his first
wife Anne Mervyn, eldest daughter (by second
wife) of Sir William Richardson, of Castle Hill, and
Augher Castle, co. Tyrone ; and of Kilfeacle; co. Tippe-
rary ; a Baronet of Ireland ; i.e., of a creation.before the
union, now Richardson-Bunbury, Baronets of Castle Hill,
etc., vide “ Burke’s Peerage and Baronetage,” edition
1899. The late Freeman Rayney Jackson married' 19th
February, 1859, Anna Eleanor Augusta, youngest daughter
of John Shea-Lawlor of Gurteenrue, co. Cork, Esquire,
by Margaret, his wife, daughter of Daniel Mahony, of
A>unloe Castle, co. Kerry, Esquire, J.P., a,nd Deputv-
Lieutenant, and sometimes High Sheriff of the County of
Kerry, and by her he leaves an eldest son, Freeman La wlor
Jackson, and other issue, for which see “ Burke’s Colonial
Gentry” and “The Armorial Families of Great Britain
and Ireland.” The subject of this memoir was elder
brother of Henry Bower Jackson, of Telau, Sava Sava
West, and younger brother of Francis .Arthur Jackson, of
Jackson Dale and Bagata, Vanua Levu, Fiji; F I Inst -
etc., etc.] ’ '
- —— ' v '
The “great” papers really ought to I>6
more careful what “fill-up” items-they scissor.
Kruger, of course, is an illiterate, half-wild boor,
without a grain of refinement—they have said so
a hundred times. And yet. thry print • these
scissored paragraphs pointing out that the old
man is very fond of flowers and of gardening, that
he is skilled in hybridizing, and that he is a pretty
good cartoonist—has a volume still which he filled
when he was a younger man. But quite likely
these are lies—just as the other sort of yarns
about him were.


MACONOCHIE’S
PACK EACH YEAR MORE
FISH THAN ALL OTHER
BRITISH FISH PRESERVERS
COMBINED.
FreSb H«rriogS
Kipp«r«d H«rrii)gs
HerriijgS i(J Ton>ato SaG«
WATSON'S WHISKY.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
Hotel
Australia —«r
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
or £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
This Hotel has popularised hotel-1 ving in Australia.
During our enervating summer, the cool and ele-
gant drawing rooms, the charmingly - arranged
dining room, the readiness and perfection of the
attendance, and the splendid appointments of the
Hotel throughout, prove a boon and blessing to
visitors. The Hotel is so loftily-built and situated
that residents sleep in a distinct atmosphere—a cool
light air, entirely free from the dust and impurity
of the city.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Oastlereagh-st., Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
News of a strange rescue comes from an
old Gippsland gold-field. On a recent night a
resident of Irish extraction returned to his hut
with half his wages under his vest and a peculiar
hic-cupping gait, and Bridget, his wife, rose up
against him, and smote him with a dough-roller.
Whereupon Michael, shedding large beery tears on
the door-mat, passed out into the night, and did
not return. Next day Bridget was full of contri-
tion, and being convinced that her man had
drowned his grief in some water-logged mine,
lifted up her voice in lamentation, and called out
the town to drag the waterholes, and fish for his
body in wells and other wet places. Poor Bridget
herself took up the hunt, and- drifted from one
deserted shaft to another all through the night,
dolorously calling Mike’s name into the dark
depths. Towards daylight she came yelling into
the township for help. She had located Mike in
a mine two miles off, and wanted ropes, the
priest, a bedded waggon, and 2cwt. of medical
comforts. A party made haste to the mine, and
after infinite trouble hauled up a battered and
wasted old Chow who had been at the bottom of
that shaft for three days. Meanwhile Michael was
occupying the manager’s box at a fantod circus in
a neighbouring township.
• • • *
•‘Tom Collins” on making fire by friction
between pieces of wood :
No man, black or white, can produce ignition by any
means hitherto set forth in these columns. To achieve
this barely possible feat, the frictional surfaces must be
suitable in texture, the pressure must be hard and uni-
form, the velocity extreme, the contact continuous
throughout, and no time lost as in “ reciprocatory ”
motion. Where combustion is not favored by chemical
combination, as in phosphorus, &e., it must be produced
by equivalent expenditure of mechanical force. The
sparks which fly from flintiand-steel are merely atoms of
steel, heated to incandescence by the force which has
torn them from the main body. So with the sparks from
an emery-wheel, or from the rails beneath a skidding
locomotive. In every case the force required to overcome
the cohesion of certain particles is merely translated from
another form of energy—namely, heat.' Now, the heat
required to temper a steel spring (590 deg. Fahr.) is the
very lowest which will draw sparks from dry pine. It is
the melting-point of an alloy, 14 of lead to lof tin. And
in the production of fire by friction, this point must be
reached before ignition eau take place. Remember once,
in pinafore-and-petticoat days, an intelligent new-chum
anxious to see blackfellows produce fire. Order passed
on to lubras. Latter unwillingly sought out two
of the hard, cane-like seed-stems of the grass-
reed |to Jin. thick and a yard long; slit one
of these at half its length; forced end of second
cane through crack in first, and sat down on
latter, with former upright between them. Placed
double handful of rubbed stringy-bark around junction of
canes, and started to spin vertical cane between palms of
A BILLIARD TERM—POTTING THE WHITE.
hands. But only started. “Plenty pwire by-’m-bye
long-a that pweller. Too much like-it work.” This was
on the Upper Yarra, when Latrobe was consul. All the
elder lubras of that time and place had been taught the
art of fire production ; but their perpetual care was to
guard against any necessity for exercising this capability.
They never allowed their three fire-sticks to go out, and
always carried lighted bark when travelling. Also, in
Western N.S.W., 20 years ago, I twice happened to see
tribal remnants on the wallaby, and in each case several
lubras were carrying fire—rather a survival, perhaps, than
a necessity. But amongst primitive races, the production
of fire has always been an arduous and momentous work,
as exemplified in customs and observances carried onward
into civilisation. It is by no means the easy process
represented by irresponsible paragraphers.
A N.S. W. railway sta-
tion-master in an isolated place
had thrust upon him the duties
of postmaster without extra
pay. He performed them in
a way commensurate with the
salary. After a time an in-
spector came along and com-
plained of the way the work
was being performed. He was
majestically moving around
ordering this and that to be
done in the future, when the
subordinate darted round the
office, gathered up sealing-
wax, printed forms, date-
stamp and sundries, crammed
them into a candle-box and
kicked the whole caboodle en-
ergetically out of doors and
half-way across a paddock
with a howl of hysterical fury.
“ There goes your blanky
Post-office to Tophet ! ” he
said: “Tell them in Sydney
that the honorary, cheap,
gratis, unpaid post-master at
Bull Gully has handed in his
blooming resignation with his
feet.”
• * *
“Flem”: Re long shots
(“Vril,” B„ 8/9/00). I have
known a station-cook who
was a very bad marksman to
pot with an ordinary gun the
Only two wood-duck sitting on
a log at a shade over 100yds.,
each duck receiving only one
pellet of shot.
“Frank H.” : Re deformed aboriginals
(8., 28/7/’00). Saw the other day an emaciated
N-shaped black-gin crawling along the track
below our battery (at 4 Otho, N.Q.). Her knees
were on a level with her chin, and she made her
way by a haunch, hand, and foot movement.
Behind her walked another gin laden with impedi-
menta for two, and evidently told off for red-cross
duty.
* • • •
“H.S.R.”: A probably-unique nigger is
Parramatta Jack, a full-blood, who for several
years has not tasted alcohol in any form. He
suddenly concluded that it was undignified to get
drunk, and has kept the peg in ever since—and
that, tod, though he is nearly always knocking
about bush-pubs round Texas, Q. He is the only
G ase I ever met of a darkey turning teetotal.
* * * *
“F.W.”; Where did Gov. Phillip bury
his horse? Passing through Sydney Domain, a
few days ago, I heard Young Australia invite his
compatriots (evidently on French leave from
school) to- “ come and see where Governor Phillip
buried his horse.” 1 was disappointed that time
would not allow me to join in the expedition, and
that the celerity with which the others did pre-
vente(j me from putting to them the query I now
~ T * u j t n r
P u * Y ou - f would dearly like an answer, for I
opine that otherwise the future historian of Aus-
tralia will have a difficulty in obtaining the reply
which that Woolloomooloo boy evidently can
m ve
°'. , . .
At Barrow’s Creek a station on the over-
at narrow s oreeK, a station on tne ovtr
land wire, 190 miles north of Alice Springs and
some 800 miles south of Port Darwin, the local
mounted trooper has been a fixture—has never
been out of the desolate place—for over 19 years.
When asked 18 months ago why he didn’t apply
for a removal, he replied, in a rich, ripe brogue :
“ Bedad, they tried the transfer game on me twice,
but I tould them Oi’d lave the foorce first. Oi
shtick till 1900, and then—hey fer a pinsion and a
trip to Paris Exhibition !” Fancy the feelings of
that mounted hermit when he does get to Paris !
* • » •
Some drought items : On the mail-route
north of Little Dingera, towards Nocundra (Q.)—
en route from Tibooburra, N.S.W. —the con-
tractor has to negotiate a 60 miles’ dry stage, and
every bite of grass (dry) that the horses get at
Nocundra is cut at Little Dingera and carted to
the terminus at Nocundra. After oyer three
years’ drilling the bore at Warri Warri, in the far
N.W. corner of N.S.W., is now down 3300 ft.—
and no sign of water. The contractor is paying
ss. per 100 gal. for water and about 17s. to 18s. a
cord for wood. The horses drawing wood and
water have to go four miles from the bore for a
drink, then back, and six miles in the opposite
direction for a scrap of dry feed. This in the cool
weather. When tne hot weather comes— whew !
From Kihee station (Q.), 200 miles north of
Tibooburra, recently started a mob of 400 cattle.
When the mob staggered through Tibooburra the
drover was just 180 short; having dropped this
number en route. Some 25 head had perished on
Whittabranah station, within a few miles of the
town. What a gaudy time that drover would
have had supposing the station manager com-
pelled him to burn the carcases as the law directs !
♦ * • *
“ Lynd ” : Nocatunga station, West Q.,
has lost through the drought 32,000 cattle out of
40,000; Durham Downs can only muster a few
hundred out of 30,000 ; while Kybee has lost all.
• * * •
The drought completely upsets the dietary
traditions of the animal world. Western men
tell you tales every day of sheep eating the wool
from one another’s backs; of horses feeding on
dead sheep, and so forth. “ They did eat strange
food” is a gruesome reality in drought-time.
♦ • * *
“ P.H.0.” to “ Tomahawk” (B. 15/9/’00) :
Because the Clarence River darkies disclaim all
knowledge of aboriginal names and terms found
in schoolbooks it by no means follows that such
books are incorrect. To take the instance referred
to by “T.,” the name of the native bear (I have
myself collected about 20 distinct appellations for
this animal, all used by various NiS.W. tribes
—even in the Clarence district itself the name
varies according to the dialects of the several
tribes), e.g., “Ombudgee” or “ Wambawdgee,”
as quoted by “ Tomahawk ” ; “ Banjorah,” on
Upper Clarence; and “ Turgaree,” in the dialect
of the Coombaugree tribe, near the coast. Further
south, near the Hastings, the name is “Coola”
(as per Bulletin par. 21/7/’00); while to the
north, Casino district, it seems to be “ Boorabee.”
• * • *
Horsetralia 1 From London Morning
Post
It is not every trooper, however, wno cares so little for
his horse. ... We were engaging a party of Boers out-
side Johannesburg when an elderly Australian, in order
to gain cover with us on an opposite kopje, had to ride a
distance of 500yds. in full sight of the Boers, who were on
another kopje. They opened fire on him immediately,
and we could see the bullets striking the earth all round
him, yet, strange to say, none struck him. On his reach-
ing us we ran up to him and congratulated him on his
miraculous escape, which he seemed to take quite uncon-
cernedly, laughing and joking about it. But when one of
the men told him that his horse.was shot through the leg
he cried, remarking at the same time that it was a faith-
ful beast, and had carried him through the campaign.
Concerning drunken country doctors :
Dear Bulletin.—" Long ’un ” (B. 18/8/'00) hardly gets at
the true inwardness of the drunkenness of Australian
bush-medicos. Most medical students know the taste of
liquor pretty well by the time they are near graduation
(though the average medico is, for all that, an extremely
moderate drinker, popular notions notwithstanding), and
when the young man is planted in a way-baick town, he
soon finds that incessant nipping is essential to popu-
larity. Also, the publican is usually the mouthpiece of
public opinion, and if the doctor is not a good booze-
patron he suffers. Then the frequent spells of forced
idleness (for practice always alternates rushes of work
with periods of slackness), the arid brainlessness of the
people, the continual petty annoyances of tne daily
round (which a youngster feels acutely), all conspire to
set his feet on the slippery path which leads to jim-jams
and hob-nailed liver. He finds that a well-timed drink
gives him nerve to carry off an operation showily ; he
discovers that no account is paid without a dash of
liquor, and booze begins to he an indispensable adjunct
to his daily life. Few men are strong enough to fight it
out. Many try, but they are soon shot out by Bung and
00. One such (of the “ clever-man-if-he’d-only-keep-
sober ” class) sent a woman pure carbolic acid to rub on a
child’s chest in place of eucalyptus liniment. She rubbed
it on, and, when the father wanted to collect funeral-ex-
penses from the medico, the only reply he got was : “ He
was a weakly (hie) young , anyhow ! Le’sh square it
up in the next (hie) little domestic event —comanaver-
drink! ” Another (really clever surgeon) operated
on a child for club-foot, and when he’d finished
the mother opened fire on him for doing the wrong foot 1
“Wrong foot bed d!” he said, grabbing for his in-
strument-case. “ Always do it on both feet. Keeps the
(hie) young quiet! ” And he did it on both feet 1
Writer recalls an occasion when a country medico who
was urgently wanted for a bad confinement case, was dead
to the world (as was his custom) at 10 p.m., but with the
assistance of the local bank-manager he was stripped and
put into the bath, where we flicked him raw all over with
moistened towels. He snored calmly on, and we were at
our wits’ end till the banker brought a powerful elect ric-
battery and a stomach-tube. How we got that tube down
I don’t know, but the man of figures stuck grimly to the
job, and eventually we syphoned him dry. Then we
spread him out on the floor, slipped one, terminal
under his back, and the present scribe took the
other, while the manager ground aw'ay for dear life.
Nevertheless, fully a dozen series of shocks- -each one of
which would have abolished a cart-horse —had jolted
through the corpse’s system before he awoke. Then,
however, he just did awake !—and I barely managed to
dodge the battery as it avalanched out of the window,
but the banker caught a lick from the medico's left that
spread him put among the towels. He got up and fled
before the doctor could get at him again— turning the key
as he went, and for a quarter of an hour that practitioner
toiled to tear down the door, yelling for our blood the
while. Finally we placated him with drink, and he went
to the case robed in pyjamas and a blanket.— Brew.
* ♦ * •
Alex M. : Re “ brush-turkeys ” nest-
building (“Bushie,” B. 18/8/’00) this bird (which,
by the way, is a megapod —not a turkey) may
almost any day be seen in .Sydney Botanical
Gardens (in confinement) working hard at mound-
making.
THE DESEIt T.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ITHE heat of Fever, and the peace of death ;
A molten sun, that from the cruel Blue
Blasts the white waste of blazing sand beneath
A circled horizon of hopeless hue,
Where horror broods, tak ng her grisly due
From silent, sunk-eyed beasts and maddened men.
Accursed plains! Where the adventurous few
Seek, as lost babes, for Nature’s breast again.
And here Night brings no mercy in her hand,
For anguis'i waits anew in fevered dreams;
Heaven's countless eyes look pitilessly down;
And thirst-torn wretches moaning on the sand
Await in awe the first fierce fateful gleams.
Knowing the desert claims them for its own.
KURNALFI, W. A.
POKENG.


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR,
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Loek-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
The demand for Zetz Spa Water, which is
compared to the celebrated Vichy (Celestin)
Water, although more argeeable in taste, is in-
creasing. Drs. Helms and Will A. Dixon certify
to its quality by analysis, being rich in bicarbonate
of sodium and potassium, also lithia, and highly
charged with natural carbonic acid gas. Anyone
desiring a pu.e natural water should try the
beneficial effect of Zetz Spa.
“Fx & R” Watches
The movements are on the Lever principle
They have Brequet overcoil balance springs.
They are jewelled in 10 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are made in every style of case.
' They are stem-winders.
They have opal enamel dials.
These Watches go with profound accuracy, stand hard riding and
knocking about, and will wear a life-time.
We keep them in order for two years (breakages excepted), and
guarantee them for 15 years. '
/X
' ■
m
mM
In Gent’s Open-lace Oxydised Oases, 25/6
In Gent’s ~ Silver Cases 42/-
In Gent’s Silver Hunting Case 60/-
jn Gent’s Silver £-Hunter Case 65/-
Lady’s Open-face Oxydised Case, 40/
Lady’s Silver Hunting 1 „ s ')/
Lady’s Silver J Hunting Case 55/
Lady’s 14ct. Gold, Open-faced £5 5s
Lady’s 18ct. „ „ £6 6s
Fairfax & Roberts,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 Hunter-street, SYDNEY.
Mdlle. Celinski.
AUSTRALIA’S BRILLIANT PIANISTE.
CONGRATULATED AT GOVT. HOUSE.
Mdlle. Celinski, the brilliant Australian pianiste,
lias given interesting particulars of her career to
the press. Mdlle. Celinski says :
“ I was 18 months old when I had my first
lesson. At ten I appeared at Melbourne Masonic
Hall, Sir William Robinson, the Acting-Governor,
returning from Adelaide to be present, My play-
ing elicited enthusiastiq applause, and at a State
Recital at Government House I obtained encour-
aging recommendation. During the last Cup
Carnival Lady Brassey kindly invited me to play
at Government House, where the guests included
the Governors of N.S.W., South and West
Australia, and I here received the warmest con-
gratulations. But my studies were somewhat
interfered with some two years ago by severe
attacks of neuralgia, the gnawing, burning pains
of which affected my face, neck, and head. The
pain came in fearful paroxysms causing me to
almost scream with agony. My face grew as
white as a sheet through pain. I could not sleep,
I rose each morning utterly exhausted. One
attack lasted for three months. When the pain
subsided for a time my skin felt sore and battered.
I was prescribed for frequently, but without
success. At last I was induced to commence Dr.
Williams’ pink pills. The terrible pain left me
after using one box, and three boxes completely
cured me. Since then I have had no return of the
pain and my general health and strength have
been greatly improved. I heartily recommend
Dr. Williams’ pink pills, as but for them I could
not have continued my studies.”
Any repeated mechanical action such as
continuous playing acts on the nerves and may
cause neuralgia. Cold and damp awaken the
pain. Dr. Williams’ pink pills cure neuralgia
because they tone up the nerves and build up the
blood. They also cure rheumatism, sciatica,
consumption, chest and lung troubles, skin diseases,
St. Vitus’ dance, rickets, nervous prostration,
debility, anaemia, dys epsia, paralysis, and other
disorders. Sold by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and nine per box,
six boxes fifteen and three, post free, by all
chemists and storekeepers—But mind you ask for
Dr. Williams’ Book, free on request.*
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
Shearing by con-
tract —a contractor tak-
a shed at a price and
making his own ar-
rangements with the
shearers —p romi s e d,
two or three years ago,
to get a good hold out-
back ; but in western
N.S.W. only two sheds
have hung on to the
idea. A plan to get
co-operative parties of
“cookies” and others
to tender failed dis-
mally. But machine
-shearing spreads every
year.
“ Piscator ” : Early
in March last I got
from the Barwon River
a couple of dozen mus-
sels, which I kept in a
tin dish of water, but
exposed to the sun.
During the winter they
were several times fro-
zen, yet most lived to
be used as bait —the
last as late as Bth Sept,
ult. ! Has the extra-
ordinary tenacity of life
in these bivalves been
already noted ?
* ,* •
“Eller”: I re-
cently saw a horse that
had his front hoofs
rhombus (diamond)
shaped and hind hoofs
square. Owner told me
that no matter how he
cut and trimmed the hoofs they soon grew back
to the original shape.
• • • •
In the Burning district of N.S. W. recently
were found a few scraps of blackfellow’s anatomy;
and, as a certain aboriginal who possessed a score
of dogs has gone a-missing, it is reasonably con-
cluded that the rest of him has been assimilated
by the tykes aforesaid. It isn’t very long since a
defunct shepherd, in a lonely place, was partly
devoured by his two kangaroo-dogs; and many
people will remember the storm of sentimental
indignation caused by a N.S.W. policeman’s
“ heartless act ” in shooting a dog that refused to
let him approach the poor clay of its master, who
had perished miserably in the wilderness. The
constable, however, had not cared to make public
the small fact that some of the said master was at
the time inside the “faithful animal.”
• * * ♦
Pathetic letter from Cossack (Westralia)
to the most adjacent paper :
In the interests ot those who keep f gliting-dogs I would
suggest that we always have evening service at Cossack.
At present the Sunday morning service and the Sunday
morning dog-fight clash, and it is very disappointing to a
man if he takes his dog on to the wharf to fight and part
of the audience leaves for church.
They must be curious and degenerate people
at. Cossack. Nobody was ever seen leaving a dog-
fight on this side to go to church.
* • » •
“ Uloula ” : The “ manna ” mentioned by
“Ben Sun” (B. 8/9/’00) exudes from the “grey-
gum.” The stuff sometimes runs down the bark
m a thick, creamy stream, and sometimes falls and
congeals in lumps It is never seen on very old
“EARLY TO BED AND EARLY TO RISE
MAKE A MAN,” Ac.
This is Murphy qualifying—-time, 5 a.m.
or very young trees. Some birds are extremely
fond of it. I have seen up to a dozen “ froggies ”
(never knew them by any other name) clinging to
the bark on either side of a stream of “manna,”
plunging their beaks into it and throwing their
heads back like a boozer joyously interning a long
beer. When a youngster, I used occasionally to
catch a manna-gorging froggy by stealing up from
opposite side of the tree and popping my hat over
him.
• * * *
“Trilobifce”: What have Bulletin palae-
ontologists to say to the recent discovery in
Wyoming, 17. S A., of an almost perfect skeleton
EXPANDED BEER.
JACK ( who has come across a lager-beer advt.): “I suppose father 'll
drink more 'n ever now; here is someone advertising larger beer.”
of Diplopocus longus—n mighty, kangaroo-like
saurian which measured 90ft. from nose to point
of tail and belonged to a genus of quadrupeds
far ahead of the mammoth or mastodon in size
aad much longer than the longest whale yet seen?
, f. restored creature was first depicted as
looking into an 11th-storey window oftneEquit-
able Buildings, New York city—which is very
convincing to the Sydney man who remembers
that his own Equitable is only seven storeys high,
i(n • j „ T , n>>
t • ? n Wat Tell
( B -, 21/7/00). In winter, fish live on worms, &c.,
1° und on the river-bottom, where the temperature
more equable than on the surface ; but during
the rest of the year insects are easily obtained
near the surface, and the fish are therefore on the
look-out m that quarter. Insects are practically
e j? duri "ff wmter. Also to P.” (8., 4/8/’00).
Ihe dingo does frequently feign death. I have
met with several cases myself. The soft fur is
nature’s provision against cold—just as is the fine
wool underlying the coarse in Shetland sheep.
* * * *
“ Vri ’ : Be sea-trulls. Some years a<rt>,
..[W a tremendous S E“disturbance nt sea between
d- • . Tq , U lbturDallce at Bea ROtween
isbane and Sydney, I saw a few scattered gulls
near Warwick, <Q. Ihese birds must have pome
at leasj; 90 miles and crossed the Main Dividing
Binge, about «000 ft. high.
~ XT • „ ~ • i j n /r >
“ Nossie : He inland seagulls (8.,
15/9/’00). The Natabritoi swamp here (Kilfera
station) is now full, and the coastal gulls have put
| n an appearance, a circumstance never noted
before. This is much further inland than the
places already mentioned,
♦ * * *
“ Oanip ” : To “A.P.R.” (8.,
8/9/’00) re mopoke’s vocal abilities.
Almost invariably the cry is “Mo-
poke,” though there is occasionally a
gruesome short moan. Know the bird
well. It builds an apology for a nest,
always on a broad, thick limb; eggs
white and two in number, about size
of small bantams’. Not easy to un-
derstand how they can fly on and off
the nest without rolling the eggs off.
• • •
“ Embee ” : Be larcenous bush
animals. The kangaroo-rat is the
most daring. He’ll investigate billy,
frying-pan, tucker-box, and even your
ear at night; and, if you can’t deny
him the tent, he’ll sample everything
edible it contains.
*’ H.J.M.” : What Australian
bird does “ Rex ” (B. l/9/’OO) mean by
a “curlew”? Does he mean the
stone plover ? I can count on the
fingers of one hand all the Australian
birds out of 890 that can make
“phonetic” sounds; and the plover
(erroneously called “curlew” in Aus-
tralia) is not one of them.
w ♦ ♦
“ Aniooc ” : he talking or bark-
ing crows. We have no better talker
than the much abused common crow.
Don’t keep him in close confinement,
but take the tips off one wing and
give him the run of your garden. He won’t begin
to talk till he is 12 months old, then he will sur-
prise you.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
H.C.B.S. : Moderate yarn told in a dull-brown
fashion with a streak of drab....“ Marcel ” : You say
“ this story is true, only,the man’s name wasn’t Jones.”
We wouldn’t print such a dull item even if the man’s
name was Jones twice over.... W.C. : There are dozens of
better writers out-at-elbows in Sydney ; stop where you
have bread and butter ; or, if you must be a journalist,
climb by the ladder of the country press.... Amethyst :
Keep it for her own eye C.B. (M.L.): “Idol” shat-
tered. “ Climber ”is not badly done ; but wants decisive
interest H.J.F. : Feeble bardlet, maunder off the
grass! E.A.B. : Rejected with pleasure... .A.D.S.A. :
Yes, The Bulletin’s articles, “ A Policy for the Common-
wealth,” will be republished, in pamphlet form
E.R.P.: Oratorio isn’t what this paper doats on any-
how. It is an amusement for fat and serious ladies
who wear heavy woollen “clouds’’and eat large meat-
teas— The Degenerate : Too lengthy for interest
Sandy S. : Get thee behind us, Sandy! F.M. : The
woman who objects to having “ the franchise thrust upon
her” will never feel the thrust unless she wants it. If
she is “ driven to the poll ” she will be merely going for
a cab-ride, the same as many male voters who demand to
be driven there, and if “ a woman must be specially edu-
cated to exercise her vote properly,” what’s the matter
with special education? T.W. : 3,150,0210 z. in 1853
A.B.C.H. : Kindly give the name of the country where
woman suffrage has led to polygamy Blackbutt:
Alas, there is a great difference between saying in a dull
tone that something happened, and making a story out
of the happening G.YV.O. : Sorry we haven’t space for
an article on the origin of banking, or to trace the fleeting
deposit to its lair in ancient Babylon.... J. W. Das : Too
steep. It would take a genius to write that story and
make it pleasant reading.... J. Lone (or something like
that): Why don’t you write your name legibly? When
you tell us why you don’t do so, we’ll tell you what we
think of your verses—if we can possibly read them with a
microscope Quilp : “Bounder” is probably from
“ brass-bounder,” a seaman’s term for a brass-buttoned
officer—and hence a bumptious or pretentious person
generally... James P.R. : You ask us to “pass judg-
ment.” We did pass judgment: they are now in Tophet
Stan 11. : Tame and harmless little tale... .Leonard H..
A graceful fancy enough, but out of “B.’s” line
James C. : Obliged for screed ; but it has all been said
again and again—to little apparent purpose.... Texas :
Not “go” enough R.M.A. : “There is a prevailing
impression that the common Chow has little savee.”
Well, this paper never struck that impression ; and the
man who acted on it would “fall in” every time....
A.M. : Good incident but most uninterestingly handled.
Why not put it into paragraph form? W.M.F. :
PETER JACKSON, UP TO DATE.
Photo, by Brand, Park-st., Sydney.
“ F.” unusable. We can’t print much of that kind.
.. . .Tipster : Too doggerelish.... Ahau : Some tenderness
of sentiment; not force enough... M.L. (V.): May use.
.... Pan : “ Deep ” and “ Air ” are neither here nor there.
.. .. E. Iron : Some strength ; wants more in less space.
Fancy Free: Worth par. only M,C. (M L.):
Thanks. . .C.E. : (1) Par. old. (2) George Dean was con-
victed 24th Oct., 1895, of making a false declaration ; on
Oct. 25 he was convicted of perjury. He was sen-
tenced to 14 years penal servitude on the first charge,
and five years on the second—sentences to be concurrent.
See “ The Bulletin’s History of the Dean Case,” of which
copies are still to be had, price 15... .Demos (M.L.) : N.ot
go d enough... .F.L.C. : Don’t care for E.C.W. :
Feeble... .J.O. (Tas.) : Agree with you that it might be
an attempt to evade payment... .H.T. (Ad.) : Thanks for
watching over u 5.... A.B.C. :No hope.. . .M.P.K. : Don’t
waste that energy with a pen ; spe ‘,l the plough !
Grant H. : “Ship” annotated and returned... .J.A.O. :
Too heavy... Pax : Out-of-date now, and dull anyhow....
A.A.H. : Style too feebly commonplace S.O.N. : Bul-
letin pays for what it prints Wess. J. : Thanks
O: “Tyson” and other only tolerable..... Dodger : Re-
ceived YV.E.V. : “The heavy-leaden nebulae of the
Heavens had prevailed”—but not here G.R.H. :
Better screech than preach 0.T.(8.) : Unsuitable
A. : Fiddlesticks !.... K. : Anthropology” won’t do.
E.G.L. : You’ll find it in “ The Bulletin Reciter,” to
be published next year W.II. (Q.) : Ditto J. 8.8. :
Quite too gushing A.J.G.: You have some idea of
what’s wanted ; not yet enough F.W.H. : Heavy
Irania : Wonder if Thalia would be any worse ?... .C.W. :
“ Orange ” not enough interest; “ Grievance ” same,
though better R.A.K. : Dictionary can’t decide points
like that. It’s well-watered Lindsay Gordon
L.A.W.: Unusable E.J.K. : Not enough distinction.
W.M. : As phonography is both “ sound-writing ”
and “shorthand” the bet is off A.A.A.: Bit small.
... Dodger: Not worth while Bullfrog: Yarn too
sticky R.C. : Worthless Nil : “ Lay” received....
B. : No interest O.J. : “ Trick returned
J.A.O. : Your Pegasus is a rocking-horse, heavy and
wooden... .H. M‘o. : “Mistress” might be better decked.
... .Fortuna : Three aspersions on your intelligence here-
with Zoe : Sent to—Fiji... .E.J.W. : Notabad point;
but you don’t handle it well enongh V.B.M. : Thanks.
... .Leo : Why not give names instead of circumlocuting
re “ the daughter of a gentleman who holds a high posi-
tion in the So-and-So ”?... .B.W.S.Thanks J.A.P. :
Poem good enough in its way, but subject too small for 24
verses Bently : Grog parable lacks vigor.... William
J. : “ Prelude” well-written, but doesn’t lead anywhere
in particular K.H. (Tas.): It is not .yet too late
Urama : The miserable ’bus-horse’s p'ight has been fre-
quently here referred-to. Moral, in your case—don’t
patronise the’bus Clare: Not up to our mark, but
shows, nevertheless, an incipient dramatic faculty....
000-ee : Little story and less style J.E.R. : Very
crude, juvenile work ; but showing humor and promise.
Binalong : Hardly class enough P.G. J. :An acci-
dent to one constable, through lack of experience, doesn t
invalidate the assertion that, upon the whole, the police
are managing Sydney street-traffic efficiently... .E.R. :
All that to say merely that the man got into the wrong
house by mistake ! John F. : Too long, and scribbled
too closely for alteration... .Cull: Motive rat Her hack-
neyed, but some strength of treatment. Will consider.
P.E. : If it is true that all shareholders in the N.S.W.
Civil Service Co-operative Co. have to be “ in some way
connected with the Civil Service,” then the connection is
often very shadowy indeed. There are on the lists
scores of shareholders who have no earthly connection
with the Service T.Q.R. : Be advised and drop the
“ Rose ” as we’ve dropped the poetry.... D. J. N. : Litera-
ture is a big cheese, and you are a small mouse, and
A.G. : “Violet” weak T.J.M. : Good point;
wants another verse or two, and more force in them....
R.A.T. : Unusable P.H.C. : “Chains” shattered....
R.A. : “Virago” feeble M.F.G. : Unsuitable
Sydney P. : Too curt and bald ; try it with more space
to make the girl seem natural... .G.M. : Thanks....
Trotter : Don’t be so consumedly long-winded. Pack
your items to more advantage.... .Alone : “Sermon,”
dull; “Triumph,” graceful enough, but desperately
commonplace. Also, your syntax is shaky. “Of he,”
“afflictions encompasseth,” “for you and I” are gross
blunders.... .Gibo : The Kelly gang took to the bush
15/4/78, and on 28/6/’Bo—at Glenrowan —Ned Kelly was
captured and the others killed J.C.G. : Idea good,
but story savours too much of the parable R. :
Humor thin, and style fiat P.H.C. : “ Dingo Oil ” not
a bad lie in itself, but there’s too much introductory
matter. Might recast and try again E.P. : If the
public knew “ the power behind the throne ” in Brisbane
Street it would not be surprised at that complaisant
print “boosting” N.Q. private railway racket H.
Ambrose: And you expect us to print that !... .H.G. :
We always look with suspicion on these indirect puffs of
the posturing attorney in question Acerbo : If you
don’t write with moderate plainness 40 to 1 your copy
will not even be looked at E.P. A. : We don’t want Eng-
lish news, unless it directly bears on Australia P. Har.
(Red.) : No talent visible, but plenty of carelessness
Leonora : Thanks... .J.B. : Letter received, with thanks.
Chris : Both rather mild and girly ... .R.A. : Story of
Young Wooden is too like the name of the leading charac-
ter Maorilander : Maiwand (Afghanistan) is one case
in point, anyhow. It was a helter-skelter rout Josh
K. : Good story; will print A.M.R. : Medium story ;
won’t print... .Vulcan : Bulletin has already taken that
view of the alleged criminal assault in question. Such
assaults are no doubt occasionally committed, and should
be most severely punished when proved, but it is always
safe to wager about 8 to 1 against the woman’s story
J.M.A. : Too hot for print... .Kirkman (E.V.) : Thanks ;
but it couldn’t be issued in the same form if the proposed
alteration were made. The Bulletin’s motto is “ Lay to
your book.” Not having your address we cannot write
you personally F.O. (Adelaide) : We aren’t taking
any criminal libels from anonymous correspondents....
Vulcan : But what do you mean by “ the Queensland side
of the Murray ”?.... His Mate : Hardly interest enough.
Colin C. : Don’t remember it... .Nil: That “ Lay ”is
no g00d... .Tim B.: Re that action against a M.L. paper,
did you—an old pressman—actually expect us to print
such a red-hot statement as you finish with ?... .Xedo ;It
was J. H. Brooks who originated the famous Yic. “ Occu-
pation Licenses.” He trekked to Japan about 1861,
founded a successful newspaper, and is still flourishing
among the Japs. ....Chris. : Both painfully thin and
feeble Galena : Yes ; the indigenous bee is small, fly-
like and stingless. Cannot say when the European bee
was imported.... Eller : Tame seagulls in gardens are not
very uncommon, but, when you assert that they breed
there, you discount the value of your other statement
about the pair that flew hack from Bondi Mup. : Not
bite enough.
That must have been a glorious treat for
Kilkenny electors when Tim Healy and Pat.
O’Brien—lrish M’sP. —fervidly abused each other,
(as per cable) from opposite ends of the same
platform for three continuous hours. Donnybrook
Fair would be a fool to it.
“ Ex R.E.” to The Bulletin :
There is trouble ahead for someone about those Aus-
tralians who are said to have been commissioned to the
British Artillery without doing the two years Woolwich
course and passing the usual competitive examinations.
The cadets now in the Academy have spent a year or two
at a, military crammer’s at a cost of (say) £2OO a year pre-
paring for the entrance exam. ; some of them being also
University grads. The Woolwich course itself costs £250
in fees alone, and it seems passing strange that a few
young Australians without technical training should be
put over the heads of cadets specially educated at a cost
of £650 up. The question is not whether these young
men will get their 6s. lOd. a day with the extra Is. after
seven years’ service, but whether they are to be employed
to the displacement of those who have been through the
Woolwich mill, and whether they will be put in the list
for promotion ? If so, there will be a row 1


The only rem sf k ' o i’Jio^ > proßramme'tk
cember-last. it.wu Govern-
vWS-sHHxsss";
\ deered iome ol the a*™"* ,
ft
A— '
THE ROYAL VISITS L-l
When the Metropolitan Board of *v
Work 9 met this afternoon, the chairman '
(Mr E. G. Fits Gibbon) asked the board
to adopt the following resolution:—
"That this board records Its grateful
_ feelings of pleasure and rejoicings at the
-O Intelligence that Her Majesty the-
Queen has been pleased
to honor the Commonwealth •
with her approval of its first Parliament
being opened by His Royal Highness the
Duke of York, and for the presence of
Her Royal Highness the Duchess.’.*
Commissioner • Turner seconded the
resolution, which w-aa carried unanl-|
moualy.
■'Mr. A. J. M, *kSs>*ZFtflSl
Carty Salmon, Minister of Educa-
»tfich is to take place atSydoey
on Wednesday next.
pr
fe!),
risflir v)
vitl [lf
di?is vyji |
(
v,rec»syfrot7l
i
-
\ y/c * ,r
N^\4je
. "A THREATENED'REVOLUTIONS
' Mr. STAUGHTON desired to a3k the
Speaker’s ruling, lie'held in his hand “lhe
' Age” newspaper of 25th September, in •
which there was a“l otter from ft gentleman
named Higgins, who represents Geelong.
(Laughter.) The writer of the letter was
threatening the country with a revolu-
tion—(laughter)—for he said that this was
the best possfble time for dealing with, a
question upon which he Mr. (Staughton)
and the writer of the letter disagreed. That
sort of thing might be done in France, but
it could not be done in this country.
(Laughter.) lie wished to know if the bon.
member was in order in threatening the
country with a revolution. (Hear, hear,
and lauehie^.)
Cpf^t ybp& v 2^~
1
J A meeting of told'^STho
1 Orchestral Musicians president. Professor
ktlifilSa/oM the chair, and
w
I \ Tho President said that q{ aort
. been veryanxmusto ovemon t was largely
( formed. The success of the
SSfTn K? oS '
Vficed themselves for the ge t ™ t g re9uUed . The (t
}satisfied toaccept th make these sacn- L
/ »o happy to give
/ / .pvory assistants. _
)WeMV
( X] 4 c=^fX
’
\y cnf;ce-
j JyJ -to
WINE ADULTERATION BILL.
The bill to prevent the adulteration ot
wine has at last been circulated by • the
Mihiatcr of Agriculture. It provides that
in the fermenting, preserving, fortifying,
fining, clarifying or removing defects, im-
proving qualities, blending or maturing of
pure wine, “no material shall be used as a
substitute for grapes or any part of giapcs;
no material which is not a.pure product oir
25 apes ; shall be added*
£s«fefflss&*
!#j Ujo W Con 7C j *'°^
ok% w*v«--sb°p
"t° -Hfe-
0,7, 7 ‘ /,
ljJAcy ]ooK ere
[vjf P)-jforj ,yot*V a peew
jja bl s°>y- Powtle Cy^+s,,
ftyt'O? PfooiT ; ~'l r,
, [llVeil ,^Vr^'V^rf:' 7e
-rtr* <aw i-R btffc>tfter double -- Voy
r& 4 s jpu-'fcn v, f - /
MELBOURNIAN A.


r ,1b a meeting cf pro- /
miacr-.t citizens, at the Town \
Hall ye' terday afternoon, it
was resolved: ‘ That a public
demonstration bo held in the Town
Hall to recognise Mr. Reid’s services
in the cause of Federation, and that
an illuminated address bo presented
to Mr. Reid on the occasion.’”
MO M ST ERI 4
?i?OT£»T' I
r PFMDNSi
1] AT TKI-
Town Mall
‘ AT THE CLUB.
Raggles : “ Any news about 'the war I' r
Shugg : “ Which war do you refer
to; the African, the Chinese,
\. or the Holy War now /
raging in Sydney 1 ” S\\
Thb illuminated addrtas might embody
full history of Mr. Reid’s connection with the
Federal Movement as above.
ws
It really was very
startling, if one didn’t "
happen to have seen the Wm. goat at his breakfast as
he appears to the right of above sketch.
In the Legislative Assembly yesterday
Mr. Gillies asked the Premier if he had
noticed the statements of the Mayoi in th
daily papers in reference to certain dirty
premises; and, if so, whether he had replied
to those statements.
Sir William Lyne said that all he knew
was that the Mayor ha<l subpoenaed him to
■ appear before the
| I Central Police
I I Court (Laughter.)
EDUCATIONAL.
Teacher : “ In what country
is there a man who does what
he likes or thinks best, and what is he called 1 ”
Pupil (whose father reads the S.M.H.): “ Please, sir, New SQUtb
Wales, and his name is Mr. O’Sullivan.”
Under an Act passed by the Turner
Government all Victorian surpluses are to be
used to reduce the old deficit—to replace sums
borrowed from the trust funds in the chrome
shortage days. One of the first deeds of the
M'Shipls Ministry is to procure a suspension of
this Act so as to allow part of last year’s surplus
to be set aside as a fund for war purposes. The
Fat Men who shouted so tremendously about their
readiness to “ make sacrifices for the Empire
'Won’t sacrifice, as usual. When it. is a question of
paying the bill themselves or leaving so much the
more of their deficit for their children to pay,
they resolved unanimously to leave it to theij
children. _
Voice e.om .»« » 2dJK
cfcargted with maintaining fa d you plead?”
S 3 Wi4. under
the First Offenders’ Act.
\7a/>/fe~r .
Mr. O’Conor desired to know
what, in Major Beam's c jiniorr,
would be the probable results of
wearing such a headgear as that
adopted by the 7th Regiment. Did
he think that the likelihood of sun-
stroke had affected the intelligence
of the officers, and thus led. to
the confusion which existed in the
regiment 1.
Major Boam : I am afraid that
<their intelligence was affected be-
fore they got the busbies.
Here, by-the-by, may be seen the Cc' lof the 7th Regiment defy-
ing sunstroke in one of .those busbies. 1 *i.zle, to. find the Colonel.
PASSING It ON.
Posterity . “ But, look here, you know, I had nothing to do
with this ; I never ordered ”
Patman : “ Never mind, we had the glory of saving the Em*
pire, ajid you shall have the glory of paying the bill. There’s a
Glorious Heritage for you ! Nobody left me a Glorious Heritage!”
SOME SYDNEY MATTERS.


Mr. Paris Nesbit, Q.C., writes from
Adelaide:
Dear Bulletin. —In issue of 22nd inst. you say “ Paris
Nesbit, Q.C., when not bringing hopeless law-suits on his
own account, is conducting other people’s cases and
generally winning them. It is possibly a symptom of his
excitable nature that he constantly takes snuff in court,
this being the only nerve tonic allowed there. The Lord
Chief Justice of England, just dead, was addicted to the
same old-fashioned habit.”
Will you allow me to say that, whether the law-suits I
institute on my own account are hopeless or not, I have
never, so far as I can remember, lost one of them yet. In
fact, I have brought very few. But as, owing to my
extremely patient and long-suffering disposition, there is
a wide-spread belief that I can be slandered, libelled,
assaulted, beaten, knocked about the head by policemen,
sent down to gaol on illegal convictions, and to lunatic
asylums on illegal orders—in fact, that I am an outlaw.
I think it is time that I took some steps to show that I
am as much under the protection of the law as a fool or
an idiot.
The Adelaide Evening Journal libelled me grossly some
2i .VCQ-rs ago. And though, after I had interviewed the
proprietor, he corrected the false report in the next day’s
Register, he refused to insert at my request a very
moderate expression of regret which I penned. I immedi-
ately brought an action for heavv damages. Owing to the
great depression under which i" was suffering, in conse-
quence mainly of the hideous ill-treatment I suffered in
the Lunatic Asylum, I only had energy enough last year
to carry on my own large practice at the Bar. But three
months’ holiday in Maoriland having restored my
strength, I gave notice to the defendant’s solicitors,
Messrs. Symon and co., some two months ago that I
should proceed with the action unless an apology were
inserted twice in the Register and Journal and my
costs paid. This was done. So there was nothing very
hopeless about that law-suit.
With regard to my prosecution of Dr. Ramsay Smith,
Mr. Homburg, the independent Special Magistrate who
took my information, refusod to sit on the hearing if any
unjiaid Justices sat with him. This, no doubt, for reasons
sufficiently obvious to anyone who knows, as you do,
what many unpaid Justices are.
Although my prosecution of Dr. Ramsay Smith, a paid
servant of the Government, was obviously hopeless before
the tribunal conducting the preliminary investigation ;
although the prosecution was virtually an indictment of
the late Government, th e personnel of which was, to a great
extent, the same as that of the present Government:
al though the senior counsel for the defendant was Premier
in the late Government; although the junior counsel for
the defendant was the Assistant-Crown Solicitor, a paid
servant of the Government; although the presiding
Magistrate was also a paid servant of the Government;
although several of the unpaid Justices showed from the’
first their intention of dismissing the information;
although I was stopped before an hour had elapsed in my
opening of the case, which, alleging, asit did, bad faith
on the part of the defendant, and a conspiracy by
the Government, would have taken at least a day to
open ; although I was constantly subjected to insults' and
attempted rebuffs from the Bench ; although several jus-
tices, at least, wished to dismiss the case before I had
called one-tenth part of of my witnesses ; although the
animus against me was so strong that, at the instance of
one Justice, a lady who whispered to me during my open-
ing, in a tone so low that neither Mr. Kingston, the
Counsel for the defendant, nor myself knew that she had
spoken, was rudely and, I think, illegally, turned out of
the court; yet I persevered from early morn to dewy eve.
Not that I had the slightest hope of justice under any
circumstances. But in order to let the public (who, by
the bye, were turned out of Court at the commencement
of the case, but were represented by the reporters) have
some idea of the injustice which had been inflicted upon
me. At the close of my evidence I indignantly withdrew
the case from the further consideration of the persons
before whom I was pleading it, and thus prevented them
from deciding it according to a foregone conclusion.
But no one who knows me imagines the case is at an
end. If I cannot get an independent tribunal as the law
is now constituted, I shall, acting on a suggestion in
Judge Bundey’s pamphlet on the administration of the
criminal law in South Australia, have a Bill brought
before Parliament for. an Act to revert to the system of
grand juries, which has been abolished in South Aus-
tralia. His Honor pointed out many years ago (as it now
turns out, prophetically) the injustice which might result
from the dangerous power which our present system I
vests in the Government of the day.
A few words as to my alleged excitability. Herbert
Spencer defines life as “a condition of unstable equili-
brium." The only unexcitable person is a corpse. Even
he can be excited for some time after death by electricity.
I am certainly alive (very much alive), and, in that sense,
l am excitable. If you prick me, do I not bleed ; if you
tickle me, do I not laugh ; if jmu poison me, do I not die;
if you wrong me, shall I not have revenge? Or rather—
for I have no revenge in my nature—shall I not obtain
justice?
In the sense, however, in which you use the word, I am
about the least excitable person I ever knew. An excit-
able man loses his head in a crisis, and constantly says
and does things which he afterwards regrets. For myself,
the acuter the crisis, or the greater and more sudden the
danger, the cooler I am. I have never said or done any-
thing serious which I in any way regret. Nor have I ever
in my life in the slightest degree lost my self-control,
even when subjected to the grossest insults and injuries.
On the contrary, I am and alwaj r s have been extremely
slow to anger and easily and quickly appeased. A sincere
expression of regret disarms me at once, whatever injury
I may have suffered.
Pray pardon all this egotism. But, as Plutarch says,
egotism is venial in the unfortunate and justifiable in the
calumniated. I have been, apparently, very unfortunate
(not really so), and I have certainly been much calum-
niated. So, in justice, I hope you will print the above,
though I admit it is unconscionably long.—Yours faith
fully, Paris Nesbit.
STOPS COLD
This Well-known Remedy for -
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Safe and pleasant for Children.
H
AYMAN'S
BALSAM
“ I lisa a good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had Whooping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.”—E. M. D., The Elms,
June, 1893. Faringdon.
AGENTS—Elliott; Hoffbung ; Duerdln;
A. Drug Co.; Felton ; Faulding; Falk.
CURES COUGH
20 HIGHEST AWARDS
At every International Exhibition since 1851, wherever
it has been in competition.
SOAP
Has invariably been awarded the Highest Distinction at
the disposal of the Judges.
The Testimony of Eminent Analytical
Ch enlists :
§ From Dr. REDWOOD, Ph.D.,
F.1.C., F.C.S., See.,
Late Professor of Chemistry and Pharmacy to the
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
“My analytical and practical experience
of Pears’ Soaji now extends over a very
lengthened period—nearly 50 years—during
which time I have never come across
another toilet soap which so closely realises
my ideal of perfection ; its purity is such
that it may be used with perfect confidence
upon the tenderest and most sensitive skin
—even that of a new-born babe.”
CHAS. R. C. TICHBORNE, Esq.,
LL.D., T.1.C., F.C.S.,
Lecturer on Chemistry at Carmichael College of
Medicine, Dublin, and Chemist to the Apothe-
caries’ Hall of Ireland.
“I have made three separate and in-
dependent analyses of Pears’ Soap, obtain-
ing the samples myself at the ordinary
retail shops, and from these examinations
lam enabled to certify,'to its purity. 11 is
made in a most perfect, manner, and is free
from any causticity—to persons of delicate
skin a question of vital importance. Being
free from all adulteration with water its
durability is really remarkable. I cannot
speak too highly of it, for it strikingly
illustrates the perfection of toilet soap.”
STEVENSON McADAII, Esq.,
Ph.D., &c.,
lecturer on Chemiitry, Surgeons' Ball,
Edinburgh, Scotland.
“ I have made careful analyses of Pears’
Soap, which I have obtained indiscrimi-
nately at different shops in Edinburgh,
and lean certify to its being a pure and
genuine soap, free from admixture with
any foreign substances, and practically
devoid of causticity. It combines detergent
with emollient properties in a high degree,
and it may therefore be used with great
advantage for toilet and bath purposes,
especially in the case of children and others
whose skin is soft and delicate, and liable
to be affected by the impure and caustic
nature of ordinary soap.”
a
BRA.KTDT’S PATENT
HAND K€-MAKER
FOR
HOUSEHOLD
USE.
MAKES
ICE IN TEN (10)
MINUTES !
EVERY WIFE HER OWN
ICE-MAKER !
This machine will produce ice in any climate, no matter how hot.
LATEBT ICE-CREAM FREEZERS, which require no turning ot handle. 15
20s. and 255. each.
BRANDT
RROR 236 P'tt-street, Sydney; and
DnvOi 422 & 424 Elizabeth.st., Melbourne
GOOD
HAIR FOR
ALL !
%
All Chemists
#
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE.
/tST For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss"; postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
SS" For RESTORING GREY HAIR to its ORIGINAL
COLOR. It acts Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively.
Price, 6s. 6d.; postage, 9d. extra.
%
Washington H. Soul & n
Pitt-street, Sydney.
F
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-street, MELBOURNE,
‘ COMMON SEN SB EAll DIiUM”
the
DEAF
nEAE
/COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
yYTOL
Is a restorative and physical regenerator of
magic power. A broken-down or weakened
system rejuvenated. Vytol acts on thr
nerves, brain and blood, quickly and permar
ently restoring to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of youth. Price posted 7/6.
A.O. Co., 639 Elizabeth-street, North Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
1.0. F
niVJ
/Uj
W L.B.C:
WES
OffDER
STERS
Registered under the “Companies
Act, 1890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S. A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, over £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £838,581.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONIIYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
-INDEPENDENT ORDER" FORESTERS
Incorporated, by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 6! Vic. and 59 Vic.
A Great International and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
The 1.0. F. gives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World.
The Premiums pay not only for Life Assurance, but also for Disability and Old Age Pension.
All Premium paying in the 1.0. F. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability.
EXAMPLES:
£lOO Policy.
/ Age 18 20 25 30 35 40 45 60
\ Monthly Ppemihm Ib. 7d. Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd. 2s. lid. 3s. 6d. 4s. 4d. 6s. Id.
Policies for £lOO, £2OO, £4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £lOOO issued to Men and Women,
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
Office for South Australia :
J. H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria. Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. McNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for New South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 George St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus, with full Table of Bates, <scc., on Application.
Business Announcements.
iXXXXXXXXXXXX X XXXXXXX XXXXX XXXXXX XX
iXXXXXXXXXXXX X XXXXXXX XXXXX XXXXXXXX
CX
cx
{X
cx
cx
cx
cx
cx
cx
cx
cx
cx
ex'
cx
:x
cx
cx
cx
cx
cx
Wbo’s YoOr Hatter ?
You will certainly favor us with an Order
when you receive a Copy of our
LL I” fiat Pamphlet
If you send us your Name and Address we will
forward you a copy, also the Latest Portrait of
Generals Roberts, Buller and Kitchener— FßEE.
Write for One !
HCRDERNBROTHERS,
DIRECT IMPORTERS.
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-st., Sydney.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
txx
,xx
XX
XX
!xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
cxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxx
cxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxx
ladies’ Tailoring
—SPRUNG-
NSW SELF SMAUEb
Meltons, Venetians & Sergerettes.
LATEST DESIGNS
IN
Fancy Worsteds and Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each In-
coming Mail boat throughout
the Beason.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
v \T*NE*Ar
MEMORY,
LESSONS
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectuf,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
42 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
Extracts from Letters.
J. T. GRESTY, Esq., Prof. Mus., Syd.—“ It has increased
ny natural memory for music to a remarkable decree. To
nusical students ft will be a great boon, ana a sure
itepping-stone to success.”
Mr. G. T. DAVIS, Dunedin, N.Z.—"lt has greatly
itrengthened my-natural memory, and given me the
lower to readily connect and to lastingly memorise the
most abstruse, disconnected and uninteresting matter—
naking study easy and delightful.”
STEPHEN. R. MILLER, Esq., Sydney.—" Your rules
ire perfectly natural, and tend as much to improve an
irdinarv memory as to cure a bad one. In my position
is Chief Clerk of the Statistical branch of the Ry. Dept. I
have great scope for memory. Your system has been of
very great service to me.”
Publications.
LADIES.-^-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
address —L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
Books. Books. Books,
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
L Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
tor £2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
-3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
>nly be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
looks sent post free. Mention this paper.
q. W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streee, Sjdney.
I
a
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
LLUSTRATED
BOOKLET
Of RARE
BOOKS.
lI.LUST R A T E D
f
Address, PRIVATE,
TTTITH numerous anatomical
' r colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) foi postage.
, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
rang
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPEDIA.
” 'i^ 3 n ? 1 K'fted you witli words and manners that
Tn lnl.» ) tS V the . cr3 ' Encyclopedia will supply the art.
« e i,l ,n "i' 3 ’ 1 . 40 P 0 - You can-the knowledge Im-
b y _ t'sla book unlocks the gate and yon have only to
col,3 . lders t,le whole subject from the time you
U " yo i‘ two aie one - Valuable chapters also about
SC appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
things hcuetofore secrets. Reproductions of curious love
HUNDRED tlt-blts in prose and poetry
hHn/™.? « n ? 11 ?. aly U3e .f or - 2s- M. (stamps 2d. extrajwlfi
book Y mall v post free - and Incidentally hap-
niueas with one you love. Anglo-American Publishing Co.,
Waterloo Chambers, 4SB George-st., Sydney, N.B.W. Mentloa
tlrta paper when writing.


YOUE Wedding Presents can be Supplied by A. SAUNDEES,
The
Reliable
Jeweller & Silversmith.
A. SA’JNDERS.
BISCUIT,—FIoraI China, real
Silver-plated Mounts, 20s.
Similar designs, 15s, 255, 30s. Very
pretty and acceptable present.
A. SAUNSERf.
LADIES’ FRIEND.—Pure Solid Silver
Mounts, 18s 6d.
Very useful and acceptable pre t ents.
mm
mixjiu
l\\\\V
A, SAUNDERS
SALAD BOWL and SEIiVEiiS, with Silver-
plated Mounts and Handles, 30s.
Similar, 20s and 255.
Pretty Floral China, 255, 30s, £2 and £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SErS.— Pure So.id Si ver, Chased
Mounts, 15s; larger sizes, 20s, 2; s, and 30s.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, nicely Chased with prettv Red
Glass 12s 6d ; with Fluted Edges, l. s id ;
Double Jam, 255.
k A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE.—Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, 16s 6d • Chased as
above, 20s, 255, and 30s. Post free.
A. BAUNDERS.
BUTTER.—Pure Silver Electro-plated on
iVhite Metal, nicely chased, 8s 6d. Round, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALTS.—Silver-plated Stand, Colored Glass,
with Spoons, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s pair.
A. BAUNOERS.
ii'TTER.— Beautifully Chased and Orna-
leuted pure Silver, Electro-plated on hard
White Metal, 15s 6d. Large size, 20s.
Four o’clock TEA SET with Covers, pure Silver Electro plated on White
Metal, first-class English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Styles, £2, X 2 15s, £3, £3los, £4.
Ladies kindly call and see our Beautifully-stocked Showrooms.
A. BAUNDER3.
OAKE DISHES.—The very best finished pure
Silver Electro-plate, in various patterns.
20s, 22s 6d, 25a, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
A. S> UNDERS.
4 o’clock TEASPOONS and TONGS in Silk-Lined Case,
Embossed, 12s 6d. Extra Quality, 15s, 20s, 255.
The Silver-plate we guarantee to give every satisfaction.
In Pure Solid Silver, 6 Spoons only 255, with Tongs
30s, 355, £2, £2 10s.
t
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG CRUETS, pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, beautifully
Chased, 30s, 355, £2, and £2 10s.
Cheaper Style, 20s and 255.
Handsome and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOLDING BISCUITS.-Pure Silver Electro-
plated on White Metal, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Can be used for Cake or Sandwiches.
A. SAUNDERS.
4-bottle Lunch or Dinner CRUET, pure
Silver Electro-plated on hard White
Metal, 218. Similar Styles, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BlSCUlT.—Silver-
plated Rims and Lids, with
Enamelled Lining, 15s 6d ;
with Ornamented Fluted
Rims, 20s; Plain, with Shield
only, 12s 6d.
J3»’
Old Plate
Made
Equal
To New.
aw**!
!«
>
HSi :
vniiiiHili
“Just What Want!" t POO NS AND FORKS. A. SAUNDERS can fill that want with a First-Class, Reliable Article.
EXTRA STRONG. Guaranteed to give you every satisfaction.
A 1 QUALITY is the very Highest Standar.l Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 17s 6d half,
w ATT 4 T T^ Z -' n ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 7s 6d half-dozen. ’
B QUALITY is a Second Quality. Pure Silver Electro-plated on Hard White Metal. DINNER Spoons or Forks, 12s 6d half-dozen;
m JAEoqEKI Spoons or Forks, 10s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, 5s half-dozen.
SOLID WHITE NICKEL SILVER, Wear White throughout. A Splendid Knockabout Spoon to save the Better Article. DINNER
Spoons or Forks, Is half-dozen ; DESSERT Spoons or Forks, 3s half-dozen ; TEA Spoons, Is 6d half-dozen.
Packed and Sent post free to all parts of the World. Kindly send your Orders to A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Size BUTTER.—AII Metal, Pure
Silver-plated, beautifully chased, 20s.
Extra ornamented, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Makes Two Dishes, Pure Silver Electro-
plated on hard White Metal, 355. A Useful and Acceptable
Present. SHALL WE SEND YOU ONE ?
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUET (Breakfast).—Pure
Silver Electro-plated on Whit*
Metal, 10s 6d ; with 4 Bottles,
15s 6d and 17s 6d.
Makes a very nice present
Call and See our
Displayed Showrooms!
WHISKY FLASK.
Silver-plated Bot-
tom and Patent
Top, 10s 6d, 12a
6d, 16s, 20a, 25a.
A Warming Friend.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure
Silver-plated, 3s 6d. Simi-
lar Patterns, 2s 6d and 3s.
Wish Bone Design, 4s 6d,
5s 6d, and 6s 6d. Solid
Silver, similar to Pattern,
7s 6d, 10s, and 12s 6d.each.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIVES.—Two Silver-plated, with Pearl
Handles, in Silk-lined Case, 15s 6d. Other styles, 7s 6d,
10s 6d, and 12s 6d, in cases. JAM SPOONS.—Same
price ; without case, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d and
6s 6d each.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK.—Pure Silver Electro-plated
on Hard White Metal, 12s 6d. Other styles,
similar, 8s 6d, 10s, 15s, 20s.
m
A. SAUNDERB.
TEA POTS.—Pure Silver Electro-plated, pn White
. Metal, as pattern, 25s and 30s.
Different Pattern, 355, £2, £2 10s.
m
fm
!881
8$
tnn
fri
E 3
Ugh
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUETS.—First-class Pure Silver on
Hard White Metal, as pattern, with Shield,
£2 10s ; extra quality, £3, £3 10s, and £4.
Other patterns without Shields, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAMS.—Floral China, Pretty Design, with pure
Silver Electro-plated Stand,* 15s 6d ; double, 255.
Latest Designs.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT WATER KETTLE and STAND
can be used as a Teapot.—Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Beautifully
Chased and Ornamented, 355.
Embossed and Extra Chased, £2 £■»
10s. Other Styles, £3 and £3 10s. “
Handsome and Useful Article.
. SAUNDERS,
J"eweller & Silversmith
A BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.
815 George Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Station,
Sydney
XXatimat e m
Given.
OLD PLATS MAOS EQUAL TO 3XTEW.
Send Your Addresa.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in tlie World . . .
GEO. ROE & CO
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
A ustralanan Representatives,
82a Fitt Street, Sydney.
af
Before booking your Steamship
passage, write for Travellers.
Gazette,' and Sailing List with map’
THOS. COOK & SON,
4 Hunter-st., Sydney; 269 Collins-st., Melbourne.
E5H8351
-itmacg
t/\rv'\rs\r^n.
GrO TO HIBLL-
KiUI/AiV3i for Pi city Stamps, but
if you wane real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizateth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk strips
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33 /- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forma on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Gland.
pRSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion.
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society
S. Harvey, ltd.
London JJditc S.E
Gh
Important Announcement to our City and Country-
Constituents.
WBLTCR BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff,
ty Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale*
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bkadley & Co., 324 George-st
POLITICAL
POINTS
Everything points to the recrudescence of
sectarian rows. The Redwood affair at Sydney,
the Marist trouble in Maoriland, the Slattery row
at Kalgoorlie. The Sanguinary Shirt is out for
an airing. (
The S.A. police cast a block vote against
Kingston in the recent election, the reason given
being that he dredged S. A. prisons for evidence
against the detectives in the famous (the police
say infamous) inquiry.
Telegram recently received by Maoriland
Minister Carroll:
Another of your constituents drowned at Stewart’s
crossing, Nutaake, making the second in nine months.
What about the vote for the bridge ? Are you going to
wait for another victim ?
“Proposals for the reform of the Legis-
lative Council should emanate from the Council,”
says knight Cuthbert, one of the Victorian Fat-
men. Even Bill Sikes never had the impudence
to suggest to the judge that he should fix his own
sentence.
A friendly letter sent by a Sydney social-
ist to Ben Tillett in London, last week, regretfully
states that the latter’s acceptance of the post of
paid advocate of emigration to Queensland
is the blackest political scandal Australian Social-
ism has had to bear.
Alfred Deakin has yielded to the prayerful
solicitations of Ballarat and wall offer that con-
stituency his services in the Federal Parliament.
Ballarat is a safe seat for Deakin if the miners do
not buck at his pious monkeying with the secular
system of the State schools.
There is room for speculation as to whether
Queen Victoria will, in the official proclamation
of the Australian Commonwealth, be styled Em-
press, in the general sense—thus enlarging her
Indian style and title so as to cover all British
possessions and dependencies.
In Maoriland the Government has now
been brought within the operation of the Concilia-
tion and Arbitration Act. and its employes can
bring it before the Arbitration Court on wage and
other disputes, just as they can any other em-
ployer. Which is strictly fair.
THE FORCE OF GRAVITY.
THE INDIGNANT MALE: “Hang it; I put a £5
note on, the brute at 10 to 1, and it didn’t
come off.”
THE FAIR FEMALE (who hasn’t the least idea
what it all means but wants to show an “ in-
telligent interest”): “How strange l Do. you
know, I once put half-a-crown on a horse at
a quarter past six, but it fell off as soon as
the horse moved. I supposed you gummed
your note on?”
“ Meoro ” : Surely the objects covered by
every Old Age Pension system should include
provision for the infirm of whatever age. Surely
a blind man or woman is more helpless than one
of, say, 65 who has good eyesight, and nothing
but approaching age to complain of.
Melb. Argus thinks perhaps it would be
best to have Rudyard Kipling to grind out that
Australian national ode: “We might get from
him a poem worthy to rank with the ‘Reces-
sional.’” Of course! Australian poetry should
come from ’Ome since all our sentiments are made
to measure in London.
Despite Premier Lyne’s eulogy of Sydney
Ragged School, it is a disgrace to the country,
and will cast a social stigma for life upon those
who attend it. N.S.W., which has tons of money
for Jingoistic expeditions, should be able to pro-
vide for the education of all poor children in the
regular State schools.
Of the eight members of N.S.W. Leg.
Council who stood out against any amicable
settlement of the deadlock with the Assembly
over the Sydney Corporation Bill, five were
lawyers. One of them, however, H. C. Dangar, has
never practised. Of the 38 who voted for peace,
three were lawyers.
S. A. constitutional authorities maintain
that the right to dissolve Parliament in the event
of the Leg. Council again rejecting Household
Suffrage still exists, and Kingston claims to have
Holder’s pledge that the power will be exercised.
Whereat there is much fluttering in Tory dove-
cotes. But is Holder strong enough ?
Freetrader Murray Smith has good reasons
for not seeking re-election. The Argus’s white- .
headed boy knows perfectly well that to seek re-
election at Haw-Hawthorn would mean ignomini-
ous defeat. Swinburne, travelling with a second-
class Tory ticket, has Smithite support, yet his is
practically a Liberal programme. Nevertheless he
is no certainty.
Kingston is stiffening up the Holder
Ministers to insist on a real democratic basis of
State Constitutional reform, and they have almost
made up their minds to claim a dissolution if the
Assembly refuses to pass the Popular Convention
Bill. Holder, however, is very weak when office
and pay are in the balance, and his colleagues are
none of them too strong.
Dear Bulletin. —The question of the
morality of dual membership (State and Common-
wealth Parliaments) admits of no discussion.
Whatever law the beneficiaries may pass dealing
with the matter is of. little consequence. The
people will decide. To express the issue in the
concrete : I havte hitherto voted for Mr. Dugald
Thomson, and at the moment have no reason for
transferring "my allegiance. But if the member
for Warringah puts up for the Federal district of
Kuringgai without first resigning from his present
seat I will vote against him, irrespective of the
personality of his opponent. There are others. —
Kuringgai.
An interesting point in N.S.W. municipal
law was raised and decided lately—
though so far only by a P.M. An
elector was entitled to four votes —
two for his house and two for his
shop. He recorded the former two,
went away, returned and recorded the
other two. The Act says it is unlaw-
ful to vote a second time. Another
section says it is a misdemeanor to
vote a second time. Held that it
was merely “ unlawful ” to vote a
second time when one had not pre-
viously exhausted all one’s votes ; but
that it was a “ misdemeanor ” to vote
a second time when one had already
used up one’s votes. But doesn’t the
statute simply mean that it is unlawful
to use the same vote a second time ? If
it is unlawful in any case to. vote a
second time The Bulletin will have
every plural-vote Fatman run in at
next municipal election. The man
with two votes who votes a second
time without leaving the booth must
be quite as unlawful as the one who
votes a second time with a spell be-
ween.
In Westralia a man can still be
gaoled for several years for being a
member of a trades-union, the old law
of George IV. to-that effect being yet
in force in Groperland. Even W.A.
moves, however, and a measure for
throwing George IV. overboard is now
under consideration.
Mentioned in N.S.W Assembly,
the other day that it will cost £650,000
to convert Sydney’s lumbersome steam
trams into an electric system. This
means, probably, that almost the
same amount of old material, bought
out of loan moneys and called “ per-
manent and reproductive works,” goes
into the scrap-heap. Therefore, in
common honesty, the £650,000 which
is borrowed to make the alteration
should be repaid out of the tramway
earnings, in order that there will still
be £lOO worth of working and profit-
earning tram to show for every £lOO
borrowed. The Bulletin bags to
draw Premier Lyne’s attention to this matter with
a loud crash. .
Ex-Premier Nelson, though President of
Queensland Leg. Council, has practically returned
to private life. It was late in life that politics
seized him. He was 48 when he stood for his first
election. Then with a rush he seized Ministerial
office, wore out Morehead, Griffith, and M‘ll-
- grasped the Premiership, and after a
term of political service which leaves most men
with an expectation to be soon called to a port-
folio, he had climbed all the available heights and
realised that he was tired. Politics now no more
excite him than they did in his early manhood.
“ ANYWAY , IT WAS WORTHY OF
NOT I GET
NODDER : “ The body of poor old Jones was
washed ashore this morning. Sad, isn’t it?”
VICTIM: “ Yes. Oh, how did it all happen?”
NODDER: “He had a bath!”
“Vellum”: Be quotation (8., 22/9/ , 00)
anent the reservation, in land-tities, of Victorian
lands required for railways or other public pur-
poses. Same reservation appears also in most
N.S.W. Crown grants, but is never enforced. By
the way, many grants of land in the backblocks,
many miles from water of any kind, contain a rc-
servation to the Crown of all land within 100 ft.
of high-water mark !
The comparatively volatile Saclise told his
, ■ IT ' T ~ .
amenta ,ie brethren in Vie Leg. Council that
he had endeavored from the heart to give the
women a vote, but his wretched head would not
allow him. Sachse doesn t even know that his
brains are in bis feet, which led him into the wrong
lobby to vote. When his head goes palpably
wrong Sachse will thmk he is suffermg from gout
in the big toe. They all do.
Up t.o a week ago Jimmy and Joe Gover-
nor had 80 different crimes charged against them,
and the expenses of the pursuit were mounting up
so gaily that it is about time some N.S. Wales
M.P. asked if they are going to be paid out of
revenue or charged to loans. Jimmy and Joe,
regarded as “permanent and reproductive works”
would be no worse than many other things that
have gone into the same category.
Salisbury does well to get his general elec-
tion over before the hard English winter begins.
The war has cost over £80,000,000 in money alone,
even so far; and already prices for coal, bread, and
rents have risen .abnormally in the home of Free-
trade ; also, the rise is general and increasing,
By-and-by, when Tommy Atkins comes home and
spreads* promiscuously his private opinion of Joe
Chamberlain, Rhodes and the War Office, the tide
will turn with a vengeance.
Whilst South'Australia has spent t‘50,000
, r, ~ R „
m freeing tie oppressed Outlanders of the
Transvaal, and, m the process, sacrificed many
valuable lives, there are 100,000 Outlanders m
S. Australia itself who are without avote for the
Council, although they possess the privilege for
the Senate of the Commonwealth. It is suggested
that the oppressed slaves in S.A. should appeal to
Germany or Russia to send out contingents to free
them from the Boer oligarchy which at present
bosses S.A. Leg. Council.
« religiou^hiag
agitation .
The ideal system would he one in which the children
learned just what the parents wished them to earn.
1 hat is to say, the system by which the young
Thug learnt nothing hut Thuggee—the
under which Bill Sikes, jun., learned the business
of Bill Sikes, sen., exclusively—tho, system under
which no nation could possibly emerge from the
barbarism of its ancestry, would be an ideal
system. And the organ advocating such eternal
stagnation calls itself Progress !
t> • t i i a. •- i i
i-i Vi? IIU -ri IHS aP u° U u C
that he will not bring m a Bill limiting the hold-
mg of seats to one Legislature during the life of
the present Parliament. Therefore the sitting
members of N.S. V. Assembly will have a tre-
mendous advantage over outside candidates m
battling for seats m the Federal Parliament (more
especially the Senate), as the present M’s.L.A.
will of course each have a free railway-pass to
assist them m their canvassing. Premier Lyne is
about the only Premier that has not dared to
tackle his Assembly over this question.
During a recent desultory debate in
M.L. House of Representatives on Australian
Federation, Premier Seddon claimed that
Maoriland statesmen had given Australia the
cue to establish the Commonwealth by the
abolition of the provinces in 1870. As if
there was the slightest analogy between the
complete erasure from themap of a few paltry
districts called provinces, and the federation
(not abolition) of five great States ! Seddon
will doubtless claim next that Maoriland
showed Chamberlain how to deal with the
Transvaal and Free State. In justice to
him,it should be stated that he spoke at
an early hour of the morning and hadn’t
been to bed. It should also be added
that the House laughed consumedly at
his grandiloquent and palpably pre-
posterous assertion.
In Melbourne a commission of
parsons “representing” certain sects
has been once more inquiring into
the question of Bible-reading in
State schools, with the view of
making a fuss at forthcoming
general election. There is no evi-
dence that said parsons represent
anybody ; they have no definite
“mandate”; nobody elected them
to discuss the matter ; so their re-
port will merely express their
individual views. If you could
get a commission of duly-elected
persons representing every creed,
every shade of creed, and the
mass of heathens outside the
creeds, and it presented a fairly
unanimous report, then it might be
worth while for Yic. Govt, to follow S. A.’s
example and settle the dispute by plebis-
cite. But you can order The Bulletin’s
ascension-robe when tfiat report arrives.
Some-Men-One-Yote is the Boodle-
wraithian motto. Two years ago some 20
miners (suspected of Radical opinions) at
Duck Creek, near Eulo, N.-W. Q., were
struck off the roll owing to the authorities
conveniently shunting that place into another
electorate. Now they are again disqualified
for murky reasons, the chief one being that they
are not where they are. Their ordy hope now
seems to be to live forcibly with the local registrar
for six months.
Ex-Agent-General Playford (and not
Kingston) is the author of the suggestion to elect
a Popular Convention to settle the changes in the
S.A. Constitution consequent upon the coming of
Federation. An unholy alliance between the
Opposition and the country party threatens to
wreck the scheme in S.A., but it has given a lead
to some of the other provinces. Probably in
the end S.A. Assembly will adopt Grainger’s
amendment that the Convention consist of the-
Council and Assembly—as at present constituted
—sitting together.
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wise made a
most ill-judged attack on G. H. Reid for appearing
as a speaker at the Protestant meeting held by the
Evangelical Council. Wise’s sentiments that
politicians should not make political capital out
of sectarian brawls are no doubt excellent. But
the wily Reid flattened out his antagonist by
pointing out that one of Wise’s own colleagues in
the Ministry moved the very motions which he
(Reid) seconded, and that a second Cabinet
Minister was sitting on the platform !
The chief reason one prominent N.S.W.
politician gives for preferring an imported State
Governor to a local one is that with an imported
one there would be a natural bi’idge between the
Gov.-General and the peop'e. A local man
would, he says, not serve this purpose, and the
Gov. -General, in trying to reach the people,
might fall into the wet. But the Duke of Argyll,
then Lome, when he went as Gov.-General to
Canada, was provided with no such bridge. The
provincial Governors were all local men.
Extract from Maoriland trooper’s letter
published in Dannevirke (M.L.) paper :
The Canadians got 25 Boers in a corner, and they
wanted to surrender, but no notice was taken of them
and they were shot down.
Surely it is time some one fell on the editor who
publishes butcher-yarns like this about British
soldiers to undermine the principles of this
country. If you want to know how horrible it is
—well, think of the furore, if it was reported that
the Boers slaughtered 25 cornered British soldiers
who offered to surrender !
Kingston, in his active and brilliant cam-
paign for the Central district of S.A. Leg. Council,
made Household Suffrage, early closing, closer
settlement, and workmen’s compensation the main
planks of his platform. These are the four reform
measures which were thrown out by the Leg.
Council Tory majority last session. Although lie
stood against the wishes of his friends, Kingston
has done Radicalism in S.A. grand service, in that
his candidature—splendidly successful as it was—
has served to revive the Democratic party, which
had recently, through the absence of a leader,
become almost impotent.
The allegedly great and rich Great Western
(Tasmania) land-grant railway syndicate, which
has been going to build a railway worth about
£600,000 for five years past, lately received notice
from a tired and angry Government that it must
really make a start or go out of the business. So
the syndicate made a herculean effort and an-
nounced that it had really floated a co. at last
with £20,000 cash actually available. Twenty
thousand ! Enough to pay for some preliminary
expenses and build about three miles of line.
Later, being again worried by the Government,
it announced that £2OOO (enough to build about
half-a-mile of line) was actually coming out, and
the rest would follow. Later still it reported that
the £2OOO had been unaccountably delayed. Last
of all, it was going to start work immediately.
There is a lot of joy in the private land-grant rail-
way syndicate biz.


N OTIC E
THERE have been several Melbourne enquiries
for framed copies of Alf. Vincent’s double-
page picture, “On the Melbourne Block, 1899,”
published in The Bulletin of Dec. 16th last.
The etching, specially printed on 4-sheet card-
board and suitably mounted and framed, can now
be ordered from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch
(Melb.) and The Bulletin Office, Sydney. Each
etching bears the artist’s signature, and the price
is Half-a-Guinea, to cover the cost of framing.
A poor old woman lying on the steps of a
Melb. _ Salvarmy Refuge, one recent night, was
taken in and put to bed. This unusual charity,
in place of Melbourne’s customary course of lock-
up and gaol and more gaol, gave the ancient such
a shock that she was found dead in the morning.
When £550,000 in gold was recently
shipped in Sydney for ’Frisco, The Bulletin
pointed out that the sending of such an amount
of treasure over such long lonely sea-stretches in
one bottom was a risk which might be taken
predatory advantage of. And last week the
Alameda took away £BOO,OOO ! Gold-shippers
have only thus to keep on increasing the stake to
make the modern buccaneer a certainty.
The' Acetylene Miners’ Lamps, introduced by
the Acetylene Gas Co. of Australia, Ltd., have proved a
great success and are now largely used in the mines
throughout the colony. The company has lately been
rushed with orders for lighting up gold-mining dredges
Owing to the many advantages offered by the light for
that purpose. It would be well for mine and dredge
owners to ascertain full information as to cost, etc., from
the Head Office of the Company, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
There have been many recent trials con-
nected with various unnecessary infants, “ ad-
ministering drugs for the purpose of” &c., and
Judges (also John Norton) have made tearful
remarks on the sinfulness of “ prevention.” Yet
N.S.W. Public Service authorities, as per fol-
lowing recent advt., offers a premium for this
very offence, and the applicants must fully
understand that an “accident” entails dis-
missal :
FRIDAY, 31st August, 1900.
MANAGER OF A LABOR DEPOT AND REFUGE
(General Division), salary £lOO per annum, with
Quarters, rations, fuel, and light. Candidates must
be married (without encumbrance), of not more
than 40 years of age, with an experience of Farming
and capable of controlling men. Suitable candi-
dates in the Public Service will have the first con-
sideration.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
.Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London,*
Cable in last week’s Australian dailies :
A ‘ London, September 16.
It is decided that a representative number of Cape,
Canadian and Australian officers and men shall be sent
to England with the earliest batch of the Imperial army
and shall be for a time the nation’s guests. Her Majesty
the Queen says she hopes to personally inspect her brave
colonial troops, and to present them with colors com-
memorative of the distinguished part they have borne in
the arduous South African campaign.
And now the other side of the picture. From
London Morning Leader
A number of Canadian invalids from South Africa left
Liverpool on Thursday by the Parisian on their return
home.
Before sailing they expressed disappointment at their
neglect b,y the military authorities in Liverpool.
They said that having experienced the life of British
soldiers under British officers in a difficult campaign
they are resolved to stay at home and mind their Own
business in the future.
They were resolved to lay the whole facts of their case
before the three Canadian Ministers who were also on
board the Parisian.
A Leader representative had a talk with one of the
smartest of them, Private Victor W. Odium, No. 7,223 of
the first contingent, at the Soldiers’ Home in Bucking-
ham-palaCe-road. “
, He reached England from the front on July 5 with
thirty-five to forty of his comrades, all invalided. Thev
spent a little time at Netley and thence were ordered to
fort Brocklehurst. But they were amazed to be turned
adrift on a furlough of two months, each man receiving a
sum °f £1 and the information—conveyed in polite
official terms—that he must shift for himself for eight
weeks and that no one cared where he went or what hap-
pened to him.
We have,done everything we could with, everybodi
who we thought could help us. We’ve written to Lort
otrathcona and he has done his level best—even to th<
extent of calling at the War Office half a dozen times in i
single day.
“No reason is given us—we can’t obtain one. Most o
us are fellows who would be earning a good living ir
Canada and making money. To us this life of idleness ii
a «unbearable. We are just rotting away.”
Remember that there are 102 of us who have, like
myself, signed the list to be allowed to go home and here
W a nuisance to ourselves and everybody around us
~ r,T h ?P the Canadian people will think when they heai
it I’d rather not say.”
What will the Canadian people think? Prob-
ably-—like the Australians—they are thinirinp
hard already!
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
26 of this issue.*
Agent-General Henry Copeland is, accord-
ing to talk, the latest Australian aspirant to a seat
in the British Commons.
USE WEBBER’S
VITADATIO
FOR YOUR HEALTH.
There is only one “ Vitadatio ” in the world,
and that is “Webber’s.” You cannot afford to
play with your health, so be sure you get the
Genuine Article.
LADIES !
VITADATIO is your Friend.
Try VITADATIO and Live.
VITADATIO IS A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Oastlemaine-street, Yarraville,
Victoria, J uly 7, 1899.
Mr. Palmer.
Sir, —Words cannot express my gratitude to you for
what your wonderful herbal remedy, VITADATIO, has
done for me. For years I have not known what health
was, and at times “ life was just a misery.” Doctors and
Herbalists were in vain, and I was told there was “no cure "
for my complaint. Hoping that some other poor sufferer
may benefit by this, I give you leave to use it as you like.
Anyone wishing to know further can do so by writing to
me.—l remain, E. SPEAR.
This testimonial is one of the many that I have received
from ladies, who have proved the efficacy of this great
herbal remedy. , Ladies, I advise you to call and consult
with Dr. WHITE, the eminent Lady Doctor, Free of
Charge.—Yours, for health, S. A PALMER.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s 6d; Small Size, 3s 3d.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s 3d.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
V India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
S3" ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
Ocean
A ccident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Emp. Liability.
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
Directors: W. M‘Millan, A. W. Meeks, Sydney* L. A
Jessop, Adelaide. ’
Branch Managers : Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide. W.
N. M Farlane ; Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
ALLEN, General Manager for Australasia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
JAMES GALWAY,
C[ON of RICHARD GALWAY and MAR
GAREI RILEY, who was born while his
parents were living on a farm belonging to a
MRS. LYNDON, situated about fifty miles from
GOULBURN, NEW SOUTH WALES, is
requested to communicate at once with the
undersigned from whom he will hear of something
greatly to his advantage.
ANYONE giving information to the under-
signed as to the whereabouts of the above-named
JAMES GALWAY will be rewarded.
STRINGER & CRESSWELL,
Barristers and Solicitors,
A.M.P. Buildings,
Cathedral Square,
Christchurch, NEW ZEALAND.
JAMES AUGUSTUS PARKER and BENJAMIN WALTER
COXHEAD, late of Bank of New South Wales, Thorn-
borough, communicate with Mrs. A. E. FREEMAN
Thornborough, North Queensland.
RECORD ORDER for TYPEWRITERS
121
..YOSTS
This order has just been, given by
Her Majesty’s Government for
Yost Typewriters, after the famous
machine had been thoroughly
tested alongside other makes.
jet^ssSi
This is the Clearest Proof of the Sterling 1 Value of the Yost Typewriter.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
114 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane: Webster & Co. ; Adelaide: Reeves & Co.; Launceston : Hedley Button.
Agents also for the NEW CENTURY and DENSMORE.
MERCHANTS!
READ
MARK
LEARA
“ I may say that the Register is giving
me every satisfaction, and the system of dis-
counts on cash purchases is much appreciated
by my customers, cash sales having increased
materially since using the Register.”
T. PARKIN, Storekeeper, Corowa, N.S.W.
“ I have had the Cash Register for nearly
twelve months, and am pleased with it. It
fulfils every expectation I had regarding it.”
PAUL WILKINSON, Chemist,
Maryborough, Vie.
“ We are pleased to inform you that the
two National Cash Registers are doing their
work splendidly. They are most accurate,
and the more we use them the better we like
them. We feel quite sure their merits have
only to be known to insure their adoption by
every up-to-date business man.”
CAMPBELL BROS. <Ss CO., Butchers,
Toowoomba, Q.
INWARDLY DIGEST!
AND
af
Be UP-TO-DATE, or you will
GO BEHIND.
Write for particulars and Price List (from
£5 up) of tne
NATIONAL
Cash Register
TO
HEAD AUSTRALASIAN OFFICE:
333 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
W. A. LINCHAM, General Manager.
BBNVARE OF I.ViITATIOrVig.
Dunlop Tyres
■ rh.v
-r.tr :*:,s .V■; .j. Hark-g£»- IHH
HMST IN im FOREMOST.EVER SINCE.!
m
Worth
201 the JS
is our
mm
sag
m
12 Months’ Guarantee on Roadster
Beware of
Imitations.
Duniqp Tyres
None Genuine
without
Trade Mark.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUST. LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Christchurch, NJZ.
IiIWIIOJu
fRES
FOR
COMFORT, SPEED & DURABILITY.
THE DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. OF AUS. LTD.,
150 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Taken 111 In The Street.
On the 26th of January, 1898, a young lady,
passing through Burton Street, in Darlinghurst,
was suddenly taken ill. Fortunately, she was
seen by the people of a house near by, who con-
ducted her within doors, administered a stimu-
lant, and cared for her untill she was able to go
home.
This you may say, was hardly an incident
worth putting in print. That depends on what
it signified. To a besieged and starving garrison
the sound of a distant bugle is a matter to make
the heart jump.
On arriving at her house, we are sorry to say,
the young lady had a second seizure, and a doctor
was at once called in.
No, it was not the nerves, or a rush of blood to
the head ; the symptoms pointed to a thoroughly
disordered state of indigestion; ulcerated
stomach, probably. So spoke the medical man,
after a careful diagnosis.
Such being the doctor’s opinion, he prescribed
all the lines suggested by the facts. The sequel
proved him right, albeit his treatment had but
little beneficial effect. For this he is not to be
blamed, as there are few diseased conditions more
difficult to correct than the one he met with in
this instance. Many physicians decline to touch
such cases—sending the sufferers to hospitals.
In a letter dated August 20th, 1899, the young
lady describes the events alluded to here, and
informs us as to the final result.
“ It was early in 1897,” she says, “ that my
health, previously good, began to fail. In spite of
all we could do, I got worse, and in the middle of
that year my state was dreadful. Not only was
my appetite wholly destroyed, I abhorred the
very siyht of food. From the most savoury and
attractive meals" that could be put on the table I
turned away in disgust.
“That this was unnatural and alarming, of
course, I realised ; but what could be done ?
Hardly a day passed without my suffering agony
with a twisting, griping, gnawing feeling in the
stomach.
“ The pleasure and comfort went out of my life
as completely as the sparkle vanishes from a lake
on a cloudy day.
“At length I acted on my mother’s urgent
and repeated advice, and began the use Mother
Seigel’s Syrup. She said it had wrought a won-
derful cure on her ; and why should it not on me ?
So I said yes, and went for it. Before I had
taken four bottles the trouble passed away, and I
have been a strong, healthy girl ever since—
and that is now eighteen months,” Maud
McGuinness, 158, Burton Street, Darlinghurst,
Sydney, N.S.W.*
IV
jy
*
9
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modern conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A.. QXJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
“DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabetli-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Hollow Ground
poPPßazq^
af
af
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLADES
(N BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale : OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON. V.
hhhhhhhhhhhhhh hhiihhhhhhhh
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
II
H
H
H
II
II
II
II
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
II
II
H
H
II
H
II
H
H
II
II
H
H
H
O. Gr. HEA-TTE’S
Display of
Spring: & Summer Millinery
and Dress Fabrics
is the
• SHOW OF THE SEASON •
Ladies will find Hatte’s Show Booms a
palace of enchantment, surpassing any-
thing of the kind to be seen elsewhere.
The Millinery is directly imported from
the best houses of Paris and London ; and
the Dress Fabrics have been most care-
fully selected by Hatte’s home buyers
from the leading manufacturers of
England, the Continent, and America.
m" HATTE’S TAILORING DEPARTMENT
has achieved deserved renown. The New
Season’s Goods are just opened, and are
most beautiful.
For ordinary wear, you can desire
nothing better than one of his
TWO GUINEA SUITS to Measure
(including extra pair of trousers). You
have a big range of materials for selec-
tions ; the garments are admirably cut
and beautifully finished.
If you cannot pay a visit, write for
Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms
(free) ; and your orders will be faithfully
and satisfactorily executed.
In every department you will save at
least 30 per cent, by patronising
C. <3-_ 3E3C A.TT E,
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
II
II
H
H
II
H
H
H
II
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
lIHHrfIIHHH H H HIIHHHHHHHHHHHHH
A M USJHHI ENT for OLD and I O UNO. yQ
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Kiondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
your character, very superior, for parlor entertainments),
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
instructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s t 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
X
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.
Government Notices.
Postal and Electric Telegraph Dept.,
General Post Office,
Sydney, 10th September, 1900.
rpENDERS are invited for the performance, from the Ist
January next, .of a large number of Mail Services
throughout the Colony, and will be received at the Gene-
ral Post Office up to noon on Monday, the 15th October
next. Tenders must be addressed to the Deputy Post-
master-General, Sydney, and endorsed “Tender for Con-
veyance of Mails.” For full particulars see Government
Gazette, a file of which is kept at every Post Office in the
Colony.
7a 18
W. P. CRICK.
Beanie’s Bronchitis Core.
the famous remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma.to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWA-RE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEAKNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Branch Depot :
Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
DAPTO (Lake
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
near SYDNEY,
SMELTERS,
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OB'
FINE SILVER.
4. "
mm
MAKERS OF
S. Co, of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILLAWAERA”
.. BRAND OF. . -
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS. °
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO NSW • or Martin Pi ice SYDNEY '
* “ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
Infants
9
FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
njoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BERGER’S FOOD is said in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by «
its excellence, established a
-reputation ol its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
| AND
the aged.
Extract from Melb. Argus
The watch which the prisoner was seen to throw over a
fence during his pursuit by the constable was afterwards
picked up, and proved to be a gold brooch.
An exaggerated idea of the Chinese popu-
lation of the N. Territory prevails if the Govt,
figures are correct. The latest official report is
that there are 1620 Europeans and 2180 Chinese,
instead of the proportion of four or five Chinese to
one European often talked and written about.
A remarkable instance of “ savee ” on the
part of a five-year-old M.L. child is reported from
Southland. A bush settler’s wife in weak health
had been left in the house with her one youngster.
1 he mother was sitting near the big open fireplace
with the usual log blazing, when she fainted, and
fell with one arm in the flames. The five-year-old
daughter rushed to her assistance. Being unable
to move her, she hastily pulled the arm out of the
fire and threw the day’s supply of well-water on to
the log, putting it out. Then she ran into the
bush m search of her father, who got home in time
to help the mother out of danger.
“B. and S.” . “People interested in
scientific research are going to ask Vic. Govt, to
pay the expenses of Prof. Baldwin Spencer to the
Northern Territory. When he went to study
S. A. blackfellows he paid his own expenses. This
trip will cost him £l5O0 —£500 to pay a substitute
to do his work at the shop, and £lOOO for the
journey and incidentals. It really ought not to be
necessary to bring pressure to bear for such an
object.” But how much did Prof. Spencer make
out of his last-trip book—in cash and kudos ?
Surely he paid wages and expenses. If he gets a
Govt, grant, the Govt, ought to get at least some
of the profit of his works.
An old legend retold :
Once, not so many years ago, a man in Maoriland
started a new religion. He got a goodly number of fol-
lowers. He said the Lord had confided to him that, on a
certain midnight, He would raise him and his disciples to
celestial glory from the summit of a hill distinctly speci-
fied. A condition of the contract was that they should
all be dressed absolutely in white. At last the night
arrived. The chosen ones ascended tho hill in view of
many scoffers, whom the police superintended. As the
eventful moment approached the excitement on the hill-
top became intense. The air teemed with supplications
pitched in every conceivable key. White-robed figures
extended their arms upwards and let their hair down.
“ What would happen ? ” asked the crowd below, which
had at last become spell-bound and a bit uneasy. Twelve
o’clock arrived. One frantic outburst from the top of the
hill and then confusion. A calf that had been browsing
or slumbering amongst the shrubbery rose up on the
stroke of 12 and cried out with a mighty voice, “ Baa !
aa ! aah !!! ” The worshippers, then in the last stage of
nerve-tension, leaped wildly in the air when they heard
this low remark ; then they took something or other for
granted and hurled themselves as one man and woman
down the hillside. The crowd below, seeing a wall of
white-robed figures bearing down on them, became
panic-stricken, decided that the Devil had appeared, and
fled the scene. When the rush was stayed the leader of
the sect said that the Lord had surely come, but did not
exalt them eternally because someone had violated
the rule of dress. He asked in a terrible voice who it
was had done this thing. After a while a weeping
damsel lifted up her dress and showed a black garter. It
was explained to her for about four hours, till she was
nearly dead, that she had wrecked the greatest Spiritual
Manifestation in all history. Then the sect dissolved.
Yic. Leg. Council used to be familiarly
known as “the Bed Chamber.” It is a pity the
title was dropped—Wrixon would make such an
excellent Jille de chambre.
A woman of Birmingham was supposed to
be suffering from pleurisy, but on examination was
found to have a rib broken. And on cross-examin-
ation she “supposed that her young man must
have done it ” —in saying good-night.


Herr RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long 1 standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
AI.FAi.INE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, a«d
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAY FREE.
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
Sent Post Free
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
f
t.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
■HE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
■ • • WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSIXIUSSen.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills— A Wonder-
ful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders—A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders —Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets,' Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil —Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes— Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBA NE : 160 Queen-street (near Creek-street)*
MELBO(J RK E ; 11> O Bourke-street (opp. Eastern Markets).
ADELAIDE ; 151 Bundle-street (near York Hotel).
N.Z., WELLIN GTON : 01 Lambton Quay.
rJEUTH : Hay-street (opposite Wiedenbach’s).
KALGOOKLIE : Hannan-street (next Lindell’s).
EOULJJEIi CITY ; Piesse-street.
Eli E MA J\'Vlj ]<] ; Henry-street.
One of the most costly and magnificent
works on meteorology yet issued is the “Atlas of
Meteorology,” just published by Constable and
Co., of Westminster, England. It contains over
400 maps and diagrams, and is got up regardless
of expense. The feature which will interest the
cornstalk community most is that the only Aus-
tralian scientists who appear among the contribu-
tors both belong to Sydney Observatory—Govt.
Astronomer Russell and Mr. H. C. Hunt. Out of
33 pages of letterpress on the subject of the world’s
weather they occupy about a page-and-a-half
between them, so evidently this outlying corner
of the globe makes a larger figure in science than
it was aware of, and its prophets have some honor
outside their own country.
“ Trotter ” to The Bulletin re the value
of life in China :—
In ’84 and ’85 I was in Amoy employed in the Imperial
Maritime Customs, and can corroborate “Malle” (B.,
18/8/’00) re the way coolies are shipped to Singapore. The
steamers of a Dutch line running- from Amoy to the
Sunda Islands’(and chartered by Chinese, who super-
vised the loading and unloading—the officers having
nothing to do with that part of the business) used
to carry from 800 to 1000 coolies every trip. The
number—through judicious palm-greasing—was always
much over the legal maximum, but the wretches were
run-in like sheep at such a pace that it was impossible to
keep proper tally. By the way, during the ’85 Franco-
Chinese war, the Chinese were fortifying Formosa,, and
bought an old American gunboat to run the blockade
between Amoy and that island. The captain (a Greek),
mate, and myself (second mate), with three white engi-
neers and a Chinese crew, ran this hooker, which leaked
so that the pumps were going day and night. Her speed
was only seven knots, yet we made seven trips before
being collared, and each trip we carried about 800 coolies
for soldiers—men pressed from the back country, who had
never seen a gun or a ship. Our hold was full of cast-off
European weapons, and the strong-room always held
50,000 to 60,000dol. in silver. However, one day a French
frigate dropped across us, and the moment she fired a
shot over our bows, fully two-thirds of the Chows jumped
overboard and were drowned ; no one tried to save them.
The French gave us a trip to Faigon, and made a hulk out
of the craft
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
rtilii Wounds (hat Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
loundtd with inflammation and swollen that when you
m e s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
Sioii / If SO, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
ler ’?, ps ynr !V, iecs arc 6Wollen - ‘he joints being
mat i i ! th P Sam ? Wlth , tl,e ankles, round which the skin
i or "iere may be wounds ; the disease
wall! v d to ccn ‘ ln »e Will deprive you of the power to
„ a You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
01 J rr 11 b i l ‘i‘ ‘o amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
Other. * d , o '-' ‘ say 1 erha P s ; but I WILL. Because
otneis have fai.ed is no reason for not now being cured
k-Ciia at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PiLI.S,
wiiich are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs'
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, lumours Abscesses; Sore Throat, Bronchitis
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists Store*’
Cl BERT ’ I ? rl ' i ! in ' Mid. per b,)X. Prepared by
At BERi 73, parringdon-street London. England
Agents ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers stiould
look for the.registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gieeu label on each box. (Regd. copyright). 1 P °“ a
Medical.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
fa
MEDICATOR.
/'"'tATABRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs,Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by . mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non>e Catarrh CGre Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC
OINTMENT
Is unequalled as a remedy for Chafed Skin, Piles,
Cuts, Sore Eyes, Chapped Hands, Earache, Neuralgic
and Rheumatic Pains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ail-
ments generally.
LARGE POTS, Is. each.
(English Rate.)
At Chemists, Stores, etc.
F. C. CALVERT & COMPY.,
MANCHESTER.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
IHDIAn CIGARETTES
Difßoult.v in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness anri Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AD LT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists
Dr. Boxwell’s
PILLS.
IVT ON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, always effep
\ JIVE. a Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense
and Anguish hy affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or caii be sent anywhere Price
5/6 per box. (BsT" Purchasers can rely on the fact that
thess Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr
Boxwell having lieen for'years Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Druggists,
292 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
rHLOROPYNE.
* :
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BEOHCHITIS,
DIABEHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, X should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
fdsf
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
It EL TS and
A RELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a sleadv sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.— Before purchasing, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), yivinir
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency-
-63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
o°
Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor:- STEPHEN GREEN,
210 Lambeth Ed., London, S.E.
Those suffering- from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY
for my invaluable little pamphlet
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
y administering
EUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY'
0r271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
'J'HESE Famous Pills are now universally used throusrh-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deietenous drugs, and they can always be relied onto
afford immediate relief. Price, sent polled 5s 6 d
Wrl <* t° A. < C. Co., 539 Elizabeth-street North'
Af e iK° Urne ' ,^ rs - J°hn Wood, Bendigo-street Prahran’
Melb. says : ‘ Mrs. Walshe’s Tansy Pills gave me imme-
friVH rehef > although I had during two months previous
tiled all sorts of remedies without success.”
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
ki
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
inventor op Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
rhi'^J > - est o for 3,1 Wo “nds and Skin Diseases
Sore U 1^ ed mJSpSS
use or. ROBERTS’
alterative pills,
D?seases niP Prirf ° f ‘'la blo ° d - Invaluable for Skin
Stores PnCes IS ' licb and *• 9d. each of all Drug
Sole Makers: BEACh¥barnicoTT Ltd
BRIDPORT, England. ’
ECO
DEAF
5033
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
[Completely overcome Deafness
; in<l J lkad Noises, no mntter of
'tow long standing. Are the same
tu 1 le ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Wo n months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address— A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES K
Address -L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne


PLEASURE in your Bicycle riding depends on
the Bicycle. There never has been any question
about the EASY RUNNING MASSEY - HARRIS.
lt has always given satisfaction.
Factories Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
* oonf.oA 1 f£ e l7 Me hou T rle ' Sydney; Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free en application.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 385 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
SYDNEY
In Disease’s Web.
The following is the praise of A. Mackenzie,
No. 4, Knight-street, Williamstown, Vic.
“ For over a year I have suffered from indigestion
and kidney complaint; the latter used to affect
me across the small of the back, causing me great
{ain and inconvenience. Seeing Dr. Morse’s
ndian Root Pills advertised, I decided to give
them a trial, and the results are highly satis-
factory. After using them the pain disappeared.
I used also to suffer slightly from eczema, but
since taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills that
has entirely vanished. I find the Pills a gentle
purgative and very searching, and can advise any-
one to give them a trial. You are at liberty to
use this as an advertisement.” Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills stand alone as a perfect blood
purifier, and positively cure biliousness, indiges-
tion, dyspepsia, headache, sallow complexion,
liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimples, and
blotches. Price, Is. lid. per bottle, or six
bottles 6s. 6d. Sole proprietors, The W. H.
Comstock Co. Ltd. (Australasian Depot), 58 Pitt-
street, Sydney. They are packed in amber
bottles, and the full name blown thereon.*
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO..
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
RICHMOND, VICTORIA;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
1\ jA
BEAUTY’S
CHARIOT! The Ladies’ RED BIRD
Edward-street, Brisbane, Q.
Swanston-street, Melbourne, Vio.
Branches:
/ RuncUe-street, Adelaide, S.A.
\ Victoria-street, Wellington, N.Z.
The COOLD BICYCLE CO.,
64 King-st., SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Close on 1500 persons watched Otto Cribb and
Mick Dunn fight eight fierce rounds at Gaiety A.O.
(Sydney) on Monday night. Excitement fairly boiled
from beginning to end of one of the roughest struggles
imaginable. It wasn’t a boxing-match most of the time ;
it Was a bumping, pushing, wrestling affair, with Oribb
forcing the game and Dunn, contrary to expectations,
standing up to the onslaughts instead of falling back
upon superior skill Often each let go right and left for
seconds at a stretch —throwing science to the winds—and
then arms flew about like flails, but comparatively little
damage was done, as Oribb doesn’t quite understand how
to hit, relying more upon roughing, bustling tactics
which his extraordinary strength and stamina enable him
to bring to bear with palpable effect. Both were fre-
quently weak, so much so that they could do little more
than claw at each other. Half-a-dozen times Dunn
appeared to have the game to himself if he had only stood
off and punched, but the situation didn’t seem to
strike him that way, for he rarely shifted, came
away, or resorted to any of the clever footwork
which has helped to make a name for him.
Oribb was prone, Dunn was spread-eagled, and they fell
sprawling together many times, but not once as the re-
sult of a blow on either side. The work was too wild for
anything so effective. On one occasion Dunn slipped and
did the circus “ splits ” act, and Cribb tumbled clean over
his head with such weight and force that it seemed as if
Dunn’s neck must be badly injured, but he got up and
fought again. ’Twas anyone’s fight at least a dozen
times, and by-and-bye they were both so limp and played
out that they could only fall on each other ; then it
became a question of who would hang out the longest.
Cribb did, as everyone expected. In the eighth 3mins.
they were floundering and mauling when a not-by-any-
means forceful swing, which went right round Dunn’s
neck, over-balanced him, and down he went into a sitting
posture too fagged for the slightest effort. He was in the
act of rising when referee George Seale counted him out
amidst a scene of wild excitement.
* * * •
“ Old Timer ” : Cribb-Dunn fight Monday night
was stirring, and sensational, but it wasn’t the game as
’tis understood. Cribb fouled often and fouled badly
occasionally, so much so that the referee had to caution
him. Once Joe Dunn (one of Mick’s seconds) lost his head
completely, and jumped into the ring protesting while
the fight went on. This was a gross breach of the rules
that should have caused Mick’s disqualification. Dunn,
undoubtedly a clever boxer, showed little of his skill and
stood up playing into Cribb’s hands. Neither man’s
blows did much harm, it was simply the pace, the boring
and the forcing that told the tale. In one round Dunn
punched Cribb’s head from side to side and had a chance
then if he had kept cool, but that essential was always
absent on both sides when most needed. There was a lot
of wearisome wrangling over the gloves. Cribb wanted to
use an old set. Dunn insisted upon new ones and was right.
Ultimately the matter was settled by Dunn using new ones,
which were 60z., and Cribb donning old ones (40z.). Later
Abe Willis (Cribb’s chief second) objected to sticking-
plaster on Dunn’s hand. Another long barney resulted,
and matter was left to referee Geo. Seale, who very pro-
perly allowed it. Judged by Monday night’s showing,
writer feels sure that whilom Captain’s Flat miner, Dan
O’Connell (now up Cobar way), would give Cribb a better
fight and have a better chance of beating him than any-
one else in sight, as he’s exceptionally strong and can hit
hard. If we had a “ Dummy ” Mace, a George Dawson, a
Paddy Gorman, or a Jack Hall with us now, Otto’s non-
pareil march would be brought up with a round turn.
Twasn’t age that beat Dunn, though he is 35 and Oribb
about 22. Want of judgment and lack of sufficient phy-
sical power told most against him. The affair at no stage
rose to the dignity of a good boxing-match.
* * * *
Tom Essler —misnamed the “Kaffir” (he’saCape
Malay)—evidenced once agaiu, Saturday night (at Golden
Gate A. C., Sydney), that ’tis time he tried something
else beside boxing. Grit to the core, a hard puncher, and
owning an extraordinary capacity for taking punishment,
nature hasn’t quite fitted him for the bruising game; he
lacks the essentials of height and length of arm, and
doesn’t seem able to get properly attuned. His latest
opponent (“ Bob” Turner) is a graduate from the novice
ranks, and a fighter every inch. Though the same weight
as the black (Bst. 41b.), Turner stood well over his man,
and out-reached him inches apparently. The go was
fierce from end to end of five rounds. As long as his con-
dition lasted “ the Kaffir ” had a shade the better of
things, but he broke up badly in the last 3 min., and had
to cave in. Essler hasn’t done much since the lickings he
gave Tom Hope a year or so back.
• • • »
Black Pluto (fresh from Yankeedom) and
Cocker Tweedie meet at Gaiety A. C. (Sydney) this
Friday night. Pluto used to be a good ’un, but he’s a
deal older now, and will be giving away about 2st.,
hence writer isn’t in love with his chance. Somewhat of
a coincidence that 10 or 12 years ago Pluto was Griffo’s
most dangerous rival, and now he’s matched to meet a
man who hails from same quarter (the “Rocks”) as
Griffo, and has such a lot of Griffo’s peculiarities and
style.
* • * *
The success of Otto Cribb has caused brother
Arthur to take to the bruising game; he’ll shape up
against “ Rollo ” at Golden Gate A.C. (Sydney) Saturday
next week. Rollo’s methods are as crude as the old-time
Cribb’s, but he’s a tough ’un who’ll want licking. Up to
now Arthur’s operations on a man’s head (as was pre-
viously the case with Otto) have been limited to hair-
cutting and shaving. Writer isn’t gone on Rollo’s pros-
pects for he doesn’t own the physique and hasn’t got the
fighting mug of Otto.
» • • »
The boxing boom, pretty well played out at
Broken Hill, is passing on to Pt. Pirie, the silver town’s
smelting and shipping place. But, though it is getting
warm support, the population is too small to keep it
going for long.
» * * *
Hitherto the destiny of the retired pug has been
the pub, but ’tis given out that coal-skinned Ike Stewart
has put his haul from the two wins over Starlight into the
fried-fish and oyster business. Which recalls that M.L.
Billy Hefferman, after settling Boer Holloway and one or
two others in S’Africa years ago, started out as an
itinerant saveloy, baked-“ tater ” and green-pea man on
Johannesburg streets, and having built up a fair pile,
went ’Ome. He is back in S’Africa once more—fighting
again, but not with the “ mauleys.”
* * * *
Details of Fitzsimmons-Sailor Sharkey mill in
S’York,. August St); came by' Monday’s mail. ’Twas
brief and fierce. They were at each other like
catamounts from “ Time! ” Fitz. scored freely,
but Sharkey rushed, scrambled, and hurled him-
self at the lathy marvel as if beat upon annihilation in
one fell swoop. Fitzsimmons’ rights for the jaw were
clumsy efforts for such a top-notiher. By-and-bye Fitz.
shunted caution altogether, and the order was bang for
bang with the result that both caught heaps of stoush.
They were battling away, grimly determined and savage
as tigers, when suddenly Sharkey landed a left jab
straight on the chin. Fitz. swayed, tottered, became
limp and sank to the boards, and Sharkey toppled over
him. There Fitz. lay, apparently' done, but ere the lOsecs.
could be counted the gong sounded “corners.” That
saved him, for he had to be carrie 1 to his chair, and had
barely been brought round whe i “ Time,” was called
once more. Sharkey, whose “Irish” was up, went in
to finish—bashing, swinging, and uppercutting with
savage ferocity, but Fitz. managed to dodge the worst
until he got a chance to give Sharkey a fearful dig
with the right in the victualling d( pt. The Sailor showed
no vim subsequently, and was uL mately outed with an
uppercut on the chin.
Much of the doughty Bob Fitzsimmons’
perennial youth and health is attributed to his abstin-
ence from alcohol. When he was learning the trade of
a smith in his father’s forge in Maoriland it was cus-
tomary to have daily a buoxet of beer in the precincts,
but the red-headed one would never even smell it.
Felt no desire, although his sire and brothers lubricated
diurnally for years in his presence. “ Fitz’ ” pet vice was
cock-fighting. However, a strong man like Fitzsimmons
would not be made or marred as a fighter by either con-
suming or abstaining from a reasonable amount of beer.
The fact that Fitz drank no beer is only of a piece with his
all-round self-control.
* » * *
In the recent Fitzsimmons-Ruhlin fight, though
Ruhlin was 2in. taller and nearly 2st. heavier, Fitz.
measured 2Jin. more (44) round the chest, had 3in. (38)
greater waist, same thigh (23), was only Jin. less round
wrist, and had lin. bigger (14J) biceps.
* • • *
The fight ’tween the two Yankee top-notchers,
Corbett and M‘Coy, Aug. 29, at New York, is said to have
been one of the cleverest ever witnessed. Thousands looked
on. ’Twas refined pugilism as opposed to that of which Otto
Cribb, Sailor Sharkey and World’s champion Jeffries are
exponents. Corbett hovered about his man, pecked at
him as a bird does at a flower ; then he went in full of
vim, pinned M'Ooy in corners several times and peppered
away with both hands. In round 5 M'Ooy was dead to
the world—a succession of rights about the solar plexus
finished him. Authorities assert that as an exhibition of
boxing the affair is immortal. For all the damage in-
flicted (so clever were the evasive tactics resorted to)
during the first three rounds, it might have been a duel
between a couple of shadows. They scored often, but the
one struck at was always going away, hence the damage
done was trifling.
Word comes per Yankee mail that Hibernian
ex-pug Lockhart died at Wadsville (U.S.) t’other day,
close on 104 years old. Eighty years back (in Ireland)
Lockhart killed a man and cleared to America to evade
the law. He fought often afterwards, and eventually'
settled in Virginia in 1825. He was unusually strong,
never had to lie up for a single day, and right on to a year
or two before death looked as if he was going to live at
least another century. He was a great smoker and drank
moderately.
* * » *
The Vic. police-force comprises some whoppers.
Const. Kelly, of Melbourne (22st. 101 b.) is the biggest.
Next are Senr. Const. O’Callaghan, of Port Melbourne
(20st.), then Const. Don Preston (19st. 61b.). Said that
while O’Oallaghan was watch-house keeper he scaled 23st.
Kelly is reputedly particularly good at some athletic
games.
* * * *
Apropos recent N.S.W. pigeon-shooting cham-
pionship contest. The winner (Eales) actually grassed
115 out of 116 during the day, for when done with
“ Bobby ” (99 out of 10J) he killed 16 more in ‘subsequent
sweeps, shooting from 34yds.—four further back than in
the match.
* * * *
“Feather ” : Glebe’s win of N.S.W. Champion
Eights recalls that, for 12 years previously, same club
hadn’t won Maiden or Junior Fours. Since Rowing Ass.
regatta began, Champion Eights have been decided 19
times. Sydney Club got home in 10, Mercs. 3, ’Varsity
and N. Shore 2, and Glebe and E. Sydney 1 each. W.
Lambert (Leichhardt Club) has won Sculls 5 times, J. G.
Kennedy (Sydney) 3, and present holder (Daley) twice.
Including Maiden and Junior Fours, Sydney R.C. tops
the list with 9 wins, though it hasp’t won either of these
races during last seven years.
* * * *
The N.S.W. “amateur” billiard supremacy
went last week from previous holder (Rumball) to Spencer
(“Pyramids.”). Match took place at the “Oxford,”
Sydney, and conditions called for 1500 up—soo each
evening with ivory balls. Ultimate winner, who was
favorite from the jump, got home with 163 to the good.
Play all through reached a high standard, and both
shaped quite as well as any of Sydney’s leading pro’s.
This was the second match of the present year for the
“ amateur premiership,” and if the public ’ll stand them
there might be many more, Writer would like to be en-
lightened as to what constitutes an amateur billiardist in
N.S.W., and whether “Bill” Lyons and sundry others
similarly placed would fill the bill; if so, how's the line
drawn between amateur and pro.'?
* ♦ * *
Lochiel—Forget-me-not horse Flodden struck
form unexpectedly at Warwick Farm, Saturday, and won
the big mile-and-a-quarter race unbacked, after a tough
fight with Idle Boy from home turn. Writer saw 50 to 5
laid against ultimate winner a few yards from post.
Since appropriating Winter Stakes at Tatts. (Sydney)
meeting in ’9B Flodden won nothing through running
twice next season, and twenty times since then.
• * » *
Turns out now that “ Oxy ” wasn’t the owner of
Australian nag Syerla when it won in England t’other
day ; he had previously sold that and Sailor Boy for
£2ooo—a big lot more than they’d have fetched here.
Sir Edgar Vincent—who has other Australian horse Cran-
berry—was the buyer. '
* * • *
“F.C.”: “E.O.E.’s” arguments (8., 22/9/’00)
are gone in the knees. Says, “ it’s the bookmaker who
makes betting possible for men who do bet.” As how?
Won’t the tote lay the know-all punter longer odds than
the bookie? Yes, even whether he gets in first'or last.
And as for aforesaid wiseacre, how many are there of him
who bring twenties and fifties into the betting industry
from outside sources » Writer’s experience is that most
of those who live on the game bring precious little into it.
Stakes, maintenance of courses, keep of horses, wages of
jockeys and trainers, and profits of lkey—do they not all,
barring what comes from a few wealthy owners and
“ sports,” come out of the pockets of what the error-
gentleman calls “mugs”— i.e., working men, who bring
cash from outside sources into the biz. and leave it there ?
Who brings this tremendous sum yearly into the racing
game ? The twenty-and-fifty, know-all punter? Then he
badly wants re-christening. And if he did, then wouldn’t
it be better for him to take nine-tenths of it out again
instead of “ providing lkey with diamonds and wine ” ?
* * • *
Vic. football premiership, as contested, supplies
a heap of humour. Ultimate winners (Melb. Club) were
really fifth on season’s doings, for Fitzroy, Essendon Gee-
long, and Collingwood, as named, did better. Cause of
this is the peculiar conditions laid down by the govern-
ing body. Matches played on first 14 Saturdays of season
don’t count; competition really takes place in next five
of the 19 embraced, so that “ interest during last month
of season may be sustained.” The system has at least the
recommendation of novelty, and, putting the most chari-
table construction upon it, is probably born of a hanker-
ing after big “gates.”
* • * *
Duncan, the volatile, voluble, venerable toe-
baller, who was in Australia with the ’B7 Maoriland team
is still one of the “ cracks ” in the island home of Riwby!
He is very bald, and 45 years old, with 10 images” de-
pendent on him for succour. “ Jimmy ” means to play
another five years, and then have a jubilee.
* • * •
In view of the goriness of most Rugby contests
m Maoriland, the various unions are formulating a scheme
for insuring all belligerents.
• • * .
In Maoriland, football is an institution on a
par with the income-tax and woman’s franchise. At
the beginning" of this football season a number of transfers
from the Govt. Engineering Dept, were gazetted. This
would have meant the loss of three of its best players to
one Wellington club, but the club president luckily had a
pull at the station,” so the transfers have been post-
poned till after football time.
* * • •
Mother State Cricket Association has decreed
that there shall be no N.S.W.-Q. match this season. Q.
wanted home-and-home contests, but N.S.W. O.A. wasn’t
on, as it has sunk hundreds in sending teams to Brisbane
besides almost invariably losing over matches in Sydney,
without the remotest prospect, apparently, of ever getting
any back or the slightest indication of any advancement
in the quality of Q. cricket.
* *' * *
S. Australia’s inter-State cricket eleven will pro-
bably play without Jack Lyons this season. Owing to a
breakdown he retired early last year, and it is somewhat
doubtful if he will play regularly in club cricket this
season. Understood that McKibbin is available, and a
promising Ballarat youngster named Drew has been im-
ported, but the Darling-Lyons gap will be hard to fill.
For a long time S.A.C.A. has talked of importing a pro-
fessional, but nothing has been done, and the S.A.
batting, always a big draw in the past, will be very weak.
* * * *
Veteran George Giffen will probably captain
S.A. cricket team this season in Darling’s absence.
“ Giff ” lasts them all out. He has been playing in inter-
state matches for over 20 years, and now, with Darling
and Lyons out, Mill once again be S.A.’s mainstay, just as
he was in the eighties. And old Giff is in his 42nd year
now.
* * * *
The cricket season at Broken Hill has begun
without bowler Jones’ help. “ Jonah ”is still undecided
about the future.
* • • •
Kadina, a S.A. copper-mining town, has put up
a record. For a local bicycle race there were 19 entries.
After the handicaps were issued there was one acceptor !
* * * *
League of Wheelmen’s big meet begins this and
ends next Saturday at Sydney Cricket Ground. Same
body hasn’t had any daylight struggles since Oct. last
year. Best riders in Australia are engaged. Five miles’
supremacy of Australia is chief event. Plugger Bilmartin,
Megson, Walne, Beauchamp, dusky-hued Gordon (who
put up a half-mile record in Melb. t’other day), Lewis,
Wilkseh, Hunt, Forbes and others are sure starters, and
ought to fight out the hottest finish seen for a long time.
Three miles tandem premiership is a new thing. Five
miles League amateur championship should be interest-
ing, ’specially as winner must tackle successful man in
prof, supremacy to decide which is the better at the
game.
* * * •
The Massey-Harris 10 miles amateur road race
in Brisbane attracted 101 entries, and was run in heats.
The final was decided last Saturday, when Massey-Harris
riders put up an excellent record, securing first, third,
fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh places, besides first and
second fastest times.
At time of going to press Sydney was
threatened with a general strike of ferry-com-
Sanies. Certain new regulations by the Marine
bard demand much larger provision for the safety
of passengers than heretofore, and this has greatly
reduced the capacity of the boats ; some of them
will carry less than half the passengers they did in
the old, happy-go-lucky, sardine-packing days. By
way of protest season-tickets are issued this month
with a proviso that the boats may cease running
at any moment, without notice; it is thought that
a general stoppage, which will leave half Sydney
to swim to its place of business, may lead to the
cancelling of the obnoxious regulation. Of course
it may do so; on the other hand, it may only lead
Bill Lyne to rush an Act through in one night for
the compulsory resumption of all ferry-boats, and
the cos. may find their boats seized at 5 next
morning, and run as a State service, and the ques-
tion of price referred to arbitration. Premier
Lyne can be reasonably fast at times, and a strike
of the ferry companies against the law of N.S.W.
might rouse him to do something quite unexpected.
Victoria’s Civil Service pensions for the last
10 years—’9l, £140,068; ’92, £157,275; ’93, £192,654:
’94, £238,105 ; ’95, £285,026; ’96, £313,360; ’97,
£313,665; ’9B, £314,251; ’99, £311,607; ’OO,
£305,000. The figures are staggering when com-
pared with those of other States ; the bill for ’99
being—in'S. A., £7500 ; N.S.W., £23,410 ; W.A.,
£6031; Q., £22,291; M.L., £31,950. Victoria
decided in ’Bl to grant no more pension
rights, and the annual decrease is just begin-
ning to be noticeable. It is this fund which
Opposition Leader Turner proposes to rely on
for his Old Age Pensions scheme, but the State
pensioner has a wonderfully tenacious grip of life,
and his days far exceed the allotted span. Out of
this tremendous sum the evergreen O. G. Duffy
draws £lOOO yearly (since ’63), Lady Darling
£lOOO, Andrew Clarke £BOO (since ’57 !), except
when hp is acting as Agent-General, six County
Court judges £750 each, and a large and varied
assortment of ex-public servants from £7OO down
to £2O per annum. One pensioner, compulsorily
retired during the days of depression in ’92 and
’93, was then only 28 years old, two others 29,
four 31, while there are nearly 50 under 38.
Piles and their Cure.—Mr. Frank Buckhurst,
Chemist, Mutual Store Buildings, Flinders-street,
Melbourne, has now a stock of the famous
“Cannalin” remedies, so successful in the treat-
ment of the worst forms of this complaint. Copies
of the pamphlet by Albert Sharp, entitled “Piles
and the Way to Cure Them,” sent free on applica-
tion—or from the Sydney depot, 257 George-st.
English press critics have been getting
heavily on to the miserable incompetence of the
War Office, and to the lamentable military mis-
management and disorganisation generally—
pointing out for one thing that, whereas in the
two months before Waterloo, Napoleon created a
force of 500,000 armed men, and would in three
more months have had 800,000 men ready for war,
Lord Lansdowne in seven months could hardly
provide an ill-equipped 100,000. The War Office,
according to another writer, “has been proved
heartless in its treatment of the soldier, destitute
of all foresight in its preparations, incompetent in
its organisation for war, and in the conduct of a
great struggle wanting in every quality that wins
success.” And “if our soldiers have conquered,”
observes yet another, “it is in spite of, rather
than because of, the British War Office.” The
naval administration also comes in for some hard
knocks; and, as regards the boasted British
cavalry service, it is pointed out that “ practically
anyone can have a cavalry commission for the
asking, because an officer’s kit costs about £5OO or
£6OO at the outset, and he is then required to
have an income of at least £5OO a year, so that in
the cavalry, in which, above all other arms—save
perhaps the artillery—a quick and trained intelli-
gence is required in every officer, we shall find, as
a rule, the worst educated and least intelligent
officers in the army.” If these strictures had
come from abroad they would doubtless have been
fathered upon prejudice and mothered upon mal-
information; but, as the stirring-up is from
within, even British official Tories will have at
least to turn over on their pillow—though the
chances are that they will promptly go fast asleep
again.
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. reports
th at, owing to the high rate of freights to the land of the
Bull-dog Breed, the rise in Mark Lane is not reflected in
the local wheat market. In most cases owners decline to
accept prices offered, and local millers declare that at the
ruling prices for flour they cannot offer more ; while the
shippers declare that to do business tn the present lines
is simply to make money for the shipowners, and they
don’t feel that way. Prices are 2s. 9d. to 2s. lOd. for
prime samples, and other descriptions proportionately.
At Poverty Point.
Maud Williamson’s dramatised version of “ Barabbas,”
tried on the dog at Broken Hill, left the dog alive but
sleepy ; for the curtain didn’t come down till something
to twelve. The last act is the most tedious one, too ;in
it Judith, Barabbas’s Oamille, goes mad and kills herself ;
and until a whole stick of blue pencil has been used on
the act, people will say it serves her right. Barabbas
(who, by the way, is one of only two or three that haven’t
been re-christened) is even more of a hero than the Oorelli
drew. Alfred Woods plays him, and Maud Williamson is
Judith. At latest the Corelliamson drama had filled the
theatre for a week—a long run at B.H.—and was then
going strong.
Young Clive O’Hara, the tall comely son of the Mel-
bourne surgeon, has accepted an engagement with
Rickards, and will make his first appearance in Adelaide
as a professional conjuror. Clive O’Hara is just the boy
to run an entertainment on Dante lines. A neat trickster,
of most engaging appearance and address, he intends to
work in knee-breeches and silk stockings, like the late
debonair American, whose business he imitates. By the
way, Dante’s handsome relict will soon be a rival attrac-
tion, for when young O’Hara wrote to her as to purchas-
ing her late husband’s conjuring effects she replied that
she would want them for her own show.
Nance O’Neil should take lessons from Johnny Sheridan
in the art of handling her skirts.
The three Melbourne dailies printed extravagantly
gorgeous notices of a new vocalist the other Monday, on
the assumption that she was an imported prima donna of
George Musgrove’s co. The lady, Madame Slapoffski,
sang a very fetching number (“ Elizabeth’s Prayer,”
from “ Tannhauser ”) at a Marshall-Hall concert, anti the
critics, being prepared to hear a fine voice, and having no
test of comparison to apply to it, gave the lady credit for
a “ beautiful soprano ” and a “brilliant success.” As a
matter of fact, the lady sang in good operatic style.
Nothing more than that. Her voice is not very musical,
and her low notes are decidedly poor. And she is not
one of Musgrove’s principals, as was supposed.
Slapoffski, the batonist of Musgrove’s grand opera co.,
is not the sort of conductor who lunches on the perfume
of a lily and combs his hair with his fingers. He has the
musical soul in a muscular body, and "the name he de-
rived from his Russian father fits the 40-year old Londoner
like a glove—like two gloves, in fact. He holds trophies
for which he foughf and bled under Marquis of Queens-
berry rules, so if any truculent chorister is looking for
trouble Slapoffski can teach hint how to sing flat in a
brace of shakes.
Benno Scherek is careful to disclaim any particular
credit for his tuition of Miss Una Bourne. She is a suc-
cess. “If a teacher praises himself for the successes, he
must blame himself for the failures. I blame myself for
nothing,” says Herr Benno. When asked to name his
“ best ” pupil, the nimble humorist states that he married
his best pupil. His first wife was his pupil, and his first
wife is the present Mrs. Scherek.
“ S.S.” : Mr. Charles Arnold, speaking of “ Magda” to
a Bulletin interviewer, says : “ Would that Nance O’Neil
could see Mrs. Pat. Campbell’s “ Magda,” the woman of
artistic temperament, of tender emotions, sensitive to the
traditions of home. She made the tears run down my
cheeks.” If Miss O’Neil might have been induced to
imitate the Mrs. Pat. Campbell Magda we should all be
grateful that she never saw it. Mrs. P. O.’s performance
may have been very touching and tenderly sentimental,
but, if so, it was certainly not the Magda Sudermann
imagined. Duse’s Magda, and Miss O’Neil plays it on the
same lines, is the true Magda, according to Sudermann,
and even an actor should admit an author’s opinions to
be deserving of some little consideration. Magda was
never intended to be like the returned repentant in
“ East Lynne,” and she is not sensitive to the traditions
of home. The author’s deliberate intention was to jump
on the traditions of home with both feet, and Mrs. Pat.
Campbell, in converting Magda into the conventional
heroine, played down to the sickly sentimentality of the
great British public, which admires everything in the
foreign playmakers but their brains.
How punctuation affects a poster. Apropos of the
Arnold advt., “ What Happened to Jones every evening,”
appearing on every hoarding and in every shop-’window in
Sydney, it is suggested that Mrs. Jones might be able to
throw some light on the subject.
Apropos a last week’s Melb. newspaper controversy,
thus malevolently “ Cockney ” to The Bulletin :
“ Marshall Hall’s printed disquisitions on the symphonies
and things which his orchestra performs are altogether
sickening to everyone save his weak-minded adorers. The
absurd man puts himself forward in the character of a
critic whose word is law. He tells creation what to
admire in music and what to despise, just like any
ordinary newspaper pedant, but with an infinitely greater
display of personal vanity. In short, he is a Musical
Bounder. The fact that he gets his hair cut regularly
and refrains from platform antics can only be ascribed to
a freak of dissimulation. His real nature is that of the
musician who strikes grotesque attitudes and lets his hair
grow on for ever. The musical art, unfortunately, provides
exceptional opportunities for the arrogance of educated
bounders. It is the one art the professors
whereof can—if they are competent professors—overrate
themselves without getting their pretensions fairly
summed up by those outsiders who critically feel its
influence without being able to discuss the technicalities
of composition. A second-rate picture-artist, or literary
man, can’t bluff the public to any great extent with his
mere prose, whereas a Marshall Hall can, on the strength
of the knowledge he has acquired by the exercise of
ordinary brains, pretend to be 10 times his natural size—
until another competent musician criticises him in cold
print."
Guy Standing, (the son of Herbert Standing, who visited
Australia with Mrs. Bernard Beere’s C 0.,) has recently
married an American actress —Miss Blanche Burton, of
Frohman’s Empire Co. This is Guy’s second matrimonial
adventure, his first, with beautiful Isabella Urquhart,
having ended in divorce.


Ebery one PIPES the Praises
<vv.
OF
Derby
TOBACCO
PURE,
AROMATIC,
DELIGHTFUL.
ASK FOR IT ALWAYS,
AND TAKE NO OTHER.
12
The Modern Art Jewellery Co.,
187 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone 3490
Watchmakers 0 Jewellers.
Rotherham’s Gold & Silver Lever
Watches.
Specially Manufactured for ua.
A Boon for Boys. A Really Reliable Timekeeper.
Open-faced Gun Metal “COLLEGIAN” Lever
Watches —f-plate, jewelled, adjusted hair spring,
compensation balance, lever escapement. 21s.
SPECIAL VALUE.
UNSURPASSED.
c f
V
SYDNEY -
m
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
for the hair.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
for the teeth.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Othce.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
X° CYCLISTS AND CYCLE REPAIRMEN
I*~ YOU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINES 1
“ IMPERIAL ” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rims and
Dunlops.
"IMPERIAL” Special Racers with same fittings.
American 1900 Model Component Sets, complete with
every fitting, all ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze can build a bicycle
of these sets.
“ MORROW ” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Back Pedal
Brake—saves the rider 40 per cent.
Write for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
Sundries, Novelties and Second-hand Wheels. GOOD
AGENTS wanted where not at present represented. Marino
Oil Engines and Launches—particulars and designs. A
post-card will bring you all information of our lines
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
North Chillagoe mines.—The further this exposd
goes the uglier it looks. Not known who is directly re-
sponsible for the omissions from and alterations of, if not
additions to, Geologist Dunstan’s original report, which
was quite good enough to be left alone, but it is quite
clear that one P. Duffy took a prominent hand in (unavail-
ingly) offering inducements to the Q. Govt. Geologist and
his assistants. All others connected with the concern are
indirectly responsible. It was the business of the provi-
sional directors to, at any rate, read the original report.
Well-known that they seldom do it, but that is no reason
why, when found out, they should not sufferfor the effect
of their neglect.
* * * •
The North Chillagoe correspondence, just
laid on the table of Q. Assembly, is charming read-
ing. Thus the co.’s agent to B. Dunstan, subordi-
nate to W. H. Bands, Govt. Geologist : “ Now,
straight talk. Will you accept a suitable, pleasant
Eosition in the new company ? What would you like the
est? Tell me. Also what salary you would like. I,
with two others, have a block support of 42,000 votes in
the new company. ... I intend to have you compen-
sated for your exertions, &c., &c.—Yours, P.D.”
Further, to Mr. Bands himself: “ Dear sir, —I don’t
think I should mention that vote our company made the
other day, for I presume they intended to keep that until
the company was floated. But my advice is not to refuse
it. It will be worth between two and three thousand to
you, and is simply a present.”
Another letter from the legal manager contained a
lovely series of questions and suggestions for answers re
the company’s properties and their prospects. But the
officials didn’t bite, and Parliament got hold of the docu-
ments, and all the fat was in the fire. And now writes
Brisbane Courier (puffer-in-chief to the syndicate busi-
ness) mournfully : “ We join with the Labor-party and all
honest men in denouncing such tactics.” Just fancy—
the Labor-party and all honest men ! And fancy, fur-
ther, the Courier allying itself with such a wicked gang 1
When B. L. Jack was Q. Govt. Geologist, he made it a
strict rule never to hold a single share in any Queensland
mining concern, and it is said that his successor follows a
similar course.
• * • •
“Trotter” : The Disraeli gold-mine lies within
two miles of the Burdekin and about 20 miles of Charters
Towers. Fifteen years ago or more it was floated in
England for £150,000. Of this £60,000 was spent in a
railway, machinery, and a 40-head battery. The gold
was there, but owing to errors made in expenditure it
must have cost more than it was worth to unearth. A
manager was engaged at £l5OO per annum, and a secre-
tary at £lOOO, and where a few men were employed an
overseer was placed over them at a big screw. In the
prospectus, lithographs were prepared showing the Bur-
dekin with steamers running up and down, and wharves
and factories lining the banks in the vicinity of the mine ;
also a whaleboat with an anchor was sent out from Eng-
land, and it is there now. A small township was built,
streets laid out and made, and the co.’s money paid for it
all. The mine during this time showed fair returns. The
smash came at last and everything was sold off. I was
coming down the coast from Hong Kong in ’B5, and we
had on board a well-known mining speculator who (I was
young and inexperienced) easily induced me to buy 1000
Disraeli shares at 10s. I never heard any more about the
mine until I visited the Towers last July—having since
then been through Europe, America, and Australia. I
went out to see the property and learned all this. About
seven years ago two brothers named Thompson took the
property up, and have continued to work it themselves
besides letting portions of it on tribute. The brothers
and the tributors have done well, some of the crushings
yielding soz. to the ton. When the co. had the mine
it never even sank a shaft. By the way, the Disraeli
was originally known as “ The Scotchman,” but the
smarty who introduced the show to London notice said
that such a name would never do in the Big Smoke,
which, didn’t like Scotchmen—better call it after Dizzy,
the Jew. And they did.
* » * *
A wail from Chillagoe :
Dear Bulletin, — Chillagoe is at present a place of hes-
sian with flooring of ant-bed, and small indeed is the
stranger’s chance of work, although there are many men
here who have travelled 2000 miles looking for a “ crust.”
Labouring men, these ; but of tradesmen, such as carpen-
ters and , smiths, there are also more than enough.
Miners have done fairly well in the past, and good
money has been earned at contract work by men who
had “ savee ” enough to ease-off when their shift rate was
getting too high. But in those times Calcifer was pro-
viding plenty work ; the Otho (4£ miles) was a camp of 60
or 70 men, and Mungana and Bedcap, further out. were
fairly populous ; whereas, nowadays, Calcifer is all but,
and Otho entirely, deserted by miners ; while the men at
the other shows have been reduced in numbers right and
left. In brief, there is now no opening for competent
miners, and yet there have been advts. in the papers for
labor, and cruel and foolish talk from interested persons
about skilled men coming along when they know more
about the country and climate. Skilled men have come
along, and are now going off, coach-load after coach-load,
and cursing the day they ever put foot in such a hole.
There may be a future before the place, but just now it’s
a question of the living, necessitous present. And, until
1901, when the rails get through, there will be no reason-
able chances for working men or business people, in any
line—catch advts., tail-talk, and gaudy promises notwith-
standing. —Stony.
* * • •
Further progress is said to have been made in
the development of the Ellershausen process for treating
sulphides. Experiments have been carried on mainly in
France, but at last an English co.—the Sulphide Seduction
(New Process) Co. —with a half-million capital, was being
formed, and provisional arrangements had been made to
erect works on the Manchester Ship Canal. The trouble
always is, though, to get these theoretically-excellent
processes to give the same results on a commercial scale.
That was what went wrong with Ashcroft’s process, and
that is what has gone wrong with the Gitsham’s process
still being tried by a Melb. co. on Tasmanian ores.
* * * *
Apropos of the constant complaint about the
difficulty of finding investments for the ever-growing
funds of life assurance offices. Why should not rent-pro-
ducing town and city property be allowable as an invest-
ment for assurance funds, on certain stringent conditions.
One condition, of course, must be that a mutual life office
must not be considered a big landlord within the meaning
of the graduated land-tax, and it certainly should not be ;
it isn’t an individual landlord, but an association of indi-
viduals, mostly rather poor individuals, with an average
of about t2OO worth of property apiece. The situation is
about this : The amount of money available for loan on
mortgage (bank funds, building society funds, assurance
funds, funds in the hands of trustee companies and other
companies, money in private hands, money sent out by
foreign investors and offering through solicitors, &c.)
is increasing so enormously that the supply is far
ahead of the demand. Hence rates are very low. On the
other hand, hardly any companies are allowed by the
terms of their constitution to purchase property, there-
fore the number of buyers being limited, property prices
are low also. The mortgage business looks safer than the
owning of property, but it isn’t—if the latter were done
on proper lines. The mortgagee certainly has a margin,
while the buyer hasn’t. But if values go down heavily
the mortgagee is often left, while if they go up he gets
no benefit. He gets less return for his money, gets a
share in the losses, and gets no share in the profits. The
joy of being a professional mortgagee isn’t what it looks.
It is quite possible to buy city- and good sub-
urban property on wholesale principles and make 5| per
cent, net out of it all round. It is especially possible
just now. If a big life assurance co. went' into this
business on a large scale, with the cast-iron proviso that
£1 per cent, must be set aside each year out of the re-
turns to form a sinking fund to write down the value of
the property, that sinking fund, compounded at 4J per
cent., would write off the whole value of the property in
39 years. After that the entire return would be profit or
bonus. Under such circumstances the assurance society
could hardly be caught by a fall in values. _ In 15 years it
would have a larger margin of safety than it has on most
of its mortgages, and the margin would keep increasing.
And on present values an assurance society which bought
city property judiciously would get, even after deducting
1 per cent, sinking fund, as large a return as it receives
now on many of its mortgages. The points are
these: (1) The present net return would be as
large as it is now; (2) after about 39 years
the whole property would be profit; (3) after a very few
years there would be as large a margin of safety as there
is on the ordinary mortgage ; (4) the institutions would
get the benefit of any rise in property values instead of
merely, as with the mortgage business, getting a share of
the losses when property goes down and none of the
profits when it goes up ; (5) by creating a better market
for property they would increase its value; (6) by
reducing the supply of money to lend on mortgage they
would improve interest rates.
This scheme can’t be judged by the ill-luck
which has attended the great life institutions in their
property dealings of late years, That ill-luck arose
solely out of the disastrous mortgage business.
The offices got none of the advantages of the
rise in properties that went on up to '9l. While
properties were improving in value they were never left
on the mortgagee’s hands; it was only when the slump
came that the Australian life offices became large land-
lords under compulsion. And even then they got no
properties except the worst ones. A mortgagee is in this
painful position as against an owner. They may both see
a big fall coming. The owner may sell and get out, if
he has luck, and pass the loss on to a confiding fellow-
creature ; the mortgagee often has his money fixed for five
years or so, and he has to stay in and take the conse-
quences.
* • * *
Lucky, masterful Frank Gardner —Sitting Bull
Gardner —chairman of directors of a host of things, num-
bers among them the syndicate owning the Wilfley con-
centrating tables, which are having such a run at Broken
Hill. The syndicate, which has been in existence only
three years, last 12 months paid divs. equal to 35 per cent,
on paid-up capital.
• * * •
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can he ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
* • * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchij Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Complete copper statistics for last year show
that, despite the jump in the price, the world’s production
only advanced from 434,329 tons (in 1898) to 473,818 tons.
The U.S. output rose from 239,241 to 265,156 tons ; the
Australian from 18,000 to 20,750. True, copper-mines
take some time, as a rule, to develop, so that the figures
for 1900, or even 1901 will tell the tale better. And that
accounts, too, for the fact that when copper slumps it
generally does slump ; for if the statistical position were
immediately affected by the new enterprises, not half so
many would go into the business.
Australian Parliaments should lay down a
fixed principle dealing with messages, cabled and
other, passing between local Govts, and the Govt,
of Great Britain. Revelations made by various
Ministers show that there is no uniform practice.
One Premier makes known the contents of a
despatch, another suppresses the fact that such a
document has come to hand, and so on. It was
only the other day Premier Lyne learned that a
despatch of an important character had been re-
ceived by Reid just prior to the latter politician
quitting office, and Lyne himself has suppressed
fully a dozen of such missives since taking office.
When a despatch is marked “confidential” a
Premier is certainly put in a difficulty, but, unless
we are to lapse into Govt, by bureaucracy, the
word “ confidential ” must be given a new politi-
cal interpretation.
In view of Federation, Westralia is step-
ping out with an unusually long stride to get
abreast of the eastern provinces. In fact, if the
Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, now before the
Groper Parliament, becomes law, W.A. will be
distinctly ahead of some of its eastern rivals. The
Westralian scheme for compulsory settlement of
industrial disputes, and for putting down strikes,
lock-outs and other wasteful processes, is in most
respects an adaptation of the M.L. idea—the most
comprehensive thing of its kind up to date.
Should it become law, the old Gropers will prob-
ably lay a palsied hand on the administration of
it and make it of as little account as possible ; but,
even then, they can only nullify it for a time.
The typical old Groper is dying away, like the Red
Indian and the kangaroo and the belief in witches
and the very long Gippslaud worm.
Donald Macdonald, who was shut up in
Ladysmith all through the siege, knocks on the
head that favorite “Boer brutality” story about
the Dutchmen firing on the British hospital. The
firing was true enough, but the circumstances
made all the difference. The Boers were informed
of the site of the hospital at the beginning of the
siege, and their big guns avoided it most carefully.
Then some fool officer shifted the hospital to a
new and more exposed site, and shells dropped on
it promiscuously until the enemy became ac-
quainted with the new arrangement. Of course
the correspondents couldn’t be allowed to report:
“Boers fired on our hospital through the idiocy
of our officers in shifting it to an exposed
position just when they had learned to look for it
m quite a different place and to avoid it.” So the
report simply ran—“ Boers fired on our hospital.”
“ D.”: The best bit of work in the Orane-Power
revival of “ Tess,” at Melb. Her Majesty’s, was Miss
Lilian Wheeler’s impersonation of the ‘drunken girl,
Marian, a decidedly well-observed and well-executed bit
of character. Unfortunately, Miss Wheeler was taken
ill, and had to be counted out after the second act. Bad
luck seems to attend this role in Melbourne. Linda Ray-
mond, who filled it on first night of the Nance O’Neil
production, did not appear again. By the way, The
Bulletin man who was so severe on the Nance O’Neil
laugh has not found anything distressing to his nerves
in the Crane laugh. Miss Crane gives us Trilby’s eerie
mesmeric chuckle in everything.
Donald Macdonald was received at Auckland by the
committee of the local Journalists’ Institute, and his
season at the Opera House was another gorgeous success.
Mac’s first lecture concluded with the same old story of
the centenarian Kaffir female who tottered along the
main thoroughfare at Ladysmith, remarking—“ The
English can conquer everything but Death.”
Not generally known that Titheradge once played th e ;
part of Rupert (not Rufus) Dawes in a dramatic version
“His Natural Life,” under the old “Firm’s” manage'
ment. The drama was constructed by George Leitchi
who gave himself the “fat” low-comedy character of
Rev. Mr, Meekin. By the way, Titheradge is mentioned
m a likely member of the new co. that Charles Hawtrey
is organising for an Australian tour, to open at the Palace'
Theatre, Sydney, just before Xmas.
“ R.1.F.” : Passing by Sydney Criterion t’other night'
I noticed that the placard with the gruesome picture ad-
vertising the drammer “ Drink ” had a notice attached to
it. Instead of the usual “ Standing-room only,” it read
“House Full!”
The tank into which Bland Holt jumped nightly at Syd-
ney Royal during the run of “ How London Lives ” is over
Bft. deep, and as the agile Bland doesn’t swim a stroke,,
the feat takes nice timing on the part of his fellow come-
dians in the boat.
Wilson Barrett, he of the startlingly short Romani
shirt in “Olaudian,” is reported to be coming out im
garish magnificence as Petronius in “ Quo Vadis.” “ HiS'
first costume, consisting of Roman tunic, tights, and cape
falling from shoulders at back, is entirely of a pinkish;
lilac hue. The bracelets, broad belt, shoulder clasps and
head band to match are richly jewelled with amethysts ;;
even the buskins are encrusted with the purple jewels.
The second is entirely of pale blue, worn with a complete'
and elaborate set of turquoise ornaments. The third is;
white and gold, and with this the jewels are pale topazes,
richly set.” But there isn’t a word about the tail of the;
tunic being a respectable length. Barrett’s Olaudian had
tights on his legs which admirably simulated naked skin,
and above them a brief something which didn’t come
within six inches of his knees. His struggles to die
respectably on a heap of ruins with his legs to the audi-
ence were painful to witness, and after many bashful,
writhings he generally doubled his legs up and perished
awkvtardly.
The next annual Drury Lane drama is to have a big
sensation scene laid in an alleged House of Commons.
The modern dramatist has no reverence for these ancient'
institutions. One day we will be getting a murder (2nd
act) in the smoking-room of the House of Lords, which is
about the most hallowed place on earth.
The old Christy Minstrels show at St. James’s Hall,.
London, went bung recently. For the past 30 years the
original “"Christy’s ” had been known as the Moore and : .
Burgess Minstrels, and for most of the time the busi-
nf?uWa? run b y the two men whose names figured on top'
t H? e “I’cmy” Moore started life as the “bones”’
of the burnt cork crowd, and was probably a humorist in
his time, although the songs and antics that made him a.
chief attraction would drive an audience out of any hall
nowadays. Burgess was the staid, silent partner who
kept the other fellow within bounds, but even the
influence of Burgess (now deceased) couldn’t prevent
Moore from being known as a rowdy tough. On the
slightest provocation he would stoush his silvery tenor or
unrivalled basso, provided, of course, that the tenor and
basso were not as clever as Pony with their “ dooks.”
Pony Moore loved pugilism for its own sake. He married
his daughter Bella to Charlie Mitchell, the tricky
“ champion of England.” He wasted a lot of his nigger-
show profits in trying to revive the faded “ glory” of the
gory game. It was once recorded of him (in a police
court) that after vainly imploring a cabman to fight him
for the price of the fare, he cried in the language of their
time-honored advt., “The Christy Minstrels never perform
out of London ” and went for the cabman promiscuously.
And now St. James’s Hall has lost its historical semi-circle
of bogus niggers. The Minstrels are numbered with the
things that London doesn’t want, though the Moore and
Burgess Co. (Lim.) can still do a lucrative business in
provincial towns.
Allan, the music-seller of Collins-street, Melb., is bring-
ing out a souvenir of their prize set at the recent poster
ball. The pictures are quite suitable for framing, and all
they ask is a 2d. stamp, the cost of posting.*
Sydney people smiled a rather weary smile when they
read in last Sunday’s Truth that Dampier’s new drama,
“ The Penalty of Crime,” was “ produced to a good house
on Saturday night,” and that “ the audience found it much
to their taste and demonstrations of approval were fre-
quent. The drama was well staged, some of the scenery
being distinctly good.” Also, “the acting, too, in
which Messrs. Dampier, Rolfe, North, and Holloway, and
Misses Lily and Rose Dampier, and Blanche Clements,
won the chief honors, was up to all requirements.”
The wild humor of the thing was that Dampier changed
his mind and kept “ Macbeth ” on for Saturday night, and
the new play didn’t appear till Monday—36 hours after
Truth’s careful and scholarly criticism was laid before the
public. . ■
“George Musgrove was suppered this week,” writes
Thb Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ prior to his
start for your country by the P. and O. Arcadia, which he
picks up at Marseilles. Charley Cartwright, the boyish
youth, Spong, the drily witty philosopher, old Titheradge
the sunshine-seeker, and Charles Warner, the “ Drink” ex-
pert, supported the toasts systematically and conscien-
tiously. John Crook, a well-known composer, goes with
'G. M. to take the musical directorship of Melb. Princess.”
Premier Lyne on Federation at the Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) banquet :
I did not, at the inception of the movement, expect
that its consummation would be reached in my political
life, but now I find that not only is it accomplished, but
as head of the Government I am a guest at a banquet
■celebrating the event.
This country is full of people like Lyne who
don’t expect any great work (except the floating
of loans) to be done in their time. And when
there are enough men who don’t expect any great
work to be done in their time, that is a sufficient
fuarantee that it won’t be done in their time.
'here are many badly-needed things that might
be done if only a lot of people were in Heaven.
Kingston’s election to S.A. Leg. Council
further complicates the local political tangle.
When Kingston went to England, the Holder
Govt.—which contains most of the ex-Premier’s
colleagues—-went for a modified scheme of Fran-
chise reform. Gordon (Att.-Gen.j, who is sponsor
for it, is absolutely opposed to the Kingstonian
measure, and led the Opposition last year. What
will happen now is indeed a mystery, for Kings-
ton was enthusiastically supported last week by
Holder and all the present Ministry, bar Gordon,
who “lay low.” Gordon’s resignation would not
evoke much surprise in political circles.
An idea is extending that the Military
Inquiry Report on the affairs of the St. George’s
Rifles will be held back from publication till the
N.S.W. Parliament rises, and will then be quietly
“mislaid.” Over six months ago, the report
signed by the three members of the Board was
placed in the hands of Colonial-Secretary See.
The forms of the House are being used to prevent
its publication. As Neild, M.P., is commanding-
officer of the Rifles, the matter has more political
than military importance. If the report be ad-
verse to Mr. Neild, the Ministry, by holding it
back, keeps a tactical political hand on that
warrior’s Parliamentary collar.
Apropos the statement made to an Am
tralian daily by a soldier returned from the Trans-
vaal that, “ with the exception of the Scottish
Highlanders and the Irish, who are all champions
to a man, an Australian is equal to two Tommies
(English soldiers) ”: Glasgow Evening News
publishes figures tending to show that the alleged
Anglo-Saxon soldier has either wonderful luck or
a good deal more discretion than Sandy or Pat.
Up to beginning of May, the proportion of casual-
ties among the different troops engaged were—
Irish regiments, 35 per cent.; Scottish regiments,
26 per cent.; English regiments, six per cent.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
■o^
$5
BILLS
DISCOUNTED-
(Qontdepiete fl.«|.Co.,Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*7A CASTLEREACrH ST., *7 4.
SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
«A»
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
Established 1879.
THE
United Australian (Qutual Fire
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
Principal Offices :
79 Pitt Steeet, Sydney ; 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital £500,000
Subscribed Capital .. 251,260
Paid-up Capital .. 40,873
Fire, Plate-Glass; Fidelity Guarantee and Accident
Insurance. Agents required where not represented.
Alfred Websteb, General Manager.
. E. B. McKenny, Secretary.
~ 1 • ~m e .
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—pauitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.I. A., General Manager.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23;4/’oo’> .. £3,196,353 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. IT. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors : R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager : Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Hishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with aerency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia, Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
ICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on MONDAY, sth NOVEMBER, for MORTGAGE
BONDS, bearing interest at THREE per cent. Tender
forms and conditions supplied at all SAVINGS BANKS
in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
THE SAVINGS BANK IN VICTORIA
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
file Bank of Iforth Queensland
LI MITKI).
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director -JAMES BURNS, Esq.
A. J. Cn arkkr. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£ioo,ooo
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders 250,000 ... £350.000
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE"!
GEELONG
PORTLAND f
WARRNAMBOOL J
Peregrine, Saturday, Oct. 6,1 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Oct. 13,1 p-m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Tyrian, Sat., Oct. 6, 2 p.m.
-Burwah, Tues., Oct. 9, 5 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Oct. 13, 2 p.m
GLADSTONE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Tyrian, Sat., Oct. 6, 2 p.m.
Peregrine, Sat., Oct. 13, 2 p.m.
LUCINDA POINT i
GERALDTON l
CAIRNS. &c. I
Lass.- o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb€ Trustees, €x€c6torS,
AND
BgSOCV Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : P. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. ... 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
Queensland Smelting (Joiispy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager
for Australasia, Aldershot, Queensland, or to the Branch
Office, 52 Market-street, Melbourne.
CITY mutuaTflre
INSURANCE CO., Ltd,
HEAD OFFICE, 95 PITT-ST., SYDNEY.
Security to Insurers £3,000,000.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,010,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman ; Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C. ; Hon. Richard Jones, M.L.C.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors :
W. L. Docker and E. S. Cape.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. Youl, K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
United iQSOraQcc Co.
(LIMITED.)
Read Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Bents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Mates very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
af
fringes,
Natural Curly, from 3/0 eadk
PLAITS and TAILS,
StHn. tong, 5/0. all real haiz.
CUTTINGS & COMBINES
< •orlted up, 2/0 per oz.
wo ore (be ehisapeStin iO
troll a for all Bair (Vorfc,.
Send Color of Bair- :r
W*H?Wigz«Mj
‘.llowniiAM Stobw/'T"”
corner of Palmer-etrwrt,
4 SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will atop at Door-
Seed stamps for full Prioe List-
Protppt atteutioti'giyeo to Country Oni<m
afaf
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, CALLING at PLYMOUTH and
LIVERPOOL Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz.:—
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail 10th October.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
APRIO, PERSIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell-st., Sydney, and Watt-st., Newcastle.
VIA AMERICA
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINFA
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer,
MARIPOSA
MOANA
ALAMEDA
Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at 1 p.m.
3158 Oct.
4000 Nov.
3158 Dec.
Leave
Auckland,
24 Oct.
21 Nov.
19 ! Dec.
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
29!Novemberl6
26 December 14
24 January 11
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
KT. D. L.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL FLEET.
. . COMPRISING .
129 Steamers of a Total Tonnage of
506,754; Horse-power, 403,245.
Mileage run in 1899, 3,545,000 ; Over 3| million Pas-
sengers carried since 1857.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, London,
Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney, General Agents.
NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia.
LINCOLN, STUART&CO.
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
262 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
.I::
a
i
Our Suit to order at 425. is
marvellous value; made from
all-wool Tweeds,Vicunas,or fast
color Serges ; it is perfect fitting*
and beautifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order from
any class tf material, U 3 3s. To
measure, capital Trousers, very
good patterns, 12s. 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure. £s#
Clerical Suits, to measure.
Riding Brepches, 255.
Riding Habits, &c.
We supply ready-made. Men’s
L capital Tweed Suits. 21s. & 255.
f Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 255.
All-wool, fawn, grey, or brown
Sergei ette Suits, 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss, lid.
All-wool blue and black Vicuna
Sacs and Vests, 19» 6d.
Men’s Grass Cloth Summer
Suits, 19s. 6d. White Drill
Sacs and Trousers, 10s. Cd,
Khaki Suits, shrunk, 12s 6d.
Black and Grey Alapaca Sacs,
Os. 9d, White and Brown Drill
Trousers. 3s. 9d., 4s. 9d., ss. Gd.
Travelling Trunks, Bags and
Rugs in great variety.
Men’s White Shirts, colored
front and cuffs, 2s. 9d.
Fancy Blouse Shirts, new
designs, ss. 6d.
White Matte Shirts, collar and
pocket, 3s. fid.
So:t Alpine Hats, 4s. 6d., all
colors.
Hard Hats, 4*. 6d. Caps, Is,
Merino Undershirts or Pants,
ls.9d,
Neckties, all shapes and colors.
Is.
White Shirts to measure. Gents’ splendid Balmoral Boots,
6s. Od., Os. <;d.
We like to write letters; so don't be afraid to ask for any
information. Our book, “ The Philosophy of Dress.” and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free.
Write for them.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Silk cloth, sills
marker, 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to ancl from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Cintra, Friday, Oct. 5.
Transhipping at Melbourne.
S.S. Wollowra, Sat., Oct. 6,
Without Transhipment.
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
October 5.
Best and Cheapest Route, to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A.U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
c l V ans # able the A.U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. C
oy. ' Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THIS POPULAR PASS 10 NO UK LINIS.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and. COOKTOWN MAIL LINE Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON Bi weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN - Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Pussenf/er Accomniodu/tion, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port betvveen Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and YV. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports.
P. AND O. COMPANY,
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows •
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
Sydney,
Noon
Steamer.
Commander.
HIMALAYA .
ARCADIA ...
*OCEANA ..
BRITANNIA..
INDIA
W. L. Broun, R N.R.
6603 A. C. Loggin .. Oc.t.
6603 L. H. Crawford, C.8.,R. N.R. Nov.
6525 F. 11. Seymour . Nov.
■7911 W. D. G. Worcester, R.N.R. Dec.
5
20
I
17
... 1
* Leaving two days earlier on account of the Melb. races;
The Company’s steamers now call at Fremantle
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, ±35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, ±65 to ±llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia, Exchange Corner, Pitt and Bridge Streets.
Huddart, parker £ go’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. ANP A.” LINE.
The Steamships of the above Company will be despatched
as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(H‘|luirailh, f|)‘Eacharn& |Jo,
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotal ions, apply
M'll-wraitli, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & 00. LTD.,
„ „ Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritime s
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
Will liq rliov-vo A/T/'Y'VrrnTTr -\r r.n .
rASHitJNGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including l table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGLTS W
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
company them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
COl i > rl a - ” or ’ ,s are available for return by P. and O.
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company sOffices,
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Prinoipal Agent.


PUBLIC NOTICE.
to Frustrate Base and Worthless Imitations, FISHER
grsstered the word “ALOK” as a TRADE MARK. In the future
brated KOLA NUTS) willTbe known “ai am ° us * and Original Tonic (freshly prepared from the cele-
’ be known as ALOK -’ Any Bottle without this word cannot be the GENUINE ARTICLE.
being served with “ a ’ R ftt e r" * Tt * y V ° rth!esS Imitation, they derive no benefit. Insist upon
Wonderful Virtues. ‘ alok^, B J dS, r *^™l T „ M prepared 1,1 both forms . ««“* lining the same Therapeutic and
T, , it ' , , ~ beneficial, and appetising drink i„ the mornings and before each me,l.
' d ate ™-y Hotel and Refreshment Room throughout Australia with Soda Water at 6d. per Glass
— —J - KM v U/VI L/tArf
Ask your Chemist— Ask your Grocer
Bottle at 2/6 and 4/6
a
FISHER
COMPANY
8l
have
expended
£20,000
placing: their Famous Tonic “ ALOK ” on the
over
m
AUSTRALIAN
Market,
mitators
spend
comparatively
nothing:
and
not
beware
what
care
they
IMPOSTERS
sell,
of
so
IMITATORS
and
A
to
W
m
WM
m
iA^'
:\
SOT
1
i
n
r 1
7//st
'//
cagp-vr-im
/
IG
W
P
HE
PI
A\
u
af
af
PdULTRY
L£AN meat
WHITE
Fleshed
af
Toast
MINERAL
Whisky.
Drinks
CIftRET
Advance in Tonics
x
The Alosf Modern Tonic
id
z
r\
c
REC/STERED TRADE MARK
9
FAMOUS
FRESH L Y
PREPARED FROM THE
CELEBRATED AFRICAN KOLA NUTS
(C 7/a Acum ha/a) THE 0 RIGINAL AND GENUINE.
TH E
GREATEST
PICK-ME-UP
IN THE
WORLD.
UNINTOXICATING .
IT MAkES YOU EAT.
IT MAKES YOU STRONG
CLEANSES THE PALATE
CURES HEADACHE
CLEARS THE LIVER
CURES INDIGESTION
SAVES DOCTOR’S BILLS
ALL CHEMISTS
MIGHTY ALOK’ 9
BY THE SINGLE DRINK WITH
SODA-WATER AT EVERY HOTEL
AND REFRESHMENT ROOM
ask forXLoKand SEE THAT YOU
GET IT.
2\ >&4fe
PER BOTTLE
CABBAGE
VWETABLJI
£
to
ZOjy
&
LETTUCE
WJI"
Cauliflower
IJS'AO ri
af
FRUIT
Appue.
&
’GAPE'S
Orange
HEAD OFFICE,PHARMACY 337 GEORGES!SYDNEY
MELBOURNE LABORATORY, 4O7, COLLINS’S!
NEARLY
OPPOSITE
G.P.O)


Minister O’Sullivan’s comment upon G.
H. Reid’s insinuation that the former took a
“No-Yes” attitude (advocating one thing in the
Freeman’s Journal, of which he was the editor,
and another view politically) with regard to the
Boer war:—
Simply flapdoodle! I left the Freeman to join the
Lyne Govt, on the 14th Sept. The Boer war did not start
till 11th Oct. of same year. The present editor of the
Freeman also givesan absolute denial to Mr. Reid’s reckless
assertion. I have never written an article on the Boer war
for any paper since taking office, and have always upheld
the British view in the conflict.
The Bulletin is requested to publish
this:—
A gentleman 30 years old, 5ft. 9in. in height, with fair
hair and moustache, and calling himself Walter Morley
Martin (though he admits this to be an assumed name),
has been taken to a London asylum on the ground of in-
sanity. He was staying at the Great Eastern Hotel,
Bishopsgate-street, and had in his possession a lot of
money with which he behaved very strangely and care-
lessly. He previously stayed at the Red Lion Hotel,
Cromer, and the manager of the Great Eastern holds
£582 belonging to the patient, who has been heard to say
he has a brother in N.S. Wales.
N.S.W. Leg. Council, fanning itself with
the S.M. Herald, takes its partial success in the
tilt over the Sydney Corporation Bill as a good
omen of what will happen when the Conciliation
and Arbitration Bill come3 along. The mere
mention of this latter Bill excites sputters of
“Iniquitous! Shameless! Class-tyranny!” and
other objurgations. One noble senator, with a
snowy head, carries about a letter which appeared
in the Herald and reads it to his neighbors
almost hourly. This letter tells how “ ungrateful
it is of men to set themselves up against those who
feed them,” and suchlike foolishness. But the
snowy head bobs emphatic assent at every sen-
tence, and the other white heads and white beards
do the same and a snowdrift of approving whis-
kers gathers around. Only that the teeth of the
Council are not good it could be guaranteed to
eat the Arbitration Bill on sight.
At last N.S W. celebration of the 12th of
July the P.W.X.M.Q., or something like that,
who presided, hinted that the approaching Federal
elections would be run on sectarian lines as far as
Cticable. The blundering bishop from Maori-
has played right into the hands of the L.O.L.,
who will have an easier task than seemed possible.
Ex-Premier Reid dropped to this soon enough,
hence, no doubt, his appearance on the platform
at the anti-R.C. demonstration at Sydney Town
Hall. He does not forget the victory of nine out
of the ten selected “ Protestant party candidates”
run by the churches against Card. Moran at the
Federal Convention elections, and the heavy polling
of M'Gowen, whose votes were far beyond those of
his colleagues of the Labor-party simply because
he was bunched by the Protestants in their ten.
It will be a heavy price to pay for this unhappy
episode if N.S. W. is deprived of the services of
her ablest Catholic politicians in the first Aus-
tralian Parliament.
David Syme has undertaken to pay the
expenses of the new Spencer-Gillen expedition to
study the conditions of aboriginal life in North-
Central Australia. The Bulletin does not mean
it ungraciously; but David can well afford the
£2000 said to be implied, and it was the obvious
thing for David to do. One hopes his example
will stimulate some of Australia’s mean-spirited
semi-millionaires to do something better with
their surplus cash than subsidising expeditions to
slaughter Boers, or endowing churches to
slaughter Truth. One of these unenvi-
able gentry was met the other day look-
ing very woebegone. “What’s the mat-
ter?” enquired his friend. “To tell the truth,”
replied the man of money, “ I’ve been awfully
worried lately. I’ve got a loose £140,000 that I
can’t get a decent investment for anywhere; and
its been on my mind.”
Franz Joseph Pilsener Lager Beer is
simply booming. Last winter the sales were from
200 to 800 cases every month, in excess of what
they were last winter. There is every proof that
lager will be the national drink before long, and
already it is pushing English ale almost out of
.the market.
Sydney ferry companies point oat that the
strict enforcement of the new Navigation Act is
going to play the deuce with their dividends.
Without delivering judgment at present, The
Bulletin is glad to see that the Act is likely to
improve the breed of steamboats. The number of
little launches, without boats or sufficient safety
appliances, that have been accustomed to risk
the voyage round Middle Head on stormy
days, is a caution to passengers. One
steamboat-proprietor points out that there has
been no loss of life hitherto. But there have been
Borne mighty narrow squeaks ; and if it’s all the
same to the steamboat-proprietor—or if it isn’t—
we’ll set our boats in order before the big
catastrophe, not after. It’s full time, too, the
Leichhardt, Lane Cove, Mort’s Dock and North
Sydney companies provided double-ended boats
such as they use in New York, with entrance
and exit at bow and stern, so that 30 people can
walk on or off abreast. The method of filing
singly over a gangway or two is out-of-date in
communities where a big population has to be
transhipped a short distance quickly. But if the
community does not kick, no ferry co. ever will.
The Essayist.
We live in an age of literary and mutual im-
provement societies where the literary aspirant
tries his wings and seeks to write elegantly and
graphically on all sorts of subjects, from Shakes-
peare’s plays to the art of photography, or from
the description of a holiday jaunt to the latest
discoveries in astronomy. The literary society,
as an institution, does excellent work in checking
vanity by its good-natured criticisms. The
scribbler who imagines himself an embryo
Macaulay finds himself severely handled if he
builds up a fabric with “ fine writing ” without a
good and solid foundation of fact and sense. He
gets to learn that thorough knowledge of a subject
will carry him much further than well-sounding
phrases, pretty figures of speech or poetic imagery.
These are all well in their way, but people like to
hear something new, or an assurance of well-
authenticated facts from someone who has studied
his subject. Hence a “plain, unvarnished tale”
of something which cannot be contradicted tells
much more with the general hearer or reader than
any amount of flimsy rhetoric. This was recog-
nised bv T. Pickup, Esc}., Ex-Councillor, Family
Hotel, Grlenelg. He writes : “It is novv five years
ago that I suffered from my liver and kidneys. I
had severe pains across my loins and under the
shoulder-blades, which made me very depressed
and disinclined to attend to business. Doctors
failing to relieve me, I made up my mind to try
Warner’s Safe Cure. I gave ita fair trial, taking
in all about ten bottles, with the gratifying result
that I am perfectly cured.”*
The rather popular Major Reay, editor of
Melb. Herald, was to give a free lecture on the
Transvaal war at N. Melb. Town Hall the other
night, but so slim was the attendance that the
lecture had to be postponed. Which shows—
Dear Bulletin.— Re that Sydney D.T.
varn (“ Suspicious,” 22/9/’00) about the ring in the
lady’s pocket. Present writer knows the lady in
question, and the D.T. version was quite correct.
— V ulcan. [Astounding coincidence ! —Ed. B.]
Brisbane Courier advt. :
A FEW Single GIRLS by the Duke of Sutherland
will be open for ENGAGEMENT at the Immi-
gration Depot at 9 o’clock THIS (Wednesday) MORN-
ING, 26th.
“ Long live the Duke.”
At the sittings of the N.S.W. Military
Inquiry chairman Sleath, M.L.A., subjected
Major-Gen. French to many fishing questions as
to whether undue pressure had been brought to
bear upon him in the appointment of officers to
the S’African contingents. Chairman Sleath:
“Speaking about pressure, was any brought to
bear upon you to get anyone appointed ? ” The
General: “There was only one case in which
pressure was brought to bear, and that was to get
you appointed.”
If the Christian Endeavourers, lately
“ session mg ” in Sydney, get much of their legis-
lative programme through, there are gruesome
times ahead for the “ cakes-and-ale ” party of the
community. Hotels to be closed earlier ; gambling
in every form to be squashed; all shops to be
rigidly closed on Sunday, &c., &c. —each item
being received with a “ roar of affirmation ” from
5000 throats. Nevertheless, ginger will probably
continue as “hot i’ the mouth” as ever it was.
Cold Tea is a most inhuman thing.
Of the female missionaries lately done to
death in the Shansi province of China, one was
gradually dispatched by drawing a cart to-and-
fro across her body, another had her skull frac-
tured so that the brain protruded and mortified,
and a third was stripped and exposed till the
fierce sun produced sores in her flesh, these being
visited by the flies, so that before her death the
miserable creature was swarming with maggots.
What punishment is great enough for the smug
stay-at-home “saints” who encourage fool-women
to risk such horrors—and to absolutely no pur-
pose !
What a palpable lie was that recent cable
to the effect that in Botha’s retreat from Lyden-
burg many of the men were roped to carts in order
to prevent their fleeing to their homes ! What is
the good of a soldier who has to be tied up to
prevent his running away? It would be more
profitable to shoot him. Moses knew better :
And the officers shall speak further unto the people,
and they shall say : “ What man is there that is fearful
and faint-hearted, let him go and return unto his house
lest his brethren’s heart faint as well as his heart.”
That is a chunk of military wisdom of which a
Bible-reader like Botha could hardly be ignorant.
The painful fact has been disinterred that
English law (as set forth in a legal decision of the
’70’s. Queen v. Harrald) holds that, even when
woman-suffrage is legalised, the voting power
does not extend to married women unless they are
specifically mentioned. Extending the suffrage
to ‘‘women” in a general way, according to this
decision, only enfranchises spinsters; the married
women is supposd to be so completely merged in
her husband that she ceases to be even legally a
woman. Vic. Attorney-General Irvine was so
seriously impressed by this view of the matter
that he specially enfranchised married women in
his Female Suffrage Bill—not that it mattered
much, as the House of 48 Rich Landlords has just
fired it out for the fifth time.
Not so many years ago in Victoria a man
who had stolen valuables from a certain church
(the church to which, by the way, the presiding
Judge belonged) was sentenced at Criminal
Sessions to somewhere between 10 and 21 years’
penal servitude. T’other day at Sydney Water
Police Court, for breaking open the poor-box at
St. Mary’s Cathedral and stealing £3 3s. 6d., a
P.M. gave the culprit a month—and let him out
as a first offender ! The old special indictment of
“sacrilege,” and the holy horror which Courts
used to assume on such occasions, were common-
sensically dropped, and the offender and his
offence were treated on plain business lines.
Robbing a church poor-box is infamous; but
robbing the pocket of a washerwoman is just as
bad.
Elegant extracts from letter of a trooper
of the 5th Maoriland contingent, gravely published
in a M.L. Jingo paper :—
When we come to Boer properties, we rob them of all
their oranges. We came across a large Boer store, and
took everything to be found. . . . Brownie and I know
where there is a Boer house, with three geese and some
fowls, and we intend to take them for our dinner to-
morrow. . . . We fill bags of oranges whenever we come
across trees. The Boer women come out crying, and we
laugh at them. . . . Scouts have just caught 11 Boers in
our rear. I would like to find one by myself ; I would put
his lights out.
And Trooper C. E. McLean, of the 1st M.L. con-
tingent, writes: —
A party of the Colonial Horse, which is composed of
cowboys and backwoodsmen from Canada, who nearly- all
carry their lassoes with them, cut off a party of Boers
and captured them, and, before any of their officers could
stop them, had five of the Boers strung up.
“ Throttle-valve ” writes about Boilers :
Present Vic. law provides for rigorous inspection of all
mining boilers, but otherwise allows any irresponsible
syveating employer to erect and work, either in town or
country, any contrivance he may dignify by the name of
boiler, without inspection of any kind. The Act provides
“ that a boiler not used in connection with an engine
need only be placed in charge of an adult ’’—apparently
oblivious of the fact that it is the boiler which is the
menace to the lives of those employed in its vicinity and
not the engine. Also nothing is said as to the person in
charge of the machine possessing even the most rudi-
mentary knowledge of the art of steam-raising. Last year
several instances occurred of men being blown to'bits
through raising heads of steam that the tin-kettles they
were in charge of were never constructed or intended to
stand. In England boiler explosions have been rendered
very rare by means of an efficient yearly inspection, and
also by the fact that a “ busted biler” may involve the
owner in heavy pecuniary loss over and above the amount
ofactualdamagetohisownpropert.v. Remarkable indeed is
the rarity of loco-boiler explosions in that country, where
over 20,000 loco’s are working daily. This is due to excel-
lent construction with careful working and regular inspec-
tion. All boiler-explosions, in fact, are prevent ihle if (l)a
standard-test is required before erection and (2) regular
half-yearly or yearly inspection takes place. The pro-
posed new Vic. Bill provides that “no person shall erect or
be in possession of a steam-boiler without giving notice to
an inspector, who shall be required to keep a register of
all in his district, and inspect same at least once In every
12 months.” But power should also be given the in-
spector to prohibit on the spot the raising or maintaining
of steam should the appliances appear to him in any way
doubtful, and a heavy penalty should also be provided in
case of infringement. Provided all is satisfactory, a cer-
tificate to that effect should be posted up in a conspicuous
place, so that, in the event of a change in the employes, a
newcomer could see exactly what sort of an affair he was
looking after, and not go about his work in constant fear
of death, as is so often the case at present.. With the
present enormous and increasing use of steam in all kinds
of industries, such an Act as this is urgently required in
all the provinces.
Owing to the difficulty of securing a fair
population basis if the province were split up into
districts, S.A. Assembly has decided that the
seven members of the Federal House of Repre-
sentatives to which it is entitled Bhall be elected
by the whole State voting as one district. This
will shut out political nonentities who might have
prevailed on smaller constituencies to elect them.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THE CITY DRAMATIC SOCIETY wiU stage
“THE VAHA.BOIWD»
(Henry Petit’s famous four-act Comedy-Drama)
By kind consent of Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Dampier,
On FRIDAY, the sth Instant,
In aid of the Funds of the PRINCE ALFRED HOSPITAL,
Sydney.
Under the Patronage of the Chief Justice, Sir Frederick
Darley, K.C.M.G. ; The Hon. G. H. Reid, P.O. ; The
Hon. Edmund Barton, Q.O. ; and a large and influen-
tial committee of prominent gentlemen.
Secure tickets early, and support one of the most de-
serving of local charities.
Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
SONGS TO SING
PIECES TO PLAY
Nos. 9 and 10
m
m
.. OF ...
ALLAN’S ..
Australian
Music
Books
Each will Cost you 1 /-, or Posted 1/2.
No. 9.—Popular Piano-
forte Pieces.
The Wedding March
Mendelssohn
Pasquinade Gottschalk
L’Adieu Beethoven
Ivanhoe Grand March
Blake
Shepherd’s Evening Song
Galos
Melody in F Rubinstein
Danse Elegante
Alberto Kessler
Dying Poet, The
Gottschalk
Traumerei Schumann
No. 10.—Thirteen Sacred
Songs, &c.
O, Rest in the Lord
Mendelssohn
Consider the Lilies Topliff
Faith Stephen Glover
Hope Stephen Glover
Charity Stephen Glover
He Shall Feed His Flock
Handel
In Native Worth Haydn
If with all Your Hearts
Mendelssohn
I Know that My Redeemer
Handel
Angels ever Bright and
Fair Handel
He was Despised Handel
I will Sing of Thy Great
Mercies, O Lord
Mendelssohn
Story of the Cross
FULL LIST Sent FREE for the Asking.
No. 11, appearing- Next Week, contains
“ Easy Pieces for Little Children.”
Obtainable at all Musicsellers throughout
Australia, or direct from the Publishers,
ALLAN & CO. 276 & 278 Collins-st.,
Proprietary Ltd. Melbourne.
THE HOTELKEEPERS’ FRIEND-
i
s
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labor required. Anyone can learn to
operate the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“ To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs. —The Machine purchased from you is per-
fect. The Stuff turned out is splendid. It is the best
speculation I have entered into since I joined the Licensed
Victuallers. —Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says “It is worth
its WEIGHT IN GOLD.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Coolgardie, says “ Profits saved by
making my own supplies of Aerated Waters with the
Machine pay tife rent of my hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, Heidelberg, Victoria, says “ I have made
thousands of dozens of the best Aerated Waters with the
Machine, and it has not required sixpence worth of
repairs. No Hotelkeeper should be without one of
them.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W..
says:—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Yalgo, W.A., says:—“Since getting one of
your Machines, and making my own soft stuff, I have
saved its price ten times over.”
W. H. Jones, Peak Hill, W.A., says:—“Machine great
success.”
E. Davis, Peak Hill, W.A., says Cannot speak too
highly of effectiveness and simplicity.”
G. N. Murdoch, Abbotts, W.A., says:—“Value of
Machine indisputable ; quality and cheapness of stuff
unquestionable.”
T. H. Williams, Mossman, Queensland, says : “ Highly
successful, and recommend to all hotelkeepers.”
J. S. Davidson, Bundaberg, Queensland, says : “ Great
saving compared to previous cost of stock.”
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many small
centres of population, where a deeply-felt want exists for
A GOOD QUALITY OF AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE THE PROFITS.
Call and see these Machines, or write for Circular describ-
ing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water Co.
407 COLUNS-STREET, MELBOURNE.
YORK HOTEL,
ADELAIDE.
B. B. ROENNFELDT.
ORNAMENTAL HAIR.
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d to 30s each. English Hair
Tails, 5s 6d to £3 3s. Send Pattern of Hair and write for
any Information. Country Orders receive our prompt
and careful attention.
HAIRDRESSERS & WIGMAKERS.
Send to us for Price Lists of Anything you want.
Human Hair of every Description in Stock.
Agents for the Royal Lounge Hairdressing Chair.
Evert Requisite for Saloon Use in Stock.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Hew South Wales . .
Barbers’ Supply House
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
Amusements.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
FAREWELL PERFORMANCE of the CRANE-
POWER COMPANY.
EVERY EVENING, the finest example of Romantic
Drama Australia has ever seen,
“ The Only Way,”
adapted from Charles Dickens’ Great Story, “ A Tale
of Two Cities.”
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, ss; Stalls and Family
Circle, 3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
F ,T . Z °J! RA, - D B *o.-8 CIRCUS, MENAGERIE
r AND NEW CONTINENTAL COMPANY.
PATRONISED NIGHTLY BY THOUSANDS.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
The Season will Shortly Close, so do not miss seeing us
Location: BENEVOLENT SOCIETY’S GROUNDS.
(Opp. Redfern Railway Station).
The Change of Programme a Great Success.
P UNBAR TRI0 > MDLLE. RHODESIA, the
JANDASCIIEVSKY FAMILY, SISTERS WINGATE
ROSE AQUINALDO, THE OINNEZALLAS, KARL
BROTHERS, MDLLE. KATIE AND MDLLE. MAR-
GARETTA, GUILLAUME AND AUGUSTE, and the
Full Circus Co.
The Great and Screamingly Funny “ TOREADOR
SKETCH.”
The Sensational High-Jumping Contest between “New-
haven,” “Cadet,” “Playboy” and “Stockman.”
THE RIDING TIGER
and
the Musical Burlesque, “ DAMEN OAPELLE,” intro-
duced by the “ Jandaschevskys.”
Matinees: WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
The Splendid Band of 20 Performers, under the con-
ductorship of Herr Von der Mehden.
PRICES : 45., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
J. MORRIS, Agent. F. JONES, Press Rep
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
THE NANCE O’NEIL SEASON.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION of Sardou’s Great Play,
FED ORA.
NANCE O’NEIL as FEDORA.
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
*|"HEATRE ROYAL, "
UNBRIDLED ENTHUSIASM and WARMEST
CORDIALITY
Extended by Press and Public to
BLAND HOLT’S
Great Gala Melodramatic Attraction,
" ktew BABYLOKT.”
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
rTtERIOIM THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Damfier.
ALFRED DAMPIER’S POPULAR COMPANY.
MISS LILY DAMPIER, the Australian Tragedienne.
The Penalty of Crime.
FRIDAY, MACBETH.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST NIGHTS. LAST NIGHTS.
6th WEEK of the JONES BOOM.
CHARLES ARNOLD
Supported by his English Comedy Company,
in George 11. Broadhurst’s Enormously Successful Farce
Comedy,
What Happened to Jones.
PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
L. J. LOIIR, Manager.
ICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
A GREAT ATTRACTION,
THE DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN.
One of the most Popular Teams that has ever Appeared,
THE THREE HAYTORS.
Extraordinary Success,
4 THE WILLIAMS I'AMILY. 4
FERRY, THE HUMAN FROG, WALLACE KING,
and all our Great Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday,
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE. '
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Prolonged Applause Greets England’s Burlesque Queen,
BILLEE BARLOW.
Gigantic and Enthusiastic Success of PAUL’S ANIMATO-
GRAPHE, THE PATTERSON BROS., America’s Wonderful
Horizontal Bar Performers.
Mr. HARRY SHINE, Mr. TOD CALLAWAY, Miss
JESSIE WILLIAMS, Mr. WILL WHITBURN, and
all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
T~ HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
SATURDAY, OCT. 6, FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALASIA,
The New East Lynne.
The mournful play of “EAST LYNNE” transformed
into a healthy comedy which retains the interest of the
old play whilst providing laughter in place of tears.
.JOHN F. SHERIDAN and GRACIE WHITEFORD,
supported by a largely augmented co.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Tales of the Convict System :
By “Price Warung.” Paper covers,
193 pp. ; 6d.


Three Years
Liver Trouble.
CLEMENTS TONIC SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR CURE.
The Case of
Mrs. KATHERINE GARLAND.
(BY our special reporter.)
“ Your visit) has come as a pleasant
surprise to me,” was the remark with which
Mrs. Garland, of No. 4 Denham-street,
burry Hills, greeted the reporter from this
journal, as it saves me the trouble of
writing to you about my bad attack of liver
complaint, from which I suffered terribly.
I am a very poor correspondent at the best
ot times, preferring like most members of
my sex, to receive letters rather than write
*T?. m i- am 80 conscious of a deep
obligation to Clements Tonic for restoring
me to health that I made up my mind to
write expressing my gratitude, and as you
have obviated that duty I will gladly give
the fullest details. 8 y b
“How iong did your liver trouble afflict
you . asked the reporter.
“ For full y three years, and I hope it will
never come on again. Do you know, I
believe I would rather be dead than
continue like I was then. The first sign of
. y,.f. ln S health was an unaccountable
fastidiousness regarding my food. I some-
times felt like eating a little, and as soon as
ft was before me I should turn right against
it, and do nothing but mince and turn it
over, then finally leave it alone. There'
was always a sickly, sour taste in my mouth,
my tongue being so dry and rough,
particularly in the morning, and I was often
peized with a fit of vomiting, which was
invariably followed by the act of belching
distasteful gases from the stomach. The
operation of ridding myself of the bile and
s°jr wind from the stomach caused me no
end of discomfort and pain, and blinding
headaches were frequently experienced
after J had been retching. Heavy pains in
the shoulders, and sometimes in the chest,
often paid me more attention than was
agreeable, as they made me form the
opinion that I was slowly falling into the
clutches of some dreadful disease. Indeed,
this idea was made all the more likely by
the yellowish hue of my skin, and my eyes
became a dirty green colour. Liver spots
also came out on my chest. Besides the
pains in the chest and shoulders, I would
have severe attacks in the side, and they
were so excessively tormenting that I had
to apply hot fomentations, but they only
gave temporary relief, and made the next
attack more acute. It was next door to
impossible to ever get a brief respite from
my many ailments, for I could scarcely ever
get to sleep, and the little repose that did
occasionally come to me was marked by
unpleasant dreams and restlessness. On
awakening it required a great stretch of
imagination to believe I had slept at all,
ao weary and fatigued would I feel. My
limbs ached with sheer weakness, and I’m
sure I was an object deserving compassion
when crawling about the house in my vain
efforts to do a little housework, only to sit
down quite exhausted and fret for hours
When I wanted to stand up I had to do so
carefudy and steadily, otherwise a fainting
giddiness would take charge of me, and my
head would whirl round like a spinning
wheel These fainting sensations left me
dreadfully depressed and low-spirite;>, and
i sat or lay brooding over my misfortunes
till I got very melancholy. There was not
an ounce of flesh on my bones. So weak and
debilitated had I become that I was almost
afraid to look in the glass.”
You look remarkably well now how-
ever, Mrs. Garland.”
“ Yes, th uik God, I am like I used to be
bet >re my three years’ sickness But you
have hod learned all my troubles. The
worst and most terrifying thing has yet to
be described. ©I have not yet mentioned the
anxiety my heart used to cause me. You
do not think I look like a won an whose
heart is diseased, do you ? No ; I’m sure
l (ton t. But I was almost worried to death
with that thought when I was so ill. My
heart used to start suddenly heating with
such violence that I dreaded it stopping or
easing off, in case it would stop for ever.
Hut it would quieten down after nearly
scaring the life out of me, only to start
again with renewed rapidity. I have since
earned that palpitation of the heart occurs
m liver disease cases when they are very
serious, so mine must have been a very bad
case.”
And what treatment did you receive
from your doctor ? ”
t j usual—medicines and pills, and
I dont mind telling you that the liquids
they termed medicines did me no end of
injury. Why, I used to loathe the thought
°* . swa^ow^n § > the smell was offensive
and the taste was disgusting. f But I
persevered with them for three years’ all to
no purpose. Then a friend told me that
Clements Tonic was the best thing for me to
take, which I did, and you can see the
result for yourself. Clements Tonic seemed
a little bitter at first, but I could soon drink
it like water, without any reluctance what-
ever. But even if it had been gall I would
have drank it, because it brought about my
convalescence in no time. I told my doctor
I would rather have Clements Tonic than all
his stuff, as it was doing me good, and his
physic had completely failed. He replied :
* Well, I’ll not make much out of you now.’’
And he spoke truthfully, for I can be
independent of all doctors now. I rapidly
experienced ease from pains in the stomach,
chest and shoulders, and the easing of pains
in the head brought delightful, soothing
sleep. My appetite came back, and I did
not notice any discomfort after eating. The
liver spots were eradicated, and my skin
recovered its usual colour. No more fears
of heart worried me, as the palpit-
atiou disappeared with the other disagree-
able symptoms. To be as brief as possible,
I must candidly admit that Clements Tonic
is solely responsible for my cure.. When my
son-in-law was up in the mountains he wrote
saying he was sick, and I sent him a couple
of bottles of Clements Tonic to Katoomba.
He subsequently thanked me, stating that
the medicine I had forwarded had cured
him. One of my daughters has been under
treatment during the past twelve months
for asthmatical bronchitis (another doctor
says it is heart disease she has got). They
have, not done her the least good with their
ph} sic, so lately she has been taking
Clements Tonic. She has had three bottles
up to now, and she is making good progress
in the right direction. I believe Clements
Tonic will make a woman of her again. My
faith in it is without limit, and I am so
grateful for its effect upon myself and
relatives that you can publish my testimony
as much as you plea l e.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Katherine Garland, of No. 4 Denham-street,
Surry Hills Sydney, in the Colony of New South
Wales, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, consisting of
five folios, and consecutively numbered from one to
five, and that it contains and is a true and faithful
account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic
and also contains my full permission t r publish in any
way my statements—which I give*, olunt aril y, without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, on,l by virtue of the provisions of an Act made
and passed in the ninth r ear of the reign of her
present Majesty- intituled “An Act for the more
effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations taken
and made in the various Departments of the Cover i-
ment of New South Wales, and to substitute Declara-
tions in lieu thereof, and for the suppression of
voluntary and Extra-judicial Oaths and Affidavits.”
Declared at Surry Hills, this 11th day of August
one thousand nine hundred, before me,
A. DAVIDS') " 1 T-.
oCfahUiafti&ucd. -
“ LAWRUS ” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
MAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
every yard is stamped
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
OUUJUtd
af
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
STOCDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, George St., Sydney.
THE * BBAUTIFUL FABRIC.
fOUiS* Velveteen.
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-O-IH-S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
SS~ THIS IS THE LATEST TYPE !
GRAMOPHONE —or
ZONOPHONE!
af
BARGAINS!
Coin Slot graphophone £r
Same as formerly, £l6. **
Gem Phonograph, 30 -
RECORDS, 2/6 REDUCTION FOR QUANTITY
Everything Reel need. Try !
THE TALKING MACHINE _ DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe Street, Sy.lney (Only),
(near G.P.0.)
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES^md^STOTJT
' Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
<I " 0 DEFY cojvcpjejtitiow.
WINES The Best Brands Only of
&
manufacturers of mineral waters,
SPIRITS.
CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDIBY.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELI
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
beware oe substitutions.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less lime and at Half the price,
SSf to Plum Pudding.
lo stew ed Rice.
SlgggSi £ SU&S ° f p " <Jdi "^
DBMCIOUS to Jam Tarts.
to ali kinds of Fruit
SEcJouI alone. kiadS ° f Fruit Pies ‘
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure aud wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves in the
following flavours Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain. ’
s & Engine.
P esentative. JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Rd.Subiaco,Perth, W.A.&6B,King St.,Melbourne
Business Announcement s
I . . THE . .
I BEST FOOT
FOREMOST
Is an old saying: frequently heard at
home, but how many people have a
best foot" which they care to put
forward? Character is often revealed
by the shape or condition of a shoe.
Can always distinguish the
HJiRZ ’ shoe, because its wearer is
never ashamed of it. . One has a feeling
of being- “well-dressed” if the “HERZ”
shoe is part of our outfit. The reason is
not far to seek
PERFECT SHAPE,
which is never lost in wear.
BEST LEATHER.
The Finest Quality that can be
procured.
ABSOLUTE EASE-
and comfort in all weathers.
W/Ww
Ask for and get
The “ HERZ ” Shoes.
HUNTER’S SELL THEM. '
TTjSj‘l^"
SPOONER’S
SPOONER’S
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
® es k dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), is. V
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressing's,
Etc., Etc.
Storekeepers
Boot Shops, Saddlers, eta.
Medical
A NEW FILM CAMERA.
Price
5/-
Only.
THE
Price
5/-
Oniy.
Despite its low price, the
Brownie Camera is Not a Tot.
It takes splendid photographs,
size x and is Loaded
and Unloaded in Day Lioht.
KODAKS from SS. to £7 15s.
Of all Photographic Dealers
throughout Australasia, and of
ICO DA 1C Ltd.
“THE BLOCK,”
284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Also at London, Paris, BSrlin, Brussels, Vienna, St.
Petersburg, Moscow, and Rochester, N.Y.
Send t or Illustrated Price List, and
mention this Paper.
r GOUT V
PILL S.
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM t
SCIATICA.
LUMBAGO.
tn T Jh Se IfflVa!Ufil)le 1 ffl Va ! Uf i l)Ie . Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not ofaly
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence,
Soie Proprietors, Pkout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout ‘ the
Australian Colonies.


ft
I
4
JH
the. leading house.
NO MIDDLEMEN
WE SAVE YOU 25 TO 50 PERCENT
af
kiikmaa
af
af
£l£|2U(Slj]
No. 201a— Set Links, 9-carat
f; 0 ld, £lls; 15-carat Gold, £2 ;
Silver, 6s 6d.
Lady’s Gold Tie-Oiip, set with
Pearls and Turquoise, 18s 6d.
No. 116a— 9-carat Gold and Fine Amethyst
Brooch, 18s 6d. Superior Design and Fimsh.
No. 193—Set Links, 9-
carat, 15s 6d ; 15-carat,
£llos ; Silver, 4s 6d.
Nr* E7478—9-carat Gold Chain, Bell and Leaf
Brooch, 11s 6d.
No. 021—16-carat Gold and
Fine Opal Links, £4.
No. E7347.—501id Silver Sha> ing Mug,
£4 10s, either Plain or Chased ; Best Silver-
plated, 18s fid and £1 ss.
mmi
Cut-Glass Toilet Bt x, Solid Silver Top. Small, 15s 6d ;
Medium, 21s ; Large, 255.
Very Massive Solid Silver Cake Basket, £l3 10s.
No. 284. Cut-Glass Puffi Box, with
Solid Silver Top, 3in. high, £1 Is.
Others, 9s 6d and 13s 6d.
No. 558.—Very Massive 15c. Gold Broo h, 9 Fine
White Diamonds, £8 10s. Special Value.
No. 150.—15 c. Gold Bracelet, i Diamond, 2 Rubies, £4 Vs 6d.
No. 017.— ! 9c. Gold and Fine Opal Brooch, £1 ss.
No. 139. —9c. Gold Bracelet, Ruby Centre, £1 2s 6d.
No. P3739—Best Silver-plated and
Satin-lined Collar Stud Box,
7s 6d.
Solid Silver Shaving Brushes, 11s 6d, 13s 6d, £1 Is, £ll2s 6d.
m
No 383 A.— Beautifully Chased Cake Basket, Finest Silver-
plate, on Nickel Silver, £2 10s. Others, £1 Is and £llos.
No. 371—Silver-plated Salts
Stand and Spoon, with Fancy
Glass, 3in. high, 5s 6d.
No. 373 Beautiful Silver-plated Toast
Rack, 6 divisions, 7in. long, 12s 6d
No 177.
Gold Keeper, 18c.,
ills.
No. 208.—15 c. Gold
Heart, 10s 6d ;
Oe. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 178. Wedding
Ring, 18c. Gold,
£1 Is.
Heavy, £llss.
No. 193 A.—Set Links.
oc. Gold. 12s 6d ; 15c. Gold,
£1 ss. Silver, 3s 6d.
No. 169.
2 Diamonds, 3
Rubies, 18e. Gold,
£2 12s 6d.
No. 194 A.—Set Links.
Gold, £1 ss; 15c. £2 10s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 163.
6 Fine White Dia-
monds, £6 5s ;
2 Diamonds, 3 Sap-
phires, £3 10s.
No. 21B—Pearl and
Ruby Heart, 9c.
Gold, 16s 6d.
No. 167.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18c. Gold, £2 6s.
Silver-plated Egg Frame 2-Cup,
£1 5s ; 4-Cup, £2 ; 6-Oup, £3 3s.
No. E6Bsl—New Clasp, antique design, very
handsome, heavy make, Solid Silver, £l. (En-
graving drawn half size.) Others, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
18s 6d. Silver-plated, 4s 6d and ss.
No. E 960- Beautiful Silver-plated
cuit Box, £llss.
No. E 7849 A Charming and
Novel Wedding Present. Silver-
plated Egg-Boiler for the Break-
fast-table, £1 ss.
No. 416— Handsome Clock, 7in. high,
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops,
and two Gilt and Leather Traces,
&1 7s 6d.
No. 103.—9 c. Gold Bar Brooch,
10s 6d.
No. 130.— 15 c. Gold. Opal and Diamond Bracelet.
New and Handsome Design, £l2 10s.
No. 016. —16c. Gold and Finest Opal Heart
Brooch, £3.
No 137 —9c Gold Bracelet, set Sapphires and Pearls, £3.
Others at £2, £2 ss, £2 10s, £2 15s.
No. 319 Silver Button-Hooks and Shoe-Lifo>
10s 6d ; smaller size, 11s 6d.
No. 295—Silver-plated Serviette Ring's, 2 in Case,
8s 6d ; 4 in Case, 16s 6d ; 6 in Case, £1 ss.
No. E 946 Morocco Case,
Solid Silver Shell-Pattern
and Knife, £1 5s
containing
Butter-Dish
No. 268a—Set of Solid Silver Manicure Instruments—Nail File,
Scissors and Cuticle Knife, in Case, l<s 6d.
Others, 14s 6d to £6 10s.
Any of the Articles Illustrated above will be sent
Pree and Safe by Post on receipt of Remittance.
Write for our Illustrated Catalogue. Sent Post Pree.
IN/
G\
/o
O
UQ
/o
CA
CA
CA
■<
m


Energy-Destroying Constipation.
EXACT/SIZE
OF-THEBOTiSIIE
ST
5^53
B=
m
?SC.
Hit
KUT NOW’S
improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
2. .
Hirschensprung or Deer Leap.
London: 1
41, FARRJNGDQN ROAD,
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
EXACT, SIZE
OF THE BOTTLE;
KUTNOW’S POWDER Cleanses and Stimulates the Digestive and Excretory
Organs, and Banishes the Constipation their Inactivity Produces. It Removes
the Pallor, Irritability, Insomnia, Low Spirits, Tired Feeling, and the Nerve
Troubles a Constipated Condition causes, and Restores the Body to
Health, Strength, and Vigour.
When the digestive and excretory organs become inactive and deranged, and the bowels are no longer
able to remove the waste matters that result from the digestive processes, these matters remain in the intestines
and some are conveyed by the blood to the brain and nerves, which they poison and irritate, and give rise to the
irritability, insomnia, low spirits, nervousness, and other evidences of a constipated condition.
The only remedy for Constipation lies in restoring the organs to an active, strong, and healthy condition
It is useless to use purgative medicines for this purpose, as whatever effect they may have is only temporary and
they ieave the organs weaker and more inactive than before. As a general strengthened cleanser, and stimulator
ot the digestive and excretory organs nothing will be found more effective than KUTNOW’S Improved Efferves-
cent Carlsbad POWDER. This is not a purgative, nor is it a patented medicine. It is Nature’s remedy for
Constipation, as it is composed of the curative, purifying, and healing properties of the waters of the most noted
mineral springs of Europe. Kutnow’s Powder not only remedies Constipation, but every other disorder of the
stomach, liver, and kidneys for which the wealthier class of people seek relief at these springs.
Kutnow s Powder is a gentle and palatable aperient, which increases the action of the bowels, stomach
and liver by freeing them of the poisonous substances by which they are encumbered and weakened The action
of these organs being thus increased, the waste matters that the digestive processes produce are removed from
the system, and no longer remain to poison the blood, brain, and nerves, and to give rise to the various ailments
that Constipation is responsible for. After a course of Kutnow’s the pallor, irritability, and langour disappear
the ability to eat, work, and sleep returns, the despondency and headache vanish, the nerves are strengthened’
the brain is quickened, and the entire body given renewed vigour.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all Reliable Chemist-
Medicine Vendors, See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschensprung ” (or Deer Lean) and the
facsimile signature, “S. KUTSOW & CO., Ld.,’’ are on the label and carton. Only these ensure
Insist on “KUTNOW’S,” and firmly refuse any substitutes. They may be worthless, probably injurious. '
PROPRIETORS
S. KUTNOW & CO., Ld., 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.C.
PROPRIETORS IN u g a
KUTNOW BROS., Ld., 853 Broadway, New York City.
Business, Robbery, etc.
When the champion mean man loses a dog, he
advertises, offering a small reward, but at same time gets
a friend to advertise having lost a similar dog, and offer-
ing £5 reward. The big reward, of course, “fetches’’
the finder, who is then told-“ No, that is not my dog ’
but I know whose it is.” Finder is then taken to the
mean man, who gives him ss.
* * * *
One Australian firm of ‘ ‘ margarine ’’-makers’
weekly purchases of “caul fat ” and “ fishy ” butter are
rarely less than £5OO. They admittedly ship none of the
oleo-marg. abroad, yet no grocer nor provision-merchant
has it for sale as oleo-margarine. Query—Who and what
are the firm’s customers ?
* * * *
The agent of a certain Sydney assurance-society,
when endeavouring to “ take the life ” of a farmer, was
cut short by the latter, who said that he would not go
into that society, “ as he ’eard on good authority that the
P. & O. was the best.” The agent then (humorously)
suggested the “ Aus. Union Steam Navigation Society,’
which the farmer admitted “ was not a bad one,” though
not as good as the P. & O. “ All right,” said the agent at
last—” I’ll fix you up in the P. & O. if you like ’’—which
he did by insuring the life under tables “ P ” and “ O ” of
his own society, securing a cheque for £l4 odd.
• * * ' m
Archie: Re wood-trade frauds (“E.K.,”8.,
7/7/00). In a N.E. town a while back thefts of wood got
so common that owners used to load cut logs with gun-
powder. Writer was on a visit to a friend, accounted
very respectable, and, as they were sitting over the fire,
writer (it was Queen’s Birthday) found two crackers in his
pocket, which he threw into the fire —unknown to friend.
When the explosion took place the latter bolted out of
the house. He had “ been there ” before !
• * i * *
“Hugo”: Re sweating. Was present recently
at annual meeting of one of the soundest of the Yic.
butter co.’s (paying regularly 8 per cent, divs.— last
year’s biz. approaching £50,000), and was astonished
when shareholders, by a bare majority, raised the screw
of the Board (seven dairymen) from £BO to £lOO among
them. A successful candidate at its elections same day
paid his scrutineer the princely sum of 55., out of which
said “ scrute ” had to buy horse-feed. The eternal fitness
of things milk-and-watery !
• •* * *
The very latest “ do.” Two men recently went
into an Oxford-street, Sydney, hotel and called for cham-
pagne. They were served, and had a chat with the land-
lord, but when one of them, was about to pay he “ found
he had no money on him,” so, taking a diamond ring off
his finger, he handed it to the landlord, saying he would
call next day and redeem it. After the men had left the
landlord took the ring to a pawnbroker close by, who
valued it at £4O. The next day one of the men returned,
paid the bill, and received the ring back. Then they had
drinks, and during conversation the owner of the ring
asked the landlord what he would give for it. The land-
lord offered £25, which was accepted, and the man left ;
but when the landlord went round with his “bargain”
to the pawnbroker he found that the “ take-down” had
substituted for the good ring an imitation not worth
a dollar.
* • * *
A salutary example was recently made of a
Southwark (London) publican, who was mulct, in all, £BO
10s., for selling as Walker’s whisky, and from a Walker’s
bottle, that which was very far indeed from being the
real “ Johnny.” Some such drastic action is badly needed
in Sydney, where any vile rotgut is made to masquerade
under the various classic brands, with an impudence
which would be amusing if it didn’t indicate such a
lamentable need on the part of the public to be protected
against itself in the matter of its drinks. Only the other
day, in a Sydney hotel, a person who had asked for a cer-
tain brand of whisky was served with stuff that didn’t
have anything like the tint of the real article, but the
landlord nevertheless insisted stoutly on the genuineness
of the tipple, until he was paralysed by discovering that
the objector was himself local import agent for the
whisky in question. Apropos, John Haynes, when asked
what he would drink, said to the barman : “ Think I’ll
take a little whisky out of that Walker bottle."
* * * *
“ Wilfred ” : Roaming around looking for typo-
graphical work, I struck, the other day, a Sydney
office, in which were wanted several “ reliable
and thoroughly competent” hands. Inquired as to
wages and was told 255. if found competent on trial 1
Wasn’t on ; but on “ dedication ” Sunday, outside St.
Mary’s Cathedral, I noticed among the patrons of the £i-
door the 255.-a-week sweater of the week previous.
And of such is the Kingdom of Heaven !
» * * *
A glaring excresence of Australian lawyerdom
is the functionary known as Judge’s Associate. Ordin-
arily his salary is £3OO, with numerous perquisites, among
which is the exorbitant charge of a shilling a folio (72
words) for copying the Judge’s notes. The Associate may
or may not be competent. He passes no examination,
submits to no test, but is simply put sitting in the billet
by the Judge, who, being mostly his father or his uncle
or some-other-how related to him, may be supposed to be
a little blind to his failings. But the country pays the
Associate. His salary comes out of the revenue and his
scandalously-unreasonable perquisites out of the pockets
of litigants and other private sufferers. Undoubtedly
this billet should receive attention when the States start
to whip the cat. Or, if such salary and perquisites must
continue, then the billet should be under the Public Ser-
vice Board.
* • • »
A Melbourne man has applied the “snowball”
system to the selling of bikes. He advertises that “a
bicycle for four shillings can be obtained under Blank’s
co-operative system of purchase,” and wants canvassers,
agents and purchasers. The system is simple. The first
customer buys a ticket for 45., which, on presentation at
the head office, entitles him to buy, for £2, a book con-
taining ten 4s. tickets. These he sells to whomso-
ever he can persuade to buy, they having similar rights of
purchase of fresh books. Thus he gets his money back
except the original 4s. When each one of his ten ticket-
buyers has turned up and bought a £2 book, the first
man is entitled to his bicycle—with the single
proviso that all tickets must be returned inside
12 months. On paper it looks a really lovely scheme.
The first man gets his bike for 4s. when he has sold 10
tickets to ten separate people and these people have
bought 100 more tickets (10 each). The 10 people who
buy of him get their 10 bikes when they have sold their
100 tickets to 150 different people, and these 100 people
have bought 1000 more tickets (10 each). Then the 100
people get all their bikes when they have sold their 1000
tickets to 1000 different people, and these latter have
called at the office and bought 10,000 more tickets (10
each). The 1000 persons qualify for their 1000 bikes when
they have sold 10,000 tickets to 10,000 people and the
latter have paid for 100,000 tickets at 4s. each. Then
there are 10,000 people trying to qualify for a cheap bike
apiece by selling 100,000 tickets to 100,000 more people,
and when they have done this, and the 100,000 people
have also bought a million more tickets at 4s. each, the
10,000 people get their bikes and go away biking gloriously.
And the 100,000 people can’t get bike value for their
money unless they can sell a million tickets to a million
people and these million people buy ten million more
tickets. Of course, if the scheme could go on indefinitely,
everybody would get a bike for 45., and the trader would
be ruined. The profit lies in the fact that after a while
the ticket-buyers will be “ left ” for want of enough people
to sell more tickets to, Before the trader parts with one
bike 111 tickets must lie bought (£22 45.), and before he
parts with 10,000 bikes over 1,111,000 tickets must be sold
at 4s. each. If bikes cost him £2O each his position is
simply impregnable, through the dead certainty that the
last batch of people must get left.
* * *
*
There was a lively scene in a Sydney money-
lending mosque recently when a borrower, on settling his
account, found that during its currency there had existed
a bill of sale over his goods without his knowledge.
When applying for accommodation, said borrower was
asked to write out a fist of his possessions and declare
that they were his own property. This he did and signed
the document—“ as a mere matter of form.” The instru-
ment really amounted to a bill of sale, and the borrower,
upon paying up, became enlightened as to how the know-
ledge of the transaction had got about—much to the
accommodated person’s prejudice. The Bulletin knows
of several recent instances in which “ accommodated ”
persons discovered that a “ mere-matter-of-form ” docu-
ment (really a bill of sale) which they had signed had
been registered. No borrower should accept any assur-
ances of “ strictly confidential ” treatmentas regards any-
thing he may sign. The usurer takes absolutely no
chances.
* * * *
A Sydney boot-factory man is having a die
(stamp) made—“ Made in U.S.A.” Of course, the
“ local ” only means United States of Australia, but his
goods will, doubtless, be taken for American.
* » * *
The restriction of wine and beer adulteration,
though important, is so much less so than that of food-
adulteration that legislation for the former savours, in
the absence of any attempt at legislation for the latter,
of the dilettanteism of statesmanship. In Victoria, while
the first ineffective English Act is in force, the second,
more powerful, but still not half drastic enough, Act has
not even been introduced. The only safeguard the cus-
tomer has is in the analysts, who may be appointed by
the municipal councils (elected by shopkeepers, mainly),
but never are. Accordingly, the unfortunate customer is
both cheated and poisoned systematically. “ Chalk and
alum and plaster are sold to the poor for bread, and the
spirit of murder lurks in the very means of life.”
• * » *
“ E.M‘D.”: The much-despised Salvation Army
Eoke-bonnet costs the wearer from 15s. to 21s. as supplied
y the Harmy itself. The cash is the thing, after all,
with the Booth crowd.
• * » »
“Eller” : N.S.W. Railway Commissioners run
weekly excursion trains to Bathurst at 12s. Id. 2nd class,
return, and to Goulburn 11s. 2d. ditto ; but on an ex-
cursion, Bathurst to Sydney, they charge 255. 9d. 2nd
class return, and Goulburn ditto 235. 9d. ditto. Why
such a wide difference ?
• • » *
The excise duty on spirits is higher in N.S.W.
than in any other province of Australia —14s. per gallon.
In Queensland, 125.; S. Australia, 9s. 4d. ; and Victoria,
10s. The proposed Federal tariff runs from 10s. to 125.,
so that in this respect N.S.W. is promised alleviation.
* * * *
“F.H.”: Re the picture, in which you com-
miserated the tutor at 10s. a week.” I once worked as
bookkeeper on a Riverina station for four months,
receiving at the end of the time, as full payment, 40s. I
was appointed by a “ big” Melb. wool-man, more than a
mere acquaintance of mine—and was, in the intervals of
bookwork, expected to do anything that came along, from
sweating stud-ewes into the dip to ’oldin’ the ’orses for
the boss while he liquored at the township pub. And all
at rate of £6 a year.
* * * *
The Conciliation Court (M.L.) lately closed a
linotypists’ wrangle by deciding that linotypists shall be
paid £3 17s. per week for day, and £4 4s. for night work.
Piece work receives 4d. per 1000 for brevier, and 3Jd. for
minion. Seven hours constitute a linotype day.
* • * *
After paying all expenses and charges, includ-
ing the salary of a Supreme Court Judge, N.S.W. Bank-
ruptcy Department returns a profit of £5OOO a year.
* * • *
Le Roi No. 2 “Bear Squeeze.” At late London
mail, dates these shares were over £l6, while the parent
co.’s, having, no doubt, five times the pup’s intrinsic value,
were selling at one-third the price. One London paper
professed to know what took place between Mr. Whitaker
Wright and a certain Mr. H—— (which, no doubt, stands
for Henning), who had sold 9000 shares “short;” found
it impossible to deliver, and saw Wright “ by appoint-
ment.” About this time last year it is well known that
Wright went to see the same Mr. Henning “ by appoint-
ment.” Lake Views had been oversold from £26 down to
£ll, and Wright wanted to know on what terms Henning’s
crowd would stop “ bearing ” them. The terms were the
delivery of 25,000 Lake Views at £lO a share. Wright
agreed, and Henning and his crowd are supposed to have
made about half a million on the deal. Six weeks ago it
was Wright’s turn. He had been lying low for Henning
ever since, and the paper in question puts it that he said .
“ You are the fellow, and the leader of all the other
fellows, who have tried to cut my financial throat for
many months past, and who have deliberately and with-
out justification succeeded in ruining thousands of honest
Investors in the Westraliah market.” _ Wright might
have said the first part of it, but if he said it all he is a
fool. The “bulls,” in running up Lake Views to hoi,
ruined far more people than the “bears” in bringing
them down, simply because they were never worth £3B
and Wright knew it. Same position exists to-day, and
Wright knows it again. It was putting them up that
caused the ruin and “bears” never do that. Wright
continued: “You have sold to my agents 9000 shares
Which you haven’t got and which you can’t get. Now it
so happens that owing to unexpected developments Le
Roi No. 2 shares are to-day a Very valuable property, so
valuable indeed that I hardly dare put a price on
them.” (Wright’s little joke). “ Seeing, however,
that it is you I am dealing with and for the sake of
‘Auld Lang Syne’” (another little joke) “I will
make you a price at which you can, if you
like, settle your differences in the deal, but my
offer will hold good only until 4 o’clock to-day, because,
as I said before (Wright-like) the developments are so
wonderful that the shares will be worth much more to-
morrow. However, if you come in by 4 o’clock to-day—
and, mind, not later than 4—with a cheque for £125,000 I
will give you a receipt in full. If, however, you do not
desire to take advantage of my liberal offer, the price of
those 9000 shares to-morrow will be high enough to break
most men.” The cheque is said to have arrived punc-
tually at 4 o’clock, and the paper adds that Mr. ll— s
friends, some Australian sharebrokers and some Wes-
tralian ex-managers, are also in the same mess, and con-
cludes with the fervent hope that “ Whitaker Wright and
his W.A. financial houses will keep up their good work of
camping on the trail of this notorious ‘ bear ’ party
which deserves no pity,” and declares Mr. Whitaker
Wright to be the envied hero of the hour.
Noteworthy that, at the recent deputation
of Melb. Trades Hall delegates to the Minister
with reference to the Factories Act, while the 30
other representatives spoke of their ‘ ‘ trades ” the
cooks referred proudly to their “ profession.”
A beautiful, gruesome yarn comes from
S’Africa about one of the amateur lady-nurses who
sat down and read an improving book to a soldier-
Eatient for some time, and then discovered that
e had been dead an hour before she started.
Writes “ S.T.S.”
George Essex Evans has not been afraid to make use of
the much denounced “cockney rhyme,” morning and
dawning. His Federation Song contains it in two places.
What is wrong about this rhyme, anyway ? Some years
ago present writer sent a letter to a reviewer who had
spoken against it. Reviewer turned out to be Mr. (now
Prof.) Saintsbury, and a pleasant little correspondence
followed. The great man, in answer to questions, stated
he did not roll the R, and did not require a rhyme to
satisfy the eye as well as the ear. It was then put to him
that morn and dawn cannot be differentiated in rhyme-
ending ; and that, if phonetic spelling ever comes in, they
must be represented by identical symbols, except as to
the first letter. His reply was that the sounds have a
slight but distinct difference, and that he could not
understand anyone with a trained ear not being able to
detect it. At that the matter necessarily had to rest, and
other reviewers continue to echo the “cockney rhyme”
protest. Even Rudyard Kipling has had to defer to it,
and now his “ Cross swings low to the morn ” (instead of
the original and preferable “ dawn ”) when the toast of
the Native Born is drunlf. It seems to be the R that
works confusion —accepting the writer’s contention that
it is merely confusion. The fact is that the sound usually
felt or is a single vowel sound, and does not require an
at all, being the same as is at other times rendered in
writing by aw, and more rarely by ar (as in war) or aw (as
in faun). The ear plays strange tricks at times. Edu-
cated people have been known to declare that they could
detect no difference between for and four and fur and
fair. Professor Saintsbury would probably place the
morn-dawn party in the same class. But what is wrong
with the rhyme, anyway ?


A Sensation in Sydney
500 SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED IN THE
LAST THREE MONTHS. NOTHING LIKE
IT EVER KNOWN BEFORE IN SYDNEY-
NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF THE
PEOPLE GIVEN. A REVOLUTION IN
MEDICINE. “ KEEP THE KIDNEYS
WELL, AND THE WHOLE BODY
WILL BE WELL.” THE EFFECT OF
DOAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills
■&
In
L
Vi
>1
8
m
U§
i
"THE PAIN IS JUST HERE, DOCTOR.
It used to be considered that only urinary and bladder
troubles were to be traced to the kidneys, but now modern science
proves that nearly all diseases have their beginning in the disorder
of these important organs.
The kidneys filter and purify the blood —that is their work.
So when your kidneys are weak, or out of order, you can
understand how quickly your entire body is affected and how
every organ seems to fail to do its duty.
If you are sick or feel badly begin taking Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, because as soon as your kidneys are well they will
help all the other organs to health. A trial will convince
anyone.
The people whose names appear below are all
Sydney people. They have all been cured by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and their cases, as
well as scores of others, have been fully reported
in these columns.
Was ever any other medicine supported by such
a mass of local testimony ? Would any other
medicine stand so sure a test ? Think of it. Here
are your friends and neighbours, all Sydney
people, telling you week by week in the Sydney
papers what Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
done for them.
Does not this speak volumes for the sterling
merits of this great medicine ? Why are Doan’s
Bachache Kidney Pills so popular in Sydney ?
We will tell you why. Because they cure
diseases in a new way, viz. by healing the
kidneys, which are the most important and deli-
cate organs of the whole body, and are the cause
of most diseases. Sydney people have found this
out, and 500 of them have received benefit from
using, this medicine in the past three months. Is
not this a glorious record? “ Yes,” you will say,
‘ * but how does it interest me ? lam not suffer-
ing from kidney disease.”
Wait a bit, don’t make too sure of that. Do
you know that the kidneys are the blood-filters of
the body, and if they are sick your blood becomes
charged with impurities that permeate the whole
of your system ?
Do you suffer from neuralgia, pains in the back
and shoulders, loss of flesh, weakness of the
muscles, palpitation of the heart, shortness of
breath, poor appetite, swellings of the ankles, or
urinary disorder ? Well, that is kidney trouble;
your kidneys have become clogged, they cannot
do their work properly. They must be healed
before you can be well. That is just what Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will do for you ; they will
cause the kidneys to filter properly and do for you
just what they have done for 500 of your friends
and neighbors in Sydney during the past three
months.
Here are some of their names and addresses :
Mr. James Hudson, 10 Lennox-street, Newtown,
Sydney; Mrs. Patrick Duffy, 43 Marion-street,
Leichhardt, Sydney; Mr. Jas. Rees, 6 East-
street, Surry Hills, Sydney; Mrs. Jas. Me Adam,
46 Kensington-street, Chippendale, Sydney ; Mr.
W. Hubbard, St. Paul’s-street, Randwick, Syd-
ney ; Mr. W. Lane, 102 G-eorge-street, Erskin-
ville, Sydney; Mr. P. O’Sullivan, 237 Nelson-
street, Annandale, Sydney ; Mr. J. Cameron, 297
Balmain-road, Leichhardt, Sydney ; Mrs. M.
Isaacs, ‘2l Albion-street, Surry Hills, Sydney;
Mrs. W. Gow, 31 John-street, Leichhardt, Sydney;
Mrs. Kate Helmka, 27 Ada-street, Ultimo, Syd-
ney ; Mr. E. Hansen, 41 Rosser-street, Balmain,
Sydney; Mrs. Geo. Cook, 20 Bennell-street,
Waverley, Sydney ; Mr. P. Smith, 1 Cheltenham-
street, Balmain, Sydney; Mr. J. Bickell, 12
Chapel-street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney; Mrs.
Ered. Russell, 7 St. Andrew’s-street, Balmain,
Sydney ; Mrs. W. Mullins, "49 Hunter-street,
Sydney ; Mr. J. Erodd, 99 Crown-street, Sydney.
Yes, and it was the genuine Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills which these people used, not some
substitute or cheap imitation of a similar name.
You need not be imposed upon, however, when
you buy if you make sure that the full name
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
is 0,1 the wrapper. You will see the name in bold, plain type. Sold by all chemists and storkeepers
at 2s 9d. per box (six boxes 15s. 3d.) or same will be forwarded on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street., Sydney.
The Struggle of the Shades.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Have all the warriors of the past to Paradise been
raised ?
Do haloes crown the valiant heads where once the
steel-helms blazed ?
Ah, no!—Valhalla so might suit the man of
peaceful life,
But not the mighty Paladins, who kissed the
earth in strife.
Strong throats made hoarse by slogan wild would
not attune to hymn,
And hands that grasped the sword and lance
would find the harp too prim.
llow great the joy ’twould be to these strong
slaves of war’s red lust,
To fight for aye the fights they loved when here
they trod the dust:
That they might wage for ever so—’twere true
Elysium
To those who kept the standard safe or heark-
ened to the drum !
No racial tie, no nation’s cause ; each fight for
fight’s own sake ;
No linking brotherhood; just each his own red
thirst to slake;
No wedge, no phalanx, no array: no modern
square to form ;
-The warriors of the centuries in one chaotic
storm !
Keen tomahawk and scalping-knife—kris, yata-
ghan, and mace,
Meet Hyksos sword and arbalest and claymore
and anlace.
Swift assegai from Roman shield provokes a
brazen din,
And Scottish targe repels the sharp Etruscan
javelin.
With weirder note the sling-stones sing, as erst on
earth they sang;
Quarrells and clothyard-shafts flit by the hurtling
boomerang.
The cross-bow’s twang, the mitrailleuse, that
heaped the ghastly pile,
The rattling Maxim, and the spit of jinghal and
jezail;
The crack of Mauser and matchlock, the shriek of
soaring shell,
And arquebus and howitzer —belching the breath
of Hell.
Greek-fire contends with lyddite green in work of
grisly doom,
And vies the crashing catapult with cannon’s
solemn boom:
Obsidian spear and tulwar broad strike panoply
of steel,
And Trojan-shaft that pierced divine Achilles’
mortal heel;
The stone-axe beats the cutlass down, the sabre
rends the mail,
The scythe - armed chariot - wheels reject the
Snider’s leaden hail.
Thus war the mighty men of yore, where Time no
more prevails ;
And dark-browed Death, triumphant, there no
combatant assails.
On earth recruited, fighting, for that ever-swell-
ing host,
The Warrior in the Flesh remains the Warrior in
the Ghost.
N.s.w.
GEORGE R. HYAM.
“An Open Verdict.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Naylor was one of the chattels of Gummin.
He came to the station seeking to remove him-
self as far as possible from a thoroughly unsatis-
factory life —and beyond a doubt he selected an
eminently suitable place.
An out-back station is a unique instrument for
effacing the mentality of a man. The monotone
of the scenery, the monotony of the duties, deaden
the sensitive chords of being, and the man insensi-
bly sinks in his conception of himself until he
feels that he is part and parcel of the commercial
whole; a little higher than the blood-stock—but
stock, nevertheless.
The vast brown plains and the desolate stunted
scrub lull one’s brains into torpor every day; the
moon-eyed sheep invariably glance wildly up
when you approach and then rattle hurriedly
away, as from something uncanny; while the
crows sit on the dead trees and shriek “ Quah,
auah, quah ” until you are moved to rein up your
horse and curse them with the wearying sameness
of out-back blasphemy.
• * * *
The horse and Naylor were out for their round
of dutv The horse had tired of disturbing the
flies, and they now clustered thick on its eyes and
flanks It was a spiritless animal that had out-
lived the worries of equine existence, and now did
its routine of duties like a machine. Naylor had
cursed the crows with his usual fervour had
mended a fence, and methodically pulled a sheep
out of a tank, and was now making across to the
well to draw water for the cattle. ,
He threw the bridle-reins over his horse s neck
and mechanically woundmp water for half-an-
hour, pausing now and again to dip his mouth m
the huge bucket and squirt the water at the wasps
that hovered over the open tank alongside. Then
he got ready to “boil his quart’’-still automati-
Cal \ y ‘shade of feeling o’erspread his face as he
descended, pot in hand, to his mid-day retreat
It was a typical backblocks midsummer day, and
the grateful shade of the Moreton Bay fig-tree
justified his lapse from self-effacement.
The rock-wallaby frisked away from the small
cave according to custom, and Naylor had his hard
meal and then carefully arranged his leaf couch.
He tucked his trousers into his socks to keep out
the Sack ants as much as possible, and lay down
for his mid-day “bange.” The ants were per-
tinacious In spite of his precautions they
succeeded in annoying him to an extent that pre-
crows' 1 There were times when the crows
would seem to taunt him with their monosyllabic
derision, and it became necessary to answer them
with something more than curses.
Naylor watched the “ apostles ” skipping in the
branches. He did not object to them. There was
no insistent reiteration about their cries, and they
flitted about in a manner that suggested to him
that they were only doing it under orders.
Then the iguana came along. He appeared at
rare intervals only. He was three feet long and
of a dull-grey color —quite unlike those variegated
monstrosities whose dirty-yellow or brick-red
bands suggested to Naylor an aspect of levity not
in keeping with the dominant tone of out-back
surroundings.
A fly alighted on the “gohanner’s” neck, and
the reptile brushed it away with its funny little
forefoot, the action being so peculiarly human
that Naylor was almost moved to smile.
Then he indolently watched the intruder
cautiously approach him, and he softly raised his
revolver. Without any apparent cause, he began
to reflect on the aimlessness and hopelessness of
his existence. The “ gohanner ” crept closer and
closer, and Naylor saturninely smiled as he
thought of the shock it would receive. It paused
about two feet away from him, and he marked its
little beady black eyes, the play of the muscles of
its throat, and its stertorous breathing. Next it
turned its queer-looking head sideways, with a
quizzical expression, and moved up to him,
placing its feet upon his chest.
And then Naylor fired.
The shot was a success, and there was one
spiritless, mechanical being the less on the wide,
dusty plains of Glummin. But whether the bullet
hit Naylor or the “ gohanner” I quite forget.
GEORGE POWICK BROWN.
As it was Told.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mother had been dead just about twelve months,
and ever since she died the ole man seemed to be
takin’ it to heart more and more. He used to sit
on his favorite stool near the fire for hours after
tea, smoking and thinking to himself. We didn’t
care for him at graft, and Alec’d tell him to take
a flyin’ jump at himself as soon as look at him ;
we did pretty well as we liked. But, somehow or
other, at night, if he’d only to look up at us like,
when Nell rounded on us for going it too strong,
we’d cave in. He used to make us think of poor
old mother, because we’d think he was fretting
after her. But one morning he put on his best
black pants that had been rolled up in his box
since the funeral, and started polishing his boots.
We knew something was in the wind. Then he
got Alee to cut his hair —such a cut, too. His ear
was bleeding after it, but he didn’t seem to care.
He trimmed his own whiskers —cut the moustache
right across —looked as if he’d fell over an
axe. Then he told us he was going to town,
and gave orders what to do till he came
back. We’d all-right times down the paddock,
smokin’ and spinnin’ yarns with the Daleys
till Nell blew the horn for dinner or tea. But one
night while we were at supper he floats in with a
woman on his arm. Said he wanted to introduce
us to his new wife, and we were to look on her as
our mother !
Alec and Chris started giggling. Nell looked
at the two of ’em black as thunder, an’, my word,
she could look black, I promise you. She was a
scraggy-looking piece he got hitched to, with a
mozzle eye an’ big hip-bones. Things didn’t go so
bad for a couple of days, but on Sunday Nell had
a row with her over a puddin’. The ole man just
come in time to prevent a set-to. A day or so
after that she hit Alec on the head with the
broom over something, an’ roars out: “Til teach
you who’s boss ! ” Alec dodged the second blow
and banged her on the eye. Then th’ ole man
rushed at him, but me an’ Alec were too good for
him. He locked us out, but Alec got in thro’ the
window quietly, an’ went through the ole man’s
pockets, watch an’ all. Nell passed us out our
blankets, an’ we put bluey up that night an’
started for the western district, shearing.
Nell cleared out to service—she used to write
an’ tell us how things was goin’ on. The new
piece started to give the ole man once-round
reg’lar till he got sick of it, an’ went on the drunk.
He gave her a terrible time, ’specially when he
got a touch of the snakes an’ chased her down the
paddock with a fern-hook. Then she got a separ-
ation order an’ maintenance, an’ she’s livin’ in the
township on the alermony. Once when he went
to try an’ make it up with her she threatened to
get him into the logs. He admits he fell-in over
her, an’ swears he’ll swing for her. Second mar-
riages ain’t a success.
BLACKBUTT.
Pity N.S. W. couldn’t have hired Christian
de Wet at the beginning of the Governor trouble,
and sent him in pursuit on the understanding that
he would be paid by results. He seems to be the
only military man on the earth’s surface just now
—if he isn’t dead, as alleged—who is fast enough
over rough country for that kind of work.
“Tommy” to The Bulletin from Pre-
toria :
With me on night-sentry-duty over President Kruger’s
house at Pretoria was a Queenslander named Carpendale.
We had orders to keep a careful watch for cyclists, as
much information was in this way being conveyed to the
enemy’s lines; and presently my companion spotted a
wheelman careering up a dark street. Oarpendale fol-
lowed and, having vainly challenged three times, seized
the chance while the fugitive was passing a strong electric
lamp and fired low. Over rolled the cyclist, and up with
fixed bayonet rushed the Queenslander. “ What for you
shoot ?” said a disgusted voice. “ I hev got’ein pass. I
am deaf.” It was a Dutch clergyman, deaf as a post.
The bullet had gone through the rim of the wheel and
smashed three spokes; and the reverend man was ex-
ceeding wroth till he realised that the "303 was better
through his tyre than his tummv.
R. D. Reid, who died in Melbourne
recently —they once used to call him “Bobby
Leed” because he kept a Chinese servant —was
an old political hand who had dropped out of
public life and become almost forgotten. For
years R.D.R. represented Fitzroy in Vic. As-
sembly, but he was beaten at a general election
by “Bob” Best, son-in-law of G. D. Langridge,
a man of local influence. Also, Best was president
of the local athletic clubs and got all the A.N. A.
votes. At next election Reid went to Toorak,
and at his first big meeting a man rose in the body
of the hall with —“Mister Reid, why d’ye come
here ? Why were you shoved out at Fitzroy ? ”
“ Because,” said R.D., “I didn’t play football!”
Reid was related by marriage to the late Chief
Justice Alfred Stephen and Chief Justice Madden.
He married a niece of Robert Shadforth, who was
once Associate to Stephen at Sydney and went in
the early Forties as Associate to Justice Jeffcott.
Shadforth died at St. Kilda a year ago.


“I Gained Flesh Rapidly.”
If You Are Run Down, Losing Strength, Are Greatly
Debilitated, and Suffer from the Long, Hot Summer,
There is one Medicine That Will Quickly Cure You. It is
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
is
f
W
r
Mr. A. Smith, of Chief Street, Brompton, So. Australia, very kindly sends us
the following letter with his photograph, both of which are given here.
“ I have used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla for loss of appetite, indigestion, and to give
tone and vigor to my system when training for bicycle racing. I only used three
bottles ; but it was enough to improve my appetite and thoroughly restore my
strength and health. I also gained flesh rapidly to my normal weight.
“As a blood-purifier and general tonic for those who are affected by the
long, hot summers of Australia there is no medicine like it.”
It is because of such testimonials that Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
We could show you hundreds of such letters as this. They all say that Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla helps every one who tries it. It always does good and sometimes
makes such wonderful cures that they seem like miracles.
If you are feeling poorly just now, get a bottle of this grand old medicine.
The very next day you will feel better.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
Gives Vigor to the Nerves.
AYER’S PILLS act gently j they cure constipation.
I
FOR
24 Years
OW BRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Bemedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
WHEN YOU ASK FOE
'jQmgTonic
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared, by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is. I§<L, 2s. 9 d., 4s. 6
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
WHATEVER THE WEATHER
Whether the weather he wet
Or ivhether the weather he hot,
Whether the weather he set
Or whether the weather he not.
Whavever the weather that causes your ills,
To weather to weather, why—take
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT .ft
PRICE lS.lftD-
Sold V the- Proprietor
ST. HELENS
IANCASKIRE. ENGLAND.
m
These renowned Pills are composed entirely of medicinal
herbs, and are warranted free from mercury or other
poisonous substance. They cleanse the stomach and
bowels, and purify the blood; invigorate the whole nervous
system, and give tone and energy to the muscles. In the
preparation of BEECHAM’S PILLS the most scrupu-
lous care is taken, and the ingredients form the most
successful combination that has ever been discovered for
Sick Headache, Constipation,
Wind & Pains in the Stomach,
Impaired Digestion,
Disordered Liver,
Female Ailments,
. . . AND ALL . . .
Bilious & Nervous Disorders
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Vendors
every where, in Boxes Is. l\d. ( s(i Pills), & 2s. 9d. each.
Over 6,000,000 Boxes sold Annually.
Beecham’s Tooth Paste
RECOMMENDS ITSELF.
Efficacious. Economical. Cleanses the Teeth. Perfumes the Breath.
IN COLLAPSIBLE TUBES, 1/- Each.
af
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Grout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
i
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
SEN
WWT EASE
mwE
31*5
Perfume
Sen-Sen
' RINGtWK AVENUE I
LONDON.
IMALUABLE TO
{ SINGERS & SPEAKERS
cP
IRISH MOSS
FOR
The besf remedy-
INFLUENZA, *'
COUGHS,
Ask for Barm 1 ng ton's
and see that you get it.
COLDS,
11
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA


PERBRIIII * CO.
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
fcO|M
a
Foot
5d
Foot
6 d
Foot
7
a
Foot
9d
Foot
GARDEN HOSE
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
the WORTHINGTON
... IS THE ORIGINAL. ..
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND
Sole Australasian Representatives;
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TANGYES’
DUPLEX
Are the Latest arad Best,
Sole Representatives in Australia:
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED .
genie, Teares Go.
Mining arid Engineering
Furnishers.
STOCKS CARRIED IN—^
sypNey
MELBOURNE
PERTH “»
60
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- C- :EnXi'DTR,IIDGS-:Kj & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 IOKIv SIKKIM’, SYDNEY
10pp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post h orn all the colonies promptly
attended to.
af
eorg
HOTEL
jartments at Option.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
SI
PS
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
.
M
i
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & IGE GO. LTD.
PASTEURISED
BUTTER •• •
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
Cream, consequently the butter has a hue aroma that only Pasteurisation pan give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less dailv. dhe difference in.price between 1 asteunsed, Xjeaut3.fTi3.Xy “flavored lJUtter and the
ordinary make is per°lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your Orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Grood butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas oi for ordinaly use
at any price. The famous “ Berry ” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
bad butter is dear
H, PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
COMPRESSORS.
Tt
Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
ROCK
DRILLS
“ New Ingersoll.”
Ul
60
CO
LACY C
OY.
TD.
ZKT.S3 .’\KT.
-
Kill
i
“DUPLEX”
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN # SONS
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WTNTAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
I'll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustaehe Pro-
ducer.
CapillarinG!
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or NewjZealand.
Price, 108. 6d.
Sons Aokittb :
Ths fUsult.
Cralß & Aitlcen. 880-682 O«or«0- »t„ »ydas«
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN.
NESS Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS
Address-MAUNC REMEDY CO.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
