

McE WAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
s FRY’S MALTED COCOA
GUARANTEED FUK.B COCOA. i\.]NTX) EXTRACT OF MALT.
K. G. WATK.IKTS «££ CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Over .fcjkjf ui o-aau <4.0 & re doid and at work
rOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
vv I M roi.K’iS GEORGE HOTE L, opposite St.
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest' Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIEF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & o°'»s Htt Street,
d
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These machines have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar*
Salt, Chemicals, the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
•. v ' • ■ ' ' : , • ' : - '
Testimonials and full
YA'*
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISHT.
SANDEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
sd
HOBART.
Hadley’s Orient [jotel.
t3r~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
g_| OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
JLI. There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nsw Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
60
... * '..1
w. O- &g co.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 ITOKIi STKLJUJi’, S JTDNKY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
oo
9
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELT IN G
The Leading Belt of Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government*.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWICT& son, ltd.,
n? Yorh. S'fc3c*«e-t,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES : Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
JOSHUA’S A USTR A LI AN
Boomerang Brandy
ONE OF OUR LEADING DOCTORS HAS STATED THAT SHOULD IT
BE NECESSARY TO HAVE RECOURSE TO A STIMULANT,
The Most Wholesome Spirit
THAT CAN BE CONSUMED IS
Joshua’s Boomerang Brandy.
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLPEST
AUSTRALIA.
tSB' Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TEACHER S “ HIGHLAND CREAM”
SOLE AG ENTS ) “ T *
J 249 Qeorr/e Street,
& Co.
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol 21.— U0, 1039. J
[Saturday, January 13, 1900.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


(Registered)
ik
For
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
all
THROAT & LUNG
AFFECTIONS.
asd
as
d
ďsad
INVALUABLE
for
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC SPEAKERS.
Sold by all Chemists, in Tins, Is. 6d. Contains no Cocaine or other poisonous drugs.
Or from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON", Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, for Postage Stamps of a»y
Province. Sydney Agent: S. Taylob, 5 and 7 Queen’s Place.
1 ' ;■ '
tST They Ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in INDIGESTION undDYSPEPSIA. *®6
THE RED PAGE.
—From “ Landlopers."
JLE GAY BRERETON, of Sydney, is
known as a writer of verses occasionally
• interesting, rarely stimulating, collected
in several pamphlets around several girls.
His new book, “ Landlopers,” is a book of prose
ramble-notes and reflections, with interpolated
verses ; and is uncommonly well printed by the
publishers, Wm. Brooks & Co. It is adorned by
Some of many small illustrations unacknowledged
by the artist; but a “D.H.S.” on page 39 may
justify one in attributing them to that liberal
and dexterous workman, D. H. Souter, by whose
courtesy some examples are printed on this page.
“ Landlopers ” strikes a more decisive note than
any,of Brereton’s booklets of verses. It records the
physical and mental ins-and-outs of a little tramp
from Sydney along the western road to Jenolan,
and round by the South Coast back to Sydney;
and exhibits the author’s personality in a manly
and attractive fashion. He begins by telling his
nostalgia for the primal life, for space and air and
sunlight—
The hideous sameness of things ! The misery of clock-
work regularity ! This limited existence galls me ; and
the enforced study of Old English poetry increases my
dissatisfaction. Freedom and action nerve every line of
Anglo-Saxon verse. To start reading the ancient songs
is to plunge into the swirl of foaming sea-waves and to
fee! the battle frenzy. If lam to stay here, I must read
something soothing and enervating—conservative and
Tennysonian. But only one thing can bring me peace
now. The old longing is upon me—the longing for the
open road and its lazy labour. I want to burst these
prison-walls of home and custom ; to meet my mates of
former days on the proper footing, and to mingle with
them unrestrained and unrebuked. My fellow-thanes
await-me. I hear their voices and I must go. I must lie
close to the living earth, encompassed by the stars. My
eyes are dim with longing for the dear blue of hills and
sea and sky. I am eager for a thousand natural plea-
sures ; to dive down into cool water and gaze up through
spaces of dim green or grey, or mark in clear depths the
blending of tints in wave-worn pebbles and aquatic
weeds; to let the branches of trees sweep across my face
and body, causing indescribable thrills of love ; to lie
with my hack against a hill and watch slow melting
clouds, and see birds gliding down the wind ; to sink my
face ih sweet-scented grass, and spread my fingers that I
may feel the caress of the elastic blades ; to rejoice in the
smooth flow of the breeze ; to stand upon the shore and
feel the ceaseless pulsing of the Pacific. lam hungry
for communion with these mates of mine. And then the
freedom from restraint, the fetterless uncertainty of
vagrant life !, And the darling children by the wayside !
children who laugh shyly at the incomprehensible tramp
who asks such foolish questions. He asks them merely
for the sake of hearing childish tones and looking into
childish eyes. . . .
And the tramp can appreciate everything, and can find
enjoyment even in misfortune. He is not stifled by con-
ventional obligations. He wanders at large in a perfect
atmosphere of love. He is on the common level; no
social lies raise him to a pedestal or depress him in a cess-
pit. He feels his fellowship with Nature. An individual,
be is yet merged in the universe. He recognises his
union with the Divine. He is a god. And the people
whom he passes on the road see only a tramp with
fringed breeches and a hat full of holes.
Then —having penned this seductive picture for
sundowners to wonder at—he borrows a boy for
mate, and is off with a swag to a sundown. The
rest is 170 pages of excellent small beer—
with occasional flights towards a dithyramb, and
frequent verses (mostly flat) of which these line*
once here before printed are perhaps the best
Intrinsically Brereton’s matter is not of the
most imperishable. The book is engaging and
valuable because it is a book of himself—it is tense
with his attitude, and alive with his earnestness.
It is good reading, and leaves a good memory.
Prayer in Time of War.
Dedicated to the Archbishop of Canterbury.
HOLY Moloch, Lord and Father! mercy on thy
children still!
Blood we owe thee ; blood we bring thee ; give
us then of blood our fill.
Here thy tale of mangled victims,—help us, teach us how
to kill,
Kill ! kill! kill! kill ! kill! kill 1 kill!
We have fed thy flames, O Moloch! do not, Lord, our
anguish spurn 1
Many captives have we flung thee—fling us captives in
thy turn ;
Give us strength that farm and hamlet may as fragrant
incense burn,
Burn ! burn ! burn 1 burn ! burn ! burn I burn !
God of massacre and carnage, give us carnage in a
flood, —
Murdered fathers, weeping mothers, infants dead in
tender bud.
Let our enemies be scattered, let thy altars swim in
blood,
Blood ! blood ! blood ! blood ! blood! blood ! blood !
To thy dripping shrine, Lord Moloch, 10, we lift hands
dripping, gory ;
Round thy image we have twined it, our ensanguined
island story;
Thine, O Moloch, is the kingdom, and the power, and the
glory,
Glory l glory ! glory ! glory ! glory ! glory ! glory 1
“ Landlopers.”
This book of ours that
sheet by sheet
I gave you as I wrote
it, Sweet,
Afar in timorous days
W'hen yet
My love in words I
dared not set,
At last I bring to you
complete.
It tells of lagging hours
and fleet.
Of two whose blood
with rapid beat
Thrilled each to each
whene’er they
met—
This book of ours.
And dreams there be that still intreat,
In passionate terms of swooning heat.
Your hopes to fly far forth and let
The Future take them in his net.
Dear eyes, glow softly when you meet
This book of ours.
Good friend of mine, you feel with me—
Your blood grows hot with sympathy
With something that I say or do ; ’
Then speak—I want a word from you.
Let not the silence wrap you"round
While you are living over-ground.
They say that earthly years are few;
Then speak—I want a word from you.
Perhaps I pass you in the street,
And when our eyes a moment meet,
I wonder are .you wishing too ;
Then speak—I'want a word from you.
Are you, too, longing for a sign,
Yet fear to stretch a hand for mine?
What other am I writing to?
Then speak—I want a word from you.
Some way our thoughts together run.
Since both lift brow towards the sun
Beneath the self-same vault of blue ;
Then speak—I want a word from you.
A Historian’s Judgment on the
Transvaal War.
THE most crushing condemnation of the
British war for Transvaal gold and terri-
tory—which “we do not seek, we do not
covet,” said Lord Salisbury, yet which
“we ” are unquestionably doing our best to
secure by organised murder and legalised rapine—
comes from the men most honoured as British
thinkers and writers. Herbert Spencer, one of
the world’s greatest philosophers, condemns this
unnecessary, unjustifiable war. Frederic Harrison
and Leonard Courtney, equally entitled by in-
telligence and character to give an opinion,
grieve that the honour of Britain—or what passes
for it—should be trailed in the dust at
the bidding of gold - syndicates and Jingo
politicians. And to these and other like
witnesses is now added James Bryce, whose
standing as economist, jurisconsult, and philoso-
phic historian is of the highest. His study of
“ The American Commonwealth ’’—the chief book
on the subject—leaves no doubt as to-his strength
or judgment ; and on a question such as the right
or wrong of the Transvaal war Bryce’s is probably
the weightiest opinion in England to-day.
It is this man, then, who in the preface to the
just-published new edition of his “Impressions
of South Africa ” casts up the balance of evidence
for and against Britain, and decides that Britain
made the war—that the war was unnecessary, that
it was unwise, that it was unjustified. All the
evil which has come upon South Africa Bryce
traces to the Jameson Raid, which was backed by
Cape Premier Rhodes and British Colonial Secre-
tary Chamberlain. The Raid, says Bryce, kindled
“ race feeling all over South Africa, and has had
the most disastrous effect upon every part of the
country.” Before the Raid there was “no hos-
tility at all ” in Cape Colony and Natal between
the British and the Dutch. In the Orange Free
State there was perfect co-operation between both
races. There was also perfect friendliness to
Britain. As to the Transvaal, there was a desire
for reform and a more liberal franchise. In the
Transvaal itself there was a party, growing in in-
fluence, which desired reform, perceived that the
existing state of things could not continue, and
was ready to join the Uitlanders in agitating for
sweeping changes. The Raid changed everything
in all these communities. In Cape Colony Dutch
feeling revived, and a Dutch Ministry came into
power, and politicians were turned into violent
partisans. Nevertheless, the loyalty of the Dutch
was undiminished, for, at the Diamond Jubilee,
the Bond Ministry of Mr. Schreiner voted a grant
of £30.000 per annum to the naval defence of the
Empire.
In the Orange Free State, the explosion of Dutch
sentiment was still stronger. A Dutch President
was elected, the chance of the British candidate
vanishing. Sympathy with the threatened sister
Republic led to a defensive alliance between the
two Republics. As the Free State had no reason
to fear attack, this furnishes a signal proof of the
love of independence which animates it. In the
Transvaal, the progressive burghers were para-
lysed, and the reactionary party was strengthened.
Forts were built, and munitions of war were im-
ported.
Such precaution* were natural. Any Government
which had been nearly overthrown, and expected another
attack, would have done the like.
This of course incensed the Uitlanders and made
the capitalists “angry and restless, because the
prospect of securing reforms which would reduce
the cost of working the gold reefs became more
remote. ”
Mr. Bryce does not deny that the Boers should
have either extended their franchise or reformed
their administration, but he explains that they
could not do the one without the danger of being
swamped by the new burghers, or the other,
because they had pot the necessary knowledge or
skill. On the other hand he maintains that
Britain was bound to observe the treaties made
with the Transvaal. As ito the franchise “it was
a purely internal affair, in which Britain had no
right to intermeddle, either under the Convention
of 1 884 or under the general right of the State to
protect its subjects.” For many reasons, prudent
and conciliatory diplomacy was necessary. The
Boers have regarded British policy
as a policy of violence and duplicity. They recall how
Natal was conquered from them in 1842, after they had
conquered it from the Zulus; how their country was
annexed in 1877 ; how the promises made at the time of
that annexation were broken. . . . Their passion for in-
dependence is something- which we in modern Europe
find it hard to realise. It recalls the long struggle of the
Swiss for freedom in the fourteenth century, or the fierce
tenacity which the Scotch showed in the same age in
their resistance to the claim of England to be their
“ Suzerain Power.’’
Mr. Bryce insists that Britain had no right to
force the Transvaal to enlarge the franchise. A
refusal would not furnish any casus belli. Yet the
franchise negotiations were conducted in such a
way as to lead up to an ultimatum :
There was already a war party in the colony, and
voices clamorous for war were heard in the English Press.
Every check to the negotiations evoked a burst of joy
from organs of opinion at home and in the Cape, whose
articles were unfortunately telegraphed to Pretoria.
Worse still, the cry of “ Avenge Majuba” was frequently
heard in the colonies, and sometimes even in England.
The war was unnecessary—
The alienation of more than half the population of
Cape Colony, the destruction of a peaceful and prosper-
ous Republic with whioh Britain had no quarrel, the re-
sponsibility for governing the Transvaal when conqn*red<
with its old inhabitants bitterly hostile,—these were'evils
■o grave that the benefits to be secured to the Uitlanders •
might well seem small in comparison. A nation is, no
doubt, bound to protect its subjects. But it could Hardly
be said that the hardships of this group of subjects,
which did not prevent others from flocking into the couq*
try, and which were no worse than they had been for
some time previously, were such as to forbid the exercise
of a little mors patience.
As to the Boer Ultimatum, Mr. Bryce says:
It was only in a technical or formal sense that the
Boers can be said to have begun the war; for a weak
State, which sees its enemy approach with a power that
will soon be irresistible, has only two alternatives, to
submit or to attack at once. In such a quarrel the
responsibility does not necessarily rest with those who
strike first. It rests with those whose action has
bloodshed inevitable.
The British Government placed themselves before
the world in a position of having caused a war
without ever formulating a casus belli. “ Strong
Powers dealing with weak ones are prone to think
that any kind of diplomacy will do.”
As to the Pan-Afrikander conspiracy theory,
Mr. Bryce says it seems to be an after-thought
intended to excuse the failure of diplomacy. “‘lt
could not have been helped anyhow.’ ‘lt was
bound to come,’ —phrases such as these are the
last refuge of despairing incompetence.” And no
evidence in support of this theory has been pro-
duced. “There is not,” he says, “a shred of
evidence that the Boers contemplated an attack
on Britain. The needs of defence sufficiently ex-
plain the accumulation of warlike munitions on
whioh so much stress has been laid.” A conflict
between English and Dutch was not inevitable.
It is to be hoped that this authoritative judgment
will silence the. slanders formulated by the
Rhodesian press in Africa, and copied by some
Australian newspapers, to the effect that the
Boers desired war and conspired for war. Before
the Jameson Raid, Pretoria was practically un-
defended. After thp Raid —backed by a British
Minister—the Boers naturally hastened to set
their country in readiness against a second attack
on their liberties.
So far as Britain was concerned, the way to
avert a conflict was to have patience. Haste had
been her bane in South Africa. It was haste
which annexed the Transvaal in 1877. It was
haste which in 1880 wrecked the plan of South
African Confederation. It was haste which
brought about the main source of recent troubles,
the invasion by the South African Company’s
police in 1895. With regard to the future, Mr.
Bryce takes a gloomy view :
Reconcilement and fusion have now, to al! appearances,
been thrown back into a dim and distant future. That
man must be sanguine indeed who expects, as some per-
sons say they do expect, to see the relations of the two
races placed on a better footing by a bitter war between
them, a war which has many of the incidents of a civil
war, and is waged on one side by citizen soldiers. To
most observers it seems more likely to sow a crop of
dragon's teeth, which will produce a harvest, if not of
armed men, yet of permanent hatred and dissatisfaction.
And this is the war in which Australians have
been lured and encouraged to take part !
TRAMPS— AUSTRALIAN AND ENGLISH.
From “ Landlopers.”
Chatter.
FROM two, or three sources come hints that
Mrs. Marcus Clarke isn’t prospering in her
pilgrimage to sell Clarke’s minor novels in
England. How could she, hope it?
“Chidipck Tichbourne,” “ ’Twixt Shadow and
Shine, ” and the rest —they are worth nothing.
Clarke always wan ted a spark of reality to fire his
imagination ; he never provided his spark.
(Mnemonic mem. for the people who will write
“Clark”—he ends with an e ; same as “His
Natural Life.”)
The pirate.publisher lives on both sides of the
Atlantic. The second “Dooley” book is (in
America) dedicated to Newnes and Routledge,
who issued unauthorised editions of the first.
A*
Perhaps America is (tardily) beginning to
honour Poe; and a bust of him was recently un-
veiled for the University of Virginia —a perturbed,
anxious, wrinkled bust by Zolnay (whom one
takes on credit as a sculptor of renown).
A now American book, John Sa* tain’s ‘ Re*®* -
lections,” relates that “Annabel Lee” was the
last poem Poe ever wrote. It was bought tor
said Bartain’s Union Magazine, but, before publi-
cation, they found that Annabel had previously
been sold to three other publishers. This pose* as
fresh news ; but it can’t be. Some local writers
assimilated the incident and the moral year* ago.
JX JX .
John Oliver Hobbes is ready with “Robert
Orange”—a sequel to “The School for Saint*
(presumably some people have read “The School
right through). There were so many instructing
us already that it would have been kind of Airs.
Craigie to remain amusing—if she could.
4 JX
“ The Pineros were originally Jews from Porta-
gal, who settled in London at the beginning of the
last century. The dramatist’s grandfather, Isaac,
changed the name ‘ Pinheiro ’ to its present form.
Said grandfather married the niece of Captain
Wing, who fought at Trafalgar ; hence Mr.
Pinero’s middle name. . . Of mere literary coinci-
dences in modem times, the most curious was that
of the Mrs. Ebb-Smith who drowned herself be-
cause she thought Mr. Pinero had sketched her U*
his play of almost exactly that name.”
From “Landlopers.”
Read in Charles Kingsley’s “Hereward the
Wake ” an account of a plunder-war of eight cen-
turies ago, when the Normans attacked England
—the veneered, “ religious,” sophisticated race
conquered the simple, pious, “ barbarous ” one.
Compare the Norman shouts “Dex aie! On for
the gold of Ely ! ” with the current British “Dex
aie! On for the gold of Johannesburg!” No
essential difference in eight centuries— blood,
plunder, glory, still the animating motives—and
the same old shibboleths invoked. The more this
humanity changes, the more it is the same thing.
Perhaps the complacent African historian of eight
centuries hence will congratulate his nation on the
benefits of an early infusion of predatory blood.
Would Harold’s English have found slaughter
and slavery “comfortable” words and things in
view of “the benefits of the Norman' infusion ”
and the double-harnessing of “testament ” and co.
with “will” and co. ? How much comfort has
the frog under the harrow in somebody’s theory
that he makes a fine fertiliser ?
JX jX
It has been suggested in England that a day be
set apart for humiliation and prayer for success
in the Transvaal, war. As the British nation is
on its knees to Moloch, and the Nazarene is tem-
porarily put on the shelf till needed to impress
“ savages ” with the “idealmorality ” of the “Ser-
mon on the Mount ” (when practised by the other
fellow whose country you want to grab), the
“ humiliation” would probably consist in some-
thing akin to the gorilla’s breast-beating when
exciting himself to combat, and the prayer
“preyer ”) might run in the fashion sug-
gested at the head of this page.
JX JX
Admirers of that very great writer, Turgenev,
are commended to a fine notice of his work in
1 The Academy of Nov. 4 —and to the cheap English
translation of his works which forms the basis of
the notice. It is permitted to snatch this frag-
ment of reminiscence, with the note that Turgenev
never married. He said his existence was “satu-
rated with femininity”—
With me, neither books nor anything whatever in the
world could take the place of woman. How can I make
that plain to you? I find it is only love which produces
a certain expansion of the being, that nothing else gives
.. . eh? Listen! When quite a young man X once
had a mistress, a miller’s girl in the neighborhood of St.
Petersburg, whom I used to see when out hunting. She
was charming, very fair, with a flash of the eye rather
■ common among us. She would accept nothing from roe.
But one day she said to me ; “ You must give me a pre-
sent.”
“ What is it you want ?"
“ Bring me some scented soap from St. Petersburg.”
I brought her the soap. She took it, disappeared,
came back blushing, and murmured, offering roe her
hands, delicately scented :
“ Kiss my hands—like you kiss the hands of ladies in
drawing rooms at St. Petersburg.”
I threw myself on my knees—and, you know, that was
the finest moment of my life.
According to Marcel Schwob, classed by Sidney
Colvin (that note of exclamation to Stevenson) as
“the first living authority on Francois Villon,”
the famous “ Testament ’’ is really a violent satire
against the speculators and the administration of
the exchequer in Villon’s time. Colin Laurent,
Girard Gossouyn, and Jehan Mareeau were
greedy usurers and traffickers in salt; and the
passage concerning them is bitter irony.
THE BOOKFELLOW.


SECOND-HAND
AND
N EW /n P F? NITUR ®
(Best Quality).
}
BUY FKOM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is equivalent
to £5 Earned I
Kvery requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully so per cent, less than prices charged else-
where. Cali and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL Sc CO.,
278 Georire-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
zfkin Wi6ease4.
s9leu) Wkeodery
“*£igmo{{iene. ”
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN CURE.
LIGrMOLLIENE
Never fails to CUBE
ECZEMA in all its forms.
BARC.OO Rash, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays Instantaneously all Irritation and
Soreness.
SURPRISING CURES AFTER YEARS
OF SUFFERING.
WHAT THE DOCTORS SAT:—
“Woolloston House, Oastlemaine, Nov. 30, 1897. My
dear Mr. Malyon,—l have used your ointment Ligmolliene
with distinct success in my own case, but with greater as
an emollient unguent for the face of a young lady suffer-
ing from ‘ Acne,’ very common during puberty, and you
should push it in that direction. Sir. Best, solicitor,
speaks most highly of it in his own bad case of Eczema.
Kindly send me another box of it.—Yours truly, GEO. I).
WOOLLEY, M.D.”
What the Hon. W. H. EMBLING, M.D., M.L.O.,says
“Melbourne, May 27, 1899. Mr. W. H. Malyon.—Dear
Sir, —I have been using your Ligmolliene Ointment for
some time for a lady friend of mine suffering from Chronic
Eczema, and have found it gives her great relief. She
’says it is the best remedy she ever tried for that com-
plaint.—Yours faithfully, W. H. EMBLING, M.D.”
LIGMOLLIENE is acknowledged by all who
have used it to be worth its weight in gold.
LIGMOLLIENE CREAM SOAP
(Registered.)
Is a Pure, Neutral, strongly Antiseptio, and Curative
Soap, for the treatment of parasitic, and the various
superficial affections of the skin, among which may be
mentioned, ITCHING, PRICKLY-HEAT, CHAPPED
HANDS, SUNBURN, &c. It allays instantaneously all
irritation and soreness, and is especially valuable for the
cleansing of wounds, and ulcers. It will also be found a
thorough luxury for shampooing, effectually cleansing
the scalp from Dandriff, and for all nursery and bath
purposes.
Ligmolliene Cream Soap is sold in oval tablets at Is
each, stamped with the trade mark “ Ligmolliene.” Can
be obtained from all chemists throughout Australasia.
Discovered by the Proprietor,
WILLIAM HENRY MALYON,
Manufacturing Chemist ,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
SOLD IN METAL BOXES.
ss. a.xid. 7s- ScT. Ea,cli.
'JVTTosted anywhere when stamps received for postage.
Wholesale Agents—ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney ;
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO. LTD.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Caution.— Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAEEHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to bo
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS’ IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BR&YAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood.and e na-
blingtlu- constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
for weak and
debilitated children.
LANCET, “A. beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-^*/*has
the good effects of iron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blacken the teeth."
SOI D BY CHEMISTS AM, THF. WORM) OVER.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette-
sad
W. JNO. BAKER’S
FARMER’S or STATION
_KNIFE (Kegd.)
Length when closed, 4 inches. 7s. each, post free, or 3 for 20s.
Smaller size for vest pocket, 6s. each.
Pearl or Tortoiseshell handle for presentation, small, Bs. 6d.
and large, 10s. 6d. each ; posted free to any colony. Name
engraved, Is. each.
<• iVKBR,
Cutler, 3 Hunter-at., Sydney
■W. JNO.
Co-Operative Wool&Produce Co
* LIMITED.
Offices:
12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores—Central Whart,
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS:
Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE.
Lonc3 on, B.C.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
JA.RVIS
fwho has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial oiroles in the old oountry,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms,
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES J
N S. WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland—Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
Victoria—JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
. ,
ftSJS WE
e»f
f
COMBINES
WHISK*
PERFECTION OF QUALITY
WITH ABSOLUTE PURITY
&0l* u&
0
(jU&
GOOD KA.IR JB*OFL ALL!
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer.
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLANDS PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S N ATURALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. 6d. Postage,
9d. extra.
Washington H. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
MOHR’S
KIPPER PASTE.
In Tins about 2 ozs. and 4 ozs.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIH & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON ABERDEEN & SEVILLE.
Head Office '—9 & 10, Gt. Tower Street, London E.C.
44
*1
the
Battery managers
FRIEND '
RAHERVEY.
171 CLARENCE ST
*f COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
tiVdfi
3KJ-
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
Doctors Take |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Bowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent Physicians, Surgeons, <fcc., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRIICEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGG’S CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZENGES.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
Beat
The New Patent
Sound discs
■Completely overcome Deafness
■and Head Notses, no matter of
■howlong standing. Are the same
r to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St.j Melbourne.
This Will Interest Many.
AN insurance agent in Sydney says that if
anyone who is afflicted with Ner\ousness or
Weakness, in any form, will send their address to
Box IG6, Sydney, he will direct them
to a Perfect Cure, but has nothing to sell or
give ; only tells how he was cured. Hundreds
have tested it with success.
30 Days’ Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
REITS and
AFFIIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electria
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through,
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
sad
sa
ds
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
1 163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CHAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
LftflUl
Bluthner
PIANOS
Albert Fahr
PIANOS
August Heide
PIANOS
Estey Organs
Pianos
and
Organs
—ON —
Very
Easy
Terms
The Most Popular Piano in Australia.
THE
BLUTHIER
FIAJXTOFOKTES
Grand and Upright.
■ i< iq<" »»■ -
Descriptive Catalogues and Price Lists on
Application to
How to Learn
the Piano
in 3 Months.
Price,
6d.
Post Eree.
The
Federal
Music Books
Nos. 1 to 52.
The Best Shilling
Annuals in the
World. '
Catalogues mailed free to
any address.
Sole
Ageijts-
W. H- 6LEN & CO.,
359 ffeOTg’e Street, Sydney.
2*72 & 2*74 Collins St., Melbourne.


Address:
Care GEO. ADAMS,
Hobart.
GEELONG- 0. January 17.
25,000 Subscribers at 5*
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in tlie
above.
Name
Address,.
Anniversary H. January 2a
SO,OOO Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL. •
Please allot me .shares in the above.
Name
Launceston C. February 7.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
PT ame
Address
Hobart C. February 13.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
/
-shares in above.
Name
Address
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
s
Newmarket H. March 3 -
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
N ame
Address
Newmarket H. (Special) Drawn Morning of Race
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTEIISALL.
Please allot me shares
in the above.
Name
Address
£
:
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tattersall,” care Greo. Adams, Hobart.


9
is
Chills
Et«i beoo in®
chilled through and
through ?
The acute sen->
sat i o n of cold is
followed by fever-
ishness and aches in
all parts of the body.
Finally the whole
trouble settles in the
throat and lungs in
the shape of a cough.
There is nothing
so bad for a cough
as coughing.
ay«h
errx
■will cure these chills and coughs. A
few doses are sufficient at first. More
time is required later on.
Stop coughing and you will get well.
Keep coughing and you invite bronchi-
tis, pueumonia, or even consumption
itself. Better stop your cough at once
and thus end the whole matter.
Proofed by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
<o
oo
Good Things.
The Christmas issue of The Bulletin is good.
Likewise, good is MINERVA TONIC. The first
aims at instruction and amusement. The second
will assuredly rebuild your wasted constitution,
and prolong your life.
MINERVA TONIC is a phosphorised iron
syrup combined with certain rare restoratives.
It will promote sleep, create a good- appetite,
provide energy, and bring baok health and con-
fidence.
MINERVA TONIC is cordially recommended
by Mr. Luckham, Bulletin office, as well as
by thousands of men and women in the leading
business and social circles of the country.
As a Tonic, it is absolutely unique, and, as
a result, the testimonials given in its favor are
unique also. The British Lancet, the greatest
medical authority in the world, openly ap-
proves of MINERVA, and thereby recommends
it.
On sale by all chemists throughout Aus-
tralia.*
Tbs B. ai)d N.Trcatrpcot
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Rrain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energj', An®mia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. The B. and N. Food is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is reoommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency:
MELBOUKNE CHAMBERS, COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
ds
Warner's
■
Cure
for all forms of
Kidney* Liver Disorders
& BRIGHT’S DISEASE
t HH.WARNER 4 C? LTP
MELBOLIRNf., AUST,
d
GO TO HBLIi-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real erood stamps, sendto
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price*
Ball oratii.
Australia I? Provident Society
MONET TO LEND
On seourity of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES*
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-streefc. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
r
Sulkies, ±4 155., £'6 155.,
£S 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Backboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
£3T Send for Price List.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
sad
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
like Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOUItNE-ST., OONOOKP, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams Ac., Repaired bj
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
IVINOIAIII
JO 31B!AIIS~0Vd
IVAOU
FOR THE
KO
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL 1
ROYAL TESTIMONIAL I
n*tu
Cju
Ha 2 S'* 1
Cisut A#
([s\jl "&Jl/\Jc Q Q / h*tsu<A«)
°U: hiuLfyZo °CKjI -4jljXql
A/ys,
AsJ~&^/y
£\ UJUL&sJZ
et,4j
KOKO
sad
HAIR
Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents Hair Falling, Promote* Growth, and ft*
unique Testimonials prove it to be undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the Hair.
Perfectly Harmless, Clean, Coo 1 , A Invigoratir g. i-,a 6 A 4/6 slzt-s, of all Chemists,
Stores Ac. THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO.. LTD.. 16, Bevis Marks, LONDON, ENG.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
T*
b
o
V
&
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
AI! Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d., 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade <fe Ca,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
sad
sad
Tiie Universal Remedy for Acidity or the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
I MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
sad
s
Sold Throughout the World.
N,8,-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
KT.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price Lise. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7 ;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we oan. They eanaot do so, and you pay 16 per
se»* more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUK SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
dsa
D«liTered at any Wharf *r
N.8.W. Railways, Station
£tO 10/-
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Charon.
Who goes across those waters
On which the moon ne’er shone,
With the passenger he came for
As in a dream moved on ?
Cypress and yews o’ershadow
The verge on either side,
Within whose boughs for ever
The winds of woe abide.
And all the air is haunted
With a wail that seems to flow
From the living lips of Sorrow
As the ages oome and go.
The boatman, dumb and hoary.
Pulls with a steady pull,
And the dead man seems to listen
To voices beautiful.
And it may be the weird River
Has sights we cannot see,
And the far shore burns its signals
Of eerie mystery.
And Charon knows each signal—
Above the River’s rim
The spectral lights that glimmer
Are pilot-stars for him.
Ay me ! he knows the water
As few, few boatmen know)
*Tis not the first he’s taking
Down where we all must go !
R. CRAWFORD .
Aphrodite.
A pearling lugger ; blue the waves she skims on,
And suddenly a flashing kris, a gasp,
A blaok fin gliding through a splash of orimson—
A foamborn gem clutohed in the cut-throat's
grasp.
A drug-besotted, yellow pirate dreaming,
Curled on the benoh beside a wretched girl;
And lustrous from the squalid litter gleaming
Upon the harlot’s throat a spotless pearl.
An Eastern shim beneath the moonlight cruel,
The grimy back shop of a Jewish fence ;
A blear-eyed jade, and her malignant jewel
That shines demure in milkwhite innocenoe.
O angel face ! O smooth, delusive fashion !
O saintly mask that covers depths unguessed !
O Love that has devoured my heart with passion !
I pin this pearl, an emblem, to your breast.
Q.
VON KOTZE.
The Last Toast.
Fill up your glasses, ye topers !
Fill them fair up to the brim ;
Fill for a toast to our Ultimate Iloab
Waiting us, patient and grim.
Here’s to the Shadow behind us !
Here’s to the Knave we shall know !
Here’s to his wine that is bitter as brine,
And here’s to his lodging below 1
Broad is his bosom and ample—
Wide hath he set us the door;
Go as ye will in his mansion so still,
Yet he hath housing for more;
Pledge him a bumper so hearty,
Give him a song ere we go,
Here’s to his wine that is bitter as brine,
And here’s to his lodging below !
Mark how he kisseth the maiden,
Kisseth her cold and pale ;
See how they come to the call of his drum,
Feeble and hearty and hale ;
Gaunt are the legions he gathers
Down where the cypresses grow ;
Mystical bane,is the wine that they drain
Down in his lodging below !
Lo, He hath harbored our fathers ;
He hath been kind to our kin,
Lapping them all in his passionless pall
Shriving them free of their sin ;
He will be good to our children,
Hushing them tenderly so,
Stilling their moan with a croon of his own,
Down in his lodging below.
Why should we falter and fear him ?
Hath he not healing and rest ?
Doth he not cull us and tenderly lull us ?
Are we not babes of his breast ?
So here’s to the hand of the Reaper,
Here’s to the men he shall mow,
Here’s to the wine that is bitter as brine,
And here’s to the lodging below !
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
At the Dance.
The fun is fast, and the music loud,
And the dancers pass in a circling crowd,
And eyes are ablaze and locks are tossed,
And love in a maze of joy is lost.
Then it’s toe and heel, and around we go
While the senses reel to the music’s flow ;
For faults are rife when the spin s too slow;
And the salt of life is its sins, we know.
Then fill the cup with the red, red wine,
And drink it up to the hours that shine,
And breathe the bloom of the red, red rose,
And give joy room while the music flows.
There’s a tomb for tears, and a grave for grief
In the youthful years of a life too brief ;
Then bury them deep while the music’s high—
There’s a time to weep —and a time to die.
V.
BEN SUN.


The Australian Widows’ Feed [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
'PHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENYVICK,
Hon. J. H. OARRUTHERS;
M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.IICL
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,300,000 Annual Income ... ... exceeds £215,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MUItNIN, Resident Secretary.
Tb€ R€AL MAC KAY
FINEST OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
IN CLARET BOTTLES.
Harrison & A.ttwood, Sole Proprietors
Where to stay in Sydney 9
Jt,
TERMS MODERATE.
Tiramn^
HOTELS
PITT STREET.
W. J. Adams, Manager.
HAMBURG
STRAUSS
HUNDT
Pianos
dsa
SPECIAL VALUE &. RELIABLE CONSTRUCTION
E.V. FmCKH&COB3 YORK ST, SYDNEY.
GAS COOKERS.
The “ Eureka ” gas Cooker
May NOW BE OBTAINED from
The Australian Gaslight Company by payment
of £1 Cash and lOs. Monthly, until paid off.
If gas is in the room the Cooker will be connected FREE
OF COST to the Consumer.
CSP'" Five per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash Purchases.
FREE COOKERY LECTURES
IN TUB
CO’S SHOWROOMS, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, every Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.30,
where Gas Accounts may also be paid.
STICK T©
\ e?\me©
CIGARETTES
NOBEL-6LAS6OW EXPLOSIVES.
Dynamite. - Gelatine. - Dynamite.
DETONATORS:
NOBEL’S.
“Thistle” Brand.
4 /Itf®
ELECTRIC
DETONATORS
and
FUSE.
.Gelignite, Blasting Gelatine.
ALL CARTRIDGES BRANDED.
AGENTS: N.S. W., Messrs. Dalgety & Co. Ltd.; Victoria
'NOBEL’S Sportiog BALLISTITE.
Does not strain the gun. Perfectly Smokeless and Waterproof.
UNAFFECTED
BY HEAT.
UNAFFECTED
by
MOISTURE.
U 1
TE
PENETRATION
Excellent.
VELOCITY
Unsurpassed,
SPORTING BALLISTITE won over <£2500 at Gun Club, Notting Hill and Hnrling-
| k ham in April and May, 1899; or over <£looo more than any other powder.— Vide 1 ield, June 24, 99.
\ PAR.VO 2-inoh Sporting Cartridges are specially recommended for Rabbit and Small Game
Shooting, and can be used in any chambered gun.
Messrs. Briscoe & Co.; Queensland, Messrs. Brabant & Co.
P&B
RUBEROID
ROOFING
CHEAPER THAN IRON
P&B FAOTOBIES
AGENTS
SAN FRANCISCO
NEW YORK
HAMBURG
E, RICH & CO. LTD.
PARTICULARS.
P & R Ruberoid Roofing'
Has for a foundation very strong felt, which is thoroughly
saturated with a permanently soft solution of P & B water and
acid-proof compound. Before finishing a harder coating of
similar composition is applied, which protects the interior and
makes it impossible to dry out or be affected by atmospheric
changes.
P & B Ruberoid Roofing
Is made in four thicknesses or plies—£, 1,2, and 3 (the
heaviest). 2or 3 ply are recommended for permanent roofs,
i or 1 ply being used for buildings of less staple character.
The approximate weights (crated) and prices are as follows:
i ply ( 701b5.) 17/6 per roll, 3ft. wide 72ft. long.
1 ply ( 851b5.) 21/6 „ „
2 ply (1051b5.) 29/- „ „ „
3 ply (1351b5.) 30/- „
Three ply Ruberoid (the heaviest) is about an eighth of an
inch thick.
P & B Ruberoid Roofing
Is strong, durable, light, safe, and waterproof ; water is not
injured by flowing over it and may be used for all domestic
purposes. It is about the colour of new slate. In laying
P & B Ruberoid the edges are lapped two inches, and
Ruberine (Liquid Cement) is applied between with a brush
cold. After fixing with the nails, spaced 2in. between points,
a final coat of Ruberine should be applied over the seam,
which will prevent rusting. We supply (free of charge)
sufficient Ruberine (Cement) to secure the 2in. seams, also
nails and washers for fixing each roll.
P & B Ruberoid Roofing
May be laid. First, over a foundation of close boarding;
Second, over a Galvanised Wire Netting 36in. wide, 3in. mesh,
and 16 guage ; Third, over lin. by 3in. battens spaced 3in.
apart. Laid over Netting being the least expensive method,
and much cheaper than iron. The saving varies (according to
the district supplied and the thickness used) from 6/- to 20/-
per 200 square feet.
Pour Years’ Use
Of this material in Australia has demonstrated that its endur-
ance in this climate is quite eqtial with its known life in
America. We, therefore, recommend it with confidence.
E. RICH & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the Geneial Post OJjice, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 21.—N0. 1039.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 13, 1000.
Peics Ga
f d r
~c
II , ft
ui &s-t. £,/
nV~
Sjt
7 H-j
/
a'l
"«»t
\
/
d
"x.. 1 (w J-K
&i: }
Zf
•p^
ksr,^
,
l J>
sad
s
c*kc£*Y<c/~ : £_ <
RATS!
It has been suggested that a Holy War should be waged against rats which are supposed to carry around the germs of Bubonic Plague. Those loyal and raliant citfcen.
who didn't go to the war can join in the crusade of extermination.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• 9 ?
Half-yearly u n L t °
Quarterly U b b
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shiilinips sterling—with postage added, where
which you may pay by Post Oflice Order, Postal N *
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian piomnce,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you evei y
week for a year.
Cheques , Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed'to William Macleod, Managing Oirector.
Literary Communications to be addressea o.
Archibald. ,
TTie'^tHle^x/n.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 13, 1900.
The “Traitors” at the Cape.
The desperately “loyal” section of the
Australian press —the servile section whose
God is J ohn Bull, and whose idea of loyalty
is to swear that whatever Bull does is right
however glaringly wrong it may be, and to
slander and malign and lie about everyone
with whom Bull has a just or unjust quarrel
—is especially bitter just now against the
Boer sympathisers in British South Africa.
One or two of the wildly-frenzied patriots
and papers who disgrace Australia more than
half suggest even the execution of Presidents
Kruger and Steyn and their principal sup-
porters, if captured. If France or Germany
or Russia were waging war with Britain, and
their papers proposed the hanging of Queen
Victoria on a sour apple tree if the chance
came in their way, doubtless the barbarism
of the idea would fully strike these wild and
drunken fragments of the community. As for
the Boers on the British side of the border who
aid or openly sympathise with their brethren
of the two republics, the loyal press is solid
on the necessity for their prompt execution,
and hold that their offence is beyond all
consideration. They are “traitors, and
“rebels,” also “ungrateful ruffians who
have tasted the blessings of free British
institutions and now turn to bite the hand
of their generous host.” Likewise, they are
many other things, including “murderers,”
“stirrers up of strife” and “dealers in
sedition,” and their crime is so obviously
without possible excuse that defence is use-
less. In fact, to even suggest that there
may be a defence is a proof of disloyalty,
and a matter which calls for inquiry and
possibly other things to follow.
. * * *
To the unreasoning herd which only con-
siders that the Cape is British territory, and
that for the inhabitants of any country’s
territory to sympathise with any foreign
enemy under any circumstances is treason,
this reasoning is satisfactory enough. The
Cape Dutchmen are traitors—technically at
least. The Cape territory belonged formerly
to Holland, but it became permanently
and definitely British about the time of the
great cleaning-up when Napoleon I. was ex-
tinguished, and the Powers proceeded to put
straight again the world-map which he had
so badly disorganised. Many things hap-
pened about that time. It was agreed that
Norway should be violently handed over to
Sweden whether the inhabitants desired it or
not, as a reward for the miserably inefficient
aid lent by King John Bernadotte in
the campaign which ended in Napoleon’s
downfall at Leipsic. It was agreed that
Belgium, despite the bitter complaints of the
Belgian people, should be given to Holland;
that Lombardy and Venice should be put
under the iron heel of Austria ; that Poland
should go back definitely to its old servi-
tude ; that Greece should remain a Turkish
province (in fact this latter point was
hardly even called in question); and
that Naples should again be enslaved
by old, long-bearded Ferdinand. Also
the Pope again became a King in a
small way, without any special regard
for the wishes of the Roman people. And
about this time, and among the general
handing over of small communities to large
ones, Britain became definitely possessed
of the Cape of Good Hope. Having a
more uneasy conscience than the other
annexers, Britain paid cash for the new
territory, and Holland took the money grate-
fully. It had no hope of getting back the
Cape in any case, and it was better to lose it
and get cash for it than to lose it gratis.
But the Dutch population of the Cape wasn’t
consulted, nor was it affected by the cash
aspect of the case. And thereafter, if the
Cape Dutchman rose against Britain, or the
Greek against Turkey, or Garibaldi against
King Bomba, or the Poles against Russia,
or the Belgians against Holland, or the
Spaniards against their priestly king and the
restored Inquisition, or the Italians against
Austria, or the Romans against their holy
Pontiff, they were all equally rebels.
* * * *
Of the communities which were handed
over about this time, and in this off-hand
manner, all save the Norwegians, the Poles,
and the Cape Dutch have since upset the
arrangement by force of arms. And Britain
sympathised with all the rebels—except her
own crowd of rebels. Her claim on the
loyalty of the Cape Dutchmen lies, first of
all, in the fact that she bought them— like so
many cattle. It lies, secondly, in the fact
that she gave them, probably, a better form
of government than was enjoyed by any
other of the transferred races—the Norwe-
gians only excepted. Yet British rule at the
Cape has been no greater an improvement
on that of the Dutch than the Russian rule
inPolandis ontheold Polish anarchy, or than
the yoke of Austria in Venice was on that of
the decayed Venetian oligarchy. If Britain
lifted her new subjects from the ways of the
eighteenth century to those of the nine-
teenth, the other two nations dragged their
unwilling subjects frqm the darkness of the
sixteenth century to the dim light of the
seventeenth or thereabouts. They all ex-
pected gratitude and none of them got it.
Britain, while perfectly able to understand
the situation as regards the other States,
can’t even begin to understand it in her own
case. And probably Austria and Russia
were equally able to understand why the
Cape Dutchmen never became fully recon-
ciled to British rule, and yet couldn’t even
begin to comprehend what right or reason
Poland and Lombardy had to object.
* * ♦ *
Certainly the men of the old Dutch majority
of the Cape Colony never did fully acquiesce
in the policy whereby they were bought by
an alien Power without their consent, and
unless the buying of human beings is lawful
there is no special reason why they should.
They were told, no doubt, that they were
the gainers by the exchange, and that British
rule was vastly better than the old Dutch
domination. Their reply, if these silent
owners of many cattle had put it into words,
w r ould doubtless have been that every nation
says its system of ruling is the best ; but
even if it is, the people have a right to prefer
their own bad government to the stranger’s
good one if they feel so inclined, or else
the alleged rights of man are a fraud, and
the alleged principles of self-government are
a delusion and a hypocrisy. And, if
the rights of the white population only
are considered (the black population, in
considering the disposal of the country, was
left out of court by mutual consent) their
position was perfectly logical. Even the
recent granting of so-called self-governing
powers has no bearing on the real question
at issue. During the many years when the
Cape had no self-governing powers, it was
provided by its new rulers with a vast mass
of well-meant law that was to a great extent
alien to the spirit and ideas of its people.
And then it was granted a limited autonomy ;
in other words the Dutch majority may alter
that foreign law in so far as the veto of its
foreign rulers permits, but it may not call
in question the one fact that it wants
to call in question—the fact that it was
purchased by a strange nation, and handed
over without its consent, and that foreign
governors, and the veto of a foreign sovereign,
and the constant sight of a foreign flag, and
the ever-present bayonets of a foreign nation’s
army of Absent-Minded Beggars, keep it in
constant remembrance of its subjection.
• * * *
To the Australian “loyalist,” with that
melancholy inability to put himself in the
other man’s place which characterises so
many people besides loyalists, the Cape
Dutchman is merely a coarse, brutal traitor
filled with Original Sin. He is a person
who, after being kindly and hospitably
treated, wants to stab his host in the back—
no allowance being made for the fact that
the host first forcibly annexed his guest’s
house, and that, no matter how kindly the
new owner may afterwards permit the old
one to stay in the house, or how cordially he
may tell him to make himself at home there
during good behaviour, that old proprietor
is never likely to feel quite good towards
him. If Britain sold Australia to Russia
without the authority of the people, and
Russia reformed its political methods and
governed the country for many years with
the most benevolent of despotisms, and im-
posed on it good foreign laws and systems
that it didn’t understand, and only hanged
the people when they objected forcibly to
Russian rule—still the strange garrison, and
the strange language, and the strange flag,
and the feeling of subjection to the stranger,
and the degradation of knowing that they
had been sold like so many slaves or cattle,
would probably keep a festering sore open
for centuries. Considering the mutinous
spirit in which Australia objected to the
presence of the British troops, and its
openly expressed joy when the last red-coat
quitted the country, it would be many times
more “ traitorous ” than the Cape under like
conditions. The new rule might be better
than the old one (the Australian has shown
such a thriftless and slovenly incapacity for
self-government that he might easily find
some foreigner who would rule him more
wisely than he has ruled himself) but that
would probably make little difference. And
if the Australian revolted he would be
technically a “traitor”; also he would be
“an ingrate who tried to stab his generous
host in the back ” and all the other expres-
sions of loathing now current but all the
vituperation under Heaven wouldn t make
him feel as if he was any of these things.
He would still call himself a patriot and a
Garibaldi and a Kosciusko,though he can t
look at the other man in that aspect.
* * * *
The Cape Dutchman’s reasons for object-
ing to the easy yoke of Britain are just the
same noble reasons which the Australian
loyalist uses for his own glory and for the
Dutchman’s cursing and degradation. The
Cape “ traitor ” is also devoted to the flag—
the flag which is a symbol that part of his
race is still ruled by men of its own
kind and its own speech. He has also
ideas about the “ crimson thread of kinship.
He believes that “ blood is thicker than
water.” He hears the voice of his brothers
calling just as loudly as the Australian
does. He reckons he has the same right to
join in their quarrel without asking if it be
right or wrong as the Australian has. He
doesn’t hold himself a traitor to the country
that bought his ancestors, because he never
admitted that that pu:chase gave it any
right to his fealty. If he took oaths of
allegiance to Queen Victoria his theory is
that the road to eminence in every walk of
public life was barred to the man who didn t
take that formal oath, and it was therefore
in the nature of' a forced obligation. He is
as noble as Kosciusko, so belauded in Eng-
lish verse. Kosciusko fought to exchange
the bad rule of Russia for the worse rule of
the old Polish noblesse , and to bring back
the old Polish freedom under which nine-
tenths of the Polish people were slaves. If
it is a crime for a misguided patriot to pre-
fer independence and (possibly) bad govern-
ment to foreign subjection and (possibly)
better government, then Britain should
either put the Cape “ rebel ” and the Polish
patriot on the same pedestal—or it should
ban them with the same curse. They were
fighting against very different foreign rulers,
but all things are comparative, and the
Russian autocracy was quite as superior to
the old bloodstained Polish anarchy as British
rule is to the rule of Paul Kruger..
• * * *
It may be for the world’s good in the end
that Kruger should go under and that his
Cape sympathisers should be suppressed.
On the" other hand it may not ; only a
prophet can tell. But at all events the foam
and fury of the wild Australian loyalist be-
cause the British Boer doesn’t love his
purchaser is quite uncalled for. He would
do exactly the same as the Cape and hiatal
“ traitors ” if he was in the same situation ;
and he would be despised by his children,
and his children’s children, and his wild-eyed
bard, and his horse-poet, and his dog-poet,
and his long-haired “ patriot,” and his
orator, and his Dan O’Connor if he didn’t.
The Australian “loyalist,” because he is loyal
to what he regards as his own flag, is furious
at the Cape Dutchman because he isn’t loyal
to a flag that to him only represents foreign
conquest and foreign domination—and
foreign purchase. The Australian never
tried the experience of having to be loyal to
a French or German flag, under penalty of
being reviled as a traitor by papers written
in a language that isn’t his own, and hanged
by a grieved and benevolent foreign Govern-
ment that was deeply shocked at his ingrati-
tude. If he did, he might still fight against
what he calls the Cape “ traitor,” for the de-
sire to go out and kill some complete
stranger is strong in the human soul ; but if
he was any kind of a gentleman, he would
at least revile that “traitor” in a milder key.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wanted—State Land-Grant Railways.
The years roll on, and Tasmania still waits for
its Great Western Land-Grant Railway. The
syndicate which was to build the line, and own
it, and charge practically what fares and
freights it pleased, and get a present of about
one-sixteenth of the whole province for doing
it, gets no further forward even under these
favorable conditions. It refuses to put up the
cash and start work in a plain business-like
way ; in fact, it apparently hasn’t the cash to
put up. Therefore it wants to float the con-
cession for a gorgeous lump sum in England,
and then go away with the profit, and have no
more trouble. But it asked <£850,000 boodle for
itself, and the concession, so far, has failed to
float at that awful price ; so now the syndicate
suggests, in addition to the other things, that
the Tasmanian Government should guarantee
interest on £600,000 worth of the co.’s deben-
tures. Of course, the Tasmanian Govern-
ment might as well guarantee interest
on .£600,000 worth of its own deben-
tures, and build the line with the money,
and own the line itself, and get the profits
itself, and save the huge land-grant, but
though the Government seems to understand
this sufficiently to reject the syndicate’s latest
and most impudent proposal, still it apparently
fails to realise that the whole Great Western
railway business is about the most incredible
swindle that the island ever suffered from up
to date. Here is the situation condensed :
(1) The Government’s west-coast railways are the only
ones which pay expenses and interest on construction.
Every other line in Tasmania shows a loss. The western
district, where it is proposed to bribe private syndicates
with immense land-grants to build and own railways, is
the one paying district in the province—the district above
all others where the State should insist on owning the
lines itself to make up for the losing business in the east
and centre. . , ...
(2) The whole land-grant railway business is a fraud.
The usual mode of reasoning is that, if a railway can’t
be profitably built and worked by the State without a
subsidy in land or otherwise, then a company should be
allowed to build it with a subsidy. Which is foolishness
and unholv rot. If it is estimated that the Great Wes-
tern railway can’t he built and worked profitably unless
Helped by a grant of (say) a million acres, then the obvi-
ous course is for the State to build it and to hand over the
million acres to its own railway department to make up
the loss. It should build its own land-grant railways, in
short.
(3) Whether the railway is built with money raised in
England by a company, or with money raised in England
by the Government, the people ot Tasmania, who use the
line, must pay the interest. And the people who have to
pay the interest owe the principal to all intents and pur-
poses. So the bill figures out like this : If the Govern-
ment built the Great Western Railway at a cost of (say)
£1,000,000, the interest would be about 3i per cent.—
£32,000 a year. If the syndicate built it the cost of the
actual line would probably be about the same, and in
addition there is a trifle of £850,000 plunder demanded
by the promoters, making £1,850,000 to pay interest on.
And the syndicate will want at least 4 per cent.—£74,ooo
a year. Tasmania has to pay the interest either way.
The only difference is that if it built the line itself the
bill would be £32,500 annually ; if it lets the syndicate
build it, the bill will be about £74,000. Also the syndi-
cate is to get the land-grant in addition.
For these reasons the private land-grant rail-
way is a fraud, and the promoter thereof is a
public enemy, and the politicians who abet
him are mostly boodlers and speculators, or
else they are too hopelessly incapable to
see the points of the game. The quality
of the average syndicate politician’s honesty
or intelligence can be gauged by the
invariable argument with which the land-grant
syndicate’s case is supported : “ The State
can’t build and work this railway without a land-
grant, therefore a private co. should be allowed
to do it with one. It is admitted that the line
can be made to pay handsomely if the earnings
are assisted by the income derivable from, say,
1,000,000 acres of land ; so instead of setting
aside 1,000,000 acres of our own land for the
purpose, and making our own railway pay, and
taking the profits ourselves, let us give the
million acres to a shindykit and let it take the
profits.” That is the whole case boiled down,
and every politician who supports private land-
grant railways on such a case calls for careful
inspection to see if it is dishonesty or only plain
stupidity that is the matter with him.
The White Flag-.
Certain Australian dailies reprinted some
remarks from G. W. Steevens’ Daily Mail
war letter re Boer treatment of prisoners at
Nicholson’s Nek, but without large type display
or any moral reflections. “ The Boers took their
revenge for many things, full measure, in
kindness.” “ They tended the wounded and
succoured the prisoners. . . . They gave the
whole men the water out of their bottles ; they
gave the wounded the blankets off their own
saddles, and slept themselves on the naked
veldt. They sent the wounded back to Lady-
smith, giving mules for their conveyance,
although they needed mules badly themselves,
and they broke up rifle stocks to make splints
although Lee-Melfords were scarce amongst
them.” The British officer in command flew the
white flag in token of surrender, of which, says
Steevens, apparently unconscious of the signifi-
cance of his remarks : —
It is some sneaking consolation that for a long time the
soldiers refused to heed it. Careless now of life, they
were sitting up well behind their breastworks, altering
their sights, aiming coolly by the half-minute together.
This time, be it noted, it was not a case of the
treacherous and malignant Boers hoisting the
white flag of truce and then firing on their
enemies—but the British. And—here comes
the astounding part of the case—the British
scribe, who is so enraged at Boer treachery
in doing exactly this thing, is proud of it when
The Saving of the Empire.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Britannia sat in trouble,
With grey, gaunt, ashen look ;
The hand that grasped her trident
With nervous terror shook ;
The seas that were her bu wark
Were trembling with her throes,
When up against her power
Two small Republics rose.
They were singing ‘ ‘ Rule Britannia ”
In the music-halls,
When they saw the fateful writing
On the painted walls,
For it holds till this day sure
The legend sad —
Whom the high gods would slay sure
They first make mad.
The Tower of London famous,
By Julius Csesar built,
It shook to its foundations—
Remembering old guilt ;
The Stock Exchange was blighted
By black and sudden frost,
When the Cassandra cable
Brought news of battles lost.
But they still sang “Rule Britannia ”
In the music-halls,
Though more lurid gleamed the writing
On the painted walls,
But they glared at each other
With eyes not glad —
Whom the high gods would smother
They first make mad.
The Constitution sacred,
In secret cellar kept,
Beneath the House of Commons,
No longer soundly slept;
It raised itself up slowly,
W ith aching limbs and numb,
And visage melancholy—
And moaned “ My hour has come ! ’
Still they howled out “ Rule Britannia ’
In the music-halls,
Though the script had started marching
On the painted walls.
But their blood was as water,
Their feelings bad —
Whom the high gods would slaughter
They first make mad.
Then came the news tremendous,
Which flushed their faces wan—
That to the Empire’s rescue
“ A ” Battery had gone !
And ev’ry Briton living
His hat in frenzy waved,
And roared a hoarse thanksgiving
For the Em pire saved.
And they whooped out “Rule Britannia '
In the music halls,
And the lurid letters faded
From the painted walls. •
And the gods played second
Fiddles that day —
For they had not reckoned
On Battery “A.”
CREEVE ROE.


his own crowd do it, and relates it as a proof
of British valor, whereas similar conduct on
the other side is only a proof of Boer wicked-
ness. How different a thing looks when we do
it instead of the other fellow.
“A Disastrous Measure.”
Sydney Evening News persistently gathers
and publishes the opinions of small, angry
shopkeepers re early-closing, and declares the
Act “a disastrous measure.” The carefully-
selected shopkeepers are mostly newsagents —
apparently the great idea was to see if the sale
of the late edition with the ’Orror in it would
be injured. The news-agent promptly tickled
the willing ear of his interviewer with the
assurance that it would. The employers who
are applied to admit a lot of things. They
allow the information to be reluctantly torn
from them that they are good, honest, liberal-
minded men who never sweated their employes
and wouldn’t dream of such a thing, so the Act
is quite unnecessary. And they are sorry—
deeply sorry—for the shop assistants who, in
some inscrutable way, are going to be ruined by
not being worked so hard as formerly. Of
course, while the News looks for its informa-
tion only among employers it will get
this kind of information—until the first
unreasoning panic is over. It will probably
get it even after that, for the average
trader likes to pose as a man struck by
unmerited disaster—it helps his application
for a reduction in the rent. And it is impos-
sible to get much information from the em-
ployes as to the other side of the case. It
would be interesting to read that Mr. Smith,
employed in the well-known emporium of
Boggs and Cos., being interviewed, remarked
that Boggs and Cos. were sweaters of the
worst description, and their employes were
practically slaves till this Act came in force ;
also, that Boggs and Cos. were really doing
better now than in the long-hour days,
but denied it in the hope of getting the rent
reduced and with a view to faking their income-
tax schedule—but the average Smith knows
better. In fact, the average Smith knows the
average Boggs so well that he tries to look as if
he were rather sorry than otherwise to leave at
6 instead of 10 or 11. Therefore the newspaper
evidence is mostly on the Boggs side of the
case. Yet a ballot would probably show that
Boggs, though lie looks so imposing in print, is
only the tenth part of an insignificant minority,
or hardly even that.
+
Legal Illogicality.
The beauty of inconsistency ! At Ballarat
(Vic.) early in December, Chief Justice. Mad-
den released upon his own recognizances a
youth self-admitted to be guilty of unlawful
intimacy with a girl of 15, who professed to be
older; at the same time making sundry trite
observations upon the absurd law under which
the man, and not his equally guilty partner,
was punished. Also he gave it as his opinion
that the said law did vastly more harm than
good. Yet a week or two later, at Sale, the
same bewigged dispenser of justice apparently
altered his mind with startling suddenness.
Before him were brought two men, each charged
with intimacy with the common or precocious
damsel under 16. The girls were to all
appearances much over the stipulated age, and
were consenting parties, and in one case the
jury recommended to mercy, yet Madden, being
in a vile temper, or suffering from an impedi-
ment in his intellect or something, froze on to the
two offenders with great violence, and sentenced
each to twelve months’ hard labor and Jive lashes.
Some day, when the law is in a more sane
mood than usual, it will perhaps begin to con-
sider some aspects of this unwholesome matter
which it has hitherto neglected. For the pro-
tection of men it should be made a heavily
punishable offence for a girl of, say, 14 to look
as if she was over 16. Or else her unprincipled
conduct in alleging that she is over 16 when
she isn’t should rank as perjury, and be pun-
ished accordingly. Or, again, the law should pro-
vide some means, say, by tattooing the necessary
date on the shoulder, by which the painfully
complaisant female’s statement of her age can
be put to immediate proof. (Her frock
should, by legal enactment, always button down
the back, to facilitate reference.) The immoral,
large-sized, old-faced she-child who fraternises
with strange men, and alleges that she is years
nearer maturity than she is, and calls
her old-young countenance as a witness,
is a standing danger. If there was a
law requiring every female, under the
severest penalties, to w'ear short frocks till her
16th birthday, then the average man would
know what to do. When he saw a short-
skirted damsel looming up on the horizon he
would either run for his life or give her notice
not to approach within 100 yards at her peril.
At present, everything is loose and unfixed,
and every girl is supposed to be as old as she
looks—which she often isn’t; and as bad as she
looks—which she often isn’t, for in many cases
she is a great deal worse ; aud everj man is
supposed to know things which Solomon in all
his glory didn’t know, and the law is an ass,
and the average Judge is its prophet.
+
Spreading Out.
“ Hermes ” on the attenuated nature of
things:—
The other day a French Minister told a mob of French
jingoes that France with her almost stationary popula-
tion would be choosing the wiser part if she abstained
from annexing more territory and settled down to
develop what she already had. Looking at the map of
the world one cannot help being struck with the
thought that when “ Bobs,” Duller, Kitchener,
and Cos., have wiped the “Boer blot” off the
map of South Africa the time will have arrived
when the great British Empire should lay down its
smoking rifle, put its lyddite shell in its pocket, and
seriously contemplate the fact that it is getting spread
out horribly thin. In fact, the white population of the
modern Rome (including some millions of more or less
disloyal Dutch, Irish and not too enthusiastic French
Canadians) is merely one solitary white daub among six
daubs of various colors. Moreover the Empire is not a
solid hunk of territory which can be gridironed with
strategic railways, it is a collection of fragments scattered
far apart, and in some cases with hundreds of miles of
frontiers contiguous to those of other great military
powers. In America its Canadian border is also
the U.S. border for about 1000 miles; in Asia
the Indian border will soon be within striking
distance of the Russian camps ; in Africa, it bumps
against French, German, Portuguese, and other terri-
tories. With a total force of between 70,000 and 100,000
men the possibly greatest living British generals
find the South African nut so hard to crack that more
army corps are to be dispatched from Britain to assist in
the ‘contract. South Africa is a country of vast dis-
tances (most parts of the British Empire are countries of
vast distances), and it is to all intents and purposes a
hostile country, with the extra disadvantage that the
troops in their present locations may not destroy pro-
perty, as it is nominally British. Wherever the Boer
pony has set his hoof the bridges have been destroyed
and the railways torn up. The Boer always chooses his
ground and awaits the British onset on ridges and behind
kopjes which can only be finally taken by rushes of men.
In these rushes of men the stormers always lose heavily,
and when they are almost taken, the Boer rises up
hastily and quite fresh, and retreats to the next ridge or
kopje, which has to be taken in the same manner at the
same cost of life. And the British are getting sick of it.
They want more men. The days of small armies have
gone by. The force that can be surrounded is doomed.
The little army corps of 15,000 men, so beloved of British
commanders, is a thing of the past. Safety is absolutely
a matter of numbers. So, when the weary Titan has
accomplished his South African contract and named his
sovereign lady Empress of Africa, it is time for him to
pack up his warlike gear, buy some cradles, and settle
down to breed hard, for Mars has been dethroned,
and the new god of war is the small damp baby.
The only way to secure South Africa for the British
Empire is to have an overwhelming British popu-
lation, agricultural as well as professional and shopkeep-
ing, side by side with that of the Dutch. The Gape
Colony volunteers who are serving with the British to-day
are mostly the descendants of 2000 British families sent
out to Algoa Bay nearly 70 years ago by the British to
guard the frontiers of the colony against the Kaffirs. It
cost the Government of the day about £50,000, but it was
one of the best investments the British Government ever
made. And if the sub-continent is to remain British the
Government will have to do something of the sort to-day.
The Boer is, in some things, a most ignorant hog, but if
the British Empire were to take a leaf out of his book it
might do wisely. When the Boers conquered the Trans-
vaal they divided it into so many farms. As far as this
writer can discover it was an understood thing that every
male Boer, by virtue of his Boerdom, was entitled to a
farm. If there was not enough land in the State to give
him one the State very properly went out and stole some
under arms, and handed the farm over with a lordly grace
that would have done credit to a Roman Emperor.
There is no need for the British Empire to go out and
steal any more to give every man in its population who
really needs it a farm. There is room within the Empire
and to spare, and the sooner the whole show is
turned into a co-operative settlement the better.
Whenever Russia has annexed new population it has
been population which she could assimilate and
Russianise. Whenever Britain has annexed new
peoples, except in Canada and Cape Colony,
they were niggers or yellow men with whom her people
cannot mix without degenerating, and to whom educa-
tion means simply the discovery that they are an inferior
race. A discovery like that is never calculated to make
the black and yellow man friendly to the Britisher, and
in all probability some day the British will have to fight
their colored fellow-subjects or lose them. When people
go on to the frontiers and settle down to work in the
open air they breed splendidly. The man from the farm
has always made the best soldier. The Roman legionary
who wiped the floor with the earth was a peasant farmer.
The English who overran France were tillers of the soil,
and when they were killed off the English empire in
France crumpled up. The Spanish soldier who was once
the terror of Europe was a hard working individual from
the Iberian vineyards. The Ironsides of Cromwell were
farmers, and the Britishers who played the deuce and
broke things during the Napoleonic wars were farm-
hands and crofters. The victorious German armies of
1870 were drawn from an agricultural population, and
France in her hour of agony built up huge armies in a
day from the peasant farmers. And so on right down the
list. Therefore, I advise the alleged weary Titan to have
a spell, and turn his quick-firers into go-carts, and fill up
his frontier districts with a hard}', healthy agricultural
population, and breed as hard as possible, and when the
great day of Armageddon comes he may triumph by
sheer weight of babies.
The War Bill.
The Australian producers begin to pay the
price of the false-loyalty boom straight away.
N.S.W. charges much of the bill indirectly to
loan account, and so passes the burden on,
though there is a call for the interest year by
year. South Australia, however, is apparently
going to struggle to pay most of its share from
current revenue ; but as that is only barely
enough for peaceful requirements, and the death
of one moderately well-to-do farmer more or
less means to Treasurer Holder a surplus or a
deficit, Ministers have already looked round
for something or somebody to squeeze. Fif-
teen months ago it was proposed to charge
Is. 6d. per ton more for carrying Broken
Hill ores over S.A. lines : but Parliament
twice jumped on the proposal—first when
it was introduced, and again a few weeks
ago. The case is quite simple. The Govern-
ment makes a fair profit on the Barrier
line—enough, anyhow, to make ud for the big
losses on some other lines. Still, some Broken
Hill ores could stand more freight; the richest
could, in fact, stand five times more. But
there are, on the other hand, tens of thousands
of tons of low grade ore which barely pays ex-
penses—said expenses amounting to about 355.
per ton. An extra shilling turns this ore into
mullock ; it is left in the mines, and, of course,
the 355. per ton is not distributed (labor usually
gets four-fifths of it). The S.A. Parliament,
therefore, threw out the proposal because its
adoption would render tens of thousands of tons
of ore unprofitable, and would thus reduce the
life of the province’s best customer ; besides it
saw that sooner or later the province gets most of
the3ss. perton, beforementioned,becauseS. Aus.
supplies Broken Hill with most of its pro-
visions, and does most of its carrying and
smelting. Therefore the proposal amounted to
S.A., in its great need for 2d., paying 6d. for it.
No sooner, however, had the Parliament, which
twice refused to sanction the increase, gone into
recess than Harassed Holder, wanting money
to shoot his brother Methodist in the Transvaal,
issued a bylaw raising freights 9d. per ton.
Give us pence in our time, O Lord —and hang
the future ! So the Broken Hill co’s will
be forced to leave untouched thousands of
ore which they have hitherto been able to
handle, to the ultimate loss of scores of thou-
sands of pounds sterling to the country. And
this is the first effect of the fever in only one
little section of the continent; all the others
will pay, sooner or later, and more or less.
-
The Moan of Old Groperdom.
Westralian departmental officials are appar-
ently instructed, whenever possible, to drag
disparaging remarks about Federation into
their reports, and explain that the unusual
drought, or the prevalence of dingoes, or the
great increase of dogs under the bed, is doubt-
less owing to its near approach—people realise
that their country is lost and are too dejected
to put the dog out as before. This, from the
Department of Agriculture, is very fine :
The department responded to a very larjje number of
enquiries on dairying- matters duriner the half-year, but
so far there is no indication of the establishment of
another factory. lam inclined to think that the unwel-
come prospect of Federation is keeping these and kindred
industries back, but I hope that the tour of the colony by
the dairy expert with the travelling- dairy plant will cause
a revival, and that it will not be long before we hear of a
movement in the direction of the establishment of
another factory.
Ihings are getting no worse, you see, than
before the disastrous prospect came in view,
but even the fact that theyare remaining as they
were shows that Federation is bad. Of course,
if butter factories were increasing that would
also show that Federation is bad ; it would be
explained that when the industry was growing
so fast under provincialism it was obvious that
provincialism was a good thing and not to be
lightly disturbed. It is a weird fact that
even the failure of the Sandgroper butter in-
dustry under provincialism can be claimed as
showing that provincialism is a most excellent
arrangement. Or, put it this way for short:
(1) If a thing fails now under provincialism it is wholly
owing to the prospect of Federation.
(2) If a thing succeeds now under provincialism its
success is owing to the presence of provincialism— not
to the prospect of Federation.
(3) If a, thing has always been a failure under provin-
cialism, that shows it is kept back by the prospect of
federation ; after failing for many years under pro-
vincialism it was just going to start prospering under
la 1 ? m on '-'" Federal prospect prevented it.
. W “ an industry, after long failure under provincial-
ism, starts to boom now that Federation is in prospect,
that shows that the initial difficulties have at last been
overcome, and if the nefarious Federal idea is only
abandoned and things left as they are, there are good
times ahead.
(5) If an industry is going down, it is the prospect of
Federation that, is killing it.
an industry remains exactly as it was all along
that shows that it is the near approach of a disastrous
r ederation that makes it remain as it was all along.
In fact, whether a thing happens suddenly, or
stops happening suddenly, or just keeps hap-
pening monotonously, it all shows that Federa-
tion means ruin.
A Drapery Swindle.
“ Malle ” : In many Sydney shops, employes,
whose nominal wages are only a few shillings a
week, have even that pittance reduced, some-
times by as much as one-half, through fines
inflicted under all kinds of pretences. Crimes
include failing to make sales a certain number
of times to the impossible women who never
intended to buy anything, being a minute late,
sitting down, lack of promptitude, or w T earing
an expression which the floor-nobleman thinks
isn’t the sort of expression they should wear,
even though it may be the only expression they
have ; also answering the nobleman back ; like-
wise being sulky and not answering him back.
The Bulletin has a vague idea that both fine
and imprisonment are the prerogatives of
magistrates and judges—not of floor-walkers or
any other kind of draper ; and that it is just as
illegal for the latter to fine a miserable girl-
employ4 Is. as to sentence her to seven days
imprisonment in the cellar. In theory it is a mere
matter of agreement; the assistant, w’hen en-
gaged, becomes subject to the rules of the estab-
lishment and they provide for fines for a large
number of offences—also, they make the man who
profits by the fines sole judge and jury to decide
when these offences are committed. Yet if the
rules specified, instead of fines, imprisonment
in the shop’s private black-hole, chains, or
caning, the law would fall on that drapery
fiend promptly. No matter though a girl-em-
ploye fully agreed to be bound by rules which
gave her boss power to lock her up or cane her
for specified offences, the law would regard the
one as illegal detention and the other as assault.
And when the law gets its second wind it will
decide in like manner that the fining process is
plain embezzlement. In fact, if the matter
were properly placed before it, it would pro-
bably come to that decision now without wait-
ing for any more wind than it has got.
Governor Brassey is going to make his exit
from Melbourne city at “the head (not the tail)
of the second Victorian Contingent. The
association of Brassey with the young man
who has undertaken to shoot for the integrity
of the bulging British Empire, and uphold the
value of his stake in the dear old country, will
be fittingly terminated when the procession has
passed over Queen’s Bridge. His Excellency
(salute !) will then break away in the direction
of Port Melbourne Town Pier, with certain
yachting vanities in view, whilst the more
interesting “loyalists” march to the Railway
Pier. The arrangement, needless to say, is in-
tended to give an air of popularity to Brassey’s
vice-regal person on this noisy occasion. Mon-
day’s newspaper reports will place a liberal
percentage of the cheering to the Governor’s
credit; also, it will be faintly suggested that a
few of the tears of the Contingent’s troubled
mothers, sisters and best girls were really shed
for Baron B. aforesaid. Hence The Bulletin’s
timely assertion that Nobody, in a general way
of speaking, will raise a tear or a cheer for the
departing Governor of Vic. on Saturday next.
The fact that he will depart on the 13th inst.
may be said to shatter an ancient superstition
re the unluckiness of number thirteen. As
a speechmaker, a social entertainer, a figure-
head and a shining light Governor
Brassey has proved himself a failure. Some
of the irritating tactics charged against
the rubicund old gentleman may have been due
to the mental feebleness of his official flunkeys, '
but, anyway, it should be the first care of any
Vice-regal sojourner to see that his flunkeys
are of fair average intelligence. As regards
the notorious cheapness of Brassey’s hospi-
tality, The Bulletin finds no fault with his
Lordship. In so ordering his wines and light
refreshments that a number of “representa-
tive ” guzzlers lost all enthusiasm for Govern-
ment House tickets, Brassey was doing an un-
intentional service to the Democratic cause.
But he served no good purpose by invariably
being behind time at functions where the
grovelsome authorities always awaited his
arrival.
One of the many Federation difficulties in
Westralia is the Forrest Government’s de-
mand that the mail-steamers, which already
call at the Westralian port of Albany, will go
many miles out of their way to call at Fre-
mantle instead. This will mean a delay of at
least 12 hours, and that 12 hours later arrival
and 12 hours earlier departure will mean that
merchants in N.S.W., Victoria, Queensland,
and Tasmania will be a whole week
behind in their correspondence. W.A. pays
one-tenth of the mail subsidy, and already has
an advantage over the other provinces inas-
much as it gets the first delivery of letters.
But unless the steamers come right to the back-
door of Perth so as to bring thither the trade
that now goes to Albany, the Forrest crowd
won’t be satisfied. The possible end of it all
may be that the eastern provinces will
arrange for an accelerated mail service
which will leave Westralia out altogether,
and unfederated Westralia will have to nego-
tiate a service of its own. Forrest’s Govern-
ment has still another grievance in its post
and telegraph department. In the scheme for
a cable from South Africa to Australia the
cable co. proposed to bring the new line ashore
at Albany (W. A.), but the Bigjoiin Government
demands that it also shall come direct to Perth.
Big John’s idea is that everything, barring the
plague and the bailiff’, should come ashore at
Perth, so as to bring all the trade to the place
where brother Alice: and bear-leader Hackett
have so much property.
The usual happy-go-lucky, let-it-rip style of
doing things was, the other day, responsible for
another man’s death in Melbourne. The de-
ceased had been carrying goods aboard the
Ouraka when he slipped from the gangway,
missed the protecting net, and was drowned.
It was shown in evidence that the gangway had
only one protecting rail, whereas the Act
requires two, and the timorous coroner had a
fine opportunity to show his strength and use-
fulness by summoning before him the respon-
sible person and inviting him to explain his
delinquency. But he carefully avoided the
chance, and urged that the occurrence was
purely accidental. Verdict of accidental death
accordingly. So the process of losing men’s
lives and saving a two-shilling rope will pre-
sumably go on as usual.
4.
Launceston (Tas.) Examiner utters a truth
which this paper has been hammering at for
years:—
Has the present generation a right to pay for what it
uses up or not ? Let us take an ordinary timber bridge,
the life of which is from 30 to 40 years. Suppose the
policy is followed of charging renewals or repairs to loans
for a few generations, what will then be the position?
Will it not be that those who are then living will be
debited with the cost of, it may be, half-a-dozen bridges,
when in reality they have one only ? Those who have
preceded them will have used the previous structures, and
will have thrown the cost of them all on posterity. We are
told that posterity should be satisfied, as it will have as
an asset a well-developed country. This is true, but if
that country is mortgaged up to the hilt, then those who
come after will have reasonable cause to complain. There
is but one proper financial course to pursue, namely, that
followed by every sound and well-conducted business
firm. If we turn to their balance-sheets we find that
every year there is a writing-down of the value of pro-
perties in use and an allowance made for wear and tear.
Any repairs that are found necessary are paid out of the
earnings of the year. So it should be with regard to our
national affairs. What are roads and bridges but the
means by which we carry on our national business?
And as such they should be kept in repair as we go along.
If we use up a bridge or wear out a road we have a right
to replace the one and mend the other. The fact that
these works are not revenue-earning has nothing to do
with the matter; but if it had, it does but furnish an
additional reason why they should be kept in repair out
of revenue. The earning capacity of our railways may,
and doubtless will, increase as time goes on, but the same
cannot be said of our roads and bridges. They have no
earning capacity except so far as they are of use to the
generation of the day. Let it be assumed, for the sake
of argument, that it is sound finance to charge repairs
and renewals to loans, then why raise or levy any rates.
Why not charge the whole to loans ? It would cer-
tainly be an easy way of getting over our difficulties. We
could dispense with the rate collector altogether, and
local bodies would have an easy time of it. The fact that
the interest bill would be increasing need not bother us
in the least, as it would be an easy matter to raise more
money by way of loans to meet every item.
4.
Westralian Premier Forrest has come over
to the East to negotiate with the benighted
Premiers on this side, aud persuade them to
accept the W.A. committee’s proposed amend-
ments on the Federal Constitution. Forrest
says (in a S.M. Herald interview published
last Monday) that—
Unless some means are devised by which the amend-
merits required by the Legislature of Western Australia
can be given consideration to, it will not be possible for
that province to enter the Federation as an original
State.
It would be interesting to know what Forrest
thinks he is thinking about. The Westralian
Assembly voted that both Bills—the existing
one and the proposed Bill with the amendments
alluded to above—should be submitted to the
people, therefore it didn’t say that it “re-
quired ” the said, amendments. It left the
matter to the people. The Westralian Council,
after a series of confused votes, refused to have
anything to do with either Bill. So far from
declaring that Bigjohn’s amendments were
“required” it refused even to listen to
a proposal that they should be laid
before the other provinces for their assent
—which presumably means that even if the
eastern provinces accept them the W.A.
Council won’t. The W.A. people haven’t said
the amendments were required—they haven’t
been consulted. The amendments which For-
rest says are required to ensure Westralia’s
adherence to the Commonwealth haven’t been
definitely accepted by any authority in Wes-
tralia, and J ohn is a delusive person without
any credentials.
Sample of alleged Australian sentiment fired
off at a Tas. Patriotic Fund meeting, the other
night, by a leading official of the local branch
of the A.N.A. :
All money subscribed in Tasmania should be sent to
England, to be distributed through the Mansion House
Fund. I recognise, as every Australian roust recognise,
that in this war England is fighting Australia’s battles
(applause), and should have full control of all our men
and money. (Cheers.) Another reason, your Excellency
(Gormanston was in the chair, and had treated
the audience to the funniest history of South
Africa ever imagined by even the most frantic
lunatic of all the jingoes) another reason why
the money subscribed for the relief of the families of
our troops should go to the Mansion House Fund, is that
Tasmania is such a small place.and so poor, that in all
probability the beneficiaries will receive more from the
Mansion House Fund than if Tasmanian contributions
were kept for Tasmanian sufferers ! (Prolonged cheers).
Old Adye Douglas was the only speaker who
opposed the proposition, but it evidently re-
quired a younger and more vigorous republican
than old Adye to stem the sheep-like rush of
the Natives after the jingoistic bell-wether of
Imperialism. And the money goes to England.
What share of it will come back to the
one-legged Tasmanian will be seen by-and-bye-


The Equitable [ife flssuranee Society
OF THE XT<S.
FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT Ist JANUARY, 1900.
(Preliminary Statement as conveyed by Cable):
Assurance in force
Increase during 1899
Assets
Increase during 1899
Surplus
Increase during 1899
The New Business of 1899 exceeded that of the previous year by
oyer £6,500,000.
The business of the Society is conducted upon the Mutual plan ;
all Surplus belongs to the Policy-holders.
Local Directors :
(With power to issue Policies and pay Claims)
WILLTAM McMILLAN, Esq. (Chairman). Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.
General Manager for Australasia: C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY-IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.B.W. and Queensland,
£218,750,000
13,092,264
£58,333,333
4,506,396
£12,916,666
997,814
The Clyde Engineering Co. Ctd.
MANUFACTURERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF HORIZONTAL AND TRACTION
ENGINES
For WINDING, HAULAGE, &c., from 2-h.p. to 1000-h.p.
itn
■ \*v ‘ ,v.
%' ajlfl $&? -*
• - *m . *<**.? _ ...
■ '.. V
•-,■>• V/V
„-•.■•*■ •V-j
' « .T W.
r* ■*K* u “ ’ , -r.'
./• V U? 4\■
srrr3r,> ■■■ ''v'; V-
• $ X —■ 1; ■ '•'' ■'■■ .'■',
1/ P~~-' .> )■ y. ■-*’> f* ■'
* '•■• *_■*•■ ■•; .. ; ■
j ' til .ifAd ! ■-: *!>&•»»»••
nr-p^gi*
-V' t*3g-vA
• H.
18 I
>A, Wt V A 1 “r ’
T~ «v. I SI
- -.-; ;..rj
i
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WF.EK.
Hrk a a.iksty’s “ Kittle Red Ruling Hood."
Royal “Teas of the D'L'Hiervilles."
Lyceum “ The Power an<l the Glory.”
Criterion “ David Garrick."
Palace Riekarda’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WF.EK.
Theatre Royal “ Little Christopher Columhu*.”
Alexandra “ Les Cloches de Corueville."
Bijou Rickards' Variety Co.
“David Garrick” appeared at the Criterion
last Saturday for a six nights’ season. This play is
always a favorite —probably because the moral is so
totally and sinfully wrong. A respectable aider-
man’s daughter falls in love with actor Garrick be-
cause he impersonates Hamlet well, whereupon the
old man is unspeakably shocked. These were the
days when it was considered rather frivolous to
read Shakespeare ; nowadays the girl who studies
Hamlet is a serious and weighty personage of
enormous soul-tonnage. What old Ingot would
have done if Ada had been a modern girl
and had become enamored of a frivolous
mummer’s legs is past all saying; anyway,
he is much put out, and agrees gladly
when said mummer kindly offers to seem so drunk
and objectionable that Ada will shun him and
Shakespeare thereafter, and rush gladly to the
embrace of the other young man, who is really
drunk. Why public opinion has never risen up
against that parent will perhaps be made clear in
the Hereafter. Some odium is likewise due to
David Garrick, the pure, unselfish hero who com-
mands his best girl to take the other beery fellow,
in order that her father may shed tears of joy on
her head, and her future children may respect her
for giving them a parent who comes home drunk
every night. And when one reflects that she
would have taken the other fellow, if the old man
had not happened to listen at the door, the moral
of a play which goes askew if someone doesn’t
listen at the door calls loudly for disapproval.
This paper would have some admiration for the
virtuous mummer if it could think that he heard
the old man coming, and gave his moral lesson
accordingly ; but as it is, it badly wants to know
the 18th-century word for Dog, that it may call
David that, and be at peace.
* ste * *
The audience which had fled from the
Transvaal drama rushed back when it heard that
Walter Bentley had been specially engaged
to perform this atrocious libel on a fellow mummer
who cannot resent the indignity for reasons that
are obvious. Walter does the libel in the same
graceful manner as of yore, so that one does not
observe what a prig he is till the curtain
is down, which is Art. Miss Dunckley is not
equally convincing as the girl who wanders round
with the large red Shakespeare under her arm.
The soulful eyes of by-gone Lilian Wheeler are
badly wanted, as necessary appurtenances to the
type of girl who falls in love without knowing
about the settlements. Miss Dunckley gives an
impression of too much sense altogether, and when
Bentley is advising her how to bring up her
children—the other fellow’s children—the chil-
dren of the drunk young man who lives in an
atmosphere of stable and dog—one momen-
tarily expects her to get up and toll him
not to be a silly ox. The hat which she
wears in the last act quite explains Garrick s noble
unselfishness in giving her to the other man.
Harry Diver, in a wig like a snowed-upon hay-
stack, takes the part of the young man who is
really drunk, and except for the fact that his legs
are much drunker than his voice, would impress
the audience very favourably—if one could forget
his splendid acting in, say, “The Ilesh and the
Devil.” The fact that he acted so magnificently
in “The Flesh and the Devil” is going to be a
curse to Diver for many days to come. Sweeney,
as the respectable alderman with the curious taste
in sons-in-law, rises to the occasion in the first act.
The dinner-party somehow leaves an impression
that someone has forgotten his part, or that an
important character is detained behind the scenes
—but that is a mere trifle.
*** * ,
That weary Kipling song, about the mendi-
cant whose intellect was away, now rings out
nightly at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. Miss Dorothy
Vane sings it, and The Bulletin representative
listens to it occasionally, and feels that he takes
the prize for patience, with «Tob ten lengths behind
and breaking down rapidly. Why this poetic gem
should be hung so persistently at night on. the
wreck of the public intellect it is difficult
to say. Still, the pantomime is the only
show that is doing very large business jusc
now in Sydney. Possibly the melody about
the pauper who went away leaving his brain
behind him on the towel-rail really attracts
the public. Possibly the public forgives the song
for the sake of Dorothy Vane’s bright young face
and fresh young voice. Perhaps the pictorial
glories of the pantomime, which are many and
glorious, are sufficient to keep things going de-
spite the drawback of the Beggar. These things
arc mercifully concealed from us. All the people
herein commended last week have earned further
approbation in the interval, especially Miss Came
Moore, whose loveliness in the brown uniform is
beyond all question. At the same time Carrie
and her troops don’t seem to capture Kruger’s
castle after all. They are left pounding on the
door of that tower when the curtain comes down.
* * * *
“ The Only Way,” at Sydney Royal, ought
to be renamed “The Only Play,” because it is
about the oidy theatrical production at present in
Sydney which does not say anything about the
dreadful subject of the contingent. The manage-
ment probably refrained lest the audience might
think it an anachronism. The play is noticeable
for a kind of mystic glooin which envelopes the
characters from the very beginning. Everyone
feels something dreadful is going to happeu even
before there is any decided news on the subject.
There is a lost, doomed look about Carton’s hair ;
it is long and clan.iny, like hair whose natural
place is the grave. The pathos of Sydney
Carton’s sacrifice really lies to a great extent
in the fact that he has been such a bad lot
during the earlier period of his existence. If
he had been a good young man all that time,
and gone to church regularly, and given up his
cricket subscription to the poor, no one would
have thought half so much of his noble conduct in
taking the place on the guillotine of the other
man with the similar hair. The reason is simple
enough. Carton’s conduct is a compliment to
every hard-drinker in the audience. It makes
him feel that the road to heroism is lined with
beer and snakes, and that he is a noble character
just like Carton because he drinks like him, and
that if he continues drinking he may soar to in-
credible heights of glory.
• * • •
All the same “ The Only Way ” hasn’t
been a great success. It will cease happening
before thin houses this week. “Tess of the
D’Urbervilles ” is announced for Saturday. Mr.
Tyrone Power and Miss Edith Crane (the lady
whose bare feet left an imprint on this country’s
memory in “Trilby”) are the principals in the new
drama.
* m * *
The spangled-white child who appears in
the stage clouds, and looks like nothing hut an
old-fashioned Christmas card, still strikes terror
into the beer-sodden soul of the villain at Sydney
Lyceum. “The Power and the Glory” is a re-
freshingly immoral play. The virtuous heroine,
who won't be anything but legally married to the
aristocrat, is thereupon robbed of her child and
repudiated by her husband, and gaoled, and tied
up, and nearly thrown off a monument. And
when her persecutor is shot, she merely re-marries
into her own class, and probably takes in washing,
and doesn’t seem likely to have any better time
than she had before. The wicked adventuress, who
also returns to lowly life as a panto, girl, has at least
the satisfaction of remembering that she had a good
time while it lasted, but with the good woman
times are sometimes bad and mostly worse. When
a law can be passed depriving criminals of the
good times they have had, the tide of morality
may go up. The conduct of the blind child is
inexplicable even before she gets among the span-
gled clouds, because it is a scientific fact that
when a blind person regains the sight he has
never possessed, he has no knowledge of perspec-
tive whatever, and frequently knocks people
down because he thinks they are still half-a-inile
off, and likewise he may be seen cautiously
refraining from upsetting mountains that are
some dozen miles distant. Consequently when
Linda picks out her friends without once
banging her small nose against them, she perforins
a scientific miracle. These remarks are not in-
tended to detract in any way from the pictorial
magnificence of the “Power and the Glory.” As
a spectacle its glory is beyond all question and
almost beyond all record.
* * * *
At Sydney Palace there is a young man
named Daly with a fine baritone voice which lie
doesn’t know how to use. Also, he is not quite
sure what bis hands are for —still, with that voice
he should have a good future before him if he can
get under a good hard master. The most painful
circumstance is a man with a black face billed as
Wal. Cottier. There is quite an outbreak of
dancing by Miss Sinclair, Fanny Powers, the
Smith Sisters, the Newsky Family, the Marion-
ettes, Miss Taylor, and the Bell Ballet. The
Marionettes command great applause, especially
the two goblins that dance in the graveyard, a
Chinese juggler who gets fearfully and wonder-
fully mixed up, and the ancient clown who is
bombarded with old cases and kerosene - tins
and comes up with the cheerful remark, “ And
he never hit me ! ” after each avalanche. The
skeleton that is rapidly dying of that tired feeling
till a gun-shot fills him with fresh energy, and
causes him to indulge in grotesque dances all in
one piece, instead of separating as he did when he
was too tired to dance all at once and had to do
it in sections, is funny. The Newskys break out
in several new places. Their dancing is original,
while their songs seem to be mostly something
about “-ski” and are solemn and reminiscent
of the name Archangel.
* * * *
The severity of the midsummer weather
in Melbourne last week kept many people from
going to the Royal to get hotter, but “ Little
Christopher Columbus ” maintained a good
average prosperity ail the same. A rise in the
temperature makes no difference to the music,
color, and personal character of this burlesque-
opera, although it is very trying to the poor little
jokes and puns. The dialogue seemed limp and
despondent last week, especially in the second
act, where streaks of conversation serve to
fill the crevices in an oriental variety
show which is said to be happening close to
the Chicago Exhibition. When the thermometer
registers !)5 in the shade, or thereabouts, the
humor of that second act ought not to be ex-
pected to raise a laugh. The constant strain of
pretending to be cool and festive under adverse
conditions has not visibly affected Little Chris-
topher. Also, Mrs. Block and Guinevere ; like-
wise Silas, l’epita, Don Juan, Captain Slammer,
daughter Hannah, and the ballet appear much
the same as usual, but O’Hooligan’s understand-
ings threaten to melt into nothingness. They are
now so thin that he looks as though his life were
hanging on to a couple of threads.
** * *
At the Alexandra, which claims to be
Melbourne’s coolest theatre, despite the warm
odours of steak and onions that float into the
auditorium from the surrounding district when
supper-time draws near—at the appetising Alex-
andra, be it known, the Vic. Op. Soc. is continu-
ing its smooth, respectable performance of “ Les
Cloches ” for a third week. The tuneful Markee
has improved somewhat in his method of paying
addresses to Germaine, and Germaine, who was
quite satisfactory when Miss Ray Jones played
her, is just as pleasing in the form of Miss Boanas,
a handsome damsel with a round soprano warble.
The Serpolette (Miss Kate Hardiman) has gone
from good to better, as amateurs go, neither have
certain other people taken a turn for the worse.
A few wicked comments on the tenor’s stage
figure are cancelled herewith out of respect for
the chorus and orchestra. The little season at the
Haleck will terminate in a burst of floral tributes
next Saturday (13th), The Bulletin supposes.
* * * *■
At tho Bijou, an evenly balanced pro-
gramme fills the perennial want. In the natural
course of business the Rickards show will lash
itself into a patriotic fury next Saturday, on
which occasion Melbourne will get drunk again—
probably drunker than when the first contingent
went away. The sanguine agitator who snorted
“To tl—l with Kruger and the Boers,” two
months ago, is no longer available, but
the supply of war songsters is practically
unlimited, and the local hotel resources are inex-
haustible, therefore another great night at the
Bijou seems certain to ensue. Opinions may
differ on the Boer question, but if it comes down
to Beer the present writer feels no compunction
about swilling Long Life to as many Contingents
as anybody likes to suggest.
At Poverty Point.
Demise by Fire, Ballarat Theatre Royal. Foundation
laid by O. V. Brooke, in 1858, with Coppin as fugleman.
Magnificent orations about the great step in advance thus
taken by the noble legitimate drama. Ballarat even
then had had three theatres, the Montezuma, Napier,
and Tontine. Hoskins was the manager most identified
with the Royal, where he did five Shakesperian produc-
tions, such as the “Tempest.” Nevertheless, the house
came down to a drapery shop, and has been devoted to
vulgar trade for 27 years. " Similar-wise, the Geelong
Theatre Royal became first a brewery, then the Salva-
tion Army Barracks. And the Melb. Queen’s turned to a
coach factory. The foundations of a drapery shop, in
Smith-street, Collingwood, were laid for a theatre.
“ llaresfoot: The just burnt Ballarat Theatre Royal
had an unlucky thirteen years of Thespian existence.
Its moving spirit was Maxwell Brown, who, after dwel-
ling at Poverty Point, made a pile out of lucky Ballarat
mines. Of course there was naught for him to do but
regenerate the drama. The Royal saw everything that
was tip-top, ranging through Brooke, Sullivan, Dillon,
Jefferson, Mr. and Mrs. C. lvean, Celeste, Montgomery,
Lyster’s Grand Operas, and landing poor, kindly, plain-
tive Max in the slough where he started. Then he tried
conjuring, introduced the basket trick, and took to other
precarious devices. Max wrote one remarkably good
drama, “The Will and the Way.” It was an incessant
favorite in the goldfield days of Kate O’Reilly and Kate
Warde.
A Sydney Criterion advt. recently announced “ ‘ A Tale
of the Transvaal,’founded on that famous novel ‘Jess,’
depicting thrilling and realistic events now taking place
in the Transvaal.” “Jess ” was written many years ago,
before the present war was thought of. The man that
would disguise Haggard’s fine story by bringing 10
Australians to the rescue of the British Empire, and
advertise that pathetic work as depicting the events of
the present campaign, would describe the Deluge as a
thrilling episode during the recent wet weather.
Sydney Star : “The civic concerts begin to-night, pre-
sumably at the Town Hall. The ad. does not state where
they take place,Which proves the wisdom of our conten-
tion that these concerts should be under experienced
management.” As the ad. in the same issue had Town
Hall in large type, it looks as though it is the snorty little
Star which should be under “ experienced management.”
Tommy Atkins keeps up his reputation as an Absent-
Minded Beggar wherever he goes. At the civic concert,
most of him when he went away left his greatcoat on the
seat behind him.
“ D.”: Maud M‘Carthy, who is to fiddle at the concert in
aid of the Factory Girls’Club, is very much of a girl herself.
In the intervals of concert work Miss Maud rusticates at
Coogee, and romps on the beach with the youngest, and
even (in strict confidence) climbs trees. Coogee, by the
way, always a favorite spot with theatricals, still mourns
the beauteous Carne, who returned per tram after the
performance with closed eyes, thus affording infatuated
damsels an opportunity of gazing their fill on his classic
countenance.
“M‘G.”: The real name of actor Gladstone, who was
buried in Melbourne last week, was Jupp. The stage
title had become so strongly associated with the family,
however, that the heir, Rev. Gladstone, the anti-dancing
parson of Nathalia, has retained it. Tet Jupp would
sound well enough for clerical purposes.
The late Edward Gladstone was an actor of uncertain
age apparently, for, whereas the books of the Old Actors’
Fund made hint out to be an octogenarian, an obituary
advt. in Melb. Auk set him down as a comparative youth
Of 72. The best work be did within the past many yea'.s
was undoubtedly his “ loyal tenant” sketch in “ Little
Lord Kauntleroy." liis lust performance on any stage
was that of the steward in “Under the Red Rohe.'”
Truth to tell, the veteran wasn’t nearly strong enough
for the part. Poor old Gladdy had been dying by inches
for a fortnight, and his family, including the Dancing
Parson of Nathalia, were able to rally round him at the
finish.
Extracts from a London newspaper criticism of a new
war drummer, entitled “ The Absent-Minded Beggar.”
“ Gilbert liay comes galloping into the camp at Glencoe,
having ridden with despatches from General Yule to
Ladysmith, and having returned amidst a terrific
thunderstorm. Hay detects the features of Van Buren,
now a Boer spy, in a pseudo Bril ish officer, the Africander
having donned the garb of a slain English captain, and
having tried to frighten Kathleen from exposing him by
threatening to have her child at Durban killed. ... A
rascally, braggart Boer, named Peter Hoch, intends to
despoil his friend, Van Buren, of the expected fair booty,
Kathleen. Hoch commands a party of Boers who attack
the fugitive women and chtllren under the strangely
inadequate escort of three raw recruits from London.
... At the beginning of Act 4, Van Buren, sentenced to
be shot as a spy, is allowed to have a farewell interview
with his mother at her house at Ladysmith. Disregarding
his pledge to make no attempt to escape, the villain robs
his mother, half murders her, and would have got clear
away had he not been shot dead by the watching Kaffir
whom he had formerly ill-treated. ... A change takes
us to the enemy's position on the heights which are being
stormed by the English. This scene should he worked
more slowly, and thus greater effect would be given to
the treacherous use of the white Jlag by the Boers to pro-
cure the temporary cessation of firing. The Boers use
their quick-firing gun vigorously during the brief respite
thus afforded them, but their treachery was of no avail,
for the heights are carried in most splendid fashion.”
The one thing wanting to improve the educational influ-
ence of this great Imperialistic work is a scene depicting
a Boer Cannibal Feast, with President Kruger in the
chair. There are many British playgoers who would be
quite prepared to learn that the Boers conceal the num-
ber of their losses in battle by eating their dead.
Leslie Stuart, the author of “ Soldiers of the Queen,”
is raking in the profits on a sale of 12,0u0 weekly. W hen
he first wrote the ever-present song it was a hitter satire ;
and, published in the Artist 8 Model, it fell flat, lu those
days the first verse ran :
When war's rumors suddenly begin.
Our chests expand with mighty swell;
We’ve no dread for sound of battle's din,
The gatling gun, the shot and shell.
Enemies are quaking, we’ve declared to fight,
The British lion’s mouth shows foam ;
We don’t fear them,
For we're not near them,
But we can read about it here at home.
Stuart was out for dollars and, finding that the public
would not even nibble at the satire, he prompt Jy with-
drew it, and re-wrote it in its present form, and tried it on
the dog once more. The dog fairly flew at it, and has
been absorbing it as fast as possible ever since.
He Sinclair’s burlesque Cinquevalli act in “ Little Chris-
topher Columbus.” Not many are aware that Sinclair is
himself au expert juggler, having put in two years in
that line in English music-halls.
Some years ago, when Snazelle was touring South
Africa with his “ Music, Song and Story ” show, he was at
the Standard Theatre, Johannesburg, and one night he
treated a dense audience of Boers and Uitlanders to views
of the “ Passion Play." When the great picture of Christ
was thrown on the canvas, the Burghers gazed silently at
the marred visage and the crown of thorns, and then a
murmur went round the house, and immediately the
Boers commenced to discuss the accuracy or otherwise of
the picture. The argument ended with a cry of rage
from one old Boer : “Can’t be—where’s his pipe?”
Adelaide University, which was the first in Australia to
establish a Chair of Music, has now seven graduates in
that, art—four ladies and three of the other sort. One of
the last couple to qualify is Judge Burnley’s only daugh-
ter ; the other is the daughter of the local Commissioner
of Audit, Ebenezer Cooke.
Now the Melb. Princess’s is shut, old pro.*B want to
know what the peacocks painted near the Proscenium had
to do with it. Said fowl is supposed to be unlucky in a
theatre.
Most Australians still remember Ada Ward, who left
the stage and put on the glaring red jersey of the Sal.
Army. Scoffers maintained at the time that her conver-
sion was conveniently postponed till her best days were
over, and the takings were falling off lamentably before
she saw the evil of her ways - but that is an irrelevance.
Poor Ada, it seems, didn’t find peace leaping in the mud
behind the drum and the tambourine, bo she quitted the
poke-bonnet crowd and joined the Church Army. And
she didn't find peace there either, so the other day the
willowy figure which used to delight this country was
publicly dipped in cold water, and Ada Ward is tempor-
arily resting in the bosom of the Baptist sect.
“Compton” : Went to hear Maud M’Carthy’slast Syd-
ney recital, and was artistically disappointed. A great
audience, and plenty of real enthusiasm. Rut Maudie
left me cold. A tip for the Sydney music critic, which
has never, in a fairly-prolonged concert experience,
failed me yet. When you are coming away think of
gyges—do you rememher him or don’t you ? Sykes is so
good that if the star is good enough to eclipse him in
your general recollection of the evening, that star is a
genius. If she isn’t, she may have all the minor things
—touch, taste, and training, accuracy, tunefulness and
feeling, all of which indeed the small prodigy of last week
made ample display of—and yet the heavenly spark is
not there. Tried in this balance, Maud M. is found want-
ing, as are most of the debutantes Sydney has heard
lately. I remember too much Sykes.
They advertise the Melb. Alexandra as “the coolest
theatre in Australia.” Which is all right, when you con-
sider the frosts. But the Geelong theatre had the widest
reputation for arctic coldness. The proprietor, taking a
whisky with Dan Barry in the latter’s den on a hot
afternoon, suggested ice as an improvement to the liquor.
“Ice!" shrieked Daniel; “ice in this house 1 Great
, you'd ask for flannel undershirts in h—l 1 ”
Amusement advts. in Melb. dailies have shrunk sadly.
The falling-off means something serious annually to
A rocs and Aon. David Syme, with Scotch humor, fills
in the vacant space with funeral notices.
Alfred Dampier opened his season at Hobart Royal by
writing to the committee of the “ Patriotic ” Fund that
he’d give a benefit for the cause. At time of writing the
hen. hasn’t come off, hut it is presumably coming.
Alfred is doing a terrible Boer drama, and pit and gallery
have clean gone mad at the way the real Tas. soldiers on
the stage punch Dampier’s Boers, and have made poor
old Ned Holloway’s life a misery as Oom Paul.


A. E. GOLDSTEIN,
(c/o S. lIOFFNUNG & GO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Qem Field.
ZOLLNER'S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes,
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
80-36 Druitt-st., Sydney.
fcs
%
ISs&S)
Zv
IfeSmoke
Wholesale Agents—M. RUTTY & CO.—Sydney.
FOR GENTLEMEN
OF TASTE.
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Ilorsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &. c., &c.*
* • • - •
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
» * * *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucel
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, and all sortsof iron-work.*
* * » •
Scottish Crttto, September, 1899 : “ The most
striking feature noticeable in the accounts of the Colonial
Mutual for the past few years, and especially lor the past
twelve months, is the degree of stability which has been
attained by the Society.”*
• • • •
Mr. J. A. Wallace, the pioneer of the gold
dredging industry in Australia, holds a long stretch of
the Sandy Creek, near Yaokandandah, and intends instal-
ling a very large electrical plant to operate several
dredges. The Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South
Melbourne, has an order to supply high-class compound
condensing engines with Corliss valve gear of 400 h.p.,
together with boilers and fittings, to operate the first sec-
tion of the plant. A duplicate plant to tji>8 will be in-
stalled later and will work three electric dredges on a
stretch of about two' miles of the creek. Capacity of each
dredge will be about 150 cubic yards per hour.*
* • » *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Griinwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, prioe Is. 3d. post free.
• * a *
Gilfillan and M'Creery, Mining and Metallurgi-
cal Engineers, 434 Collins-street, Melbourne, report on
mines, attend to the flotation of approved properties on
the London market. Complete battery plant and Willey
table for bulk tests. Plans and specifications for all
classes of mining plant.*
* * • •
The United Brothers gold mine, situated at
Glen Wills, about 25 miles from Omeo, Gippsland, has an
improved appearance, and even better things are looked
for as deeper ground is reached. The mine possesses an
up-to-date mill. The stone is conveyed automatically to
hopper, thence to Gate’s Crusher and on to 20 head of
stamps of the A.T.B. pattern. A small but complete
plant of Luhrig Vanners and Classifiers treats the battery
tailings and continues to win a large percentage of valu-
able concentrates, which are a satisfactory source of
revenue to the co. This Luhrig plant was supplied and
erected under contract by Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere,
506 Little Collins-street, Melbourne.*
* * » •
Zeehan is much interested just now in the
wonderful returns obtained by the Fahey tribute party
working the South Silver King block. They are taking
out ore at the rate of £7000 a month, and have a five
years tribute. To the west of them the Argent lode is
giving splendid yields to a Bull co., known as the Mount
Zeehan Tasmmia Silver Lead Mines, Ltd. This show has
paid one or two dividends to its London shareholders.
An off-shoot of the Mount Zeehan co. is the Zeehan
Montana -Mine, Ltd., which has been paying regular
dividends since 1894. South, and adjoining the two Bull
co.’s, is the Colonel North Mines and Railway Co., Ltd.,
on which a large amount of prospecting has been done.
This co. has lately acquired from the liquidator of the
Van Diemen’s Land Bank, the old Grubb’s mine with con-
centrating plant, and a system of tramways which cost
±15,000 to construct. Sufficient new capital has recently
been raised by the Colonel North Co. to enable it to start
work in the Grubb’s shaft, where tribute parties took out
£32,000 worth of ore down to 275ft. The Colonel North
Co. means to extend its tramways to the Comstock dis-
trict, where the lodes are either pure galena or pure zinc
blende.
* * * *
“How came you to get so much dirt in this
consignment of copper ore?” said the boss of a N.S.W.
smelting-works, recently. “Well, it was this way. I
was instructed to send not less than six tons before the
prospectus came out, and as I found it impossible to get
that quantity of ore out of the mine, I had to make the
balance up with dirt.”
SLIMES!!
ONLY
Successful
Treatment
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co., London.
All particulars on application to
Hy. Markwald,
11 Pitt Street,
Sydney
178 William Street, Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
“Gibraltar Con. Gold Mines Ltd., Adelong,
N.S.W., Oct 12,’99. Referring to your favor re the Bil-
lett’s Patent Tuyere, I have pleasure in informing you
that the five we have in use here have given unqualified
satisfaction. We have two blacksmith’s forires and three
drill-sharpener’s forges fitted with these Tuyeres and after
atrial extending over some months we find that they
effect a saving in coal of fully 30 per cent. Since the in-
troduction of the Patent Tuyeres our men can sharpen 26
per cent, more drills than with the old style. They work
equally well with either bellows or compressed air, and I
can recommend them most highly for any class of work.
(Signed) S. W. Vale, Ohlef Engineer.” Write to W. Dew-
hirst, Broughton Lane, Sydney, for particulars and list of
agents.*
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The revenue returns for six provinces, so far as
their respective financial years have pone, are as follows.
Maoriland, as usual, is missing. The figures for Tasmania
represent a complete financial year, as that province closes
its annual accounts on 31st December. For the other
provinces they represent six months only, from 30th June
to 31st December :
Increase as
compared with
Revenue, corresponding
period of last
year.
Queensland .. ( 6 months) £2,403,333 £209,044
VVestralia .. ( „ ) 1,354,939 154,269
N.S.W. . .. ( ) 4,763,709 86,727
South Australia ( ~ ) 1,257,654 44,899
Tasmania .. (12 months) 943,602 35,597
Victoria .. ( 6 ~ ) 3,535,732 13,965
In proportion to population the improvement is
about at the following rate per annum :
Increase of Revenue per
inhabitant per annum.
AVestralia .. £1 16 8
Queensland .. 10 9
South'Australia.. 0 4 10
Tasmania .. 0 4 0
New South Wales 0 2 7
Victoria .. .. 0 0 6
Some tolerably solemn facts can be deduced
from these fisrures, despite the cheering circumstance
that all the provinces show an increase. In the case of
New South Wales the situation is this :
Half-year to Half-year to
31st December, 31st December,
1898. 1899.
Expenditure .. £4,909,049 £5,083,616
Revenue .. 4,676,982 4,763,709
Deficit .. .. £232,667 £319,907
The shortage for the half-year is therefore £87,240 more
than it was at this time last year ; the expenditure has
increased that much faster than the income, and there is
so much the more leeway to make up. And as the extra
item of war expenses can’t quite nil be charged to loans,
and there is therefore so much the larger a hill to meet
next half-year, the prospects are that there will he a fine
large deficit on 301 h June, 1900, and Early-Closing Bill
will fall into disgrace. The loan expenditure for the half-
year is £953,847, or £6 more than for the corresponding
half of 1898, so there is no improvement in that quarter.
Westralia’s revenue is still improving hand-
somely, hut the war expenditure may yet blight Forrest’s
hopes of getting clear of his deficit this year. South Aus-
tralia’s revenue has declined during the last quarter, and
allowing for extra expenditure incurred in shooting at
complete strangers in the Transvaal, it isn’t at all likely
that Harassed Holder will make ends meet this year.
Holder reckoned on a surplus of £195 for the year, and
there isn't much margin for unexpected wars there. The
Victorian revenue is also none too promising, though
Turner based his estimates on an expected decrease of
£222,617, and as there is no decrease thus far it is just
possible that the war bill will be paid without breaking
anything. But it will probably swallow up any chance of
further reducing the deficit this year.
The Tasmanian Treasurer estimated the year’s
'revenue at 1 946,780, and he has got almost within £3OOO
of it, so things are not very bad in that direction. And
without any allowance for Boer-shooting the year’s expen-
diture was put down at £856,600, so there was to be over
£90,000 to the good and the old deficit was to be reduced
to £166,000. The expensive killing of Braddon’s fellow-
creatures (a man like Braddon shouldn’t be allowed to
have fellow-creatures) will probably have somewhat dam-
aged this estimate, but no expenditure figures are avail-
able vet.
* * * *
For the first time since God-itnows-when Syd-
ney City Council has got through the year without a
deficit. The figures for 1899 were: Revenue, £197,181;
expenditure, £194,431 ; surplus, £2750.
* * * *
Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Works,
under the management of hard Fitzgibbon, produces
gome wonderful results. Among the most wonderful are
the hills sent in to unfortunate property-owners for the
sewering of their premises. One bill recently set forth
that the board’s humble but honest and industrious
bricklayer had spent 19£ days laying 112 bricks. And the
miserable house-owner had to pay. Nothing but the
dropping of 112 bricks on top of Fitzgibbon appears
likely to do any good.
* * • •
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the
U.S. makes a preliminary report of its position, as at
31st December, 1899: Assurance in force, £218,759,000;
increase during 1899, £13,092,264. Assets, £58,333.333;
increase during 1899, £4,506,396. Surplus, £12,916,666 ;
increase during 1898, £997,814. The new business of 1899
exceeded that of the previous year by over £6,500,000,
and the new business at the Australian branches in 1899
exceeded the 1898 business by nearly £lOO,OOO.
* » • *
The Royal Bank of Queensland shows another
solid increase in profits, the takings for the half-year,
ended 31st December, 1899, being t 8322. This compares
with some previous profits as follows :
June, 1894.. ..£6360 June, 1897 ..£7463
December, 1594 .. 6477 December, 1897 .. 7440
June, 1895 ... .. 5946 June. 1898 ... 7460
December, 1895 .. 6)33 December, 1898 .. 7579
June, 1896.. .. 6445 June, 1899 .. 7830
December, 1896 .. 6515 December, 1899 .. 8322
The profit is at the rate of £3 17s. 9d. per cent, per annum
on the shareholders' funds. The usual dividend at 2} per
cent, per annum (£4815) and dividend dutv thereon ( £241)
absorb £5056. An addition of 13000 is made to the reserve-
fund, raising it to £46,000, so it has now got hack to the
exact point at. which it stood when the disaster of ’93struck
the institution. After paying the dividend and setting
aside £3OOO there remains £266, which increases the pro-
fit balance to £2595. During the half-year just ended
deposits have increased ahovit £50,000 (from £761,186 to
£810.684). The cash and State securities are £311,086,
equal to the. unusually solid reserve of 35 per cent, on all
liabilities to the public. One small side-issue is that the
paid-up capital is £385,157, whereas six months ago it
was £386,254. Nothing is said about any forfeiture of
shares, nor is anything said about what the money was
applied to. Presumably it went to write down some-
thing, but the balance-sheet might have explained
the circumstance. It is a steadily-improving
balance-sheet, and the Royal Bank’s constant pegging-
away at the rehabilitation of its reserve fund can’t be too
much commended, but the document might be more
explicit in places.
* • • *
The National Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne) presents a balance-sheet for the year
ended 31st October, 1899. The net profit for the year,
after allowing £l6 for depreciation of furniture, is £2102,
and the usual dividend at 8 per cent, per annum absorbs
£2400, leaving £2 to carry forward. This compares with
some previous figures as follows :
Net Profit. Dividend paid. Surplus.
1892 £4506 15 per cent. = £4500 £6
Deficit.
1893 £4442 15 „ = £4500 £5B
1894 £2813 10 „ =■ £3OOO £lB7
Surplus.
1895 £3OOl 10 „ - £3OOO £1
Deficit.
1896 £2986 10 „ - £3OOO £l4
1897 £2383 8 „ ** £2400 £l2
1898 £2390 8 „ £2400 £lO
Surplus.
1899 £2402 8 „ = £2400 £2
£24,923 £25,200 Deficit £272
The case, therefore, is briefly as follows: In five out of
the last eight years the National Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. lias paid away more than its profits in
dividends. Taking the eight years, as a whole, it has
paid away £272 more than its profits in dividends. And
In all these bad times no visible provision has been made
for depreciation of assets apart from furniture. The
National Trustees has a reserve fund of £23,400, which
isn’t nearly large enough according to this writer’s ideas.
The necessity for Caesar's wife being above suspicion
wasn’t a circumstance to the same necessity in the case
of a trustee co., for nobodv is known to have left trust
money with Cajsar. The National, according to its old
foolish custom, lumps all its receipts as “ profit,
including interest, commission, &c., £6690.” If the
interest receipts were stated separately, it might
be possible to gather from them whether the
£24,575 of mortgages which form the largest asset were
in reasonably good health or not; the evidence is uncer-
tain, but still when assets yield 4 per cent, all round they
may be sound and fully worth the price set against them,
and when they yield 1 per cent, it is dead certain that
they are not. Owing to the National’s obscure and
blotted way of putting things, it is impossible to ascer-
tain whether its assets yield 4 or 1 per cent, all round on
their nominal value. Why the accounts are put in this
wav the management knows best. Apart from all other
questions, however, a management which consistently
spends all its profits in paying large dividends and makes
so little provision for contingencies doesn’t inspire
respect.
* * * *
“W.D.” (Sheppnrton): Recommend the A.M.P.
Society as the best. The National Mutual is also an excel-
lent institution.
* * * *
“W. McA.” : The action of your bui’ding
Society may be in accordance with its rules, in which case
you have no remedy. Not knowing the rules, we can’t
say. Even if there is no rule bearing on the case it is dif-
ficult to say for cer'ain that the society is acting illegally.
Probably no two judges would agree on the point. Your
only visible remedy is to sue the institution, and whether
you lost or won, your costs would almost certainly swallow
up the sum at dispute.
* * * ♦
The New York Life Insurance Co. gets some re-
sults by cable:
1898. 1899. Increase.
New Business paid for, £31,294,931 £41,563,786 £10,268,855
First Years Premiums 1,312,467 1,748,971 436,504
Insurance in force 194,243,028 218,106,996 23,863,968
* * * *
“ Elle ” writes : The N.S.W. Railway Commis-
sioners pleaded, in a recent test-case at Goulburn, that
the Govf. was being defrauded through people buying a
ticket for a station which was not their destination and
there obtaining a fresh ticket for the rest of the journey.
It seems curious that the two tickets should be cheaper
than one, but, in the inscrutable ways of railway-manage-
ment, such things are. By taking an excursion-ticket to
Goulburn (12s. Id.), then a ticket from Goulburn to
Gunning (3s. j, the trip from Sydney to Gunning and back
can be done for 15s. Id., second cla=s, while a return-
ticket (second class) from Sydney to Gunning is 325. 9d.—
a saving of 17s. Bd. bv breaking the journey. The Com-
missioners claim that the breaking of the journey is
fraud, but the public can’t be induced to see it in that
light.
* * • *
Of all Broken Hill companies the Sulphide Cor-
poration (B.H. Central) furnishes by far the most valu-
able data as to sulphide treatment. After it come Block
10, the British, and the B.H. Prop., co’s. in which J. Bull
is most interested ; and judging by the remarks which
the English investor occasionally makes about even these
ample reports, he would simply decline to consider the
bald statements with which Australian shareholders in
Block 14, the South, and one or two others are- supplied.
Taking the average weekly or fortnightly reports of the
latter group, the shareholder would probably conclude
that the huge concentrating mills erected on the mines
sort all the ore into two, or at the most three, classes—
concentrates, slimes, and tailings. As a matter of fact,
however, the product might be divided into a dozen
classes. The Sulphide Corporation makes five divisions ;
and this table shows what became of 102,133 tons ore,
worth 12'70z. silver, 18'4 per cent, lead, and 21 "5 per
cent, zinc., which was milled last half-year :
Tonnage. Proportion. Assay Value.
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
Concentrates 21,274 20 'S3 28'70z. 63'6% 9'9%
Middlings .. 21,105 20-66 9'2oz. 7'4% 28'9%
Slimes .. 8.590 B'4l 16'8oz. 20'9%’23'2%
Tailings .. 49,846 48'81 6'Boz. 4'4% 24%.
Zincs .. 1,318 1-29 12'8oz. 12'1% 31'7%
Concentrates are sent to the smelter ; all the other pro-
ducts call for a further treatment by concentration, except
sometimes in the case of slimes. It is in the re-treatment
of these “ secondary products,” as the mine-people call
them, that the co’s metallurgists have been mainly ex-
perimenting during the past year. F’or the further con-
centration of the middlings, jigs and vanners and Wilfley
tables are now employed. This particular co. has adopted
a jig, which has lately worked up the middlings to 12'8oz.
silver, 12'1 per cent.' lead, and 31'7 per cent. zinc. For
the further concentration of the tailings, magnetic sepa-
rators are now being used experimentally.
• * * •
The thing for a sulphide mining co. to aim at is
to increase the output of concentrates without sacri-
ficing their quality ; in other words, to get out more and
more of the silver and lead in the concentrates, leaving
the “secondary products” and r.he tailings poorer and
poorer in these metals. The recovery of lead by the Sul-
phide Corporation during the past three half-years has
been (beginning from the earliest term) 68'64 per cent.,
66'61 per cent., and 70'3 per cent. ; the recovery of silver
has also improved a little, though it is still under 46 per
cent, of the total contents. That is, of course, in the
concentrates; a good deal of the balance has been con-
tained in the zincs, middlings, &e., which have been sold ;
but when contained in these products the metals fetch
only a very small proportion of their value. And this
constant improvement in the recovery of the metals has
been accompanied by a gradual reduction in cost. From
3s. 6d. per ton (of ore) two years ago, the cost
of concentration has now been brought to between
2s. lid. and 3s. As against that, however, it ought to
be stated that, the wear and tear is greater now than it
was, and allowance for this is apparently not made in
these figures. Per ton of ore, however, this would be a
trifle only. Further, this improvement in two ways—in
cost and in recovery of metals—has been accomplished in
the face of a slight change for the worse in the ore : it has
become harder and more mixed with rhodonite. Also
by the improvement of ventilation and the greater use of
air-drilling machines the quantity of ore mined per shift
per man has been increased, the figures for the past three
half-years being I*9 tons, 2'16 tons, and 2'46 tons. And
at the smelting works (Cockle Creek, near Newcastle) the
cost of roasting and smelting has been brought down.
• » * •
Precisely the same movements are taking place
at all the B.H. mines—in measure greater or less accord-
ing to the brains and experience of the managements and
the local variation of the ores.
* • * •
Broken Hill co’s seize the occasion of the Ben-
digo miners’ lock-out to beat that district again for
“ hard-ground men.” There is something wrong some-
where. The Sulphide Corporation has as good a name as
any among workmen ; yet the manager says for a recent
half-year :—“ The number of men engaged has been 1220;
leaving and discharged, 1242 ; average number employed
(in the mine and mill), 764. So continuous and extensive
a movement in the personnel is very detrimental to satis-
factory working.” Apparently the conditions are not
good enough to draw first-class men, or if men of this
class are drawn the conditions are not good enough to
keep them, in view of the awful discomforts of Broken
Hill life.
• • • *
The prospectus of the Grassy Gully Mine, ap-
pears in this issue. It has a record of 54 tons of ore
crushed for an average return of 17oz. to the ton, and
though the tonnage is small, the results are excellent as
far as they go.
» * * *
New Chum Railway is adopting the only safe
plan of building up a reserve fund ; but most Bpndigo
co.’s are slow to follow suit, chiefly, no doubt, because
Bendigo holders have been such plucky call-payers
hitherto. And, so far, the co.’s that have adopted the
plan have not specified in their reports how their reserves
are kept—a most important point, of course.
• • * •
“Sardonyx” directs attention to the difference
in the working costs of two low-grade Vic. mines. Star
of the East, Ballarat : 1087 tons, 5260 z.; average, 9?dwts.
Result, 6d. call ; shares, 3s. New Moon, Bendigo : 2065
tons, 5480 z. ; average, sdwts. 7grs. Result, a div. ;
shares about 7s.
• • • •
Bendigo’s gold output for the year Was 2 1 3,9440 z.
(approximately), against 217,7230 z. in ’9B. But apart from
’9B we have to go hack to ’B5 for as good a total yield.
Calls were £135,552, and divs., £208,922; the correspond-
ing figures for ’9B were £151,583 and £228,429. Garden
Gully tops both the output and div. lists, the former with
18,1970 z., the latter with £51,085 (’9B figures were
15,1430 z. and £47,761). Other principal producers were
Great Southern, 10,9450 z. (15,2480 z. in ’98); New Moon,
10,2380 z. (8800 oz.); New Chum Railway, 92100 z.
(13,887 oz.); M’DufT, 73750 z. And other principal div.-
payers—M’DufT, £22,100 ; New Moon, £21,000 ; New Chum
Railway, £15,768; Koch’s Pioneer, £13,750; Great
Southern, £11,012; and all others under £lO,OOO each.
Ulster United paid £9600 divs. out of 36400 z. won ; the
New Moon’s £21,000 was paid out of 10,2350 z., Koch's
Pioneer’s £13,750 from 65600 z. ; and Great Northern’s
£9375 from 56950 z. Of M‘ Duff’s £22,100 only £3900 was
paid In the second half of the year.
* * * *
What splendid call-payers some of these Bendigo
investors are ! United Whip and Jersey has made its
110th call without a break for the payment of a single
div., South Belle Vue its 90th, Eureka its 7Sth (mostly
sixpennies). Garden Gully Consolidated its 62nd. The
worst luck lias clung to the Eureka, which has been most
enterprisingly delving away to practically no purpose in
the neighborhood of 3000 ft., while next door the N.C.
Railway has been steadily div. paying.
* » * •
Between 1851 and 1897. Bendigo banks and
gold brokers have bought 12,649,5150 z. gold, worth, say,
£50,000,000. And, in the early daj's especially, much of
the district’s product was taken to Melb. for sale.
* * « •
New Moon (Bendigo) has paid 17s. Gd. per
share this last year ; though certainly there are only
24,000 shares. Besides, about £3OOO has gone to the new
battery account. Last half-year’s figures ;—7929 tons
crushed for 26340 z. ; pyrites, <fec., add 556 oz.—total,—total,
31900 z. Co. has been working stopes 50ft. wide in places.
Costs amounted to 16s. lOd. ; of this, wages (mining,
hauling, and development) are down for 7s. 6d., crushing
4s. o)d., mining charges 2s. ll£d. Management is debited
with 2Jd., and rents, &o. f Jd. Co. finished with £l5OO in
hand.
• • • •
Greater romances than the pegging of the Kal-
goorlie mines by Brookman there are none. Six years
ago W. G. Brookman left Adelaide at the head of the
Coolgardie Prospecting Syndicate, total capital £l5O.
Passages, camels, and rations left little by the time the
syndicate’s prospector reached Hannan’s. To cut a long
story short, that £l5O syndicate secured the Boulder,
Ivanhoe, Associated, Lake View Consols, Lake View East,
South, and Extended, Oroya, and other mines, aggregat-
ing in market value to-day £21,000,000. The Kalgoorlie
mines employ 6500 men and pay £28,000 weekly in wages
—mostly on the mines acquired by the Brookman syndi-
cate. Exclusive of alluvial, Kalgoorlie has produced
1,583,3220z5. ; and 725,1590z5., or nearly half the total
yield, has been produced in 10 months of this year. Kal-
goorlie alone is now producing more gold than any one of
the eastern provinces—it has already exceeded the Vic-
torian output this year, and is running the whole of the
Queensland yield very close. The dividends declared by
Kalgoorlie mines for the ten months of 1899 total
£1,560,000, and the total divs. to date are £2,708,000.
Kalgoorlie contributes over 60 per cent, of the total gold
output, of Westralia. Of individual mines here are some
figures Lake View Consols, yield 401,7140 z. ; divs.
£875,000 ; market value, £5,000,000. Boulder, 317,2570z5. ;
divs. £688,000 ; market value, £3,500,000. Ivanhoe,
177,5930z5. ; divs. £288,000 ; market value, £4,000,000.
Associated, 173,4390z5. ; divs. £225,000 ; market value,
£6,000,000. Brown Hill, 156,1510z5. ; market value,
£1,500,000. Horseshoe, 124,5990z5. ; market value,
£3,900,000. Perseverance, 77,9850z5. ; market value,
£2,625,000. The Brown Hill, Perseverance, and Horse-
shoe were not acquired by the W. G. Brookman syndi-
cate, but the Mint, Oroya, Bank of England, Lake View
South, Lake View Extended, View and Boulder Junction,
and the Brookman Boulder were taken up by Brookman.
Most of these mines are producing, although not yet div.- 1
paying, and stand on the market at £1,650,000. Thus
from £l5O has grown a div.-payment (exclusive of 1
bonuses) of £2,076,000, and a share-market value of
£21,000,000. Kalgoorlie’s total output this year will beat
the whole Westralian production for last year. The re-
duction plant of Kalgoorlie consists of 300 stamps, 10
Huntingdon mills, 12 cyanide plants of various capa-- 1
cities, two local sulphide plants (and more in course of
erection). Enormous quantities of sulphides and telluride
ores are sent to smelters at Fremantle, Port Pirie, Port
Adelaide, and Dapto. Since the dividend-tax came into
law last July Kalgoorlie has paid £32,000 in tax. The i
total output of Westralia for this year up to the end of
October is 1,365,3840 z. Of this Kalgoorlie has contri-
buted two-thirds ; and most of Kalgoorlie’s yield was
from the mines taken up by the obscure little syndicate
of ’93.
* • • •
Between Nov. 1G (when it began to be very
doubtful whether Bnller would help Kruger to some ’99
Xmas pudding in Pretoria) and the close of the market
just before Xmas, the leading dozen Kalgoorlie stocks
slumped £8,528,671. How much of this ought to he
debited to a weakening of confidence in the sulphide
plants writer isn’t going to tell—for an excellent reason.
Lake View Consols toppled £1,825,000; Associateds,
£1,781,250; Boulders, £984,370. Lower-priced stocks
don’t show it so much ; but the Golden Link’s fall from
£3 ss. on Nov. 16 to £1 12s. 6d. on Dec. 21, and Hannan s
Oroyas’ plunk from £4 6s. 3d to f 2 6s. are enough to give
any investor a lot of tired feeling. Horseshoes have
stuck on as well as anything ; their thud only amounted
to £337,500—fr0m £l5 2s. 6d. to £l4.
• * * *
Tas. statistics for the year just closed set the
value of mineral raised at close on a million and a-half —an
increase over 1898 of £679,565. If Tasmania held but half
its mines as a State asset, it could do away with all taxes.
But it doesn’t own a solitary mine ; doesn’t even own a
smelting plant. The latter would be about the best invest-
ment Tasmaniacould strike just now, but the hopeless poli-
ticians of the Land of No Desire wouldn’t dream of pro-'
posing Govt, interference with private enterprise. Tas.
is the happy hunting-ground of syndicates; foreigners
swallow the mineral wealth, while the majority of Tas-
manians swallow 6d.-a-yard barracouta, and help John
Bullion to bash Boers.
* • • •
Tasmania is a mineral variety show. List of
December exports :—Asbestos, wolfram, copper ore, cop-
per blister, gold, gold pyrites, gold concentrates, iron ore,
silver ore, silver-lead bullion, oxide mineral. Value of
the lot, £119,943. Previous year’s value, £77,468.
• • • *
Tasmania has eight mines producing gold just
now. The battery retnrns of the eight for December,
read : Tons crushed, 5305, ounces won, 6290; value,
£25,160.
• • • •
Some Tas. December dividends : Tasmania, 25.,
£6OOO ; New Golden Gate, 35., £4BOO ; Mt. Bischoff, 155..
£9OOO ; Briseis, 6d., £l5OO ; Mt. Lyell, ss. (including Is.
bonus), £68,500.
* * • .
The Flyspeck’s boss gold mine, the Tasmania,
averaged loz. 16dwt. 9gr. per ton last crushing. Value of
gold raised to date, £1,723,294 ; paid in divs., £706,071;
present reserve nearly £40,000.
• • * *
Zeehan (Tas.) mines silver output for December:
Montana, £6OOO ; British Zeehan, £5683 ; Fahey’s Tribute,
£5400; Western, £2884 ; Oonah, £1006; Silver Queen,
£1026.
• • * *


fM
i
A COOL CUSTOMER
IN
>=-SUMIVIER ATTIRE.
Washing and Lounge Sacs
and Trousers.
In White or Fawn Khaki ... 14,6
Fancy Flannels, 21/6,28/6, 82/6, 38/6
Fancy Flannels (Double-breasted
i Sac) 35/-
Fancy Stripped Linens 30/-, 35/
Assam Silk 35/-, 40/
For
Evening Wear.
Dinner Jackets (silk-faced)... 46/
Black Worsted Trousers ... 21/
Vests.
Fancy and White Duck
6/6, 7/5, 10/6
Fancy and Colored Cashmere
8/6, 10/6, 12 6
Men’s Lounge Sacs.
Black Alpaca 12/6
Colored Alpaca 8/6
China Silk ... 14/6,18/6, 25/-
....... „ , 1 Cotton ... 7/6
White Duck | Linen 10/6
Russia Crash 10/6
Men’s Trousers.
Fancy Tweeds ... 8/6, 10/6, 12 6
White Serge ... 11/6,12/6,15/6
White Duck
Russia Crash ...
5/6, 8/6
7/6
FIRST QUALITY Ready-made
EXTRA QUALITY Ready-made
SPECIAL QUALITY Ready-made
Men’s Orient Suits
Men’s Orient Suits
Men’s Orient Suits
DAVID JONES &
Orient Clothiers,
George & Barrack
Streets, Sydney.
VOLUNTEERS h»
THF W A 1:1
dsa
DON’T LEAVE WITHOUT ONE OF
HARRINGTONS
SNAP
Easily Carried
Easily Used
SHOT
CAMERAS
Modern Cameras will take a BATTLEFIELD by simply pressing the button —
while a Single Picture will command double the price of a Camera.
US’ Complete Outfits from £1 Is., .£1 10s., £3 35., £5 ss.
BS" Over a Hundred Varieties up to £5O.
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.
66 KING STREET,
PHOTOGRAPHIC
MERCHANTS.
SYDNEY,
Brisbane Branch —34 Queen Street.
Melbourne Agents—l 79 Collins Street.
AGENTS
In every Colony.
SOCIETY
“ A FAMILY AFFAIR .”
MISS MURPHY : “ Please, Sergeant, will you send
a policeman up to Mrs. Murphy’s, ’cause
young Mr. Murphy is fighting old Mr.
Murphy, and old Mr. Murphy is not as good
with his dookes as he used to he, and Mrs.
Murphy says if some one doesn’t come up
young Mr. Murphy will give old Mr. Murphy
a hiding.”
S.A.’s periodical murder-case invariably
happens along from the lone, forlorn, sandy
country on the Australian Bight. People kill
each other down there because they are sorry for
each other, and it is better to be dead than ,
alive on the Bight. The latest crime comes *
from the usual spot. A petty dispute
between two Hindoo hawkers (both
soured by much sand) at Denial Bay
ended in one of them having his
skull split open with an axe. A
coroner and jury toiled out into the
wilderness and took evidence with a
pencil on tea-oase paper ; the mur-
derer was chained up in the J.P.’s
barn ; and the local clergyman humanely
buried the body. The live Hindoo is a
fatalist who apparently swears by capi-
tal punishment, for his only remark
is—“ Gentleman bring rope and me
hang.” And he seems quite willing to
meet gentleman with rope.
* * * *
A horror that will probably keep
a good front place for many years is that
story of the unknown fiend who put a
three-months-old infant in a kerosene-
tin, and left it to fry to a horrible
death from flies and the summer sun-
glare on the plain near Bourke —one
of the hottest and most parched re-
gions in the N.S.W. interior. Even
among the many horrors of that
region, which is called “bush” be-
cause it is mostly bare dust, this one
sounds new.
* * * *
Shylock was completely outdone
by that woman who at Marylebone
(London) police-court, recently, brought
forward a boy, and asked the magistrate
whether, by the law of the land, she
could impound the urchin as a security for
debt. She had lent some money to his relatives,
and wished to use it as the purchase money of the
lad. The applicant seemed quite surprised that
she could not exchange a debt for flesh and blood,
and left the court declaring that the law is still
very defective.
• • * •
There was a touch of pathos in Buller’s
complaint—“ it is evident the Boers don’t admit
more than a tenth of their losses.” The enemy
who refuses to own up to his heaps of slain is even
more irritating than the friendly boxer who gasps
“I nearly caught it that time” when you have
just landed him what you thought was a “beauty”
in the eye.
* » * *
If young Australia wants to take unto
himself a wife, a mountain-battery at 200 yards
won’t stop him. Also, being a firm be-
liever in the honeymoon section of the
marriage custom, he has many schemes
for “gettin’ the few quid t’gether ”
—one of them is cattle-lifting. At
Maitland (N.S.W.) Quarter Ses-
sions, Judge Docker, in sen-
tencing a youth named Am-
brose Isaac Caban to 12
months (suspended under
F.O. Act), commented:
“He committed the crime
two days before the date
fixed for his wedding, so
that he was evidently try-
ing to raise the wind for
the honeymoon.” It was
not the first time such a
course had been adopted.
In the Western district
a short while back,
another Y.A. was ar-
rested for a similar
offencewhile on hishoney-
moon. He and his pansy
blossom were spendiug
the proceeds of the stolen
cows on love’s young
' dream, when an elderly
married policeman who had
long outlived his own honey-
moon ran him in.
* *
Wellington (M.L.)
police-court had its barren
monotony broken, the
other day, by a compara-
tively cheerful episode. A
solicitor came in hur-
riedly to defend his own
especial drunk, cramming
his pipe into his coat pocket
as he entered —he had been
doing a smoke on the pave-
merit outside when a bobby rushed out to tell him
that his especial drunk was on. He was an elo-
quent solicitor, and as he stated his case in power-
ful language the bench hardly noticed at first that
a thin cloud of smoke was rising from him.
Presently, however, the smoke became more
obvious, and the bench sat petrified while a
blazing solicitor addressed it. Then suddenly the
legal authority stopped short, and hurriedly
mentioning an irrelevant place of one syllable, he
left his case and fled to extinguish himself at the
nearest water-tap. Later he came back, a wetter
and a sadder man, with both coat-tails burned off,
and resumed business.
Strangers at Hobart (Tas.) used to be
struck by an effigy on a pub. opposite the wharf,
representing Lord Rodney*, or Lord-knows-who,
waving a sword and cheering his men on into the
threepenny bar. This old land-mark has gone
and the premises are to be turned into a jam-
factory. Everything in Hobart is to be a jam-
factory. Possibly when Federation is accom-
plished the remnant of local legislators will meet
in Heathorn’s Hotel (where half the business is
done even now) and let the ’Ouse of Parliament
as a jam-factory.
* * * •
Bets are being made in Melbourne on the
possibility of Brassey falling into the Yarrain the
course of his progress from Prince’s Bridge to the
Sunbeam in a rowing boat
He has chosen this mode
of departure from Mel-
bourne himself. He is to
get into a rowing boat at
the bridge and be pulled
down to his yacht, which
will be moored down
stream ■at one of the
wharves. Can he do it
without falling out of the
boat, or tumbling as he
climbs into the Sunbeam ?
The Yarraisa disagreeable
stream to fall into, and
as the old man is going,
and can bore Melbourne
no more, it is not desired
that he shall perish. Any-
way, it is unreliably alleged
that the Victorian Govern-
ment has ordered a corps of
men to follow the vice-regal craft in another
boat ; provided with life-buoys and hooked poles.
* * * *
Jones, suspected of the Broadford (Vic.)
murder, has been a good deal of a mystery. First
of all, the police, to a certain extent, constructed
Jones out of vague rumors and pieces of rather
hazy information. Then they built up the des-
cription of Jones (if he existed) from more or less
uncertain evidence, and having done these things,
they set out on Jones’s track. The track was
somewhat dim, partly through effluxion of time,
and partly through the want of any absolute cer-
tainty that Jones was at the other end of it. In
a thickly-peopled country you always find tracks.
One policeman got within a mile of a traveller be-
lieved to be Jones, who was either flying from the
police or else just going somewhere. Then he was
led off on a blind scent to the Melbourne road,
and pursued another alleged Jones till that per-
son evaporated into thin air. Later, he came
back to the original track, and it was discovered
that the suspect (still mentally described as Jones)
had drunk a long beer at Kilmore and then
vanished, either by concealment or because he
had reached home and was having tea. There-
fore both of Jones had gone, and the force was
left rushing up and down main-roads and bye-
roads, and stopping large quantities of Jones at
random. The great trouble in such cases is that
the description supplied often proves to be a com-
pound of hazy recollections of three or four differ-
ent men, and the sum-total is that the suspect is a
tall dwarf with eyes of a light black and bald
curly hair. The average man’s want of definite
observation, combined with his anxiety to help
the police by telling them all he knows and things
he doesn’t know, has a great deal to answer for.
* * * *
Bad times—or what ? In the S.M. Herald
of Dec. 26 there were two “ Silver Wedding” and
14 “In Memoriam ” notices; but not a single
original marriage or death notice. Nor a birth
either. Apparently people can’t afford to do new
things just now, so they do the old things over
again
THE KIND OF THING THEY LAUGH
AT IN THE POLICE-COURT.
MAGISTRATE: “ Well, what are you?”
WITNESS: “A shop-walker.”
MAGISTRATE : “ A shop-lifter? ”
CONSTABULARY : “Hal Hal Hal Hal ”
HIS CONQUEROR.
Oo m Paul Kruger
Sitting on his stoep,
Drinicing cups of coffee,
Face aglow with Hope.
“ They have brought their cannon,
Guns both great and small,
But we have our guns, too,
Here in the Transvaal.
“ They have besought their God to
Give to them His aid—
Joshua’s God is my God !”
Oom Paul Kruger said.
Up there rode a horseman,
In his hand he bore
Something neatly rolled up
Like a music-score.
“ What is this ? ” cried Kruger ;
Horseman’s visage pales—
“ Found it on a Lancer
Come from New South Wales.”
Kruger took and read it,
Face set like a stone ;
Saw it was a ballad,
Groaned a bitter groan.
Kruger took and read it,
Face like glue became —■
“ Sons of New Britannia”
Was the ballad’s name.
From the hand of Kruger
Fell his coffee-cup.
“ All is lost,” he murmured;
“ Boys, the game is up.
“ We can face their cannon,
Never flinch nor fly—
When they sool their bards on
We can only die.”
A PICTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
"cneath the ivattle’s gold they stood,
And the pampas' waving plume,
n the satin and gloss of their wedding clothes —■
On their brows the stamp of doom.
'h, why drawn faces and mournf ul looks *
When all should be blithe and gay ?
Why are the bride and the bridesmaids sad —■
And the groom—on the wedding day ?
Have they heard of some dear friends lost afar
On the billowing, rolling sea —
Gone through the leaves to the sea-maids’ caves
And the doom that we all must dree ?
Has the fear of Famine o'erspread the land,
Or Plague with her poison breath ?
Do the nations perish like rotten sheep
In the clutch of a nameless Death ?
But see ! —the dark suspense is o’er,
Ho longer they look forlorn ;
They break into mirth and a laughing joy
As bright as a young Spring morn.
I know not what angel of light had come,
What shadow of dread had gone ;
But across the camera’s glittering eye
The camera-cap was drawn.
M.L.
MARSHALL HUDSON.


The Elixir of Life—
ZETZ-SPA WATER.
Try it. See that you get
ZETZ.
HALF-SICK
PEOPLE.
Just sick enough to feel heavy-headed,
lazy, and shiftless; to have no appetite;
to sleep badly ; to have what you eat feel like lead in
your stomach. Not sick enough to take to bed, or
to call a doctor, but sick enough to not know what to do.
RAFFAN’S HEPATIC
Per post, Is 3d. SULPHUR PILLS
65 ELGIN STREET, CARLTON, MELBOURNE.
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATKONAGB^/
...0n...
Mr- Fraok s€ijior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
Bracing 2
Refreshing!
Invigorating!
ADD A LITTLE
Condy’s Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
The effect is magical.
All Substitutes are inferior.
Insist on Buying CONDY’S FLUID.
During rhe hot f
Summer weather i
LIFEBUOY
DioINFECTANT SOAP j
is a perfect luxury in the
bath, and is healthful and |
invigorating.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free bp post throughout
A ustralia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Brisbane Q'land.
SUN HATS & HELMETS
FREE BY POST.
QU AID’S Patent Kapri Air-Chamber HEL-
METS—White, 22/6 ; Drab, 25/6 each.
Recommended by the leading Physicians of
Tropical Australia.
B. MOUNTCASTLE Sc SONS, Sole Manufacturers
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
“Eller”: Think the number of people
going dotty of late may safelv be put down to the
pianos, which
drug on the
every
has a <(
which
at present are a
market. Nearly
scrag of a place
“goanna,” upon
the kids learn, from
A WOMAN’S QUESTION.
“Did you say, or did you not say, John, what I said you said you said? Because Will said
you said you never said what I said you said. Now, if you did say you did not say
what I said you said, then what do you say you said?”
3d. »iesson up, to strum something. And generally
they only learn to strum anything. Or, father,
they strum everything, and strum it all the same
way. lam an Imperialist, and believe in sending
a contingent to help in the present war. Also, I
believe that every piano in Australia should be
confiscated, and the whole lot auctioned in
Europe, to pay war expenses. The rest of the ex.’s
might be paid by a customs-and-excise duty of £4O
on every musical instrument under the sun.
* * * *
Dunedin (M.L.) had a lively time with
the war fever, when Sandy and Duncan and
Donald, excited by the bray of the bagpipes,
planked down money to the tune of =£3ooo. Next
day there was a further collection, when the
bawbee and the mite were thrown promiscuously
into a tarpaulin spread behind the railings in the
Octagon, so that if the donor repented after throw-
ing over his halfpenny, he couldn’t get it back with-
out publicly climbing over the fence and fighting the
custodians of the money. At the patriotic meet-
ing every speaker was allowed to wave the special
flag of his country over himself to the accompani-
ment of much popular joy, and when someone
stuck over the platform a notice that England
expected every man to do his duty, the originality
of the sentiment struck the public in a fresh place.
But Dunedin showed its own particular cloven
hoof once more when a man stood up and said he
was grieved to see wine and spirits going to the
Transvaal with the contingent ? Did he expect
bottles of beef-tea and arrowroot to keep hot all
through the war ?
* * * »
The Boer war up to date has produced
nothing to equal the heroism of “several English
ladies ” who died of the landslip at Amalfi the other
week. The cable reports that the local hotel, al-
though torn up by the roots, was not actually
swept away on the instant. The ladies got safely
disentangled from the ruins, but they subsequently
perished in a gallant attempt to go back and save
their jewellery. Ye gods ! Lovely woman would
pluck a diamond bracelet even from the cannon’s
mouth.
C * * *
London Evening News’s war barometer
is a toy wall, with a ladder planted against it and
a toy Tommy Atkins climbing up. Kruger is
at the top, and his facial expression is supposed to
become more and more wild as the Absent-minded
Beggar comes nearer. Owing to certain recent
slippings-down of the Beggar, however, Kruger’s
face-barometer kept set fair for a long time and a
horrid smile appeared on his leathern countenance.
* * * »
War item from London Daily Mail :
When the Boers entered the town they went to the posi-
offiee with the intention of taking possession of it. They
were met by the postmistress, an Englishwoman, who
not only declined to turn over the post-office to them,
but ordered them off the premises, and dared them to
interfere with colonial property. The Boers were non-
plussed by the lady’s determined manner. They went
outside arid hoisted the Free State flag. The postmistress
pulled it down and ran up the Union Jack again. The
Boers stuck up a proclamation annexing the district.
The postmistress tore it down, and put up the Governor’s
proclamation against treason. The Boers finally retired,
and the latest accounts from Lad.vgrey state that .the
heroic woman is still in possession of the post-office.
This reads like a very good lie or a very bad
anomaly. For if it is true, why is it that the
large-booted Dutch farmers, who are said to have
so freely bumped and bruised women who offered
no provocation, didn’t boot this heroine off the
premises and then take possession ? To act up to
their alleged character they ought at least to have
removed her by her streaming back hair, or
poured water over her till she left, or nailed her
ear to a board and then taken away the board.
At a recent Sydney
religious function a certain
sanctimonious parson was
provided with a seat be-
tween two R.C. priests
—two jovial jokists, who
immediately proceeded
to “ pull the leg ” of the solemn shepherd.
One of them remarked that Cardinal Moran
was very strict. “ I asked him if I could
go to the races the other day, and he
said ‘No; I’ll be d d if you can.’” The
sky-pilot straightened up, and said, “Surely the
Cardinal never made use of such an expression ? ”
“ Oh, no ! I don’t think he could have said that,”
chipped in the other “praste,” with a wink to his
mate. “ You must have misunderstood him.
I’ve known ‘ Pat Moran ’ for four years, and,
drunk or sober, I’ve never yet heard him swear.”
* * * *
Mrs. Fraser, the hysterical and golden-
haired Melbourne lady who shot her husband and
then got out on bail to nurse the stoical gentleman
back to life, has burst forth in a new place. She
wants to cut her golden hair short, and put her
shapely limbs into boy’s clothes, and go as a spy
among the Boers, and her proposal was gravely
submitted to the authorities. The lady says that,
among other qualifications, she has never worn
corsets, and is 37 inches round her snow-white
circumference when measured underneath the
arms; also, when she takes a deep breath she can
expand considerably. The idea seems to be that
she will go as far as the Boer lines in her present
size and then take a deep breath and disguise her-
self by expanding. The callous M'Lean, how-
ever, has rejected the proposal. Treasurer Shiels,
who is also romantic and hysterical, and given to
expanding in the head if not in the chest, ought
to have looked favorably on the lady’s proposal,
but perhaps the stodgy element in the Cabinet
voted him down.
• * * *
The call for volunteers to help the Absent-
minded Beggars in South Africa was a godsend to
some Australian public servants who had been
lost for years in dingo townships on the plains
and had pleaded vainly for a removal to civilisa-
tion. They applied for temporary leave in order
that they might offer their services in the war,
and the Department didn’t know whether any
particular candidate was spavined, er a confirmed
roarer, or gone in the feet, or otherwise ineligible,
so it assumed that the enthusiasm was all genuine
and let them come. Some of the applicants were
genuine enough, but the fat and the hopeless
streamed down also, and were rejected, and spent
the rest of the time applying for a removal. And
some exiles who had previously applied for years
without any result were brilliantly successful,
especially when they lamented because they
weren’t going to the war, and said they wanted
to be close at hand so that they could apply again
when the next Contingent was made up. Of
course sundry public servants who hadn’t sense
enough to volunteer have gone Out Back in their
places, but that doesn’t matter. The man who
doesn’t want to go on the shoot is a very small
person just now.
* * * *
Thus Emily Soldene in her letter from
London to Sydney Evening News
The blood of the nation is up. We don’t get much
news, hut some of it is toothsome. What particularly
pleases me, and I’m not a bloodthirsty person, is the
bayonet charges. The Boer don’t like cold steel. He
like to skulk behind a stone or an anthill, and snipe our
boys. When the gleam of the broad, bright, sharp-
pointed bayonet falls across his eyes he tumbles on his
knees and howls for mercy.
I find this distinctly refreshing. “We went through
them again and again, We bayonetted eighty of them
all of a heap.”
That’s what pleases me. I can hear the impact—the
shriek of despair—the slide—the crash—the crackle. Then
the sword practice has not been bad.
Emily is not bloodthirsty ; she only likes to hear
the slide and the crackle.
The hen picnic is quite a usual festival
now among Melbourne girls, but it is not a
success, partly because a limp young man with a
nice tie and an expression of adoration is. essential
to the average girl’s happiness at a picnic, but
mainly because things generally go wrong. They
went wronger than usual with a girl-excursion
that landed somewhere in the bush near
Lilydale one day last week. They were
an awfully nice lot of girls, and even
the chaperone was young and lovely,
but when they were all grouped
around their first at fresco feed, a
horrid man in old clothes and having
a bad expression, chanced along, and,
after casting a gluttonous eye over the
meat and drink, simply entered into
possession. He drove the girls off in a
flock, and settled down on the comestibles
like a plague. When a timid creature ven-
tured near to expostulate, he grinned at
her with a malignant labored grin, and
shook his club, and the timid creature fled
screaming. The picnic stood round in a
circle at a respectful distance, and watched
the low, coarse brute tearing its pullets and
lapping up its elegant jellies, and resolved
with tears never to picnic in the leafy soli-
tudes again without the moral support of
at least one gigantic man. When the
unbidden guest had filled himself with
edibles, he gathered all the wine about him,
and went on a jag lasting two hours, after
which he fell amongst the ruins of the
meal, and slept. Then the girls gathered
up their belongings, harnessed their horses,
and fled from the bosky dell back to the
haunts of men.
The crop of New Year “honours” was
very poor this year. Not one degradation came
to Queensland, N.S.W., or Maoriland. Judge
Dodds, of Tasmania, and Mayor M’Eacharn, of
Melbourne, were made the very cheapest kind
of knights (the K.B. variety not even the
K.C.M.G.). Speaker James Lee-Steere, of W.A.,
who was a knight already, was made another kind
of knight, and Agent-General Cockburn, of S.A.,
got a small handle —a kind of pot-handle. Not
one politician in active service got anything,
THAT NEARLY-FORGOTTEN BLUE TICKET.
“Poor Miss Smith looks very lonesome; she hasn’t had a dance all the evening. I'll ask her
for this waltz."
“ Great heavens, man, do you know what you’re doing. She had a blue ticket at the Governor’s
reception. The people that had white tickets can’t speak to her now—they really can’t,
you know.”
despite the energetic despatch of contingents and
the vigorous grovel attendant thereupon. Pos-
sihly they will get their price on next Queen’s
Birthday, but M‘Lean, of Victoria, will very
likely be gone by then, and his gaud will come
back marked, “ Gone ; left no address.”
» * . „
The bushranging renaissance atßutherglen
(Vic.) has so far been a b lg success. The rangers
got away with £l5OO odd—half in negotiable cash,
and the rest in livers, easily changed at any big
race meeting. Two young men have been arrested
in Collingwood, but, although they were in the
vicinity of the robbery, the police will apparently
have their hands full to prove any more. Any-
how, the man who rises to bushranging on a
decent scale deserves credit, if not success. Few
crooked persons have an idea above second-hand
clothing or door-mats, and are paralysed at the
idea of taking £5 all at once. The robber of
thousands is nearly always an oily, underhand
person in a long black coat and a silk hat, and
when you find one wearing moleskins, and doing
his brigandage openly, he should be respected for
his originality. The Vic. police have found no
trace of any of the stolen money, yet all Riverina
has been busy prospecting the route of the alleged
robbery for the past fortnight^
Young Australia has little reverence for
old world traditions, even when he believes them.
A tale comes from Cardigan, near Ballarat, of a
batch of small boys who went missing at midnight
on Christmas eve, and after a search were dis-
covered, armed with shot-guns, lurking on the
roof of a large house occupied by the parents of
one of the marauders. It took many threats and
a yard of trace leather to get the truth out of the
ringleader, but at length he explained that for
two years Banta Claus had not brought anything
to three of their number, and their intention was
“to stick the beggar up as he was going down
the chimney of a favored house, and get away
with the whole of his stock.
* * * *
Queensland Police Commissioners heave
the following joke at the public’s head :
The fact that so few of the Brisbane public came for-
ward to prefer charges against the police in their indivi-
dual characters warrants us to conclude that, generally
speaking, the police behave with circumspection in their
relations to the public.
True! The class of men abused by the police
have mighty little chance of a square deal in case
they prefer a charge against our old friend, Con-
stable X. The average policeman knows his
mark fairly well, and seldom kicks a disorderly
city magnate to any great extent, or thrashes a
drunken M.L.A. in the cells. Occasionally he
makes a mistake, as in the recent case of Scott
(the well-known Brisbane athlete and son of a
prominent civil-servant), who lost his eye,'the
other day, during a short dispute with a vigorous
constable. But, as a rule, he picks his victim
with a great deal of the above-mentioned circum-
spection.
* * * *
The Queensland Xmas season was duly
celebrated, by no less than six murders. A poor
girl was killed and mutilated near Stanton Har-
court; an elderly woman was slaughtered at
Goondiwindi ; while three individuals were
butchered at St. George, the murderer committing
suicide. It was just about 12 months from the
famous Murphy tragedy, and crime tends to run
criminlfthathfir^nlThe^reL^est
fche looal lice aubh orities.


CORSETS^.
BCiilt op Apatotpical Pripciplcs,
Makipg dtie allowance for tbe flat, tigbt-
fittipg Styles P©w ip yogtie,
Are to be obtained at
FOY’S.
They allow arpple breatbipg rootp, apd giye
tbe correct b»P cCit at po sacrifice of corpfort
or Sbapelipess-
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
r running
m
<eaM INO,/ l
)„ MACHINES,
Write for our il'ustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
.
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St-, Brisbane.
Already Britain appears to be getting into
the hysterical condition of Paris at the Singe,
when the more or less imaginary German spy was
everywhere, and had a bad time when caught.
Recently two recruits who attempted to join a
British regiment were diagnosed l>y Tommy as
the hidden agents of Kruger, and almost mur-
dered on the spot. Probably they were Germans.
The desire to batter Queen Victoria’s country-
men is very strong just now.
Mrs. Dr. Fraser, the St. Ivilda (Melb.)
markswoman, is eager to exercise her soft blan-
dishments upon the Boers as a spy or scout on
behalf of the Australian contingent, or “on her
own.” Mrs. F. must remember a woman’s
success is generally in proportion to the seductive-
ness of her charms, ami as P.D. corsets bestow the
greatest charm, obviously the first duty of the
enterprising lady should be to provide herself with
a full equipment of P.Ds.*
“The light that (never) failed,” is without
doubt given by the " Albatross Lamp Wick.” Keep the
reservoir filled and all your work is over. “ It requires
no I rimming,” emits no offensive odour, gives a more
brilliant light, saves your oil, and unless your lamp has
some material defect, it is impossible for it to explode.*
An official denial of the rumor that N.S. W.
Govt, had agreed to pay Drs. Scot-Skirving and
M'Connick vast sums for volunteering to the
Transvaal was, it seems, really needed. Sawbones
innumerable were writing and wiring from all
quarters offering their services at “reasonable
rates,” and several hundred copies of diplomas
were dumped into the Col. Secretary’s Depart-
ment.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
The
In fallible
Exterminator
of Bedroom Insects
is now obtainable from all Chemists and Grocers,
at Is. per bottle.
Wholesale : ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd. ; all
Wholesale Grocers, and the Agents, 150 The
Strand.
GLOBE TEAS haye wo
Atclicrley & Dawson Limited, 2 57 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 8, 1900.
My Dear Myee,—
His Lx. is off on his travels again. The cables
never said a word about an exploring turn of
mind, and Sydney has had to grow up to the fact
that H.E. acids to his other dazzling qualities the
talent of acting the “Man who was Away.” In
his eight months of office he has inspected more
backblock architectural structures, brilliantly lit
with kerosene hanging from the cast-iron roof,
than any other Gov. up to date. At present the
vice-regal wanderer is getting impressions of Nor-
folk Island, accompanied by the genial Mr. B. R.
Wise and the only aide left him.
Society is mostly away at Bowral just now. It
seems that the Mountains are a shade less toppy
than they used to be. Everyone with a reputation
to keep up makes for Bowral, and the only fashion-
able event of the time-being happened up there
last week—the Hospital Bazaar, opened by the
Gov., and carried out by all the smartest women.
It has been quite an excitement this week,
getting sold when you went buying. On Wednes-
day the usual rush of suburban people went to
shop at the Universal Providery, and found the
doors locked, the shop deserted, and the Early
Closing Act in full swing.
To shoppers the difficulty is to know who will
be open on Wednesday afternoon or who shut.
One smart drapery haunt in King-street closes at
1 on Wednesdays and keeps open till 10 on Satur-
days. All the others round about are open till 6
every day. When we get to know their ways by
heart it will be all right, but at present you might
strike twenty shops wrongly on Wednesday after-
noon before you could get a pair of shoes.
But when you think of those hundreds of
ansemic shop-girls taking an afternoon off every
week of their lives henceforth, sleeping, lazing,
picnicking all those hours that used to be spent in
bending before fat women, and squeezing the
large fat feet of other people into little boots, you
are forgiven for feeling the same {esthetic thrill
that goes through you when a big man comes up
and kicks the man who is heaving metal at a lean
dog.
The only wedding I know of this month is Miss
Slattery’s. That comes olf in a fortnight at St.
Mary’s Cathedral, an early morning wedding,
eventuating at!) a.m.
The “Absent-minded Beggar” has arrived.
Dolly Vane introduces him into the
Panto, rather brusquely in my opinion. “Ah,
kind ladies, have you seen my boy, he has gone
away and left me. Ah, well, he always was an
Absent-minded Beggar.” That’s how she
tacks it on to Red Riding Hood. Then she
rattles her tambourine, and sings with all
the vim she possesses till her face breaks into
moisture. She wears her little pink and white
costume of the Land of Arcadia scene, ])ink
brocade polonaise over white satin petticoat, lace
falling from her elbow sleeves, and pink slioesand
stockings. A good deal of small money is thrown
after each verse, chiefly pennies ; for the first few
nights, at all events, it averaged £'A a night.
Everybody knows the dashing words, as character-
istically Kiplingesque as any Kipling ever wrote.
As for the music—Arthur Sullivan’s—it isn’t any-
thing to rave about, catchy, but more common-
place than you expect.
A second visit to the Pantomime found things
going gaily there. “ Red Riding Hood ” is having
a big success. It x was the special Saturday
Matinee—the Panto, bills two matinees a week
now—and the house was crowded with small
people whose comments often rival the text. For
instance, a little boy in the d.c. sat next to his fat
mamma. A thin lady in pink satin came out and
turned six somersaults backwards. “ Oh, can-you-
do-zat. Mummy ?” cried a shrill little voice that
carried all over the house. Everyone turned round
hastily and beheld Mummy endeavoring to con-
ceal her matter of twenty stone behind a six-inch
handkerchief.
On Saturday night, “David Garrick ” revived
at the Criterion with Walter Bentley in the name
part. Bentley airs rather an elderiy expression,
and the orthodox picturesque plum-colored
clothes, with velvet cape and big boots. Miss
Beatrice Dunckley, a Melbourne girl, dressed Ada
Ingot as if she were covering a piece of furniture.
In the first act there was a baggy pink muslin robe,
the hair curling on the shoulders, and filleted
with pink ribbon. In the dinner-party scene
she wore white satin tied up far too care-
fully with far too much wide blue ribbon. The
pretty frilly clingingness that always characterises
Ada Ingot’s dressing was found wanting, and a
slight “flnffiness” in her lines was thrown in in-
stead. On the whole, Miss Dunckley looked
rather well and acted promisingly, and, if she
would substitute even a simple white muslin for
the blue-and-white satin, the d.c. would think
more of her acting.
A great point in favor of this production is that
nobody wails. Miss Fanny Wiseman’s Araminta
Brown, in yellow cashmere, with a red frill round
the lower edge, and a red cockatoo in her hair, is
played chippily and neatly. Miss Ethel Hunt, as
Mrs. Smith, certainly leaves out all the large, fat,
comfortable aitchlessness of the mother of seven-
teen, but those weeping inflexions that are all the
wicked vogue just now among actresses clo not
blot the fair surface of “ David Garrick.’’
Why does the actress wail? Why, I mean,
when there’s nothing to wail at ? Ada Ferrar and
Maud Jeffries did this moanful style to death. It
was positive torture sometimes to get their
monotonous tearful tones ringing in your ear.
And yet half the actresses in Sj'dney are frantic-
ally chasing the mannerism, pulling out the tcar-
stop, and elocuting as if tlvere was a large boil at
the back of the soul. The most aggravated case is
Alice Deorwyn, in the “ Power and the Glory,”
followed very close by Ada Gresham. I notice
sorrowfully that Carrie Moore is dropping into
throatyism lately in her speaking voice. Henri-
etta Watson was blessedly free from it —more free,
perhaps, than any actress heard in Sydney for a
long day.
At “David Garrick” some inquisitive being
looked at the play bill and said, “ Who’s the play
by?” The play-bill named no author. The
query passed along the row. “ Who wrote ‘ David
Garrick’?” Everybody knew perfectly well,
don’t you know, but couldn’t remember for the
moment. Someone said it was by T. W. Robert-
son, and that was the time when everybody was
quite certain of one thin"—that ‘David Garrick ’
was not by Robertson. Is that one of the disad-
vantages of writing a too-successful play ? The
play lives ; the author dies.
In new music, there is Allan’s (Allan and Co.,
Melbourne) “ Musical Magazine,” a good shillings-
wortli of all sorts and conditions of song and
dance, including a piece called “Can it be Love?”
by Clarence Clare, that makes one waltz out of
Kenningham’s two songs, “My Darling” and
“ Can it be Love ? ” with four others thrown in.
By the way, there is only one tune in the Eng-
lish-speaking world just now. It is on everybody’s
lips, in everybody’s ears—“ Soldiers of the Queen,”
by Leslie Stuart. There is always a band playing
it somewhere, a boy whistling it, or a girl hum-
ming it; every patriotic meeting is flooded with
it; soldiers inarch away to it; the suburban villa
plays and sings it in the evening; and as long as
any of us remember the Boer war we will hear
that haunting, stirring march-song which even
threatens to swamp the great “God Save.”
The latest thing in Sydney sights has the quality
of novelty, anyway. A pretty wax woman sits at a
sewing-machine in a shop-window. She wears a
smart blouse and skirt, golden hair curling under
a net, and natty little patent-leather shoes. Her
wax feet inside the shoes rest on the pedal.
Her wax hands are on the machine, which works
mechanically, and all the day long she sits there
watching a piece of silk run under the needle, and
work its way back, and run under it again. I
was fascinated with the clever way in which the
moulder had caught the true worried dressmaker
look, and fixed it into the wax about the corners
of her mouth. All day long a crowd watches this
wax lady, and wonders why real flesh and blood
has to be offerei! up for the machine-god’s sacrifice
when wax seems to do so well.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“New Year’s Day, the date of Gov. Brassey’s
last appearance at Flemington, was the thirstiest
weather on record. If Skinner’s non-intoxicants
had run out, and an angel from Heaven had
chanced to drop down on the grand-stand with an
empty nectar bag, you bet she’d have drunk what
there was, and leaned a swelled head on her golden
harp next day. The Ancient Mariner, all in white,
looked a clean, wee gnome, with his cutty jacket
and pants and his big brolly, as he peeped out
from under a huge helmet. When not talking, he
dozed. Then he started from his dreams as if a
burning-glass had scorched him in the eye, when a
woman came by in scarlet blouse, poppy-laden
hat, and white skirt, and stood flaring in front of
the vice-regal pen, as if challenging the brazen
sky to out-dazzle her surface.
“ Aide Nevill and his employer had apparently
dressed with a view to contrast. The junior
looked phenomenally long, lank and sombre in
loose black alpaca and white gamp. Black
alpaca, somehow, seems associated with prunella
boots, white stockings, and bush parsons. Nothing
weird about the rest of the gubernatorial group.
The Governoress wore white muslin over blue and
black, and a crinoline hat. Attaches Pakenham
and Hindlip, dressing for coolness, had yet drawn
the line at sensationalism. The first-mentioned,
the cheeriest and ehirpiest of the Brassey staff, re-
joins his regiment in Africa almost immediately.
Lady Hopetoun’s brother, sugar - planter De
Moleyns, from Bananaland, is a tall, dark, good-
looking man, shy and rather short-nosed like his
sister.
“Nothing startling in recent race clothes.
Mdlle. Dreyfus, at New Year meeting, was chic in
corn-flower blue with biscuit-lace facings, pearl
necklet, white veil, and court patches. Another
Frenchwoman to the fore was the Consul s
daughter in white Eton suit, pink waistlet, and
red parasol. Daughters of Gaul are strong in
animation. When the lively demoiselle just
referred to was a school-girl, she was homely in
comparison with locally-produced spring chickens,
what with her dumpy figure, dark skin, lank
hair and irregular features. Now she’s a vivacious
chatter-box, able to hold her own with most.
What about these -timid French girls one
hears of, never off mamma’s apron-strings before
marriage? The local type is attractive but not
traditional.
“ Christmas—not usually a very riotous time in
Melb. —was from some unknown cause exception-
ally quiet this year. The one person who spent a
really merry Xmas was a small boy of unregener-
ate turn of mind and evil propensities. Said
youth, on Saturday evening, having sold his
Hkrai.ps, was leaning against a verandah-post in
Swanston-street, apparently meditating. The
verandah-post, in front of a fruit shop, was decor-
ated with a good-sized sapling far-out over the
street and tied merely by a piece of string. This
the boy cut, holding tight to the bush until tiie
psychological moment arrived for letting go. It
came —when a cyclist and cydiste were about
twenty yards off, close to the sidewalk. They
promptly rode into the falling shrub, and col-
lapsed. Then a passing cabby—in trying to avoid
the wheelers—drove right across the street into a
tram, upsetting a fruit-barrow on the way, and a
buggy-horse shied violently down Little Collins
Street until he tangled himself in a lamp-post.
All these people came back and spoke firmly to
the shop-keeper. Meanwhile the small boy looked
on, smoking a cigarette, and when it was all over
sauntered away with a bored air, remarking that,
after all, it wasn’t worth the bother.
“ The naiee people have not yet left town.
They slept the Xmas sleep of indigestion under
their own painted roofs, and are only now pre-
paring for the summer jaunts. Some, like Mrs.
George Chirnside, are remaining in town to feast
Uncle Tom ere that elderly fairy floats away on
his Sunbeam. It seems a most unnecessary act
of self-sacrifice on her part, but Mrs. G. C., bear
in mind, is one of the little band of matrons for
whom “ Uncle ” had always a winning smile—-that
is to say, as winning as he knew how to make it.
“Toys, sweets, &c., are so cheap and delightful
nowadays that grown-ups pity their own less-
favored childhood. Once upon a time, a small
girl saved, pinched, and scraped for a tea-set, with
‘real large cups.’ Finally, at a cost of 7s. Gd.,
she obtained her heart’s desire in the plainest
white-stone china. Large, lovely sets, in gaudy
boxes, go for Is. Gd. these times. In the long-ago,
the possession of a rocking-horse set a youngster
on a pedestal, to be courted and envied by his
fellows. Five pounds bought a wooden moke, in
remote districts, and the publican's son generally
owned the only specimen in the township.
‘Never mind, dearies!’ sympathetic mothers
would say, as their own darlings loitered and
■glared greedily into the hotel verandah, in pass-
ing. ‘Perhaps some tipsy man gave it to him !’
The result of this cold comfort appeared later on,
when Tommy got a ss. ‘ hobby-horse ’ for his
birthday, and said, wistfully, ‘I wish father got
tipsy ! ’ A noble breed of toy gee-gees is obtain-
able at present from 17s. upwards, but the simple
little fellow of to-day despises mimic horseflesh,
preferring the bike.
“Melbourne matrons are given to wearing
much conspicuous jewellery. Janet Lady Clarke
is burdened with an enormous gold heart, like the
emblem worn by religious sisters. Chief-Justicess
Madden wears as a brooch a large gold medallion,
with cameo setting, enclosing the enamelled
portrait of the beauty of the family. Mrs. Frank
Madden is loaded with an enormous cameo brooch.
Younger and friskier dames tinkle with all manner
of small trinkets, bracelet watches, belt brooches,
and other plate and harness.
“Srupert Clarke has not been keeping up the
interestin military affairs which his father affected,
by taking an active part in connection with the
war fund. One good reason is that nobody knows
exactly where he is. The genial young Part is
travelling somewhere in China —in Central China
it is supposed, but his whereabouts is indefinite.
Meanwhile, George Morrison, the brilliant (Lon-
don) Times correspondent in Pekin, is in Mel-
bourne on a visit to his brother-in-law, Henry
Higgins, M.P., and his numerous other relations.
He has been visiting England and is now again
bent China-wards.
“The death of Robert Chirnside. eldest of the
second generation of the wealthy clan, throws a
large family circle into crape and mourning. He
had always suffered from a weak chest, and his
devoted wife spent the last few years nursing him,
in the quiet of station life at Carranballac, Ship-
ton, or in various health resorts. Just before
Christmas they set out for Bendigo, and it was at
the Shamrock Hotel that the weary invalid died.
“ Wide-awake old Sydney has euchred us again.
Despite repeated warnings, local laggards in love
have let Miss Stanbridge, the Daylesford heiress,
slip through their fingers. She is to be wedded
very shortly to Mr. H. M. O. Cox, of Hawden,
(Rylstone, N.S. W.).
“Unmanly conduct on the part of a young
woman in a Melbourne suburb provokes these few
remarks. One young lady in the dressmaking
interest answered a matrimonial advertisement,
‘just for fun,’ and the fun went as far as the
fixing up of an appointment. At this stage the
little seamstress took a friend into her confidence,
and the friend took a high moral tone, and
urgently advised her not to keep the appointment.
The small sewing woman was so disturbed by the
moral tone that she was late in going to meet the
young gentleman ‘with a view to the above’ —she
got there, in fact, just in time to discover her
false friend getting into a cab with the prize.
There was a wild and woolly time when next they
met —the circumstance was even described as
‘assault,’ but that did not defer the wedding.
The friend married him, and he actually has a
good billet and some money. When you consider
that only about one in two hundred men who ad-
vertise ‘with a view to the above’ has the
slightest intention of the above, and that one
usually has no cash, you will admit that this is a
really hard case.
“’Tis rumoured that a moneyed belle, whoso
engagement is just announced, met her present
vassal aboard ship when her troth was still
plighted to a moro previous wooer. At that
juncture, there was nothing for the stricken
fellow-passenger to do but go nurse his grief by
India’s coral strand. Later, when the previous
person liad been shoo’d off the grass, he returned
from the plague-stricken land, and took possession
of the niche vacated in his idol’s fancy by the late
Crushed One aforesaid.
“Captain Ilaigh, aide to Cov. Jerry Smith, of
Westralia, went to the war per same boat as the
Australian contingents. Fellow-travellers report
him just the same big, rollicking, red-faced Irish-
man as ever. He was the life and soul of the
sports on board, and never looked sad except
when he, not seldom, lamented that the pretty
nurses volunteering for the front had not all come
by that boat.
“Two or three friends wrote me from London
in November that they were already heartily sick
of ‘The Absent-minded Beggar.’ The jingo verses
had been sung, recited, tableau’d, quoted, and
shillinged in all directions until they couldn’t gaze
on the letter K without loathing. And then, last
and worst of all, came a 4-act melodrama, ‘ The
Absent-minded Beggar; or, for Queen and
Country,’ which broke out at the Princess’s, a
‘respectable middle-class’ theatre in Oxford-st.
The heroine of this up-to-date agony was hand-
some Lillah McCarthy, who came to Australia as
next-to-leading lady in the Wilson-Barrett co. and
didn’t altogether agree with Maud. Jeffries’con-
stitution, seemingly.
“The only civil servant to volunteer for the
second Vic. contingent is Lieut. Christie, of the
Army Service Corps, who is a telegraph operator
in private life. Christie is a well-known Vic.
rowing man, and a prominent member of the Yarra
Yarra club.
“A small suburban dressmaker, who won her
State-school certificate before she turned her
’prentice hand to needle - and - scissors, asked
scribe’s opinion yesterday re a circular soliciting
subscriptions to the ‘Tommy Atkins Fund.’
‘Who’s this Tommy Atkins ?’ said recipient, won-
deringly. ‘And,’ she continued, suspiciously,
‘ what’s this about his girls and his widows and
his kids ? ’
“ Bendigo’s fame has been its own undoing.
There is a ‘coming ’ warbler in Melbourne who is
actually ashamed to own up to being a Ben-
digonian. She has gone round to all her friends and
asked them to keep her birthplace a dead secret.
People are weary of Bendigo singers.
“ At a certain fashionable dress-makery in Mel-
bourne, the Bohemian afternoon-tea is a leading
feature of the business. Girls are given carte
blanche to make appointments with their men
friends there after their fitting-on operations, and
coffee and cigarettes, likewise other things drink-
able, help to enliven the tUe-a-t&tc. Such things
appear as extras on the bill.
“ Melb. Women’s Hospital has gained such evil
notoriety among medical practitioners that only
one application was received for the appointment
of a resident surgeon. An extension of time and
further advertisement brought the same candi-
date, but no more, and the appointment was made
in dead silence. After the treatment of l)r.
Crowley, the masterly inactivity when a patient
was allowed to die on the mat, and the painfully
moral attitude of the committee towards un-
married mothers, people fight shy of what was
once a favorite institution.
“ Of the ten first prizes lately offered to com-
petitors by the National Gallery of Victoria,
.Jewish students won five. A good record for the
ancient race.
“Awful names of some recent fiction (Booth-
by’s an<l Penn’s) ‘The Bed Rat’s Daughter’ and
‘A Crimson Crime.’ They have front places on
every Ijookstall, anti depress me to the verge of
trying to travel in the dog-box. By the way, has
anyone read ‘The Washerwoman's Revenge, or
the Bucket of Blood ’? 1 never saw it, but if no
such book exists it is a grievous oversight on the
part of somebody, and 1 think that somebody is
Booth by.
Vours affectionate! y,
GGOULI-GOCLI.


Dr. M. MACKENZIE’S
THROAT LOZENGES
Are being Imitated.
surf, that the address on the Label
is Leadenhall-st., London.
— • —
Australasia: C. E. Newman
King-St., SYDNEY.
TIXZS TEST ODE"
IS IN THE DRINKING
AND
IT CAN BE TESTED FREE
THEREFORE WRITE TO US
For Dainty Sample Tin (a postcard will do) which, will he sent
post free, if when writing you name this Journal.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa is sold by Grocers, Chemists and Stores.
Address: Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, Limited, Sydney.
d
“Don’t drink np all the whisky,” was the Boer
request delivered to the Marfeking garrison in a hollow
bombshell, hut the full significance of that message didn’t
appear in the cable news. The Boers know that the
whisky stored under Col. Baden Powell’s direction pre-
vious to the war was “ D.C.L.” Recognising the stern
necessity for keeping his garrison in good spirits, the
gallant strategist decided to stand or fall by the “D.C.L.”
brand. On the 20th November or thereabouts, Powell
sent a case of the famous Scotch whisky (black bottle) to
the disheartened enemy, since when they have many
times renewed the attack with their tongues hanging out.*
Pure blood is essential to
good health.
Drink ZETZ-SPA WATER,
and you will have long life.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CANE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney.
sd
MELBOURNE: 269 COLLINS ST.
SYDNEY: 4 HUNTER ST.
Adelaide, Auckland, £c.
Before taking: your Tickets to
Europe, New Zealand, Tasmaniaor
elsewhere, write lor “Travellers’
Gazette” and “Sailing List” to
THOS. COOK & SON.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
He was bound to come. That soldier
whose life was saved because the bullet struc
testament inside his tunic has happened again.
Sydney Mail, a few weeks back,
was a case of—Bull, Buller, Bullets. Evidently,
it’s now a matter of —Rob, Robber, Rob
One of Sydney’s hard old L.O.L. fossils
arranging for a trip to the old land e
gruffly to book by the s.s. Rome, on account of the
vessel’s name.
Editor and Proprietor Campbell, at 82
years of age, and after 50 years of country jpu*
nalism, has allowed his last bantam, the g
(N.S.W.) Free Press to go extinct, lhe usual
c omplaint killed it.
Judge Hartley Williams (Vic.) who is
going on twelve months’ leave again, is not likely
to come back from England. He’s lame, and is
getting old, and has never been in good humor
since Madden was made C.J. over his head.
A cable report comes along to the effect
that that very lamentable poet, the Marquis of
Lome, is to be the first Governor-General of
Federated Australia. This country already suffers
the heat and burden of sewer-bard Fitzgibbon
and Lome is, to all intents, another Fitzgibbon.
Barrister Weigall (Melb.) is going to
Europe for six months with his wife (daughter of
late Governor Hamilton, of Tasmania). Weigall s
father-in-law was the most popular Secretary lor
Ireland ever appointed. Like Red vers Buller, his
stay in the country made him a Home Ruler.
Then he was kicked upstairs and made a Gover-
nor, for being too beastly honest.
Agent-General Cockburn’s knighthood was
received in grim silence in S.A.. When the
Radical doctor headed the progressive party in
S.A. he was a deadly opponent of titles, and once
actually objected to the prefix “Hon.” before his
name. It will always stand to Cockburn s credit,
however, that he invariably voted on the side of
the people. But that was the old Cockburn.
Rev. Fitchett, Apostle of Berlud, back
from Europe, tells an interviewer that, among
other offers of literary work, he had one from a
leading firm of publishers to write a volume on
“ The Reverses of the British Army.” But the
good man was horrified ; he couldn’t think of
writing of the nation’s reverses. And as many
other alleged historians feel the same way, history
as she is perpetrated in books is often a quaint
institution.
ON THE BEST AUTHORITY.
“ But I can’t believe that about her !”
"Oh, it’s true I She told me herself—in con-
fidence.”
Rev. Sam. Wilkinson, buried the other
day in Rookwood Cemetery, was the last sur-
vivor (he died at 86) of the historic little band of
missionaries who laid the foundations of Wes-
leyanism in Australia. He officiated all over the
continent, and was one of those present when
Gov. Bourke directed the laying out of Melbourne
according to surveyor Russell’s plans.
Theodore Fink got overboard in such
haste from the leaky craft of the new Victorian
Ministry that he probably spoiled his own future
chances. The M‘Lean Government may be hope-
less, but even in the brief career of a hopeless
Government a man may achieve something which
will mark him out for future office. Fink got out
so hurriedly that he hadn’t a chance to distinguish
himself in any way. A man may make a useful
name while fighting a lost battle, but he can’t
make much by running away the day before the
battle.
Sudden Solomon, S.A.’s very temporary
Premier, is reputed to dye his brain thatch. “ The
hon. gentleman changes his opinions once a year,’
once said the Sudden One to Kingston. “ The
hon. gentleman,” replied Kingston, “changes the
color of his hair every morning.” It wasn’t a very
brilliant retort, but it might pass on the spur of
the moment. If only sneers and interjections had
to be pub on the notice-paper, like questions, so
that the defendant could have time to work up his
reply, Parliament would be a lot more brilliant
than it is.
Curtain, a former member for Carlton, in
Vic. Assembly, once struck a responsive chord in
the breasts of his hearers when he said : “ We are
all tending towards the same gaol.” Perhaps he
meant “goal,” but it was in the boom days, and
an immense proportion of Melbourne people were
tending towards gaol—or should have been.
John Nicholls, or “John the Cashman,”
dead the other day, was one of the oldest publi-
cans in N.S.W., and with the late James T.
Fallon bought, in the early Fifties, from a black-
fellow the famous basket of gold specimens from
what was afterwards known as the Black Range
Goldfield, near Albury. They gave <£soo for the
basket and spent a hundred times that in develop-
ing the Black Range. But Nicholls made more
out of hotels, and Fallon out of wine, than either
made out of the Range, after all. Nicholls was
73 at death.
The Boer army has no uniform—only its
brown suit and its slouch hat and its gun. Old
veteran General de Kock, who fell in one of the
early battles, went to the war in the black tail
coat and the tall black hat that he wore at church
on Sundays. His bulky belltopper blazed all
day in the forefront of the battle till at dusk the
Absent-Minded Beggars brought him down with
three mortal wounds. Then when the hill was
carried by storm, they found what looked like an
aged Methodist preacher dying in a mud-hole
beside a crippled gun and a big pile of dead.
Almost the first telegram of congratulation
which came to Premier Seddon after the M.L.
election, was a condensed yell in three words :
“Hooray, hooroo, hooroosh.” Two others were
about equally brief: “ Good old Dick,” said one,
and the other “Long may you wave.” But
19-stone Seddon is almost too heavy to wave
now. A Maori supporter of George Fisher was so
excited over his small tin god’s return, that he
rushed to a newspaper office and put in an ad vt. :
“To my frien Fisher—you wonder, no eomitee,
no talk, no noting, win heesee, me your flien.”
There is considerable diversity of opinion
as to the pronunciation of Manger, the name of
the new Footscray (Vic.) M.P. :
Sergeant-at-Arms of Tas. Assembly
is an gentleman who looks as if he had stepped
out of “MaMie
Rosette ” after
playing the old
warrior who is
always telling
you that his
“other side” is
the sound one.
Hitherto he has
enjoyed the
munificent em-
olument of £75
a year. The
other day it
was proposed
to raise his
“screw ” to
■£loo. Where-
upon up rose
Gaffney, of
Lyell, and sez
he : “ I’ll go
one better, Mr.
Speaker I’ll
be willing to let
the poor old gentleman
have ,£lOO a year, and let
us go and get somebody else
to do the work. It has been pitiful, sir, to hear
the poor old gentleman cough therein his chair
night after night while the influenza has been
bad.” The House agreed to raise the Sergeant’s
salary by 9s. 7|d. a week. The other night the
crowd in the gallery began to applaud when some-
thing was said, and Speaker Brown, in his most
majestic way, charged the Sergeant-at-Arms to
clear the gallery if there was any exhibition of
feeling. But the Sergeant preserved a dignified
composure, and took no notice of the command.
He is deaf and didn’t hear it, and the Speaker
knew he didn’t. A quarter-of-an-hour after a
member went over and told him what had hap-
pened, and he seemed quite surprised. Gaffney
spoke of somebody else “ doing the work.” The
“ work ” consists in putting on a gorgeous blue-
and-silver-lace uniform every afternoon, and at 4
o’clock bawling at the Assembly door, “ Gentle-
men of the House of Assembly, the Honorable
Mr. Speaker enters the House.”
Chief-Justice “ Johnnie ” Dodds, of Tas.,
has only got a K. 8., and the thing loses half its
value by having nothing to show for it on the
neck and breast. Knight Bachelor is the lowest
order of knighthood —and that’s saying a lot.
It’s generally given to men who haven’t earned
it —which is also saying a lot, for few men can
avoid earning a thing that comes so easily. The
office is knighted, not the man.
THE ANXIOUS SEEKER.
LOAFER : “ Please could you spare me a trifle,
sir, I’ve been lookin’ for work all day.”
T OFF: “ Perhaps I could find you a job.”
LOAFER: “ Oh, I ain’t lookin’ fer a job fer me-
self; it’s fer the wife.”
John Foster Yesey Fitzgerald (or John
Foster, as he is known in Australian political his-
tory), whose death at 81 is announced, was the
only Colonial Secretary of the Australian group,
who, when a change of Constitution was at hand,
voluntarily resigned his office and thus forfeited
a life pension of <£,>oo a year. Foster was
Vic. Col.-Secretary at time of Ballarat riots.
There would have been no riots if his conciliatory
policy had not been reversed by Governor Hotham,
yet somehow public opinion held Foster largely
responsible for that unhappy episode. He was
also Treasurer in O’Shan,assy’s seven-weeks’
Ministry in ’57, which was practically his last ap-
pearance in Australian politics.
A political amenity from Wellington
(M.L.) Evening Post
T> G. KNIGHT
Is a Gagged Political Victim,
NOT A LIAB.
GERTRUDE S. KNIGHT.
Knight, a sailmaker, contested one of the Wel-
lington suburban seats at the recent election. He
came out at the foot of the poll, and lost his de-
posit. Also, he lost his temper and called John
Hutcheson (“Jack The Rigger ”) various animals,
wherefore there was an action for libel, and an
arbitration, resulting in Hutcheson’s favor. Now
his loving wife backs up her oppressed old man, as
a loving wife should.
Josiah Thomas, who, when Premier Lyne
brought down his second contingent proposal,
stood up almost alone to say that the war was no
less disgraceful and unjustifiable than ever it was,
is, curiously enough, about the most typical
Englishman in N.S.W. Assembly. An assayer
and mine-manager fresh from England, he took
the miners’ side in the ’92 strike at Broken Hill,
and, though the least combative of men, was
pushed to the front. Several times it has been
locally suggested that he should be dropped (he
represents the most uncompromising Barrier
Labor constituency) in favour of a louder and
hornier-handed person; but his courage and
honesty have always saved him, and he now
holds one of the safest seats in N.S.W.
A reminiscence of Windeyer : Some years
ago, when he was travelling up North,
his party found themselves having a
<<, late dinner in a dining-room with
doors that squeaked horribly.
The Judge’s bedroom opened off
the dining-room, and the
Judge stood aghast at the
thought of those dreadful
doors squeaking in that
hair-raising way half the
night and early in the
morning. With his
mouth full of cold
mutton and pickles
he shook his head
sadly and said, “I’m
sure we’ll get no
sleep to - night ! ”
Suddenly his clouded
countenance cleared,
and he asked the
girl if they had
p enty of butter in
the house. The
girl assured him
they had, where-
upon the Judge
fell upon his din-
ner and xte it
with joy. When
he had finished, and
the small girl started
to clear away, she
saw a sight that con-
vinced her the erratio
occupant of the Bench
was hopelessly mad.
Windeyer had
taken all the butter-
dishes over to the
door and was rub-
bing the cow-grease into the
hinges with all his might and
grunting vigorously as he did
so. Then he started to work
the door back and forwards
with the energy of a lost soul
striving for a drink. The
weather was hot, and the but-
ter ran down and trickled on
to the floor, and the Judge
stamped through it and spread
it all about the premises.
When the butter was worked
in nicely the squeaking stopped,
and Windeyer buttered the
other doors. When they were
all fixed up, and all the butter
in the house was swilling about
the floor and running out of the
hinges and dripping from his
Honor’s sleeves, he turned with a beam-
ing countenance to the rest of the party
and remarked, “There! thank goodness
we’ll get some sleep to-night now ! ”
Plain Clothes Constable Coakley, one of
the poetical policemen of Collingwood, was once
directed by the Chief Commissioner to ascertain
the paternity of a certain infant. Coakley found
the job a mighty one, for the mother was a girl
with a large heart, and at last the poet was forced
to admit himself beaten. “ I have the honor to
inform you that I have made every endeavor to
discover the father of the offspring of the girl
Polly Andrews,” he wrote, “but I have been
unable to do so. In my opinion it was a syndi-
cate.”
The dull, respectable Duke of Westmin-
ster parted company with his enormous proputty
a few days ago. Death dragged him away from
his real and personal estate. He was the son and
heir of the rich Marquis of Westminster, who died
30 years ago in an odor of stinginess ; and because
the old man had bequeathed him so much ready
money, and the value of his London land and
houses was increasing every year, Her Gracious
Majesty made a duke of him. Subsequent events
proved Westminster’s fitness for the new dignity.
He was a pompous follower of Gladstone until
Home Rule for Ireland came on the board, and
then the bloated millionaire decided to save the
Empire by joining the Liberal-Unionists. Also,
he “ turned dog ” on an oil-painting of Gladstone
which had been painted to his ducal crder by
Millais, or some other highly-expensive artist.
He violently sold the work of art, or raffled it, or
jumped on it, or turned its face to the wall, or
otherwise notified his disapproval of the Grand
Old Man. After which the tottering Empire felt
strong on its legs again. Apart from his being
very rich and terribly angry with Gladstone, the
Duke of Westminster was famous for nothing
save a triumphant racing career. He bought fine
racehorses and bred others from them, and was
the most Derby-winning dook on record. And
when his unrivalled gee-gee Ormonde had gone
wrong in its wind, the proud owner sold it to the
Argentine Republic for <£30,000, and the pur-
chaser made a very bad deal, inasmuch as
Ormonde’s breathing grew rapidly worse. This
shows how a duke may be more advanced than a
republic in some ways.
MEACHARN.
Now, M'Eacharn’s a Knight
In response to his prayer,
It is apropos, quite—
Just another Knight mayor !
A few remarks from us might aid yer
To keep your seat for Footscray, Major.
They’ll call you “ bore ” —a “ reg’lar auger; ”
Don’t bore for water, Mr. Morger ;
And list, don’t wear top hat or “ flogger,”
They won’t stand that in Footscray, Mogger
You’d shut up pubs if they allowed yer,
And banish barmaids, Mr. Mowjer ;
No doubt there’s people would applaud yer,
But not at Footscray, Mr. Mawjer !
Work for the workers, then we’ll wager
You’ll keep on writing “ M. P.,” Major.


-The Favorite and Best Summer Drink
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER
SEE THAT
YOU GET IT.
Look for
Genuine
FRANZ JOSEF
on Neck Label.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
sa
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites,
rj , Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
dsa
Aboriginalities.
: s “ a w e ® ,j um P in g ( B ->
18/11/99). I can back “ Via’s ” statement that
they do jump. I once laid-out a 4ft. black near
BOOKMAKERS’ JARGON.
CACKLER MOSSES : “ I lay—I lay on the field—the field—I lay on
the field.” (Just then the “ outsider” felt bored, and he LAY
with a vengeance.)
Mt. Saddleback, Tas., and on returning some
time after gave the supposed “ corpse ” a toss out
of the way with a stick, whereupon it jumped at
me, clearing quite 3ft., repeating the spring
several tunes before I despatched it. It was the
wrong snake ! I found the real corpse close by.
* * * *
Scene : Leichhardt cattle-station veran-
dah. Time: Evening (mosquitoes pretty bad).
Mrs. Squatter (who has some Naice people from
Norman ton staying with her): “Now, Jacky,
get the fuel. ’ Jacky: “Eooell Baal me know
that one. Mrs. S.: “ You know, Jacky, you
put it on the verandah every evening.” Jacky:
“ Pu tten fooel longa verandah ! Eooel 1 Baal
J ne • Mrs. S. : “Oh, go on, Jacky: you
know—fuel to make a smoke, hunt mosquitoes.”
Jacky (disgustedly): “Why you no yabber bul-
lock-dung liket always?”
“ Yarran ” : “ Castro ” (B. ll/ll/’99)
is a bit astray. First, there are no cookies
10 ? m^es of Cobar—they are
f, 11 graziers.” A “selection” in
that Cod-forsaken district consists
of 16 sq. miles of country (10,240
acres) and this, in good seasons, i
has been known to carry lo| j
goats—about a goat per 1000
acres. “Castro’’says the horse
chased the lamb across
the gully. No gullies
within 200 miles of Cobar;
the country is one huge
plain. Again, gullies im-
ply water, and there
is no water within 200
miles of Cobar. (In
fact there is hardly
anything agricultu-
ral except dust and
perdition within 300
miles of Cobar.)
When I lived in the
district we had instead
of baths a reciprocal
curry-combing club. But
there is gold there, and
copper ; also, Fat-men
and miners, sharks
and sharebrokers,
publicans and sin-
ners, Banks and
Mortgage Com-
panies — the
proud mortga-
gees of millions
of acres of barren
Dkskrt.
“Luggan”: Re biting-horses (8., 4/11/’99).
Here’s a cure. Put on three or four coats so that
the horse’s teeth won’t hurt you, and on the out-
side coat-sleeve sprinkle about an oz. of cayenne
pepper. Then let Pegasus have a bite—and he is
cured : that is, if he does not kill himself sneez-
mg. You can also oure gate-opening horses by
tying a piece of cayenne-sprinkled flannel on the
gate in such a way that the horse will have to put
his nose on it when trying to open. The pepper
will do the rest.
A recent experiment
by Prof. Grassi, of Rome,
seems to show the mos-
quito-connection of malaria
rather well. Some miles
out of Rome is a notor-
iously malarial village.
Grassi hired a cottage
there, wherein numerous
cases of the disease had
occurred, carefully ex-
cluded mosquitoes by
means of perforated zino
window and door screens,
and for eight nights, in the
height of malarial season,
lived there in company
with a family consisting of
father, mother and five
children from 1 to 9 years
of age. Nobody was al-
lowed to leave the protected
rooms between sunset and
sunrise. The windows
being left open except for
the perforated screen, all
were exposed to the night
air, and only the ordinary
water of the locality, un-
filtered, was used for
drinking. No case of
malaria occurred among
Grassi’s people, although
during their stay several
P /sons sleeping unprotect-
ed 100yds.„ away were at-
tacked. Grassi states that
the .malarial mosquito—a
species of Anopheles—only
bites between sunset and
sunrise.
* * *
Near New Norfolk,
Tas., old hands still point
out the spot where a famous
“ bolter” from his assigned
service made his home in
the bush. He raided sur-
rounding farms for fowls,
P'R S , goats, &c., carrying
them off alive to his lair in
the scrub. He had quite a
natty little homestead, and
ran it on the silent system
as a precaution against dis-
covery Dogs, pigs, fowls,
and all live things about
the place were rendered
dumb by surgical opera-
tion.
” * m
She was the divorced wife of a publican
(married to a squatter, who was a power in the
neighborhood), and, thinking nothing was locally
known about her past, she treated all the women
she came in contact with as inferior characters—
A nt^m ne . nig lt afc the Grobung Hospital Ball
Audibly observing that things would be much
ihaff . B .l lSfaCtory , the rooin wer © divided off so
th ? second-class people should be kept to
litt e ml'p’ S - he was , u “ erl y Aattened-out by
little Mrs. Ryan s remark in a clear voice that
penetrated to every corner of the room— “We
may be second-cfass people, Mrs. , but thank
God, we am t second-Aanrf ! ”
.* * * *
“ Pelican Plenty of pure-white wild
foTwtv ll^ Douglas station, up Ravenswood
(y.) way. But they are not pure dingoes. Thev
” li e ’ t t ‘ e n r , f burk howl > but make a compromise of
the matter, with curious effect.
YES-NO PROMPTINGS.
" Don’t you think you have had enough
already? ”
“Yesh! (Hie). But jush when I THINKSH I
gosh enough I FEEL'SH I wantchshomemore.
(Hie).”
“ Howee ” : Apropos the much-talked-of-
N.S.W. Land Boilers Act, there is a mill on the
Clarence River in which the boilers and engines
are so “dickey ” that local whites will not work
there for love or beer or money. However, that
doesn’t prevent the awful thing working. This is
a free country, thank God, and the Hindoo is
plentiful, and he knows practically nothing about
boilers, so he stokes away gaily and never dreams
that he is dancing on the thin crust of in
particular. ■ 3
• * * •
“H.P.S.”: To cure a biting horse ; boil
a leg of mutton, and let him sink his teeth in that
—hot! He'll bite no more. [N.B. This is the
40th cure up to date. After ten more cures the
biting-horse competition will be off.— Ed. B.]
Simpson contracted with aboriginal
Tommy Tinboy” to dig a drain for £12 and
tucker for camp. Whereupon dusky Thomas
clapped on every adult black within a
radius of 30 miles. First day, bag of
flour, cwt. of beef, and heaps of tea
and sugar went out. Next day,
“ de boss ” turned up, and informed
employer that work was suspended
as there was ‘ ‘not enough tucker.”
Then more flour, beef, tea, and
sugar went out, and so on for six
weeks. Then a friend called on
Simpson. “That’s a big drain
those darkies Lave been at for
you,” said he. “ Yes,” said S.,
I wish to goodness it was
finished.’’ “Finished I” said the
friend—“ why, it’s been finished
this fortnight!Then Simpson
said things.
* * *
The Fassifern line was just
opened, and the flag-bedizened
first train,. loaded with Banana-
land big wigs, was struggling up
a grade when, after a wild screech
from the engine, it suddenly
came to a full stop, and the
mighty ones alighted to see an
old cookie in the middle of the
track waving a red handkerchief
at the driver. “ Look yer ’ere,” he
shouted, “ I ain’t a-goin’ to ’ave no
more o this. Your blankefcy ballast-train set fire
to iny 40-acre calf-paddick last night, so yer can
take your flaming railway out o’ this to where ver
damn well like ! ” J
* * * *
“Asmodeus”: Be “risky” boilers, the
youthful “engineer” of a BLawkesbury River
steamer used regulatf y to weight down the safety-
valve when full pressure was on. Said the noise
of the escaping steam was a blamed nuisance I
• • * «
A Queensland black-bird captain tells of a
curious form of funeral rite current at Santo, New
Hebrides. The body of the dead man is placed
on a platform in front of the residence of de-
ceased. Ihe wife is supposed to hang herself—
out of respect .to the manes of the departed. The
body is allowed to putrefy until all the bones are
clean. Ihe bones are then used in the prepara-
tion of weapons of war.
* * •
Yeiilla : Be camel’s drinking powers
( ‘ Ireb.,” B. 19/8/’99). I have known a mob of
12 empty my 350-gallon tank, and then the
Afghan in charge grumbled because I wouldn’t
draw more water, as the camels did not seem
satisfied.
Re our friend and brother, the crow :
Dear Bulletin.— The statement made by “P.F.W.”
(B. 30/12/’99) that crows, when poisoned, “ take a draught
of water, then fly away to a tree, grip a small branch with
their claws, and swing themselves head-down until they
vomit the lot ” (poisoned wheat V), is not only absolutely
untrue and absurd, but puerile and silly as well. There
is no Australian bird whose habits I am more intimate
with than with those of Corvus australis. In its
native state, 0. a. is extremely interesting; in
captivity, it is grotesquely charming. It is ever
true, faithful and affectionate to anyone who is
kind to it, but violently vindictive and revengeful
to those who torment it—whether such tormentor be
man or beast. Bees the crow always regards with a hatred
as implacable as it is amusing. Surely every schoolboy
has seen a crow poisoned. When poisoned the crow be-
takes itself to a tree—preferring, always, a dead one.
When the first spasms seize the poor thing (I love crows
—also lizards) it outspreads its wing 3 and gives vent to
one loud, prolonged, and unnatural croak. It is immedi-
ately surrounded by every crow in the neighborhood ;
and their distress is increased in proportion to that of
the poisoned bird. With an agony even greater than
that of l heir dying companion they respond to its every
cry, and emphasise each of its agonised contortions. And
when their beloved friend is silent in death their cries
are like the wails of souls in distress. They fly high in
the air, and, returning again and again to the body of
their dead, make the locality dismal beyond imagination
with their wails of distress. Hundreds—sometimes
thousands—of crovvs appear in a locality which, one short
hour before, contained, only dozens. No other Ausl ralian
bird, with the exception of the sulphur-crested cockatoo,
manifests so much distress as the Australian crow does at
the death of one of its companions ; and no bird in the
world but the Australian crow carries its defunct com-
panion away from the scene of its death. Asa scavenger
the Australian crow is j-ar excellence the most valuable
bird in Australia. Asa noxious-insect destroyer it has
no equal. In the best of seasons on the Bogan, Mount
Harris, Bourke, and Brewarrina districts (N.S.YV.), were
it not for this much-despised and legally-outlawed bird,
every blade of grass would be swept away; but imme-
diately the destructive grasshopper appears in millions,
the crows appear in tens of thousands and exterminate
them. Every squatter knows this.—H. J. M'Cooey.
“ Werrimee ” : I once carried a sucking-
pig four miles in a thick three-bushel bag, and
dumped him into a cocky’s sty. There was no
hole or opening of any kind in the bag, the mouth
being tied up, so am prepared to swear the little
grunter didn’t see, yet in a couple of hours he
came trotting back. Scent or instinct?
* * * *
A South Queensland paper describes
mournfully how its editor saw aboriginals manu-
facturing boomerangs with a spokeshave t lb
turned out they were being made in hundreds, in
this degenerate civilised fashion, at a shilliug a
boomerang. And travellers gaze on a nigger with
a spokeshave and fancy they’re looking at a noble
savage.
» * * »
“ Kooka ” : Out shooting, recently, called
on a new-ehum coekie and enquired if there were
any kangaroos in his paddocks. “ Well,” said he,
“ I haven’t seen any lately, but, one night last
month, they came right up to the house here and
killed a lot of fowls.” His “kangaroos” were
dingoes.
A TERRIBLE EXPERIENCE.
THE PREACHER (delivering impromptu address to
back-blocks audience) : “ Above all things,
never lose faith or abandon hope.”
LISTENER (unable any longer to contain his feel-
ings): “ Them’s my sentiments. Why, look
ere. I was once in the water for half an hour
off Cape Horn—roughest place in the world-
midwinter-40 miles from land—not a human
being in sight — an’ yet ’ere I am, alive an’
we ll”
THE PREACHER : That was indeed a thrilling ex-
perience. Yet you never lost hope, and your
faith was rewarded, for you were rescued. ”
LISTENER : “ Rescued be blowed I I 'eard the bell
go for the steerage dinner, so I got out of the
bath and dried myself. The reason why there
was nobody in sight was that I ’ad the bath-
room door shut to keep the wimmin passengers
from seein’ in while I ’ad my wash. They yiv ’
us warm water in the bath, or I wouldn't ’ave
had one at all. ”
HIS REASON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
Neither handsome nor heroio
Lying all the day a-bed,
With the patience of a stoic,
And a door-plate in his head,
Looked the cross-eyed man from Scrubby just inveigled
from the dead.
He was hollow-eyed and shrunken,
And in health took few delights
That were neither gross nor drunken
Judged by our superior lights,
And he often spent his Sabbath putting low disputes to
rights.
Yet admiring fellow-creatures
And the press with ardor vast
O er the most alluring features
Of his deed a glamor cast—
Pete had saved his mate, and borne himself the fury of the
blast.
Now the hero was much better;
Many people came to him
For the spirit and the letter
Of his wondrous tale and grim,
And he told the yarn to order, but with painful lack of
vim.
Yes, a cap-piece floored McCarty,
And the coolest man of five
Ran to save the injured party
Whilst the fuse burned in the drive.
Then she “bust.” For weeks the hero didn’t know he
was alive.
Asked a lady from the city
Why he acted as he did,
And the man’s contemptuous pity
Lowered a disrespectful lid.
“ What yer think ?” he asked. “ Why, bless yer, ma’am,
Mack owed me har/er quid ! ’’
E. DYSON.


For Blight, Inflammation, Granulation and
all affections of the eye use an infallible remedy. Hick-
son’s Celebrated Eye Water has for many years proved
its worth. Effectual when doctors fail. Perfectly harm-
less. Highest testimonials. Post free to any address,
2s. 6d. R. Hickson, Rockdale, N.S. W. Agents wanted.*
The New Zealand Fire and Marine Insurance
Co., whose head-office for N.S. W. is at No. 81 Pitt-street,
Sydney, is the largest colonial Fire and Marine Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of
£400,000 is invested in the colonies. Lowest rates and
prompt settlements.*
Solid
Silver
Half-dozen Sterling Silver Teaspoons, 21s
mmmuj
•^-T<a-Spooi)S.
No more electro goods tQ wear like brass. Solid Silver Tea-spoons, English Hall marked and
of the finest Sheffield finish—a line that will wear a lifetime. Medium (useful size! 21s
the half-dozen.
All our Goods are
marked in plain figures.
FAIRFAX ® ROBERTS,
V^.23
APPOINTED VICEREGAL JEWELLERS,
HUNTER STREET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
Hotel
Australia
Bates from 12/6 per Day,
»r £3 10s. per week,
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
For the Summer Season
The innumerable visitors who have stayed at “ The
Australia” during Summer months, have nothing
but praise for this famous Hotel. Ladies with
families obtain every comfort and attention at
a very reasonable cost. The rooms, furniture and
appointments of “ The Australia ” are unsurpassable.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Oastlereagh St., Sydney.
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
The late CHARLES DALLEY, son of William
Bede Dailey, killed whilst hunting in Eng-
land, and interred at Sydney last week.
Photo, by Falk, Sydney.
In Giles’records of his ’75 S.A. to W.A.
expeditions he mentions that he often saw at
native camps what looked like a series of babies’
graves—the soil scooped out and heaped on each
side. “ These are the bachelors’ beds,” he writes
—“2O, 30, and 40 sometimes in a row. On top of
each raised portion of soil two small fires are kept
burning in lieu of blankets.” How’s that for
luxurious niggerdom ?
Northern Bishop
Stone - Wigg asseverates
that the Papuans could eat
ship - biscuits the whole
afternoon. Asserts also
that they are very fond of
ants —not the small sort,
but big flying ants, the
size of a cockchafer. They
delight in slugs, but their
favorite relish is somebody
else’s pet pig. They are
too fond (he continues) of
their own little pet pig to
eat it, but they will eat
that of anybody else. The
pigs and the old men are
the great difficulties in
the way of the mission-
aries. The pig can burrow
anywhere ; can climb
through the roof and fall
in. The old men say that
the missionaries upset all
fair fighting. “A man
could see a spear, but
could not see down a gun.”
The native phrase for
“ Who is passing ? ” runs,
“ What to eat goes there?”
There is a little island,
near the mission station,
called Dinner Island —so
called because 20 China-
men were shipwrecked
there, and were brought
in, one by one, to meet
culinary calls, as required.
* *
“ I remember,” said
the old bullocky, “ I was
once yoked to a cedar log
from eight in the morning
till four in the evening,
and could not get a budge
out of it. I put the tape
on it then and found that
I had stretched it four-
foot - six ! ” Then the
other perjurers gave it
best.
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
ti.ons voluntarily submitted, whether sent, by post or
handed in, and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Stockman : Will return “ A Fair Deal ” when
you send us full address F.d.C. : Interest doesn’t
justify length Gentleman with illegible signature who
writes re Coupons: Bulletin has serious thoughts of
giving the coupon question a rest .... A.N. (Minyip) :
VVon'derful how violent an otherwise gentlemanly person
can become when somebody doesn’t agree with his
jingoism ..J.G.D. : Not worth wasting excitement on
tliift paper Steve \V. : “ Anchored in bottomless con-
ceit ” sounds well but where there’s no bottom there
can’t he any anchorage E.J.P. : Well enough versed,
but otherwise weak and conventional VV.M.F. :
“ Gumbo” has good touch s, but, as a whole, is hardly
up to the mark Het T. : None of the verse is good
enough, though No. 2 has a good idea and some tolerable
stanzas. “ Gold ” story is not amiss, but would require
condensing. “Operation,” possibly too ghastly. Will
consider both T.Q.R. : First verse weak. May
excise, and use the rest Watts: Good clean-cut
work. Will probably use .. . .Stingo: Probably an
oversight; what was it entitled? W.S. : Thanks
J.O.M : “ Plurry Irishman” joke old J.S. : “Re
John’s Letter” good, logical article, hut treads on much-
trodden ground .....Damon : Damn on ... J.S.T. : Obstet-
ric joke too obstetric. Kanaka joke an old and much-
objected-to friend R.A.Iv. : Part of your “Ode to
Stewed Plums” herewith on general principles :
... Cousin German : Kindly send in the dog’s evidence
as .well as your own ex parte statement. By-the-bye,
‘ which dog did the kennel belong to in the first place ?
Salome : Pretty, but too hazy. Even a pretty poem
should try to be about something, or about something
that looks like something. J. McA. (Pictoii): Ghastly
joke. Nomad: Very good verse. Will publish..
Ben Sun : Will print “ Two Diggers,” though metre
required to be cleared and stumped in places. A
Briton : You want to know what right we have “ being
under the Union Jack” to write a's we do. Well, is it
necessary to be a liar to live under the Union Jack
Amen : “ Boer ” “ sure,” “ Boer ” “ gore ’’—what sort of
rhymes are these? ... Pat: Old yarn Hugh F. :“I
love my Country ”is truth without inspiration.. . Rough
rider : Pars mostly' rough also A Liar (or else Lover-
writing verv bad) of Freedom and Truth (Ballarat): You
“ expend a 2d. stamp to say The Bulletin is a traitor.”
Well We say you are a fool and a bigoted ass and a tough
sheep and a yellow dog with 1800 smells. And the wild
joy of the thing is that you'll have to pay6d. to hear
us call you these things .....Bendigo: Thanks... Austrnl-
Briton : Not novel enough for space. And “the i
THE ABSENT-MINDED BEGGAR.
century " hasn’t “ been ushered in.” It doesn’t “ ush ”
till Ist January, 1901 G. M‘A. (Maldon): Dunno
Kelpie: Good S.S.: Will print “The Nymph.”
Judas Jones : Thanks for letter and good wishes .. F.P.
(Bendigo): Gleams of genius mixed with huge chunks
of commonplace Lome Ernest: Will print shortly
C.P.Q.0.: Nothing new or striking about idea, and jingle
rather feeble H.P.: Even if you were related to all
“our-best generals,” likewise to Osesar, Pompev, Hanni-
bal, and the Great Captain, your poem boosting up the
infamous and disgraceful Transvaal war would take the
same short-cut to the ash-heap. Bennelong : The tale
wherein a man presses a girl to his breast on a lone beach
at night wants better handling. You make it too crude
THE BENT HORSE.
S WELL: “ I have a good mind to give you in charge for driving such an animal I Look at his
fore legs !”
CABBY: "Oh! Shure he’s all right, mister. He’s thoroughly bint on goin’!”
and suggestive. .....Aggie K.: Won’t do, Aggie ! Dum
S.S. : But what in creation did you expect Thb Bulletin
to do with such an incoherent screech? Neila : We
don’t reply by letter. Verse mechanically all right, but
otherwise no quality Oynio: Too involved and cir-
cumlocutory Ed. S.S. : Sketches humorous on the
whole, but overdone, and otherwise unsatisfactory.
W.M.F.: The “gallant steed” business is one of the
curses of Australian literature Microbe : You can’t
affect us Arthur L. : Bulletin has to say, for the
1000th time, that it wouldn’t take a serial from Shake-
speare N.N.G.E. : Initials come in splendidly for Not
Nearly Good Enough VVamba : What was the title of
it? Kuric : Which only amounts to saying that, if
something had been otherwise, then something else
wouldn’t have been the way it is. It’s a beautiful philo-
sophy—and very cheap Will. B. : Drearier than the
pelican in the wilderness. Topsy : Plenty of spirit, but
great lack of skill. Good promise in it, nevertheless
Crab: Elaborate insult duly received. Have another go
Ben Sun : Doubtful about “ Simpleton ” —though it’s
somewhat of an improvement on your recent screed
O.A.E. : “ Bricky ”no use to us. Verse ends well, but
otherwise not up Judas J. : “Pome” too long and
thin and weak in the metrical knees. “ Platform,”
humor too obviously pumped-up ; fun should flow
“ Strike,” clever in places, but slumps badly in others.....
Maurice F.K. : Has an artificial ring about it—as if you
didn’t quite believe all that yourself R.W.D. : Idea
not bad, but treatment would require more skill
Eiffa : Have doubts about “Doldrums.” Doubts are the
only things we have now, bar perspiration A.S. (Q.) :
Not ugly verses, but nothing to distinguish them from
the ruck G.A.P. : Might do for illustration Sirius :
Incoherent rant Richard P. : But The Bulletin never
did attack religion, though it goes for the pretence
thereof every time Siva : Will look it up Royt :
The “y” is superfluous ...W.J.O. : To hand
Miriam : Thanks ; but it had been already dealt with
Hit.tite : No, you’re a Missite this time .. . Edwin W. :
Rejected with great warmth Sarsfield : All right
—we’ll have half -a - brick ready for you
Joey: Rather labored jibe F. Morton : Excellent
N. Treble : Metre halts in places on a gouty hoof of rhyme.
... M.M. : “ Christmas in Sydney ” nearly gets there....
J.W. : Some power about it, but plot deficient G.P.8.:
Grievous lack of novelty in “Days of Long Ago.”
Domino: One or two will do Scimitar: Yes
Embryo : One-ton joke to hand R.A. : Theory bad,
and verse none too good. Also, we don’t say farewell to
the 19th century till 31st December, 1900 Narranghi
Boori: You send us our old joke. “ Blue Dingo,” idea
good, but not well worked out T.Q.R. : May do
Watts: Will print “Suicides.” W.M.F.: Have doubts
about “ Gumbo." Gordon Mare : 19th century ends at
midnight on 31st December, 1900 ; 20th century begins a
second later—lst January, 1901 Walget-way : Reads
like a re-hash of Burns Francis W. Fox : Please send
address to editor F.J.O. : To hand. A couple may do.
Give each par. a separate slip, and don’t write on both
sides of the paper G.P.B. : Some skill of versification,
but the moralising is a bit trite. Will consider
Muckai: A bit hysterical and overdone. Shrieking is as
bad upon one side as upon the other Ponder: Add
“ ous”—and there you are ! Billy B. : Very bad till
near the end, where it suddenly improves almost to
middling Norman ns : “Shall England suffer?”
Dunno ! —but our ear suffers muchly from such couplets
as
And now, for dirty filthy lucre’s sake,
The present war unquestionably did make.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.K. : Joke good but not new enough A.S.M. :
Sketch has points about it; joke hasn’t S. : “ Ode to
Digger ”no good. Other suggestions may do.
When Lafayette was in the U.S. two
young men were introduced. He said to one—
“ Are you married ? ” “ Yes, sir,” was the reply.
“ Happy man,” quoth the General. Then he put
the same question to the other, who replied—“ I
am a bachelor.” “ Lucky dog ! ” said the General.
The best essay on matrimony extant.
Bulletin acknowledges receipt of “ The
Wealth of New South Wales,” the third number
of the excellent commercial summary issued
by the Daily Shipping News Co., Sydney.*
The “Linnean Memory Lessons,” else-
where advertised as taught by R. Brown, School
of Arts, Sydney, are highly recommended by
bankers, ministers, teachers and others. Pros-
pectus on application.*
They each had a billiard-room in a small
N.S.W. country town, and this notice was found
nailed to a telegraph-pole, the morning after the
fancy-dress ball: —
“ said last night the coat I wore at the ball
belonged to him. I say he is a lyar all I wore is bought
and payed for and besides that it is my own if this mug
wants any more satisfaction I will give it to him either
for money or marbels.
Ever-droughty Broken Hill broke even its
drought record last year—registered 5'32in., and as
the fall was d i vided among 33 days, nomore than one
shower, resultinginfin., was any real good. Broken
Hill, the silver town, can’t expect a deluge every
year. In ’9B, it had 8‘52i0. during the 12 months ;
and when nearly 2in. of that fell in one day people
waded out to church, reckoning that the end had
come. Only had fallen in the preceding
three years—on 145 days. But the district record
belongs to the “ sixties ” (that was years before
Broken Hill was built), when the stations got
along for a couple of years on 6fin. That was
before rabbits and over-stocking had killed most
of the saltbush.
O stewed plums !
In the beginning of the summer with what delight do we
behold thee.
O stewed plums, thou fraud !
O stewed plums 1
Thou tempteit me with thy richness of hue and thy
beguiling'smell and I do eat.
Thou fraud !
0 stewed plums !
Even when accompanied with plain boiled rice or cool
blane-mange, thy powers are potent and they pain
me.
O stew-ed plums, thou fraud !
O stewed plums !
At the end of the summer when the wintry blasts begin
to blow, how we shudder at the thoughts of thee !
O stewed plums, thou fraud !


V s -J& D\
\ v-
i 1/
i ■*- MSy
/ WOKKING BULL that 'lOOO
// g rJnS“ B hould h0 be“ B®t to aoutb Afnoax
// > su <i4«siS
K imM,
m\w
. Ty
' ~^Slk
liwf
t tr"-
%M£MA
s?; ”«>;s.-<-j<» -j i««{Si
> SsSs^j^gsrS#
* fcgto&Sgr
dsa
, i i I jo£
, c ,•; ; f J\o Wy M'V<^
V| ‘ 0 . SV7«^
/ w. *** ear-
fa
ev«y «#e H . /
VISIONS FROM MELBOURNE.


The Sydney D.T. admits cautiously that “ The Absent-
c* Minded Beggar” may not be, strictly speaking, poetry ;
but says that Kipling could write real poetry if he liked.
“ Wellington (M.L.), Thursday.— Mr. Reid, fa.
Premier of New South Wales, has since his arrival
m Maoriland been visiting the fakes, and
reached Dunediri last night. Interviewed with re-
gard to the dispatch of troops from the Antipodes,
he said the magnificent response by all the Aus-
tralian provinces and Maoriland of sympathy in
the most practical shape will show, to the world at
large that it is a living vital tie which binds the
Empire, and not one of 'sentiment which
exhausts in phrases.”
When he's shouted « Rule Britannia” till he's crooked hi, blooming throat i
w"t-»P -se to Play the g oat,
A J write some stuff that ain’t hysterical or silly.
Cook’s son, dock’s son, son of a cra dle lays _
V
Tut after all the gallery-well, it pays, pays, pays ! V'
It is easy to imagine the ex-Premier of N.S.W. spluttering this out
's. while up to his neck in a mud ba.th.>
N / /X z O
/ y
ymm
“ Mr. Lyne finds'that it\ j
is not easy to obtain car-\ J
tridges by the million, or small\
arms by the thousand,' now\ \
that the demand of actual war\
has come, and after 1 very consider-\
able expenditure, through a long\
period of years, we find
now defenceless against the attack \
of any strong Power.”— Aust. Star.
us
K S
y/ Ap® A. -J I
ss oh,!
«yffl
'y _ MX ™IjV 'SA.lilm
■*■ -»v #5 M lEI
f/j) ■ h 0 Ct
?HIiADFL?HIALAWYERS Xj
£ARLY'CLOSIN(j WFfVH
FJEE . I o
Yes, N.S.W. is an “Absent- V
Minded Beggar ” : but what’a \
the matter with road-metal
When that Russian cruiser arrives.
A .NEW INDUSTRY.
Small Tradesman : “ I’ve called to consult you as to whether
it is time for me to close my shop.”
.Early-Closing Expert: “You’re too late. I have J
\ j us t closed myself according to the Act. /
>. Call to-morrow during legal business hours.”
Ten little nurse-maids
Went to see the fun,
Ten married warriors
Then there was none.
SOME OF “HOP’S” IDEAS, MILITARY AND OTHERWISE.


A. BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Strange to say, the cycle of evolution
seems to bring us back to the beginning in matters
of locomotion; and after the sea-going nations have
held the balance of power for so long a time, the
overland route threatens to take the place again of
the briny one as a means of carriage. The railway,
as far as the old world is concerned, will form the
tentacles with which the boss grabsters cling to
their colonial empires. There are at present
three great routes in prospective : the Trans-
Siberian, dominating the north of Europe and
Asia; the Cape-Cairo, practically the life artery
of the whole of Africa ; and the Berlin -Vienna-
Constantinople-Palestine-Persia railway. The
first Russian, the second British, the third possibly
German.
WA
Me
Cl?
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modem conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. A.. QTJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
ALLAN’S
MELBOURNE
MUSICAL
MAGAZINE.
No. 4. For 1900.
The Finest Number Ever Issued.
PRICE 1/-
OR
POSTED 1/2.
Every lover of popular or
patriotic songs should at once
order a copy of the number
just issued. For quality and
variety it is unequalled by
any other Xmas Musical
Magazine.
Allan’s Magazine contains: —
No. I.—REMEMBER MAJUBA.
No. 2.— SONS OF THE SEA, for
Pianoforte.
No. 3.—WRAP ME UP IN MY OLD
STABLE JACKET.
No. 4.—THE IRISH MESSAGE.
No. S.—YOU SHOW ME YOUR
SLATE.
No. 6.—HUSH, LITTLE BABY,
DON’T YOU CRY, The Great
Child’s Song.
No. 7.— THE COON’S SERENADE.
No. 4.—SING A SONG OF NON-
SENSE.
No. 9.— CAN IT BE LOVE, Waltz.
Founded on the Popular Melodies.
Now obtainable at all Musicsel'.ers throughout
Australasia or from the publishers
ALLAN & CO., Proprietary Ltd.,
276 & 278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Ladies’ & Children’s
Boots Ssjocs
[limir&HOßEa .
ffk u*"" -4
JfemcHELl M
tfjj. di'ill
OXJR
1900
PRK€
LIST.
Containing 32 Pages of Illustrations,
Prices, and Good Reading Matter is
Now Ready for FREE DISTRIL TION.
JP lease Write for a Copy.
We Pay Carriage
per Post, Rail and Steamer to any
Town in N. S. Wales on all Parcels
of Drapery.
Hordern Brothers,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
FOR
Duck shootidg«
always use
CANNONITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried Used Always.
■
OASHMORE GUN IS, SCOTT’S GUNS,
GAME BAGS, GUN OASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
Rackham’s Dog and Cattle
Medicines.
SOLE AGENTS-
iimeiiii cans. < met. p.
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney-
/
\
N
F=S
V.
A. SAUNDERS.
Strong-, Cheap, Reliable Levers. Unrivalled, 20s ;
Silver, 35s ; Hunting, £2. London Keyless Lever,
25s ; Silver, £2 2s ; Hunters, £2 10s.
Solid Gold Chain (Single or Double), £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £4 10s, t'6. 15c. Solid Gold, £5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7,
£B, £lO. Pure Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Mizpah Ivy Leaf and Heart Motto,
12s 6d ; Silver, 4s 6d.
Willi
15c. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies, with
Ivy Leaves, 255. Very cheap.
Latest Style, Solid Gold, Good Luck
Rroocli, 10s 6d. 15c. Gold, 21s.
Gold Post Card Charm, Penny
Stamp, 10s ; Silver Gilt, 5s 6d.
Any Name or Motto Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Heart Links, 12s 6d ;
15c., 255. Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold, 20s, 255; 15c. Gold,
355, £2. Monogram on, 2s 6d
extra. Solid Silver, 6s.
Links, 9c. Gold, 215.; 16c.
Gold, 36s and £2. Silver,
4s 6d.
Other Style, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 16s, 20s.
Silver, 2s 6d, 3s.
/;<
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Heart, 12s od.
9c. Gold, 2 Love Birds, Chain, and
Heart, 10s. Special value.
A. SAUNDERS.
16c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Double-cut Diamond,
£2. Splendid value.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Century Brooch, 15s. Latest Rage.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold 2-Bar Scroll, Diamonds and Sapphires
or Rubies, £2 10s. Very strong.
A. SAUNDERS’
Pearl Set Bird, 8 Bells and Chain Gold
Brooch, 13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 265.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Gold Secret Name Brooch, 15c. Gold,
Diamonds, £2 10s and £B.
Any Name or Motto Free.
Similar Pattern, 255.
Pure Diamond Hand
Rings.
15c., 30s ; 18c., £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s.
Any Name.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s :
16c., 20s, 25s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Opal Band,
17s 6d; 15c. Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, £6 6s, £7 10s,
£8 10s, £los, £l2 10s,
Gold Bracelet, 4 Opals and Pearls, very neat, £2 IBs.
Gold Bracelet, Opal and Rubies, £2 10s.
LATEST LADIES’ RAGE.
Registered “ Gold Sword ” and Spray Brooch, 13 Pearls,
Ruby, or Sapphire, and Diamond, 255.
Without Diamond, 22s 6d. 15c. Gold, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS (Registered).
Good Wish Gold Brooch, 13s 6d ;
15c. Gold, 25s ; Silver, 4s (id.
15c. Gold Wish-Bone and Forget-me-
Nots, only 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and Heart
Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS’
Lucky Wish Bone and Arrow Gold
Brooch, 12s 6d; Ivy Leaf, 10s.
A. SAUNDERS. New Century Gold Brooc
Diamonds and Pearls, 20s.
Gold Brooch, 7 Opals, 14 Pearls, 355.
Bracelets to match, £2 15s.
A. SAUNDERS. Registered 9c. Gold Amethyst
Brooch, 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
KINDLY
CALL.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting- Keyless, 255, 30s, £2
£2 10s, T 3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £ 2 , £3, t’4, £5.
Superior Quality, 16, £7, 18, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
TRY
US.
Gold Envelope
Twopenny Stamp
Charm.
Any Name, 12s fid.
Silver Gilt, 6s fid.
Solid Gold Charm
that charms, 10s 6d.
Procured only at
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 3 Opals,
Sapphires, or Rubies,
4 Diamonds, t‘3and f:4.
Send for Size Card.
18s. Solid Gold, extra
stroup and heavy, one
or three diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
2-Bar Gold Brooch, Red Stones and Pearls, 20s.
Gold Good Luck Bells.
4s 6d. 3s 6d. 2s 6d.
A. SAUADERS,
BIG-B-CXiikSS LBA.DIKTG- JEWELLER & SILVERSMITH,
«w_DISPLAY OF PRESENTS IS A PANORAMA OF LOVELINESS -►
BXS George-atreet (NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYmvrEy
Yon Kotze on a delicate subject :
During the recent Buckley divorce case the Judge re-
marked that it would be a “ terrible and revolting” state
of affairs if the wife were not permitted to refuse cohabi-
tation, after having borne a certain number of children.
Well, I beg to arise on the side of the maligned but
virile Mr. Buckley and humbly ask, what in thunder the
learned Judge expects the poor man to do? He is forced
into a very unprofitable state of celibacy, and, no doubt,
if he runs after strange goddesses he will he pulled up
and sermonised, and dropped in for heavy expenses by
(he same erudite and shocked judiciary. But, apparently,
Platonism doesn’t agree with Buckley, and bigamy is for-
bidden, and adultery leads to maintenance orders and
damages and costs and similar misfortune, and—what is
Mr. Buckley to do?
In the days of the Blavatsky triumphal
progress Professors Huxley and Max Mueller
published many hard sayings about Madame and
her alleged esoteric sciences. But spite of all the
hard sayings one fact seems indisputable: that
certain races of India, whence the lady said she
derived her knowledge, have the power of thought
transference, known as telepathy, over consider-
able distances. There are, as far as the present
writer knows, no records of any force of Sepoys
being surprised during the Indian Mutiny by the
British ; the “secret mail ” always kept the black
men posted as to the white men’s comings and
goings. And in connection with the Nichol-
sen’s Nek surrender of the British it is alleged
that the very day of the disaster —almost the very
hour—rumors were rife in the Native Bazaars
throughout India that thousands of Fcringhees had
been captured by the Boers. The rumor was far
ahead of any telegraphic intelligence. This is
either a great mystery or a great lie.
London Evening News perpetrated' this
on the clay when the first bad news arrived from
South Africa, and London was unduly excited
over its beer, considering the very limited dimen-
sions of the event:
“HAWFUL SLORTER!"
Oh, there’s dreadful news from Ladysmith, where White
is hotly pressed;
The people in the Blank Hotel can’t get a moment’s rest;
Their beauty sleep is broken by the firing of the foe;
And we’ve just heard all about it from the man who runs
the show.
We have pigeongrams from White
That the damage has been slight,
And the ineffective cannonade he’s scorning,
And the man who sells the drinks
Says exactly what he thinks ;
And there’s dreadful news from Ladysmith this morning.
Yes, ere long our gallant army will be numbered with the
past,
For our guns are wretched failures and are hopelessly
outclassed,
And the corpulent head-waiter says his hopes are growing
dim ;
But he’s sure he’d have done better if they’d left the job
to him.
So, despite what White may say,
They’re expecting ev’ry day
That the Transvaal flag the town will he adorning ;
For the way the foeman shoots
Has alarmed the under-" boots
And there’s dreadful news from Ladysmith this morning.
Come, we’ll make a splashy heading for this shocking bit
of “ news ”
(Which is hardly a description of poor Boniface’s views),
For it really doesn’t matter if the tale is rather steep,
If we horrify the public and we make theirflesh to creep 1
Yes, there’s quite a dreadful scare,
For the page has lost his hair,
And the pretty chambermaid has given warning;
And you’ll hear our newsboys shout
Of the coming British rout!
“ Shockin’, hawful noos from Lydysmiff dis mornin’ 1 ”


Government Notices.
Land and Income Tax Office, Custom House,
Sydney, 19th December, 1899.
LAND AND INCOME TAX ASSESSMENT ACT OF 1895.
is hereby given, under section 30 of the above
t ha , r ' Returns of Income received during the
year 18.).) for the purposes of the assessment of Income
JLax tor the year 1900 are required to be furnished to the
Commissioners of Taxation, at their office, on or before
the ird any oj February, 1900, and nil persons who are in
receipt of income, and all persons liable under the pro-
visions of the Act in any representative capacity to
furnish returns for the purposes aforesaid, are hereby in-
formed that (he prescribed Forms of Returns are now
available, and may be obtained (except those for Com-
panies) on application at any Post Office, Police Office ,
Custom House, Railway Station, and the Office of any
Clerk of Petty Sessions in New South Wales, Stamp
p J* lh P'street, Sydney, or at the Taxation
Oj/ice, Custom House , Sydney.
n ,^™i or C ° nl P anie » can be obtained at the Stamp
Dudes Office, Phillip-street, Sydney, or at the Taxation
Office, Custom House, Sydney.
All persons carrying on any business, trade, or pro-
fession on their own account are requi-e.j to furnish In-
come Returns irrespective of the amount of their income •
but no Return of Income is required from any person in
receipt of salary or wages only if the gross annual
amount of such salary or wages does not exceed £2OO.
All employers of labour, whether they themselves are
liable to make Income Tax Returns or not, are required
to furnish to the Commissioners of Taxation the name
occupation, and address of all employes whose salaries
or wages for the year 1899 aggregated £lOO and upwards.
Public attention is called to the fact that
a penalty not exceeding t-yenty pounds is
imposed on any person neglecting to furnish
the Return required of him within the time above
mentioned, and that persons failing to furnish such
Return are not relieved from liability to the penalty by
reason only that they may not have received a notice to
furnish the Return, or that the prescribed Form may not
have been delivered to them.
The attention of owners of taxable lands subject to
mortgage is invited to the necessity for furbishing the
requisite particulars, in order that they may derive Ihe
benefit of the deduction to which they are entitled in
respect of the interest on the mortgage of their lands
including improvements thereon. Without these parti-
culars the Commissioners will be unable to make the
statutory deduction from the tax on the unimproved
values. -
Forms of the prescribed Return may be obtained on
application at any of the above mentioned offices and
should be furnished on or before the 3rd day of February
1900, before mentioned.
N. LOCKYER, 'k i
R. N. JOHNSON, V
L. S. SPILLER, J
Commissioners
of
Taxation.
N.B.—Particular attention is called to the observations
and directions with the Forms of Return.
20 11
Public Notice.'
rfIHE SCHOOL OF MINES," BALLARAT.
This School, with its large staff and extensive
appliances, affords special advantages to students
in Assaying, Chemistry, Geology, Metallurgy,
Mining Engineering, Mine Management, and
Treatment of ’Auriferous Ores.
Duties resumed sth FEBRUARY.
F RFO T AT A RTF, IMA, Director.
HAVE YOU
A BAD LED
'' lt, ' l^ 0l ' r |f, s ( . hat Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
roundtd with inflammation and swollen that when vou
sio e nV V I < f’io flnge i r ,he j." flamed part it leaves the impres-
l,', 1 "* If ’?> under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
l or haps your knees are swollen, the joints being
mat h» f sam f Wlth , the ai,kleB - rollnd which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
!!,ii! 0 v t 0 cont . ,nue wlll deprive you of the power to
walk, You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your ease is hopeless, or
r'rtn v wwi’hj". to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CUKfc, YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
°end”t on ce*for* ** Bno reason ,or not now being cured.
ALBERT'S GRASSUdPPER OINTMENT and FILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs
Hanrft 8 Knee > Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis
p"; 8 ’ a " f V' R, ?" D w ? rr ?- 0f all Chemists, Stores,’
U BFBT ’ ln „ Gr |?‘ 8n,a , ln ’ J /'Sd. per box. Prepared by
AtBEKt /3, Farringdon-streef, London, England
look" f n ''t hi re ! 1 . Bllos -> Sydney. Purchasers sfiould
i reg'stored trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
gi een lal el on « ach box. (Regd. copyright).
dsadsad
MEMORY,
LESSONS
Taught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN.
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectus,
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
School of Arts,
Sydney.
TESTIMONIALS.
fr Tregurtha, Esq., Bank Manager, Daylesford.
; 10 : : •• • It . fastens difficult names and dates, dry
facts and figures in the mind, so clearly that It seems
almost impossible to forget them. ...”
Mr. W. E. Blair, Pyrmont, Sydney : 11 Tt ;,
simplicity itself, and could he. ftsorlndpu s
applied, by the schnfiHfrty nr rh* adranrerl tblmroi-
- 11 ha» «ti equal. ”
Real Gold-Cased JEWELLERY
At Manufacturers’ Prices.
Walking Stlok Brooch, Is Cd.
With Paris Diamonds, 2s 6d.
Qold-Oased Bar Brooch (any name),
Is 6d and 2s 6d.
All the Kage 1
Twin Swallow
Brooch,
with Bell or Stona
Pendant, 2s 6d.
Sterling Silver Watches
(Lady’s or Gent's),
18s 6(1 to £2 10s.
Gold - Cased Watches,
17s 6d. ’
Rolled Gold Watches,
pqual in appearance
to best 18ct. Gold, 10
years’ guarantee,
£2 10s to t'3 16s.
Chain Bracelets, 10
years’ guarantee, 16s
to 20s.
Nickel Watch and Chain,
4s 6d to 10s 6d.
Sterling Silver Chains,
4s 6d to 10s 6d.
Rolled Gold Chains, 6 to
10 years’ guarantee,
10s 6d to 20s.
Wlahbone Brooch, with Parfa
Diamonds, 2s 6d.
TRUE
LOVER
KNOT
BROOCH.
With Heart and Handsome Stone, 2s 6d.
sa
Swallow Brooch,
with
Heart and Ruby
Eye, 2s 6d.
Post free In N.S.W.
Mention Thr Bullbttit , ,
J. C. O’BRIEN & CO.,
Thousands of other Designs. Write To-day
Country Orders promptly attended to.
Agents for the Manufacturers,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
This is the Latest Type
THIS MACHINE
Gramophone
or
Zonophone.
Brice, £ 7 .
Carriage Paid.
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In (act, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing’ to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
We are Talking Machine Experts, and keep
the largest stock of Machines, Records,
and spare parts in Australia. Cineiiiato-
graphes, X-Ray Apparatus, Electric
Decorations, Fans, etc., and all acces-
sories.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia— EDISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
IF. «/, y. Older sh aw, Manager.
162 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (ONLY).
ZETZ-SPA WATER
THE
PLUM
dsad
Price—SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ;or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires srrindinjr. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
03FL_A.ICa- & AITKEKT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDIXTEY.
as
I Baron Berzelius’ Report.
.r-r, Z h rcf e . r « c 2 mmend in. DYSPEPSIA, CHRONIC RHEUMATISM and CUTA-
NEOUS AFFECTIONS. The action of Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidney and Bladder than any other herbal plant $ and it also assists persons suffer-
ing from Skin Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and inducing perspiration.
Read What Medical Men Say About Them,
BJERKIN, M.D. The Bitter is pure, and not like others in overdoses. It has a remark-
able influence on the Liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it when deranged,
and restores healthy evacuations in cases of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D. : —BBBB—I find these Bitters a most valuable and wholesome
ionic, being pure and strengthening; a stimulant to the Liver, assisting Digestion. I therefore
thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D. :— lt is the purest of Bitters, and exerts a peculiar Influence over the
Li ver.
EDWARD ROW AND CO., SYDNEY.
WHEN YOU 8UY....
Eucalyptus Oil or Extract ,
BUY THE BEST.
PLATYPUS BRAND.
OF ALL CHEMISTS.
N.S.W. Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
Tasmanian Eucalyptus Oil Co. Ltd., Hobart.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Cnjbrocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €n)brocatioi}.
Dbar ?nu- Please Inform your readers that I hare been
cured of Weakness, etc., bv a simple and inexpensive
remedy, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
t o all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. .Send'(sfaunu^r'^ld^^
envelope to Mr. W
ladies t
Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of every description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Hfew South Wales . . .
Harbors’ Supply TTonse
680-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
6 6 A WATCH and CHAIN for 6/6-
risa %
To every purchaser
of one of our 2/8
“ Burmese ” Silver
Chains (either
Ladies’ Fob or Gents*
Curb) we will pre-
sent on payment of
4/- extra an Open-
Face Keyless Watch
(as illustrated)
which weguarantee.
There are no Con-
ditions or Guessing
1 1 i --/about this Watch,
e send the Watch and Chain registered (any colony) on
receipt of Postal Note for 6s. od. and 6d. for postage.
We make this extraordinary offer merely to circulate
our prioe-list, and will send as a FREE GIFT a beautiful
Pendant Charm Penknife to hang on the watoh-chain.
Mention BpltjSttit.
H. POTIER 4 CO.,
IMPORT***, U RdYat, AROAPR, tiyr»KET
The Glory of Man.
Tiie crown and glory of manhood is strength—
power. All human conquests have been won by
it; individual and collective. The earliest sign of
decay in man is not usually pain, but weakness of
some kind—of mind or body, or both. This may
be the inevitable sequence of advanced years, or
it may, as we all know, show itself at any period
of life. But it always means that the sources of
strength are failing, as the lessening of the water
in a river means a drying up of the springs and
streams which feed it.
I said “ sources' ’ of strength, using the plural
word. I should have said “ source ” of strength,
for in human beings there is but one. What is it ?
Perhaps the experience of Mr. David Jones will
help us to an answer.
“ In the summer of 1881,” he says, “ I began to
feel ill and out of sorts. I wa3 weak and tired
and quite worn out with little exertion. I had a
poor appetite, and after eating had pain and
weight at the chest. My secretions were scanty
and thick. My back felt stiff and gave me much
pain as I moved about. For three years I suf-
fered like this, being at times better and then
worse. I consulted a doctor, who gave me medi-
cines and recommended Turkish baths ; but I got
no better for any kind of treatment.
“ My brother then told me about Mother Sei-
gel’s Curative Syrup, but I had no faith in adver-
tised medicines. He, however, urged me to take
it, and after taking a few doses I experienced so
much relief that I continued with it, and was soon
strong and well as ever. Since that time I take a
dose of this remedy when I feel at all ailing, and
d sets me right. I have praised Mother Seigel’s
Syrup to all my friends, many of whom have
tried it and been benefited by it. You can pub-
lish this statement if you like. (Signed) David
Jones, 1 Dunlace-street, Walton, Liverpool, July
31, 1896.”
We have room for one more short letter before
we try to come at the answer to the question with
which we set out. It is exactly in the same line,
and ought to make the results of our enquiry all
the more clear and plain.
i( “I n the spring of 1888,” proceeds the writer,
‘ my health began to fail me. I felt languid and
heavy, as if something had come over me. I had
a bad taste in the mouth, my appetite was poor,
and the little food I took gave me pain across the
chest and between the shoulders. My food lay
like lead on my stomach. I was constantly
spitting up a thick phlegm, and when in bed
heavy sweats came over me. I got weaker and
weaker, and from time to time was confined to
bed. Often I was so bad I could not dress or un-
dress myself.
Now better, now worse, but never well, I
suffered for over five years. I took different kinds
of medicines, and had a doctor, but got no real
benefit from anything.
‘I In July, 1 , )3, a book was left at my house in
which I read of cases like mine having been cured
by Mother Siegel’s Syrup. I got a bottle from
the International Tea Company, Yeovil, and be-
gan taking it. In a short time I felt much benefit,
and, by continuing with it, gained strength. I
could eat better, food agreed with me, and by-and-
bye I was strong and well. But for Mother Siegel’s
Syrup I believe I should not now be alive. You
are at liberty to publish this statement. (Signed)
(Mrs.) .Jane Cronel, 82 Huish, Yeovil, November
29th, 1895,
What, then, do these cases show to be the source
of strength ? The answer is, Digested Food. That
and nothing else. All strength, of body or of
mind, comes from that, and that only. What
then, is the great enemy of strength, the fountain
of weakness? Indigestion—dyspepsia. You see
why ami how. A child could not miss the argu-
ment. What, then, restores strength? Mother
Siegel s Syrup. In what way ? By seeing the
digestive machinery in healthy operation. That
is what it did for our correspondents and does
daily for multitudes. Use it if you need it, and
pass the news to other weak ones.
An English paper describes the departure
of the Guards for the Transvaal:
The only exception to the general rule of admirable
behaviour has been Her Majesty’s Guards, and they must
perhaps be judged with a lenient eye, having regard to
their character as the pets of the London populace and
the special temptations to which they are exposed. But
their exodus from London last Saturday was by no means
oreditable to the Household Brigade. The scenes on the
way to Waterloo station recalled Hogarth’s famous pic-
ture of the March of the Guards to Finchley. The band
played “The girl I left behind me,” but the “girl,”
whose name was legion, would not he left behind.
Hardly a man in the line of march but had two or three
sweet creatures hanging on to him, and very few had not
been taking a parting glass. Free drinks had no doubt
been distributed widely, with the natural result. At the
tail end of battalions marching to entrain came cabs and
carts laden with the casualties, the weak heads who had
succumbed. I myself noticed a four-wheel cab with five
inside, all well “ on,” and on the roof a gay Guardsman
under the personal conduct of a corporal whom the drunk
was alternately trying to kiss and push off the cab, while
the crowd howled with delight, enjoying the fun. At the
station the Guards lay about in dozens more or less in-
| capable, and a number it was said had to be left behind
j in barracks until sober enough to travel. The senior
[ officers of the Guards are much chagrined at this
| loosening of the bonds of discipline.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advb. on page
27 of this issue.*
“Dooley,” the new American-Irish Josh
Billings, discourses on the expansion of the
Empire : —
Th’ diff’rence in furrin’ policies is the difference
between a second-rate safe-blower an’ a flrst-ciass broncho
steerer. The Fr-rinch buy a ton iv dinnymite, spind five
years in dhrilling a hole through a steel dure, blow open
th’safe, lose a leg or an ar’rm, an’ get away with th’
liabilities' iv th’ firm. Th’ English dhress up f’r a Method-
j ist preacher, stick a piece iv lead pipe in th’ tails iv their
coat in case iv emergency, an’ get all th’ money there la
in th’ line.
In th’ fr-ront dure comes th’ Englishman with a coon
king on ayether ar-rm that’s jus’ loaned him their king-
doms on a prom’ssory note, and discovers the Fr-rinch-
man enlargin’ fr’m th’ safe.
“ What ar-re ye doin’ here?” says th’ Englishman.
“ Robbin’ th’ naygurs,” says the Fr-rinchman, bein'
thruthfiil as well as polite.
“ Wicked man,” says th’ Englishman.
“ What ar-re ye doin’ here ? ” says th’ Fr-rinchman.
“ Improvin’ th’ morals iv th’ inhabithants," says th’
Englishman. “ Is it not so, Rastus ? ” he says.
“It is,” says wan iv th’ kings. “I’m a betther if a
poorer man since ye came,” he says.
“ Yes,” says th’ Englishman. “ I propose f’r to thruly
rayform this unhappy counthry,” he says. “This be-
nighthed haythen on me exthreme left has been enjooced
to cut a good dale iv his wife’s business,” he says, “ an’
go through life torminted by on’y wan spouse,” he says.
“Th’ r-rest will go to wurruk f’r me,” he says. “Ail
crap games bein’ partic’lar ongodly ’ll be undher th’ con-
throl iv th’ gover’mint, which,” he says, “ is me. Policy
shops ’ll he r-run carefully, an’ I’ve appinted Rastus here
Writer-in-waitin’ to her Majesthy,” he says.
“Th’ r-rum they dhrink in these par-rts ” he says, “Is
fearful,” he says. “What shall we do to stop th*
ac-cursed thraffic ?”
“ Sell thim gin,” says I.
“ ’Tis shameful they shud go without nawthin’ to hide
their nakedness,” he says. “ I’ll fetch thim clothes;
: but,” he says, “as th’weather’s too warrum for clothes,
I’ll not sell them anything that’ll last long,” he says.
“ If it wasn’t f’r relligion,” he says, “ I don’t know what
the wurruld wud come to,” he says,
j “ Who’s relligion ? ” says I h’ Fr-rinchman.
"My relligion, says th’ Englishman. “These pore,
benighted savidges,” he says, “’ll not be left to yer
odjious morals an’ yer hootchy-kootchy school iv
thought,” he says, “ but ’’ he says, “under th’ binif’oint
r-rule iv a wise ajid thrue gover’mint.,” he says, “’ll be
thruly prepared f’r hivin,”’ he says, “whin their time
comes to go,” he says, “ which I thrust will not be long,”
he says, “or I’ll take th’ thick end iv th’ slung-shot to
ye,” he says.
“ Th’ Fr-rinchman is a br-rave man, an’ he’d ’stay an’
have it out on th’ flure ; but some wan calls, * A base th’
Chinnyman ! ’ an’ off he goes on another track. An’,
when he gets to the Chinnymen, he finds th’ English’ve
abased thim already. An’ so he dances fr’m wan par-rt
th’ wurruld to another like a riochous an’ happy flea, an’
divvle th’ bit iv progress he makes, on’y thrubble f’r
others an’ a merry life f’r himsilf.”


the Favorite
WHISKEY.
GEO.ROE&C?'?.
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVES
JOHN MEAGHER&C9
'82 A PITT ST.
SYDNEY.
ASK
FOR
stui
BRANDY
The Finest Brandy Imported. #
Sold by the Civil Service Co-Operative Stores,
Pitt St., and by Leading Hotels and Wine and
Spirit -Merchants. *
A
dsa
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WHLT€R BR&DL6Y * CO.,
Furniture and Fine. Art Auctioneers,
p
Auction Room", 324 G?org) Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Giassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the A action Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale..
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st.
POLITICAL
POINTS
London Referee opines that “ the little
Englanders will now allude to Charteredsas guilt-
edged securities. ”
Victorian stop-gap Premier M‘Lean was
largely interested in the defunct Maffra Beet
Sugar Co. Hence the gibe, “ the Dead-Beet
Ministry.”
Thanks to J. G. Drake’s defection, the
Independent candidate is a back number now all
over Queensland. The independent candidate for
Enoggera polled 28 votes !
That cable item about how the Australian
oroops were “ exposed to a terrific fire” or “a
rain of lead ” for half an hour, and the casualties
were one soldier bruised through falling over a
root, grows wearisome.
Treasurer Ward, of Maoriland, proposes
*o try the experiment of an enormous reduction
(something like 40 per cent.) in railway fares.
Certainly, Maoriland railway fares are very high,
and there is much room for reduction.
The Q. Labor-party was “left on the
mat ” as regards the promised One-man-one-vote
Bill. Premier Philp dodged it for a few weeks,
and then, when introducing several feeble little
Bills, alleged “no time this session.” And if he
oan help it there won’t be time any session.
AFTER THE LODGE.
FIRST GRAND OX: “N', Vk ’ere, ol’ m’n, y’r
c’m’n’n' fr’ a drink ’fore yer yo ’ome?”
SECOND GRAND OX : “ Ain’t it a bit late, sonny?
Le’me see! how's the enemy? ”
FIRST GRAND OX : “O’, she’s al ri',she’s
'sleep. ”
Drunk with their success in throwing out
M‘Cay at Castlemaine, Victoria, the jingoes are
arranging an onslaught upon Hamilton at Ben-
digo, for having dared to speak against the export
of the Vic. Boer-butchers. But the Bendigo
miners of to-day and the remnant of the old
diggers are about the last people in the world to
punish honesty and grit and to offer a premium to
hypocrisy and froth, so there is a fair chance that
the scheme will fail.
S.A. Leg. Council last session contemptu-
ously rejected two different proposals for franchise
reform, besides measures for early-closing, work-
men’s compensation, and assessment of land
values. And S.A. is equipping a second Contingent
to fight for the oppressed Ooflauders in the Trans-
vaal !
Premier Lyne intimates vyillingness to
grant 28-year land leases at Norfolk Island, but
says he will insist on judicious use and continuous
residence. Considering that a man can hardly
escape continuous residence there unless he falls
into the sea the second condition seems somewhat
superfluous.
General Connaught applied to be let go to
the war with Roberts of Candahar, and met with a
loud, prompt refusal. Now, couldn’t Connaught
have found out beforehand whether he’d be
allowed to go, and thus have saved himself a pub-
lic refusal ? Or did he know before he applied
that he wouldn’t be allowed to leave his aged
parent ?
There is no satisfying some men, as wit-
ness this recent little breeze in Queensland
Assembly:—
Mr. McDonald : “If the Home Secretary will get his
hair off— ”
The Chairman of Committees : “ Order ! ”
Mr. M‘Donald : “ Well, if the Home Secretary will keep
his hair on—”
The Chairman of Committees: “ Order ! ”
Mr. M'Donald : “Well, if the Home Secretary has any
hair—”
The Chairman of Committees : “ Order ! Order ! ”
The man who supplies cable news to Aus-
tralia feels bound to earn hia salary by tickling
the long ears of the Australian ass. So he wires
that the inhabitants of Douglas (S. Africa) were
glad when the Boers were driven out of the town,
but when they found that it was the Australian
and Canadian troops who had driven them out
their joy was inexpressible. Why they were so
much gladder at being relieved by the Australian
Bill than by the British Tommy isn’t explained,
but it seems they almost fell down dead with joy.
The extinction of Gillies as
a political factor is a feature of
the Victorian situation that has
escaped remark through its very
completeness. The cherubic lit-
tle fellow was supposed to have
some talent for tactics, if he had
lost every other fitness for leader-
ship. He is no orator, he is dis-
credited in finance, and he is a
proved failure in constructive
statesmanship ; but his admirers
still said, “ Oh, he is a rare
hand at manoeuvring.” Nobody
can say that of him now. He
might have made his own terms
with M'Lean. He failed to do
so, and lost his chance. In con-
jecturing what may happen, no-
body thinks of mentioning
Gillies. He is a forgotten article
at the political dead-letter office.
Poor defaulting Drake bade
good-bye to his Enoggera (Q.)
constituents in a wretched pul-
ing address printed in the
Courier. The gist of the afore-
said apology consisted in a state-
ment that the local Worker, by
advising electors in future to
vote for straight Labor candi-
dates (advice which was given
subsequent to Drake’s defection),
had really justified J.G.D. in his
tergiversation. The perverted
legislator went on further to
assert that there was no evil like
a -weak Government, for which
reason he had allied himself to a
strong one. A few years ago the
Enoggera M.L.A. used to loudly
assert that there was no evil
like a corrupt and dishonest
Government; and that the Con-
tinuous Ministry of Queensland
was such a Government.
The only real volunteers in
the Boer war are the Boers them-
selves. They fight for home and
freedom, and do not get a doit of
pay. The British Tommy Atkins
is a mercenary at Is. 2d. a day.
The Australian contingent are
bigger mercenaries, for they get
the bigger pay —4s. 6d. a day.
And the war expenses are already
beeinning to be charged against
the good old loan, so it appears
that the loyal Australian who
goes won’t go without pay, and
the loyal Australian who stays
at home won’t pay. If the pre.
sent generation is to have the
glory, and excitement, and
change, and whoop, and pensions,
and titles, and V.C.’s, and leaves
future generations to pay the dreary
bill, the only possible inference is that
the present generation is two frauds and
a sham and a hollow swindle.
The re-arming of the Vic. military forces
with the Martini-Enfield rifle looked like a hideous
job when it was perpetrated ten months ago, and
in the light of the recent action of the British
commanders it grows still more smellful. The
Martini-Enfields cost the country £IO,OOO, and
despite the strong protest of people who pointed
out that the weapon was obsolete and abandoned
in Europe, the deal was carried out. The rifles
arrived in Melbourne, but to this day hardly any
have been served out, and in all probability they
will go direct from the stores to the pawnshops to
be retailed at 10s. each for the defence of the home
from cats. The Vic. contingent landed in South
Africa with 250 of the old arquebuses, only to
have them replaced instantly with Lee-Metfords.
Victoria is to be asked to shell out another
.£IO,OOO at least to bring her armament up to date.
Who is that calling “ Police ” ?
A usually well-informed cor-
respondent writes: —
Premier Bill Lyne, when asked just
before the recess if he would not stop
piling old people on top of each ,
other in the asylums, promised y
to consult Col. Sec. See about
it. What See thinks is suffi-
ciently shown by the fact that
he is stopping all the little
weekly allowances to the aged
paid from his office as fast as
they (being- only granted for
limited terms) fall in, giving
the recipients their choice of
“ Asylum or nothing.” One
old fellow who had been re-
ceiving 108. a week for his
wife and himself, applied for
a renewal. No enquiries, so
far as he knows, were made;
but the above alternative
was offered. Both husband
and wife promptly replied
that they would starve rather
than give up their liberty and
go into an asylum, and so the
matter stands.
Is the Lyne Government
saving money off the local
destitute in order to help
pay for its Boer-prodding
campaign ?
“ Britishah ” : Our
olergy are namby-pamby, mealy-
mouthy, and oreepy-erawly in their
pulpit prayers over this war. Let us
have some regular good red-hot gospel shots.
Treasurer Dickson, of Queensland, makes
the astounding assertion that all the Premiers
interested, save Lyne, of N.S.W., have agreed to
pay the expenses incurred by the British New
Guinea land syndicate in unsuccessfully trying to
steal a huge section of New Guinea without the
assent of these provinces, as required by law.
Queensland has already voted its share of the
expenses. This is about the most amazing case of
sheep-like humility in Australia’s history.
In various parts of Australia the violent
and drinky “ loyalist ” has broken out in bitter
animosity against Germans. In fact, he claims to
be so devoted to his purely German Queen, and his
wholly German Prince of Wales, and all the Ger-
man royal family, that his yearning to bash every
German he meets is unconquerable. How Queen
Victoria will feel if she ever hears, in her peace-
ful old age, that the alleged loyalists of Broken
Hill have been trying to wipe up the town with
her countrymen is a difficult question. Possibly
she will wish that the loyalists of Broken Hill
were dead.
Every year the question of denominational
education crops up in Queensland Parliament,
more or less disguised. During last session the
sectarian crowd made a big stride. It got a
motion through the House that State scholarships
should be open to pupils of private and sectarian
schools, and that the winner of a scholarship
might take out his one or two or three years of
State-paid higher education at a denominational
school if so inclined. When the State thus provides
indirect cash assistance for denominational schools,
the free, secular and compulsory principle has in-
directly gone broke.
A Teuton writing to Melb. ’Ebald on the
“ pro-Boer-British-anti ” subject, .remarks that
“ the onlooker always sympathises with the party
who will get beaten in the end.” Also, he re-
minds all and sundry anti-German Jingoes (many
of whom have no minds worth mentioning) that
British sympathy was with the French in the
Franco-German war. Just as well for the new
Australian generation, born since 1870, to know
that their progenitors showed a noisier anti-Ger-
man feeling (when the French were going to get
beaten in the end) than the anti-British feeling
exhibited by the Germans to-day.
A letter to an Adelaide daily :
As the Government are thinking of sending another
contingent to Africa, I would suggest that the men be
drawn from the distressed farmers. There are hundreds
of these who would jump at the chance. They are
accustomed to long hours, privations, and a rough life,
and know how to use a rifle. They would not get sore
feet with walking a mile or two. There are plenty of
these men who would rather meet the Boers than their
creditors year after year, and who, if a bullet found its
way home, would lay down and be thankful it was over.
Their horses, too, have learnt to live on sand and salt-
bush.
Heaven only knows how that ever got printed
there !
The cry of intelligent jingoism i.e.,
jingoism which hasn’t gone clean daft must be,
“Lord, save us from the Press!” One special
correspondent, quoted by Melb. Age, wrote:
“The Boers disregarded every recognised law of
civilised warfare. Dum-dum bullets were used,
and every horse on the plain was made a mark of
in the hope of hitting the rider. The British
artillery continued its excellent work, and shell
after shell fell right into the enemy’s trenches.”
It is hard to raise a splendid patriotic disgust for
the Boer, who hopes to shoot the other fellow
what time the other fellow’s cannon is trying hard
to blow the marksman into bits.
The jingo press, affirming that America
sympathises with Britain in the Boer war, finds
it hard to explain away the vote of sympathy with
the Transvaal passed by the City Councils of Bos-
ton and New York. The fact is, that the U.iS.
is only about one-fourth Anglo-Saxon by descent,
and therefore the Anglo-Saxon brotherhood can’t
come off for want of the brother. There was a
burst of pro-British enthusiasm during the late
war, when Britain was using her influence to pre-
vent Spain receiving assistance, but already it is
cooling down. Gratitude doesn’t last long. Also,
gratitude, like charity, begins at home. Like-
wise business comes 'before gratitude.
Now that particulars of the Maoriland
local option poll are to hand it really seems that
the Cold Tea Brigade has some reason for its con-
fidence. By the existing law the Accursed Drink
can’t be abolished in any district unless three-
fifths of the votes cast are for “no licence,” and
THE WRONG ADDRESS.
General Buller expects to spend Xmas in Pre-
toria. —English paper , Nov., '99.
LANDLORD: “He don't live here, Swartzel, try
somewhere in Natal.”
but for this proviso the party would have carried
a number of districts. Out of the first 43 returns
there were 16 wherein the “ no licence ” vote out-
numbered the vote for “ continuance,” and in a
good many districts the “no licence ” vote was
much stronger than in ’96. Total prohibition is
obviously a possibility in Maoriland, despite the
dreadful way the cause slumped in ’96.
That section of the press which describes
the present war as a fight to decide whether Dutoh
or British shall own South Africa, apparently
overlooks the fact that there is a third party to the
question. Portugal (which might be a fourth
party) is too weak to count for anything, but Ger-
many now owns almost as much South African
soil as the British Government does, and if the
great red-painting of the map is to be accom-
plished there is a very large difficulty still ahead.
Here is the extraordinary series of deci-
sions and motions and amendments by which
Westralia’s Upper House rejected Federation.
It voted : (1) That the Federal question ought to
be submitted to a popular vote. (2) That the
proposal to submit to the people both Federal
Bills (the one accepted in the eastern provinces
and the one proposed by the W.A. Parliamentary
Committee) ought not to be adopted. (3) That
the new Bill proposed by the W.A. Parliamentary
Committee should be submitted to the people by
itself. (4) That Westralia should not ask the
other provinces to accept its amended Bill. (5)
That no Federal Bill whatever should be submitted
to the people. Then, feeling it had done its duty
and saved the country this extraordinary Council
shambled back to bed.
N.S.W. P.-M.-G. Crick on war matters :
The Postmaster-General said it was immaterial where
the money came from, because the money must come. If
it became necessary for the country to give a million of
money he dared say that this country would find this
money. (Loud cheers.) At the time of the Russian war
scare Mr. Gladstone came down and asked the British
House of Commons for a war vote of 11 millions.
Without one word of debate the English Parliament,
trusting in the administration of its Government, voted,
the money.
It was Disraeli, not Gladstone, who asked for
these 11 millions in the Russian war scare days of
the late ’7o’s —not that Crick’s ignorance of history
matters much. The main point is that this marks
another departure on the road to Irresponsible
Government. It has already been laid down that
Australia shouldn’t inquire into the justice of a
British war before joining in it; this country has
no voice in making British wars, but it is its duty,
as a loyal and wholly unreasoning animal without
brains, to rush in and bite the individual that
Britain is biting. Now it is further laid down
that it should also rush in without the faintest
idea about the size of the bill or how it is to
be paid. Moreover, from a strictly financial point
of view, trusting to Disraeli was a very different
thing from trusting Crick or Lyne. Disraeli
covered the expanse by nearly doubling the
income tax. If Crick and Lyne were honest
enough and courageous enough to face the
responsibility in like manner, they might also
expect to be trusted.
OUR COUNTRY.
Land of flies and land of bullocks,
Land of tears and land of sighs,
Land of dreary wastes and hillocks,
When the spirits never rise.
Where the dreamy sad-eyed oxen
Chew their cud beneath the trees ;
While above the jackass mocks ’em,
Praying for a cooling breeze.
Where they send men from the country
In another’s cause to fight;
When their own grey arid homesteads,
Long for streams of water bright.
Land of heat and suffocation,
Sweltering under skies of brass,
You will never be a nation
While you choose to be an ass.
KELPIE.


EASY
TERMS
IF
YOU
WISH.
FEURICH
PIANO
A
HIGH
GRADE
PIANO
AT
A
MODERATE
PRICE
A PIANO
THAT ALWAYS
GIVES SATISEACTION.
ARTISTIC CASES
NOBLE TONE
PERFECT TOUCH
GREAT DURABILITY
PALINGS
SOLE A6CNTS
THEY
STAND
THE
TEST
OF
TIME
PALING’S are HEAD QUARTERS for MUSIC and ALL MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Call or Write for CATALOGUES—FREE.
W. N. PALING A CO., Ltd., Tbe lmporters of M6&ic aijd Musical 6oods,
338 George Street, Sydney,
Brisbane and Newcastle.
tm
m
-
.. ■
asm ,
(F
:■ ■
rypf.w*
mr-
iCW
SHKf
CW;
*1
rrHTS photograph of the camel larlen with typewriters on the goldfields of Westralia affords picturesque evidence
of the push and penetration of the United Typewriter and Supplies Co. Illustrated Catalogues posted on
application to any of the undermentioned addresses.
Ufyitcd Typewriter & Supplies Co.,
114 IMTT ST., SYDNEY ; 362 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE ; BARRACK ST., PERTH, W.A.
Agencies— Queensland : Webster & Co., Brisbane. Adelaide: Reeves & Co., King Willi am-street. Hobart:
Waloh & Sons. Launceston : Hedley-Button. Auckland : J. H. Colwill, Queen-street. Dunedin : Hayward and
Garratt, Princes-st. Wellington : W. R. Whyte, 12 Feathorstone-st. Christchurch :J. O. Barnard, Hereford-st.
Most of the subjects vised in dissecting
rooms,of British medical schools are sent over in
pickle from Belgium. liven the British corpse
made abroad.
The Bulletin acknowledges receipt of the
P. and O. Pocket Book from the great Steamship
Company, bf that ilk. The pocket-book is a
beautiful Tittle volume with the front cover
adorned with a steamer and the sun smiling from
behind the Rock of Gibraltar. The back cover i
illuminated with the arms of theco., also in gilt.
Inside there are 200 pages of valuable information
about the co., its ships, the places it takes you to,
the number of shekels charged for so doing, and
there are also 9 maps and 12 beautifully-finished
illustrations.
When prisoners Williams and Littlejohn
broke out of Hobart gaol and were re-captured,
Sheriff Ross held an inquiry, which was remark-
able for the points missed, or left undeveloped
when they cropped up. But, on the strength of
it, Premier and Attorney-General N. K. Lewis
ordered a warder named Burrows to be disrated.
It was clear enough to anyone but a civil servant
or a Minister that tlie gaol and the Government
were to blame, not Burrows ; but the sacrifice of
a warder was neither here nor there. It was
shown that eight prisoners, one or two of whom
had escaped on former occasions, were put to
bathe in eight bathrooms that had no fastenings
on the doors; that the yard-door was bolted on
the inside ; and that a prisoner passing out of it,
after drawing a bolt, had only to throw his leg
across the Governor’s garden-fence and walk
through the Governor’s house into the publio
■taeefe. This w«s just what Williams and Little
john did. It was so absurdly easy that an infant
or a cripple could have escaped. It is all very
good to blame the solitary warder who had to look
after the eight prisoners and do other things as
well, but if the Government is too hard-up to buy
locks for its gaol, things will happen.
An important reason of Buller’s inaction
in Natal seems to be Britain’s lack of the sordid
but useful mule. Buller ran his troops up opiv>-
site Colenso by train, but the Boers fortified the
hills over against the river fords, and the position
was too strong to be taken. And there Buller is
stuck. He cannot move up the river or across
country by Weenan or anywhere else because the
railway doesn’t run there and he has no mules.
Great is the glory of the mule.
SORE EYES.
Morris’s Imperial Eye Ointment —the uni-
versal remedy—over 50 years in use, still un-
rivalled. See testimonials. Sold every where,-2s.
per pot. Take no other.*
There are two sides to every war-story,
and between the British fake-yarn and the Boer
fake-yarn you can take your pick. British say
the Boers fired on the Geneva cross at Mafeking.
Boers retort that British spread Geneva crosses
all over the place; pretty nearly every building
had a Geneva cross, making the bombardment
futile. So they notified they would respect one
and shell all the others ; and the British dodge
didn’t work. British say Boers fire on white-flag
parties after wounded. Boers say that, as soon as
British are beaten, they go “ hunting wounded ’
with white flags in parties of 40 or 50, and so
legitimate captives get off clear. And so on.
All
Cyclists
arc
iQVited
to send for a copy of our latest Booklet, (i All About
Dunlop Tyres for 1900,” which is admittedly the
finest Brochure ever issued gratis in the colonies.
It Contains 48 pages of interesting reading matter, profusely
illustrated with Australian and English scenes, besides photos
of Australasian Champions, the whole forming an artistic and
interesting reference work on all matters relating to
MMJU22S
Posted
Gratis
on receipt of name and address at
The Ounlop pneumatic Tyre Co. of J|us., [tf.
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
<r
And at *
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, NhZ.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security -
U>WEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
INT-S.-W.
(Rant deplete jj).?l>l.C 0 *> tW*
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGi-H ST.,
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
The C'ty Mutual [if®
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castler eagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street ( facin - Brid » e ‘ st) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
an <1
Gtiarantee
Co. Ltd. of Loudon.
Fidelity Guarantees. Fmp. liiabilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, Dipht.lieria. etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessoi-, Director. Mel-
bourne. D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Pertlx, West Australia.
SPLENDID BUILDING BLOCKS,
50 x 150, only £5 each, on easy terms, no
interest. Title, Torrens’ Act. Adjoining Bishop
Gibney’s Estate and the Perth Commonage.
Plans post free from
1 ERNEST C. V. BROUGHTON,
Auctioneer & Sworn Valuator under the R.P. Act,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGER,
Aldershot, Queensland. __
LoiydoQ St Lancashire
Fire Insurance company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New waßs |95 pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors-John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
The Qank of Qorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager- Local Director-JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. Ciiarker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders
£lOO,OOO
250,000
£350,000
OPALS • PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
...0F...
Opals, Pearls Sappbirs£
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
full value given.
IV. B€NJAMIN aijd SONS,
285 a Little Collins St-,-Melbourne-
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WAHRNAMBOOL
Leura, Sat., Jan. 13, 12 Noon.
-Koonoowarra, Tues., Jan. 16, 5 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., January 20,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Buninyong, Tues., Jan. 23, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH |
ROCKHAMPTON \
BUNDABERG J
Peregrine, Sat., Jan. 13,12 Noon.
Buninyong, Tues., Jan. 16, 5 p.m.
Leura, Sat., January 20, 12 Noon.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., Jan. 13, 12 Noon.
Leura, Sat., Jan. 20, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Faces and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months. ■
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. MTlwraith, M'Eacharn & 00.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, Sec.
Ib€ TrCistccs, Cxec&torS,
AND
Coiijpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED... £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 30th June, 1899 ...£6,386,057 8 11
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (11 12 ’99) .. £3,159,571 0 0
Directors:
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. 11. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thorn ley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M'Nall, R. M. M‘Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
hondon Office: 1 Sishopsf/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Manager: John M‘N.all.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuchar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with aeeney at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
'-THE—s
Colonial Mutual liife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765—assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office : 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KELtR, Manager.
THE
INTERCOLONIAL—***
Mines Purchase Option
AND
Development Company
(NO LIABILITY).
CAPITAL - - £20,000.
YX7ILL PURCHASE approved Mining Properties and
VV Interests, and ADVANCE MONEY for Develop-
ment upon Option of Purchase, subject to inspection,
upon receipt of proposals to be submitted with the fullest
possible particulars.
Directors:
Messrs. D. E. M‘Bryde, Harvey Paterson,
E. Neale Wigg, J. T. Lempßiere.
Consulting Engineer:
A. T. Brown.
Secretary:
JOHN BRANDON,
39 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Shipping
WHITE STAB LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
PERSIC, 11,984 tons, February.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AFRIO, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
England via America
by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LIN 15).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most tavorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
Nil
ATORDDEUTBCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
85 Steamers with 400,000 Tons Reg. and
350;000 Horse-power.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
*TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow,
Marsupial Skins, Horns,
Bones, Hair, Wattle Bark,
and all descriptions of
Station and Butchers’ Produce.
S Yi>NE Y MA BEET:
The Principal Selling Centre in Australasia.
Regular Weekly Auctions are held by the under-
signed Brokers, and all selling expenses are
embraced in a
Consolidated Commission Charge only.
tSF MARKET REPORTS forwarded FREE to
any address on application.
AUSTRALASIAN MORTGAGE & AGENCY CO., LTD
JOHN BRIDGE & CO., LTD.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.
HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, LTD.
HILL, CLARK & CO
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY
CO., LTD.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
WYLY, TRENCH 'RD & CO.
J. 0. YOUNG & CO.
D.S.MAIR
iff
I WATCH REPAIRS BY POST.
Watches Cleaned, Regulated and Guaranteed 1 year, 2/6.
Best quality new English Mainsprings, 2/6.
i D. S. Mair for Gent’s Keyless Silver Lever Watches.
Accurate timekeepers. Guaranteed 5 years. 25/
! D. S. Mair for Gent’s Silver Double Alberts. 6/6
7/6, 86,9 6. English Hall-marked.
D S. Mair for Ladies’ 5-stone Brilliant Dianond
Ring. ' £4 10s. 18-carat, Gold. Hall-marked.
Note address — 684; George Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.
Express Passenger Service to and from West Australian,
South Australian, Victorian, and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT I’IRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Allinga, Friday, Jan. 12.
S.S. Wollowra, Safc., Jan. 13
(Without Transhipment)
BKISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns
S.S. Eurimbla, Friday,
January 12.
For BRISBANE >-S.S. Adelaide, Sat., Jan. 13.
NOTE.—This steamer running under contract with the
Queensland Government for the carriage of refrigerated
cargo will maintain a regular weekly.fast service between
Sydney and Brisbane, and will connect with the P. and O.
and Orient steamers. The attention of passengers is
directed to this opportunity of quick transit between
Sydney and Brisbane. The ADELAIDE is a first-class pas-
senger steamer, all cabins containing only two berths.
Hest <1; Cheapest lionte to Goldfields.
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. 00.
G. S, YUILL & CO., Ltd., Agents, 6 Bridge St. Sydney.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships, as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Maekay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN —Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA.
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY-Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE—A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agency
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
* Proceeding via Hobart.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAWNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
pddart, parker § (Jo’s [ine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
CHINA and JAPAN
VIA
Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
Eastern & Australian S.S. Co. Ltd.
The following FAVORITE PASSENGER STEAMERS,
specially built for the EASTERN PASSENGER TRADE,
are despatched from Melbourne and Sydney to CHINA
and JAPAN PORTS at regular intervals—
EASTERN AUSTRALIAN
AIRLIE GUTHRIE
MENMUIR
Passengers booked through to Europe via China,
Japan and Canada or the United States of America.
For Sailing Dates and other particulars, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
(jpjluiralth7ll) < Eacharn& (Jo.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotal ions, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn Ss Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O.
steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent.


For what you. are about to re-
ceive, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
dsa
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part.of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price, 10s. (*«1.
m
“I’ll Try It.” Sole Agents : The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-632 George- st,, Sydney
Publications.
“Open-Air Treatment of Con-
sumption,”
By DR. ALFRED NEALE.
Turner and Henderson, Sydney. Post, Is. 7d
Books. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR— £S for £1 ss. The Home
Physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for tl. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. 6d. Chambers’
Encyclopedia,hound half calf, up-to-date edition, lOvols.,
£7 10s. for 12 15s. The History of Australian Bushrang-
ing, Is. 3d. I have three very choice hooks, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper. -
R. W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streeo, Sjdnev.
FROM LIFEr
For Lovers of Art and Beauty.
In most exquisite Parisian taste. Seventy Samples, Three
splendid Cabinets or Stereoscopes, and Large Illustrated
Catalogue, ss. Carefully selected assortments, 155.,
255. and 40s. money order or London draft.
R. GENNERT, 49c RUE ST. GEORGES,
PARIS, FRANCE.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
IX.L XT S 3 “X* XX XBD
(
TT7ITH numerous anatomical
• ' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being- imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
Add ress, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.O., SYDNEY.
d
ILLUSTRATED
I BOOKLET °Boollf
Post Free for One Stamp
MADAME PANZA,
Box 913 } Gr.P.O., Sydney
STAMPS
w:
OETS 4 Soudan (Camee) Is; 7
Bolivia, Is; 5 Gautemala(Bird)
Is; 6 Newfoundland (new issue),
Is 6d ; 9 Labuan (new picture
issue) 3s 6d; 12 Luxemburg-, Is;
9 British North Borneo (new
picture issue) 3s Cd ; 8 Bosnia, 6d ;
50 Spain, 2s. Packets 30 different,
fid ; 50, Is ; 100, 2s 6d ; 150, ss.
Remit by P. 0.0. P.N. Ulus, catalogues of albums and
stamps post free. Stamps purchased. CHARLES B,
DONNE, 346 Ltle Collins-street, MELBOURNE.
sad
How Do! May I send you
my
'Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
,201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPEDIA.
II nature has not. gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, The Lovers’ Encyclopaedia w II supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can, the knowledge im-
parted by tliis book unlocks the gate ami you have only to
step in. . It. considers the whole subject fr< m the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure tor bash'.illness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Heuroducii«»nsof cunouslove
letters and FIFTEEN HUNDKED tit-bits in prose and poetry
that, you can find dailv use for. 2s. 6d. (stamps, 2d. extra),
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally
happiness with one you love. Anglo-Ameuioan 1 üblishing
i 0., Commercial Chambers, Sydney. N.to.W. Mention this
paper when writing
ffODGSON’S_
Tales of Medical Students.
By Dr. Hodgson, of Sydney. Just Issued.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, 3s. 6d. Post Free, 4s.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
sass
uvrv/wV
Q ETS of 12 Transvaal, Is ; 5 Orange State,
4d ; 7 Natal, Is ; 11 Cape, Is 3d ; 50
Cuba, 3s ed ; 50 Spain, 2s ; 9 Borneo, Is 6d ;
5 Guatemala, 8d ; 5 Bolivia, 6d ; 12 Luxem-
burg, 9d. SPECIAL PACKETS, 100 for 6d ;
250, Is ; 500, 2s ; 1000, 3s 6d. FINE COLLEC-
TIONS, 1000 differents (mounted) only 20s;
postage 2d. Remit P. 0.0., P.N. or stamps.
Price Lists free.
Wm. Aekland,
162 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
“SCARLET^BLUE”
Grand Patriotic Song, by Lindsay Lennox.
Sung Nightly, with unbounded applause, by Mr. Arthur
Hahn, at the Bijou Theatre.
Also,
“SABBATH EVENING CHIMES”
AND
“THE SMILE”—P.F.
By Willie Pape.
Hayed by Special Command of H.R.H Princess of Wales.
Of all Music-sellers.
W.PAXTON&, CO., Publishers, London & Melbourne.
Catalogues Post Free.
Harry Franks,
VICKERY'S BUILDINGS,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I have the representation in Australasia of this
“DEY REGISTER.”
Used by Employers as a check on their Employees.
w.
KlGlfi
Call and see same afc
above address, it is
well worth inspection;
or write for particulars.
s
I have the representation also of the
“HAMILTON
CASH REGISTER.”
Certainly the CHEAPEST on the market,
and AS GOOD AS ANY out here.
If you are a Buyer of a CASH REOrISTEH,
I can SAVE you MONEY on your Purchase.
EDM AN SON A CO., Block Arcade, Melbourne A gent.
CYANIDE.
QUICKSIL YEN.
NOYES BROS.,
31 O’CONNELI STREET,
SYDNEY;
17 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
DFtE-AJD
THIS I
VITADATIO
is the greatest medicine that has
ever been put before the public
of Australasia, or, in fact, the
world. It is making wonderful strides in all directions and is
a home-hold word in the Colonies. It is particularly beneficial
to hi dies, helping them to perform their many duties by
purifying the blood and putting new life into the run-down
system.
Eead this testimonial from a lady who has received great
benefit :
Vitadatio again Victorious over Yellow Jaundice and
Nervous Troubles.
“VITADATIO” THE WONDER OF THE CENTURY.
St. Arnaud, 30fch August, 1899.
Mr S A PALMER Australasian Agent for “VITADATIO.” _
M ''D s T ; S i,-wu,, Mjgg-f
:i! te Afto Ss&STtJ iSki ™'«f*f °s,“Pwe“ : s-s”vita
Jrfeet health ia nothing short of marvellous, and I can truly say that WMBBIBB VIIA-
D\TIO” has SAVED MY LIFE and made a new woman of me. My cure was effected five
DALLU nas Y itAf Iron loop,, no recurrence of either complaint, lam satisfied that my
CTStoTGToVto ’pEBIECrHEAS“pmMANEN.T, I feel that I CANNOT
PRAISE “ WEBBER’S VITADATIO ” HALE ENOUGH ; it is all that it claims to be, and
a .ureat dealinore. olease, and I sincerely hope that it may be the means of
illd ,S3™* 'iCS I VITADATIO,” and obtain speedy
"* KaifteSppy to answer inquiries if aecompanied by stamped and addressed euv.topA
I remain, yours very gratefully, UVirs.; it. aivx^o.
Witness—A. R. TABER.
Price of Vitadatio, everywhere, 5/0 & 3/6. Indian Oil of Cream, 2/0.
Institutes at
MELBOURNE, Vic.—Head Institute,
SYDNEY, N.5.W.—184 Pitt-street.
BRISBANE, Q.—116 Queen-street.
PERTH, W.A.—481 Hay-street.
47 Bourke-street E.
ADELAIDE, 5.A.—238 Rundle-street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—39 Manners-st.
S. A. PALMER, Sole Agent.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE. Follow
the Footsteps of the Wise, and Buy the Best, Cheapest,
and most Stylish Clothing in Australia from
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
252 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station).
5000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Oar Suit to Order, at 42/-,
is marvellous value, made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Serges, fast colors,
is perfect fitting, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cycling Suits, 357-
Riding Breeches, 25/-. Water-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Riding Habits, etc.
Wesupply Ready-made Men’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-. Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serure Trou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over-
n
\
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys' Clothing in Australia. Ele-
gant Tennis Shirts from 2/6. Undressed White Shirts,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm Travelling
Rugs, 13,6. Gent’s splendid Balmoral Boots, 66, 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hats, 4/6, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 66. Caps, 1/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts, very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1/-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. And all
classes of Gent.’s Mercery.
We like to write letters, so please don’t be afraid to ask
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy of Dress,
also Patterns of all- kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
posted Free. Write for them.
I
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
20!n. 5/6. all real hair.
CUTTINGS & COMBINGS
v worked up, 2/0 per oz.
We are the cbeapeStin Aus-
tralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
w. H.'wigz«n f
110 William Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door.
I
Send stamps (or tail Prioo List-
PrOSipt attenbion'given to Country Order®.
SIS
E. V.FINCKH&CO.
83 York St., Sydney,
Eastern Merchants <fc Importers.
Our Specialities are— Silks,
Silk Handkerchiefs, Silk Shirts, Drapings, Matting,
Screens, Bamboo Baskets, General Basketware,
Paper Lanterns, Curios, Go Carts. (Wholesale only).
A FEW “POINTS
11
9
TOUCHING . .
H
It allays irritation, and subdues
inflammation.
o
It is unequalled for all skin trouble.
M
It heals Cuts, cures Bruises, Burns,
etc.
o
It cures Ring Worm, Insect Bites
and Stings.
c
It is the best remedy for Piles in the
world.
E
Last, but not least,
A
IT TOUCHES THE SPOT
AND
Soothes the Aching Part,
and wherever pain is present Homocea or
Homooea Embrocation should be used.
Sold by all Storekeepers, General Dealers, and Chemists


THE SILVER RIBBON name-plate on the
EASY RUNNING MASSEY-HARRIS
stands for your money’s worth in Bicycles.
factories—Toronto, Canada. JJew South Wales Headquarters Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, pinned in. Kristians, Adelaide
Agencies almost everywhere. Art. Ca.t.a.logue posted free on application.
A new liquid bedroom insect exterminator,
claimed to be infallible, has been placed on the
market. The name of “ Bukil ” has been given to
it, and everybody seeing the connection will say,
“Well, 1 hope so.”*
Dr. LAW’S
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
lofkieoza CoQgb-
ds
si feature ef Merit.
Found Only in
1900 Model
Red Birds.
Another new feature, which is most important on account of its
simplicity and general excellence, is the Bed Bird seat post fastener-
composed of three pieces only.
A twist of, the wrist turns the small nut and the seat post
adjusts. No big wrench required as with other internal adjustments,
and no distorting of the fraiue-tul e as with bolt and nut fastenings.
This is only one of the many little features which makes the Red Bird just right and
superior to other cycles.
ManU and**Guaranteecl by ©OOld BlCyCle Co., Etd.
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Hflents— everywhere.
Australasian Branches
64 King-st., Sydney, Head Office in Australia.
261 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st., Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st., Wellington, N.Z.
WE HAVE A NUMBER OF SECOND-HAND CYCLES, WHICH WE ARE CLOSING OUT A.
VERY LOW PRICES. CALX- ■VND SEE THEM.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Mile Swimming Championship of the group, at
Sydney Domain Baths, Monday night, was contested by
Hamilton (M.L.), Maynard (V.), Bond, Dick Cavill,
Kearney, and plugger Smith (Sydney). They were well
together for 300yds., but henceforth young Dick gradually
drew away, tacking yard after yard on to his lead, until
the gap swelled to somewhere about 60 at the finish.
Bond (N.S.W. crack half-miler), who followed,
spurted a couple of times and decreased the vast
perspective of water between —but only on sufferance.
Maynard dropped behind from the jump—first inches,
then feet, and, by-and-by yards, till, at 1350, he turned
with Cavill, exactly two laps (90yds.) behind. ’Twas
whispered that this man would break 27, but he
couldn’t have got within coo-ee of it had he finished,
which he didn’t. M.L. champion, Hamilton, with-
drew, hopelessly out of the chase, at 350yds.,
and Kearney cried a go, very much in the rear,
200yds. further on. Time of winner (26min. 52 2-ssec.)
equals Australasian best, to credit of his brother Percy,
and is within 6see. of world’s amateur record (26min.
4645ec.), put up by one-time invincible Tyers, now a pro.
Boy Dick swam wonderfully well, as may be gathered
from the time. He was unlucky not to have entered for
the half-mile local supremacy, secured by Bond, and un-
luckier still in being shut out of the final of the hundred
on Saturday.
* • • •
In the big swimmingsprintstruggle, being second
in the fastest heat, Cavill should have started for the final,
but officials wouldn’t countenance this ; yet they allowed
it in the Quarter-mile Championship at Bathurst on New
Year’s Day. As it turned out, Dick would certainly have
annexed the title, for the effort against Cat ill took all
the steam out of Bishop, and Craig consequently went
within a hair’s breadth of snatching the race on the post.
Had little Dick started, he could have “ saddled up"
better than any other, and Bishop and Craig would have
been second and third instead of first and second, with
probably a second, or a good fraction thereof, knocked off
the time. Such a surprise was the Farm Cove
boy’s swimming that, after beating him in the
heat, Bishop looked up at the judges and, in
between a series of heavy respirations, said: “ My
Gawd! that’s a pretty hot lot to run up against.”
Later, when asked if he objected to Dick starting in
the final, he remarked, “ Oh ! I ’o'lited ’iin wonce.an’ ain’t
goin’ to stand ‘im ’ummin' round agin—not me, it ain’t
good enough.” Cavill’s swimming was the biggest eye-
opener sprung on Sydney swimmers for a very long time.
None of his top-notch brothers could have, at their best,
and under like conditions, covered the hundred as fast as
he did. Ernie, Percy, Tunis, and Sid are all well-built
athletic-looking chaps, but Dick, with his big deep chest
and sturdy' under-pins, is moulded on ideal lines for
swimming. He’ll be a world-beal er within another four
or five years. Prior to swimming on Saturday', Dick
covered 98 measured yards iu 1"2, but it was kept very
dark.
• * * *
The 100yds. championship was reminiscent
of neck-and-neck-struggles between Freddy Lane
and “Mud" Bishop last season. First heat went to
school-boy Grant (Balmain) in 1.7 3-5. Said that
this youngster licked Bishop by three-quarters of a yard
iu a trial 50yds. struggle recently'. Second heat was won
by “ Mud ’’ Bishop, who beat 15-year-old Dick Cavill by’ a
foot in 1.4 1-5. Erratic course caused Dick to lose
a little. Craig (Balmain) easily secured third heat,
while the fourth went to Kearney (West Sydney), 1.8 4-5.
Bishop led by 4yds. at the end of 50 in the final, but
Craig,'going at a great pace, gradually wiped out the
difference. They finished the last few yards together
amid intense excitement. Judges ruled that Bishop
“ touched’’ first, but there was no touch. A fast-ebbing
tide had left the rope 2yds. above the water. Time taken
was 1.5 1-s—a second slower, than that put up by the
winner against Cavill. Bishop faded a lot in the last
half of the journey, hence Craig’s bold hid. Grant
(third man) protested that the first two failed to comply
with rule which says rope must be touched. Matter wiil
be considered this week.
* • • •
Plunging supremacy of Australasia, contested at
Sans Sctici (Sydney') on Saturday, occupied lhr. smin.
Coates (holder of mother province premiership) won with
68ft. 6iu.—ten inches better than second man, Keers
(N.S.W.) M.L. representative Hamilton, (Wellington),
was third (56ft. 6in.), while T. Andrews and J. Kemp
(N.S.W.) tied, covering 55ft. 6in. each. The rest were
comparatively' nowhere. Coates weighs about 135 r.., but
Keers completely upsets theory that bulk is essential in
plunging ; he only sca'es about 9st. and easily' accounted
for eight others weighing from 14 up to 17.7. Whilom
champion of N.S.W., Harry Mulcahy, had a go after
being away from it for several years, but lack of wind
settled him inside 30seo. in each of three tries. World’s
best, under similar conditions to those obtaining Satur-
day (Imin. limit), is 78ft. 9in., created by Taylor ab
Bootle (Eng.) in ’9B. Five (Coates, Keers, Hamilton,
Andrews and Kemp) get standard certificates, which call
for a plunge of at least 55ft.
* * • •
“ Crank” : Forty-five feet high dive by Fritz Von
Hammer at Sans Souci (Sydney), Saturday, calls to mind
th#fact that the genus bridge-jumper and high-diver has
not been in evidence of late years—not since the old
batch took final leaps one after the other. If
memory serves, poor Peart (Sydney) and Tommy’ Burns
(London), who fairly reveiled in the game, were about the
last.. Yankee Steve Brodie started the craze, and
gathered in heaps of dollars with his jumps (really drops)
from Brooklyn and Poughkeepsie Bridges. He is the
only one that survived. Brodie runs a big saloon, and
lives in affluence in New York.
• * • *
Biennial Australasian swimming championships
(now being contested in Sydney) are in one sense a farce.
M.L.’s only rep. is a 1.11 man for the hundred ; there are
dozens of schoolboys here who can do better. S.A. sent
nobody, neither did Q. Maynard (Vic.) is the one pro-
perly-endorsed visiting swimmer. M.L. Association com-
plains that it had no information of dates, venues,
or anything else until too late. A.S.A. secretary
positively asserts he forwarded all necessary particulars
in ample time. Writer thinks matter should be probed
iu the interests of all the provinces—M.L. especially, for
that province never sent less than half-a-dozen repre-
sentatives before.
• * • •
Last mail from ’Ome brought news that Hunter
River (N.S.W.) sculler Geo. Towns had challenged world's
champion Gaudaur for a “monkey’’ a-side, but. as the
cable has been silent concerning the matter, it may be
assumed that wily old Canuck Jake is not “ taking any ”
of (he Australian, and has remained dumb as an oyster on
the subject. Shonlhaven (N.S.W.) Jim Wray crossed the
“ Herring-pond ’’for the purpose of trying to force Jim
Stanbury’s vanquisher from his lair, but it was no go ;
Jake got out by vowing I hat he would pull nowhere but
at Rat-portage, and Wray replied that there was no
chance of him being enticed into a rat-trap. Old man
Gaudaur will probably never row again, though be may
make-believe a lot. Towns should close on the title-
through Jake’s default. Gaudaur, who has been
rowing beyond the memory of the oldest inhabitant,
paralysed Australia three years ago by defeating Aus-
tralian Jim Stanburv. This country has been lately
under the impression that the game wag dead as a
door nail, and that if all the scullers extant were boiled!
down they couldn't raise tacking to the extent of £5OO.
• * * *
Recent N.S.W. League (Cyclists’) acetylene-
gas carnival was a failure so far as racing and gate were
concerned ; this despite persistent booming by a certain
Sydney daily. As is usually the case, there’s trouble
among the management. Secretary attributes loss to
absence of prominent riders and “inclement weather”
(as if they didn’t take good care to postpone upon the
slightest indication of inclement weather !). “ February
nv eting will recoup us,” hopefully remarked the see.
But then one delegate moved, and it was carried, “That
the race committee doesn’t retain the confidence of this
Council.” Whereupon the “ race committee ” resigned.
After the previous meeting, which was a success, the
“ race committee ” came in for unmeasured praise—but
RICHMOND THEOPHILUS CAVILL, aged
16, Champion Mile Swimmer of Australasia.
such is life. Joe Megson brought down censure upon
himself (or asking to be treated like riders from other
provinces—he wanted a tenner “appearance money,"
and when it wasn’t forthcoming, Joe notified through the
columns of the daily press that he wouldn’t compete ;
this “so as to clear himself with his employer (who ob-
jected to him racing) and the public.” Inference is that
had the tenner been in evidence, Joe’s employer’s objec-
tions would have heen got rid of. Oh ! why wasn’t that
tenner paid ? It would have brought a big “gate,” and
all would now be well.
• • • •
In the Vic. v. S.A. match two full days’ play on
the perfect JI.C.C. wicket produced 493 runs. That’s not
good enough to keep interest in the game alive, and, as a
matter of fact, it didn't. Four thousand people, largely
deadheads, sat around the ground on New Year’s Day, as
against 3(1,000 who had gone there to gaze at bicycle races
a fortnight earlier. The heat was not accountable lor
all the falling off in the attendance.
• * * •
Jack Lyons states that he will probably retire
from first-class cricket at the end of this season. Lyons
was one of the finest hitters the game has seen, and his
greatest feats have been performed on English grounds,
particularly at Lord s. The writer can rememher when
Jack was, as a lad, a mighty smiter of junior bowling in
Adelaide, and his great rival then was Walter Giffen.
Lyons’ name will always be coupled with that of Alec.
Bannerman, who maintained many a mighty stonewall
at one end when “ Carbine ’’ was pounding at. the other.
• • * *
Wybert Reeve was recently showing cinemato-
graph pictures at Adelaide Royal in which the great
bowler Jones could be seen mowing down English
wickets. The show didn’t catch on, and as only 12
people rolled up one fatal night the doors were shut.
N.S.W. recently made 803 against S A., mainly off Jones
aforesaid, and NVyhert Reeve is only just beginning to
realise that that recent disaster made the public feel too
sick to come along and gaze on the now faded champion's
old-time performances. The spectacle of what Jones
was only made what Jones is all the harder to bear.
* * • *
M.L. bruiser, Otto Cribb, after a big spell (for
him) is in the lists for a go with Harry Dawson at Golden
Gate A.C. (Sydney) this Saturday. Dawson is a big strong
fellow who owns a good pair of “dukes,” so that the
result is no moral. Cribb has a contract on with Ned
Burden for the middle of next month, and is arranging a
fight or two in between down at Melbourne to keep him
from getting blue-mouldy.
• • * •
Champion heavy-weight pug black, Peter Felix,
has disavowed all connection with manager Billy
M’Clain’s great bluff about fighting two men in one ring.
Felix says one man at a time is good enough for him
(writer’s opinion too), and has posted £5O to back him-
self. Word comes from W.A. that a Kalgoorlie sport will
guarantee £250 for another meeting between Felix and
Doherty, and that the latter can find £lOO side wager;
hut the big colored chap replies that he will only fight in
Melbourne.
• • • •
“ K.” : Want to know a more profitable calling
than that of a champion bruiser. Jeffries got £6085 for
beating Sailor Sharkey recently, while the loser’s whack
totted up £2028. Biograph pictures of the fight are
valued at €lOO,OOO, of which each man is to receive a
third. What for? Neither is skilful in the sense that
Jackson, Foley, and Fitzsimmons were. It was a question
as to which w-ould stand the most pounding. They
finished even, but the referee gave Jeffries the palm, and
bas had a nest of hornets buzzing about his ears ever
«ince.
• SSI
“W.” writes: “The Sydney sporting public
•shouldn’t miss the first mounted parade of the Mounted
Infantry portion of second N.S. Wales war-contingent.
Upwards of 300 horses have been in the lines at camp for
•over a week, and saddles being not yet available they
mostly did nothing but fill up with hard feed and get fit
to jump out of their shoes. Also a large percentage of
the ‘ Mounted Foot ’ don’t know a horse’s hoof from its
•eyebrow. The ‘offieahs’ who tested the riding capabili-
ties of volunteers were satisfied with some remarkable
expositions of horsemanship, hut their best effort was
their rejection for-being unable to ride of rough-rider,
polo-plavcr, and all-round champion Riverina horseman,
Frank Rudd, of May. Same officers, when sorting out
the Australian Horse mounts regarded as unfit to do
■cavalry work, for exchange with the best Mounted
Infantry nags, sorted out amongst others a little black
borse, and then promptly picked him out of the Infantry
lines as a good cavalry mount, and sent him back to re-
place himself.”
* w m *
A. J. C. inquiry, Thursday last, re alleged in-
consistent running of sensational Kogarah-trained Mora
(Fid* BtJLt,RTiN', par. 6 1 4900), resulted in exoneration of
owner, “Teddy” Knight, and trainer, “ Dick ” O'Connor,
as it was shown that former put £3OO on the mare for
Xmas Handicap; but rider (Frank Fielder) was “sent
up ” for three years. This action requires a lot of under-
standing. Xmas Handicap was run on Roxing Day, and
had anything cronk occurred then, it should have been
seen and dealt with straightaway, and not left till same
nag took part in another race a week later with a different
jockey in the saddle. Ample evidence is forthcoming
that Fielder ptre put a century on Mora himself, and had
a “pony” in owner’s commission for the race wherein
his son Is alleged to have earned the punishment meted
■out. Truly, the ways of the A. J. C. are at times peculiar,
• * * m
What a great game “ backing ’em ” is for
punters was never better evidenced than at Moorefield
(Sydney) on Saturday. Five of twelve entrants started
in the big event. Guardsman, 6to 4, Fortuna, a point
longer, and Cavalier, 4 to 1 against, were the only nags
■deemed to have a chance ; yet old Wvalong (15 or 20 to 1
for the asking) came along at the right end and gathered
in the sweep and the added money (£100) by two lengths,
Small wonder that, Ikey waxes fat.
Tom Payten’s Loohiel filly Skein Dhu was made
an odds-on favorite for the Nursery Handicap at Moore-
field (Byd.) on Saturday last as soon as the books opened ;
but the {rood thin# did not come off. Lucifer, a powerful
Queensland-bred brown colt, by Archie, beat the favorite
fell the way. Gameboy, the winner of the Kogarah Stakes,
is a three-year-old by the Trenton horse Goodfellow, and
won like a racehorse. He is the first of Goodfellow’s
stock the Sydney public have had a win over. Up to the
fifth race the books had a bad time, but in the Moore-
fleld Handicap, the evergreen Wyalong got them some
back ; and the last race was secured by Surbiton, who
started absolutely unbacked.
• • ■ • • •
“ Woman’s Letter” (G/1/’OO) says the only
luxuries to be obtained at the Randwick tea-rooms (New
Year’s Day) were tea, cake and ham sandwiches. Better
luck than writer had previous Saturday, when ’am
sandwiches were “off.” Waitress incautiously left a
quart jug of milk on the table, which writer took a
savage satisfaction in draining to the dregs.
* * * *
Budgeree (Marvellous-F' ue), who once in the
long ago started favorite for a jlarihyrnong Plate, broke
all the watches at Flemington, and afterwards put up a
record at Hawkesbury, turned up again at Meredith
(Vic.) on Boxing Day, where he won a double, beating a
solitary opponent each time. This is his first win for six
years.
• • * •
Whernside’s invincibility at Flemington was
again demonstrated on New Year's Day, when he carried
13st. 21b., and won with a stone in hand, starting at
evens. A peculiar thing is that Whernside has never
won at Caulfield.
* * * *
The Miller stable must be getting pretty tired
of Carbinier, which delusive gee-gee, by the way, was
only leased from the breeder for the term of its racing
life. Carbinier was expected to atone for a number of
failures by winning the Bagot Handicap, at Flemington,
on New Year’s Day, but the son of Carbine ran like a
non-stayer. Talking of non-stayers, the mare Symmetry
bore out the character that W. R. Wilson »;ave her last
year, by tiring very perceptibly at the end of the
Standish Handicap. The Sfandish, 6 furlongs, was cut
out in something under 7&sec. —very fast time for the
Flemington course.
• * * •
The Bulletin’s London correspondent writes :
—“ Kempton Park, over the straws and‘sticks, Nov. 30.
Atmosphere swamped in fog. Trains with stewards and
public arrived an hour late. Picturesque course and sur-
roundings. Fully 100 yards or so of the five races
could be seen, then the fog swallowed up the runners,
and after hiding them for some minutes, belched them
out again for the leaders to be recognised as they passed
the post. Five races were got through between 2 and 4
o’clock, the last being abandoned. * Fell in ’ over four
successive events with my friends, three London racing
editors, all three of us being loaded with dead poultry ;
but when Jimmy Brewer came out on Tornado 11. (J. G.
Clarke) for Sunbury Hurdle, 2 miles, patriotism saved
me, and much plunder came to my shrunken sack.
Jimmy won with graceful ease, and partly avenged his
mount’s recent disqualification for two races at Hawthorn
Hill, on ‘ informal entry.'”
* * * «
It is about time A.J.C. officials took a hint from
the Pony Clubs to which they have been paying so much
attention of late, and did a little towards providing a few
conveniences for their “ flat ” patrons. Every pony club
lets its “flatite” know the starters for each race and
their respective riders, and protects him as much as pos-
sible from ticket-snatchers, etc., but the superiah
A.J.C. absolutely refuses to consider the beastly
common person who parts his humble “ bob ” for
the honor of being yarded up in the centre
of Randwick course on race-days. There the
ticket-grabber, the pickpocket, and the seedy spieler
with the aged gamp, flourish undisturbed ; the scratch*
ings are hung up where no one can see them, unless he
has field-glasses; whilst all information as to riders, &c.,
is kept for the Paddoqjf and Leger reserves. In case
the A.J.C. shouldn't know', it is hereby informed that the
average “flatite” doesn’t take his field glasses to the
races—he leaves them at home, in the jewelled morocco-
case in his dressing-room. Also, that there are jockeys
riding under whom a Carbine couldn’t win a hack-race,
and it’s handy to Jearn what nags they are on, so as to
know what not to back. The “ flatite ” is allowed to pay
one shilling for a large and mostly useless race-book,
however, and toe’s a long-suffering person to stand it.
• * * *
Told of a certain turf institution in Barataria
that when, not very long ago, a crack jockey was carpeted
and ordered to “stand down,” he came out, with blank
amazement depicted on every line of his classic mug, and
said, “ ’Strewth, if that ain’t the ’ottest thing I ever
struck ; why, the last four mounts I had for one o’ them
chaps that disqualified me were as stiff as corpses.” Also
said of an Ikev’s clerk, hauled up before the same body
for laying the odds at a tabooed meeting, that he openly
threatened, if things went against him, to name half-a-
dozen or more of those sitting in judgment and suggest
that they should square-up certain sporting debts, and
look to themselves in other directions so that they might
come into court clean-handed.
« * • *
Wheel Wit, “a selection of satirical, humor-
ous, and entertaining sketches, articles, witticisms and
poems,” is written and illustrated by Leonard Henslowe,
known to Sydney cycling journalism as “ Cyelespeare ”
and “ Phu 1 Pay.” A portrait of the author-artist accom-
panies the booklet, which the average cyclist will find
unusually n ovel and amusing.
• • • •
Amateurism as she is in Sydney. An amateur
athletic body gives two amateur champion swimmers a
cheque each virtually for swimming a match and forming
the big draw of a big gala. By-and-by the promoters
of the event give the whole thing away. An enquiry is
held, and the only one of the two top-notchers get-at-able
toes the mark. He exhibits a receipt showing that por-
tion of the sum said to have been presented went in the
purchase of 6ome article or other, and states that the
balance was to recoup him for leaving his employment to
train. He was acquitted without the slightest smudge
on his athletic character. How would this class of
amateur get on at ’Ome? Then we hear of a professional
swimmer being a vice-president of an amateur club, and
having as much to say in its management as the
purest pot-hunter on the roll. Further, an amateur
athletic club, desiring to include a professional event
on a programme of sports, asked permission of the
governing body in the usual way ; was refused ; hut did it
just the same and one of the A.A.A. officials started the
race. Dire consequences were threatened, but nothing
done. Worse than all, betting discovered to lie rampant
Ikeys taking a hand in the game and lily-white
amateurs found working a nice little scheme, something
of the you-win-to-day-and-111-win-'to-morrow natuie.
Governing body met in solemn conclave over the matter ;
evidence taken ; one prominent delegate admitted having
had a “ biton ” himself : a prominent official and a big
enthusiast resigned disgusted, and—nothing more done.
• * • •*
The unregistered courses down South have a
turf morality entirely their own. At one of them t'other
day a notorious defaulter, who has been warned off ail
registered courses, arranged a nice little game. The lad
on the well-backed favorite was nearly 3st. underweight.
When weighing-in, after winning in a canter, the jock, a
pigskin pigmy, carried saddle and 3 alleged stone of lead
on his left-hand little finder. Then a Hebraic yell went up.
One “ book" lost £4O. It is calculated that the uncon-
scious acoessory to the rascality carried 281 b. under-
weight. At another course not long ago, in a trotting
race, a horse—say Chopsticks—was fixed up to win and
given out as a good thing. Fiddlesticks, the only other
nag with a chance, was deadened by his trainer, who put
all his friends on to Chopsticks. At the last moment the
jock’s pals backed Fiddlesticks at a fair price for all they
were worth. Fiddlesticks won by a neck. An explana-
tion was sought by the trainer behind the stand. “I
couldn’t hold him back,” said the jock. “ You’re a
liar ; you rooked me.” The jock pulled off his coat and
shifted one side of the trainer’s face. The denouement
is that the trainer has been warned off the course for
life !
• * * *
No one who hasn’t “ been there ” himself has a
full idea of the luck, cunning, and determination needed
to make a win “backin’ ’em” at Sydney’s small pony
meetings. It is not enough to pick winners. If a hacker,
after he has sorted out the stiffs and found the only triers
in the race, is not very careful, “ bookie ” will probably
put the name of one of said stiffs on his ticket arid abuse
him blasphemously when he presents it for payment. If he
gets his money on the right horse, and it wins, and no one
has “ gone through ” him meanwhile for the ticket and
his watch and loose cash, and if he manages to dodge the
“ ticket-snatchers” (often employed l>y Ikey himself), and
gets said ticket safely into the hands of the “book,” that
individual will probably' dispute it whilst the “ pick-
pockets” swarm round, and, if he is a large, determined-
looking person with a heavy stick, and eventually does
get paid, his only hope is to button up his coat and run
for a cab.
• * * •
“Moslem”: Remarkable that the boys of
N.S.W. when at play (cricket, football, anything) do not
discard coats or waistcoats, and play in their shirts and
pants, as nippers elsewhere do. Have travelled much
through Australia, but only notice the peculiarity in
N.S.W. Is the mutual distrust of their forefathers in
their blood—or what?
* • * »
11 p.m. in a country pub. Gamey-Leg flashes
the back of a £5-note, rolls it on counter spiral-shape,
and bets £1 nobody can say whether the number is odd
or even. A long stranger (dubbed at once “ The Slab ”)
agrees to bet the £l, if Game.v-Leg will let him feel the
spiral, as he “can do a bit of tliort readin’.” “ Right,”
says Gainey, “you can jest lay yer ’and on it.” Slab
does so, then retires to the passage “to think,” and
gently drifts out of back-door. Gainey, after waiting
some tiu.ie, picks up the. spiral and finds the Slab has
changed the fiver into a single.
* * * *
With .the holiday season coming on, and num-
bers of people either going themselves or sending their
families to the mountains, the enterprising burglars’ har-
vest has begun. Provident people, however, are provid-
ing against his visits by storing their valuables —plate,
jewellery, papers, etc.—at the Sydney Safe Deposit, Ash-
street (hack of Palings), and business there is proportion-
ately' brisk. We would recommend Bulletin readers to
call and inspect the massive vaults, and ascertain terms
for storage. Safes may now be rented upon reduced
terms, and boxes are received for storage at very moder-
ate rates.*
Remarkable obituary from a Queensland
country paper:—
R .—ln memory of , born at
Westmeath, Ireland, November 11, 1853, died at
, Queensland, October 26, 1898.
The bereaved husband who can remember with
pleasure that his departed’s discourse was voluble
is a new and pleasant shock.
An episode of farewell :
A wharf crowd nowadays, witnessing the departure of
coastal steamers, is, as a rule, a composed and stoical
gathering, with emotions well under control, but now
and then a public manifestation of grief takes place quite
in the good old emigrant-ship-departure style of fare-
well. The other day as a steamer was hauling off front
Melbourne Queen’s Wharf, West bound, a young man,
who had up to that moment concealed his grief behind a
large red handkerchief, lost all control of himself. Re-
moving the handkerchief, he burst out into howling sobs
and immediately two girls on board responded in the
same key. Then the young man took off his hat and
threw it to the women. Both made a simultaneous grab
and printed kisses on it, and threw it back to their sob-
bing relative or friend on the wharf. The latter dexter-
ously caught the hat and shied it on board again. Then
one of the girls pressed it to her heart and threw a kiss,
but kept the hat. The steamer was now well away
from the wharf. The hatless and sobbing young
man began to wind the red handkerchief round
his head, pacing the wharf disconsolately. The girl
who had clutched the hat to her heart now bent
well over the taffrail, and holding out both hands,
shrieked. Lord Ullin wise, “ Dear old Patsy—good-bye-
good-bye!” The interest of the crowd had by now cen-
tred on the doings of Patsy and his two responsive lady
friends, and if anybody else had felt any grief of his
own, it was entirely subordinated in presence of the
great and poignant manifestations on the part of Patsy.
The final and despairing adieu from the girl who had
francticaily clutched the headgear to her heart proved too
much for Patsv. Before anybody could interfere, and to
the accompaniment of varied shrieks, he rushed to the
edge of the wharf and leaped into the churned-up, awful
waters of the turbid Yarra. When he came to the surface
he was fished out with a long boat-hook, and no sooner
was he got on to the wharf again than a constable stepped
up, and collaring the dripping Patsy, marched him off to
quod for— attempted suicide ! And after all, as it subse-
quently turned out, the girls were neither sweethearts
nor sisters, but sisters-in-law. One wonders what in the
name of Werther would have happened if the girl
who shrieked “Oood-bve” over the tab-rail had really
been the pledged sweetheart of the perforvid Patsy.
“ A merrier woman
Within the limit of becoming mirth,
None ever spent an hour’s talk withal;
ller eye begat occasion for her wit,
For every object that the one did catch,
The other turned to a mirth-moving jest,
Which the fair tongue (conceit’s expositor)
Delivered in such apt and gracious words
That aged ears played truant at her tales,
And younger hearers were quite ravished,
So sweet and voluble was her discourse.”


AFTER BREAKFAST,
AFTER DINNER
AFTER TEA,
Get out
your
das
Tobacco,
and enjoy that
Luxury,
rifii
s
n GOOD eMOKE
10
rr .iy
TFaison’s . . .
4cm# Camera
The Finest Stock in Australia
OF
HIGHEST CLASS
photographic Cameras
LENSES
AHD
APPARATUS
IS KEPT BY
78 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE
Send for Descriptive Price List. (and LONDON).
A novel device for lighting kerosene table-
lamps by electricity has been invented by Messrs.
Brandt Bros., Lamp Manufacturers, 23C Pitt-st.,
Sydney. By simply touching a button the lamp
is lighted. This can also be used for lighting their
new acetylene gas table-lamps. The firm are now
busy altering the ’bus lamps on the South Head
line to burn acetylene gas. They also send
pamphlets on application how to light-up dwel-
lings with acetylene gas.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
Not one of the Melb. papers, daily or
weekly, has had the courage to tell the truth
about the Second Contingent. Practically any-
body not whiteheaded or deformed could get into
it. One youth, with more pluck than sense,
volunteered after spending half of the last 18
months on a sick bed with congestion of the lungs
—and was accepted 1 Another man practically
dying of consumption is bound for the Trans-
vaal, and the varicose veins, unsound teeth and
“riding injuries” which were said to be such
fatal objections at the time the first contingent
was sent, have been entirely overlooked. Worst
of all, however, is the hopeless ignorance of riding
betrayed by about a third of the men. Many of
these have manifestly ridden nothing but a bicycle
before, and their inability to keep upright on the
saddle of a walking horse causes the officers in
charge to use fearful language in private. To send
70 or 80 young fellows into a hostile country hold-
ing on by both hands to the front of the saddle is
a melancholy game, but “ the honor of England ”
demands that the painful fact should be hushed
up.
Ligmolliene Cream Soap is a pure, neutral,
strongly antiseptic, and curative soap, for the
treatment of parasitic and the various superficial
affections of the skin, among which may be men-
tioned, itching, prickly-heat, chapped hands, sun-
burn, etc. It allays instantaneously all irritation
and soreness, and is especially valuable for the
cleansing of wounds and ulcers. It will also be
found a thorough luxury for shampooing, effectu-
ally cleansing the scalp from dandruff, and for all
nursery and bath purposes. It is sold in oval
tablets at Is. each, stamped with the trademark
“Ligmolliene,” and may be obtained from all
chemists throughout Australasia.*
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING-, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE,
Rochester Lodge
ear Superior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'CJLELLAND
(nss BOLGEB).
A
THE
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE,
AS THE NAME IMPLIES!,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK (SRIMLEY
Sole PistribCitiog AgeQt
for Australasia . . .
IMPORTER, FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-205 Clarence Street , Sydney.
d
A
1
sad
ď
ad
THE GREAT
HAIR PRODUCER
and RESTORER.
The Very Finest Dressing-, Specially
Prepared and Delicately Perfumed
for the Toilet.
“HARLENE”
Produces Luxuriant Hair, Prevents Its Falling
Off or Turning Grey.
UNEQUALLED FOR PROMOTING THE GROWTH OF
THE BEARD AND MOUSTACHE.
THE RENOWNED
REMEDY FOR BALDNESS .
mF
For Preserving, Strengthening, and Rendering the Hair Beautifully Soft; for Removing Scurf, Dandruff, Ac. also for
RESTORING GREY HAIR TO ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
“ HARLENF " PRESERVES, STRENGTHENS, AND INVIGORATES CHILDREN’S HAIR.
Full desi 'ption and directions lor use in zo languages supplied with every bottle.
1/., 2/6 and (triple 2/6 size; 4/6 per Bottle from Druggists &c., all over the World.
“HARLENE” Co., High Holborn, LONDON, ENGLAND.
M E
JQON’T BORE
with anything whilst
Hatte’s'OHIEDTFIIS
II vis OI .<“•
I’m off there, and so will be everybody else
when they know of the
Great Bargains in Every Department
Crowds flocked to our establishment yesterday,
and the fun was great. Come with the crowd.
THE FAIR
is too big a thing to deal with in a single notice.
The whole newspaper could contain only a tithe
of the
WONDERS lIATTE IS SHOWING,
and of the
GENUINE GIFTS HE IS PLACING BEFORE YOU. .
For the moment we will talk of the
MEN’S AND BOY’S CLO’.’ - UNO AND MERCERY.
Here are a few lines w: :ui.
ill aston
Fair Pi ,oe Worth
... 8s ltd 18s Ud
... 123 lid
21s 9d
25s lid
35s Od
2s 9Jd 3s lid
8s lid 25s Od
557 Men’s Tweed Suits
694 Men’s Soft Serge Suits
740 Men’s Indigo Serge Suits ...
1260 Men’s Beaver and Printed
Mole Trousers
150 Men’s Light Summer Lounge
Suits
1673 Men’s Tweed Tros., all shades 2s lljd 6s 9d
600 doz. Men’s Butcher Blue
Shirts C. and P.
150 doz. Men’s Silk Stripe Shirts.
87 doz. Men’s Pyjama Suits ...
160 doz. Men’s Ovenander Hats,
Straw
Is 3}d 1 lljd
Is »jd 2s lljd
2s Old 6s Od
Is 3Jd 3s lid
HATTE has revolutionised the Tailoring Trade.
SUIT, with an extra Pair of Trousers given in, at
£2 25., in Serge, Tweed, and Sergerette.
Our 50s. INDIGO SERGE SUIT is not to be
Equalled in the Trade for 655.
Write for Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms.
WRITE for COPY of “ FAIR BOOK,” FREE.
Penny Post-oard will do.
Carriage Paid by Rail or Boat on £2 Parcel.
C. <5. HATTE, Hcwtowi).
11
W-
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Elis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - • GKO. W. KLLIS.
Amusements.
HF,U MAJESTY’S THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
THIRD WEEK THTRD
AND CONTINUED BRILLIANT TRIUMPH OF
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S 18th XMAS ANNUAL,
the Gorgeous, Spectacular, Comic, Original Pantomime,
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD,
Or, Keeping the Wolf from the Door.
Plan, Nicholson’s. ISF” PRICES —65., 35., 25., and Is,
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. Tallis. Treas., R. Stewart, Senior.
LAST 2 NIGHTS OF
THe Only Way,
Or, A Tale of Two Cities.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 13th, 1900, for the first time
in Australia,
“ TESS OF THE D’URBERVILLES.”
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Eivy’s and Co.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT, at 7.45. TO-NIGHT.
THIRD WEEK
of Mr. CHARLES HOLLOWAY and his POPULAR
DRAMATIC COMPANY,
in the Stupendous Dramatic Success,
THE POWER AND THE GLORY.
Prices as Usual. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.45.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mn. Harry Rickards.
LAST WEEK LAST WEEK
At the PALACE THEATRE of MR. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS and SPECIALTY COMPANY.
The Great NEWSKY FAMILY, Professor DAVY'S
MARIONETTES, G. W. HUNTER, Raconteur, Little
Fanny Powers, Howard Chambers, and a host of others.
Matinees Every SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
SATURDAY, January 20, at CRITERION THEATRE.
Qli ITER lON THEATRE.
Welcome Re-appearance of Mr. WALTER BENTLEY
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
And for a Short Season Only,
in the World-Renowned Classical Comedy Drama,
DAVID GARRICK,
Supported by the full strength of Messrs. Weir and
Ancelon’s Dramatic Company.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Early Doors, 6.65 till 7.16, 6d. extra.
Commence at 8.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
• Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Our Brilliant New First Part Entitled,
ARCADIA.
Re-appearance of TOM COSTELLO, in an Entirely
New Repertoire.
TO-NIGHT, BEAUTIFUL and BEWITCHING,
The Three MACARTE SISTERS.
LITTLE ALMA GRAY, SPRY and AUSTIN, Wallace
King, Elsie Golding, Luiu Zeseh, Will Whitburn, Chas.
W. Cogill, and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
| ENTHUSIASTIC AUDIENCES.
I TUMULTUOUS SUCCESS. CROWDED NIGHTLY.
The Burlesque Opera,
“Little Christopher Columbus
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as MRS. BLOCK.
MISS GRACIE WIIITEFORD as LITTLE CHRISTOPHER
Full Opera Band—The Excelsior. Troop of Dancers.
Prioes—Ba., 2a., la. 6d., la., and 6d. Box Plan at Allan’
“ Cockney ” protests :
I didn’t try to “ bolster-up couponism ” in the letter
which has elicited a chorus of small yelps from small
shopkeepers. I merely said that any sort of open com-
petition in shop business has as much right to toleration
as any sort of open competition in all other businesses, and
that Parliament belittles itself by stooping to kill a system
which would die a natural death if left alone.
Advantage was taken of the New-Year Cale-
donian gathering at Sydney to boom once more
the “ glory ” of the Transvaal war. Premier
Lyne affirmed that it made his blood tingle
when he heard of the courage of the British
Empire in fighting two little nations whose
joint population is about one-third of Mel-
bourne’s. Dr. MacLaurin also tingled (it is
noticeable that the people who fought
hardest against Australian Federation arc
the loudest Jingoes of them all). “ The war,”
said Dr. MacLaurin, “has been shamefully
forced upon the British by the conspiracy at
Bloemfontein and Pretoria.” If the Tory
Councillor doesn’t know better than that, be
might consult English thinkers like Herbert
Spencer and James Bryce, who, with a much
better knowledge of the matter, affirm that the
boot is on the other leg. The conspiracy which
begot Jameson’s Raid and Chamberlain’s
Raid is an English conspiracy, and the only
one of which there is evidence.
“ Bill ” . On Christmas Eve, the ash
gentleman, who regularly once a week in the dead
of night snatches me from the arms of Morpheus,
left a printed memo, asking me not to forget him.
On the other side were the words: “ Use
Blankam’s Pills.” Present writer is of opinion
that if the quarries of Sinai were thoroughly
searched a mislaid commandment of the above
description would be found.
Tasmania, as befitteth the most Tory and
most abjectly grovelsome province of the
group, is the most frantically patriotic in the
matter of the Boer hunt. The newspapers are
issuing incorrect reprints of Kipling’s absent-
minded jinerle at fid. a copy, proceeds to go to the
Patriotic Fund. Any Boer sympathiser, or any-
body who looks like a Boer sympathiser, is in
danger of stoush. The other day a party of blue-
jackets from the warships in the Derwent wrecked
a poor old man’s garden because the loyal
and partially blind old citizen had, in
sheer ignorance, hoisted his Xmas flag up-
side down. The old chap wore a long beard in
addition to his other offence, and the frantic blue-
jackets, having heard that Boers always wore long
beards, concluded that every long beard must de-
note Boer proclivities, and opened fire accordingly.
The ancient hadn’t the faintest notion what it
was all about until most of his raspberry bushes
and fruit trees were scattered over the roadway.
Rumored that the Patriotic Fund Committee is to
be asked to pay the damage on the ground that it
arose out of patriotic fervor.
Queensland has had its usual Xrnas and
New Year butchery. One Snow, who lately re-
sided near St. George, had been “ keeping com-
pany ” for some time with Miss Goward, and last
week he appears to have strolled round during the
small hours, and without warning or parley shot
the young lady’s brother whom he found sleeping
on the verandah. Mrs. Goward, hearing the re-
port, rushed out and was shot with the other
barrel, anil then finished off with an axe. Mean-
while Miss Goward seems to have fled but was
pursued and overtaken by her lover. At day-
break they were found about a mile-
and-a-half away by a boy. He saw Snow
give the girl a drink and take one him-
self, from a bottle, which was afterwards found to
contain strychnine. Shortly after, the girl said,
“ I’m in terrible pain, Ted. Cut my throat to
put me out of pain.” And with the wondering
boy looking on, Snow cut the girl’s throat and
then attempted to cut his own. Finding he had
not sufficient nerve, he threw the knife and his
coat to the boy, and told him to take them to the
township. When the police and a doctor
arrived the murderer was dead also, apparently
from the effects of the poison. The emblems of
true love in Australia are a meat-axe, double-
barrelled gun, and poison bottle ; and true love
itself is apt to end either in butchery, because the
girl won't say yes, or marriage and then butchery
afterwards because she did say it. Also, in
murders committed through jealousy, the de-
mented one seems to be consumed with a burning
desire to wipe out all the family, down to the dog
and the tribal goat. Why the rejected Australian
can’t be content with one murder is hard to ex-
plain, and seems to suggest that we are developing
the East Indian proclivity to run amuck.


STEWART DAWSON & CO.
-
HO MIDDLEMEN’S PROFITS! Prices Save you 25 to 50 per cent.
No. Es72l.—Elegant Bird Brooch,
Whole Pearl, 15c. Gold, £ll6B.
No. 155.—Artistic Scroll Brooch, 18 Fine
Diamonds, 2 Whole Pearls, 3 Sapphires,
£8 10s.
s
No. 560. —Elegant Brooch, 21 Fine Diamonds,
5 Sapphires, £8 7s 6d.
No. E 5629. —New Lucky Bell Brooeb
9c. Gold, 10s 6d.
No. 146.—15 c. Gold Bracelet, 3 Diamonds 2 Sapphires,
£4 10s.
No. 208.—16 c. Gold
Heart, 10s. 6d ;
9c. ditto, 6s 6cL
No. E 2448. —New Desiyn, Bird and Amethyst
Brooch, 9c. Gold, 12s. 6d.
No. 206. —9c. Gold Neck Chain, 11s 6d.
No. 214.—Neck Chain, 9c. 18s 6d; 15c. £l lsa.
No. 213.—9 c. Gold Neck Chain, £1 2s 6d.
No. 215. —Peart-amS
Ruby Heart, fflc. -Gol<S„
16s ©a.
INo. 141a.—9c. Gold Buckle Bracelet, set Rubies and
Pearls, £2 10s.
NO. E5206.—9c. Gold “ Prince of Wales ” Long Muff Chain.
Finest make, £2 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, £5 10s.
No. 282.—Silver Boot Button Hook, 8s 6d.
Shoe Lift to match, 10s 6d.
Glove Button Hook, 2s 6d.
No. E5203.— 9e. Gold Long Muff Chain, J 63 5s ;
15c. Gold, £6 15s.
Ladies’ Silver Mounted Hair finishes,
20s, 22s 6d, 255, 27s 6d, 30s, 355.
As Illustration, £1 2s 6d.
Silver Mounted Combs,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d.
As Illustration, 10s 6d,
9c. Pearl Initial Brooch,
any Letter, 6s 6d.
No. 271a.—Solid Silver Hat Brush,
6iin. long, 11s 6d.
Glove Stretcher, Solid Silver Handles, Ivory Points
13s 6d, 15s 6d, 18s 6d, 22s 6d.
As Illustration, £1 2 6d.
No. 17?. —Finest White
Diamond; £lB 10s to £4O.
No. 162.
S fine Diamonds, 18c.,
£4 17s 6d.
No. 261. —Medal.
9c. Gold, £1 Is ; 15c.£117s 6d
Silver, 3s 6d.
No. 103a.— 18c. Band
Ring, set Fine Diamond,
from £3 to £6 10s.
I
No. 171a.—18c. Gold,
6 Fine Opals, £2 10s.
No. 220.—Gent.’s Gold Alberts.
9c. Gold, £4 10 6 15c. Gold, £7 10 0
9c. Double, 6 15 0 15s. Double, 10 16 0
Silver, 14s 6d
Double, 20s.
No. 179a.—Set Links.
Bc. Gold, £1 Is. 15c. Gold, £2
Silver, 6s 6d.
Silver Platerl Serviette
Ring's, hexagon
design, 58.
9c., 15s 6d ; 15c„ Jel 10s.
Silver, 4s. iv».
I
0
No. 142. —Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9c. Gold, £3 3s ; 15c. Gold, £5 10s.
Smaller Sizes in 9c., 35s and 50s.
Smailer Sizes in 15c., 65s and 87s 6d.
9c. Gold, £3 17 6
9c. Double, 6 0 0
Gent.’s Gold Alberts.
15c. Gold, £6 0 0
16c. Double, 9 10 0
lss
Double, 21s.
No. 175.—Carved Half
Hoop, 5 Fine Diamonds,
£l7 10s, £22, £25 to £5O.
18c. Gold Wedding’
Rings,
21s, 255, 30s, 355, 50s.
No. 23XA —lsc. Gold Locket,
set with 3 Diamonds and
4 Sapphires, £4 10s.
No. 182. Marquise
Ringfs, Fine White
Diamonds,
£lslos, £2O, £2u - £4O
No. 167.—1 Diamond,
2 Rubies, 18c. Gold,
£2 ss.
ds
9c. Gold, £2 17
9c. Double, 3 17
Gent's Gold Alberts.
6, £3 3 0 15c. Gold, £4 17 6, £5 17 6 Silver, 8 6
6, £4 15 0 15c. Double, 615 0, 10 10 0 Double, 12 0
No. 196a.— Set Links.
9c. Gold, 17s 6d. 15c.
Gold, £l lss. Silver, 4/6
Silver Plated Serviette
Ring, semi-circular or tri-
angular designs, ss.
No. 200a. —Set Links.
9e. Gold, 18s 6d. 15c. Gold,
£1 15s. Silver, 5s Cd.
Fine Silver-Plated Shaving Mug and
Brush, 35s.
New Design Toast Rack, Silver-Plated,
Finest Out-Glass, Silver
Top, 14s 6d, 21s, 30s,
Pair Silver-Plated Knife Bests, 21s.
Silver-Plated Out-Glass
Butter Dish, with
Knife, £1 2s 6d.
b’ull Set Combination Brushes and Manicure Instruments,
Solid Silver, Mounted in Handsome Case, £B.
Dainty Serviette Holders,
Solid Silver, 3s 6d. Silver-Plated, Is.
Silver-Plated Egg Frame, 255.
No. E4oB6. —Silver-Plated Sugar Bowl, witb
Sifter, 15s 6d.
Marmalade Jar and Spoon.
Cut-Glass and Silver-
Plated, 6s 6d.
Cut-Glass Scents,
Silver Top, 11s 6d,
21s, 255, 30s.
No. E64l3.—Silver Mounted Cloth Brush.
Elaborately chased, 12}4in. long, £2 10s.
Handsome Toilet Set.
Finest Cut-Glass and Solid Silver Mounts, 5 Pieces, £lO.
No. B3732.—Combination Spirit-Stand and Cisrar Cabinet.
Handsome Oak Frame, Nickel Silver Mounts, Finest Cut-Glass Bottles, £5.
Silver Fruit Knives, Pearl Handles,
2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s fid, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s txi each.
No. 340.—Elegant Silver-Plated Ink Stand, llin. long, 2 Cut-
Crystal Bottles ; Emu, Kangaroo, or Horso, in centre, £2 10s.
NOTE.--The various illustrations shown above are engraved from the articles direct. Intending
orwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance. New Bookt.Et of Spk 'Talties (80 pares) Post Free.
purchasers may rely on the new and requisite character of the goods, any of which will be
STEWART DAWSON & CO., 412 George Street, and Strand, Sydney, N.S.W.
LOKTDOKr, A.XJ OKLAKT3D, PERTH.


NHrRaSSnjGSSco’S Alfalii)* Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc,
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
Mr. C. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness oi the virtues of the
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12,1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
I suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.
I also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
which completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
which has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but tc
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can be depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Sciatica Cured.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir,—Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oe&efit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—Your wonderful Alfaline Vitality Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,—Having just
finished the course of Alfaline Blood Pills and Alfaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
How to obtain “Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
just drop A letter into
the first Letter Box*
addressed to
Herr RASSMITSSEN,
547 George-st.,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
riiiiiMn tiTiiii iiiTirn inrnirifritjiiT) 1 1 Mm n un mMiM
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
Jnost useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
Scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A if aline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
A LFALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted, xms
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
J Course. 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying’ the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance,
BOXES, 6s, ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING-••
Patrons of Herr Rass-
mussen’s A Lf aline Her-
bal Remedies arehereby
cautioned against
being imposed upon by
several unscrupulous
persons, who travel
through the country
setting out that they
are Herr Rassmus-
sen , or Herr Rass-
mussen’s authorised _
agents—which state-
ments are absolutely
false, as Herr Rass-
mussen does not travel
selling his Remfd'es,
neither has he autho-
rised any person to
sell his Remedies or
Herbs any where.
c*
Herr Rassmussen, TJp-to-Dale Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ ■ ■ WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
’ anyone of imitating the
Aif aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALFALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH, ” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSHIUSSen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVKC FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSHIUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus -
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered. .
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering
Mr. THOMAS MOOT MAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
S fcreet Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory OSIS* Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows: —
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that,
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rass-
Mussen’s Purely Herbal ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which 1 hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and although
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALF ALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS. Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders— A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming-the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills— a Wonder-
ful Remedy for < oughs, Colds, consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; ftested, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo >derful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
rr Rassmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., SUDOSII,
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS: * _
ad
IV. Z, WELLINGTON 91 Eambton Quay
PERTH, W.A. Hay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOIiG-ARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
sad


OVULATION ONLY.-Subscriptipns having been already received for moit of the shares offered, applicants will probably not receive an allotment for the full number applied for
enough the allotment will be made as nearly as possible pro rata among the applicants.
PROSPECTUS OF THEH
GRASSY GULLY GOLD MINING CO. (No Liability).
CAPITAL - - £40,000.
In 40,000 Shares of £1 each, of which 10,000 are now offered for subscription, payable 2s. on application, 6d. on allotment, and the
balance as required.in calls of not more than Gd. per month.
All the money subscribed will be placed to the credit of the Company for working capital, the vendors taking only paid-up shares in full payment for the property.
DraEOTOKS : Hon. GK°. DAY, M.L.C., “ Arleston,” Petersham ;W. H. C. LOVELY, Esq., “ Cranbrook,” Rose Bav; CHARLES WENTWORTH DTLKE, Esq., Bligh Chambers, Sydney ; HUGH
Terrara Nowra Solicitors: Messrs. McDONNELL & MOFEITT. 355 George-street,* Sydney. Bankers: BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney, Secretary:
Exchange Sydney ’ ’ 3 MerCantlle Bauk Cliambers . Margaret-street, Sydney. Office: 3 Mercantile Bank Chambers, Margaret-street, Sydney. Brokers: T. B. BEARUP, Stock
AREA AND SITUATION.—This Co. is being formed to acquire, develop, and work the gold-leases constituting
the Grassy Gullv Gold Mine, comprising gold-leases 938 and 943 (Southern), marked No. 18 and 17 respectively on
plans, and situated' near -Currier close to the Shoal haven River about 18 nnles from Nowra, containing seven (7)
acres, also a residence area and all mining plant and requisites now in use, under an agreement dated the 13th De-
cember, 1899, between W. 11. C. Lovely, Hugh McKenzie, and James Barron of the one part, and Charles Wentworth
Duke for and on behalf of the Company as Trustee of the other pare, whereby the vendors will receives 30,000 fully-
paid shares.
OBJ LOTS. —The object of the flotation is to provide working capital to properly develop the mine and enable a
large output to be obtained. The amount offered is deemed ample for the purpose.
. VALUE OF ORE BODIES.—The mine is the first which was discovered at Grassy Gully. Some of the younger
mines are being worked with apparently good results, thus proving the continuity of the ore bodies now being
opened up in the parent mine. The value and prospects of the mine are clearly demonstrated by the smelting
returns and report appended hereto, and from them and the ordinnry reports is taken the following information :
SMELTING RETURNS.
Nearly all the ore treated to date has been taken out of the development works on the mine, only one short
stope having been made and no reef having been exposed but that at the two shafts, and almost all of that taken out
proved very rich.
Three reefs have been found on the mine, but only two have been opened up.
REEF I.—On the main reef which underlies slightly to the west a shaft has been sunk to a depth of 128 ft. The
lode averages 4ft. in width, but the rich vein, which yields the best ore, is loin, in width arid increased in value from
Boz. of fine gold per ton near the surface to over 21oz. at 120 ft., excluding silver.
At 117 ft. a fault occurred, but a few feet further another chute of ore was met, yielding 3oz. per ton, which in-
creased to within a few grains of lOoz. per ton at 128 ft., the old chute apparently being left to one side of the present
bottom of the shaft.
. In sinking this shaft the last 40ft. about 80 tons of ore have been raised, which realised about £4OOO at the smelt-
ing works, after making deductions for loss in treatment.
REEF 2.—On No. 2 reef a shaft has been sunk 40ft., in which this reef averages 12in. to 15in. iniwidlh and 2oz. to
4oz. 16d wt. of fine gold per ton.
Driving, crosscutting, and tunnelling hag been begun, but no ore body of importance has yet been proved by
these works.
DUMP.—From the mullock dump, where there are many hundred tons of stuff, have been screened 60 tons of
fines, which yielded about £5OO net at the smelting works.
BACKS.—As the shaft is situated approximately 60ft. up the side of a steep hill the height of backs available for
stoping will quickly increase as the south drive advances.
TIMBER AND WATER are abundant in the immediate vicinity. The water obtained from the mine is not pure
enough for drinking, and for this purpose it is obtained from the creek and stored for the summer. A good supply is
also obtainable from the Shoalhaven River, about a mile distant.
RIVER CARRIAGE is available for a distance of about fifteen (15) miles above Nowra, and the ore is conveyed
by steamer to Nowra and thence to Dapto by train.
SECOND CLASS ORE.—Average value per ton (less deduction): 6oz. 19dwt. 15-69gr.—£28 7s. 2d.
TOTALS.—49tons 4cwt. Iqr. Slbs. 3440 z. 14dwt. 6Jgr.—£l39s 17s. 2d.
THIRD GRADE ORE.—Average Value (less deduction): 2ozs. 7dwts. Ogrs.—£9 7s. 6d.
TOTALS.—77tons 6dwt. Iqr. lllbs. lSlozs. 2dwts. 17grs.—£724 14s. Id.
Report of the Grassy Gully Gold Mine,
ny JAMES EEILSOy, M.E.
MESSRS. LOVELY & McKENZTE.
Dear Sirs, — In compliance with your request that I should give an unbiassed report of the value and capabili-
ties of your property, known as the GRASSY GULLY OOLD MINE, I have the honour of supplying you with the
following particulars :■ —
THE MlNE.—This is situated at Grassy Gully, 17 miles distant, in a westerly direction from the township of
Nowra. on the South Coast. The area held is seven acres, being two leases of four and three acres combined. There
are TWO DISTINCT LODES PROVED TO BE PAYABLE, AND OF VERY HIGH GRADE ORE, AND ONE
LARGE OUTCROP PROVED gold-bearing in the three-acre lease, and it is mv opinion that this will turn out to be
a payable lode when it is further developed.
No. 1 SHAFT is where the most development, has heen done, and is termed the No. 1 Lode. The Shaft is now
down 128 ft. on the underlay. The formation of the lode between the walls is 4ft. in width, but the portion that
carries the richest of the gold averages 10 inches in width, which is on the foot-wall side. At 117 ft. in depth a slide
came in front the south, dipping north at an angle of 25°, and this has been the means of shifting the rich chute of
gold 40ft. further to the north. Immediately under the slide there was a change of ore, which was of poorer grade,
the lode, however, still continued in its usual course to the westward. The poor ore continued for Bft. in depth, but,
during the last 3ft. of sinking, it has improved considerably, and has every appearance of opening out into another
rich chute of ore. I may state that this chute is quite a different thing to what we were working above the slide,
and should it turn out as I anticipate it will be the means of enhancing the value of your property considerably.
STOPING AND DRIVING.—The extent of stoping and driving is somewhat limited, owing to the short period
the property has been worked. At the 78ft,. level there is a drive 36ft. south and one 30ft. north on the course of
the lode, the lode showing about the same size in both ends. What stoping has been done is to the north of the
shaft above the 78ft. level, and is 15ft. in length by 30ft,. in height, and all the ore that came from the stopes and
sinking of the shaft was of a very high grade, averaging from 3 to 220 z. per ton.
No. 2 LODE.—What is termed No 2 lode is situated chains to the east of No. 1 lode. There is a shaft sunk
to a depth of 38ft. on the underlay. The ore averages from Ift. to 15in. in width. The ore is of fair grade, averaging
front 2oz. to 4oz. 16dwt. per ton. The lode is still going down strong in the bottom and the chute of gold is dipping
south. We are now engaged repairing shaft and erecting whip, so as to further develope this lode.
NO. 3 LODE.—What is termed No. 3 Lode is situated on the three-acre lease, and is one chain west of the No. 1
Lode, and as 1 have already stated, by surface indications showing, it appears to me to be the main Assure lode, but
no work having heen done here it is impossible for me to give any details.
MACHINERY.—The hauling appliance you have at present is of a primitive nature, and what is wanted badly is
a STEAM WINDING WINCH AND A SMALL FORCE PUMP, so as to be able to cope with the bottom water that
we must, naturally expect to meet with as depth is attained. With this appliance erected on the ground, I HAVE
NO HESITATION WHATEVER IN SAVING THAT YOU HAVE A MOST VALUABLE PROPERTY, and that it
would increase the dividends most considerably.
1 have the honor to be, gentlemen, your obedient servant,
4th November, 1899. (Signed) JAMES NEILSON, Manager.
Remittances to be made payable to the Secretary, and ONE of the Arst two mentioned Sydney Directors.
Dapto Smelting' Returns.
FIRST GRADE ORE.
Date.
1808.
mil ort.
7th Dec.
1890.
Bth Murch
17th April
25th liny
Bth Nov.
Bth Nov.
•c 2
S 3 IT
o o
Sterling Value of Yield.
6
07
7
9 19
715
11 2
13, 3
5
3 11
.. 21
3
3 26 21
1 24 20
918 4
14 14 4
2 9
5 1 8
15 23
I
| Deduct
for loss of
O Gold,
10 15
II 9
3 4
5%
5%
5%
5 X
nil
nil
nil
I’aid
per oz.
80/-
80/-
80/-
80/-
8) 6
81 6
81/0
£ 8. d.
11 12 2
207 8 10
263 11 10
637 14 0
671 11 0
960 1 7J
1116 8 81
Remark!.
Samples of failing's from small battery
from ore from Main Shaft (No. 1) on
No. 1 I-ofle.
Ore from Main Shaft on No. 1 Lode.
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Ditto
Average Per To.n (less deductions): 10 ozs. 19 dwts. 9 prs. £69 11*. Od.
Totals: 51 tons 5 cwt. 1 qr. 151 b. 930 ozs. 3 dwts. 23 grs. £3,771 9*. 2d.
NEW CENTURY NOVELTIES
£2
m
m
Silver
Solid
and
Finely
Enamelied
Souvenir
of
Sydney
HAT PIN,
5s 6d.
Plain
Silver
without
Enamel,
3s.
BROOCHES,
3s 6d & 5s 6fl.
Gold, 13s 6d.
LATEST NOVELTY BROOCH.
Solid Gold Crook Stick and Bird, 14s.
Solid Gold Crook Stick, without Bird, 8s Cd.
LATEST XMAS
NU\ EIjTY.
TWIN BROOCH,
Plain Gold Bird and
Pearl-set Lovers’
Knot, 16s 6d.
Same Style,
with Pearl-set Bird,
and Lovers’ Knot,
20s.
Solid
Silver
lIAT
PINS,
Length
7 inches
sad
Any
Initial.
Extra
Strong.
3s.
Each.
PENDANTS,
Silver, 2/6, 3/-, & 5/6.
Gold, 13/6.
HUNDREDS OF
OTHER DESIGNS.
RECB
sad
Our New
TWIN
BIRD
BROOCHES.
Plain Gold,
7s 6(1 pair.
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s Oil pair.
Set. with
5 Turquoise, lOsGd.
Pearls and
Turquoise, 12a6d. .
6 Opals, 15s & 21s.
Solid Gold,
14s pair.
With any Monogram.
Our Registered
Novrllv
bird imoocn,
Extra Strong.
18c., set. with 3
Lovely Ihamonils,
60a.
SWORD PIN,
Chain and Gem,
Heart or Lucky
Bell, Solid Gold,
14s 6d each.
REG
9c. Gold,
16s pair.
15p. OoM,
20s pair.
We have an
Immense Stock of
Fancy
HAT PiNS,
from Is (>d to 5s 6d
each.
LUCKY
SHAMROCK
CHARM,
Set with 1 Pearl,
2 Amethysts,
and 1 Topaz, or
Obsidion, 4s.
Solid Hold
BIRD PENDANT,
set with 17 lovely
Opals, 15s.
LATEST
LONDON
FASHION
SILVER
PLATED
BELTS.
swat
rig
ss
E i-v
Tt':#
£OM
WILL FIT ANY
WAIST.
7s, 6s 6<l, 6s, 5s 6d.
20 different Patterns
PLEASE SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED
SLIPS OF LATEST NOVELTIES.
ALL ARTICLES SENT POST
FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
%
Solid Gold Faith,
Hope, and Charity
PENDANT, 5s each.
With Pin and
Chain, 8s 6d.
WA
NOTH.—Our Oyt,T Australian Address— 9o KING STREET, SYDNEY.
T he national Cash Register.
A National Cash Kegister protects
the cash
. ..-i ' i ’’
It protects the customer.
It protects the shopkeeper.
It protects the books-
It protects the assistant-
It makes occasional purchasers
regular customers-
sad
sa
It causes credit customers to buy
for cash-
Prices from £5 to £6B.
Full Information
on application to
Natiooal Cash Register
COMPANY.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TV. A. LESTGHAM, General Manager.


Business Announcements.
fjellular “^ertex”
For Base,
Health and
Comfort.
TTnderwear.
mr DURING SUMMER. ■»
Ladies’ Department :
Combinations, Undervests, Nightdresses,
Bodices, etc., in Lisle, Cotton, Silk and
Cotton, Silk and Wool, Natural Wool,
Merino, and Pure silk.
CELLULAR CORSETS.
Gentlemen’s Department:
Singlets, Pants, Pyjamas, Night Shirts, Day
Shirts and Dress Shirts, Cycling Shirts, etc.
«3T CELLULAR FABRIC in Cotton, Lisle
Thread, Merino, or Silk and Wool, by the yard.
Patterns posted on application.
Pamphlets and Price Lists post free.
Sole Agents :
Qivid |raham $ Co.,
73 & 75
King-st.,
Sydney
(between George and York streets).
AMUSEMENT for OLD and TOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
blow n out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments). Wizard Paok of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Phol ograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tion-! enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address In Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. od.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716J4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
XJSB
Spoopgr’S
HUMIUVIHSK
FOR * ■*}.
1 BROWN LEA.THEH'
BOOTS & SHOES
§ OF AIU DESCRIPTIONS
| directions for use
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation.
Liquid Blacking.
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
Medical.
Too Pat
ANTI-
CORPULENE
reduces weight
permanently and
radically by easy,
safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet, pills, and nauseous drugs
Unnecessary at Obesity and its Cure,” an instructive
pamphlet sent in sealed envelope, 4 stamps
Address —L. Edwin Wesley 89 Pitt St., Sydney.
ROW TO PRESERVE THE EYESIGHT
I send this little book free on application to
Sayers, Allport & Potter, Sydney.
It tells of a remedy with 300 years reputation.
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT curesalleye
disorders. Get a genuine pot from any Chemist
—Proprietor, STEPHEN GREEN, 210 Lambeth
Road, London, S.E.
I Cure Fits.
not asked \
to spend |
any money to test whether my |
remedy does or does not cure $
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance, *
&c. All you are asked to do is to X
send fora FREE bottle of medi= )
cine and to try it. I am quite t
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy. |
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION. <
H. G. ROOT, 38, Endsleigh Gdns., LON DON. j
Tfe§ LiqOor Habit.
AN INTERESTING PAMPHLET on the
Disease of Drunkenness and its cure by
EOcrasy
will be sent free (sealed) on
application to the EUCRASY
CX)., 62 Hunter-street, Sydney, or 271 Collins-
street, Melbourne.
N.B. — Eucrasy is registered by the N.S.W.
Registrar-General at the Trade Marks Office, and
is the only remedy which can be given secretly
( i.e without the subject’s knowledge) with cer-
tainty of success.
. 1
grimaults
irSDfAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and ,2 p £ r ««?£
immediately relieved b.y GRIMAULT & CO .3
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
BALL & WELCH
PROPRIETARY, Ltd..
DRAPERS * FURNISHERS,
MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE!
Opp. Flinders St. Statiok.
CARLTON, CASTLEMAINE.
Basinghall Avenge, London E.CL
The Life of the System.
os spa.
S. FREEMAN ✓ SONS L!»y™
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAP OFFICE : WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
REGISTERED
£^£ S RKt«5
tra
.
fei-JCHTtaFLAlSs EtES&llOS
Weak Eyis DfKNiss ETF
CEB
SSI GEORGE ST
LABEL
The Greatest Discovery of Modern Times
for ALL EYE COMPLAINTS
arising: from any cause whatever.
ASK FOR —■-
ROSE’S
Celebrated Eye Lotion
A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Sandy Blight, Granulations, Dimness of Sight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids, Weak Eyes, caused by dust, Sun-glare,
&c., Swelling Blight caused by bites of flies, insects, &c.
Largely used by Ride Shooters and Professional Men of all Classes.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Used with equal suc-
cess on the Byes of
Cattle. Sheep, Poul-
try, &c.
Sold by all CHEMISTS and
STOREKEEPERS.
Sole Proprietor
H. A. ROSE, Chemist,
631 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
vS
4
!7m
V/>-
'Orhi
m
i
When
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
■ ELECTRICAIj APPLIANCES, invented by
; Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
s strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
: CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
| THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
j DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
! LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
. Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
• brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 1 10 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 3 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
FEDERAL
PALACE
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation—all prices- ss. to 12s.
per day. 80s. to JE3 10s. per Week, or Booms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND CAFE
Business Announcements.
The Hotelkeepers’ Friend.
Soda Water, Id. per doz.
Lemonade and Ginger - Ale, 3d. per doz.
Hotelkeepers make their own supplies of
Aerated Waters.
No skilled labour required. Anyone can learn to operate
the Machine in ten minutes.
TESTIMONIALS.
“To the Daylesford Mineral Water Co.
“ Dear Sirs.—The Machine purchased from you is
perfect. The Stuff turned out is splendid. It is the
best speculation I have entered into since I joined the
Licensed Victuallers.—Geo. Nicholls, Royal Hotel, Swan
Hill.”
Mr. Klug, Hotelkeeper, Charlton, says : It is worth
its weight in gold.”
Mr. P. Kennedy, Hotelkeeper, Coolgardie, W.A., says:
“ Profits saved by making my own supplies of Aerated
Waters with the Machine purchased from you, pay the
Kent of my Hotel.”
Mr. Lewis, of Old England Hotel, Heidelberg, says
" I have now had one of your Aerated Water Machines in
use for three years, and have made thousands of dozens
of the best Aerated Waters with it, and it has not
required sixpence worth of repairs. No Hotelkeeper
should be without one of these Machines.”
Mr. W. Atkinson, Hotelkeeper, Wentworth, N.S.W.,
says :—“lt is the greatest money maker yet discovered
for hotelkeepers.”
Mr. Burk, Hotelkeeper, Yalgoo, W.A., says“ My
Aerated Water account was formerly - ±'3o per month.
Since getting one of your Machines, and making my own
soft stuff, I have saved the price of the Machine ten time*
A profitable business awaits pushing men in many
mall centres of population, where a deeply-felt want
ixists FOR A GOOD QUALITY OF AERATED WATERS. OBSERVE
TIE profits. Call and see these Machines, or write for
lircular describing them, also Price List.
Daylesford Hepburn Mineral Water 00.
407 COLLTNS-ST., MELBOURNE.
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are tlie Original and only Reliable.
They have been Awarded 85 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases —especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Co., Manchester.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
1
LA J
MEDICATOR.
("''ATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining: passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s MedicatOx
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non>e Catarrh CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE


EVIDENCE THAT CONVINCES.
Clements Tonic is a Scientific Specific.
-A. TETJTHrUL TsT A T?. T?. AT T T7~
Hope and Succour for the Afflicted.
The Case of
MRS. MARIA HAPGOOD.
Reported Jor the “ Marrickville Express”)
The reporter had no difficulty in finding
the residence of Mrs. Maria Hapgood at
I*o. 60 Shepherd-street, Marrickville, as it
is not far from the Emnore tram terminus.
This lady, a well-known resident, was
busily . attending her well-kept flower
garden, in which she takes a great pride,
in answer to an enquiry as to whether she
had not greatly benefited by the use of
Clemeiits Tonic, and would she object to
giving her experience, Mrs. Hapgood
replied :
“ Certainly not; I owe so much to that
remedy for all the good it has done to me
and mine that the least I can do is to give
my testimony, and I recommend it in every
case that I think suitable.”
“ How did your own sickness arise ?”
“ I do noc know the cause, but three
years ago I began to experience a number
of distressing symptoms. My digestion Was
seriousiy impaired, so that my food caused
me pain and distress At night I could not
rest, my sleep was broken and irregular.
Then X had a terrible pain in the back
across the shoulders, and I was nearly
crippled by neuralgic pains in my hands I
and wrists, so that it was with the greatest J
difficulty I could struggle through my
housework. But there was worse to come.
There was a painful enlargement in my
throat, and the back of my tongue became
so swollen as neatly to fill my mouth, and
joined to these troubles I had great depres-
sion of spirits. I did not seem to care how
things went. I went to a friend, a chemist,
and he recommended me a much puffed aud
advertised remedy, also a mixture of his
j own compounding ; but though I took them
l both as directed neither did me any good.
My husband insisted on my going to our
family doctor, of whom he had a very high
opinion.”
“ What did the doctor say ?”
“ He gave me no hope or encouragement,
and though I told him all my symptoms, he
did not tell me his opinion of my case or
what was the matter w r ith me. Of course
he gave me a prescription, which I had
made up and took without any benefit
whatever. Then it chanced that I came
across one of the pamphlets of Clements
Tonic, and although I could see no case
there just like my own, it appeared to me
Clements Tonic would be likely to do me
good. When I called on a ohemist to
purchase a bottle of Clements Tonic he
strongly advised me not to do so, and urged
me to take what he called ‘ my own tonic.’
I knew better, he only wanted the extra
profit; I had been had that way before, so
I waa resolute in my determination and
insisted on having tho genuine article—
Clements Tonic. ”
“ And what happened ?” J
“ To my great surprise, I derived great
benefit at once; and I may say that, practi-
cally, that one bottle cured me. All my
distressing symptoms disappeared as though
by magic, the pains in the back, across the
shoulders, the indigestion, the want of
appetite, the neuralgia in the hands and
wrists, even the painful swelling in the
throat and mouth were subdued, and I
knew at once I had found a master for my
trouble. I had been worn, weak, and
miserable ; but now. my good spirits and
energy returned; it was the most sudden
transformation 1 ever heard of. I said one
bottle cured me, but let me add I have
taken more than that. This sickness I tell
you of was three years ago, and I find by
keeping a bottle of Clements Tonic in the
house and taking a dose at the least sign of
my ailment returning it is effectually warded
ott and my naturally good health preserved
I noticed when I was sick that my distress-
ing symptoms were largely aggravated by
the hot weather, and it is now during hot
spells that I keep on my guard and protect
my health as I have told you, and you may
judge how my health is restored. You
have seen my brother and heard his case, so
you can understand the faith I have in
Clements Tonic, and why I have persistently
recommended it to my friends.”
** And you are willing that thiß testimony
should be made public ! ’ „ "
“ If it is of value do vvbat you think best,
you have my full permission ; I am only too
pleased to assist any sufferer on the road to
recovery and point out the genuine remedy
against the host of quack medicines now so
freely advertised.”
. STATUTORY DKCLARATION.
I, Maria H&pgood, of 60 Shepherd-street, Marrick.
rule, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, consisting- of three folks
and consecutively numbered from one to three and
that it contains and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also
contains iny full permission to publish the
same in any way.; and I make this solemn
declaration voluntarily, and without receiving
any payment, conscientiously believing .the tame
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an
Act made and parsed in the ninth year of the rei-n of
her present Majesty, mtjboled “ An Act. for the mor-
effectual abolition of Oafchf and Affirmations taken and
made in tl>? various Department* oi the Gov ernment
of New South Wales, to substitute Declarations
in lieu thereof, aae ier- the suppression of voluntary
and extra- judicial Oath* an* Affidavits.”
, ® ec ‘ ared at Marriokville this 15th day of Maj
MW. before me,
JOhHUA 3 FARR. J.R .
“ Oath ftiruu." Marrickvihe.
Bronchitis Core
the F-A.M;OXJj3 p=t->v for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OE ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA ’
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis Coimh Diffipnltv nf •
Soreness m the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable as it effects a Comnlete Pi,™ ar^ ness ’ am or
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally
“ DOWEJGDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
BY ROYAL WARRANT
OF APPOINTMENT TO
THE
QUEEN."
Ask for
WbiSky aod
‘Scbwcppc’
SCHWEPPES
SOPA WATER, &c.
,3dd3M<ps,
pOe ApCiejg
JOJ >|Stt
SUPPLIED TO ALL THE LEADING HOTELS, CLUBS, AND STEAMSHIP COMPANIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
I*o
(LI :M ITKD),
3DA.IPT O (T iHiKe Illa,wa,rra), 3iear KvnTCnny,
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OJf
FINE SILVER.
■
MAKERS 07
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AMD
s ILLAWARRA”
..buand of..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER,
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES.
LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, eto., apply to E. A. Weinbeku, Manager, The Smelti
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
»g Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record
FOOD for
Infants
9
\
Food is sold in various sized "
Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Wholesale of all Wholesale Mouses.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
THE AGED.


Arthur Russell, American dentist, 8 Bourke-
street E., Melb., makes beautiful teeth or teeth
beautiful, whichever is necessary. Also painless
operations.*
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the. real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
“APENTA,”
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For continuous use by the Constipated, the Gouty,
and the Obese. Apply to Chemists for “Regimen
for the Obese’’ Card, published by the Apollinaris
Company, Ltd., London.*
RELIABLE FURNITURE !
CARPETS, BEDSTEADS JND BEDDING
AND WHERE TO GET IT.
A. HALL and COMPANY,
CORNER GEORGE AND LIVERPOOL STREETS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE,
in Tapestry and Plush, Couch, Pair Easy
Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for .£3 10s.
50 others, 5, 10, to 20 guineas,
At HALL’S.
DINING-ROOM SUITE,
Very Strong, all Spring-seated and Padded-
Back Chairs, 6 guineas.
20 others, 7, 12, and 20 guineas,
at HALL’S.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Colour,
Wardrobe, Plate-glass Door and Drawers ;
Duchesse Chest Drawers, with glass at-
tached; Marble-top Washstand, Towel
Rail, and Cane Chair, 15s.
30 Bedroom Suites to select from.
Full Size HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Brass Rail, Double-wire Mattress, and
Set Best Bedding, .£3 15s.
50 LATEST DESIGN BEDSTEADS
to select from at HALL’S.
A. HALL AND COMPANY,
THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE FURNISHERS, 561, 563, 565 and 567 GEOROE S'l
Leave Tram or ’Bus at Liverpool-street for HALL’S.
Country Orders packed Iree. New Illustrated Furnishing Guide Post Free.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD and TRAVELLING TRUNK ought to contain A BOTTLE OF
ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’
A Simple Remedy for Preventing 1 & Curing 1 by Natural Means
v.-vV
$
All Functional Derangements of the Liver,
Temporary Congestion arising from
Alcoholic Beverages, Errors in Diet,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, Giddiness,
Vomiting, Heartburn, Sourness of the
Stomach, Constipation, Thirst,
Skin Eruptions, Boils, Feverish Cold
with High Temperature and Quick Pulse,
Influenza, Throat Aifeetions, and
Fevers of all kinds.
SMALL-POX. SCARLET FEYER, PYAEMIA, ERYSIPELAS, MEASLES,
GANGRENE, and almost eYery mentionable Disease. “ I have been a nurse
for ten years, and have nursed cases of scarlet fever, pyaemia, erysipelas, measles
gangrene, cancer, and almost every mentionable disease. During this time I
have not been ill for a single day, and this I attribute to the use ‘ Fruit
Salt,’ which has kept my blood in a pure state. I recommend it to all my
patients during convalescence. Its value as a means of health cannot be
over estimated.” —A Professional Nurse ( Qualified ).
THE EFFECT OF ENO S ‘ FRUIT SALT’ ON A DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS, and FEVERISH CONDITION
IS SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, IN FACT, NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION , —See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT ISALT.’ Without it vou harp a
WORTHLESS IMITATION. J
Prepared only by J. C.ENO, Ltd., at the'FRUIT SALT* WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
For fflore pan One Hundred Sears
has maintained its supremacy in the face of the whole
world’s competition. Such a record could not be
achieved without cause. Temporary successes are com-
paratively easy, but for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man who has once tried Pears’ Soap in the form of a
Shaving Stick wants no other, he takes it with him on all
his journeys. The woman who travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
“ matchless for the complexion.”
The Stranding' of the “ Cheerful
Mary.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
God dug the sea, and man made it a slavery,
And set himself to walk it—’stead of staying in
his cave ;
And the best of all the landsmen leave the land
and all the knavery
Of the man who lives in offices—to plough the
briny wave.
Man thought the ship, and his thought ’came
fact upon the ways—
Upon the skids that sicken with the launch-
grease fed too free—
And the Marine Surveyor when her stiffening’s in
a dozen ways
Makes an overdeck inspection and bequeaths her
to the sea.
God made the “ old man,” the compass, and the
telegraph
That rings its terror from the bridge, “ Stand by!
Astern ! Ahead ! ”
But Nicky made the envious mates who criticise
from keel to gaff,
And who think a skipper’s useful —if he happens
to be dead.
And Envy is a fearful thing—it gets you down
and worries you,
And it makes your eye-white spleen-flecked, and
you don’t enjoy your drink,
And it slacks your nervous system—and a bit of
danger flurries you ;
As see the fate of Shoreland of the steamship
“Cheerful Stink.”
She was launched, the “Cheerful Mary”; but
through carrying guanner
Through cross and funnel currents round the
Leeuwin’s gusty blink ;
Through odoring the salt seas from Beagle Bank
to Banner,
And from Pelsart Group to Nobby’s, she was
called the “ Cheerful Stink.”
At Wreck Point, Pelsart Island, where the Dutch-
men’s ships were wrecked,
The Zeewyck and Batavia—and their crews made
death’s elect—
Where Mr. Billy Broadbent owns the phosphates
of the past,
And the guano of the future (if the dear, kind
birds can last).
The square-tailed petrel comes ashore to make
more trade for Bill,
And noddy-terns and wide-awakes—they help the
deep ships fill;
To conserve that farm of phosphates they land —
they breed—they nest,
And Billy prays for strength for them to do their
very best.
The green-turtle and the beche-de-mcr, the quail
and parrot-fish.
Bill approves of —but the petrels have his heart’s
desire and wish ;
And in South Latitude ’tween twenty-eight and
twenty-nine,
Where the sea-breeze dripping fruit-scents comes
singing from the Line,
’Tween 28° and 29°—supposing you are there —
You’ll hear the noddy noise a-land, and Broad-
bent’s phosphate prayer.
For years the “ Cheerful Mary ” leached the salt
from out the wind,
And her awful smell was visible, and streamed
like smoke behind,
When the Orient and P. & O. ran down the
Leeuwin light,
And suddenly upon the sea an odour black as
night
Broke up the deck flirtation of the awful British
swell,
And a sickening fog crept o’er them like the stolid
smoke of Hell—
And some men quickly lit their pipes, and some
men took to drink—
They knew that in the darkness near there
steamed the “ Cheerful Stink.’’
But she left the trade in phosphates, and they
tried her in the North,
Though her cabin was thesteerage and her second-
class was fourth—
As “a fast and favorite passenger ’’ they tried her
in the Noith,
And the gales retired from business when the
“ Cheerful Stink ” put forth.
She would never lose on land or sea, or in the
docks of Hell,
By painting or by burning her, her own distinc-
tive smell;
And they made her carry bone-dust for every
other week
To Lytton Wharf, at Brisbane, from the meat-
works at Lake’s Creek.
Now Shoreland was the mate of her —a man with
envy green—
And he sneered at all the skipper did to work the
old machine.
The old man drank much squarefaoe—it was his
only fault—
(And it’s vice that’s mostly virtue—is that lime-
kiln thirst for malt.
Shakespeare—Raleigh Danton Herrick—Billy
Kidd and Mirabeau,
They washed in water, and they sent the wine
where it should go ;
And the big man, right through history—he who
does, or plans, or thinks,
Is a term for contradictions if he fails to love
strong drinks—
As witness yours sincerely—the author of this
strain
Who ha 3 been drunk a hundred times, and hopes
to be again.)
And Shoreland was teetotal—in everything but
sneers,
But at that as great a drunkard as ever schemed
for beers.
And when Shoreland’s chance had come for him
to take the smells one trip,
He found that being teetotal won’t suffice to work
a ship.
By the Meat Works Wharf the loading came
down to Shoreland’s craft—
For the old man was offended, and he cursed her
fore and aft—
The owners wrote that boozing wasn’t the work
for which he signed,
And the old inan drank more squareface and in
squareface he resigned.
So Shoreland took her South, and he’d a most
turgeseent head,
Though he saw the river narrower than from the
fok’sle head ;
He had seen the old man swing her round Egg
Island and the Ridge,
And the river then looked wider than it seemed
to from the bridge ;
But he took her out all safely, and passed
Timandra Bank,
And her breath lay over Keppel Rocks in fog and
vapour rank.
He brought her south by almanac, by chart, by
sun, by Pugh,
But he hadn’t more than a few brains—and didn’t
use his few.
And when he reached Cape Moreton he knew how
thin his blood,
For he’d struck The Wide Contingency—a first-
class, old-man flood 1
“ At minute intervals revolves a first catoptric
light ”
This was his only certainty of Pugh that raging
night—
The old man (had he been there) had put her out
to sea ;
But Shoreland’s devil hustled him, and Shoreland
wasn’t free ;
And_ the buoys had changed, and Shoreland aohed
in his turgeseent head —
On the starboard hand the buoys were black—on
the port hand they were red
The beacons not triangular and blaok, but black
and square,
And he saw the shining emerald of wreck-buoys
everywhere.
But he kept along as best he might, in soorn of
luck or lead,
And read his Pugh until it seemed all nonsense in
his head ;
And so read on as priests may read, tolling eternal
beads,
And the mind within, as the world without,
hearkens never nor heeds.
And Shoreland read—“AroundSmith Rock there
shall I find foul ground,
—Smith’s Rock is safe when Tempest bears Sou’
Sou’ West of the Sound.
Hug the Cape foot on Flinders Rocks, borrow on
the North hand
(When strangers try the Middle Run they’ll likely
meet the sand),
Keep the South Glass-House North by East of
Hutchins and the Shoal—
(Mt. Tempest over Yellow Patoh locates a
Sohnapper hole) —
For Raper Shoal bring Cartwright Point in line
with Coolmn Hill ”
At this poor Shoreland’s tottering brain refused
itself to fill
With pointers—good for any sort of weather
made for use.
But not for brawls of floods, and gales, and Hell,
and damp abuse.
He read of Tungaluma and of triune holophotes,
Of North Point and Comboyuro, and the Channel
of the Boats ;
And he seemed to get much further from the
longed-for Lytton shore,
And he swore he’d take a billet with Contingencies
no more,
And in his dire extremity the habits of the years
Slipped from him like pyjamas, and he saw the
use of beers.
The ship was steaming half a-head—which kept
her on —no more,
For the muddy river sped to sea like martens on
the shore.
So Shoreland drew the squarefaoe, and he poured
a second mate’s tot
(An inch above the “pretty,”) n he drank the
blessed lot—
Then in a flash he saw the way in scorn of light or
lead,
He took the wheel and telegraphed the engines
“ Full Ahead ! ”
And drove so through the blinding night across
the liquid plain
Through half a fog and half a drift emulsion of
the rain.
Making half-speed with “ full-ahead ” he breasted
bight and point,
Made Double Isle and nearly gave Wolf Rock his
bone and joint;
He scraped in Pumice Channel and he tore the
mangrove slime,
And finally 1 she settled in the dead backwater
rime.
I he flood ran off the longlands as th e Barron Falls
go down
To Trinity and Redlynch and the steaming tropic
town ;
And the stranded ship’s loud odour it ascended
Breakfast Creek,
And it killed some sick in Brisbane, and the
strong were water-weak.
In power each hour as the sun waxed full the
well-known smell arose,
And the “Cheerful Mary’s” agent traced the cast-
away by nose;
And they left her where she took the mud to warn
ships off her deck—
And that smell’s the finest coastguard that ever
stopped a wreck.
So Shoreland lost his ticket for many a hard-up
day.
And he’s captain of a ferry from the Quay to
Neutral Bay—
He runs ten-minute voyages, and his faith in
Pugh has fled,
And if his mate has notions that mate had best be
dead—
For Shoreland’s down on Envy since he rounded
last the Ridge,
And he knows that every channel’s but a foot
wide—from the bridge !
Cairns (N.Q.).
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


ITCHING PILES.
DOAN’S OINTMENT CURES PILES PER-
MANENTLY BY CURING THE CAUSE.
A REMARKABLE REMEDY, WHICH IS
BRINGING COMFORT TO THOUSANDS
OF SUFFERERS.
Probably half the people who see this article
suffer from piles. It is one of the commonest
diseases, and one of the most obstinate. People
have it for years, and just because it is not imme-
diately fatal they neglect it. Carelessness causes
no end of suffering. Carelessness about so simple
a thing as piles has often caused death. Hemor-
rhages occur from no apparent cause, and loss of
blood causes death. Hemorrhages occur under
surgical treatment, often causing death.
Piles are simple in the beginning, and easily
cured. They can be cured even in the worst
stages, without pain or loss of blood, quickly,
surely, and completely. There is only one remedy
that will do it—DOAN’S OINTMENT.
It allays the inflammation immediately, heals
the irritated surface, and with continued treat-
ment reduces the swelling and puts the mem-
brane into good, sound, healthy condition. The
cure is thorough and permanent. Here is a case :
T. W. Hickson, of No. 170 Cumberland-street,
this city, says: “For a few weeks I was very
much inconvenienced by an attack of itching piles
from which I could get no relief. Doan's Oint-
ment was first advertised at that time, and I
obtained a pot from Newman’s Pharmacy, in
King-street. I am glad to say that the piles
completely disappeared after a short treatment
with the ointment, and I’ve not had occasion to
use it since. I will not forget to recommend
Doan’s Ointment.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Chilblains, Sores,
Insect Bites, &c. It is perfectly safe, and very
effective.
Very frequently two or three boxes have made
a complete cure of chronio cases that have not
yielded to other remedies for years.
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot free by mail who will send us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from 'Piles
or Eczema for one single moment. Doan’s Oint-
ment will cure them absolutely, but do not take
our word for it, send a penny stamp for a sample
The large size box is sold at 2s. Od. per box (six
boxes, 15s. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally
from your chemist or storekeeper, same will be
posted” on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 7G Pitt-st., Sydney.
p
Why shouldn’t a man be hale and healthy at
seventy ? In the evening of life, after the battle
has been fought, why shouldn’t he enjoy the resb
he has earned ?
Ask the man of seventy why he stoops, and what
is the weak spot in his constitution. Nine times out
of ten he will reply, “ Oh, it’s my back. It isn’t
strong, and it pains me to move or stoop, or
straighten up.”
Ah, but is it really the back ? The back does
ache, but the real ache is deeper than that. It’*
the kidneys, for they lie just under the small of
the back, and the hurry and bustle and worry of
a long life in the fight for wealth and position
have finally told on the kidneys, and they hav#
become weakened.
Disturbances of the water have have appeared—
there is a sediment in the kidney secretions.
Disease has attacked him in the weakest part, and
will never stop of its own accord. Yet it can be
checked and cured even at seventy by Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, for they heal the kidneys, they act
on the kidneys only, and will clear the secretions,
strengthen the back, and check the most danger*
ous of all diseases, kidney disease, even in a man
of seventy.
W. D. Harvey, of Stawell, whose picture is given
above, is seventy years old. He has lived in Stawell
for forty-eight years. He says“ My back gave
out and I had plenty of proof that my kidneys had
become diseased. In the first place, the pain in
my back was confined to the small of the back,
just over the kidneys. I could stoop over only
with difficulty, and any exertion brought an
increase of pain. Of course lam an old man, and
this pain was hard to bear. At length the kidneys
began to act wrong. I was restless at night, and
I noticed that the secretions from the kidneys
left a sediment, and were of a high color. There
could be no mistaking these symptoms, and I got
some of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills at once. I
took them with splendid results. I derived great
benefit from them, and, at my age, this is gratify-
ing. My back is better, and the kidney secretions
again natural, and I can highly recommend them
to anyone suffering from backache or any otln r
signs of kidney disease. The above is true, and
you may publish the facts.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS may
1
Ilv
J 5
i m
m
S
1
«<•
Sv
WM
:
i'.IW
'V
i ;tw«
x*-
flflH
Km
%
Ea
k/
Mb. W. D. HARVEY,
in’ had of all chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per
box, or six boxes for 15/3, or will be posted on
receipt of price by the proprietors, Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney (Main
office), or from any of our branches as follows :
292 Flinders-street, Melbourne; 54 King William-
street, Adelaide; 341 Murray-street, Perth, W. A.;
Eagle-street, Brisbane, care Elliott Bros. ; St.
John-street, Launceston, care Fairthorne and Son-
Don’t forget the name “ D-O-A-N-S.”
A Rouseabout of Rouseabouts.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A HOT, breathless, blinding sunrise—the sun hav-
ing appeared suddenly above the ragged edge of
the barren scrub like a great disc of molten steel.
No hint of a morning breeze before it, no sign on
sky or earth to show that it is morning—save the
position of the sun.
A clearing in the scrub—bare as though the
surface of the earth were ploughed and harrowed,
and dusty as the road. Two oblong huts—one for
the shearers and one for the rouseabouts m
about the centre of the clearing (as if even the
mongrel scrub had shrunk away from them) built,
end-to-end, of weatherboards, and roofed with
galvanised iron. Little ventilation; no verandah ;
no attempt to create, artificially, a breath of air
through the buildings. Unpainted, sordid-
hideous. Outside, heaps of ashes still hot and
smoking. Close at hand, “butcher’s shop —a
bush and bag break wind in the dust, under a couple
of sheets of iron, with offal, grease and clotted
blood blackening the surface of the ground about
it Greasy, stinking sheepskins hanging every-
where with blood-blotched sides out. Crease
inches deep in great black patches about the fire-
place ends of the huts, where wash-up and ‘ boil-
ing ’’ water is thrown.
Inside, a rough table on supports driven into
the black, greasy ground floor, and formed ot
flooring boards, running on uneven lines the
length of the hut from within about Oft. ot the
fire-place. Lengths of single six-inch boards or
slabs on each side, supported by the projecting
ends of short pieces of timber nailed aoross the
legs of the table to serve as seats.
On each side the hut runs a rough framework,
like the partitions in a stable ; each compartment
battened off to about the size of a manger, and
containing four bunks, one above the other, on
each side—their ends, of course, to the table.
Scarcely breathing space anywhere between.
Fireplace, the full width of the hut in one
end, where all the cooking and baking for 40
or 50 men is done, and where flour, sugar, &c., are
kept in open bags. Fire, like a very furnace.
Buckets of tea and coffee on roasting beds of coals
and ashes on the hearth. Pile of “ brownie ”on
the bare black boards at the end of the table.
Unspeakable aroma of 40 or 50 men who have
little inclination and less opportunity to wash
their skins, and have to soak some of the grease out
of their clothes on Saturday afternoons or Sundays.
And clinging to all, and over all, the smell
of the dried, stale yolk of wool—the stink of rams!
• • * *
“I am a rouseabout of the rouseabouts. I
have fallen so far that it is beneath me to try to
climb to the proud position of “ringer” of the
shed. I had that ambition once, when I was the
softest of green hands ; but then I thought I
could work out my salvation and go home. I’ve
got used to hell since then. I only get twenty-five
shillings a week (less station store charges) and
tuckerthere. I have been seven years west of the
Darling and never shore a sheep. Why don’t I
learn to shear, and so make money ? What should
I do with more money ? Get out of this and go
home? I would never go home unless I had
enough money to keep me for the rest of my life,
and I’ll never make that Out Back. Otherwise
what should I do at home ? And how should I
account for the seven years, if I were to go home .
Could I describe shed life to them and explain
how I lived. They think shearing only takes a
few days of the year—at the beginning of summer.
They’d want to know how I lived the rest of the
year. Could I explain that I “ jabbed trotters ’
and was a “tea-and-sugar burglar" between
sheds. They’d think I’d been a tramp and a
beggar all the time. Could I explain anything so
that they’d understand ? I’d have to be lying
the time and would soon be tripped up and found
out. For, whatever else I have been I was never
much of a liar. No, I’ll never go home.
“ I become momentarily conscious about day-
light. The flies on the track got me into that
habit, I think—they start at day-break—when the
mosquitoes give over.
“ The cook rings a bullock bell.
“The cook is fire-proof. The cook is as a fiend
from the nethermost sheol and needs to be. No
man sees him sleep, for he makes bread, or, worse,
brownie at night, and he rings a bullock bell
loudly at half-past five in the morning to rouse us
from our animal torpors. Others, the sheep-ho s,
the engine-drivers at the shed or wool-wash, call
him, if he does sleep. They manage it in shifts,
somehow, and sleep somewhere, sometime. We
haven’t time to know. The cook rings the
bullock bell and yells the time. It was the same
time five minutes ago—or a year ago. No time to
decide which. I dash water over my head and
face and slap handfuls on my eyelids—gummed
over aching eyes —still blighted by the yoke o
woo l —grey, greasy-feeling water from a cut-down
kerosene tin which I sneaked from the cook and
hid under my bunk and had the foresight to refill
from the cask last night, under cover of warm,
still, suffocating darkness. Or was it the night
before last ? Anyhow, it will be sneaked from me
to-day, and from the crawler who will collar it to-
morrow, and * touched ’ and 4 lifted ’ and collared
and recovered by the cook, and sneaked back
again, and cause foul language, and fights, may-
be, till we ‘ cut-out.’
“No; we didn’t have sweet dreams of home
and mother, gentle poet —nor yet of babbling
brooks and sweethearts, and love’s young dream.
We are too dirty and dog-tired when we tumble
down, and have too little time to sleep it off. We
don’t want to dream those dreams out here—they’d
only be nightmares for us, and we’d wake to re-
member. We mustn't remember here.
“ At the edge of the timber a great galvanised-
iron shed, nearly all roof, coming down to within
6ft. 6in. of the “board” over the “shoots.”
Cloud of red dust in the dead timber behind,
going up —noon-day dust. Fence covered with
skins ; carcases being burned ; blue smoke going
straight up as in noonday. Great glossy (greasy-
glossy) black crows “ flopping ” around.
“ The first syren has gone. We hurry in single
files from opposite ends of rouseabouts’ and
shearers’ huts (as the paths happen to run to the
shed) gulping hot tea or coffee from a pint-pot in
one hand and biting at a junk of brownie in the
other.
“ Shed of forty hands. Shearers rush the pens
and yank out sheep and throw them like demons ;
grip them with their knees, take tip machines,
jerk the strings ; and with a rattling whirring
roar the great machine-shed starts for the day.
“ ‘Go it, you tigers ! ” yells a tar-boy.
‘ Wool away i ’ ‘ Tar ! ’ ‘ Sheep Ho ! ’ We rush
through with a whirring roar till breakfast-time.
“We seize our tin plate from the pile, knife
and fork from the candle-box, and crowd round
the camp-oven to jab out lean chops, dry as chips,
boiled in fat. Chops or curry-and-rice. There
is some growling and cursing. We slip into our
places without removing our hats. There’s no
time to hunt for mislaid hats when the whistle
noes Row of hat brims, level, drawn over eyes,
or thrust black-according to characters or
temperaments. Thrust back denotes a lucky
absence of brains, I fancy. Row of folks g° h
up, or jabbing, or poised, loaded, waiting for last
mouthful to be bolted.
“ We nick up, sweep, tar, sew wounds, catch
sheep that break from the pensjump down and
pick up those that can’t rise at the bottom of the
shoots, ‘ bring- my-combs - from - the -
yer,’ laugh at dirty jokes and sweat an ,
in short, are the ‘ will-yer slaves, body and sou ,
of seven, six, five or four shearers, according to
the distance from the rolling tables.
“The shearer on the board at the shed is a
demon. He gets so much a , hl ‘" dre^ J Jjes
255. a week. He is not supposed, by the' rules
of the shed, the Union, and humanity to take a
sheen out of the pen after the bell goes (smoke-ho,
meals, or knock-off), but his watch is hanging on
the post, and he times himself to get so many
sheep out of the pen before the bell S oes > 3 d ,
more —the ‘ bell-sheep ’-as it is ringing. We have
to take the last fleece to the table and leave our
board clean. We go through the day of eight
hours in runs of about an hour and 20 minutes
between smoke-ho’s—from 6to 6. If th ®
shore 200 instead of 100, they d get £2 a day
instead of £l, and we’d have twice as muoh work
to do for our 255. per week. But the shearers are
racing each other for tallies. And it s no use
kicking. There is no God here and no Unionism
(though we all have tickets). Bub what am I
growling about ? I’ve worked from 6to 6 with no
smoke-ho’s for half the wages, and food we
wouldn’t give the sheep-ho dog. It s the bush
growl, born of heat, flies, and dust. I d gro
now if I had a thousand a year. We must growl,
swear, and some of us drink to d.t. s, or go mad
sober.
“Pants and shirts stiff with grease aa though a
couple of pounds of soft black putty were spread
on with a painter’s knife. ... ,
“ No, gentle bard !—we don’t sing at our work.
Over the whirr and roar and hum all day long,
and with iteration that is childish and irritating
to the intelligent greenhand, float unthinkable
adjectives and adverbs, addressed to jumbucks,
jackaroos, and mates indiscriminately. And
worse words for the boss over board—behind his
back !
“ I came of a Good Christian Family perhaps
that’s why I went to the Devil. When I came
out here I’d shrink from the man who used foul
language. In a short time I used it with the
worst. I couldn’t help it.
“That’s the way of it. If I went baok to a
woman’s country again I wouldn’t swear. Id
forget this as I would a nightmare. That s the
way of it. There’s something of the larrikin
about us. We don’t exist individually. Off the
board, away from the shed (and eaoh other) we
are quiet—even gentle.
“ A great-horned ram, in poor condition, but
shorn of a heavy fleece, picks himself up at the
foot of the “ shoot,” and hesitates, as if ashamed
to go down to the other end where the ewes are.
The most ridiculous object under Heaven.
“A tar-boy of fifteen, of the bush, with a
mouth so vile that a street-boy, same age, (up
with a shearing uncle) kioks him behind —having
proved his superiority with his fists before the
shed started. Of which unspeakable little fiend
the roughest shearer of a rough shed was heard to
say, in effect, that if he thought there was the
slightest possibility of his becoming the father of
such a boy he’d take drastic measures to pre-
vent the possibility of his becoming a proud
parent at all. .
“ Twioe a day the cooks and their familiars
carry buckets of oatmeal-water and tea to the
shed, two each on a yoke. We cry, ‘ Where are
you coining to, my pretty maids’’
“ In ten minutes the surfaces of the buckets are
black with flies. We have given over trying to
keep them clear, We stir the living cream aside
with the bottoms of the pints, and guzzle gallons,
and sweat it out again. Occasionally a shearer
pauses and throws the perspiration from his fore-
head in a rain.
“Shearers live in such a greedy rush of excite-
ment that often a strong man will, at a prick of
the shears, fall in a death-like faint on the board.
“ We hate the Boss-of-the-Board as the shearers’
* slushy ’ hates the shearers’ cook. I don’t know
why. He’s a very fair boss.
“ He refused to put on a traveller yesterday and
the traveller knocked him down. He walked
into the shed this morning with his hat back and
thumbs in waistcoat—a tribute toman’s weakness.
He threatened to dismiss the traveller’s mate, a
bigger man, for rough shearing—a tribute to
man’s strength. The shearer said nothing. We
hate the boss because he is boss, but we respect
him because he is a strong man. He is as hard
up as any of us, I hear, and has a sick wife and a
large, small family in Melbourne. God judge us
all!
“ There is a gambling-school here, headed by
the shearers’ cook. After tea they head-’em, and
advance checks are passed from hand to hand,
and thrown in the dust until they are black.
When it’s too dark to see with nose to the ground
they go inside and gamble with cards. Sometimes
they start Saturday afternoon, heading ’em till
dark, play cards all night, start again heading ’em
Sunday afternoon, play cards all Sunday night,
and sleep themselves sane on Monday, or go to
work ghastly—like dead men.
“ Cry of ‘ Fight!’we all rush out. But there
isn’t much fighting. Afraid of murdering each
other. I’m beginning to think that most bush
crime is due to irritation born of dust, heat, and
flies.
“ The smothering atmosphere shudders when the
sun goes down. We call it the sunset breeze.
“ Saturday night or Sunday we’re invited into
the shearers’ hut. There are songs that are not
hymns and reoitations and speeches that are not
prayers.
“ Last Sunday night: Slush lamps at long
intervals on table. Men playing cards, sewing on
patches—(nearly all smoking)—some writing and
the rest reading Deadwood Dick. At one end of
the table a Christian Endeavourer endeavouring ;
at the other a cockney Jew, from the hawker’s
boat, trying to sell rotten clothes. In response to
oomplaints, direot and not chosen generally for
Sunday, the shearers’ rep. requests both apostles to
shut up or leave.
“He couldn’t be expected to take the Christian
and leave the Jew, any more than he could take
the Jew and leave the Christian. We are just
amongst ourselves in our hell.
• • • •
“ Fiddle at the end of Rouseabouts’ hut. Voice
of Jackaroo, from upper bunk with apologetic
oaths: ‘For God’s sake chuck that up ; it makes
a man think of blanky old things ! ’
“ A lost soul laughs (mine) and dreadful night
smothers us.”
HENBY LAWSON.


In Bed for Months j Terrible Suffering $
Rheumatism Cured j A Limb Saved j Now Works Hard at 72*
13
\
4?
%
SN.
jv
if
‘Vs.Y
&
"il
While living at Broken Hill I was subject to lumbago and rheumatism,
having swollen joints which prevented me from working or going about any.
I tried a great many remedies and put out a great many pounds trying to get
nd of my complaints, but to no good.
soon as I put my foot on the ground I suffered terrible pain, so I was
obliged to stay in bed for many months.
“ o° e doctor told me I had the dropsy, and another told me I would have to
lose my leg.
“ But, having heard of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, I decided to try it, and now I am
thankful to say it has completely restored me to health.
3 I! * am now years old, have a splendid appetite, and work hard every
Mr. John F. Jones, of Cobar, New South Walfes, sends us this testimonial
with the above portrait of himself. It is the experience of thousands of others
who have had impurities removed from their system by Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Such testimonies have given to this remedy the name of
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Sick people may be cured if they will only take the right medicine. The
blood must first be made pure, no matter what the disease. With pure blood
nature can go ahead and complete the cure.
AYERS
It Acts on the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar Goated, Easy to Take.
ds
PLAIN HOMC TALK.
EMBRACING
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young:and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting: their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting: subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great Work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and .Toasts ready-made for all’occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy. Is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Bkavtv’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist; post free Is. Tiie
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette—Parties, Love, Dress, etc. Is6d post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or liow to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
A'jist. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Js, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art ok Boxing, by Ned Donnelly,,4o illus. Is fid posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is fid.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted^
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is fid post.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter (newest), lsfid post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s fid posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR. ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him —are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION - .
WINES SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
“Worth a Guinea a Box,”
-FQR ALL-
Bilious & ~N ervous Disorder^
Sick Ueatlaclie, Constipation,
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion,
Disordered Liver, and Female Ailments.
OVER 6,000.000 BOXES SOLD YEARLY.
Beeeham’s Cough Pills
STAND UNRIVALLED FOR
Coughs, Asthma, Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, &c., &c.
In Boxes, 9|d., Is. l|d. and 2s. 9d. each, with full directions.
The Is. lid. box contains 56 pills.
Beecham’s Tooth Paste
RECOMMENDS ITSELF
It is Efficacious, Economical, Cleanses the Teeth, Perfumes the Breath, and
is a Reliable and Pleasant Dentrifice.
In Collapsible Tubes; of all Druggists , for ONE SHILLING.
Prepared Only bt the Proprietor —
Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, England.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
R'SEN
m
s.
fenr
| Sen-Sen(*
IFARRINGDON AME
f LONDON.
INVALUABLE TO
i SINGERS X SPEAKERS
when
cK
nr
.
V-
Piano.
Nanon Piano.
Ronisch Piano.
THERE
THERE
IS ONLY ONE
IS ONLY ONE
IS ONLY ONE
Beclistein Piano
We are the Sole Agents
Time Payments to Suit Evervboctr
Liberal Discount for Cash. 7 J *
1
BRISBANE.
SYDNEY
& c 0.,
Influenza ! Colds !
TAKE
Bennington’s
—lrish Moss
Instant Relief - - - Speedy Cure.


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber, Rubber Rings,
Washers, Rollers,
Valves, Buffers,
Gras Tubing, &c.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Offick :
PERDRIAU & CO.
270 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
An ..
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS!
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL-COMFORTING.
COCO A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
St®
1
Used extensively in all parts of Europe, and tn
Australia, Africa, South America, IndiMf
China, and Japan.
SPECIAL features:
Great Durability.
Enormous Driving Strength.
Perfect Steadiness and
Smoothness in Working-
Entire Absence of
Stretching or Slipping.
Price Lists, Samples and Testimonials may
be obtained from the Local Agents, or
from the Patentees and Makers—
R. & J. DICK,
Greenhead Works,
<i^GLASGOW.
Wholesale Depots:
LONDON Queen Victoria St.
MANCHESTER 10 Corporation St.
BIRMINGHAM 33 Albert St.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE 8 Neville St.
ś
NO BETTER PROOF of the STRIKING
SUPERIORITY of
wcrs poteßT SECTS
ean be offered than the remarkable increase
in the sales during the past three years in
every part of the World where Driving
Belts are used, notably in such important
fields as the chief countries of Europe, the
South African Goldfields, and India.
Every Belt Guaranteed .
BEWARE OF INFERIOR
IMITATIONS.
Agents i i—nTfc
Wm. Adams & Co., Sydney;
Bennie, Teare & Co, and
James Hardie, Melbourne;
John Reid & Sons, Adelaide;
Robertson, Tait & Co., Brisbane
PUMPS „ TANGYES
A For Irrigating, Sinking, Boiler-Feeding, Cyanide.
Be,*.*..** by BENNIE, TEARE & CO. “
Mining and Engineering Furnisher*.
carried 8 in SYDNEY, v MELBOURNE, PERTH, COOLGARDIE. ‘
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & IGE GO. LTD.
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less dailv. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully ""flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Grood butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or foi ordinary use
at any price. The famous “ Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
BTJTTEB
• •
bad butter is dear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
*
&
&
V
the very fact that
23,500 R OCK Drills
& Have been made and sold by this Company carries
with it the assurance of long and successful experience.
800 at the Anaconda Mines, Butte, Mont. 80 at the Homestake Bead, South Dakota.
14 by Thomas A. Edison, Edison, N.J.
The New Ingcrsoll
is the embodiment of all that there is good in
Rock Drills. Its popularity increases each day.
DRILLS
Mines, Quarries, Tunnels,
Contract Work, Good Roads.
AIR COMPRESSORS
12 Standard Types and
many Special Patterns.
ada
PARKE & LACY CO. LIMITED
Manufacturers and Importers of Mining Machinery, Engines and Boilers.
'"Cv-
'
, N.S.W.
v •
BARNES’ A
Foot and Steam Power
Machine Tools
of Every Description.
Drilling Machines
Turning Lathes
Shaping Machines
Screwing Machines
Anvils Vices
Micrometer Callipers
Twist Drills and Sockets
Twist Drill Grinders
H. P. GREGORY & CO
geSral E merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
SIMPSOKT BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
j SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Worthington Pumps
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL.
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends
. . Send for Catalogues . ,
VVu'i
TRADE
BOILER FEED PUMP.
