

MeEWAN'S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. LAMB’S RUM,
IFTXJFt-E OQOOA A.3XTI3 KXTK.A.CT OF nVOC^X^T
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Minina 1 Jteciuisites
- Exi>l OSIVES . GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. *
IMMS
Over Star tiro-ilia, tract, rs Sold, and at worn
JJJOTICBS TO MIELSOURNE VISITORS.
WtMl'or.l'VS GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trains. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TAKIEE tor
Boarders, ‘Js. per Hay, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C°-85 pm street, SYDNEY.
ARB
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBEIMT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
J!rvr adm, r IT* i e °A R , nccessf r ul fc int ™ d «ced tliroughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods Suoar,
Testinuinuiiriod full Extlact ’ «tc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
Established 1831.
That’s All!
AN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
ñ
mn
ton
m
uoßArrr.
—Jwfci,
Hadley s Orient Hotel.
D . S .MAI R
Gp
WATCH REPaIKI..G SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Gleaned, 2 6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
■DEST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 654 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. fW Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 Ceorge Street, Sydney.
a/l
CO
860,112 Bottles Sold in One Month-THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST
m
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTIMC
The jueaumg - lieu oi ii.ucsiActiia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and- Cheapness.
Used exclusively by tIieN.S.YV. Government.
Piices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUDOWiOi~& SON, LTD.,
11Y York Street, .
SYDNEY.
BR ANCHES: Brisbane,_ "Queensland ; Perth, W_- Aus-
, tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“Tales of the System.”
FRICK Is. ... per Post Is. 3d.
“Wealth of Pattons "Tobacco
A GIFT FROM THE UNITED STATES TO AUSTRALIA.
* /
The T. C. WILLIAMS COMPANY, of RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, U.S.A., state that
No letter Tobacco can be Produced
Than that Manufactured under the “ Wealth of Nations ” Brand.
WORTHY OF A TRIAL BY „
ALL SMOKERS OF DARK TOBACCO.
WINE!
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST
AUSTRALIA.
£2F Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
2G3 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
Vol 22.—N0, 1057. J
fSaturday, May 19, 11)00.
Ppn- S ff r at tbs Ostiera! Post Offica, for Transmission by Post as a JTsws’Kom'.


Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
(REGISTERED).
GOUGHS, GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
i
IN TINS, IS. Sd.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OR POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
G. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
They ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE .
Symbolist Poetry.
THERE are three foreign critics of the
French symbolist poets at whose feet
it is a pleasure and a profit to sit
—in Australia, Chris. Brennan ; in
America, Vance Thompson ; and in Eng-
land, Arthur Symons. In the matter of
textual knowledge our own critic is the most
learned of them all. Vance Thompson is
rather interviewer than critic, but his fine
journalist’s style is helped by sympathy,
and his recently-published “French Por-
traits ” tells you a thousand little intimate
things about the men which illuminate their
work and the motive of their work. Arthur
Symons is one of the most lyrically-intense
of current English poets—he was the friend
of Verlaine And the visitor of Mallarmd—and
though occasionally his criticism seems care-
less, occasionally inadequate, his work con-
tains the stimulus of his brilliant capacity,
and is always worth attention.
In his'new book, called “The Symbolist
Movement in Literature,” Arthur Symons
collects and expands various articles which
he has printed in English reviews during the
past three or four years ; and adds sufficient
new matter to justify warm protest, from
people at another pole of view. He is a
professed mystic now, with a debt to Ploti-
nus ; and, if he has not already forgotten his
doubts on the bosom of Holy Mother Church,
he seems far on the path to that Lethe of
jangled modern wits. Yet “it never can be
necessary to throw away your reason to save
your soul ” unless your body is so sick that
reason is reason no longer.
What is Symbolism in Literature ? Liter-
ally, it is a method of statement by allu-
sions, of description by images. In order to
display an idea, you do not consider it ana-
tomically or as a criminal is registered for
identification—for so, as a Symbolist holds,
you would lose the idea completely. You
are dealing with abstract things, not with
concrete, and you cannot apply the methods
of weighing aud measuring which you would
apply to the concrete. Thus, instead of
nakedly stating the idea, you suggest the
impression which the idea makes upon you,,
in the belief aud the hope that such
a suggestion of an impression will bring
the reader closer to the idea than any exact
statement. You endeavour to portray the
thing, the fact, the thought, not as it is, but
as it affects yourself—that is, you do not
stand aloof from it, and describe it literally
as an object outside yourself, but you bring
it within yourself, fuse it with your con-
sciousness, and hint in words the reaction
of its action upon your consciousness. More
than hint, suggest, you cannot do—since
it is impossible to state an emotion by means
of mere words. So you work roundabout,
by metaphors, images, symbols.
Poe’s poem of the Conqueror Worm
is a good example of the use of symbolism
as a literary device ; but a modern symbolist
would not explain the symbol. He would
leave “the Tragedy Man” and “the-Con-
queror Worm ” to be inferred.
Arthur Symons begins his book by affirm-
ing that “ without symbolism there can be
no literature ; indeed, not even language ”
—since words themselves are arbitrary sym-
bols. And in a sense that is true, though by
dint of familiar usage many words give such
a direct impression of things that their sym-
bolic value is lost altogether. And he quotes
Carlyle’s eulogium of the symbol—declaring
that “in the symbol proper there is ever,
more or less distinctly and directly, some
embodiment and revelation of the Infinite ;
the Infinite is made to blend itself with the
Finite, to stand visible, and as it were,
attainable there.” Which is a quotation
useful to show the relation of Symbolism
with Mysticism. The Mystic, generally
speaking, is a person who, like everybody
else, finds himself unable to finally ex-
plain or account for the material Universe
which confronts him. Hence he spins a
beautiful series’ of dreams to convince
himself that the material Universe does
not really exist—it is a phantasm, a passing
show, an emanation of Deity which is only
worth studying for the sake of what it im-
plies. It is a kind of symbolic poem, in
fact, written by the Almighty Poet. The
ordinary eating-drinking-loving-swearing in-
dividual sees only the words of the poem—
the houses and trees, the women and
liquors ; but'the Mystic, by dint of turning
his eyes inward or Brahminically contemplat-
ing his navel, realises the secret meaning
of the poem. What the Religious Mystic
does with the universe the Literary Mystic
tries to do with language ; but the literary
result is usually less satisfactory. The Reli-
gious Mystic has his world ready made for
him to evolve hidden meanings from—and
very well made too, on the whole ; the crea-
tive Literary Mystic goes to work the
reverse way, and hides his meanings in
a poem. Then his disciples proceed to
find them out. The Poem is a mystic
universe, a finite clue to infinity. Yet the
literary disciple is in better case than the
religious disciple. If the religious mystic
fail to find the inner meaning of the universe
the fault is his alone —it is plain that he has
not sufficiently contemplated his navel. But
if the literary mystic fail to find the inner
meaning of the obscurities of Mallarme he
can shrug shoulders and hint that the Deity
is a better artificer than Mallarme.
Arthur Symons’s book deals with Gerard
de Nerval, Yilliers, Rimbaud, Verlaine,
Jules Laforgue, Mallarme, Huysmans, and
Maeterlinck. Gerard de Nerval (1808-55)
was a lunatic with poetic intervals, or a poet
with sane intervals. It was he who led a
lobster through the Palais Royal at the end
of a blue ribbon ; and he finally hanged
himself to a cabaret window with an apron-
string which he called the garter of the
Queen of Sheba. Of Yilliers (1838-90)
Symons says his last word is faith—
faith against the evidence of the senses, against
the negations of materialistic science, against the
monstrous paradox of progress, against his own
pessimism in the face of these formidable enemies.
He affirms ; he “ believes in soul, is very sure of
God ” ; requires no witness to the spiritual world,
of which he is always the inhabitant ; and is con-
tent to lose his way in the material world, brush-
ing off its mud from time to time with a disdain-
ful gesture, as be goes on his way (to apply a sig-
nificant word of Pater) “ like one on a secret
errand.”
Rimbaud (1854-91), and Verlaine—the
finest poet whom the Symbolists can claim—
have been recently scrutinised for this page.
Symons comments that Verlaine’s poetry
sums up in itself the whole paradox of humanity,
and especially the weak, passionate, uncertain,
troubled century to which we belong, in which so
many doubts, negations, and distresses seem, now
more than ever, to be struggling towards at least
an ideal of spiritual consolation. Verlaine is the
poet of these weaknesses and of that ideal.
Symons might have added that the artis-
tic valuq of Verlaine’s poetry, though doubt-
less a consequence of his character, is a
thing independent of his character. With
his lyric passion, bis sense of words, and his
power over musical combination of words,
he is independent of mystic theories. That
is to say, it is quite conceivable that as the
poet of materialism and reason—had his
character tended thither —he would have
achieved quite as high a poetic result a$ he
achieved in the region of misty Catholicism.
The power in him which made “ Sagesse ”
is a thing apart from the sentiments which
“; Sagesse ” expresses. ■ ■
Of Jules Laforgue (18(50-87) Symons says
that his art is an art of the nerves.” His
verse and prose are alike a land, of travesty,
making subtle use of colloquialism, slang, neolog-
ism, technical terms, for their allusive, then-
factitious, their reflected meanings, with which
one can play, very obviously. The verse is alert,
troubled, swaying, deliberately uncertain, hating
rhetoric .so .piously that it prefers, and finds its
piquancy in, the- ridiculously obvious. Laforgue
lias invented a new manner of being Rone or
Werther; an inflexible politeness towards man,
woman, and destiny. lie composes love poems
hat in hand, and smiles with an exasperating
tolerance before all the transformations of the
eternal feminine.
In this wise —
AUTRE COM PL A l NTE DE LORD PIERROT.
Celle qui doit me mettre au courant de la Femme !
Nous lui dirons d’abord, demon air le moins froid :
“ La Bomme des angles d’un triangle, oh&re ame,
Est egale ii deux droits.”
Et si ce cri lui part: “ Dieu de Dieu que je t’aime I’’
—“ Dieu reconnaitra les siens.” Ou piqude au vif ;
—“Mes claviers ont du eoeur, tu sera mon seul thfeme.”
Moi ; “ Tout est relatif.”
De tous ses yeux, alors 1 se sentant trop banale :
“ Ah ! tune m’aime pas ; taut d’autres sont jaloux 1 ”
Et moi, d’un mil quivers 1’ Inoonseient s’emballe
“ Merci, pas mal; et vous ? ”
“ Jouons au plus fidfele ! A quoi bon, 6 Nature I
“ Autaut a qui perd gagne.” Alors, autre couplet:
—“Ah ! tu te lasseras le premier, j’en suis shre.”
“ A pres vous, s’il vous plait.”
Enfin, si, par tin soir, elle meurt dans mes livres,
Douce ; feignant de n’en pas croire encor mes yeux,
J’aurai un : “ Ah, (;;i, mais, nous avions De Quoi vivre I
done s6rieux
And this is Symons's explanation of
—
To evoke, by some elaborate, instantaneous
magic of language, without the formality, of an
after all impossible description ; to be, rather than
to express : that is what Mallarme has consistently,
and from the first, sought in verse and prose.
. . . Remember his principle : that to name is to
destroy, to suggest is to create. Note, further,
that he condemns the inclusion in verse of any-
thing but, “ for example, the horror of the forest,
or the silent thunder afloat in the leaves, not the
intrinsic, dense wood of the trees.” ... In the
final result there must be no sign of the making,
there must be only the thing made. .... . “The
pure work implies the elocutionary disappearance
of the poet, who yields place to the words, immor-
talised by the shock of their inequality ; they take
light from mutual reflection, like an actual trail of
fire over precious stones, replacing the old lyric
afflatus or the enthusiastic personal direction of
the phrases.”
Of Huysmqns, Symons says—
We know that the finest imaginative work can
be built only out of the primary emotions. Here,
then, is a novelist who has obtained complete
mastery over one of the primary emotions, pre-
cisely because it has obtained complete mastery
over his own soul: the emotion of faith.
And of Maeterlinck—
Maeterlinck has realised, better than anyone
else, the significance, in life and art, of mystery.
He lias realised how unsearchable is the darkness
out of which we have but just stepped, and the
darkness into which we are about to pass.
Symons’s conclusion is an eloquent plea for
mysticism—which will convince those whom
it. is fitted to convince. To weak and
feminine minas mysticism will always
appeal, and with its appeal comes the emo-
tion requisite to the achievement of the
highest Art. But while blood is red, pulses
full, and brain strong, no man wittingly
adopts the creed of individual renunciation,
of worldly denial, and of living death.
Mysticism is associated with individual
decay or racial decadence. And though
Art be found in the mystic's quiet moonlit
paths rather than in the heat of worldly
effort and struggle, victory and defeat, yet *
since the universal doom is sure, let us
rather take it fighting than lying down.
For, though Art is good, Life is always
better.
The Utuander Grievances.
“ THIS LAND OF LlES.”—Winston Chuk.chili«.
More than anything else, it was the impression
that fellow-countrymen of our own have been the
victims of “Boer brutality” and “police terror-
ism ” that created a sentiment favorable to war.
The “helots” on the Rand, we were told by the
St. James's Gazette, “ have been robbed, assaulted,
murdered at the sweet will of Mi\ Kruger’s janis-
saries.” “ Every Boer,” said the Daily Mail,
“ believes that the Englishman is a creature who
can be spat upon,” and of the whole crisis no less
an authority than Sir A. Milner has said that it
“arose out of the Edgar incident.” The demand for
the franchise would not have brought war with it.
Mr. Kruger conceded what we had asked. More-
over, it was too notorious that the Uitlanders, in the
words of Mr. Lionel Phillips, did not “ care a fig”
about the franchise. If we are at war to-day it is
because the English public was convinced that the
lot of the Uitlander in some way resembled that
of the Armenian.
The most singular feature of this agitation is its
novelty. Compare the Uitlanders’ Petition of
1899 with the Pre-Raid Manifesto of 27 Dec., 1895,
and you will find that, while both documents com-
plain of the same economic grievances and the
same political wrongs, the former deals at great
length with the whole subject of the misconduct
of the police, a point regarding which the earlier
appeal is wholly silent. Now why did the Uit-
landers complain in 1895 of the dynamite mono-
poly, the educational grievances, the refusal of
the franchise, etc., and yet omit all reference to
the outrages which have brought at last the war
for which they clamored '! It was not from reti-
cence, it was not from a desire for moderation.
Have the Boors, then, in the interval, grown more
brutal, more violent, or have the Ujtlanders
learned at last the secret of successful agitation ?
An ingenious leading article in the 7 lines of Natal
has answered our question for us :
Franchise, paramountey, and so forth, have
been all very useful in the evolutionary pro-
cess of education. But before we shall have
finished we shall have to reach that point
when home opinion shall have come into line
with opinion in Natal as to the necessity for a
clean sweep of the present order of things in
the Transvaal and Orange Free Slate, and of
the Bond in Cape Colony. To do this there is
. but little cause now to harp Upon did well-
worn grievances. Those have already become
fairly well understood at home. The best
object lessons we can now employ are those
atrocities to our women and children. If wo
are to disarm those who are now against us at
home, and who will endeavour in the day of
our triumph to restore as much of the Boer
power as possible, out of a misplaced senti-
ment for. a weak foe, and who.could go frantic
over atrocities in Bulgaria, then, if they re-
quire atrocities to assist their comprehension of
facts, and to disarm their opposition, so be it.
It should not now be difficult to supply the
necessary chapter of horrors to strike the
imagination even of these good people.'
In other words, the failure “to supply the neces-
sary chapter of horrors ” was an unfortunate
omission in the campaign of 1895. It has now
been remedied, and our dull “imagination” lias
been stirred by “ atrocities Wo have been
“assisted” to understand the facts by a sort of
vigorous symbolism—much as a child is taught its
alphabet by pictures. Thanks to this lucky im-
provement in the method of illustrating and
adorning the truth, we are now at war.
. * . * ,*
For the most part the talk about outrages has
been somewhat vague. Thus the Daily Mdil
assured us on the 11th October that “the Eng-
lishman is fighting ... to protect his women'
from insult.” We have searched in vain through
the Mail file for any concrete case of outrage
against women. What we do find are stories of
hired villains who were “instructed” by the
Boers “to strip Englishwomen naked,” but for
some reason not stated did nothing of the kind.
Two genuine cases of murder have occurred. It is
really rather striking, that in a new country,
among a mining population, throughout a long
period of unrest and agitation,, there have been no
more than two. But let us take them in detail.
The Edgar incident is the more important.
It began with a drunken quarrel between
two Uitlanders, Edgar and Forster. Edgar
struck Forster, knocking him senseless, and
thereupon a third Uitlander named Sheppard
called for the police, who on their arrival
found Forster still senseless, whilst. Edgar
had got into his house and locked the door.
The police were informed that Edgar had
armed himself, and were discussing tne ques-
tion whether they should then force an entry
into his house, when the assembled Uitlanders
urged them to make the arrest at once, and
they determined to do so. The door was
easily forced, and the policeman in front;
whose name was Jones, was met by Edgar,
who struck at him with a formidable life pre-
server constructed of tough wood, with an iron
nut screwed on one end and a loop at the
other for the wrist. Either blow would have
killed the policeman if it had reached its
mark. Thereupon Jones drew Lis revolver
and fired at Edgar, intending, as he said, to
disable him only, but the bullet entered the
heart and killed him. Forster died from the
injuries inflicted by Edgar. Jones was put
upon his trial and acquitted on the ground
that he acted in self-defence. Jones, by the
way, was the son of a Welsh father and a
Dutch mother.
This incident is admittedly the kernel of the
whole case against the Boers. The villain of’ the.
piece was not himself a Boer, he acted in self-
defence, and at the worst was only a trifle hasty
in anticipating the work of the common hangman.
Yet the Welshman Jones is to-day the type of the
brutal Boer and the murderer Edgar the personi-
fication of the oppressed Uitlander.
The second murder that is cited as a proof that
“the lives of British subjects are insecure inthe
Transvaal,” is the distressing Applebe case. Mrs.
Applebe was murdered under circumstances of
great brutality, but her assailants have never been
discovered, and the chances are that they were not
Boers, or even Uitlanders, but natives. It is the
failure to find them that is made a charge against
the Boers. With much greater reason one might
argue that “the lives of British subjects” were
“insecure ” in Whitechapel some few years ago.
* * * •
It seems needless to labor the question further.
Had the Boer police been systematically brutal,
would we find to-day that thousands of non-British
Uitlanders were fighting for the Transvaal and
not a man of them for England ? So strong is this
argument that the Daily Mail was obliged to anti-
cipate it with a lie. Thus on 29th June it Said
that “practically the whole of the non-English
Uitlanders who are not on Mr. Kruger’s pay-Jists
are with Sir Alfred Milner ” ; and again on 31st
Aug., “The Scandinavians have rejected a pro-
posal to form a volunteer corps.” Some scores of
them fell gallantly in the cause of their oppressors
at Magersfontein. To dispose finally of the legend
of Mr. Kruger’s system of terrorism, it is only
necessary to quote the only independent investi-
gator sent out by the English Press to Johannes-
burg—Mr. J. A. Hobson, who represented the
Manchester Guardian. The rest of the English
Press was content to take its news from the
offices of Soutli African papers owned by the
Rhodeses, the Beits, and the Ecksteins. Mr.
Hobson says of Johannesburg :
Everyone who has lived in that golden city
is perfectly aware that liberty, not to say
license, of speech and action has prevailed to
an extent unknown in any other city of the
civilised world. This talk about “ helotry ”
and “the intolerable burdens of the Uit-
landers ” deceived no one in Johannesburg;
it was simply part of the jargon bv which a
clique of politicians handling the Press
operated upon the British Government and
public opinion for their own purposes
Scores of people whom I have closely ques-
tioned inform me that they have lived many
years in Johannesburg, moving about freely
at all hours, and have never got into any
trouble or been molested by the police ; the
condition of the streets even at a time of
public excitement like the present is far more
orderly .than that of largo districts of London.
But there were other kindred grievances. It is
said that in Johannesburg there was neither right
of public meeting nor freedom for the Press.
There was also the “education” grievance. Let
us glance at these in detail :
1. This complaint is founded on the fact that
on one occasion a mass meeting of “reformers”
was broken up. Some weeks later something of
the kind occurred in Trafalgar Square. But both
of these, let us hope, were isolated cases. A suc-
cessful meeting of protest against -Boer rule was
held unmolested in Johannesburg on 12 June.
The Jingo Press, when it suited its argument,
used to appeal to the support of “ mass meetings
held everywhere up and down the Rand.”
2. The Press, so far from being let and hindered,
indulged in daily provocations, in daily invective
against Mr. Kruger and the Boers. How coarse
and violent its language was only a series of quota-
tions for which we have not space would
adequately show. Ultimately Mr. Pakeinan, of
the Leader, was arrested. He had openly preached
treason. In the Leader of 29th August appears
the following :
The abolition of the Republic is not the end
we anticipated and hoped for; yet we fully
recognise the necessity for the step in view of
the hopeless attitude of the Gdvernment.
Would we have tolerated such talk in Ireland in
the days of the Coercion Act ?
3. The grievance regarding education was that
in the State-aided schools of the Dutch republic,
Dutch was the language of instruction. It seems
a natural state of affairs. English voluntary
schools existed for Uitlander children.
* * * *
We have left to the last a set of grievances
which were genuine. There can be.no doubt that
the administration of the Transvaal was on the
whole corrupt and unstatesmanlike, and that its
fiscal system was vicious. The Uitlanders made
organised efforts to corrupt the Boers, as Mr.
Leonard admits. ( Appendix to Report on the Raid,
p. 591.) They succeeded so far as to make the
petty venality of the Boers a nuisance; their
votes, however, were never for sale. A nuisance
Pretoria no doubt was, as Tammany Hall and
Yildiz Kiosk and the Tsung-li-Yamen are
nuisances. But who would dare say that all this
justified war? The taxes were rather wrong in
their incidence than excessive in their amount,
The Government had a right to raise a revenue
from the gold extracted from its soil. It chose to
do it by monopolies and indirect taxation. Its
fiscal policy, like that of the Cape, was strin-
gently Protectionist. As a result everything was
dear, from dynamite and railway rates down to
soda-water. This, if the Uitlanders were only
honest, was the grievance that really brought
about the war. Real grievances though these were,
note that they fell rather on a few capitalists than
on the mass of the Uitlander population. If prices
were dear, wages were high, and thus the burden
really lay on the mine-owners on the Rand and the
shareholders at home. Professional men were not
grievously taxed. Thus Mr. Leonard, in his evi-
dence before the Select Committee in 1897, ad-
mitted that from an income of £lO,OOO he paid
only £l5O in taxes, even including those which are
indirect. Working-men were practically exempt.
(See “Report of Select Committee on Raid,” p.
xlviii., §15.) The fact is that the war has been waged
to day with no other object than to raise the dividends
of a few gold-mines. There would have been no
Stormberg disaster, no Magersfontein massacre,
no Tugela repulse, if, instead of talking of out-
rages and atrocities, the Uitlander magnates and
the Press they owned had honestly said that what
they really wanted was cheaper dynamite and a
lower wages bill. — London Morning Leader.


STOPS COLD
This Well-known Remedy Tor *
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Safe and pleasant for Children.
Wa
I use a good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had Whcoping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.*’—E. M. D., The Elms,
June, 1893. Faringdon.
AGENTS—Elliott; Hoffnung • Dnerdin;
A. Drug Co.; Felton; Faulding; Falh.
CURES COUGH
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYNE.
Oatltion. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—.
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWN€.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If T were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say CHLORODYNE. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its Ixist recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
n
Wo grant every purchaser
of our
klkctric
JtISLTS and
a vi>r:iA jvc ns
a trial oC 30 days before
payment, which' is fully
explained in our “ 15IJCC-
TItIC ERA.” Our Electric
U< its will cure all NEli-
VO US and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Eleotric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Eleotric Belt.that, it
"ill permanently cure you. It it does not, we w'li
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purHiasiujr, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free', yiviiuf
il’nstrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES)
Iso Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Ageccy
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
*
2
Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor.— STEPHEN GREEN,
210 Lambeth Rb., London, S.E.
Those suffering- from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my Invaluable Httle pamphlet.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MAUNG’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
“LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LICMOLLIENE never fails to CURE ECZEMA (“Psoriasis
Acne”). BARCOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing Chemist, BALLARAT, VIC.
HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL. .
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS of ENERGY,
etc. Has CURED Thousands for the BLOOD,
SKIN, NERVES, RHEUMATISM, etc.
“WORDS or WISDOM.- TU ,j MeßMkdoot
the Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40
pages of useful information, and will be posted in
plain cover absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address ; •
The Irving Homoeopathic Co.,
Comer Hunter and Bligh Streets,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering gfJCRASY.
It can be riven in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
th-* knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
nt ver fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
t .i. monials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRA3Y COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
C. 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
2 6 POST F **EE.
Vi?
m mam
W. JNO. BAKER’S
DOWNY-TAN
RAZOR STROPS
Made from Australian-yrovm
Leather.
CANVAS and LEATHER (as illustrated) .. 2/6 post free.
SILK and LEATHER (as illustrated) .. 3 3 post free.
Worked up ready for use. With each Strop is given free one
of W. Jno. Baker’s Registex-ed Strop Boxes.
BAKER, CUTLER, 3 hunter-st. 7
THE
Co-Operative Woo! & Produce Co
T.TTVrT'I’-RTI
Offices:
LIMITED.
12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores Central Wharf.
CHARGE- 3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
—Opossum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
STU WE "ST,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
New Zea Sand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
I m New South Wales and Queensland.
, A h % D r ol ,^ ion .°f fch< ? Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
n ATHpn mmiTOOT/n! ' V r “° ,y same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
- y AIM MISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
PbTcf 'r JaTS'&T® uxM, IU f TTKR the characfce * of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER ihe CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etq,), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.
the charge will be
On Wools realising fid. and over 4d. per lb.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ...
be q?oted P o??ppSoi° ther thaU W ° ol) ’ Viz -’ BkinS ’ HideS ’ T;lll0W ’ etc ” SPECIAL RATES will
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES hgainst Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE,
tor Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sa l es oT NEaraupial Skins Lic-lcL Weekly.
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. fid. -per Bale.
LAWRENCE’S PATENT TOBACGO CUTTER.
Price £6.
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
Note.—These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended to tobacconist*
m the country, so as to enable them to supply their customers witl, Fresh-Cut and Moist Tobacco
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.
UIUJUUItfj
a
sj?
(IS
IV!
Cl
1
I
rC
A
T
M
m
N
Combines Perfection of
Quality with Absolute
Purity.
IN
H ACK BOTTLE
AjJD
BULK
EVERYWHERE.
V w OLX> **
CHEAP AND FASHIONABLE TAILORING.
(t). King-street, Newtown (near Sydney,
N. S. W.), has recently made great additions and im-
p r?y el ? en , ts 10 hjs Tailoring Department, which is now one
of the features of his extensive business. He receives regu-
lar shipments, from his Home buyers, of all the newest and
most fashionable goods, and has one of the smartest cutters
in the colony-. Everything is made to measureon the pre-
mises; a perfect fit is guaranteed, and patrons may rely on
every satisfaction being given. Self-measurement forms
and patterns sent free by post. Hatte’ssuitsof Indigoserge,
all-wool tweeds, and sergerettes (with extra pair of trousers
given in) for 42, - are the marvel of tailoring and the talk of
Australasia, for 50;- Hatte makes a suit of tweed or serge
nt for a prince. Inspect or send for patterns of his new
woollens, comprising vicunas. West of England, Scotch and
Blarney tweeds, at 57/6, and 65/- ; the great value offered.
Hatte makes a smart Chesterfield overcoat from meltons,
vicunas, and Venetians from 45/-, and the new paddock
coat, with full back, side vents, crescent pockets, silk-faced
and velvet collar for 55/-. Hatte’s speciality is in dress-
suits, starting at £3 3s, made of purple dye elastic coating
with silk-facing. For excellence of material, perfect fit,
latest fashion, and superior workmanship, Hatte is un-
equalled, whilst his charges are au least 30 per cent, under
those of ordinary city tailors.
"I'll Try Tt.
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
Price. I Os. (><i.
Sole Agents:
The Result
Craig & Aitken, 680-652 George- at,. Sydney
AM US IC3I UNI' for OLD and IOU\G.
Wonderful Value a Packet of Seven Different Article#,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Hook of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondike Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
\ ankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
P ish (gives the definition of vour character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magio
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. Gd.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
X7l6>j> and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
II. D. DUTCHINSON, Manager.
_ Medical.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
m
medicatoh.
OATARRH is inflammation of the
v ' lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the pnssaires which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal hones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, Da
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non>e Catarrh Ctirc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
“ COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM ”
THE
DEAF
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying l every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-dav for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
(The B. and N. Treatment).
* v . N "2 ern,,s testimniiiala have been received certifying'to
°J. th, f '."edicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility.
Energy, Anaemia Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many quack remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. NEUROZONE is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most, reputable phar-
JPrl'ce, lO S '. S 6d C °a bS" W ‘ th unqualifl<; ‘ 1 confidence -
The fvlcdscaJ Agency s
271 UOLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
n
mn
Bender. why not be able to use the
I niost mysterious ami powerful force of
nature? Bv my method you can learn
to H pnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
that are po f-ible to the Hypnonist
Through Hypnotism you cr«n cure disease
conquer pain, win reluctant affection
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
! Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It coutains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever publ shed. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to a!1 who apply.
I.’ e member this costs you in-th-
in . A postal card will bring it. ,
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-»
no l ize. It s a chance of
lifa-time. Address—
m
Prof. R. H. BARRAGES,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir.—Please inform your readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
leniedv. and will be pleased to send the means of cure
tend s i (T> Tors. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
tnakt n > charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers
1 itt-street, Sydnej - .
n
▲
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE
CRAWFORD BTREET. DUNEDIN. «
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
iIiCH-GRA DE FAR M
! rvi P j;EME NTS
AC HINERY.


Address :
Care GEO. A.TDAIVL s,
Hobart.
May 24
Birthday C.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
%/To TATTETvSALL.
Please allot me .
shares in above.
Name,
Address
Birthday C.
‘ i
DRAWN MORNING OF THE RACE.
£O,OOO Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me ' shares in the above.
■ . • .1
Name ___
Address !
* :
Ellesmere S.
June 1.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address
«
Newcastle C.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
June 7.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
shares in the above.
Name
Address _
Canterbury Midwinter H.
June 23.
50,000 Sulbsoribera at 5*
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me. shares in above.
Name
Address
*
£ t
Grand National H. Ju| y 7
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL. *
Please allot me. \ sharers in the above.
I ■\; . • '
/ Name ' ' ' ' ' .
' \
Add ress
Melbourne 0. November 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
-Please allot me shares in the above.
A.' ■ • *n
IST ame I
Address
Melbourne C. Fovember 6.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name ; ; '
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
r: ' : ■ . b;- b*. bbb ■ bf" ■ - ■.’bb/.ib
“ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.
b: ~ •
; V '-■? AU T-: T 1 .:-:


MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring: Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
aoctt sts
' ro ,®V tes ’ *.
BOSteW S
*«**
lflsl Ctt* eS
te*- atv d V, ds .
atvd Coia
Co fU^
d«
uvO'
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
ip.'
MELBOURNE.
Booms and Accommodation—all prices— ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Booms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING BOOMS AND CAFE
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Manager.
USB
Spoopgr’s
jj^oONE^
'ROM *AV( MM
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
; OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
DIREC HONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Elack Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation.
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
C.
Cf\r\r\rs\r\j
0-0 TO HELL-
KJOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real pood stamps, sendto
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
Australia!) Provident Society,
MONEY TO LEND ~
Gn security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New IVTortgage Deed con tains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-streefc. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
m
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 155.,
£8 155., £lO 10s./
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
&3T Send for Price List. TSJ
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-stx*eet.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
n
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIEK. 120 Sxissex-street.
Works : MKLBOUKNK-S'X., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &e., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
(
n
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAI
R
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
- HAIR FALLING
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
mn
The
Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
UNION,
says
“ I hare used
your J KGKO ’
now since Jui,c
lust, ami I have
not onlv st pped
the falling out, I
which had been
excessive after a
severe illness,hut
Ihavean entirely
new growth of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As I am not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this is a
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion."
V;
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
KOKO MARICQPAS COY., LTD., 16,' BEVIS MARKS. LONDON, ENGLAND.)
Harry Franks,
VICKERY’S BUILDINGS,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I have the representation in Australasia of this
“DEY REGISTER.
Used by Employers as a check on th -ir Employees.
Kl
Call and see same at
above address, it is
well worth inspection ;
or write for particulars.
m
I have the representation also of the
“HAMILTON
CASH REGISTER.”
Certainly the CHEAPEST on the market,
and AS GOOD AS ANY out here.
If you are a Buyei* of a CASH REGISTER,
I can SAVE you MONEY on your Purchase.
EDM AJS b ON A CO., Block Arcade, Melbourne A dent.
U.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery Manf. Company,
Note our New Address: 193 to 195 Clevelaud-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description oi
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription' at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUK SPKCUTi Xo. 2
£8 18/6
nm
Delivered at any Wharf «r
N.B.W. Railway Station
£lO 10/-
Bards of the Backhlocks.
Groom and Glory Boys!
(Dedicated- to various Australian Contingents.)
When you’re lyin’ in your hammock, sleepin’ soft
and sleepin’ sound,
Without a cai* or trouble on vour m.nd,
And there’s nothin’ to disturb you but the engines
goin’ round,
And you’re dreamin’ of the girl you left behind ;
In the middle of your joys you’ll be wakened by a
noise
And a clatter on the deck above your crown,
And you’ll hear the corporal shout as he turns the
picket out,
“ There’s another blanky ’orse fell down ! ”
You can see ’em of a mornin’, when you're cleanin’
out the stall,
A-leanin’ on the railin’, nearly dead,
And you reckon by the evenin’ they’ll be pretty
safe to fall,
And you curse them as you tumble into bed.
Oh, you’ll hear it very soon, “ Pass the word to
Denny Moon !
There’s a ’orse ’ere throwin’ ’andsprings like a
clown,”
And “Ere, shove the others back or’e’ll cripple
half the pack—
There’s another blanky ’orse fell down !”
And when the war is over, and the fightin’ all is
done,
And you’re safe at home with medals on your
chest,
And you’ve learnt" to sleep so soundly that the
firin’ of a gun
At your “ear-hole” wouldn’t rob you of your
rest;
As you lie iii slumber deep, if your wife walks in
her sleep
And tumbles down the stairs and breaks her
crown,
Oh, it won’t awaken you, for you’ll say “It’s
nothin’ new,
It’s another blanky horse fell down ! ”
* This was, it is said, written by “ someone who went
to Africa in the s.s. Kent.” It bears the stamp of
“ Banjo."
The Revival.
Comes a spirit working mightily for grace
To our little river township now and then.
When it’s here you feel it stirring in the place,
And you see it in the faces of the men ;
There’s a hush by day—the cursing tongue is still;
And the street is dark and empty in the night,
But the chapel on the hill is a thumping gospel
mill,
And a beacon of salvation blazing bright.
Hallelujah, sing to glo-er-ee ! Ha'lelujah, ahmen !
Hear the old rip-snorting chorus rovr right up the
sky again,
Rake the hottest, lowest level,
Making trouble for the devil.
Hallelujah, ahmen !
There’s a travelling evangelist on hand ;
He’s a monument of piety and zeal,
And he makes the blackest sinners understand,
And the harder kind of infidel to feel,
’Tis a day-and-night revival. Oh ! it’s rare
When the choir has got her going well and
strong,
And the hundred brothers there get a hitch upon
the air,
And they lash the spinning world with whips of
song.
Hallelujah ! sing to glo-er-ee ! Hallelujah, ahmen !
There’s no stiff knee in the chapel, there’s no
grinning scoffer then —
When we hear the angels o’er us
Taking up the grand old chorus,
Hallelujah, ahmen !
At the pub the landlord’s standing by the door,
And a cloud of care is black upon his brow,
For the men are swearing off it by the score,
And the sisters will not touch or taste it now.
Women’s voices that were awful in the night,
When the bottle went too often to the bar,
Swelling yonder in their might, all with harmony
unite
In the hymn that shakes the gates of God ajar.
Hallelujah, sing to glo-er-ee ! Hallelujah, ahmen !
Souls go soaring on the music, through the open
windows then,
Up to see the White Throne flaming,
Hear the million harps exclaiming—
Hallelujah, ahmen!
Now the town has got religion, carnal mirth
Has no savor for the men, and every Miss
Has been raised above the vanities of earth,
And there’s only saintly comfort in the kiss:
Wives are meek and men are mild in words and
deeds,
But a wonderful distraction they can find
When the sup’rintendent reads, and the Rev.
Prater leads,
And the hymn goes by like thunder on the wind.
Hallelujah, sing to glo-er-ee ! Hallelujah, ahmen !
When the well-remembered chorus rakes the
startled sky again,
And it haunts the quaking devil
In his hottest, lowest level.
Hallelujah, ahmen !
V.
EDWARD DYSON.


THE
PLUM
-
Price—SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather-
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires sjriridini' WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRA.IGr & A.IXKEKT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDRTEY.
The Australian Widows’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
'T'HIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRAT ta
which issues Special Policies granting— auoiKALU
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood
A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board of Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
. I<ci emulated Fluids ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 6E086E STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, *900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COIVEFKTXTAOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only o) SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
YOU
have created our reputa-
tion and name ; and for
30 YEARS we have never failed to honor your confidence. We ask you to honor us
by supporting us, WHO, OF YOUR MAKING, are
The Largest All-Round Brokers in New South Wales.
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L T ?
Financiers; Wool, Hides, Tallow, Skins, and General Produce Brokers.
TQSECURETHESENU/yj^
aNvaa 3HiiVAnnJ3^fi
%
=5O
u
/v
N
$
n
m
STICK T©
CIGARETTES
£
[|V
&
§
*
0
*
9
*
M
y/i
m
m
&
*
SR
0
mart Costume
is NOT
SUITED TO ALL
BUT
n mum house
A
MINER’S CAMP
TO
MAY BE
MADE TO FIT ALL
STATIONS IN
LIFE
a Gentleman
’s B
UNGALOW
There’s lots of points re P & B Ruberoid
that we cannot specify here —all explained
in our little booklet fresh from'the press.
A postal card request brings it to you—
better write to-da.v.
Then there s B & P Insulating Paper * un-
equalled the world over for refrigeration
Write us for testimonials from men you know.
E. RICH&CO. LI9
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
EXCLUSIVELY SQUATTERS’ SUPPLY MERCHANTS.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
You 21.-No. 1057.
SATURDAY, MAY 19, 1900.
Prior 6d.
RAT-TAT-TAT!
“I really must look in here just to prevent interprovincial jealousy.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
y New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you' may ' pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you-can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
■week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
Jto be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tivo columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in lilacJc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will fee received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 11 and IS Wool Exchange,
London, E.C. ; Cordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 3K6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., S Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 33 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, S. A ustralia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exemption to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition o/ljd. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l \d. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, MAY 19, 1900.
G. R. Dibbs, Australian Nationalist and
Jingo-Imperialist.
Tub question of creating a standing army [in Australia] is
one which to my mind is almost more repulsive than the
question of re-adjustment of territorial boundaries. It
means the existence in our midst of a certain number of
idle men—men sharpening their knives and their swords
for the first fitting opportunity of fleshing them on the
people of their own country, BECAUSE WE HAVE NO
OTHER ENEMIES. . . . This question of the creation of
a military force is one of the blots upon these resolutions.
We want no military force in N.S.W. . . . We have no
enemies within and there is no necessity to fasten THE
CURSE OF A STANDING ARMY upon us. . . . Our own
police are quite sufficient for the preservation of order
within. . . . I presume, then, that members of the conven-
tion are prepared at once to give the go-by altogether to
the idea of Imperial Federation. . . . But we are laying
the foundation and step by step are following in the iines
of a great nation and IN DUE TIME WE SHALL BE-
COME, WHAT AMERICA HAS BECOME, A SEPARATE,
FREE AND INDEPENDENT STATE.
.... Whenever 1 have the opportunity I will do my
utmost to cut down the military spirit and to instil into
the people of this land a love of their homes , and also the
necessity of defending them in the only legitimate manner.
.... THEFUTURE OF AUSTRALIA MUST BE “A
NEW BfyTANNIA,” WITH HER OWN FLAG.
.... the national spirit of the rising generation of
Australia is instinct with freedom which will impel our
people at the earliest possible moment to form a nation of
their own. That is the aspiration, instinct and spirit I
hope of young Australia. [Thus, at the Federal Conven-
tion of iB9l, spoke G. Republican Dibbs, who now struts
round Sydney with a sword and things and has the front
to cable ’Ome, as voicing the opinions of 82,000 N.S.W.
electors, an expression of approval of the proposed amend-
ment of clause 74 of the Commonwealth Bill.]
* * * *
“ The War—lts Speedy and Successful Termination ”
was proposed by Sir George Dibbs. It seemed to him, he
said, an extraordinary thing that he, a man of unexampled
peace—(laughter)—should be called upon to propose a
toast which had to do with war. Without taking his
audience too much into his confidence, he might say he
had been essentially a man of peace. (Laughter). When
he went to church the one prayer which evoked his
heartiest response was “Give us peace in our time, O
Lord.” But there were two ways of maintaining peace.
His idea of the best way was never tor be stamped on
without your own consent. '(Laughter.) In the law
courts, in Parliament, and in other ways, his idea had
been to have his own way—to have it peaceably, if
possible. (Laughter.) If he might touch more imme-
diately on the theme, it had, moreover, bound us closer to
the mother-country. (Applause.) Now, to his mind, it
was only a question of time before England must conquer
the whole of Africa, and it would be to Australia’s credit,
as well as her interest, to assist to that end. Finally,
then, while they all wished for the speedy and successful
termination of the war, the best way to preserve peace
was to be prepared for war. (Cheers.)—G. R. Dibbs,
as per Sydney daily paper report, 20th April,
At one time, not so long ago either, George
Dibbs was practically a republican. He was a
republican, an Australian Nationalist, and a
believer in separation from Britain, right
up to the time when he went to England
and accepted (purely “to oblige a lady”) a
title from Queen Victoria. His republican
ideas fled when he got a large, black cigar
from the next heir to the throne and had
his paw vibrated by that personage. And
now 1
* * * *
George Dibbs, in the loyal fury of his old
age, demands that Australia shall bear a
hand at making all Africa British. To do
that means war with Germany, France,
Italy, Turkey, Spain, Morocco, the Arab
tribes of the Soudan, Abyssinia, the still
semi-independent Gold Coast kingdoms,
possibly with Portugal, and also with any
outside State which may think that Britain’s
difficulty is her opportunity. It means the
biggest fight that Britain ever saw, or heard,
or dreamt of. And when the fight is over, if
it ever is oyer, it means the addition of some
hundred million more niggers to the millions
of undigested niggers that Britain has
already to keep in order ; and millions more
square miles of territory to police; and
more frontiers to defend, and more enemies
to face, and more white man’s burden to
hump through a weary, waterless land.
• * * *
It is one thing to annex empty, or nearly
empty, countries in the temperate zone
where the Anglo-Saxon race can spread and
the Anglo-Saxon nation grow bigger. It is
another thing, but still not a very different
thing, to annex countries occupied by white
races who may be completely assimilated
by-and-bye, and become as British and as
enthusiastic in the defence of the British
Empire as the British themselves. But it
is quite a different thing to annex hundreds
of millions of brown and black and yellow
men—of Moslems, Buddhists, Brahmins,
idolaters, naked men, and men who are
mostly naked, and women to match. They
can t be racially assimilated ; if a process of
inter-marriage set in, the British nation
would vanish, and not leave a white
streak on the surface of all this blackness
and brownness and yellowness. They can’t
be politically assimilated ; even if they were
educated up to the British standard, Britain
can’t give them an equal franchise and let
the huge brown and black majority rule the
empire. In many cases they can’t even be
policed by scattering permanent British
settlements through their country, because
in many of their countries the Briton can’t
permanently reside. If their white con-
querors educate them, the time must come
when they will be so far educated that they
will demand to share in the government of
the empire—which will make trouble. If
their white conquerors don’t educate them,
they remain the same unreliable savages,
which makes the work of government all the
more dangerous. Britain is the very newest
and shortest-lived of the great world empires
and hasn’t yet begun to know how her great
annexation policy will pan out. It is only
within the last 50 years or so that she has
gone in for nigger-owning on a stupendous
scale. The question of how many niggers
one white man can keep in order is unsettled
as yet.
* * * *
At all events, it is certain that there must
be some number of niggers that are too many
niggers for even Britain to be responsible
for. Britain’s responsibilities are growing
far faster than her population, and the line
of armed men that she cfin spread round her
frontiers isn’t half as thick a line as it was
even in the memory of men now living. And
the kind of patriot who urges Britain to rush
in and annex all the niggers available is just
the same kind of evil genius as urged
Napoleon I. to over-balance himself reach-
ing out for the last scrap of Europe at
Moscow. To fight half Europe for the
possession of the great African desert and
the great African fever-swamps, and for the
right to keep order among some of the most
aggressive tribes on earth, is much the same
as fighting eight men for a venomous serpent.
But, if Dibbs’s proposition is a disastrous
one as regards Britain, it is still more so as
regards Australia. That wild, hairy enthusiast
proposes that this country, with a population
of only 4,000,000, should actively assist in
fighting France, Germany, Spain, Turkey,
Morocco, Abyssinia, Italy and some sundries,
in order to'tear from them their African
possessions. Dibbs himself, so far as the
world knows, has never seen a shot fired in
anger, except possibly when he became
cross while aiming at a native bear. The
worst enemy he encounters is a column of
figures that won’t add up properly in the
Savings Bank. If the awful war to which he
is sooling on his country did come in his
lifetime, he is too old to go to it; he would
remain at home and prance in a gorgeous
uniform at the head of his National Guard.
And under these circumstances
♦ * * *
It is questionable if any man over 65
should have a vote or be qualified to sit in
Parliament. Old men are mostly divided
into two classes—those who don’t want
reform because they won’t live to see the
benefits of it, and those who don’t care
what happens because they won’t, be, here
when the disastrous consequences arrive.
Ex-republican Dibbs appears qualified for
membership of both classes. He is too old
to be impressed into active military service,
and too old to expect, in the ordinary course
of nature, that he will be here when the
awful bill for his great war is presented for
payment. From the safe pinnacle of his
years he can propose almost anything. And
though Australia knows its Dibbstoo well to
take him seriously, the trouble is that other
countries don’t know him so well. He has
been three times Premier, and for many
years a notable figure in the polities of the
leading Australian province. He has left
his big, irresponsible ink-splash dabbed
largely and liberally on its history. He has
been received in England with attentions
which were probably owing only to his re-
markable length and the breeziness of his
manners, but which seemed to mark him as
a man of some political weight. People
outside Australia may easily make the mis-
take of taking Dibbs for a statesman.
* * * *
If there were a few dozen important poli-
ticians like Dibbs in the empire, that empire
would probably soon be ruined, and Aus-
tralia would be ruined first of all. The
politician who gets up apropos of nothing in
particular, and proposes ejecting three great
Powers and five secondary ones, all eight
being then at peace with us, if he is a big
enough man for his warning to be taken
seriously, is merely a first-class bungler for
giving these eight Powers notice to get
ready for the fray. When he is merely a
small political bygone, the ornament of a
gaudy and absurd company of doddering
volunteers, and a personage who peacefully
pursues the humble threepenny up and
down a column of a bank ledger, then his
obscurity may save him from being danger-
ous, but not from being ridiculous. Dibbs
is either dangerous or ridiculous, according
to his size. The fact that not one of the
Ministers present when the remarkable
utterance was made rose and explained that
Australia had no desire at present to eject
eight friendly nations out of Africa would
possibly leave an impression that they and
the people they represented were also
anxious to tear up Europe by the roots in a
general sort of way. No British statesman
goes round trying to make needless enemies
in this loud, roaring, off-hand fashion.
• * f *
The saying that the surest way to preserve
peace is to be ready for war is only half a
truth. To be ready for war is the surest
way to preserve peace, and it is also the
surest way to break it. The nation that is
ready for war often escapes being attacked
by other nations, but it also becomes so
inflated over its readiness that it generally
ends by itself attacking other nations. But
if a nation which isn’t ready for war grows
so inflated that it talks of fighting eight
other nations it is a painful situation. That
is Australia’s case, if Dibbs represents Aus-
tralia. So far this country has supplied,
for about three months, one-fortieth part
of the army which hasn’t yet managed to
extinguish a very small white nation—almost
the smallest white nation in the world. That
is no reason to begin talking about our
joyous readiness to help in a war against
eight good-sized nations—a war that might
last ten years or more. The alleged Boers
who are said to have contemplated seizing
London after their success at Majuba were
not a circumstance compared to this folly.
And Australia isn’t going to be always
mad. It doesn’t want to perpetually
seek the bubble debenture at the cannon’s
mouth. It isn’t going to conquer Africa
in general, nor Europe, nor Asia, nor
America. It isn’t going to send ColonelNEiLD
to burn Moscow a second time. Because it
has had a look-in at some small skir-
mishes with a nation that, all told, has less
than half the population of Sydney, it doesn’t
desire to quarrel with France, Germany,
Italy, Turkey, and Spain simultaneously. It
doesn’t want a war-debt of £100,000,000 or
so. It doesn’t propose to be a raging lunatic
all its life, nor does it want to make itself
ridiculous by offering advice to the British
Empire at banquets, nor to spend all its
existence killing people who have done it no
harm. In short, it repudiates Savings-Bank
manager Dibbs.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Joe Chamberlain’s Whim.
We thought in Australia that we were self-
governing communities in all that did not concern
British Imperial interests. We thought that, re-
solved on union of the haphazard provinces which
have taken root and grown in Australia, we could
unite. We thought that a measure of Federation
devised by the ablest among us, debated for years
by Press and Platform, approved by ten Houses of
Parliament, carried by vast majorities at a
referendum of the People, would be safe from
captious British interference. But we reckoned
without the influence of anti-Federal wire-pullers
in London. And we reckoned without Joe
Chamberlain. That miniature maker of E.npire;,
it is cabled, has given ear to the anti-Federal
cry, and has resolved upon submitt.ng the
Australian Commonwealth Bill to the British
Parliament with such alterations as in his Ja;t
Napoleonic mood seem fit. The British Cabinet
—a fine collection of fossil Tories —is, it appears,
ready to follow Chamberlain’s sphere-shaking
nod. So we are to learn this week —as Ireland
has already learnt—what measure of self-govern-
ment the British Tories are prepared to allow
“self-governing Australia.” .We are to see at
what price the British House of Commons values
the magnificent assistance recklessly given by
Australia to the British arms. We are to receive
our reward for self-sacrifice to England—even as
Ireland has received it. Our new Constitution is
to be thrown into the British melting-pot—and
how will it come out ? This much is clear—t. at
Chamberlain and his Cabinet {.for the Cabinet
does his bidding so blindly that he is the real Prime
Minister of Britain) allege their resolve to flout the
Australian majorities in the interest of the minori-
ties. This much is certain —that at the root of
the sectional clamour for amendnient in the Bill
lies the defeated anti-Federal opposition to th§
Bill. Australia bruised the serpent’s head, dnd it
crawls upoif'its belly to England to bruise her heel.
Well do the anti-Federalists know that even one
amendment will invalidate the whole Constitu-
tion. If the Bill comes back from London altered
in one iota, then it is not the Bill which Australia
approved—and short of another popular vote
there is no authority in Australia to approve it.
The Premiers cannot. The Parliaments cannot.
Nobody but the people can unsay what the people
has said. Nothing but another referendum can
overthrow the original referendum. And, if we
are to have another referendum, all the old
strife begins anew. The minorities will fight
their battle all over again. Our labor of years
may be brought to naught in a moment at the
whim of the British Parliament. The Transvaal
has found the worth of acknowledged indepen-
dence when it conflicts with the interests of the
British money-lender. Australia seems about to
learn the same lesson.
♦
Which Csesar ?—A Privy Council Dilemma.
Quite a treatise could be written on the anomalies
of Privy Council law, but the following VvilL pet-
haps illustrate as effectively as anything thfi sanity
of the P.C. constitution. In one case; Thimble v,
HiLLj decided in 1879, the PriVy Council rapped
the majority of the Judges of N.S.W. Supreme
Court severely On the knuckles for refusing to be
bound by a decision of the English Court of
Appeal which conflicted witli a previous decision
of the local Supreme Court. (The case was with
reference tb the right to recbver a deposit in a
wagering contract from a stakeholder.) The
Privy Council thus laid it down that colonial
courts were to follow the Court of Appeal
on pain of being upset and abused by the
P.C. But the English Court of Appeal has
repeatedly refused to be bound by the de-
cisions of the Privy Council. In a bill of
lading case (Lkask v. Scott) about 1877 it refused
to follow the much-belauded Oassar, and expressly
stated that it was not bound by his authority.
Similarly in 18% in the case of Pugh v. London
and Brighton Railway Co. the Court of Appeal
treated a Privy Council decision, which is binding
on the Supreme Court of Victoria till the P.C.
changes its mind, as open to question. (If the
legal advocate of the retention of the P.C. appeal
wishes to learn how contemptuously its decisions
are treated, not only by the Court of Appeal, but
by the Irish courts, the American courts and even
the single judges of the English bench, let him
look up the case of Wilkinson v. Downton,
decided by the English Queen’s Bench Division in
1897.) The beautiful dilemma evolvable out of the
above would need a Gilbertian opera to do it
justice. The law tells the colonial Court to
follow the Privy Council, the Privy Council tells
the colonial Court to follow the English Court of
Appeal, and the English Court of Appeal refuses
to follow the Privy Council. It’s a lovely com-
mentary on the “ uniformity of law throughout
the Empire ” we hear so much about nowadays.
If a Judge in the colonies follows the P.C. in cer-
tain cases, he will assuredly be wrong, for the
P.C. has laid it down that he must follow the
Court of Appeal; and if he follows the Court of
Appeal in such cases he is also sure to be wrong,
for the law lays it down that he must follow the
Privy Council. The appeal to Cassar ? Welland
good, but xvhich Caesar ?
The “S.M. Herald’s” Tune Changes.
“There was a disposition soon after the war
began to credit the worst of the Boers as foemen.
Their bitter hostility and contempt prejudiced us.
Reminiscences of the former war were revived by
stories of abuse of the white flag, explosive
bullets, rigorous commandeering, and wilful
damage to the property of British colonists.
Later, much was said of the treatment of
prisoners and wounded in the hands of the Boers.
Under the influence of these reports the opinion
began to be formed tnat, brave as the Boers were
and skilful as soldiers, they were hardly a civilised
foe, or else they were fighting not as warriors but as
fanatics, as in a Moslem holy war upon the infidel.
By degrees that notion is being disproved. Our
wounded upon release acknowledge the humanity
of their captors, their readiness to relieve suffer-
ing by all the aid at their command, and their dis-
position to make the yoke as light as possible.
Our men in South Africa even fraternise to some
extent with the enemy in the Sunday* or other
truces of the campaign, and they find these stout
and ready enemies very good fellows apart from
the bitter business that brings them together. So
it was in the Napoleonic wars and in the Crimea.
While people at home abhorred the very name
of Frenchman or Russian, the troops in the
field struck up a rough fellowship with the
foe and learned each other's human side. The
truth about the Boers may be that some of
the abuses which have been declared arise
from their independent style of warfare. The
commandoes, and even the individual burghers,
fight much ‘for their own hand,’ and employ the
arms and ammunition which they are most
familiar with. In such circumstances there is
more scope for the misbehaviour of a few despera-
does or fanatics than in our more disciplined
ranks. Be it as it may, the legend of the Boer as
a sour, harsh, relentless foe is disappearing, and
we shall soon do justice to the better personal
qualities of our enemy, as well as to his splendid
courage and constancy in a desperate cause.”—
Sydney Morning Herald sub-leader , 11th May,
1900.
I»ex and Lazarus.
If a common garden trades-union were to suggest
that an apprentice to a carpenter, who after ordi-
nary working hours or after the conclusion of his
apprenticeship, does a little blacksmithing to fill
in time or earn an honest penny, should be forever
debarred from becoming a member of the carpen-
ters’ union or from exercising his trade except as a
“scab” subject to imprisonment, what a howl of
horror about the heinous breach of the principle
of freedom of contract, and of the law of compe-
tition would be raised, especially by lawyers !
But when the Legal Trades Union, backed up by
obsolete rules of court and a domestic forum of
judges sitting in semi-secrecy for such purposes
only, does the same thing to an apprentice to that
particular trade, it is quite another story. At
least, that is, up to the present, the experience of
young Lazarus, a would-be initiate into the Vic.
legal priesthood. Lazarus, it seems, has served
five years under articles and passing examinations
to fulfil tne conditions .of enrolment as a
barrister and solicitor of this .honorable court.
When he had fimsned his course, but before form-
ally applying to be admitted, he undertook some
private work for a period of months. He
then applied in the ordinary way for admission,
but the body of persons, future rivals of his in his


Erofession, who had the duty of looking through
is application-papers, found that one of these
documents (a sort of certificate of character)
stated that the person signing it had known the
applicant for (say) six years, and that during that
time he had not been engaged in any trade or pro-
fession, “except for the period of 3J months.’
This fearful exception damned Lazarus from the
table of Lex. The horrified “ Board ” rejected his
application. Lazarus appealed to the Judges of
the court, who, still more horrified, pronounced
the “ Get thee behind me, Satan ! ” And as their
decision is final, or alleged to be so in
so many word, Lex would appear to have
got even with the sacrilegious Lazarus.
The effect of such absurd restrictions upon the
poor will be undoubtedly to make the legal pro-
fession an even closer preserve for the rich than,
by reason of the heavy premiums payable for
articles, it is at present. All close corporations
are undesirable ; but close corporations entrusted
with the interpretation of the law, and confined
entirely to the rich, are odiously so. And no
reason on earth, save that of dog-in-the-manger
exclusiveness, can be assigned for a rule which
prevents a poor man, after having gone through
nis apprenticeship, from earning the high fee he
has to pay for his formal entry into mastership.
On the whole the incident shows what pranks
before high heaven can be played by trades
unionism, provided only it is a trades unionism of
the “classes,” and that it can claim the judges of
the land as its committee of management; and it
also shows what poison-stings lurk in our law, and
what throw-backs to the worst days of feudalism
luxuriate in its musty purlieus.
—♦
Workmen’s Compensation Legislation.
A democratic lawyer to The Bulletin :
The fact that the Australian provinces are so backward
in adopting with improvements the English Workmen’s
Compensation Act is by no means a good testimonial to
their alleged progress in social legislation, and is, in fact,
attracting attention in England. In a recent paper on the
subject, Rueog, a great English authority on the law of
employer and workman, says : “ Some such system as
that upon which our Workmen’s Compensation Act is
founded is well nigh common to the whole of the Con-
tinent. Germany, Austria, Norway, France, and, I be-
lieve, Switzerland, have it already in full operation. Italy
and even Russia have like schemes in contemplation. On
the other hand, it does not appear to have been yet
accepted by our colonies or by the United States.” Aus-
tralian attempts are mainly in the chrysalis stage, and
will probably result in the distant future in a feeble
imitation of the Chamberlain scheme with all its defects
and omissions. The ideal to be aimed at is, of course,
the absolute insurance by the employer against
accidents to his workmen in every form of
employment from chemical - factory hands to farm-
laborers, and from domestics to clerks, lead-workers,
sailors, and even soldiers. But failing that, great good
can be achieved by a reasonable extension of the employ-
ments specified in Chamberlain’s Act, and by freeing that
Act from its numerous technical defects. For the latter
purpose, every lawyer M.P. should procure, or should be
supplied with at public expense, a copy of the paper read
by Riiego above alluded to and published in several con-
secutive numbers of the English Law Times of this year.
This paper is the most comprehensive and searching
criticisim of the Chamberlain Act up to date, and for
Australian legislatures to copy Chamberlain’s Act with-
out the alterations suggested as necessary by a perusal of
Itu ego’s paper, would be simply flying in the face of ex-
perience and the best expert opinion.
<♦
When the Drunk is over.
The attitude of the Labor Party throughout Aus-
tralia re Transvaal War is not a highly edifying
one. The great mass of the Labor members know
and feel that the war is scandalously unjust ;
many of them make no bones about saying
so—in private—to their intimates ; but very few
of them have had the courage to openly say so
either on the platform or in Parliament. Pru-
dential motives undoubtedly underlie this new-
born modesty, but it is really most doubtful if the
policy, even from the standpoint of political ad-
vantage, be a sound one in the long run. . . . The
Jingo drunk soon passes ; the nation is even now
putting down its weary head on the pillow to sleep
off the intoxication; and the morrow (when the
grog-score is to be paid) will undoubtedly bring
second thoughts that may easily cause the men
who had the courage to protest against the war-
fever to be regarded in a very different light. The
final conclusions of the people ( vox populi ) are
nearly always right; the first impulses of the people
are nearly always wrong. The average English-
men of to-day bitterly condemns the American
war; the average Englishman of a little over a
century ago just as strongly approved of it.
Within twelve months of to-day the Australias
will regard the sending of the Contingents very
differently ; within 12 months the men who
opposed the mad business will be respected for
their pluck by many of those who most bitterly
opposed them. Had the various Australian Labor
Parties stood together and given a solid vote in
their respective Assemblies against our meddling
in this sordid crime, the chances are the next elec-
tions yvould have found them as strong as ever
numerically, and infinitely stronger from the
standpoint of morale and consistency. But no!
They tripped and they trembled; they went to
send-off banquets and made glowing speeches
glorifying the butcheries perpetrated by the
legionaries of Beit, Eckstein and Co. ; and so
gained the contempt of every true lover of free-
dom in the community. Many of them will yet
have reason for bitter repentance. It is a remark-
able fact that political ruin and extinction almost
immediately overtook every Queensland Democrat
who stumbled and fell over the disgraceful Q.N.B.
business. The afterthought of the electors con-
demned the dodgers and the dodgers died. And
the after-thought of the sober Australian will
operate in a similar manner j will make him
despise those who truckled to his drunken folly.
Sr
The “Apprentice System ” in Africa
and Elsewhere.
More of that furiously Jingo paper, Canterbury
(M.L.) Times
The Transvaal never observed the conditions. Its
existence as a State has been one continuous effort to
avoid its engagements with Britain. The Sand River Con-
vention, to which it owed its being, forbade slavery.
The Transvaal practised slavery, but called the slaves
apprentices.
Apart from the fact that the Transvaal was a free
State for many years before the Sand River Con-
vention, which was merely the first treaty entered
into between it and Britain (it doesn’t necessarily
follow that a country has no existence until it
makes a treaty with Britain], the complaint about
the “apprentice system" is interesting. That
utterly sinful and shameful and objectionable
system certainly does exist in the Transvaal, but
seeing that it also exists in at least two British
States, and the British Government winks at it,
no Briton has a right to put on any very lofty
airs on the subject. In Rhodesia the nigger
is “ supplied ” by his chief, who gets so
much money for him, or pays his taxes with
him, and, as the ‘ ‘ supplied ” nigger has no
more voice whatever in the matter, he is a slave
for the_ time being. And in Westralia the
apprentice system is in full blast. In Westralia,
the nigger, male or female, can be apprentieea
(“indentured”) for a term of years, or various
terms in succession, simply by drawing up the
necessary agreement binding the said nigger, and
getting a magistrate, J.P., or policeman to wit-
ness that the colored person entered into the con-
tract quite willingly, and under no compulsion
whatever. This is a beautifully convenient
arrangement, especially in the outlying districts
where every squatter is a J.P., so that when one
captures a few niggers the other can certify that
they entered willingly into a bond—rushed at it,
in fact —to serve him for a long time without any
wages. And even the pretence of voluntary ser-
vice is hardly kept up —as witness a recently-re-
ported case where a J.P., on a more than usually
intelligent aborigine refusing to be apprenticed,
sentenced him to six monthk gaol as a vagrant,
with the intimation that the sentence would not be
enforced provided he consented to become a slave.
As to how they are treated—some 12 years ago a
wandering person in these parts wrote an account
of flogging, starvation, murder, and all-manner of
ill-usage, which made the hair of Australasia in
general stand up for a moment—and then lie down
again in forgetfulness. And how long is it since
two W. A. squatters were tried, convicted, and not
hanged, for flogging sundry nigger apprentices
(women and children included) within an inch of
their lives, and some actually to death ? The
apprentice system is, in one sense, worse than
ordinary slavery. The old slave-owner maintained
his serfs when they were too young to work ;
under the apprentice system, the nigger shifts for
himself when he is young, and is turned out to
scramble for his own precarious’possum when he
is old. And this slavery exists under the direct
sanction of the British Government, which had
the right to veto the Bill under which the infamous
device was first established—and didn’t. And yet
the apprentice system in the Transvaal is too
shocking for words, and no Briton can contem-
plate it, in the Transvaal, without a shudder.
For goodness sake let us do our own local shudder
first.
«
Labor Agencies.
When politics are slack, The Bxtx.letin likes to
rise now and then and speak a little curse about
the Labor Agency swindle, and as it is a long time
since the last curse on that over-present iniquity
this appears to be as good a time to curse as any
other. N. 8. W. is aland of quacks, where most things
are allowed to slide, lest by interference some v
ruffian’s freedom to injure his neighbors maybe
curtailed, and the glorious fabric of Liberty be
thereby brought to the ground. So any man who
can get an office and a counter can be a bank or a
life insurance society, and the man who has lost
his billet driving a ’bus can turn doctor or dentist,
and the insolvent shopkeeper can be a kidney-
specialist, and almost anyone can delude the
public by protending to be almost anything, pro-
vided he doesn’t pretend to be a lawyer. If he
does that he is touching the sacred six-and-eight-
ponny Ark of the Covenant, and things fall on
him ; for Parliament is full of lawyers, and their
yearning to save their own branch of business from
the intrusion of boguspracti tioners, when there isn’t
enough Cs. Sd.togo roundthe real ones, ispathetio. In
Sydney, as the biggest city in the land of Let-it-Slide,
the bogus labor-agent flourishes. He needn’t be a
man of good character. He can charge any fee
he likes, and in these times of terrible competition
for work he can get large fees (to be deducted
from future wages) for a very small job. Very
often the Sydney labor-agent simply copies on to
his board “ wanted ” advts. from the morning
papers, minus the address at which application is
to be made, and the applicant, or the 24 appli-
cants, must register themselves with him and pay
a fee before being sent to the prospective em-
ployer. Though the billet is filled before the
agent’s customer gets there, and the employer
gave that special agent no authority to send appli-
cants or take fees, and his tacit pretence that the
billet was put specially in his hands is all a lie,
there is no redress unless the hard-up applicant
likes to spend money and weeks of time on a
prosecution. Also, there is no legal remedy
against the agent who divides the fee with the
employer. The agent’s fee is, say, two
weeks’ wages, and when the two weeks are
up, and the dead horse of the fee has
been worked off, the employer sacks his new hand
as being “unsuitable,” and gets another on the
same terms, whereby the agent has a steady job
and the employer gets men at half-wages. This is
a great and flourishing swindle, and the law takes
no cognisance of it. Nor does it take any special
notice of the worst fraud of all, whereby the
agent gets several pounds as a fee in return for .
providing a good but wholly imaginary situation
at, say, Bourke, whither the fortunate applicant
proceeds at his own expense—the object in send-
ing him so far off being that he may exhaust bis
funds and so be unable to get back and maul the
man in the office. If labor-agents were licensed
and it was heavily punishable for any unlicensed
person to go into the trade, and the licensing law
was enforced (which comparatively few N.S.W.
laws are), a reasonably-efficient remedy would be
Erovided. The fraudulent person would simply
e thrown out of the business, and by much
throwing out it would gradually become clean.
As things are the agent usually makes £lOO by
fraud before Justice falls with great weight upon
him and fines him £5, so even when Justice does
find him very little good results. Victoria now
requires labor agents to be registered, fixes the
scale of fees payable, and fires the swindling
practitioner out—rather gradually, it is true, but
still he gets out in the long run. Some American
states do even better : in New York, for example,
not only are fees fixed by law, and agents required
to be of good character, but the agent who takes a
fee from an applicant must find him genuine work
inside one month or return the money in full. This
is so simple and effective a way of meeting the
difficulty that it may strike even the Australian
politician some day.
Breach of Promise.
It is easy to discover absurdities in Breach of
Promise verdicts, but an absurdity equal to any
of them is to argue that therefore the Breach of
Promise Law shall be wiped off the books. An
engagement to marry is, and should be, a solemn
engagement. If one party desires to retire that
party should reasonably compensate the other, if
the other demand compensation. This applies to
the woman as well as the man. But it is obvious
that a woman is generally more damaged than a
man by such a breach. The man whom a woman
rejects after engagement does not necessarily de-
teriorate in the matrimonial market. The woman,
after being tied up under such an engagement
generally has to seclude herself from matrimonial
pursuits until at least the memory of her lately
engaged’s embraces has died down. She has not
alone been caged by her lover’s promise while
his promise lasted, but has actually been
quarantined by him when he broke it.
Further, the case has this business-like, though
grossly-material, aspect. While a woman’s wage
is so much less than a man’s, marriage is necessarily
to a woman a means of support. The woman who
is jilted loses, in a business sense, her promised
home and clothes and victuals. The man who is
jilted only loses, in a business sense, the expen-
sive privilege of supplying a woman with home
and clothes and victuals. Therefore, while the
woman has a good business claim for damages, it
is doubtful if the man has any. If Smith and
Jones make a contract whereby Smith agrees to
pay Jones £lOOO, and Smith breaks the contract
and doesn’t pay, Jones has a right to sue Smith
for breach of agreement. But if Jones refuses to
take the £lOOO, has Smith a right to sue him on
the ground that Jones didn’t fulfil his end of the
agreement ? Of course, either party has a right
to ask compensation for disappointment and loss
of married happiness. But the Court doesn’t
know that he or she might not have been much
more disappointed if the marriage had happened,
and it has no right to take any account of the
prospective married happiness. There is no proof
that there would have been any.
♦
Whoop !
“Dingo” implores this country to keep its tail
up, and cultivate a judicious enlargement of the
head and a good, loud cock-a-doodle-doo :
A bitter wail has arisen from the Australian Nationalist.
He has watched the departure of the various contingents
sick at heart. He has viewed the wild hysteria of the
public with contemptuous pity. He has raged at the
vapourings of the public man. He has visions of the
Australia of the future, and he firmly believes that the
madness of the moment has swept away all that has been
labored for by the Nationalists of the last 20 years. The
Australian Nationalist is nearly as one-eyed as the Jingo
public man. Busy in his throes, he has not yet had time
to discover that the present war is pregnant with
more possibilities of nationalism than all the talk of the
past two decades. The success of a nation depends, like
the success of the individual, more on bluff and bluster
than on merit; and, until the past few weeks, Australia
has made the huge mistake of trying to live on merit
alone. What merit it had was not even recognised by its
own people. The Bulletin, the organ of nationalism,
sat on all attempts at Australian braggadocio, barracked
one-sidedly and shamelessly for the English cricketers
during every tour, and never failed to uphold the Aus-
tralian as the physical, mental, and moral inferior of the
British. The result has been that all Australia has had
an utter contempt for such of its own products as had
not received the hall-mark of English approbation. Aus-
tralian art and literature were things despised inside their
own country, and the more idea of an Australian being a
soldier was regarded as a joke. It has taken the veldt of
Kensburg to change all that. The Australian who took
time to consider would have remembered that the great
test of war is courage and coolness in times of danger,
and that the records of Australian wrecks, mine-disasters,
floods and bush-fires had supplied enough of t hese for a
couple of bushels of Victoria-crosses. But ho didn’t take
time to consider. The nationalist burst into wild de-
nunciation of the troops as comic opera warriors, and
even the loyal Naicest did not regard them seriously.
Their acceptance was deemed merely complimentary, and
those loudest in their patriotism trusted in their own
minds that the first contingents Would be kept blacking
officers' boots or doing something which wouldn’t Bhow
their hopeless incompetence. What has been the result?
The undrilled Australian youth has shown himself not
only the equal but the superior of English Tommy Atkins.
The compliments of the British generals go for nothing,
for they may have been dictated by motives of policy, but
money talks. A cheque is always the sincerest form of
criticism, and when the British Government is wiling to
pay Australians ss. a day when they can get any number
of men at Is., there is only one inference. Making all
allowance for the unusual circumstances of the present
war, the fact has been established that the Australian is a
first-class fighting man. He was not previously
aware of this fact, and with the discovery he has
suddenly awakened to a sense of his own importance.
To base the value of a nation on its soldiering qualities
is, of course, the height of foolishness, but the Austra-
lian is as foolish as the rest, and, in his illimitable
modesty, aided by the English-born residents and the
patriotic Bulletin, he has hitherto deemed himself of
inferior clay. To-day the Australian knows he is a
soldier, and, like one of her own warriors, Australia itself
is beginning to throw out its chest and strut among the
nations of the earth. The strong and self-reliant Aus-
tralia of the next few years will stand no nonsense from
anybody—not even from England. The spirit of Briticism
abhorrent to the nationalist has no real existence in the
ranks of the troops or the hearts of the people. It is merely
the hysteria of the hour which leads to all great movements,
good or bad. The men of the Contingent went to fight
for England just as much as the Greek athlete raced for
the actual laurel sprig. And it was his troubles what
tree the sprig was picked from. In connection with the
present trouble in South Africa there was a very big pro-
portion of Boer sympathisers until the actual opening of
hostilities sent them over to the British side. A discovery
that the Australian can make as good a soldier as the best
of them has caused Australia’s head to swell—to its
proper size—and without a slightly-swollen head national
sentiment is impossible. The war has also indicated the
physical perfection of the Australian. How often did the
wise men of the Australian papers tell the diffident and
credulous Cornstalk that he was not as good a man as his
father ? How often did a fat, bloated and more or less
blasted person arise in a local legislature and compare
his own shapeless build and fatted deportment with those
of the Australian youth to his own great advantage ? And
yet none of them were stoned or rotten-egged or hooted
’ as they would have been in any other country in the
world. It is years since England has produced a sculler
that could keep the rank-and-file of Australian second-
raters warm. It is even longer since she could send a
pug into the ring capable of holding his own with
the average beer-fighter of this country, and when-
ever casual Australians have arrived at English uni-
versities they have at once jumped into the places
of the foremost athletes. England is a worn-out,
effete and befogged country, whose every grain of dust
has been decomposed human being, and whose City resi-
dents live huddled together, with little to eat and less to
breathe. The Australian, descended from the very pick
of England, is born and bred in the sunshine. His eight
big towns are all coastal ones, and are swept on one side
by the eucalyptic breezes of the bush and on the other by
the fresh sea airs, and are small enough to give everybody
room to move. His climate is such that he uses his house
to eat and sleep in, but little else, and in encouraging him
to live in the open air and breathe oxygen it also en-
courages him to develop his muscles, whereby the
uniforms of the British soldier could not meet round his
chest when he got to Capetown.
Dr. Ashburton Thompson, President of Sydney
Health Board, says about certain slum proper-
ties :
“ Walls one-brick thick saturated with damp, floors
resting on the earth, and so ricketty that you could put
your shoulder through them, and owned, I regret to say,
by a well-known medical man. And the local council,
instead of bringing the owner before a magistrate, has
contented itself with talking about the filthy habits of the
Assyrians, and writing letters to the board with regard to
the alleged over-crowding.
There is a municipal yell in N.S.W. for “more
power.” What for—more effectually to screen the
slum-landlord ? When the landlord has been de-
prived of his monopoly of municipal voting-power,
and aldermen cease to be his obsequious delegates,
it will be time enough to think about giving
municipalities “ more power.” And that won’t be
till property-qualification and plural voting is
abolished.
♦
If we are to credit Gibbon that St. George was a
Cappadocian purveyor of embalmed pig, and
possibly saddles, to the Syrian and Alexandrian
contingents of the Roman army, it is legitimate
to infer that the legend of his killing the dragon is
an esoteric rendering of his success at repealing an
Adulteration Act of the period If so, there is a
great need for dragons in Australia, and we don’t
know that bas-reliefs of dragons killing St.
Georges wouldn’t appropriately and suggestively
grace every Senate House in Australia. Beer,
pickles, sausages, jam, wine, meat, bread, groceries
of every feather, milk of every aqueousness, fruit
of every flavor from paris-green to tobacco-juice—
even white oyster soup—and all adulterated.
Faugh ! “ slinks,” salicylic acid, grains of para-
dise, anthracised beef, cancerous pig, alum
(so much so that bakers may be dubbed
the almuni of industry), poisoned lollies
for our babies, rotten tinned-fisn for South Sea
Islanders, Canton tea - shop floor sweepings
mineralised into saleability, typhoid - sprinkled
oysters—such are of the stock in trade of the St.
Georges of the modern popular armies. They
must be got rid of, these Cappadocians, even if we
have to canonise them afterwards. But they
never will be got rid of unless all parties combine
to have a sweeping and comprehensive Adultera-
tion Act placed on every Australian statute-book.
This is no party question; it affects all consumers.
It’s no good pottering now at wine, now at meat,
now at milk. All deleterious adulteration is
criminal, and should be legislatively declared so :
all adulteration is cheating and should be rated
accordingly. Wanted, several dragons warranted
to extirpate the myriad St. Georges who are
infesting the community.
Police-Superintendent Brennan’s report to In-
spector-General Fosbery on the present N.S.W.
method of killing mongrel and mangy stray dogs
is a self-complacent and highly policeman-like
document. A raid was made in Sydney during a
few days lately, and of 2026 dogs captured 1761
were destroyed “on the same principle as cattle
are at the abbatoirs—the force is applied at the
base of the skull, known as the foramen ma</num.”
Had the report stopped here the community could
have gone on demanding the long-promised lethal-
chamber, in the belief thepoliceauthoritiescon-
curred ; but the report remarks that “ the various
experiments made for killing dogs inapainless man-
ner by scientific processes, by aspl ivxiation and other
chemical agencies have failed, besides being ex-
pensive and, finally, “This method (the abat-
toir one) is the least painful and cruel that can be
devised.” If the police be allowed their way,
that report will kill and bury the present
quickened sense of horror at a needless barbarity.
The abattoir system passes for cattle, as those are
food animals ; were they not food animals the
method of killing would be as monstrous in their
oase as in that of stray dogs. But with the
proved efficiency of lethal chambers in European
and American countries boforo the public the
alleged fact of thoir failure in Sydney merely tes-
tifies to the blundering bungling of those who
managed the local experiments. Mr. Brennan’s
assurance that breaking the base of a dog’s skull
with an iron bar “is the least painful and cruel
method that can bo devised ” reveals the self-
confidence of the solemn bobby frowningly front-
ing the science and humanity of the age.
G. H. Reid only sleeps when he is snug in the
warmth of Olfioe. The cold shados of Opposition
keep him awake and waspish. He tells tne press
freely what he means to do with Premier Lyne
when he gets a show—-complains that Lyne will
not meet Parliament and give feint a show. The
very sudden Darling Harbor wharf resumptions
are illegal, he says. [lf they aren’t, they ought to
be.— Ed. B.] And, between the date of proclama-
tion of resumption and the date of actual resump-
tion and payment, says G.R., the community
pays the wharf-owners six per cent, interest on
valuations. As Government has bitten off
many more wh'arves than it can chew for years,
that is an item calculated to make the community
sit up and say things. Further, grumbles the
gent, with the glass-eye, why doesn’t Govt, pub-
lish details of Chamberlain’s demands for altera-
tion in the Commonwealth Bill ? Why keep the
country in the dark on such a vital matter?
Besides . . . andG. Reid produced 13 smaller rods
from the pickle cask—one for every Minister, and
some over for Ministerial hangers-on. But Premier
Lyne still smiles—for has he not squared the
Labor Party? Alas for the days of “dear
George’s ” confidential dominoes !
♦ — :
The Lyne Govt, promises to reform the rotten
Sydney Corporation by extending the franchise
and making the Mayor elective. That is better
than the nominee-Commission idea, which held
suggestions of job ; but why not adopt the
Greater Sydney scheme while the Govt, is about
it ? Sydney can’t afford to abandon the rate-
payers’ right of election in favor of Ministerial
nominees, because light filters into the misdoings
of an elective body sooner or later, while into
those of a nominee body it always filters later—
and the devil you do know is better than
the devil you don’t. But the newspaper
clamour for the abolition of Sydney Corporation
has paved the way for the reception of the Greater
Sydney idea; and the advocates of that idea
should set to work to urge it more vigorously than
ever—with the English County Councils for model
and example. The great essential in all electoral
reform is to widen your franchise —increase your
electorate. Small electorates breed small repre-
sentatives ; big electorates may not breed big
representatives, but they breed bigger. The man
with 10,000 voters at his back has less to fear from
“ influence ” than the man with only 1000. Hole-
and-corner methods live in a hole-and-corner con-
stituency : they die in space and sunlight.
♦
Sydney Telegraph, which runs the N.S.W. Govt,
just at present—and is posted free all over N.S.
Wales at the expense of the tax-payers—has been
bubbling over with new ideas lately, and the pro-
cess of converting the Telegraph’s new ideas
into active N.S.W. politics is being watched with
interest by people who know the Tele-
graph’s board of directors. One plague
morning lately the Telegraph aroused its
readers with the conviction that a British
hygienic expert by the name of Simpson must be
imported at once, at a fee of £5OOO or so, to con-
duct the fight against the filthy Sydney property-
owner and the bubonic Sydney rat. Somebody,
alleged to be a person of vast wisdom—name
not given, so you took the Telegraph s word
for it —had alleged that only Simpson could
save us in this unparalleled crisis. Next
day and the day after letters dropped in
from “Banker” and “Citizen” and “Public
Opinion ” and similar gentry —names not given—
urging the community to take Simpson for that
plague feeling. Then a Telegraph writer
—name not given—was bidden to point out that
Simpson’s claims to come to Sydney immediately,
and do such vague things unspecified as might
seem good to him, were claims which no city
could afford to disregard. Then, very suddenly,
Simpson dropped out of the Telegraph alto-
gether. Why? Has Govt, bitten sub rosa —or
wouldn’t Govt, bite? What has become of Simp-
son ? The Telegraph readers call with one vast
voice for answer.
+
The early effort to convince Australia that
America’s sympathy was with England in the
Transvaal war has fallen by the weight of its own
untruth; and Presidency-candidate Bryan says
that if the Democratic party comes into power it
will give the Boer cause moral support. Practi-
cally the only men who support England are the
Republican administrators—for diplomatic and
social reasons. From a hundred sources comes
confirmation that a vast majority of citizens of the


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position as at January 1, 1900.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £58,373,185
Increase in Assets daring 1899 ... ... ... 4,546,248
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 12,711,975
Increase in Surplus during 1899 ... ... ... ... 793,123
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... ... ... ... 219,670,088
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1899 ... ... 14,012,322
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM MoMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.:
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.; F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M.D.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARCY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
The Clyde Engineering Cog. [td.
MANUFACTURERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF HORIZONTAL AND TRACTION
For WINDING, HAULAGE, &c., from 2-h.p. to 1000-h.p.
FJ.. ■«
American Republic are heart and soul with the
Republics of the S’Africa. It is cabled that only
one member of the New York Municipal Council
dissented from the proposal to officially welcome
the Boer peace delegates, and the burden of his
song was that to show sympathy with the visitors
would be to exhibit ingratitude to England for her
display of friendship towards the U.S. in the
Yanko-Spanish war. As a cold-blooded matter of
business Uncle Sam does owe England a good
turn. She stood by while the Yankees rounded
off their tobacco monopoly by stealing the Philip-
pines from Spain; as a fair deal it is now for
Uncle Sam to stand by while England rounds off
her practical gold-monopoly by stealing the glit-
tering Rand.
♦
Rev. lan Maclaren, the famous Scottish author-
preacher, is not afraid to speak the truth about
the war:—
From the highest unto the lowest, priests and people
together, we have been growing mercenary, worldly,
materialistic. Still we grew richer and richer and one
could not tell how we were to be punished, for with our
riches we built iron ships and boasted of our security.
Is anyone so blind now as not to see how our greed of
wealth has brought us into our present state and has led
to the death of so many brave men ? . . . The immediate
occasion of this disastrous war was the desire of a pastoral
people to retain the control of their own country and the
determination of a handful of mine-owning millionaires
to seize it for their own ends. They were not them-
selves brave enough to fight and now they are not
generous enough to being as mean now as they
were cowardly before, but they were cunning enough to
induce a gang of criminal adventurers to make that Raid
for which we are all now paying, in sorrow or in blood,
and, in the end, to set by the ears our great Empire and
this little nation of country folk. Who had been so
eager for war as the baser herd of gamblers on our Stock
Exchange, who are the disgrace of an honorable business ?
Who were so ready yesterday to sing patriotic songs and
drink patriotic toasts, and who but they have had the
heart to play upon the feelings of the nation in their most
sensitive hours by lying rumors of victory, so that
whether we laugh or weep those brigands may reap their
ill-gotten gain, won at the expense of men’s blood and the
nation’s regret ?
Which is just what everyone thinks in his own
heart, but how many have the nerve to say so ?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s . “ Oliver Twist.”
Royal “ The Tyranny of Tears.”
Lyceum “ The Shamrock and the Rose.”
Tivoli Rickards' Co.
Criteri0n.............. “ East Lynne.”
Palace Victor—illusionist.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ What Happened to Jones.”
Her Majesty’s (late Alexandra).... “ Pinafore.”
Theatre Royal “The Ladder of Life."
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Elizabeth, in her character as the Great
Flossie of English History, gave place to “ School
for Scandal” at Her Majesty’s last Saturday.
This scholastically-entitled drama belongs to the
class wherein the characters are named according
to their qualities, our ancestors evidently being
unable to comprehend that Lady Sneerwell would
sneer unless her cognomen in the programme
acquainted them with the fact, and allowed it to
soak well into their 18th - century intelligences
before the curtain rose. The drama is really two
plays badly joined together, and the last act was
written while thefirst four were being rehearsed, the
manager having locked Sheridan in his room and
deprived him of his daily beer till the play was
written. Nowadays it is the playwright who locks
the manager in a room till the play is read. At
Her Majesty’s the drama was given with most of
its 18th century spiciness, said spiciness being
bluer in language but less blue in ideas than the
modern variety. A glossary of old-time slang
should be handed round the gallery, which, other-
wise, cannot be expected to identify the old-time
macaroni with the modern mash. Also, the top-
lofters choke perplexedly over their peanuts while
wondering why the frugal Sir Peter should object
to his wife driving a pair of white cats. Cats are
always cheap.
* * * *
Nance O’Neil is too large for her part,
and she gambols in a serious elephantine manner,
the shadow of Elizabeth being still heavy on her
soul. Her dressing might be more tasteful, and
she loses her reputation in an unemotional lop-
sided hat, large enough to render the famous
screen quite unnecessary. Kingston is much more
convincing wearing the white silk of a gay
Lothario than in the tweed garments of a modern
Angel Clare. Becks’ Sir Peter Teazle howls like
a lost dog when chaffed about his wife’s goings-on.
Otherwise there is nothing original in his imper-
sonation. The present scribe is not sure if even
the howl is original, or whether it was the regular
custom of high-class gentlemen of the 18th century
to make observations in dog language when their
wives were found behind screens in bachelor
apartments. Nance was billed to fight against
her avoirdupois and struggle manfully with her
too-majestic figure in the cause of Frolicsomeness
for six nights only, after which she will figure in
“ Oliver Twist.” It is not true that she is to play
the small, good boy, who gives his name to the
production.
* Sf * *
The Lyceum still continues with its tale of
the Soldier and the Man who is neither one thing
nor the other. He isn’t a soldier because he dis-
obeys orders, and he isn’t much of a man because
whenever trouble comes to him he forthwith takes
to drink, and can only be yanked back to the
dingy kitchen and domestic tea-cup by his wife
threatening to do just as he does, whereupon he
sees how awful two of him would be in this dark
and dreary world. Moreover, when he is saved
from the executionary bullet by the faithful
friend-fellow-soldier, he never takes the slightest
notice of it but tells his pa that nobody was good
to him. Probably he knew the value of his own
life best.
• * • •
“ East Lynne,” the wettest play on re-
cord, was given in its newest and dampest at the
Criterion on Saturday night. According to Dam-
pier, it is the tale of a genial, clumsy idiot named
Carlyle, who hadn’t the sense to tell his wife that
he only flew about with the other girl as a lawyer
and for the purpose of saving her brother’s neck.
The wife is a plump lady who is somewhat too pre-
cipitate, and when the villain tells her that he can
see Hubby hugging the other girl, believes it in-
stead of having a peep herself—which is very un-
womanly. It is a tale belonging to the great
Moral Ages of this century, as is seen by the vir-
tuous conduct of the genial idiot aforesaid
when he allows his divorced wife to die
standing up without any assistance, and will
not contaminate himself by touching her till she
is practically dead, when he holds her up with
great gentleness. Perhaps this trait was much
admired when “East Lynne” was first staged,
long ago. The curious point about the Lady
Isabel drama is that whereas, now-a-days, her
return to her husband is looked upon as a beauti-
ful and pathetic incident much to be commended —
by the fair authoress and old-time readers it was
regarded as a thoughtless, if not a rather ill-
bred proceeding which reflected somewhat dis-
creditably on Lady Isabel’s education in the rules
governing the Naicest.
• * * »
The long, difficult, moist part of Lady
Isabel is laid on the ample shoulders of Miss Lily
Dampier, and the part of her pleasant-mannered,
crass husband is supported by Alfred Rolfe, while
villain Levison stalks abroad in the person of
Benson North. Miss Dampier’s voice strongly
resembles Papa’s, who, by the way, stands out
of the caste altogether. Miss Lily Dampier is
somewhat stout and the average man can quite
understand the lawyer being vastly interested in
sad, simple, sister Rose who is so anxious to
save her brother’s neck. For in this play Rose
Dampier speaks with her own natural voice, which
is a great deal more pleasant than the stage article
she used to wear in “ Robbery under Arms,” while
Lady Isabel uses her special dying voice all the
time, except when she rises to real tragedy at the
death of her little boy. In that death-scene Miss Lily
is hideously real, and her utter abandon, her mad
desire to be recognised and called mother by her
own child is terrific—and then the sudden chilled
silenceasthe consciousness that he is dead suddenly
smites her is heart-breaking. Miss Clements and
several other people do good work, and at the
finish each person is observed to rise up softly and
instinctively reach for a spectral towel as the
vision of angels and baby boy is wafted aloft out
of sight.
* * * Mf
“ The Tyranny of Tears,” Haddon Cham-
bers’ new drama now making its debut at the
Royal, purports to be a lecture to women on the
futility of trying to over-rule their husbands by
Niobe methods; but as this particular tear-
distiller generally does manage to get her own way
by this process, the moral seems, somehow, to have
t?cme astray. Likewis 3 there is a calm sensible
girl in the drama who never receives anything
from life till she also starts a little emotionalism,
whereupon she gets a proposal and another man
to be a brother to her, and various other incentives
towards future indulgence in the masterful tear.
There is a further valuable moral, inasmuch as
when the tear-spiller and his wife separate by
mutual dissent, she comes up next day spick and
span from hat to heel, whereas he meanwhile has
taken to late hours and champagne for breakfast,
and tan boots and other dissipations of a like
nature. Altogether the drama is one of Brough’s
best and most charming ; and as a tear-shedder of
the first water Miss Grace Noble, who acts its
showery heroine, cannot be beaten.
* * * *
Mrs. Brough acts with her usual versa-
tility as the sensible, snappy girl who is one of the
usual large, poverty-stricken, many-daughtered
family that used the inked string in their shoes
and handed down the family frock from generation
to generation and wore the ancestral boots by
turns. The doubt as to whether the kiss she gave
the married man’s photo, was motherly or not will
probably be the psychological question of the day.
Miss Grace Noble, as before hinted, did well as
the womanly woman who rather goes back on her
womanliness by listening to reason in the last act,
and celebrating her weep on hubby’s kindly chest.
For the rest —Dartrey evinced his usual genius for
acting the polished and disreputable rake, and
none of the other members call for a single curse
from the public in general or this well-satisfied
scribe in particular.
* * *
The only new features at the Tivoli are
comedian Billy Maclain and songstress Madame
Cordelia, both late of the M‘Adoo co., which has
mostly gone back to the Swanee River, or there-
abouts. The worthy Billy’s larynx is supposed to
be fitted with a special squeaker, for the dark
comedian can make more remarkable noises than
any other mummer this writer ever struck. The
Martinettis now indulge in “A Duel in the
Snow,” the setting of which is very effective, and
if the Martinettis didn’t waste so much time
bashing each other on the various physiognomical
points and were content with stabbing the worthy
Dr. where the selectors brand calves, it would
be much more amusing. Sixteen hours of bashing
on the proboscis and on the point gets wearisome.
However, there is one thing Paul Martinetti can
do thoroughly, and that is—Die. It is worth
going a long way to see the white-faced gentleman
give up the ghost, and if ever this scribbler should
abjure the tynewriter for the sock and buskin he
will hunt up Paul Martinetti to learn how to die
artistically.
Melbourne Alexandra, now deceased, was
a cold inhospitable place where the ghost rarely
walked with vigor. It had many bad seasons and
few good ones during the 14 years, or so, that
have seen its rent decline since Miss Julian Syd-
ney and Captain de Burgh tried their luck in the
new building. The present writer will never for-
get the first night of the Aleck. There was a
powerful odour of paint and a strong foreboding
of failure in the crowded auditorium that night.
Miss Sydney spoke a prologue, and referred to
herself as a weak woman who was going to do her
best, &c., but the lady couldn’t have been as weak
as the three-act farce she was introducing to
notice. Robert Inman, Oily Deering, and young
Poulton were important items in the farce.
Their ill-fated efforts have somehow lingered
in the present scribe’s memory, together with the
smell of the paint, and he takes this suitable
opportunity to state that he thinks they acted for
the best. Let bygones be bygones. When the
first Alexandra season was white with frost, the
management called Phil Day to the rescue. Great
Phil Day, the original Australian Jacques in
“Silver King,” and the immortal Bosco Blithers,
who used to “call about a hat.” Poor Phil was
paid (or owed) a big salary to play the star part—
written for J. L. Toole—in “Uncle Dick’s
Darling,” but the magnet of his name
couldn’t draw much money to the Alex-
andra.. Nobody did any good there till
Martin Simonsen came along with a capital Italian
opera co. and an enthusiastic little crowd of sub-
scribers, who had found the money to give the
spec, a fair start. The co., headed by Ciuti, Laz-
zarini, and Tagliavia, caught the musical taste at
boom-time. Melbourne’s renaissance of Italian
opera lasted for 13 weeks, and put more than
£4OOO into Simonsen’s pocket, and, at one place
and another, finishing up with a return visit to
their first camp, he kept the same artists together
for 12 months. Simonsen’s third Italian co. (his
second co. came to grief and wrangles at Melb.
Opera House) was also produced at the Aleck, not
many years ago. It was there that Signora Cut-
tica, delightful singer and charming artist, made her
first Australian appearance, but Melbourne wasn’t
taking any shabbily-mounted opera. Poor old
Simonsen suspended payment once again, and
W. and M. took over the tuneful Cuttica contin-
gent. Henry Bracy made some money at the
Aleck with his “Beggar Student” co. ; likewise
Dampier had more than one prosperous time in
the dingy barn. His best time was when every
woman in Melbourne had a mind to see Lily
Dampier play a long, lugubrious part in “The
World Against Her.” Dan Barry could some-
times make business lively at the Aleck, and
brief amateurish ventures, extending over a season
of one night, or a week or two, were frequently
lucky. But the showmen, Bland Holt among
them, who shook the dust of the Aleck from their
feet, and kicked themselves for having tried to
improve its character, were many and various.
Farces, comedies, melodramas, opera—light,
medium, and heavy, musidal comedies, high-class
plays, also circuses and wild beasts have failed
ignominiously at the late unlamented establish-
ment. As often as not the failure served some-
body right.
* • » *
J. C. Williamson’s talk, last, year of retiring
from Melbourne management and going to
England and America and confining his enterprise
to Sydney, &c., &c., (all of which was taken with
grains of salt by people who were watching his
diplomacy) seems to have ended in a determination
to do exactly what he said he would never do
.again— viz., divide his interests equally between
Melbourne and Sydney. He booked a three
months lease of Melb. Alexandra in the first place,
but as soon as he found ex-partner Musgrove de-
termined to run the Princess’s in person,
Williamson (at his new house) took hold of the
“Aleck” property and made up his mind to
“maintain the traditions of the theatre with
which he had been so long associated in Spring-
street.” Melbourne is glad to find that J.C.W.
was only “spoofing ” when he bade the city adieu.
** * *
“ The Gates of Bondage,” the last drama
Eut up at the Alexandra, was in some respects a
etter-acted version of “The Deemster” than
Wilson Barrett gave us under the title of “Ben-
my-Chree.” Undoubtedly the Woods-Williamson
crowd should have started business with “The
Gates,” instead of the dreary patriotic piece of
foolishness in which they first took the floor.
Woods, as Dan Mylrea, looked very like a real
demoralised outcast when he got cut off from
Manx society, and was left to work out lonely sal-
vation on a fish diet. Also, he made a good impres-
sion throughout the duel scene, and the duel itself
surpassed all previous death struggles at the
Alexandra. Godfrey Cass’s furious attack on
Woods was a fine, blood-lusty example of nimble
histrionics. The young man got worsted in the
end because the drama had to turn upon his
corpse, so to speak, but The Bulletin hopes to
see him playing indestructible heroes in the near
future. Cass, in kharki, versus the Enemies of
the Empire would make a stirring fight.
** * *
Her Majesty’s Theatre (late Alexandria)
will be opened by J. C. Williamson, on Saturday,
with a revival of “ Pinafore.” It goes without
saying that the house will be opened in first-class
style, and as regards “Pinafore” everybody
knows it for a satirical, whimsical, nautical opera
wherein the gallant captain says “ Dam my ; ” and
the royal ballerinas darice a hornpipe of the very
finest quality.
*# * *
“ What Happened to Jones ” is happening
for the fifth week at the Princess’s, and the vital
energy of that neatly - balanced joke has not
abated. Arnold’s show travels with the joyful
consciousness of having caught on. In the lan-
guage of Lohr, it is “ All right ” ; also, “ it would
disturb the serenity of an owl.” And a further
matinee of “ Jones ” is announced for this Satur-
day (19th).
* *
“ The Ladder of Life ” at the Royal is
another cause of large audiences. The Gordon
Highlanders have carried all before them fora
good many nights, but their gallantry doesn t
appear to pall upon the patriots in front. They
go on charging for England while the management
charges for admission and whistles God Save the
Queen.
*m * *
At the Bijou things move along peacefully
Amann is giving them Cronje, Henry Parkes,
Sheneral Roberts and other people, as usual, and
Irene Franklin warbles her “ Trade Mark ” with
kind attention in the same fetching little way.
** * *
It is hard to account for the queer bursts
of apathy and enthusiasm on the part of the
Melb. public in matters theatrical. Just now
there is a rush to all the available houses ; a few
months ago only one could expect to have its seats
decently covered for six nights a week; a month
or two ahead a dread emptiness may again freeze
up dramatic enterprise. General prosperity is
not responsible, as that remarkable veteran is not
more obvious now than he has been for two years
or so, and the butcher, baker, and candlestick-
maker are sending up doleful complaints to high
heaven, bewailing the sickness in trade, and the
belief that money lias vanished from the face of
the earth.
A Shylock Come to Judgment.
Sydney Telegraph, which desires to see the
powers of the Privy Council unrestricted, and
points out that the Federal Supreme Court can-
not possibly satisfy the British money-lender,
talks thus in a leading article (May 15) regarding
compulsory arbitration in Maoriland :
It has been said that the employers were ready, in the
event of this happening (i.e., an adverse judgment given
by M.L. Supreme Court], to carry the matter to the Privy
Council, but it is extremely improbable that they will
take that course. Nobody doubts that it was the inten-
tion of Parliament when the Act was under consideration
to so frame it that the Arbitration Court should have the
power given it to favor the claims of union laborers to
employment as against non-unionists. And even if it
should be held that this has not been done with sufficient
certitude in the wording of the measure the remedy is
one which Parliament can supply in a few hours. . . .
It would, therefore, he quite useless for employers to
move the Privy Council. Before that tribunal could
speak Parliament can carry through an amendment of the
Act which would render any question of interpretation
impossible.
The British money-lender and his cherished appeal
are on precisely the same footing. If the Privy
Council’s interpretation of an Australian law is
likely to be more favorable to the British money-
lender than the Federal Supreme Court’s inter-
pretation, then—as the Telegraph points out —if
the Federal Parliament desires the Australian inter-
firetation to prevail, “the remedy is one which Par-
iament can supply in a few hours.” “It would,
therefore, be quite useless for [the British money-
lender] to move the Privy Council. Before that tri-
bunal could speak Parliament can carry through an
amendment of the Act, which would render any
question of interpretation impossible.” Precisely.
So the Telegraph is confuted out of its own
mouth. The British money-lender’s interests are
said to be bound up in the power of “ superior in-
terpretation ” possessed by the Privy Council.
But, while Australia retains the right to make its
own laws, the money-lender’s privilege is moon-
shine. For, as the Telegraph judiciously points
out, though the Privy Council may alter an Aus-
tralian interpretation of the law, Australia can go
behind the Privy Council and alter the law.
Melbourne has got her first authenticated
case of bubonic. —
The repeated allegations as to the use of
dum-dum bullets by the Boers are, perhaps, ex-
plainable by the statement of the eminent London
surgeon Treves (recently at the front) that,
although at 1500 to 2000 yards, the Mauser bullet
Eenetrates like a needle, it will, at 500, shatter a
one to fragments.
Cronwright-Schreiner, Olive Schreiner’s
husband, is among the best of living authorities
on angora goats. He breeds them extensively in
S. Africa, and knows their ways thoroughly.
Which probably accounts for the reported fact
that he was not nonplussed when Jingo hoodlums
recently bellowed and cavorted around him.
Roeburne (W.A.) town council recently
got itself into a flutter over the report that one of
its members—-ominously named Kruger —had de-
clared that he would like to fight for the Boers.
Pressed for an official explanation, K. mildly re-
marked that he had only expressed his agreement
with Herbert Spencer, John Morley, and a few
other obscure dunderheads, in the opinion that
the present South African war is an unjust one.
The “ loyalty ” of some of the councillors, however,
was too tender to stand even this ; and, as Kruger
couldn’t be kicked out, they kicked themselves
out by refusing to sit with such a seditious mis-
creant.
In other places Plague’s fell blast
To swellings strange has led ;
With Melbourne ’tis reducing fast
The swelling-rof her head 1


Hit
‘w
t
v-
«
A
£ETZ*F
g p»g!
es= 9 Cdj
Innl ,ip= 5 ssi jp-3
as rap 1 , SB
TOE
The
ZETZ Spring
mn
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAVY AND WAR OFFICE.
pr
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.’'
Cope Bros. & Co„ Ltd., Liverpool. Agents: I. Butty & Co., Sydney.
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. W. & .T. Lempriere, Mining Machinery
Merchants, 506 Little Collins-street, Melbourne, report
that the Luhrig system of concentration is gradually es-
tablishing itself in the principal mills of Australia. The
latest Luhrig vanner has a large capacity, and owing to
important improvements the life of the belt, &c., is greatly
increased. Vanners and spare parts are stocked in Meib.
and prompt delivery is thus assured. A small testing
plant is available near Melbourne. Upon receipt of
necessary data, estimates for complete plants, including
batteries, rolls, trommels, jigs, classifiers, vanners, &c.,
will be proceeded with by competent engineers.*
* * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quininr Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * • •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor llorsfleld Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &0., &c.*
Norman Godlcin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
* * • *
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson nlso manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts, forgings, and all sortsof iron-work.*
• * » •
Insurance Spectator, July Ist., 1899: “The
Colonial Mutual Society stands on a broad and firm basis.
Its interests are widely spread. It has the confidence of
the assuring public, a strong programme, and energetic
management.”* » , *
Gilfillan and McCreery have removed to more
commodious offices in the Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne. They have enlarged their mining laboratory
and ore-testing works and are prepared to test parcels of
ore to ascertain the most successful and economical
method of treatment.*
• * * •
The Wilfley Concentrator, which was lately in-
troduced to Australia by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., Ltd., is meeting with much success, users describing
it as far and away the best machine of the day, and the
CO. is kept busily engaged in turning out the machines to
keep pace with the orders. The range of adjustment to
suit various classes of ores is such that the machines are
being successfully employed to concentrate on tin, copper,
silver and gold ores, and the machines are now working
in all the colonies. The Central Silver Mine, Broken Hill,
after consideration of all existing plants and careful ex-
periments, have adopted them and are putting them in.*
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can be ob-
tained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
Q. Mining items. Old Donnybrook, at Ravens-
wood, bobs up with 4070 z. from 101 tons; tailings esti-
mated as worth another lOOoz. Mt. Morgan, usual 7d.
div. ; last crushing shows slight falling off. Woodlarks
and Chillagoes still very retiring. Raub crushed 2000
tons for 1900 oz. ; shares up to £5 7s. ; Q. Judge Pope
Cooper holds a big hand in these. Gympie No. IN.
Smithfield, 245 tons for 781 oz,; Is. div. No. 2 South
Great Eastern, 1167 tons for 1900 oz. ; Is. div. Q. Menzies,
160 tons for 150 oz. ; cyanide result of 300 oz. from 430 tons
seems to point where some of the missing gold is. Ch.
Towers still firm. Brilliant St. George and B. Central
coming along with a strong pull. In April 63,980 tons
yielded 40,3780 z. (quartz 16,350 tons for 17,6780 z., cyanide
47,630 tons for 22,7000 z.). Cyanide proportion seems un-
duly large. Some results B. and St. George, 2 crushings,
2722 tons, 30050 z.; Is. div. ; Kelly’s, 2 crushings, 1350
tons for 16170 z.; Is. div. Day Dawn, 375 tons, 5250 z. ;
6d. div,; Band of Hope, 510 tons, 610 oz. ; 6d. div. Bril-
liant, 1000 tons for 12220 z. Towers April divs., £30,500.
* * * *
S. Australia’s very latest gold-prodigy is at Tar-
coola, and, as there is a wealthy M.L.C. deep in it, it is
being boomed rather more even than the fizzy province
has boomed its thousand-and-one other prodigies. Tar-
coola is 274 miles from Port Augusta, and prospecting can
only be done satisfactorily and safely by camel parties
Of course, the usual absurd assay-results of a few penny
weights of gold-specimens have been published.
Mining report: “Prince Lyell, Tas.—Tunnel in
398 ft. ; country hard, mineralised quartzite, copper
pyrites; bad shooting.” No doubt about the Prince
being a bad shooter. Never made a hit thus far. Sellers
6d. Its royal relative is down to 2d. or so.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38%
Caustic Soda, Garb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 817.
Hy. flarkv/ald,
178 William-streefc,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-Kt., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Brisb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NX. ;
Water-street, Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland.
A. E. (SOLPSTEIN,
(C/O S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY) -
—BUYER OF— P
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices S. ZOLLNER,
and particulars apply 30-36 Druitt-st, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
According to N.S. W. W orks Minister O’Sullivan,
who went up to Broken Hill to announce it, the Govt, has
made up its mind to propose a lme from the Hill to Cock-
burn (the terminus of the S. Aus. system), by way of
Pinnacles and Thackaringa. This means competition with
the Silverton Tram. Co. The latter’s Act puts purchase
almost out of the question ; for the Govt, may only take
over the line on paying compensation based on the co. s
current profits—at present nearly £lOO,OOO a year, lo
pav a million and three-quarters for 32 miles of narrow-
eauge line built over flat country is not to be thought of;
in fact, if it were paid it wouldn’t be much advantage to
Broken Hill, because the rates would have to be kept
ridiculously high in order to pay interest and provide a
sinking fund on so huge a sum. It is important to re-
member that the co. was not granted a monopoly ; it took
all the risks of competition just like an ordinary trader,
though so far it has had the phenomenal luck to keep the
field to itself. Premier Lyne, it is well known, has
scruples about disturbing the co. His idea is that it came
along when the future of the silverfleld was uncertain,
and now it ought to have consideration for accepting the
risks it did ; also, seeing that a basis for determining com-
pensation was laid down, the State ought not to dodge
that by running a line alongside the company’s. But,
apart from everything else, there are several very fair
mines at Pinnacles and Thackaringa, now handicapped by
heavy cartage—one of them alone has paid £16,350 for
freight—and the question which the Govt, had to decide
was whether these were to be left undeveloped and unas-
sisted for fear of affecting the monopoly which the Silver-
ton co. has enjoyed forl2 years.
N.S.W. figures for last year, as gathered finally
by the Mines Dept. : Silver and lead, £2,070,667 ; gold,
£1 761,815; coal and shale, £1,326,798 ; copper, £399,814 ;
opal, £135,000 ; tin, £98,428 ; coke, £77,130 ; diamonds,
£10,341 ; and the rest not worth talking about. The
year’s total was £6,167,657, which was £1,290,659 better
than the ’9B figures. Gold production—a lot of Queens-
land gold is counted in—gained most; it sprang from
340,4930 z. to 496,1960 z. Silver and lead were £366,602
better (these figures are always only rough estimates), but
much of that was due to the big rise in prices. The same
with regard to copper (from £118,927 to £399,814), and
tin (from £60,000 to £98,428).
* * » •
Cobar (N.S.W.) : The mines of this camp suffer
from some disabilities which it would be easy and profit-
able for Govt, to remove. The 20 years’ working of the
big copper-mine by reverberatory furnaces was the means
of cutting out all the wood for miles round. Conse-
quently, they have to put up with the poorest and dearest
wood in N.S.W. By a job of the dirtiest description,
when the rail was extended to Oobar it was absolutely
taken round the mineral belt instead of through it, which
is the natural and shortest route, and the terminus landed
a long way from the town instead of in it. Cartage from
railway to mines averages half-a-crown a ton. It is the
best-paying branch-line in N.S.W., but has never re-
ceived the benefit of through-rates. Lithgow coal landed
on the mines costs 225. 6d. per ton. Only one mine uses
it as fuel, but if the rate from Lithgow were reduced 4s.
or 6s. a ton they would all use coal instead of wood ; and
if the railway itself were extended to the mines it would
be one of the best-paying short lines in the province. The
mining co’s would extend it themselves if allowed
Cobar-Chesney: Some hundreds of tons or 10
and 12 per cent, concentrates have been sent away from
this mine, but it is doubtful whether any profit is shown
after railway and treatment charges. The loss, too, in
concentration is greater than anticipated, but this will, to
a large extent, be got over by additional plant for catch-
ing concentrates now running off with slimes and tailings.
It has an enormous body of 3 and 4 per cent, concentrat-
ing copper ore with a little gold, and it would be extra-
ordinary if it cannot be worked at a profit while copper
keeps its present price. There is not the slightest doubt
that it can, but to do so means a large daily production,
and that in its turn calls for a heavy expenditure.
• * » *
Great Western, Cobar. This little mine con-
tinues to “ gouge ” out a few tons of ore a week, containing
f;ood gold, but mixed with so much metallic copper that
ittle or nothing can be got from it by amalgamation,
while if the ore is sent away for treatment the whole of
its value is eaten up in railway and other charges. The
present manager—and it has had many—has made an
excellent job of straightening up the very crooked old
ram’s-horn shaft, and has got on to a shoot of good ore,
which he has no means of treating locally. As it is,
there seems no hope for the show but to make the few
remaining calls and then reconstruct.
• * * «
The Occidental, Cobar, after manyfyears’ work-
ing in a tinpot way, has got itself in shape, for which it:
has largely to thank the cyanide process. By the profits
made out of its stacked tailings, as well as those cur-
rently coming from ore crushed, it has paid a few divs.,
increased its stamps from 10 to 30 (10 more are going up,
and 50 are to be at work by Xmas), built a large cyanide
plant, and is now sinking a big main shaft so as to get at
the tens of thousands of tons of ore around the old one.
The future seems absolutely secure for many years to
come. Less than three years ago the co. was willing to
sell the mine for £20,000. An option was given, a sub-
stantial deposit paid, and the crowd who put it up in
London seemed to have forgotten all about the balance,
which only represented about a year’s work on the mine.
They missed a mining bargain, for which the Occidental:
shareholders are not sorry.
* * * ♦
Cobar Gold Mines (mainly owned in London)
is in great shape for long-continued divs. ; it is the best-
opened-up, the most economically-worked and perman-
ent-looking gold-mine in N.S.W. Its returns have got to
be guessed at, but it is easier for a man as rich as Croesus
to conceal his affluence than it is for a gold-mine to con-
ceal the fact that it is doing well. Everything around
the O.G.M. above and below ground bespeaks the fact
that it is all right. None the less, it is time that it was
compelled, with all other mines, to declare its monthly
output. That is compulsory in Vic., and why not in
N.S.W. ? It is a Crown tenant, and surely the Govt,
landlord ought to know what is being got out of his free-
hold. The last balance-sheet shows costs of breaking,
raising, crushing, and cyaniding under 12s. ft ton, and it
is easy to see that since that time a further reduction has
taken place. An enormous deal of automatic work is
done at this mine. The ore-shoots are so arranged that
the ore gravitates to them to such an extent that there
are not more than half-a-dozen shovels in the mine to
keep up an output of 1500 tons per week. When the
stopes are finished they are filled with tailings. As
altered, the 100-stamp mill is doing good work, and the
cyanide plant is one of the finest and largest in Austral-
asia. Already upwards of 20,000 tons of slimes have
accumulated awaiting the determination of the manage-
ment as to the system of handling, but whether by filter-
press or agitation, it is reasonable to assume that their
treatment will show a profit of certainly over 10s. per ton.
* • * *
The Young Australia, Cobar, seems to have got
into a bad way and is now under exemption.
* » * *
Some N.S.W. peeple will be deeply interested
to know that one of the experts who lately overhauled
the Associated mine is Mr. O’Gorman, late of Oohar Gold
Mines.
* • * •
Milbum Creek copper mine (N.S.W.) now
owned by Melbourne people, promises to develop into a
valuable property. It was altogether too defiled a thing
for the saintly souls of Sydney to touch.
* * * *
Burraga copper-mine, N.S.W., now known as
“ The Lloyd” Copper Co., is rapidly getting into shape.
Already the production has nearly doubled since the
mine was taken over in August last. Mining costs have
been reduced, and thousands of tons of ore have been
placed in sight by development, a thing quite unknown
before. A new hauling-shaft has been brought up
through the old workings and partly through new
ground, a big concrete dam has been put in, several new
reverbatories built, two 120-ton blast-furnaces with hot
blast stoves are building, an enormous flue and a, 200 ft.
chimney-stack are going up, and every other provision is
being made for the expansion of this big and long-worked
mining concern. Yet the mine was refused not long ago,
by so-called copper and other experts, for less than half
the sum paid for it last year, when those who bought it
got a bargain. In fact, about half the money asked by
the veteran Lloyd three years ago for the mine was repre-
sented, in actual copper, in the bottoms of the old rever-
batory-furnaces at Lithgow and on the mine 1
* » * •
Yiotory, Forest Reefs (N.S.W.), about to be re-
constructed. Company has applied for Govt, aid to the
extent of £5OO, and will get it, not because M’sP. figuro
largely in the shareholders’-list, but because the co. is
deserving of it for demonstrating the asininity of Ballarat
and Oreswick mine-owners, who will use puddling-
machines instead of heavy-weight stamper-batteries for
treating liquid mud.
Of N.S.W. dredging schemes it is reported that
“ investors are gradually realising the great possibilities
of substantial profits being secured in the purchase of
these shares at the present low prices.” Tub Bulletin
ventures to prophesy that not six out of the numerous
companies which have been floated will return profits
equal to the “present low prices.” When pioneer
Garland's dredge started on the Macquarie the scribbling
wiseacres were sanguine that there would be results
which would create an unexpected N.S.W. boom. But
solemn —and most significant-silence was maintained as
to Garland’s results and then the would-be boomsters
shifted their ground to the Turon. That scheme seems
to be daily receding from golden points towards which
the public were assured it was ever approaching. It has
been a hideous failure as far as realisation of promoters’
anticipations is concerned. Nothing abashed tho boom-
sters now travel off to Araluen. It is quite probable that
some of the companies about to operate there will earn
divisible profits. Should this eventuate the long talked-
of boom will come. The ultimate results will be a few
successes and a hundred failures; much boodle for the
wise men who float dredging cos. and much weeping and
wailing and gnashing of teeth for the fools who put up
the money.
• * * *
Hillgrove (N.S.W.) in a sorry plight. Baker’s
Creek battery, for the first time, has run ahead of the
mine, and is now idle awaiting further mine develop-
ment ; Eleanora repeating its history—once more being
pig-rooted by tributors ; West Sunlight closed down ;
Cooney Co. has so far failed to locate Smith’s reef in its
property. The only gleam of sunshine seems to be at the
Sunlight, which is getting better returns.
English advices to some Broken Hill directors
are that a substantial rise in silver is to be looked for.
The talk is of as much as 6d. an oz. Apparently there is
expectation of it, too, in the U.S., for recent papers say
that abandoned Comstock mines are being got ready
again. The big lead prices have also set the Colorado
and other camps booming again. As to the silver the
explanation is that there is likely to be big buying for
minting. The world's stocks are, however, appalling.
• • • *
Nothing at Broken Hill has improved more
■during the last week or two than the Junction North.
* * • •
Odling’s magnetic process, which the B.H.
Prop, is going to try for the separation of the particles in
the sulphides, and for which it is claimed that it can get
out the rhodonite, has been developing for 11 years. Mr.
Odling’s first machine was designed to get rid of the some-
what similar and equally exasperating pyrrhotine in the
Pinnacles ore.
» m • •
The Wifley concentrator will soon be humming
all over Australasia. Over 50 already at work and under
order for Broken Hill. The machine has a distinguishing
feature. It does not attempt to draw a line between
clean concentrates and clean tailings, but allows a wide
margin, and puts that portion back on to the machine
again—a simple but sensible idea.
* * * m
G. H. Blakemore, the brainy young metallur-
gist, who for some time ran the Illawarra works and lately
read an on-the-whole capital paper to the N.S.W. Chamber
of Mines on Government Metallurgical Works, goes to N.
Queensland in charge of the Ennisleigh. Mr. Blakemore
has for some years been veteran John Howell’s under-
study. His opinion of Govt, metallurgical works is that
they ought to be purely experimental, and that the staff
ought to earn its salary by solving the heaps of problems
that are lying round on tailings-dumps, and in abandoned
mines.
* * * *
Departed from Sydney last week, “ unwept,
■unhonored, and unsung,” Deep-levels Bouchier. All
mining folk agree that a more gentlemanly, straightfor-
ward man than Mr. Bouchier never appeared on the Aus-
tralian scene. Pity ’tis that his luck was not equal to his
pluck. Had it been so, on his departure, he would have
had to submit to the sickening slobber which attends
success.
• • • *
Minister Fegan promises to amend the mining
laws of N.S.W., so that they will be understandable to the
commonest intellect. He has undertaken a big contract.
It would make a highly profitable day-labor job.
• * * *
The story goes that Mr. Taylor is making a suc-
cess of smelting at N.S.W. Peak Hill Proprietary mine.
* • • •
The Critio’s (Adelaide) London correspondent
■describes big Henry Bratnober as the man who condemned
the goldfields of Westralia, and thereby lost the Roths-
childs the chance of acquiring some of the big Kalgoorlie
properties—adding that, while he was wrong in his
estimate, so were other great mining authorities, such as
Dr. Schmeisser. It is the newspaper-man, and not the
Bismarckian mining-engineer, who is wrong. The mines
that Bratnober condemned in Westralia have, almost
without exception, since condemned themselves. Because
he happened to go to Hannan’s, then mainly a dry-
blowers’ camp, it is declared that he condemned the great
mines of Kalgoorlie. The mines he saw at Hannan’s were
those that are no better to-day than they were then. The
Great Boulder and others around it were prospecting
quartz veins, mostly valueless, and knew absolutely
nothing of the existence of the rich formations they are
now working. Bratnober, like the writer, may have
passed over them on his way somewhere else, but he did
nothing more, for there was then nothing more to do. Of
the few mines that impressed him as having any chance of
permanency was Menzies’ find, now known as the Lady
Shenton, for which he made a good offer when it consisted
of a few shallow holes sunk here and there on the reef,
and the history of that surface-show has only served to
prove the correctness of his judgment.
* • * •
The Associated G.M., Kalgoorlie, recently
started to give its monthly costs with its monthly pro-
duction, and on each occasion the former exceeded the
latter —on the last, to such an enormous extent that the
Kalgoorlie newspaper mining-hummer declared that the
costs have been exaggerated. Well, as a rule, it is all the
other way. What possible motive can there be for
exaggerating costs unless it is to “bear” shares? It
would not be surprising to hear an accusation of this kind
made against some persons prominently connected with
the mine, which, despite the heavy fall, still has a market-
value of, say, £1,750,000, although it is officially declared
that its last month’s working was done at a loss of
over £lO,OOO. The London experts who lately ex-
amined the mine say that comparatively little pay-
ore is visible, and that the gold-shoots shrink to
littleness at the lower levels. Not a word said
anywhere in favor of the mine, which stands at this value
in the face of these statements and a continued monthly
loss. What is the of this thusness ? Shares are
oversold to the extent of hundreds of thousands, and
scrip cannot fall to its intrinsic value while so oversold
and while hundreds of people knowing the true condition
of things continue to shoot at them. This is the, position
as clear as noon-day sun, known to hundreds of people on
the field and elsewhere and yet nobody points it out.
• * • *
Thanks to cyaniding, some Kalgoorlie mines’
results show improvement in the per-ton yield. Great
Boulder, for instance, averaged, in ’9B, 2oz. ldwt.
3gr. ; and in ’99, loz. 12dwt. 7gr. ; but in April the return
was up to 2oz. 3dwt. 3gr. Still many of these yields are
stated unfairly. The Boulder’s figures for last month are
given in most lists —“ stone treated, 3448 tons ; g°> c L
74350 z. ; averages, 2oz. 3dwt. 3gr.,” while as a matter of
fact 37890 z. of this total was won from tailings accumu-
lated any time these past five years. It would be fair
enough to include the cyanide results from the tailings of
an equal quantity of stone ; but in this case nearly two
tons of tailings went through for every ton of stone.
* * * *
Kanowna, W.A., suffering from the re-action
of the deep lead rush, still has hopes. White Feather
Main Reef has paid regular divs. the last few months,
with more in sight. April average, lOdwts. Much is ex-
pected locally from the Kanowna Consolidated, an Eng-
lish co. floated last year to work certain lsases at the head
of the famous Q.E.I). lead. This co. has three reefs, now
being opened up to 300 ft. ready for stoping—-average
value reported as 16dwts. To show their bona-fides it is
told that manager cabled ’Ome one day for winding plant,
and received return cable next day saying plant had been
bought and shipped. Which ought to be a record.
Adjoining lease —the Ballarat —worked by tributors for
some time past for a return between 2oz. and 3oz. per
ton, is now in English hands. And the Robinson still
another English co.—which has existed on public crush-
ing for many months, has started to mill its own ores
again, expecting a lOdwts. return.
* * * •
There will be a rush out back for the settled
Westralian goldfields this winter; it is six years since
there were such good early rains, especially in the north.
* * # ♦
tlainault shareholders, who have been waiting
long and patiently, are cheered by the strike of a reef at
500 ft. But it is poor—schist, with quartz veins through
it. Still, as there is 12ft. Gin. of it, and is highly mineral-
ized, there is hope.
* * * *
Significant that Kalgoorlie mines are busier at
surface now than underground. The imperative need to
tackle the sulphides is responsible. Associated, L.V.
Consols, and Kalgurli are busiest; and the Perseverance
had several hundred tons of stuff landed lately at
Freemantle.
♦ * * *
The Bulletin wishes to know who are to be
prosecuted in connection with the Associated fiasco: the
directors who, but a few months ago, stated, in an official
document, that there were 750,000 tons of payable ore m
8i <r ht, or the experts, who now state that the available
quantity of 32dwt. ore—unpayable—is only 33,000 tons?
Recent disclosures in connection with some
W.A. mines surely justify the assumption that in mining
parlance “blunder” and “plunder” are synonymous
terms.
* * * *
In Westralia they still float companies one day
and make calls the next. Scrip in the La Tosca Co. was
issued April 12. Before the end of that month the direc-
tors met the shareholders, “ shouted ” for all hands, and
made a 3d. call. And that co. probably has a “ capital ”
of £50,000, at the very least.
• * • •
The Windsor Consolidated —Zeb. Lane s first
big “ float ” this trip—was lately “ offered to the public ”
in London. This is what “ offering to the public ” meant
in this case Capital, £150,009, in 150,000 shares. Ven-
dors take 100,000 shares. Vendors also subscribe for
10,000 shares. Also, vendors underwrite 30,000 shares.
Likewise, vendors have the option to take the other
10,000 shares inside 12 months. Total, 150,000.
• * » *
One thing “ sticks out a mile”: The English
companies are about to try and reduce miners’ wages in
Westralia. “ Wages are a great deal too high,” says the
Associated expert’s report, “ to ensure the mines paying 1
the hours of labor are too short, and too many hands are
employed.” It will mean a lot of trouble.
• * * *
Boulder Main Reef has declared a Is. div. The
first ever declared from the treatment of Kalgoorlie
sulphides. # ,
George Brookman, it would appear from a
bundle of little mining-shark rags to hand by the mail, is
to have a red-hot welcome in London at the hands of a
section of the market-gang, who are circulating, with ap-
propriate comments, lists of the failures he has fathered.
Also, George Gray incidentally gets some severe “ turns.”
* * * *
What trustful fools Australians are to invest,
under present conditions, in mines absolutely controlled
and faked by a lot of shady London stockjobbers 1 What
on earth does anybody here, not right in the ring, know
about the real condition of any of the big Westralian
mines, for instance? Sooner or later the Australian
public will see that every mine leased by the State to a
private person is regularly inspected and publicly
reported on by a trustworthy and well-paid Govt, official,
and in the case of very important mines the reports will
come at short intervals. Why the Australian public
should allow packs of foreign sharpers to get possession of
our (the State’s) mines and use said mines as instruments
of confidence-swindle and daylight robbery is indeed a
mystery. Why does the law discountenance the three-
card trick and “ under-and-over ” ?
• • * *
It appears to be a solemn fact that Major (or is
it General) Collins, erstwhile of Broken Hill and other
places, who now runs the Lake View Consols, gets
£lO,OOO a year salary. He showed his agreement in
Svdney the other day, an imposing document weighing
about 21bs, and fairly bristling with signatures and seals.
Queensland Mining Co. stock had a brief boom
on Melbourne ’Change last week all along of a forged
telegram purporting to come from Elder, Smith & Co.,
Adelaide. The wire sent late on Saturday afternoon (sth)
said : “ Anglo-Continental Syndicate, London, appointed
us their agents, resume negotiations purchase Queens-
land Mining Investment props, same terms as before,
allowing equal rights new issue; they guarantee com-
pletion immediately. Writing Monday.” Shares har-
dened on Monday, and next morning they soared up-
wards to 6s. and 7s. —not much of a soar considering they
had touched 30s. at the wayback time when the Anglo-
Continental G.M. Syndicate came nibbling round the
bait. A mysterious circulation of “ confidential ” memos.
re the alleged London offer seems to have done more
harm than good for the schemers. It isn’t usual for
people in the know to diffuse their knowledge around the
room on bits of paper ; consequently, not. more than 3000
shares changed hands at the advanced prices. Meanwhile
theMelb. manager had wired to Elder, Smith & Co., and the
cat was fairly out of the bag on Wednesday. At time of
writing, sundry detectives were under orders to find the
unknown author of the cronk wire; likewise the philan-
thropic person who put those bits of paper around.
Somebody seems to have been very anxious to quit his
interest in the Q.M. Co.
* * • »
Urinaiy troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Buchu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.


DAVID JONES & COMPANY
MERCERS, HATTERS, and GENERAL OUTFITTERS.
SOFT FRAME FELT.
7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
STRAW HATS.
2/9, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6.
AUSTRAL TROPICAL HELMETS— IO/6, 12/6.
itar IMPORTERS OF
HIGH-GRADE ENGLISH & AMERICAN
FELT HATS, NECK WEAR,
UMBRELLAS, etc., etc.
PARIS HAT.
21/-, 22/6, 257-
HARD FELT HAT.
8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
George & Barrack
Streets,
SYDNEY.
WHAT’S in a NAME?
TRADE MARK.”
A Guarantee of Quality an'.
. . Efficiency . .
There is a Good Dea.l when it bears
such Weight with the public.
iir Notice the Trade Mark and Name
OP
HARRINGTON & QO. LTD.
Whose IMMENSE PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK
• comprises
Cameras at ss. and Cameras at £5O.
And Hundreds in various Grades and Sizes.
From 1,2, 3,4, 5,6, 7, 10 to 25 GUINEAS.
Every conceivable Photo Requisite in Stock , n
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches or Agencies in Every Colony.
SOCIETY
A dispute between'the men of the newly-
formed squadron of Sydney Lancers and the
powers that be is exciting some interest in ama-
teur military circles. The troop had decided on
one of their members as a certainty for a lieuten-
ancy in the regiment, but he has been passed over,
and the lieutenancies given to Messrs. Lyne and
See, sons of the Premier and Chief-Secretary re-
spectively, the third going to one of the Darleys.
How; exactly is history repeating itself in all the
provinces ! The men much resent this, as they
object to be governed by officers appointed by
mere influence. As a protest, when they were
asked to form a camp in connection with the
Queen’s Birthday manoeuvres only three of the
squadron volunteered. An effort is being made to
conciliate them, but at present the men are firm,
and the camp will have to be held without them.
* * * *
A so far unreported incident in connection
with the Victorian Bushmen. While camped at
Mentone, a friend of one of the men was on his
way to the camp when he met four privates and
an officer—all full of patriotism and liquor. The
officer said, “Here comes a d Boer. Have a
shot at him ! ” and promptly followed his own
advice by firing a revolver at the visitor. Fortun-
ately he was in no condition to see straight, and
THE BACKBLOCKS FAMILY IN TOWN.
“ 'Ere, mother, ’arf time! What about the twins?”
the bullet struck the footpath ; but, glancing off,
it struck the victim in the stomach, inflicting a
nasty wound. He was taken to hospital, and has
just come out still feeling the effects of the shot.
But how did it happen that the officer was sup-
plied with ball cartridge ?
• * * *
\Vhen late Yic. Gov. Brassey was leaving
Australia, the Queenscliffe forts (Port Phillip) had
orders to fire a 17-gun salute when Brassey’s
yacht, the Sunbeam, should be passing, but it un-
fortunately happened that, about the expected
time, a collier put in her appearance, and duly
received the salute. Then, when, half-an-hour
later, the Sunbeam did come along, she got no
recognition, because the officer in charge was out
of barracks, and there was no one to authorise
more powder-burning. Again, when the Bush-
men’s Contingent was leaving, great preparations
for a send-off were made at the same forts in the
way of colored-lamps, limelights, bonfires, and so
on, which, again, were all wasted upon the wrong
vessel. And, yet more recently, when the Aus-
tralian Imperial Regiment was leaving on board
the Victoria, the little demonstration from the
forts was brought off just 14 hours too early. The
troopship left about 10 o’clock on the Wednesday,
and the display took place about eight the night
before. Now if, in times of peace, the eyes of Port
Phillip’s fortress cannot tell the spick-and-span
Sunbeam from a grimy collier, what may be ex-
pected in time of war, or what chance will there
be of damage to an enemy, instead of to friendly
passers-by ?
* ». * * *
The warmth caused by the Adelaide Hos-
pital dispute has penetrated into many unex-
pected corners. For instance, Dr. Leith Napier,
one of the most genial of men, was blackballe f
when he attempted to join a bowling-club, and
now, for Hospital-feud reasons, the City Health
Ulhce declines to accept an invitation to be pre-
sent a»t Hospital post-mortems on bodies of persons
(lead from infectious diseases. Moreover, because
Dr. Ramsay Smith is president of the Ceutral
Board of Health, the City Health Officer will have
no dealings with that body either.
* * • *
At Goulbum Anglican Synod the other
day Rev. P. (J. Smith denounced the title
rector, describing it as “an empty, vain,
ambitious sound, with no sense or meaning in
Australia.” But why did he again and again call
the Bishop sitting before him “My Lord ” ? If
rector’’is vain as applied to a Minister in Aus-
tralia, Lord” is much vainer, for the former’
only connotes clerical rank while the latter impu-
dently annexes a lay dignity. If names or nick-
names are worth arguing about a line of consist-
ency should be drawn.
* • * ,
Text for a Maupassant. “W.F. H.” to
The Bulletin
I was idling about in the railway-yards when a man,
employed in shunting, fell under the wheels of a moving
truck, and had his right leg and hip hideously, hopelessly
crushed. He was picked up and laid on some coats spread
on the platform, and a doctor soon came. The poor
shunter was suffering intensely, but, after the surgeon
had examined him, he coolly said, “ Doctor, how bad is
it ? “ Very bad indeed.” “ Shall I live ? ” “ Not more
than, perhaps, 10 minutes. You are bleeding to death.”
1 What time is it, Jim ?” asked the man of a fellow-em-
ploye. “11.55” was the answer. “The children will
bring my dinner at 12 sharp. Some of you go and stop
them. They mustn’t see me die. Poor, motherless
children orphans now 1 ” I went to the door, with
others, and we were just in time to stop a b.oy of eight
and a girl of six from coming in. Each had hold of a
basket, containing father’s dinner, and they were smiling
in anticipation of the greeting they would receive. We
sent them away with a story about their father having
gone home, and the eyes of both were filled with tears of
disappointment. The echo of their footsteps could still
be heard on the pavement when the father breathed his
last.
• • * *
There is one sleepy town in Victoria, and
one of the oldest in the province, which deserves
to be infamous for the startling num-
ber of idiots, miscellaneous cripples,
and incurables afflicted with malignant
hereditary evils it has produced. The
town is the abiding place of many
wealthy families, and it is shocking to
note how frequently physical and
mental diseases of a transmissible
kind appear in these families. A large
percentage of thorn produce idiots,
and an impartial census disclosing the
town’s unenviable productiveness in
this respect, and in the matter of
scrofula cases and human malform-
ations, would shock Australia. There
is a good deal of intermarriage
amongst the “old families” of the
town and district, and the “best
set” prides itself on being quite the
“ naicest ” in Victoria.
* • *
Not generally known that the
bronze figure of Mercury over the Age
office was originally imported for the
Commercial Bank of Australia.
When the ’93 collapse arrived the
Commercial’s new whited sepulchre
in Collins-st. was not out of the hands
of the contractor. In the light of the
’93 exposures, the erection of the
statue over the bank would have been too cruel;
so Mercury la,y in the bank vaults until David
Syme bought it at a verra low figure, ye ken.
• ♦ * *
An interesting prison item :
Continuous agitation has secured the release from
Pentridge of the notorious negro, “ King,” in a manner
carefully hushed up by the authorities so that attention
might not be directed to the case. King originally got a
sentence of 12 months, but this was pronounced nearly
nine (9) years ago, and he has been in Pentridge ever
since—he says, through the ill-treatment of the warders ;
but they say, through his mad fits of violence. From
time to time King’s case has been taken up by Marshall
Lyle and others, who held that enquiry should be made,
but the Govt, refused to move, alleging that the convict
was a criminal lunatic of the worst type, and that his
liberty would be a standing menace to human life. ThiJ
is the man they released the other day, long before the
completion of his accumulated sentences, and whose dis-
charge to freedom was accomplished in so secret a man-
ner that it was only owing to a casual row between King
and another darkey over, a white woman (of course), that
the fact was made public. King was not discharged in
the ordinary way, through the police. He was made the
subject of a special order of the Governor-in-Council, a
process usually reserved for letting loose relatives of poli-
ticians, persons of influence, and criminals of a Naice
type. As an obscure and inferior nigger pugilist, King
fits none of these types, and there is consequently some
other reason for the extreme secrecy observed in his case.
The inference left is that his release prevents what might
prove a very awkward enquiry, for it was bound to come
in time, and enables the Crown to turn round next time
the case is mentioned and cry, “ Why, we released the
man long ago—behold ! what a merciful Government we
are.”
• * * •
If the blue rumours heard re the Melb.
Agricultural Show grounds, especially at night
during the stay there of the Vic. Imperial Bush-
men’s Contingent, are not altogether the product
of fantasy, the Martial of the epoch, through not
being] on the spot, missed one of the finest oppor-
tunities in Victorian history for constructing epi-
grammatic diagonals to Art and Obscenity.
COMFORTING THE WIDOW.
DISCONSOLATE WIDOW : “Til never get another husband like him”
SYMPATHETIC FRIEND : “ Oh, I wouldn’t say that. You’ve hardly had time yet to
look round.”
Victoria’s new .County Court Judge
Johnston bids fair to emulate N.S.W.’s three-
years-for-ninepenco Gibson. The other day he
gave a previously-convicted man two years “hard’
for stealing a bottle of beer. Also he belioves in
the savage “ solitary system,” even to the extent
of giving a prisoner nine days’ starvation in three
months, notwithstanding it had been put forward
that accused suffered from an injury to the head
and was at times irresponsible. The career of
Judge Johnston should be worth watching.
* » * *
The Collingwood (Melb.) ,T.P. strives to
emulate his brother beak of Carlton in his gentle
treatment of the larrikin. Recently two members
of the gang known as the “ Fitzroy murderers,”
apparently out of pure devilment, severely bat-
tered an unoffending citizen at his own door, and
the Bench, after fining the delinquents £lO and
£5 respectively, mulcted complainant’s son, who
had apparently been defending his father from a
cowardly and unprovoked attack, in the sum of
£2 for allegedly assaulting his assailants. It really
looked as if this were by way of apology to “the
push.”
* * * *
Just after Judge A’Beckett had pro-
nounced a decree nisi in a Melb. divorce case the
other day a young man stepped forward, and told
HIS HONOR: “ WHAT IS YOUR CHRISTIAN
NAME? ”
his Honor that the just-released petitioner (the
husband) had, only the previous Friday, taken
another man’s wife away from husband and chil-
ren. The Court could, of course, take no notice
of the information at that stage, but the inter-
vener was referred to the Crown authorities.
Interesting to discover whether the husband’s
subsequent adultery, if proved, will nullify the
decree—obtained on the ground of his wife’s mis-
conduct.
• * • »
The scare has its uses. On the day when
the Age burst forth with “ The Plague in
Melbourne ” (large type) the municipal price for
dead rats rose 50 per cent—from 2d. to 3d. And
the rat-catchers as a rule are deserving citizens
who wanted that extra penny very badly.
There was
recently a
strike of grave-
diggers at
Rook wood
Cemetery.
Not the first
time these
functionaries
have left their
employers in a
hole.
« Does it not
seem extraor-
dinary that in
Sydney Chin-
ese market-
gardeners are
allowed to cart
from town
stable -manure
and refuse in
the very ve-
hicles in which
they have
same day con-
veyed vege-
tables-to
market !
Some peo-
ple have all the
luck. Here is
a big firm, em-
ploying more
hands than,
perhaps, any
other firm in
Sydney, yet
among all
those hands—
who live all
over the place,
north, south,
east, and west
—there has, so
far, not been
a single re-
ported case of plague. Sc men are, must be,
born with a golden spoon in u .ieir mouths.
i * * • •
There was quite a curious set of coin-
cidences in the cases of two young women
who recently suicided in Hobson’s Bay (Vic.)
within a couple of days of each other.
Both bodies were found by small boys.
Both women appeared about 25 vears of age, and,
besides being so similar in features as to pass for
sisters, were similarly dressed. Friday’s victim
had a gold ring and an artificial tooth in her pocket,
wlnle Monday’s had a gold ring and a set of teeth
in her right hand.
* * * *
The case of that plague-stricken Sydney
Dago fruiterer, whose place the police had to
break into early in the morning, calls for much
consideration, because up to 8.30 the previous
evening the public had been buying its penn’orths
ot milk at the shop. An over-ripe banana or a
specked apple is the bait many of these men base
their milk-trade upon. While genuine dairymen
must have cemented dairies, away from all dwel-
ling houses, the diligent Dago is allowed to keep
his milk-supply in the general bedroom if he likes.
And he often does like.
m • * *
“ Reserved for the Hon. the Minister for
Mars, or some similar legend, is becoming in-
creasingly noticable on rail-
way carriages in at least
one Australian province.
The train drew up at
a siding lately, when,
to the further cha-
grin of passengers
who had been
crowding one an-
other for miles, the
reserved door open-
ed and out jumped
three jockey boys.
The sporting Min-
ister arrived later
in another “ re-
served ” carriage.
• *
There lived in
N.S.W. not long
ago a lady who fell
a victim to too much baptism. First
the mother had him christened her
(< w ay; but (lad wasn’t satisfied, and had
him done ” over again. Grandpa next took a
hand, and wanted him fixed up Wesleyan fashion,
and the poor child was being carted away to be put
through once more, when he died in his mother’s
arms.
* * * *
Barton s unsolicited and unexpected wire
to Premier Lyne re the extension of the deceased
wife s sister law in the Empire may have been in-
spired by communication from certain N.S.W.
acquaintances who purpose an early trip to
England and hope to present their Australian
wives without any suggestions of a bar sinister.
* • * .
Some twelve months ago a Brisbane tram-
car ran over a poor woman and killed her. The
motor-man (to whom no blame could possibly be
attached) fell ill of the shock and was off work for
some time. He finally resumed work, «nd tried to
run the tram again. Result—an instant relapse,
resulting fatally. The poor fellow said that while


Don’t be put off
with worthless
imitations of
SUNLIGHT
SOAP.
SorcTbroat
“You cannot do better than
gargle with ‘Condy’s Fluid.’ ”
Sir Morell Mackenzie, M.D.
(The Eminent Throat Specialist)
Gargle
with
Condy’s Fluid
CONDY & MITCHELL, London, England,
are the only Makers.
“Condy’s Fluid’ ’ can be purchased of
all Chemists and Stores. Beware of imitation.
HATS.
HATS, hais,
Mountcastle & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Voice, in the distance, of Mistress requiring change :
“ Mary! have you got two coppers down
there? ”
MARY : “ Yes’m; but they are both me cousins!”
on the tram he continually saw the tragedy re-
occurring.
• * * •
Chief Justice Madden has been enjoying
another waxellent time at Melb. Divorce Court.
In the course of a day’s work that painfullv-moral
lessoner summed up three respondents in his best
abusive language. The men—two of them —were
“a dissipated and selfish scoundrel” and “a
thoroughly unredeemed scoundrel” respectively,
whilst the one female who hurt his Honor’s feel-
ings was “a wilful and indifferent wife, and a
mercenary and poor-spirited woman.” Judge
Madden’s genius for discovering all the rights and
wrongs of a divorce story in half-an-hour is likely
to bring trouble on him one day. He rushes at
an opinion like a bull at a gate. Divorce-
cases, as a rule, turn only one side to the
light, but His Honor, being a wordy gentle-
man with no imagination worth mentioning,
ignores the possibilities of things that don’t come
under his observation. Sooner or later some tricky
matron will bring Chief-Justice M.’s penchant
into awful disrepute, if he doesn’t watch himself.
Virtuous indignation is a game that two can play
at. If ever the dandy positivist should happen to
make a mistake in his “scoundrel,” and the
libelled party should happen to be very muscular
and very confident of his ability to prove his
innocence after he has taken the law into his own
hands—well, perhaps it will go hard with
Madden’s shiny boll-topper in the first place.
* * * *
A high-toned old Maorilander, who held
among other offices that of district registrar,
used to relate with much gusto how his dau-
ghter got the better of him. She had the
bad taste to fall in love with an employe at
a large meat-works —the old man used to
call him a “ butcher,” but he was not quite
that. Such a union was totally against all
the family traditions, and the father re-
fused his consent. Tears and the other
resources of love-stricken daughters to
move stony-hearted parents were resorted
to in vain. She might marry almost
anyone she pleased except “ The Butcher.”
For some months nothing was heard of the
matter, and peace, apparently, reigned
in the household ; but one day the couple
appeared at the registrar’s office, and
calmly stated that they desired to be mar-
ried ! The girl had, in the interval, be-
come of age, and the registrar (her father)
knew that his consent was unnecessary, so,
calmly sitting down at his table, he asked
the customary questions as to ages, birth-
places, &c., lending no assistance and offer-
ing no remark as he heard his own and his
wife’s names mentioned as parents of the
bride. After the papers were all filled in, and
he had without tremor proclaimed them man
and wife, the climax came. Human nature
could stand out no longer, and, dashing
down his book, he kissed the bride ana
blessed her. 4
* * * •
Thank God that chap was potted,”
said the gaoler as the pious embezzler was
found guilty. “We badly want an or-
ganist down at the prison ! ”
“ Selborne ” to Melb. Argus :
During the last eight years 400 solicitors have been
admitted to practice in Victoria. Whilst the number of
solicitors has nearly doubled during that short period
there are to-day scarcely half as many men practising as
barristers only as there were in 1892. Moreover, the
amount of work available is far less than before.
Probably the Vic. Bushman corps of the future
will be composed almost entirely of clientless
attorneys. There was a leaven of learned unem-
ployed in the last Contingent. Dodging around
kopjes for 1335. per week (that’s what a lieutenant
gets), or even 355. per week, is “adoosid sight
easier profession than the Law,” as Major Pen-
dennis would have .said nowadays.
* * *
“Sniff” asks a question :
Me this cry about tip-garbage washing in again from
the ocean : If stuff dumped into the sea 5 miles out re-
appears in Sydney harbor, why doesn’t the Bondi-sewer
refuse—which is only dropped off on to the rocks —do
ditto?
* * * •
Compulsory slum-inspection at Christ-
church (M.L.) has revealed strange things. A
woman, over GO, was found bedridden with rheu-
matic gout in a stable located in a filthy yard.
The old husband tottered round collecting bottles
for a living. The rent was 3s. a week, and the
landlord played-up if it got behind.
Personal advt. from a Sydney great daily :
T W., of 25 years ago. Write me at once if you are
dead or married. —, Post-office.
* * * •
Judging by the recent Melbourne Chinese
procession there are more half-caste girls in Mel-
bourne than is supposed. Numbers were carried
in the procession, while the windows of Lilly
Buck - street swarmed writh them and their
brothers. Only here and there was a full-
blooded Chinawoman to be seen. Many of
the girls in the procession lacked any ap-
parent Mongolian strain, having blue or
grey eyes and brown hair.
• • * *
“T.D.” : That seems an aggravating
rule of N.S.W. Education Dept, which
condemns metropolitan teachers, to spend
three years in backblocks servitude. It
would possibly be a fair deal if all of them
could afford it, but I know of a girl who
has just had to leave her comfortable
Sydney home and do for herself on a screw
of 15s. a week; alternatives, leave the
service or get married.
In the latest list issued under N.S.W.
“Sale of Poisons Regulations ” “ Rough on Rats”
is styled a “proprietary medicine. A proprietary
medicinel Ay! Truly, yes—a veritable cure-all.
The Govt, is harboring a great humorist.
* * • •
In the four principal M.L. cities there is
considerable variation in the market rate of rats.
In Wellington the price per head, f.o.b. the
destructor, is 3d. ; in Auckland, 2d. ; in Christ-
ohurch Id., and in Dunedin 4d. Notwith-
standing the high rate ruling in the Empire city,
supplies do not come in at all freely, the latest
market report indicating a total of about 1000 rats
offered for sale. The supplies come principally
from school-boys, who, deliver the goods chiefly
during lunch hour, carrying them to school in the
morning in their satchels, along with their books
and their sandwiches.
• * • •
A police-item:—
“Hoodoo” : Was recently informed by a young woman,
who had been long employed in a big Sydney boarding-
house much affected by policemen, that the average
“ copper’s ” manly chest consists mostly of bath-towel !
the Dig, thick, Turkish kind. She had noticed the super-
fluity of these on the premises, and had watched until
she had discovered that Robert was in the habit of placing
a folded-up towel in the chest of his jumper or tunic.
These towels are springy, yet firm, and .make an ideal
padding. This explains why the bobby in a straw hat
who saunters into the pub in advance of the sergeant de-
ceives Bung. Such a slouch —reduced in proportions by
a big bath-towel or two —doesn’t at all suggest the well-
set-up copper. In fact, for height, weight and shape, the
Sydney shop-noblemen beat the police bad. Take a run
round" the rag-shops and see 1
But The Bulletin doesn’t believe a word of it.
The medical test for entering the police is most
exacting, and the average N.3.W. bobby is quite
as good a man as he looks.
RIVAL PROPHYLACTIG[?].
NO. 1 PARTY (very drunk) : “ Wot did they (hic)
in — (hic) —oeulate yer with, Bill?”
NO. 2 PaARTY: “Serum, of course!”
NO. 1: “Sea- rum, Sea-rum’sh mostly tip-top!
If I'd a-known that, I wouldn’t a-gone an
’noculated meself with beer!”
To a Sydney decorator’s shop, lately, a
clerical big-wig sent a plaster statue of a saint
{intended for presentation to an up-country
chapel) to be painted and ornamented ; and about
the same time there arrived a bookmaker’s bag to
have a name written on it. Next day the cleric
walked into the workshop unannounced and nearly
had a fit when he saw, hung round the effigy’s neck
(by one of the hands, in the principal’s absence) a
leather handbag, inscribed —
IKEY MOSES, CASH FIELDER.
REGISTERED BY CITY TATTERS ALL’S CLUB.
'That shop will get no more church-work, and the
wag who sacrileged is looking for another job.
• * • •
Though bubonic-fever has so far attacked
hardly any “ well-placed ” persons in Sydney
there is no end of thinly-concealed funk among
the well-fed and well-washed. In one big business
house it used to be the custom of the senior
partner to inspect the premises from basement to
topmost storey once a week, while the junior was
continually pottering round to watch the hands at
work. But since the advent of the plague, the
furthest that the senior will trust himself is to the
edge of the lift-well, and he gets away from that as
quickly as possible, while the junior wont even
budge outside his office door.
Dunne-Browne tells a woman-story :
I used to escort a fine-figured, shy little damsel to and
from the city, morning and evening, but we always
parted and met at a certain cor-
ner, as the “ office in which she
typed ” was off my track. But
one day at my tailor’s I
caught sight of her in the
next room, working hard
at my harness, and Snip
informed me she was
one of his hands who to
ok work home in the
evenings. “ Impos-
sible ! ” said I, “I’ve
never seen her carry-
ing anything.” Was
astounded when it
was explained to
me that, sooner
than be seen with
a parcel in the
street, the tailor-
girls were in the
habit of tying the
coat or trousers
around their hips,
and under the
skirt, and using
the vest as a
chest-expander,
thereby improving
the figure and set-
ting free the hands.
Am still wondering
whether the little
‘‘ typewriter” “shed”
my togs before sitting
down to dinner, or re-
tained them as a com-
fortable cushion.
N.S.W. State-school teachers have a diffi-
culty to contend with from which their brethren
in the other provinces are free —viz., the collec-
tion of the weekly “thrum.” An important
point in the estimate of a teacher’s efficiency is
his capacity for collecting and “ returning ” fees.
On the form for reporting defaulters are the
worc is—“ A teacher who steadily insists on
weekly payments ought to give the Department
little or no trouble in regard to debts for school
fees.” No book for fees-account is supplied by
the Dept.; and, as said account is therefore kept
in an unofficial record, the dry details are often
enlivened with amusing obiter dicta. On the front
page of “Fee Book” in the Infant Dept, of a
large N.S.W. public-school is inscribed
If there were two pen’orth of public
spirit in Melbourne, subscribers to the Queen Vic-
toria Diamond Jubilee Infectious Diseases Hospital
would be howling by this time for an account of
the committee’s stewardship. Two of the 12
citizens who were long ago appointed to safeguard
the cash and turn it to hospital purposes, have
died and left no sign. The remaining 10 might
as well be dead for all proof they can show of
their fitness to carry out the work entrusted to
them. Thus far they have achieved nothing ex-
cept the loss of a few hundred pounds in a legal
contest with a firm of Melbourne architects. The
architects sued the committee, alive and dead, for
damages on account of a breach of contract.
When the evidence had begun to reveal job-
bery a sudden silence fell upon the proceed-
ings, and the plaintiffs, it is understood, got
£3OO by way of compromise, each side paying its
■own costs. Do the committeemen intend to pay
this £3OO and exes, out of their own pockets, or is
the loss to be a charge against the belated Hos-
pital ? ___
Silver or copper, “ thrum ” or “ brown,”
Nothing relaxing, have “ money down,”
Build a nation ; broaden a soul ;
But see that you get the weekly dole.
Then mark it down to those who pay,
And worry the others every day ;
Let never a “bean” l>y you be missed,
You’re told, you know, that you must insist !
Take no excuse out of all the range,
“ Mother don’t owe it,” or “ has no change,”
“ Father ain’t paid,” or, in accents meek,
“ Please, sir, mother says she will pay next week.
Tour duty’s plain—however it be—
Take care to get hold of the thrip’ny fee 1
* * * *
A TALE OF TWO STUDENTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ To an Assistant, holding a Second-Olass Certificate, in
a School of the Third, Fourth, or Fifth Class. Male £136
per year, Female £IO4.—N.S.W. Public Service Act and
Regulations.”
Miss Katie Magee
From her infancie
A public-school teacher decided to he.
So she pored over books
(And spoilt her good looks,
And before she was twenty had wrinkles in plenty).
But she carried away
All the honors, they say,
And came out of training a brilliant 2A.
Her fellow P.T.,
Jack Connors, said he
Was dashed if he’d study like Kitty Magee.
So, while Miss Magee worked,
Jack idled and shirked,
And while she paled with study he grew fat and ruddy.
But by spasmodic crams
Before his exams.,
It fell out that he, too, contrived to squeeze through—
With a paltry 28.
And now this is the question that flabbergasts me :
Why, for the same work,
(That he still tries to shirk,)
He is now getting clear thirty-two pounds a year
More than Kitty Magee ?
(Ah, the ways of “ the Service ” are too deep for me !)
Eh ?—Get out! it can’t be !
Well, by George, were I she,
I’d don them at once if they’d add to my riches !
And, by gad, I am glad
I was born a lad,
Since I see ’tis not “brains” that is paid for but
“ breeches ”!
GLENGARRIFF.
“No Irish. Need Apply!”
“ An Irishman ” to The Bulletin :
Editor Bulletin, —Did you read of the heroic deeds of
Irish soldiers serving for England in the-Transvaal ? Did
you read of England’s reward—Queen Victoria’s visit to
Dublin ? her toleration of the Irish soldier’s shamrock on
St. Patrick’s day? Lord Salisbury’s avowal at the Prim-
rose League banquet that the lesson of Home Rule in the
Transvaal was that for Home Rule, in the cant phrase of
English prejudice, “no Irish need apply”? Did you
mark the consistency with England’s treatment of Ireland
all down the centuries—for her patriots, irons; for her
services to England, irony ?
* * * *
Proud England ! heiress of empire, nursing her massed
SHE HAD PROVED HIM.
MAIDEN LADY (in tram, to young lady on her
right): “ Excuse me—but are you going far?"
Y. L. : “No, not far ; but why?"
M.L. (in a whisper): “Well, I don’t like you
being left alone with that horrid-looking man.’
Y. L.: “ Billy, we better git out —the ole girl’s
a-frightened of yer ”
wealth of factory and njart, counting her ships on every
sea, flaunting her flag in every port: sad Ireland 1 outcast
of nations, her harp broken and her garb a widow’s weeds,
a desolate figure facing the wild Atlantic, and stretching
anguished arms across the water to her expatriated sons :
what a contrast 1 England, a queen’s throne ; Ireland,
her footstool: England, “ the home of freedom” 1 Ireland,
the refuge of tyranny—her enterprise thwarted, her
industry destroyed, her religion contemned and punished
by her potent neighbor : what a contrast! England, con-
queror by the sword ; Ireland, the conquered—the ruin of
her liberties consummated by bribery : arrogance and
dependence, prosperity and stagnation, the pride of
success and the bitterness of despair—zenith and nadir pf
national fortunes side by side : what a contrast!
* * • *
And the pikes of Ireland are now the defences of Eng-
land ; Irish regiments are sent in the van of battle, under
the British flag, to attack the burghers of the Transvaal;
Irish blood is recklessly shed to extend the British em-
pire in Africa! What mocking smiles curl the lips of the
World-Spirit, watching! That the freedom of those
little Dutch republics should be overthrown for Britain
by the hired soldiers of Ireland ! Ireland ! still bleed-
ing from the English wound ; with the collar and chains
of the English captor still round her neck and limbs—
surely this is the utmost depth of satire which the
Human Comedy can offer.
* » •
But Iceland gets her reward—to the last doit and
tittle of her earning. Queen Victoria deigns for the
second time in her long reign to consecrate Irish turf
with her footstep. Glorious privilege! benefaction queenly
indeed ! More—and the splendor of the bopn may well
dazzle Irish eyes—she, Queen of Great Britain and Ire-
land, Empress of India, Defender of the Faith, whose hand
holds the orb, sign of her power over this world, beneath
the cross, token of her prerogative in the next—she, the
Illustrious, the Exalted, is serenely pleased, in the
ninth decade of her life, to acknowledge the Irish valor
shown in her service by permitting the Irish soldier to don
the national shamrock on his national holiday ! Queen
Victoria tolerates the shamrock. Honor unparalleled!
favor infinite 1 Yet she grants it freely and graciously,.as
becomes her noble lineage—she, the Fountain of honor
and favor—as if her mere permission to die for Her Flag,
Her Empire, Herself, were not hopor and favor far in ex-
cess of any Irish desert!
» • • *
Blessed power of princes and rulers, to confer All in the
guise of Nothing, and to pay with a simple sentiment for
blood which would otherwise be priceless ! For mark the
admirable proportion of bounty to merit! Removal of
Irish religious disabilities—protection of Irish trade—
Home Rule for Ireland—such gifts, from England, would
be indeed a base material return for Irish lives lost ip
England’s service. The exchange would smack of the huck-
ster shopkeeper, pawnbroker. But that, when Irish
soldiers are slain, Queen Victoria should visit Dublin—
how royally adequate 1 That, when her arms triumph by
the courage nourished on Irish soil, Queen Victoria should
permit the shamrock to exist—how historically suitable !
Never, henceforth, can an Irish emigrant draw his last
breath of Irish air without remembering that it is an at-
mosphere which has been twice breathed by Queen Vic-
toria, and taking the memory in full quittance for his
exile. Never, henceforth, can Famine dig an Irish grave
w-ithout the mourners’ grief being calmed by the thought
that the shamrock in the fresh-turned sod has received
Queen Victoria’s notice and approval. Yes ; the Irish
assailants of freedom in the Transvaal, on behalf of Eng-
land, have won for their country a reward fully befitting
their deed.
* • * • *
I f And, as if Queen Victoria’s royal largesse were not a
far more than sufficient equivalent for Irish blood, comes
Lord Salisbury, the haughty head of the House of Cecil
and the English Tories, Grand Master of the Primrose
League, to add his meed of recognition of the Irish ser-
vice to England. The lesson of the Transvaal, he
told the assembled Primrose Knights and Dames,
should be learnt by heart for Ireland’s sake. Let
them see the result of giving Home Rule to the
Transvaal, and beware of restoring Irish liberties—let
them beware ! Round about the Modder and the Tugela
river, in many a hasty grave—all along the road of English
conquest in Africa—lie the bones of Irishmen who fell
with the foremost in the endeavor to rivet the English
bonds upon a little nation of Dutch freemen. And this
is their surpassing reward England’s Prime Minister
declares that the war which cost their lives should teach
England to rivet her bonds more firmly upon Ireland!
What news for Emmet and Curran, for Grattan and Davis
and Mitciiel, meeting their African dead in the Shades !
The Boers have mastered the art of brew-
ing their national temperance drink, and they
show no toleration for “swipes.” One of the
officers on duty at Capetown railway-station when
Cronje arrived wrote to Tay Pay O’Connor, in
London : “ Cronje was asked if he would like any
refreshment, whereupon he promptly demanded
champagne. He got coffee and bread-and-butter,
as provided by Logan’s refreshment-contract.
They have repeated to Logan his opinion of the
coffee. Logan is more loyal than ever ! ”


[Forecast for at) iQdcfioit* Period.]
Pro ip MARK FOY’S OBSERVATORY,
OXFORD STREET.
BGsiOSSs * aod Clear” geoerally, tboGgb
“Stornjy” at certaio tinjeS of tbc year.
Tbc preseDt iodicatioo poiots to diStGrbaDC€
“AGtGipp FaSbiooS.”
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
More desperate sieges await Baden-Powell.
Five-hundred pretty maidens are blushing in am-
bush at Capetown to capture and marry him,
whilst several thousands will summon the dashing
Colonel to surrender on his arrival in London.
And every member of these lovely brigades will be
wearing the P.D. corset of a blameless figure.
Will the long-time hungry warrior and ever-faith-
ful admirer of the female form in its P.D. setting,
be able to hold out against such odds.**
In Adelaide, ex-politician J. C. F. John-
son sent an ancient moke named Bugler round the
province to be auctioned in aid of the Bushmen’s
Contingent Fund, and £2500 was realised by the
scheme. But now, when some respectable trades-
man, wanting a horse, bids £l2 at the real auction
and gets the animal, there are letters in the papers
appealing for money to buy him back and present
him. (alive] to the Zoo; and the “great demo-
cratic ” daily of the place appeals for subscriptions
to keep him in “ dainties ” for the rest of his life.
And this, ye gods! is gravely referred to as “a
patriotic movement.”
Simplest—Most Durable —Best.
n
w*
»»
5_ MACHINES
Write tor our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
mn
J. W. JOHNSTON & GO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
61,036 TEAS haTe w ° E< » uai -
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 15, 1900.
My Deak Myee,—
The one feature that characterises everything
that gathers people together now-a-days is posi-
tively, preponderance of Woman. Petticoat and
froufrou on the stairs. Shoulders, scrags, undula-
tions of heavy white flesh in the theatres. Billows
of lace; billows of chiffon, invented by Worth—
in Heaven—for the resurrection and life of every
dead gown, or worn-out opera-mantle. And here
and there, rising out of the sea as it were, one
little black rock with a big white speck on it—a
man, in a black suit, with a white shirt front.
How the billows beat! Chiffon and lace, how they
surge round him and over him! Verily, the
theatre party that can scrape up three men for
twelve women keeps the eye of the whole hungry
houseful of feminines fixed, in a furtive painful
stare that really threatens to turn the head of our
Johnnies whose collars won’t interfere with the
operation.
Naturally, nobody has dared to give a ball yet.
There is one on the tapis though, and, naturally,
men are getting that one up. The University,
plucking up, and bracing itself behind the assump-
tion that the cropped and spectacled girl-grads,
might easily be mistaken for men, have fixed up
their annual ball. It comes off in Paddington
Town Hall on 28th June, under top-loftiest pat-
ronage. No imagination is needed to predict that
this will be about the most brilliant hop of an
utterly unhopping year. Ball-giving is one thing
the Alma Mater does teach its infants to carry out
successfully.
Speaking of men, a new one, of superlative
breed and looks, has arrived in Sydney. His
name is Hon. Charles Harris, of Malmesbury
blood, and he has come along with the Ladies
Mary Lygon and Susan Gilmour on a long visit to
our Govt. House. In fact, he is going to play
assistant-secretary to Wilfrid Smith, and help him
send out—well, I hardly know what.
When a Gov. goes away into the backblocks he
collects experiences. Also, the backblocks collect
experiences. A case, in which the Hush got the
funniest collection, was so graphically described
r? T 1? ,^ e other day that I must pass it on.
Couldn t I see the picture ? It was Lord—but
that is telling. Anyway, he and his aide went to
dinner on a way back station. Domestic arrange-
ments at this station had their limitations just
then, and the squatter and his wife decided that
they wouldn’t make any “ fuss.” They never did
have waiting-at-table. They wouldn’t have wait-
mg-at-table now. His Ex. would see them as
they were ; with a little extra polish on, of course.
So they sat down to dinner, six of them. The
Gov. and his aide, the squatter and his wife, the
squatter’s two daughters. And they had no wait-
mg-at-table. But “passing the plates” was a
terrible trap to the Gov. and that aide. In they
tumbled, headlong. Sometimes they passed their
own plates on round the table, sometimes they
kept other At last they thought they
had grasped the situation, and started passing up
“on their own.” They passed up their plates for
butter. Thej passed them up for jam. They
passed them up for fruit. They passed them up
for cheese. “ Will you have a little pepper with
your melon?” Up went his Ex.’s plate. On
the slightest provocation, they passed their
plates, and re-passed their plates. The dinner
resolved itself into a wild jumping, and jerking
and hurrying and scurrying of plates, backwards
and forwards, round and round the table. The
Gov. and his aide aged visibly, in their anxiety to
do the right and bushy thing. The squatter’s
daughters crammed bread down their throats
in place of handkerchiefs. The squatter’s wife
kept driving out an invisible dog. The squatter
kept hurting his bad toe against the leg of the
table. What the plates thought of it never trans-
pired. But His Ex. was seen to wipe his brow
ere he lit his cigar that evening. And, to alter
the words of a song (and remove suspicion from an
entirely innocent quarter), they’re both in England
now.
Apropos of table manners, a drab-faced travel-
ling youth dropped in for dinner at a station
lately and made himself at home by telling his
hostess how “ This ’ere ’orse-radish ain’t fit for no
blanky ’orse to eat.”
Such absurd affability rather reminds me of the
parson who comes to dinner on Sunday, unin-
vited. When the covers are lifted he sees that
the beef smokes and a grey steam arises from pota-
toes and peas. He rises, too. His steam gets up
with him. In a genial, visiting tone that comes
quite natural to parsons he remarks how “The
curse of God rests on that beef, and on those peas
and those potatoes.” By way of a little extra
merry conversation, he tells the lady of the house,
“ I am scawndalised to see your hoosehold cooks
on the Sawbath.” And then, overcome with his
own delightful manner, he accuses his host of
failing to bring his family up to God. Which, if
he means cold roast beef, is certainly the newest
nomenclature, is it not.
Have you heard of the new engagement ? Miss
Burdekin, the pretty, doll-like, eldest unmarried
daughter of the late Sydney Burdekin, and Mr.
Alec. Hay, of Berry, one of ‘ our eligibles.’
The other exciting matrimonial event of the
wet\ was a wedding that broke in half suddenly.
Two\undred guests received two hundred letters
on the morning of the ceremony announcing a
postponement. There wasn’t going to be any
wedding that day. The bride was suddenly taken
to Tasmania, the bridegroom walks the town like a
man in a tranee. Bride declares she doesn’t know
why it was broken off. Bridegroom declares
he doesn’t know either. Brothers are said to be
at the bottom of the breakage, but the guests who
are now folding up their sheeny wedding gar-
ments don’t look happy. b 6
Madame Soldene’s sudden disappearance is in
everybody’s mouth. (By the way, that’s an awk-
ward sentence. You won’t like it if you take it
literally.) The genial Emily got back to Sydney
j e l a year ™ London, stayed a fortnight, and
suddeniy went off ’Ome again by the same boat,
the Ortona. I hear on good authority that the
plague scare frightened her out of the place.
The bubonic rat whose ambition it is to infect
the inmates of Govt. House will have its oppor-
tunities curtailed now that a rat-proof fence en-
circles the sacred precincts of Vice-Royalty. The
idea is likely to be taken up by Sydney’s Noblest who
will hermetically seal themselves in their dwellings
at Potts Point, while the dwellers in terraces
might erect a rat-proof covering on the plan af an
enlarged meat-safe. The sixpence-a-night dosser
will have to be content with a portable covering
on wheels which he could hitch over himself like
a hen-coop when he retired to roost. Ladies will
probably take up the lately-invented antiseptic
anklet. The Chinese dame owes her “golden
hlies ’ to the olub-foot of an old-time Empress.
Similarly in ages to come the antiquarian will dis-
cover the origin of anklet-wearing in the Great
Plague of 1900, which decimated the city and
swept away hundreds per day (by special train to
the Blue Mountains). By the way it is not the
first time that anklets have been used in the
history of N.S.W., but the former ornaments were
of heavier make and had bracelets to match.
Society has received its second shock over the
plague. A beautiful young girl, living in an
elegant home in Woollahra. has fallen victim to
the scourge.
The remark of a late V.R. Private Secretary,
in a province that shall be nameless, still rankles.
An amiable Society woman asked him confiden-
tially : “But tell me, how was it that the de
Veres were not asked?” He looked extremely
surprised. “Surely a lot of old people like that
don’t want to go to dances ! ” said he, innocently.
r l hat’s the worst of being a Vere de Sydney,
thin, hungry, distant, and to a fair, full-blooded
young man— old 1
The “Tyranny of Tears” is the play we all know
all about. Not from life. Not at all. The woman
who bursts into tears whenever she does not get
her own way is a being I, for one, can honestly
and solemnly, and very, very emphatically say I
have never met. In short, she does not exist.
How do we know all about her then ? We have
all read about her in novels, dear old novels,
written by Men. That was before Women used
to write. Please observe that you never come
across the little wet handkerchief in a Woman’s
novel.
A woman who wants her own way nowadays
just gets it. She does not cry, or sulk, or go
home to mother, or cut the buttons off his shirts
(a male novelist invented that), or go to bed, like
Balzac’s father, and stay there 20 years, and one
day get up and go on as if she had never been to
bed at all. Nothing so troublesome, so enervat-
ing, so nasty, so uncivilised, so old-fashioned. She
just says, “ I want my own way.” And takes it.
That’s where Haddon Chambers is out in his
psychology.' The dates are wrong, a hundred
years astray. A hundred years ago women had
only one weapon to fight the world with. The
name of their gun was Tears. Now they have an
armoury, and an arsenal. In a word, there’s the
Woman’s Movement.
And, the funny part of it is man prefers the old
gun (that was loaded) to the deadly new one.
That’s where Haddon Chambers is out again.
Our own Brough goes through a horrible trans-
formation in the “Tyranny.” It isn’t only that
he’s a novelist. Worse. He is pale, and fat, and
unhealthy, and looks as if he had been brought up
on tea. And he wears whiskers, and a fearful
little coat and curly rough hair. It makes you
feel you never want to read a novel again for fear
Brough—otherwise Clement Parbury—might have
written it.
The frocking is ever so charming. Mrs. Brough
and Grace Noble have it all tneir own way,
especially the latter, Parbury’s wife. Mrs.
Brough, as a typewriter, looks her best in red-gold
curly hair, a powder-blue frock with white cuffs
and collar, and vivid blue lining. Miss Noble
wears a sweet yellow crepe gown, tucked round
the skirt, with violets at her breast. She
also airs a pretty dinner frock of white mixed
silk, box-pleated downwards from the waist, and
breaking out about the feet. Another taking
dress is her pale-tan mousseline de soie, with
many little frills edged with tiny violet ribbon. A
violet hat tops this, and everyone was sorry on
Monday to see a flounce ripped off by an unman-
ageable door.
At one time and another the most absurd yarns
have been told of Lady Clinton Hope’s theatrical
experiences in Australia. A dozen years ago, or
more, Frank Clark, inflated with the success of
his “Muldoon’s Picnic” and Silk Stockings
Variety Co. at the little Victoria Hall, Mel-
bourne, brought from Yankeeland an “All Star
C 0.,” which opened at Melbourne Opera House.
The performance consisted solely of “turns,” with
no first part, and Miss May Yohe, the female
baritone, was one of the turns. Miss Yohe is
remembered as a “ladylike young person” in a
long Bernhardtesque skirt, and Australia never
even thought of her in tights until she appeared
as a “principal boy” in some illustrated papers
from London.
A certain widower with several children is about
to marry a widow, who, besides her good looks and
pretty ways, has also a quiver-full. The other-
night the two families were discussing wedding
arrangements when Ivan, aged 11,. remarked to
his step-mother elect: “ You’ve already got about
a hundred children, yet you are only just getting
married. People will wonder how you’ve man-
aged it.”
Rudyard Kipling wrote a letter for a soldier
whose right hand had been amputated, and the
incident has begun its journey round the world,
stopping at all stations, and back again. A chim-
panzee would have done so much, if he could, for
another ape, but the act, according to the para-
grapher, “ shows Mr. Kipling’s personal sym-
pathy with the wounded.” Also, “the letter
which was received by the mutilated man’s mother
is greatly prized by her.” Very likely. If her
sense of humor equals that of the paragraph person
she would have replied to her son that Kipling’s
fist on paper more than compensated for the burial
of his.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ Lady Madden’s suggestion of a Floral set of
Lancers at St. Vincent’s Hospital Ball (June 6th.)
was duly adopted. Sets of “best people” are
being arranged to represent the four seasons of the
year, with Night and Hay to bring up the rear.
Hebuting dancers are also to have a set to them-
selves, and earn the distinction of being pump-
handled by the Acting Governess afterwards.
The Sisters of Charity who run St. Vincent’s need
no hints in diplomacy. They get all the Pro-
testant power they can on the war-path, and rely
upon the faithful of their own creed to swell the
coffers. It is marvellous how much of the world
these good souls see from over their garden wall,
and how cleverly they work the ropes.
“ Rinking is to get another chance as a pastime
for Melbourne’s naicest. A new club, with Lady
Widow Janet for president, Mrs. Hodges hon.
secretary, and Lord Dick as treasurer, started its
wild career on castors at the old South Yarra Rink
one night last week. The weather behaved
abominably, but all the same his lordship—the
poor dear treasurer—sat in a draught near the
doorway and acted as money-taker in honor of the
occasion. Under the circumstances such conduct
was almost noble.
“Recently, when that dainty little singer was
to have been married at Williamstown, the
bridegroom, whose occupation leads him to go down
to the sea in ships, was still rocking in the cradle
of the deep at the moment when he was due at
the altar. As the bride and her maids were
decked for the sacrifice, the feast spread, the
guests assembled, and the musicians engaged, the
reception went on swimmingly without the
absentee. Next day, when the involuntary
laggard-in-love readied port, that mere detail—
the marriage ceremony—-was quietly gone through
with.
“Of course it was unavoidable in this case, but
I am afraid this single-harness wedding (even
though ‘ the grey mare be the better horse ’ in
nine cases out of ten) has established a dangerous
precedent. Men, cowards that they are, always
have writhed under the fierce light that beats upon
orange-blossom, and, now that the thin edge of the
wedge has been introduced, we’ll find ’em shuffling
at the tag-end just in time for bare essentials.
“But a weak-kneed bridegroom might do even
worse than shirk the starting-point. There’s a
S ass-widow in Melbourne, a popular, estimable
ly, whose long-ago bridegroom left her between
two bites of bridal-cake to consult a time-table,
and never came back. Some people argue that he
Sist have crept into a spring-lock chest for fun,
e ‘ Ginevra,’ and got fastened down. Such was
not the case, however.
“Re weddings. There was a big missionary
gathering at Kew (Melb.) t’other week, when the
only daughter of Missionary Paton, the New
Hebridean veteran, married Mr. Gillan, a mission-
ary worker in the South Seas. The bride-
groom, whose first wife is buried in the Islands,
is unanimously regarded as having secured ‘ a
cornerstone beautifully polished,’so to speak, of
the missionary fabric. The bride was born in the
mission field and knows all its ins and outs, as her
brothers follow their fine old father’s footsteps in
the Isles of the Pacific. She has travelled and
seen the world, but her heart apparently remains
true to the dusky friends of her youth. Her
father, among missionaries, is looked upon as a
Judge in Israel. Not only has he run all sorts of
risks, cannibalistic and other, in his pioneering
work, but he has gathered in thousands of pounds
for ‘ the Cause.’ Mrs. Paton has earned a good
deal of money by her pen, and is as graceful and
witty as if she had not shared in missionary hard-
ships, nursed her husband and children through
illnesses without a white person within hundreds
of miles, and seen some of her little ones laid in
improvised coffins, fitted up for them by her own
hands.
“ An old Melb. magnate aged 70, and his bride
aged 32, departed for Europe last week per mail-
boat. The lady was advised to avoid observation
by calling him “pa” which she probably will do.
“ Some of our fighting boys only come to be
death-or-glory “Bushmen” after great tribulation.
A draper of scribe’s acquaintance was wild to go
forth to war with the last contingent of ‘ men from
Snowy River.’ The doctors pronounced him
‘sound but soft,’ and when he confessed his occu-
pation, shoved him back to his haberdashery with
a sneer. Home he went, and after a week’s re-
hearsal, presented himself again as a swarthy,
swearful swaggie. This time he not only passed
flying, but heard himself chuckled over by the ex-
perts as ‘ a tough case, good for wear,’ ‘ a rough
diamond,’ and ‘a real old fighting kangaroo.’
“ Melbourne has heard nothing more of the
proposed Johnnie Aitkens Brigade for gentlemanly
scouting in South Africa. The scheme was
scouted out of existence seemingly, or perhaps
the would-be Johnnies took fright at the account
■of how that gilded yeoman the Duke of Marl-
borough, fixed himself up for warfare. The Dook
went off to the ‘Front’ with four chargers and
four sumpter horses, likewise a light Cape cart
and a private baggage waggon. Coat-of-arms
painted on cart and waggon. Two body servants
follow him to battle; each mounted on one of the
•extra gee-gees, and leading another, so that his-
Nibs may have, five horses shot under him before
he is reduced to the beastly necessity of fighting
•on foot. Two grooms also are included in the
Marlborough outfit. They will presumably stay in
camp to look after the three remaining chargers
whilst their liege lord is out on the Boer track.
What a picnic !
“ Apropos of that stage morality discussion.
Three times in as many Melbourne theatres I have
heard the wives of three leading men complaining
aloud and bitterly of Alonzo’s shocking -goings-on
with the leading lady, and his shameful neglect of
herself. One of the wives visited one particular
theatre regularly, and watched hubby making
stage love to her rival, keeping up a running
comment on his words and actions that advertised
her own woe and put the lovely hero away with
half the adorers in the circle,
“ A ‘well-known shoplifter’ of the fair sex was
up at Melb. City Court last week on the simple
little charge of ‘shaking’ a parasol from a hall-
stand in a private house. The hall door was open
seemingly, so the hardened purloiner just stepped
inside and exchanged her own battered gamp for
the newer article. A sentence of three months for
such a mild transaction nearly took her breath
away. She could barely gasp ‘Well, so help
me ! ’
“ Dr. Hopkins, whose friends mourn his death
in the Transvaal, was the son of a local Independ-
ent parson. The clever, plucky surgeon leaves a
widow, who all along found it impossible to recon-
cile herself to her husband’s departure for Africa,
though she’s strong-minded enough—having before
marriage successfully filled the post of hospital
matron. Dr. Hopkins came of an eager, strenuous
clan—a typical family-group such as one learns by
experience to recognise as cradled under the roof-
tree of a brainy Dissenting preacher. Another of
the brothers, a rising lawyer, is- pronounced by
fair friends ‘ the image of Napoleon in his youth.’
Which recalls that there is in Australia a beautiful
girl who is a direct descendant of the little Corporal
whom she facially much resembles.
“ Our ‘ plague-inspector,’ glazier by trade, has
for landlord a householder in a large way, who, ’tis
said,. has never favored his tenant with an order
for so much as a penn’orth of window-pane. Lately
the injured putty-artist visited, in his inspectorial
capacity, his landlord’s private premises, and more
in sorrow than anger, so he says, brought about a
smart fineon the score of a dirty yard. The landlord
promptly retaliated by raising the inspector’s
rent, and now our suburb is divided against itself
on the question.
“ Has anyone noticed the ohange that has come
over nurses’ outdoor uniforms ? At one time they
were so unbecoming that one wondered a nurse
ever put her nose outside a hospital, but nowa-
days they are the smartest, daintiest affairs. One
handsome nurse wears dove grey, and looks the
veriest saint. Another (who must have private
means to pay for so much laundrying) appears all
in white. Another in a beautiful shade of green.
What wonder that the masculine heart flutters at
an apparition so fresh, so pure, so neat—and, of
course, so divinely unselfish !
“ Talking of nurses, one told me a story the
other day. A child had died in hospital, and its
friends bought for it a white coffin trimmed with
colored artificial flowers. The corpse was dressed
in a silk frock, muoh betrimmed, with kid gloves
on its hands, silk stockings and kid boots 1
“ The best, and perhaps most humorous, imita-
tion of Brassey was that of the late J. F. Edgar,
who was a capital mimic. A record of it exists on
a phonographic cylinder in the possession, writer
believes, of John M'Whae, chairman of the Stock
Exchange. The little speech is a burlesque of an
address of the Old Man of the Sea, when he hadn’t
quite made up his mind whether to subscribe to
an institution or not, and was hum-ha-ing it over ;
in the end, of course, nothing is ‘ presented ’ but
the thanks of the community. But Edgar used to
say ‘ Brassey is not so bad as people make out.
He even gave me something once. ‘ What was
that?’ people would naturally ask. ‘The ear-
ache,’ was Edgar’s reply. ‘He talked to me one
morning for a solid hour, at Government House,
about the navy.’
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.


Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day,
<» £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
Dr. Gresswell, President of Victorian
Board of Health : “ There is no
danger in coming to Sydney at
the present time. Of course, it
depends a great deal where the
visitors go. To come to a place
like The Australia Hotel is to run
no risk at all.”
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Premier Life Insurance Company of the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
CONSOLIDATED BE VENUE ACCOUNT
Of the Company, commencing at day of organisation, February Ist, 1843, and ending December 31st, 1899.
Income.
Premiums earned ... ...
Considerations for Annuities
granted
Interests, Dividends and Rents
Mortuary Bond Deposits
Profit and Loss, net ... _
£ s. d.
147,491,564 17 10
3,751,119 19 7
41,593,197 5 7
55,388 1 10
4,917,343 4 8
£197,808,613 9 6
Note. —In above Statement the
Outgo.
Claims incurred under Policies
(no re-insurances): —
Losses by Death
Matured Endowments ...
Surrenders
Annuities
Cash Bonuses to Policy-
holders
Commissions and Expenses of
Management, including Taxes
Amount of Insurance Funds on
December 31st, 1899
£ s. d.
45,477,842 6 9
9,642,438 3 7
28,929,879 8 4
1,315,040 17 5
20,548,135 2 7
30,327,224 15 9
61,568,052 15 1
£197,808,613 9 6
pound sterling is taken at $4.87.
For full information regarding Policies apply at any of the Company’s Offices.
AUBTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
William Williams, whose portrait, with
those of his daughter, grandson and a great grand-
child, appear in this issue, lives at Adelong,
N.S.W., and attained his hundredth birthday on
May 3rd. He is a native of North Wales, has
been in Australia since 1826, and if he is alive on
Jan. Ist next will have had the unique experience
of having lived in the 18th, 19th, and 20th
centuries. He claims to have discovered gold
near Bathurst in 1830, and, however that may be,
he “struck it rich” at the Turon, and his sobriquet
of “ Old Gold Dust ” has stuck to him for half a
century. His acquired wealth from mining
amounted to £60,000. His chances of putting up
a still bigger score against the bowling of Father
Time are remarkably good, as he is active enough
to hobble about his garden with the help of a stick,
and he will be able to read this paragraph without
the aid of glasses.
The plague has had its advantages for some
people, though not for most. The Sydney Safe Deposit,
for instance, has had a great accession of business during
the last few months, consequent on persons having de-
cided to prepare for the worst by placing their papers,
&c., in safety. The fear is that when a house is quaran-
tined valuables may go astray. It is well to be on the
safe side, and the Safe Deposit affords perfect protection
against either fire or burglars. It is well worth a visit,
anyway. The Deposit is situated in Ash-street, near to
Paling and Co’s.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
Lorimer’s
Compound Syrup of Hypophosphites.
. . Beware of Imitations . .
Sole Agent for N.S.W. :
0. E. Newman, King-st., Sydney.
Aymard’s Milk Sterilisers
to arrive shortly.
er A Revolution in Sterilisers.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The people of N.S. Wales may depend
upon Premier Lyne looking after the Plague. It
has got into the very short street in which he him-
self resides.
Some men have all the luck. It is stated
that Humphrey Oxenham got—hold your breath !
—£20,000 for his charming house and grounds
opposite Randwick racecourse.
Silth, the 14-year-old Port Melbourne boy
who won the Vic. Eight Hour £lOOO lottery-prize,
the other day, earned the shilling he invested by
selling dead rats to the local corporation.
BUBONIG PLAGUE (to the Sydney aldermen): “My hearty thanks for the excellent
quarters you have given me. Were all cities as thoughtful, I would no
longer have to rove, but could settle down comfortably.”
Donald MacDonald, of Ladysmith and the
Argus, could never be persuaded to witness an
execution at Melb. gaol, but lie now says that,
after witnessing the effects of shell-fire, he can
stand anything.
Says a Victorian Oppositionist: “Ten
years ago I advertised for an office-boy, at 10s. a
week, and was answered by a youngster who
seemed smart enough, but looked too much like a
Spanish priest for my fancy. To-day, my rejected
oflice-boy faces me as a Minister of the Crown.”
Died in Bendigo Joel Horwood, who
founded Horwood’s foundry, known wherever
mining machinery is known in Australia. He
was a plucky call-payer, too —no atmosphere
breeds more of them than Bendigo’s. E. J. Hor-
wood, Broken Hill manager of the Broken Hill
Prop., is a son.
The will of the late Robert Chirnside,
formerly of Carranballac (Vic.), was proved last
week at £335,000, equally divided between real and
personal estate. No wonder that any new and
unknown “Gussie” who throws his money about
at a Melbourne bar is always addressed as “ Mr.
Chirnside ? ” by the enquiring Hebe.
Very few people know that the late Presi-
dent Ayers, of S.A. Leg. .Council, was a Hebrew
ana that his father’s name was Aarons. The latter
was a fiddler in the early days of the province,
but had luck enough to get into the Burra Copper
Mining Cos., out of which he made a fortune.
Sydney Catholic .Press, which, as the
Sydney D.T. religious .editor remarks, “has a
religious classification style of its own,” thus speci-
fies the religious persuasions of the present
N.S.W. Government: —“Mr. Lyne and Mr. See
(Anglicans), Mr. Fegan (a Wesleyan local
preacher), Mr. Perry (an Orangeman), Mr.
Hassall and Mr. Wood (Protestants).”
A. courteous letter from Melbourne :
Dear Bulletin.— One of your wise men once said there
were three types of then hearing the name, “William.”
First, the stern, hard business man, who went through
life known to everybody as William So-and-So ; secondly,
the genial “ bloke ” who answered always to the name of
“ Billy ” ; and, lastly, the joyous ass invariably called
“ Willy.” Wherefore I rise to protest against anyone re-
ferring to the Victorian P.M.U. as “Billy’’Watt! Watt
—Watt Rot! —has never been known by any other name
but “ Willy,” and that is the name Nature intended him
to wear. lie is the A.N.A. personified—a young man
with a glib tongue and a swollen head, who jumped from
a humble clerical position to a Ministerial portfolio in two
years, and who backed down from his Boer sympathies
with the speed of a Carbine when the storm was coming.
Don’t waste sympathy on Watt —pray rather that Mrs.
Jardine had been armed with a cat of scorpions.
The late manager Alfred Priestley’s ex-
planation of the failure of his Federal Bank was
curious. He said it was due to “the weeping
away of deposits.” Those who did not “weep
away ” their money wept because they didn’t.
“ Brother Alec.” being about to give up
the civic chair of Perth, W. G. Brookman, of
expensive-bed-curtain fame, aspires to the vacant
seat. What a whirligig ! Eight years ago W. G.
Brookman wasn’t buying golden bedroom-curtain
poles set with diamonds.
The present war is inflicting hideous
injustices upon unfortunate babes. Scores of them
are being called after the British Generals and
places in S’Africa. One wretched little morsel of
Sydney humanity has now been christened
Modderina Belmontina Metbuena Jones.
There was
jitt.le fuss
about the land-
ing of some of
the early Gov-
ernors. When
S. A. Go v.
Gawler, land-
ed a bullock-
waggon e r,
Dick Day,
went up and
asked him if
he wanted his
luggage carted
to town. Gaw-
ler said he did,
if there was
anybody t o
cart it. Day
took on the
job, and Gaw-
ler, relieved of
his carpet-
bags, looked
for somebody
to whom lie
could mention
that lie had
arrived. Day,
the man with
the bullock-
cart, died only
on March 31.
He was one
of the oldest
hands left; his
first hut was
where the
Adelaide gaol now stands.
Four Melbourne bank-managers of the
panic period are now dead :—Grqpnluw, of the
Colonial; Colin Longmuir, of the City of Mel-
bourne ; Priestley, of the Federal; and Frank
Grey Smith, of the National. One— Finlayson, of
the Union Bank—has retired. There are left:
John Sawers, of the Australasia; J. I). Law, of
the Bank of Victoria; Guthrie, of the London
Bank ; Gyles Turner, of the Commercial; and
Murchison, of the Bank of N.S. W.
Indisposed Premier Lyne’s suggested
Cabinet meeting at his private house last week
was not the unusual thing some critics supposed.
N.S.W. Premiers have frequently held' such
meetings in their private houses, and sometimes
in the house of a colleague. Parkes held numerous
meetings of the kind in his Balmain house during
the great strike, when alleged patriotism produced
special constables as it now produces Boer-baiters.
C. H. Buzacott, M.L.C. (Q.) lately
travelling through western N.S.W., with a far-
away Federal look in his eye, landed in Sydney
48 years ago and started “comping” in S.M.
Herald office ; thence he went to Parkes's
Emigre, and later on, with a few cases
of type, shot boldly into Queensland and
turned out his own paper, Maryborough
Chronicle. Those who can picture Mary-
borough 40 years ago will appreciate
the printer’s courage at that date. Buza-
cott went into several journalistic ventures
afterwards, ending up as managing-director
of Brisbane Courier and Queenslander.
He entered Parliament in ’73, but active
politics and journalism didn’t run well
together, and for a time he had to let
both go. In early life he was a fervid
Radical ; now his prime characteristic
is “ moderation in everything.” Hois
65 years of age.
A Melb. pressman prides himself
on being the only individual in his pro-
vince who has had his boots blacked
by an Anglican Bishop. He was
visiting the Melanesian mission
station at Norfolk Island, and
Bishop Selwyn the younger ex-
plained to him that the work was
shared by all, there being no ser-
vants. Next morning the quill-
driver set about blacking his boots, when
the Bishop insisted on saving him the trouble.
There was a struggle for the brushes in which
the ho3t prevailed.
After the official proposal to create a
new Imperial Court of Appeal, with a paid
Australian head as one of its six members,
can any one wonder that Baronet Way (S.A.
Chief Justice) is against any undue exaltation of
the Federal High Court? He stands, or thinks
he does, a good chance of being the Australian
representative as he is already a P.C. Also, he
has privately circulated in London a pamphlet
emphasising his view of the situation.
“ P.”: Partly through The Bulle-
tin, and partly otherwise, S. Australia
had come to regard Premier Fred. Holder
as a long, thin person who, when not
juggling with the province’s figures,
keeps his hand in by balancing Jonah
and his whale on the edge of the science-
book which he used to teach out of in
day-school; also as a person beloved by
the W.C.T.A. for looking upon strong
drink with the great shudder of a blame-
less life. South Australia was, therefore,
too shocked for words when it read lately
that Fred. Holder had come before the
city P.M. with a sad confession de-
nouncing himself as a person who drank
the Cursed Stuff and wasted his sub-
stance in riotous beer and crayfish, and
in consequence sought an order compelling
himself to pay over all his “screw” to
his wife. The P.M., the report said, re-
monstrated—he ought not to carry his
self-abnegation so far. But Mr. Holder
was too penitent to keep back even three-
pence—his wife, he added, was a better
treasurer than he. That fine spirit led the
South Australian saints to almost forgive
the sinner, so that Holder might still have
been safe—if he had been the Premier.
As it happened, another paper came
along just then stating that the penitent
sinner’s full name was Frederick
George, and the Premier’s is Frederick
William. And that spoilt everything.
But the man got his order, nevertheless
—under the Married Women’s Protec-
tion Act, one of the measures passed
when Kingston was at his zenith.
A candidate for N.S.W. Parlia-
ment had called a meeting at a mining
township and had brought his chairman
with him. One of the audience pro-
tested against an exotic chairman, and
said that if they elected a local man they
could be sure of being allowed fully to
exercise their rights as electors. The
speaker had a tine flow of language, and
occupied about three-quarters of an
hour, and, according to arrangement,
the seconder took up about the same time.
They had their way, and the new chairman, after
thanking them at great length for the honor they
had done him, declared the meeting closed on
account of the lateness of the hour ! Whereupon
the candidate wept bitterly.
The service of a writ for libel claiming
€2000 from Rev. Dill Macky as Moderator of
N.H.W. Presbyterian Assembly created loud
rattling of dry bones, and had the case gone into
court a new defence of privilege would have been
set up. Conciliation, however, prevailed, law
proceedings were cancelled, and plaintiff and de-
fendant are again lambs with but a single baa.
The story goes that, as Queen Victoria
can’t spare her long-haired son-in-law, the bard
Lome, the Australian Governor-Generalship is to
be conferred on the Earl of Selborne —of whom
9,991) out of ever) - 10,000 Australians have never
even heard. He is a son of his father, the great
lawyer, and a son-in-law of the present British
Premier, and he is at present a glorified clerk :
he occupies the position of Parliamentary Secre-
tary for the Colonies.
There are marble busts of Graham Berry
and Duncan Gillies in the Victorian Agent-
General’s office in London. Recent visitors re-
port that the London atmosphere has turned them
nearly black, and callers at the
office in Victoria-street take them
for statues of aboriginal Austra-
lian gliiefs.
“ LENT”
FATHER MAO : “ And how's O'Brien? ”
RILEY: “ Shure, Father, he's bi'n drunk this six
weeks at Anderson’s pub., an' ate nothin' .”
FATHER: “ Arrah I thin he's kipt Lint well, at
all wints .”
TRUE TO
NATURE.
“ I say. Dauber,
why don't you get
soma salt-water in
a bottle? Then,
you could get the
proper color for
your picture from
it”
When ex-Pre-
mier Munro was in
opposition in the
Assembly (Vic.) to
M.Culloch’s “iron-
nand” Ministry, he
complained that
the chief of the administration was as tricky as
the Dodge of Venice. And he meant no pun
either.
Nobody has looked for pathos in the fact
that manager Frank Grey Smith died but a few
hours previous to the National Bank meeting
whereat shareholders consented to wipe half-a-
million pounds of share capital and “accumu-
lated profits ” off their slato. “ Frank Grey ”
loved his bank ! The reconstruction in ’93 well
nigh broke him up, and the necessity for writing-
down the stock seven years later must have
troubled him much.
Chief Justice Madden (Vic.), as lucky as
was C.J. Darley (N.S.W.) a short time back,
draws at the rate of £10,500 a year for his services
on the Bench and in the cocked-hat of vice-
regality. It seems to have been expected that
His Honor would regard the greater boodle of £7OOO
a year for Acting-Governorship as cancelling (pro
tern.) the £3500 a year due to his Chief-Justice-
ship, but at present lie is drawing both allow-
ances.
Out of nearly 700 members in the House
of Commons, not within living memory has one of
their names commenced with the letter “Z,”
whereas Victoria’s Parliament has never in its
living memory been without a “ Z.” A goldfields
constituency started the thing with a representa-
tive named Zincke. Then East Melb. selected Zox
and returned him regularly for 20 years. Win.
Austin Zeal, President of the Leg. Council, is a
third omega.
The death is reported from England of
Alfred Priestley, formerly manager of the Federal
Bank, Melbourne. Poor Priestley used to say,
and probably believed to his dying day, that it
was all owing to the fact that the big banks did
not prop up his tottering institution that the great
financial crisis occurred. “Look at them !” he
would say, as bank after bank closed up, “they
wouldn’t help me, and look what has happened to
them ! ” The Federal was ex-Premier Jimmy
Munro’s bank. Priestley was a portly, puffy,
pompous man, who looked like a butler ; but the
crash turned him into a white thin wreck with
staring eyes.


Franz J osef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
WATSON’S WHISKY.
MACONOGHIE’S
Dainty Poods Obtainable Everywhere.
Fresh Herrings
Kippered Herrings
Herrings in Tomato Sauce
THE TASTIEST DISHES DURING THE lIOT
WEATHER.
No Picnic Complete without Them.
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE teeth.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland’s ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
Aboriginalities.
At its last meeting N.S.W. Aborigines
Board voted winter clothes for 22 “ wild blacks ”
near Wentworth. “ Many years ago,” Inspector-
General Fosbery told the board, “ a blackfellow
and two gins vanished from a place called Poola-
macca, near Wentworth, and were never heard of
for about 30 years, when they were discovered—
-40 of them.” Which, except for the name of the
vanishing point, is a pretty fair summary. There
was, of course, a woman at the bottom of it.
Ninnia killed a lubra and had to “ trek,” which he
did promptly, with two young gins. They hid
themselves in the mallee and porcupine (this was
on a fenced-out part of Cuthero station), lived on
emu and kangaroo, gathered water from mulga-
roots when they couldn’t get it otherwise, and
liked it all so well that they kept on hiding for 25
years. Their tracks were often seen ; but it is a
tired place, and Ninnia had been forgiven and
almost forgotten, so nobody bothered. In ’94,
though, Cuthero was duller than usual—so dull
that at last a party was made up, mostly of half-
castes, to round up the lost tribe. There were 30
of them—six blackfellows, seven lubras, 17 pica-
ninnies. Ninnia was still alive, but he got such a
horrible scare that he didn’t live long afterwards.
A curious fact about them was that, so far : s any-
body could ever learn, not one of them had been
given a name.
*- * *
A Chinaman sizes up the depression :
“Countlee all welly bad: no lingbarkee ; no
lain, no cabbagee grow. Bank gotem squatter,
labbit gotem bank. ”
* * ♦
Curious letter of complaint from an Aus-
tralian railway night-watchman to the station-
master
Dear Sir i wish to in form you that i have been eallen
Shuntre (shunter) Smjth up to the presant and his first
stay was at Mrs Brown for three weeks Mrs Brown left a
Light burning in the pashige for me and shode me to his
rom then toeld me that there were to more men in his
room and not to wake them so in sted of nocken i went
In his bed room lit the candle for him then shuck him up
now he has left Mrs Brown and gone to Mrs No 1 Jones
and he expect me to dow the same but 1 decline in con-
nection with the way his room is plaised to Get to his
room i have to gow down a passage by a ladyes room the
lady dog makes row Sir and the lady saulets me in this
stile Sur what are you doone there f am eomen too call
Mr Smith mam O all right the next i got to do is to open
a doar leaden to a sitten room then strike a match ana go
true this sitting room then come a bedroom i got toAo the
same then comes a dinning room i Got to doo the same
that is 7 matches i use every time I tail in Mr Smith’s
room.
S M Dear Sir if it is pleasen to yo to read this to Mr
Smith or Mr J Robinson if I am tellen anny un trought i
wis to be dealth with as your obdent Servant .
• • • •
A dusky dame of many charms, wife of a
Maori chief, eloped with a curly-headed Adonis
from a far-off village a while back, and the
abandoned husband decided to adopt the good old
custom of his forefathers in such cases made and
provided. He organised a “ robbing party ” and
raided the settlement in a perfectly friendly man-
ner, securing horses, cattle, guns, and whatever he
wanted in exchange for his faithless spouse. Then
he joyfully returned home. Simple and satis-
factory 1
“ Thurla ” : I have ob-
served that sometimes from
famine or for plunder the
small black ant will raid the
nest of the soldier-ant, and after
defeating the big fellows (a sure
thing once they start the job),
they seal all the holes up with a
sticky mud, and probably live
in the nests as long as the food
lasts. If two or more blacks
get hold of a “soldier” it is a
case with him, for others
promptly swarm on to him and
nip his legs off, leaving a help-
’-'ss wreck. Under soldier-ants’
ne*,.A are said to live a couple of
small black-and - white - ringed
snakes. They will be found
i'ust under the surface of the
leap in wet weather. Was
once shown a couple by a
cocky on the Castlareagh, who
said he had ploughed the nest
up and turned them out. They
were about lOin. long and about
the thickness of a man’s little
finger. I once broke into the
nest of some beef-ants, and was
surprised to find a small colony
of the black-and-yellow sugar-
ants living with them quite con-
tentedly—maybe as slaves.
♦ * •
The water-chyainth is be-
coming only too common in
Australian rivers and water-
holes. Not generally known
that this plant lias proved a per-
fect curse to many American
waterways, completely choking
them up and blocking naviga-
tion. It has also the invaluable
property of absorbing an im-
nense amount of moisture,
.a ving been apparently designed
for the express purpose of dry-
ing up swamps and morasses.
A country so subject to drought
as Australia has especial reason
to fear this scourge. It already
abounds in the waters of South Queensland.
0 0 9 9
“ English as she is wrote ” by a Teuton.
Quaint epistle received by a Queensland country
blacksmith:—
Dogtrap, August 22ht, 1893.
Dear Sir : Just two order 4 lines to you Sir to let you
no htat a got hte plough and swings and swings is not
mog hte same am ordert and whenn a not so pisse a send
hte swings hack’ and you paf mog hte am ordert; and
whenn am come an am hte tonne a tell you and hter is no
spanner for hte Plough ha cane A Jus hte P mitout
spanner for anew Plough me get allwas hte spanner htu.
Please mog hte spanner for hte Plough and sendem aut to
Hampton, a cannot jus Plough mit out spanner.
Please sendem out so quick ay you cann. —Yours fait-
fully, Gotti,hib Sausagesrbin.
0 0 9 9
Anew adverb. Mr. Bakblox, describing
the meanness of a certain cockie : “He treats his
men just simply dogly.”
The S.A. Govt, recently purchased from
millionaire J. H. Angas the old German village of
Klemzig—closer settlement having made great
strides. Early in the 40’s, S. A.’s father, G. F. Angas,
assisted some” 30 destitute families out from der
Vaterland, and settled them at Klemzig (on the
Torrens banks), and, until 20 years ago, existed
there the artist’s ideal of the old-fashioned mud
and thatched cottages. When a certain well-
advertised “Exhibition” showman eloped with a
dark-eyed daughter of Israel, Klemzig was their
first halting-place. The swain begged milk for
the fainting lady, but when the reviver was
brought forth in a very ignominious domestic
utensil, the runaways departed hastily, heedless
of protestations that the receptacle was never in
that settlement applied to its customary pur-
poses.
* ♦ *
“ Vigilans ” : I had beeu “ travelling ” six
days without meat when I niet three swagmen
with well-filled nose-bags, and three dogs as fat as
George Pile’s. “ How do you keep your dogs in
such condition?” I asked. “What part of the
world do you come from ? ” said one, as each
offered me mutton. I have seen sheep lying as if
they had died, but on closer examination found
that they had been killed, portions taken away,
the skin pulled into place again, and the sheep
then turned over. Very many swagmen out-back
have a dog, and that dog is always fat. Does this
state of things arise from the fact that it’s almost
useless to ask for rations now ?
“ Hogan’s Ghost ” : A bush-
hawker up this way was seated on the
box of his waggon amusing some chil-
dren with a music-box. When the box
had run-down the youngsters asked the
man to wind it up again, but he made
no answer, and, after repeated attempts
to get him to speak, the children went
home and tola their mother that the
hawker had fallen asleep while playing
for them. The mother said : “ We will
go down in the evening and get him
to play again.” But when they went
in the evening, the hawker still sat
on his box. He was dead. Almost
an ideal end, too. Dying to music,
and in giving pleasure to others.
“From sudden death, good Lord
deliver us 1” Nonsense !
• * » »
“T.G.F.”. Have never seen
anything in print about the bird known
as the “ Gang-Gang.” It is of the
parrot genus—brown in color with
wavy red lines and a scarlet top-
knot. When disturbed, it makes a
noise like a com-sheller. Had one given
to me once, but have no idea where it
originally came from. Can any of your
readers enlighten ?
The cocky’s new man thought he’d make a
good start, so he was up at daybreak and made
straight to work, reckoning on scoring a point
with his boss for early rising. But half way down
the paddock he met the cockie himself, and was
angrily admonished to “Sneak down quietly. If
the other chaps see you they’ll be wantin’ a ’alf-
holiday, too!’'
• • * *
The gins in a much-frequented camp on
the outskirts of a Wastralian mining town were
lately medically examined. There were 20 of
them : eight were loathesomely unsound and two
more were bad enough to account for the
flourishing state of the local pharmacies.
» * • *
Near Beechwood, Hastings River (N.S. W.)
is a blind fossicker, who is led around by his dog
through scrub and vines, swamps and snakes. He
has sunk 12ft. for water, and has a nice set of steps
cut to the bottom of the shaft. He says he lias a
dyke 2f>ft. wide, out of which he has made 720
assays—best of which went 18dwts. gold and 4oz.
silver to the ton. Ho works like a tiger and can
sink as straight a shaft as anybody.
* * * *
The population of the Lyell (M.L.) mostly
consists of worn-out miners, shrivelled Chinamen,
the registrar, the policeman, and “King” Fran-
cis, who keeps a shanty public-house, and suffers
from the delusion that lie is Emperor of China
and King of the Lost Tribes (the latter ably repre-
sented by the frequenters of his bar. lie is en-
couraged in this Belief because he sometimes
creates a “knight,” which means free drinks for
all hands. Thus the ceremony—His Imperial
Majesty enters with the candidate for the honor
of knighthood, seats himself, and repeats an
absurd formula, which is supposed to invest the
other with the proposed dignity. Then free lush
is served by the regal barman until everybody is
gloriously drunk. Strange to say —apart from this
extraordinary craze, “ the King ” —possesses keen
mental faculties. But—it’s an ill wind that blows
nobody good.
• • * *
At a recent send-off to a popular trades-
man leaving a N.S. W. country town, one of tho
speakers complimented said tradesman upon
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
CURATE : “Do you mean to say such a physical
wreck as he is gave you that black eye!”
COMPLAINING WIFE: “ Shure, sorr, he wasn’t a
physical wreck till he gcv me th ’ black eye!”
having worked so hard to get a road opened to
some back place; but the next speaker said he
knew not hing about that —the only road he knew
of was the road that all the company present were
on that night, and that was the road to blanky
Hades ! But the-next speaker, an old dairy far-
mer (one of Lyne’s latest-hatched J’s.P.), went one
better. After referring to the fact that the guest
of the evening’s wife had borne him 12 children,
he called upon the company to take a good look at
the lady (who was present), “Because,” said he,
“any good judge could tell by the look of her
IN THIS SPORTING COUNTRY.
J.P.: “Now, witness, state fully in what condition
the defendant was when you saw him.”
WINTNESS: “ Wal, yer wurship, he wor' not in
what you’d call condition at all —he wor moighty
POOR.”
that she was a most fruitful lady 1 though he
didn’t phrase it in exactly those words.
* * • *
Dear Bulletin.— Be school-teachers’ woes,
what about the unfortunate teacher of a country
grammar-school ? He is generally a young fellow
of little over 20, and in addition to his keep gets
about £30 a year, on which he is expected to dress
well, keep a horse, and belong to the local cricket,
tennis, football, and cycling-clubs. Although re-
cognised as a member of local Society, ho ranks in
it Delow a 16-year-okl bank-clerk. Also it de-
pends upon his individual boss whether his life is
a misery or not. Very often he has been the
crack scholar of some big Sydney school, and yet
his chief wonders that he can never stand more
than a year’s patronage by aitchless “leaders of
society. ” —Savage.
« * * *
“ Yar. ” : Once, spent a night at a hotel
other side of the Lachlan, and can’t forget it.
Found my way to a room that contained a single
bed, the covering of which didn’t look clean.
However, being sleepy, I chanced it, and was just
dozing off when a dirty Hindoo entered—there
was no lock—and gave me to understand that I
had his bed-offering, as evidence, some blood on
the sheet, which he said had come from a cut on
his finger, that had been injured in “ opening tin
of sardines.” In further proof of his statement,
he also drew my attention to floor, liberally spotted
with oil “ from fish,” and to a pair of much-soiled
toe-wraps, near head of bed. I was satisfied.
Dressed, and spent the night in astronomical
observations, and in shaking myself. Left before
breakfast, not wishing to express my feelings to
the landlord, who thought he could fight, and
would —the groom informed me—“job a bloke in
the eye in half a jiff.” And these pubs, are in-
spected regularly !
* • * »
In the “ spud ” district of N. W. Tasmania
a boy recently presented, as an
excuse for absence from school, the
mystic legend, “Cep a tom a
taterin.
“H.4D.”: Not uncom-
mon for goats to make
friends with horses and
cattle, but there is one
here that has chummed-
in with a mob of about a
dozen emus. Camps
when they camp, feeds
when they feed, and,
when they take it into
their heads to have a
mile "go” across a
plain, foots it with the
best of them.
“Vril ”: Be ani-
mal suicides. I once
saw a horse deliber-
ately lie down in a
gravelly stream with
his nose and mouth
immersed. His
owner promptly
shifted him, but
next morning he
was back in the
stream—drowned in
about a foot of
water.
S. Australia’s date-plantations in the far
north still do fairly well; at one of them, Lake
Harry, there are 3000 palms which will soon be in
l>earing. But it takes great care to preserve the
fruit from the ants ; and Centralia has probably
as many million ants to the' square mile as any
place on earth.
ONE FOR HIS NOB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Serenely went the weeks of Lent at Jamberoont Creek
Until one Friday- afternoon the Reverend John McGleeck
Went in to tea with Pat Magee, an Irish farmer, who
Would always find “ the cloth" a meal, as fanners mostly
do.
There is no need to say the creed of Reverend McGleeck
Was not the same as Pat Magee’s, of Jamberoora Creek !
For, John McGleeck, whose ample cheek was something
passing bounds,
Was Scotchbyterian Catechist who did the country
rounds.
Now Pat Magee, you’ll easy see, has quite a different
brand,
And, Kit, his wife, was just the same, you’ll easy under-
stand.
And Pat and Kit had worldly wit, a plain, hard-working
pair,
And Irish as the butter milk in Limerick and Kildare I
When Kit Magee brought in the tea the parson showed
surprise
To see a joint of mutton placed before his staring eyes
WILLIAM WILLIAMS, an Adelong (N.S.W.) centenarian ,
arid representatives of three generations of his descendants.
Photographed on May 3rd, 1900—his hundredth birthday.
Said he: “I thought no Oath’lic ought to eat of any meat
On Fridays, and especially Lent? But this is quite a
treat.”
Said Kit Magee: “Ye r Grace will see it's just as ye sup-
pose,
Although ye see the joint of meat before your honor’s
nose 1
For divil a bit we eat of it; we keep it, truth to tell,
To help you cheelcv Prodistans along the road to Hell !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


The Acetylene Gas Company of Austra-
lasia, Ltd., is to be congratulated on its success
at the Royal Agricultural Show, having secured no
less than twenty-five first prizes for its exhibits,
consisting of automatic, non-automatic and port-
able generators, also buggy, miner’s, stevedore’s,
bandsmen’s, firemen’s, bicycle, table, hand and
other lamps for acetylene gas. Ordinary carriage-
lamps converted into acetylene lamps; correspond-
ence invited on all outdoor and indoor lighting.*
All Diamonds.
£lO 10s.
Choice
Diamonds.
£5 ss.
Exquisite White
Pearls, £5 ss.
Superb
Diamonds.
£5 58
Solid Heavy 18ct.
Gold, £2 2s.
EMBLEMS
ALWAYS
Fascinate. A circle : the emblem of eternal—hence the giving of rings. We make Rings, and thus save the
makers’ profit; we mount the loose gems, and so save th 6 mounters’ profit. WE SELL FOR CASH AT
LONDON PRICES.
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney.
FAIRFAX * ROBERTS t 23 HUNTER STREET.
How Some Women Face
Trouble.
With the newspapers full of stories of misery
and crime, no apology is needed for re-printing a
charming story of a N.S.W. lady’s happiness and
courage. The paper from which it is clipped re-
ports the matter as a simple news item emanating
from its representative at Toowamba, via Eden.
Here lives Mrs. Ann Targett, a lady 59 years of
age. Mrs. Targett said : —“ Eight years ago indi-
gestion attacked me. Afterdating I suffered from
wind, severe pains, and a fulness which made me
drowsy and uncomfortable. I tried many reme-
dies but got worse year after year. Then my
heart became weak and I was continually suffer-
ing from sick headaches. Later on rheumatic
pains came in the left leg, and what with the pain
and loss of sleep and appetite I became very weak
and continued so, despite medical attendance.
Whilst reading the paper one day I noticed Dr.
Williams’ pink pills advertised, and commenced
them. A week later I felt decidedly improved
and was t-hys encouraged to continue them until
quite cured. Dr. Williams’ pink pills have made
me stronger and healthier than I have been for
many years.”
Nearly all ailments arise from impoverished
blood or unstrung nerves. As Dr. Williams’ pink
pills for pale people are a blood builder and nerve
tonic they therefore naturally cure these ailments
which include sciatica, neuralgia, consumption,
bronchitis, erysipelas, scrofula, etc. Dr. Williams’
pink pills are sold by Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Queen’s Place, Sydney, two and nine per box, and
by chemists and storekeepers—But mind you ask
for Dr. Williams.*
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
“ Illawarra ” : When skull-driving
in the Backbloeks once I got a bad back
which I couldn’t account for, till I dis-
covered that my bed was stuffed with
dirty wool, in lumps the size of one’s fist.
On enquiry I found that the bed had
done duty for three generations—grand-
father, granny, uncle Mick, aunt Bridget,
and Heaven knows how many other
ancients had died on it. I left, and eight
years later met a man with a weak back,
and learned that he was my successor at
“Monkey Flat,” and had occupied same
old bed. For the purposes of a bed I have
found nothing worse than wool, and no-
thing better than guru-leaves.
• • • •
“Toby. T.’*? He was an ex-army
officer, and owned a station on the Bar-
gowlahmine, and, one morning, when the
men went up for orders, one of them, who
wore his hair long and tueked-in, got the
“spear.” “Look at the bingey he nas got
on him,” said the boss, “and liis hair
greased with my fat! Come up to the
office, my man, and get your cheque ! ”
» » * *
“J.H.8.”: When eel-fishing in
the Wanganui River (M.L. J I saw a swan
some distance off thrusting its head under
water in the usual way; but presently,
observing something wrong, I rowed over,
and found that an enormous eel had swal-
lowed the swan’s head. The eel couldn’t
swallow any more, nor, owing presumably
to the reversal of the feathers on the
swan’s neck, could it get rid of what was
evidently a losing contract ; with the
result that both parties presently gave up
the ghost. Hoisted them into the boat,
and found that the eel measured 9ft. in
length by 2ft. Gin. in girth. [Thought
the conger (salt-water) was the largest
known eel ; never heard of one lOir.
in diam.—Ed. B.].
Dear Bulletin. “G. 8.” (B. 81/8/’00)
says “ the ‘ wind ’ of a tree in the Southern
Hemisphere is from E. to N., or in a course that
follows the sun.” My experience, however (as a
man earning his living at the game), is that trees
“ wind ” mostly to the left; which would be from
W. to N. In splitting trees with a “ left-hand
wind ” the split will always follow the “wind,”
hut a “right-hand wind” will noarly always split
straight. I have worked trees that were quite
straight in the grain for about Sin. in from out-
side, but inside that they were like a rope. In a
pine scrub the young pines don’t see the sun until
they have pierced the mat of dense foliage over-
head ; yet they are just as “ windy ” as any hard-
wood crowing in the open forest.—Broadaxk.
* * * *
Anew terror has been added to river-
travelling Out-back (N. S. W.). The Darling began
to rise, the other day, and about the biggest of
Far-West traders, who had, months ago, decided
to settle down in Sydney, but had been drought-
bound, got on a steamer with his family and made
up-stream for the rail terminus at Bourke. But
just then the weir at -Bourke was raised, the
“fresh ” was impounded behind it, and, of course,
the steamer further down was soon left stranded !
Then the steamer passengers got out and walked,
or waited for a coach to pick them up. From
Bourke down to Wentworth that solitary weir is
■ursed hourly for seven days after every reported
“fresh.”
FIGURATIVE.
NO. 3: “I don’t know how it is, Julia. You ann
your sisters have the same sort of clothes as
other people, but you always look more un-
dressed. I suppose it costs you a pretty
figure? ”
NO. 2 : “ Simple enough I We pay for the FIT—
and find our own figures !”
In Pitt-street, Sydney, the other day while
a well-known vet. had his hand far back in a
horse’s mouth feeling for irregular growths, an ex-
cited youth rushed up, and started bashing the
moke upon the nose. He supposed the expert
was having his arm chewed off !
* * * *
“T.G.F.”: Can any Bulletin reader en-
lighten me about the “Mulcurry,” which I think
is a rain-making rite of the Normanton (Q.) blacks.
IN THE SURGICAL WARD.
NURSE (to suffering patient, who has been kicked to bits ): “ This is the third time you have bet a.
brought here in this condition. Why arc you so foolish as to continue to live with
such a brute of a husband? ”
PATIENT ( with dignity): “ What’s that got to do with you? It's the business of the likes of you
to attend to the likes of me!"
When the Namoi (N.S.W.) blacks wanted to
appeal for rain to Indoo, the water-god, the young
single men were made to bring a certain number
of kangaroos’ bladders filled with the natural
liquid to the head of the tribe. The “ karra ” then
commenced. The liquid from the bladders was
emptied into a wooden vessel held by the chief,
who with one hand dribbled fine white sand into
it while a voung girl stirred the mixture slowly
with an emu’s quill, a low chant being kept up
during the performance, which usually lasted
about an hour.
“Lyndhursfc” : I can back up those of
your correspondents who say that crows are a pest.
Nearly all the stock-boards (composed of squat-
ters) pay 6d. for every crow killed —which doesn’t
look much as if the crow, as alleged, is the
“squatter’s friend.” It is also said that crows are
farmers’ pals, but the farmer himself is of a very
different opinion. [ln whatever relations he
may stand to pastoralist and agriculturist
—personally, as it were, the crow is a bird of great
parts. As a domestic pet he is the most amusing
of any, with his perpetual suggestion of a black-
clad hypocrite of infinite humor ; and his cry,
doleful as it is, is much less irritating than the
screech of a cockatoo. Also, he can give points
for knowingness to any cockatoo.
A TRANSLATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Mrs. de Laney was “ Frinch,” but although
As rich as the richest, not quite up to date
In the manners and frills of Potts Pointers ; and so
She kept to herself on de Launay Estate.
But Nora, her daughter, was perfect in all
Accomplishments fitting her proud Norman name—
Could play the piano, or dance at a ball,
And mixed with Society’s crime de la crime.
“ Now, mother,” one evening said she, “ the M’Kew*
Have sent invitations for dinner to-day ;
And this time you really must come. No excuse 1 ”
Said madam : “ Bad scran to their dinner, I say.
“ I’ve got me own grub, an’ I’ll ate it at hoam,
Where none’ll find fault wid me shtyle an’ addhress ;
I don’t know their ways, and I don’t want to know ’em
Besides, I’d be shamin’ you, Nora, no less.”
“ But, mother, I’m sure you’re as good as the rest.
You needn’t talk much —just reply with a bow,
And don’t eat a great deal—decline if you’re pressed.”
“ Decline ! Be me sowkins, I wouldn’t know how ! ”
“ Well, listen. Speak softly ; there’s no need to yell,
And answer (no matter how hungry you feel),
* No, thank you, I’ve done most remarkably well,’
Or, 1 Thanks, but I’ve made a most elegant meal.’ ”
The dinner is served. The de Laneys are there ;
The old woman’s lips are apparently glued ;
Each course goes untasted. “ Twould make a praste
shwear,”
Thinks she, “ to be lavin’ sich iligaut food.”
“ You don’t like boiled chicken, dear Mrs. de L. —
Pray let me exchange it for some fricasseed.”
“No, thank you, I’m doin’ mosht damnably well—
In fact, I’ve been havin’ a of a feed.”
BENDEE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficientl l/
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned, un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Glengnriff: Chestnv.ts! chestnuts 11 Van C.
You haven't got hold of “ all the facts.” One fact is th;
a man, to whom a certain dose of morphia might othei
wise be dangerous, if not fatal, may endure that dose
without injury if he takes it while in acute pain. Another
fact is that opium is not “ a mere soporific ” —it is a
tremendous stimulant C.L. : On the contrary, Tint
Bulletin hopes to see “The Banjo” end up his career
peacefully as a Judge. It would be perfectly lovely to see
his Honor take tire jury out to inspect the horse in dis-
pute between the parties L.M.V. : Alas for the man
who labels his own verses “poetry” 1 A.M.O. : What
else can you expect ? Those two members named are poor
os bubonic rats, and probably always will be—they were
notoriously unable to get an honest living when out of
Parliament Simply Hallelujah : Will print. Please
send address A.K. : We don’t know when Mr.
Peacock is going to get married J.S. : Once more
—a century is 100 years, not 99. The first cen-
tury ended at the end of the 100th year. The 19th
century will end at the end of the 1900th year
Blister: Story of uncourageous youth who engaged a
couple of toughs to “ stick up ” his inamorata so that he
might win fame by rescuing her, is as old as the Book of
Habakkuk E.P.S. : Let somebody now explain how it
happens that a disease, which has been virulently infec-
tious everywhere else, has not, in any one instance been
communicated by infection in Sydney ; or, if that can’t
be explained, how is it that patients suffering from a
non-infectious disease have to be quarantined T.T. :
Now, who offered that Labor-member a billet of £5OO a
year if he would withdraw from the contest ? And where
is the letter? A.B. : What Clause 74 does do is in
Barton’s words to provide that what Australia meant in
Australia’s constitution is to be decided on Australian
soil in an Australian court James Guy (Macphail) 1 ;
One verse of your wail printed as a token of our sym-
pathy—
Hard’s the lot of us poor bumpkins
On our dull and dreary rounds,
Selling fat and healthy pumpkins—
One-and-four for fourteen pounds.
.... Bijwoner: Thanks. Most people will think as you
do when the crowd has time to get the straws out of its
hair. We get many such letters, but, if we printed them,
the local Jingo—bearing in mind his own little ways—
would whoop “ Bogus !’’ Demo : “ Are the perpetrators
of the Gatton outrage known to the authorities, and, if so,
where are they at present ? ” Something easier, please 1
J.8.C.H.: Yes, it is more or less certain that the real
Tichborne came to Australia and died here. As likely- as
not, he was murdered, and Orton had a hand in the
transaction. Also, it seems that poor old Cresswell is
sufficiently sane and harmless to be set at liberty, but if
you declare Oreswell a sane person, you must admit that
there is no strong reason why he should be removed from
the place where he is quite contented to remain in his
Creswellian capacity A.M.0.: Really, the Government,
or the Public Service Board, in selecting an official, has no
business to know or worry about what a man’s religion is—
Kurama: Don’t rememlter it....Wilmot N. : Good
H.A. : Can’t see it C.M.W. : Tub Bulletin pays for
matter published, but does not in such cases appoint cor-
respondents N.H.A. (St. K.) : Can’t say till we see your
matter. Judging by your letter, it would probably be
worthless to us C.P. : But in writing verses please
don’t mix your tenses so.. ..W.W. : The boy “ carried a
rat in his hat.” Most of us carry our rats there... .V.M.
(Wellington, M.L.): You are as windy as your city. Con-
dense, condense Judas J. : Don’t send in cwts. of in-
different stuff on chance. Pick your matter better....
F.O. : Very long-winded ; also, please leave more room
for interlineation....Warrigal : Two of those “bulls”
were too “old in the horn.”... W.M. : Thanks....
R.T. : “ Wedding,” no quality Lionel C.: Clever in
its way, but lacks dramatic interest Mark W. Sorry
not good enough W.F.H : Pars, will do. Sketches
hardly up. Splendid dramatic chance missed in the
accident-story, but we will print it all the same leaving
the reader to*imagine for himself Visionary : Not well
enough handled. W.M.F. : “Sands” spoilt by too
much vagueness and such lines as, “And a thousand
minds they have stuttered.” Kosci: Neither worth
printing. To your question—Yes Ex-Territ: Pain-
fully small, close, faint writing. Alter that, and you may
have a show Long-’Un : Items to hand. That whiskey -
dream-yam is an old Hibernian gag T.S.D. : Only
doggerel W.J. : One or two may do. Don’t send in
such sheaves of useless stuff. Pick your subjects better,
and study what to leave out F.O. : You misrepresent
thatabandonmentcase. The decision was properly founded
on the fact that the offence was only technical
Eoro : We don’t propose to call attention to a passing
publication which hopes to live by pecking at The Bulle-
1X....T.H.8. : Coals to Newcastle—an old Bulletin
item Les. O. ; Will print Rough R. : Bulletin
wants concentrates, not ore in bulk Nikau : Se«
second par. “ Aboriginalities ” (8., 12/5/’00). Where did
you get your version from? “Old Mac.” bristles with
antiquities B.P.S. (BrisbA: Two “amusing” inci-
dents received. One too ola, t’other too b01d... .S.L.P.
(Bathurst) : Intricate legal points involved. If your in-
terest is large enough to worry about, see a solicitor.
A.P.O. : Probably not. Only the other day Chief-Justice
Madden very properly ruled that it is illegal to commit a
man for lunacy without giving him an opportunity of
cross-examining the medical witnesses G.B. : By all
means Aspire ! (And you might learn to Spell inciden-
tally.) L.C. : Well-written, Dut climaxes badly. Try
your power with a better plot F.J.M. :No good ; but
if you’ll kindly use ink it will look better 49-3 : That’s
49 blithers for you and three blasts from us. Ilabet !
R.H.I. : “O, I scramble for home and comfort.” Else-
where, please....A.C.B. : Gross imitation of Law-
son is flattering, but Ignotus : Glad to hear
from you Vander B. : No force X. : Yes
O.K. (Giril.): “ The Curing of P.M.” is not O.K. It is
N.G E.S.S. : Thanks. Will print the fat gentleman.
J.O.G. : Verse too rocky. Prose sketch agreeably
terse, but too slight of story Gobung : “Wedding”
doubtful; will consider. “ Calamity ”is calamitous in
metre Sphingos (Linton, Vic.): Sketch possibly print-
able, but assurance of originality required. Bulletin is
necessarily suspicious of bona-fides of meritorious contri-
butions from new writers, especially when there is an
absence of local color Rough-rider: You say “the
chief argument against the possibility of the earth being
stationary in space—viz., the absurdity of supposing so
small a sphere to have such an immense one as the sun
revolving round it —is, after all, but a weak one. Most of
the important things are little, from countries to dia-
monds.” Which argument, in turn, amounts to absurdity :
some things are of importance upon the small earth, there-
fore a demonstrated law of the physical universe is
probably (or possibly) reversed in favor of said earth
Rockhampton : We aren’t taking any criminal libels upon
a Judge on your unsupported say-50... .J.R.C. : As
punishment for your crime we print five lines from one of
the poems—
.... Spion Kop : But, you sec, it it wasn’t the magistrates'
fault that the men were charged under the wrong act; it
was their fault that the men were convicted under it.
And, anyway, as claimholders they ought to have had
sense enough to keep off such a case.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
John W. E. : Excellent promise, but you must study
drawing W.M. (apparently Maorilahd) : Good sugges-
tions. .. .Roughrider : One may serve as motif J.A.IA :
Will print 0ne....E.R. : Need re-drawing... .Dick O. :
Poo straight from the French.. ..Unavailable : W. Hand-
forth.
In an English divorce-court, recently, a
Mr. Durant Snook divorced his wife, the co-
respondents being Grosvenor Mossop and Harold
Snushall —the latter, however, leaving the court
“ without a stain.” Mrs. Snook was probably
desirous of getting her name changed at all
hazards, though her taste in problematical alterna-
'• e agnominations is opei to question.
"COLD WEATHER FER FISHES,
AIN’T IT, BULLY?"
An Trisli gentleman is now contributing to
S. M. Herald
We were at it, laid upon our stomachs blazing away,
without food or water, until midnight, and this under a
very strong sun and without a particle of shelter
Tom said he was a Road Racer,
And was the Victorian Macer
But I can’t see how it is said Pacer,
He is a bit flirky
When he rides like a turkey.


THE SCARE-MAKERS.-THE PRINTERS’ DEVILS.
EDITORS SYME AND WILLOUGHBY (simulluavusy ) : “ Do you fell nercous?"
MISS MELBOURNE : “ Yes; I’m more frightened of them than lam of the plague. But it’s very foolish of me, for I knew they were coming.


GETTING READY FOR “'BUSINESS.
Phe Sydney City Council have given organist
Wiegand leave of absence “ without pay” for the
cerned , “ ttnral life > 80 far as they are con-
The above picture is, to a certain extent,
allegorical.
“The near approach of the
meeting of Parliament is having
its influence on her Majesty’s Op-
_ position, who are beginning to con-
sider the most vulnerable points in the Government armor. It is stated
that several meetings of a strictly secret nature have taken place, and that
no effort is to be spared in the endeavor to seize the reins of office from the
hands of the present holders.”
At last meeting of the. Waverley Council the
inspector of nuisances stated that he had paid a
visit of inspection to/the Bondi Beach, when there
were unmistakeable evidences that the garbage
from the city had been washed on to the beach
frojn the sea. He was also able to identify some of
refuse.
“ It was stated at yesterday's meeting that
several business men in Erskine-
street had suffered heavy
loss through the re- yr
\. cent quarantine.”
Break, break, break,
At the foot of thy crags, 0 Sea,
But the pungent smell of the cat that is dead
Will ever come back to me.
—SIIORTFELLOW.
Sir Matthew Harris’s idea, is to have a lot of
balloons to take up the garbage, and, favored
with a fair wind, proceed 20 miles out from the
Heads and distribute-it over the Pacific.”
This plan would greatly augment the pleasure?
and excitement of a sea-voyage.
“ Just another whiff o. jwo and we will rejoin
the la :es.”
The young ladies of a N.S.W. school “who
have knitted a special pair of socks for
Field-Marshal Lord Roberts as a mark of
their esteem.”
Lord Roberts (who is here seen drying his only pair, to the Sirdar, who has
just arrived at head-quarters with the “ specially knitted ”): “ Confound ’em, they
might have gone a bit further and sent me a cake of soap and a clean shirt.”
CARTOONLETS.


%
/
s
SAUNDERS
817 CEORRES T
SYDNEY
8 5
F=S
w
A. SAUNDERS.
Reliable LEVERS. “The Challenge,” 15s ; Un-
rivalled, 20s. ; Pure Silver, 355. (All guaranteed.)
So.i,. iwuwicy .j—^.o3,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold,
£5 10s,- £O, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure
Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
Gold 2 Birds, Chain and Heart. Full Size
10s, small 8s Ad.
Gold Brooch, 5s 6d. Special value
A. SAUNIfERS.
London Levers 255, Pure Silver £2 6s. Hunting
Cases, £2 10s, £3. Written guarantee.
Send for Price List.
A. SAUNDERS.
New GoM S-Bar Pearl Set and Red Stone Scroll
Aliy jSame or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra strong, 10s.
15c. Gold 15s ; 18c. Gold ‘2os. Silver 3s 6d.
Gold Good Luck and Bird Brooch, 10s 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Wish Bone and Peari and Turquoise
Bee, 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
Gold 3-Bar and Bed Stone Brooch, 15s.
Verv Veat.
FRONT STUDS. 9c. Gold, 8s 6d and ius.
3 Front, 15c. Gold, 12s 6d and 15s.
Send for List.
A. &A 1
New Mortel WVcerbury, f-plaoe, Chronometer
Balance, Jewelled, 16s 6d ; Silver, 35s ; Gold,
£2 15s. Thes a Prices are Specially Reduced.
A. SAUNDKRS.
15c. Gold New Secret Name lirooeh, S Diamonds,
£3 ; Diamond and 2 Bubies, Cl 10* ; Cheaper
St tie. Zf)g. Any Nume Fititli.
New
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered 15c. Gold Key, Heart & Ivy Brooch,
35s ; 18c. Gold, Jt2 ss. The Very Latest.
.w BU.NDERS.
Registered 9c. Gold Amethyst Brooch,
17b td , 15c. Gold, 50* ; 18c. Gold, 85a.
Our latest Motto Brooch.
15c. Gold, Diamonds and Rubies, with
Ivy Leaves, 265. Very Cheap.
A. SAUJn JL>ERS.
Latest Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and
Heart Amethyst, 21s ; 16c. Gold, £2.
16c. Gold Wish Bone Forget-me-not
Brooch, 15s. Special Value.
CHARM.
Gold Mizpah, 4ft.
CHARM.
Gold, Amethyst,
and Pearls, Iss6d;
15c. Gold, 255.
Latest Design-
Special Reduced
Gold Trilby Rings,
5s 6d ; with Ame-
thyst, 7s 6d ; with-
out Chain, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDEFS.
Gold Dinna F< rjret
Brooch, 108 fid. Our
own Registeied
Design.
A. SAUNDERS
Gold Charm, 10s.
Very Latest.
CHARM.
Gold Wish Bone
and Heart or
Horseshoe, 4s.
A. SACNDERS.
CHARM. Gold, with
Enamelled Post
Office, 10s.
Gold Bell and Chains,
is 6d 3s 6d 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDEES.
SPECIAL MADE ROTHERHAM - TJWTffS,
Full Cap, £3 10s : Extra Jewelled Otartnnumffier
Balance, £4 10s ; Keyless Full Cap, £6,
Send for 1900 List. All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Link, 20s; 15c. Gold
355. Silver, 4s.
Goia Heart ADumbell Links,
12s od ; lie,, 2&s ; Silver, a* (id
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style Gold Links, Extra
Strong and Heavy, 22s fid ; 15c.
Solid Gold, £2 2s. Silver,4s fid.
A Strong Reliable Link.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Shield & Dumbell Links,
9c. Gold, 21s ; 15c. Gold, 355.
Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Links, 18s Cd, 20s,
255, 355, £2, £2 10s.
Monogram, 2s 6d Extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Charm Envelope
with Twopenny
Stamp, 12s 6d.
Name Free.
A.SAUNDERS
CHARM, New
Gold Bell, 78 6d
A. SANDERS.
Registered Gold Good Wish Brooch,
13s 6d ; 15e. Gold, 255. Silver, 4s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Gold 1900 Pearl '& Diamond Brooch, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, 7 Opals, 14 Pearls, 85s.
Bracelets to Match, £2 16s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird Chain and Heart Brooch, 7s 6d.
Special Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Butterfly Brooch, Pearls, Red or
Blue Stones, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Erin-Uo-Bragh B ODch, 17s 6d ;
15c. Cold, 30s ; 18c. G-jid, 355.
A SAU'.iUERS.
New Gold Century Brooch, Xss.
<A
A. SAUNDERS.
16c. Gold 2-Bar Pure Diamond Brooch, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Latest Gold Rose,
Shamrock & Thistle, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Old English
Coin, Gold Mounted,
10s.
m
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain Snap Padlock,
255, 30s, 355, £2 6s, £3;
15c., £2 10s, £3, £4,
£4 10s, £5, £6, £lO.
10s. Extra for Key-
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAt.—.»j jAobnt).
Ladies’ Waterbury Watch, Keyless,
13s t>d ; Pure Silver, 30s ; Gold, £2 15s.
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Band, Opal,
17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 80s ;
ISo. Gold, £2.
Send lor Size Card.
:c
A. SAUNDERS.
*°c. Gold, 8 Pure Pla-
fonds, 2 Opal Hearts,
**i 10s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. GoM, 6 Opals,
J-lloop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies or Opals, 4 Dia-
monds, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
monds, and 2 Rubies or
Sapphires, Buckle,
£2 10s.
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
mond Band, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15c. Gold, 30s.
18c. Solid Gold, Extra
Strong- and Heavy, one
or three Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Solid Gold Chain
Rings, 15s, 20s, 30s, £2.
Price to Quality of Gold.
EEU!
Oc. Gold, 12s 6d, 15s;
15c., 30s, 35s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
A. SAUNGEhS.
Gold Keyless Waltham, J-plate, Patent Cases,
£4 4s ; 14c. gold, £6 5s ; Extra Quality, £7 10s,
£lO ; 18c. Gold, £l2 10s. Solid Silver, £2 10s,
£3, £4, £5. We give a Guarantee Certificate.
A. SMjWDERS.
Registered Gold 2-Bird 2-Heart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s 6d ;
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ivy Leaf Gold Mizpah Brooch, 12s 6d.
Silver, 4s (id.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Kevless, 255, 30s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
Ail Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone Heart and Arrow, with
Red Stone, 12s Cd.
Our Newest Gold Bird and Bell, 6s 6d.
Amethyst, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, Pure Double-cut
Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, id 6s, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Hand-made '
Solid Gold,
15s ; extra
heavy, 308,
•rt. Saunders.
H'edding Rings and Keepers, 9c
5s 6d, ,s 6d, 10s each ; 15c. Gold
heavy, 26s ; IS,-, Gold, 2n s • extra
B;>g, 40». Send for card.
\S»>>NV
A. SAUNDERS.
New Sword and Australian Enamelled Flag Brooch, 20s.
Ours is the Australian Flag.
Call and See our Jewellery Exhibition—A Special Easter Show
or Send for our 1900 Complete Illustrated Book
FREE ANYWHERE.-^—*
A. SAUNDERS
■* L ading Art Jeweller. •»
815 m 817 George St.,
NEARLY
OPPOSITE
RAILWAY
STATION,
Sydney.


Established 55 Years.
All Articles of Good Quality.
Roofing Felt, 75ft. x 32in., 8/- roll; Weighing
Machines, 4cwt., £4, lOcwt., £8 ; Wood and Coal
Scales, £2 10s. ; Earthenware and Iron Sinks, suit-
able for Poultry feeding, 5/-; Good Quality Fuze,
per case of 500 coils, per coil; Hand I utnps,
6/-; Govenour Brand Horse Shoe Iron, 1& x|, 9/-
cwt. ; Walker’s Horse Nails, 9/- cwt. ; Globe
Horse Nails, sli
juLuiac x, a,ixo, lightly touched, 2d. lb. ; Guttering
and Ridge Cap, slightly touched, Bd., 6ft. lengths;
Chaff Knives, 12/- doz. ; Mixed Paints, in lib. and
21b. tins, 3£d. per lb. Winnowers, 20/- each ;
Corn Shelters, to fit on post, 3/6 each; Beater
Plates for Thrashing Machines, 3/6 pr. ; Plough
Shares 10/- doz. ; 500 tons Bolts and Nuts up to
36in. long ; Copper Boilers, weighing 361b5.,
25 gallons, 1/- per lb. ; Double Barrel Breech-
loading Guns, 305.; Rifle?, 7/6 and 10/-each ; Pin
Fire Revolvers, 6/- each ; Snaring Wire, 3d. lb. ;
Octagon Steel, lin., £2O ton ; Buggy Poles, 2/6
each ; Plough, Bullock and Trace Chains, 2d. lb.
Mattress Wire, slightly touched, 10/- cwt. ; Soft
Soap, in lcwt. packages, 16/- cwt. ; Disencrusting
for Steam Boilers, 20/- cwt. ; Varnish, m 4-gallon
tins, 20/- tin ; Varnish Stains, 6d. bottle ; Fruit
Collectors, with 10ft. handles. 5/- each; Wall
Paper, 2£d. roll ; Wire Nails, taking 10cwt.
assorted or more, 10/- per cwt. 6, 7,
8,9, 10, 11, ljin. x 6,7, 8,9, 10, 2m. x 5,
6,7, 8, 2|in. x 5,6, 7,8, 21m. x 5, b, 7, 8.
Galvanised Signal Wire, £2O per ton; Rus-
sian Glue, taking lcwt., 7icL lb..;.Glass laper,
7/6 ream ; a few coils Steel Wire Rope and Steel
Truck Wheels up to 36in. cheap ; Seeing T wine,
taking lcwt., Od. lb. ; Barge Stock Iron Lifting
Blocks; Brown Wrapping Paper, taking scwt.,
12/- per cwt. Importers of all descriptions ot
Builders. Contractors, Engineers, Plumbers,
Blacksmiths, Cabinet-makers, and General Iron-
mongery and Painters Material, Cheapest Prices,
One of the Largest Stocks in Australia.
30'
JOHN MACINTOSH & SONS,
Wholesale and Retail Ironmongers,
r, 321, 276, 280 Pitt Street, Sydney, X-S.W.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s €ii)brocatioi)
for Cuts, Sprains,- Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints in MAN and
CAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s €njbrocatioi).
HAVE YOU
A BAD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps Bur-
roundtd with inflammation and swollen that when you
pre*s your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion 1 If so, under the skin you have poison that defies alt
the remedies you have tried, which, it not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you l’erhaps yuur knees arc swollen, the joints being
ulcerated: the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. Yon may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advised to submit to amputation ; but do not, for 1 CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but 1 WILL, Because
others have failed is no reasou for not now being cured.
Sendatonce for
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid's Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours. Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists. Stores,
Ac. Price, in Great Bri'ain, 1/ljd. per b x. Prepared by
ALBERT, 73, Farringdon-street, I.ondon, England.
Agents ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Regd. copyright).
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite ot
English
Society.
S. Harvey, Ltd.,
London, S.E.
n
■
isft
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SCRUBB’S
ainu
xanono
AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
fcSRS * / i
k
r
For ({ore Than One Hundred years
SOAP
has maintained its supremacy in the face of the whole
world’s competition. Such a record could not be
achieved without cause. Temporary successes are com-
paratively easy, but for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man who has once tried Pears Soap in the form of a
Shaving Stick wants no other, he takes it with him on all
his journeys. The woman who travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
“ matchless for the complexion.”
ARE YOU ABOUT TO FURNISH?
You cannot do better than try HALL’S. They have the Largest
Stock in Australasia. Have you got one of our New Catalogues ? If
not, call or write for one. Posted Free. 72 Pages, 500 Illustrations.
Just Published.
HALL’S
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, in rich Genoa Velvet, with silk plush borders, viz., Settee,
2 Arm Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for 8 Guineas. Thirty Drawing-room Suites to
select from. ,
HALL’S
DINING-ROOM SUITE, very strong, covered in best American Leather; 6 Padded
Back Chairs, Large Couch, and Pair Easy Chairs. 6 Guineas. Ditto, in real Maroon
Leather, 10 Guineas.
HALL’S
BEDROOM SUITE, Polished Pine or Walnut Color; Wardrobe, with Plate-glass
Door and Deep Drawer; Duchess Chest Drawers, with Glass attached; Marble-top
Washstand, Towel Rail, and Chair, £6 15s.
HALL’S
FULL-SIZE HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD, Brass Footrail, Double Wire Mattress,
and Set Best Wool Bedding. 4 Guineas. With best Kapok Bedding, £4 17s. Gd.
A. HALL & COMPANY,
The Universal House Purnishers,
561, 563, 565 & 567 George-st., Sydney (Brickfield Hill).
.Goods Stored Free until required. Country Orders Parked Free. Leave Tram a: Liverpool-
street for Hall’s. Close—Saturdays, 9 r p.m. ; Wednesdays, 1 p.ra.
A COACHMAN’S STORY
“Rheumatism,” said a leading physician not long
since “may attack anybody, but is especially the
disease of age and poverty. Jhc immedmte cause
is an irritant poison in the blood, which, be °°? L
ing lodged in those parts of the system where the
SS lias the &* !<««
less violent inflammation. This poisonis ah . y
associated with impaired digestion on the part ot
the Stomach and liver, and the amount of it m the
system is increased by the inactivity ofthei excre
rive organs, particularly the skm, bowels, and
the correctness of this view, the fol- ,
lowing conclusion is clearly deducible from it, nam-
ely, that to relieve or cure a case of rheumatism
we should seek, first, to prevent the formation
of the blood by correcting the impaired digestion,
and, second, to stimulate the skm, bowels, and kid-
neys, that they may throw it off ; or in other
words, we must try to purify the blood. Outward
applications, although they may, and do, modify
pain at certain inflamed spots, cannot, in the
nature of things, eradicate the cause of disease.
The following case illustrates the truth ot tins
theory, and should be attentively studied by all
who are afflicted with gout and rheumatism—the
two ailments being, under different names, prac-
tically the same thing. , , ,
“Sixteen years ago I had an attack or rheu-
matic gout wliich affected all my joints, giving me
intense pain. My hands, feet, and shoulders were
puffed up and swollen, and for many weeks I suf-
fered martyrdom. After this I was from time to
time subject to rheumatism, which moved about
my system, sometimes appearing in one part and
then another. Bor five years I suffered like this.
“ In the autumn of 1885, whilst in the employ-
ment of a doctor at Bayswater as coachman, my
eyes became affectod and I was blind, not being
able to see either the numbers or names of the
streets I drove along, My eyes were like a piece
of liver, and the doctor I was with sent me first to
an eye specialist, and afterwards gave me a note,
and I went to St. Mary’s Hospital, Haddington,
where I attended as an outdoor patient for nine
months. , ,
“ I was so bad I had to give up my employment.
The doctors at the hospital made a thorough
examination of my eyes, and said they wore sound
and that my affection was caused by rheumatic
gout. They gave me medicines and drops for the
eyes; also placed blisters behind the ears and on
the temples, but £ was little better for anything.
“Some days L was better then worse, and L
feared I should lose my sight altogether. In July
1880, my brother came to London on a visit, and
urged mo to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup, as ho
thought it would drive the rheumatism out of my
system. I f?ot ti bottle of this medicine ftom
Whitoloy’s, in Wostbourno Grove, and after taking
two bottles I was wonderfully better. My sight
returned, and 1 felt bettor of myself. When l had
taken six bottles I w(ts well as ever, and have since
been well. You can publish this letter, and refer
anyone to me. (Signed) Joseph Parker, 21,
Ploointield Street, WestbourneSquare, Bayswater,
July Ist,, 1890.” .
Mr. Parker is a respectable man and worthy ot
implicit confidence He is now in the employment
of Mr. Whiteley, the famous purveyor, of whom
he bought Mother SeigeFs Syrup in the tune of
his necessity. The cure is certainly remarkable,
and demonstrates the truth of the proposition,
now admitted by the highest medical authorities,
that rheumatism is a disease of the blood, caused
at the root of it, by chronic dyspepsia and mdi
gestion. Mother Seigel’s Syrup, being the most
successful medicine in the world for all ailments
of the digestion, consequently prevents the further
formation of the rheumatic poison,_ expels it from
all places where it has produced inflammation m
the body, and hence cures rheumatism. r l he reader
will note that it is now ten years since
Mr. Parker’s recovery, during which period he
has had no relapse. Therefore the cure was real
and radical.
The Tonic.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a jaded, well-dressed man of thirty-eight,
and he sat on the dummy of a tram next an old
Irish laborer who smoked a pipe. The old fellow
smoked cheap tobacco with hungry zest, and our
friend smoked an expensive cigar with dull list-
lessness. Something of the contrast struck him,
for he was introspective, and he felt rather more
jaded than before. He was reviewing himself :
He had worked hard in business, probably too
hard, and he certainly had worked too hard at
“enjoying himself” ; in his prime he found him-
self envying an old man his honest smoke. And
now he had started thinking—how busy were the
streets, and how interested in their own concerns
the people ! What could they find to interest
them ? And the perky clerklets flitting about
with tiny cigarette in mouth, boldly ogling pretty
firls —too responsive some of them ah, well !
e knew all about it. And the thirsty loafers
round the bars busily battling for drinks ! Why,
they seemed to find life positively interesting
but no, he had not energy enough to want to
make a hog of himself.
“ The fact is, old man,” he told himself, you
have exhausted everything; you have exhausted
yourself ”
Great heavens ! was that a thunderbolt 1
When recovered he found a girl sitting on his
kne«; she was confused and frightened, and
quickly squeezed into a place, by his side. She
had jumped on the car while in motion and had
been thrown violently against the languid pas-
senger. . ,
But what a vision of blushing cheeks, glowing
eyes and panting bosom ! How fresh, and young, ,
and bright ! And she begged his pardon so
heartily, and, as she did so, explained that the
conductor wouldn’t stop, and it seemed so easy to
jump on. What part of the country had she
come from ? Bendigo way ? He knew Bendigo
district very well, and soon they chatted comfort-
ably ; or, rather, she talked, talked quite uncon-
strainedly, talked incessantly, merrily; and
laughed with a clear, bright, jolly laugh.. She
came to town to try and get a billet as a waitress
or something’ike that; “respectable, you know,
she added iii uecided tones, looking him full in
the face. ' She quite willingly accepted his offer to
look for something suitable.
“ Hullo ! old man,” said a friend shortly after;
“ you look pretty fit -been in the country?”
“ I think I have,” he replied. .
And he got her a nice situation in a highly
respeotable tea-room, and saw her homo at night,
and took her to theatres, and dressed himself
quite sprucely, and got quite young-looking again.
“Since I met you,” lie told her, “everything is
as rosy-red as your cheeks, and life with you .
would be one long, bright dream.” |
“ I always enjoy myself in your company, she .
prattled ; “you draw mo out of myself—and then i
you know everything.”
Marry her?—urn—no; ho hardly thought so— 1
not unless there were dangerous rivals, and he
saw none. . ,
But one night he saw her with that conceited
young ass, Talkins, who was a member of the
A.N.A., and had ambitions. Hearing his own
name, he listened.
“Well, dear,”she expostulated, “how could I
help it ? He would come pestering me, and how
could I tell what your intentions were ? I know
you’ll despise me, but I would sooner marry an
old frump like him than keep house even with
you, dear. I’ve seen so much ! But, oh !he was
heavy ! I had to pull him along all the time ! ”
And as he walked away he looked more jaded
than ever.
BLUE-BLACK.
Writes Ernest Favenc :
I am glad to find Tire Bulletin take kindly notice of
the death of that old Northern Territory man, Alfred
Pybus. I see that he died at Powell’s Creek, a station
right on his old familiar hunting-ground. I know nothing
of Pybus’s exploits with Gov. Kintore, but I knew him in
’79, when he had the reputation of being one of the best
linesmen on the Overland. I saw him putting up a big
telegraph poston the banks of the Katherine River after
the high flood of that year, when station-master Murray,
of the Katherine, did a big swimming and line-repairing
feat. The post required to be of special height and
strength, for the Katherine River is no trifle, and the
crossing wire has to be well elevated. In fact, it was a
giant Of a post, but the way Pybus and his men took
liberties with it, and chucked it about like a match, is
something to remember. Pybus was a good fellow and a
clever all-round bushman of the old type, of which so
many were in the construction-party of the Overland—
men who were perfectly at home in the bush, and entirely
self-reliant. Yet, presumably Pybus would have been
rejected for N.S.W. Bushmen’s Contingent, to judge by
some of the samples I saw walking about in kharki as
full-fledged bushmen.
Henry B. T. Strangways, who has.dug him-
self up in London to protest in the papers against
the Appeal clauses of the Commonwealth Bill, is
a pretty far-back Australian relic. Also, he is a
politician with a very scrappy record. He was
Attorney-General for a year and 11 days in the
first Reynolds (S.A.) Ministry of 1860. He was
Commissioner for Something for 20 weeks in the
second Reynolds Ministry. He was Commissioner
of the same thing under Waterhouse for 20 months,
and again under Dutton for six months, and again
under Ayers for a month. Then he was twice
Premier, once for 18 months and once for 18 days.
Thirty years ago Strangways wandered disap-
pointedly back to England, where he has been
a J.P. ever since, though nothing else is known
against his character save that his two middle
names are Bull Templar. Anyhow, as an autho-
rity on Australian affairs, Strangways is rather
out of date.
Dear Bulletin :— Be the original of Thac-
keray’s Rev. Chas. Honeywood. I knew the man
well in Tasmania. He had been at school with
Thackeray at the Charter-house, and had become
a preacher at a fashionable London church, but,
developing a weakness for liquor, had been sent
to Tasmania as a Govt, chaplain. So popular did
his preaching become, however, that it emptied
the other churches, with the result that the
preacher was relegated to a country cure, where
lie was compelled to associate almost exclusively
with bushmen and roughs. His failing accordingly
again asserted itself, and when I came to know
him he had sunk past redemption, though at times
there would be shown a flash of the old fire. I
never heard anything more pathetic than his reply
to a lady who expressed disappointment at nis
sermon. “Well, madam,” he said, with a sigh,
“ every dog has his day—and this dog’s is past! ”
—W.L.


Expressions continually coming from those who
are happy in health are actuated,, firstly by
gratitude, and secondly, by compassion.. No pay
is asked or given. They say: “I feel it my duty. ’
The following is an example. It succeeds
thousands of similar ones and precedes thousands.
Mr. E. H. MTnnes, of Manchester House,
George-street, Sydney, says: “Being for a long
time troubled with my kidneys, I tried a great
many kinds of medicines, but without doing me-
any good. One day a friend of mine told me of
Warner’s Safe Cure as being a first class medicine
for my complaint. I went and got a bottle, and
found it did me good, and by the time I finished
the third bottle I was free from all pains and
miserable feelings which I had before I took to
Warner’s Safe Cure. I can really say that while
I was in Western Australia and on the goldfields
drinking bad water, Warner’s Safe Cure was my
best friend.” Late manager, Braemar House,
Mt. Macedon, Victoria.*
GEO. ROE
WHISKEY
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk &TRIFK
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33J- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOTJNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane Q’land
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATUONAGB^
...0n...
Mr. Fraok Senior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Kegal Chemist.
Avoid indigestion. Eat
GRANUMA
Avoid Plague ? Drink
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
Be Cheerful? Drink
BILLY TEA
The LUXURY of the TIMES. QUITE UP-TO-DATE
KHAKI BLEND TEA.
Indispensible ! USED by all Loyalists 1
THE BUSHMAN CONTINGENT CANTEEN
Of ALL Good Grocers and Sensible Storekeepers.
V
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT€R BRAPLCY # CO.,
f urniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 321 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION A FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by-
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
S3F” Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale-
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
POLITICAL
POINTS
The present- is not the first war engineered
by the Rhodes gang. The Matabele war of ’93,
which enabled the Chartered Cos. to seize a terri-
tory larger than N.S. W., was regarded by persons
on the spot as the result of skilful diplomacy.
A lot of the lawyers say that to abolish
the appeal to the Privy Council “ would be to step
between the Australian citizen and his sovereign.”
What they really mean is that to abolish it would
be to step between the Australian lawyer and his
sovereigns.
The making of gifts to the various con-
tingents by Jingo tradesmen is, of course, a mere
attempt to paste their advts. on the British
Throne ; but the religious publishing house which
issues the “ Kharki ” Bible brazenly, endeavors to
paste its bills on the Throne of God.
Coincidently with the appointment of
Stipendiary-Magistrate Delohery as a N.S.W.
Public Service Commissioner, the various depart-
ments were called upon to show cause why the
sexagenarians in the service should not be retired !
The new Commissioner is himself 60, which goes
to show the absurdity of retiring a man because
he is that age. Query to N. S. W. Justice Dept.: Is
Mr. Delohery 60?—Yes. Is he fit to discharge
his duties ?—Yes. Does he intend to continue his
office ?—No. He is now a member of the Public
Service Board !
In view of its support of
the present N.S.W. Government
the Sydney Daily Telegraph
is becoming known as “ the Ly-
notype.” - ,
Another phase. If it is
necessary to make Australians
go to England for a "fresh lot of
•fudges on final appeals, why
don’t the people at ’Ome appoint
an absolutely disinterested tri-
bunal at this end of the earth to
decide their appeals ?
The energetic W. F. Schey,
ex-M.L.A. for Darlington in
N.S.W. Assembly, is to be Pre-
sident or Chairman of Premier
Lyne’s new “ Unemployed Ad-
visory Board ” with a fixed re-
muneration per sitting. Mr.
Schey was a member of the
honorary commission appointed
by ex-Premier Reid under the
chairmanship of ex-Minister of
Mines Sydney Smith. This
philanthropic body put in a
claim for fees, after submitting
its report (which report, though
only six months old, is as dead
as the Anti-Bill League), and
got them. If these ex-politicians
can find light, well-paid em-
ployment for workless citizens
as easily as for themselves they
will yet earn the gratitude of
their bleeding country.
‘•England has two great
recruiting - sergeants — pauper-
ism, which supplies 95 per
cent., and patriotism, which
supplies 5 per cent, of the re-
cruits.” —John Burns, in the
House of Commons.
“ Oom Paul has again pub-
licly appealed to the Almighty
for help, after having been refused
assistance in Europe.” Not bad for Sydney
Star.
Q. Federal-delegate Dickson’s greasy hum-
bleness in face of the Colonial Office would make
Uriah Heep blush for his manhood. Queensland
has long recognised that in sheer servility it was
impossible for anybody to surpass Dickson. But
Dickson has achieved the impossible—he has
actually surpassed Himself !
“ The Transvaal is a country where the
English have chosen most unwisely—l am tempted
to say insanely—to place themselves in the strange
predicament of the free subjects of a monarchy
going to coerce the free subjects of a Republic
and to compel them to accept a citizenship which
they decline and refuse.— Gladstone.
“ God is on the side of the Boer.— German
public opinion. “lam on the side of the British.”
Kaiser Wilhelm.
G. H. Reid still cherishes hope of being in
reality the first Premier of Federated Australia.
It is true that, barring accidents, Barton will pro-
bably be “ sent for ” to form the first Ministry ;
but the first Ministry will very likely be a mere
stopgap, and probably won’t amount from a per-
manent-loaves-and-fishes point of view to a row of
pins.
The Womanhood Suffrage League after a
long and arduous battle is within a short march of
Australasian victory. Maoriland and S. Australia
are captured; Westralia has passed a Suffrage
Bill which only awaits Royal consent; N.S.W.
under the I*** Gov*- * ready to to capitulate, „
is Victoria under M cLean; and Q ueensland and
sleepy Tasm anla cry Ready »
For five years Premier Philp, Minister for
Railways and member for Townsville, has, in and
out of season, opposed the extension of the present
useless Bowen Railway to its natural terminus at
Charters Towers (this would promptly stiffen the
port of Townsville). Now Philp appoints a Royal
Commission to gather evidence and recommend a
route, suppose the Commission furnish a common-
sense report ?
If Australians have the spunk of a flea
they will not suffer Chamberlain’s attempt to
alter the Commonwealth Bill—which voices .A.us-
trali an opinion as no measure ever did before—to
pass without instant and active protest. The
delegates in London need and deserve a popular
meeting in every town of Australia to stress the
fact that the whole Bill was endorsed and is de-
manded by a vast majority of voters.
Ex-Premier Kingston has cabled from
England urging the liberal press of Adelaide to
spare no effort to ensure the success of Liberalism
at the Council elections which take place this
Saturday, May' 19. There are 15 candidates for
eight seats, and of these the Liberal champions
are : Central District—Kirkpatrick and Robin-
son ; Southern District—Kingston and Gordon;
Northern District—Bice and Miller; and N E
District, Moody and Russell.
Loyalty (the Jingo brand of it) is a queer
quality. When Lieut. Dowling, after being
severely wounded and permanently injured, re-
turned to Sydney the other day, he, in a manly
way, gave the Boers credit ‘ for fairness and
humanity—said he did not credit all the state-
ments made as to Boer brutality . . . highly-
colored, &c. The N.G.'VV. country press (so-called)
professes to reprint the interview, but in at least
five cases out of six it calmly omits all mention of
Mr. Dowling’s references to Boer humanity.
When the strength of the Household Suf-
frage agitation scared them, S.A. Tories came out
with a proposal for a £2O rental qualification for
the Council, instead of £25 as now required.
With Kingston away the Tories expect to main-
THE KINGLY SPORT OF WAR.
COUNTRY VISITOR TO MELBOURNE : “ Great Heavens I what is
happening here? ”
LOCAL EXPERT : “ You see, that building is the Argus office, and
these people are showing one another how the battle of
Spion Kop ought to have been fought .”
tain their majority after the coming Council elec-
tions and they have therefore withdrawn their
modest reform and now advocate keeping things
as they are. From this it can be estimated what
a blow Kingston’s absence is to S.A. democrats,
who are actually fighting the elections leaderless.
Five years ago Chamberlain was complain-
ing bitterly that S. African Governor Hercules
Robinson was only a tool in the hands of Rhodes,
the dictator; and Rhodes and Joe were exchang-
ing expressions- of the most cordial detestation.
Now Chamberlain, Rhodes and co. own the earth.
An old man was in Maoriland recently
discovered cradling some stuff which he had
mined from the side of the road. He was blind,
and his cradle was specially constructed so that he
could save the gold by touch. He had knocked
out only 10s. worth in three months, but his old-
age pension kept him going.
The Marquis of Salisbury’s speech at the
Primrose League on May 9, in which he re-
marked that the manner in which the Trans-
vaal had armed itself in secret to such terrible
advantage showed how foolish it would be
for England to give Ireland Home Rule, sounds
the death-knell of all attempts to conciliate the
Irish. What Salisbury said may be true, but he
should never have said it. His speech shows the
utter hollowness of all the current shamrock busi-
ness—and what a slap in the face for the Queen is
the Premier’s utterance, reminding the Irish as it
does that, like the Boers, they are a half-con-
quered race, squirming under the heel of England!
Ed. Bulletin. —The decision of Q. Edu-
cation Minister Drake to enforce the compuLsory
clauses of the Education Act comes not a moment
too soon. Ring-barking camp on the Upper Con-
damine. Two of the hands have travelled thither
in a buggy. Also wqrking there, two Middle
Ridge, Toowoomba, cookies' sons, aged 20 and 23.
Younger (just arrived): “ Who owns the buggy ? ”
Elder: “Two chaps from Victoria.” Younger:
“Where’s that?” Elder: “ if I know!
Away out there somewhere, I think ” (waving his
arm towards sundown). Fact.—R.R.
Significant Maoriland cable in S. M.
Herald :
Owing to pro-Boer sentiments expressed during a dis-
cussion on militarism and arbitration at the National
Council of New Zealand women, which has been holding
its annual meeting at Dunedin during the week, the
Mayor declined to take the chair at the council’s conver-
sazione held last night.
It is, of course, the women’s sentiments that are
significant. Women with votes, too. The senti-
ments of the Mayor don’t count, being merely
those of every greasy worshipper of Wealth,
Power, and Greed.
From the British Army and Navy
Gazette :
Complaints are made that the Boers lire upon our am-
bulance parties. Is it not possible, however, that some-
times this is done by accident ? Our own stupidity may
account for some cases, for it is impossible to conceive of
anything more characteristic of the stupidity of red-tape
than the putting of ambulance men and Medical Corps
into the same uniform as the combatant forces. Kharki is
admirably suited to the latter : but surely the object of
the uniform of the men under the Red Cross should be to
make them as conspicuous as possible. The red cross on
the sleeves of the men cannot be seen at any distance.
Some more sensible uniform might be found for the hos-
pital attendants than kharki.
John Burns, at a great meeting of Labor
representatives recently, made a most effective
onslaught on a proposition that only working
men should be eligible as representatives. “The
sooner we get rid of the idea that the man in fus-
tian has all the virtues the better. Men like Mr.
Courtenay, Mr. J. A. Hobson, Mr. Sydney Webb
might render Democracy far greater services than
an engineer or boiler-maker. Yet because they
did not toil with their hands, they were to be cast
aside.” The proposition only secured three votes,
the British delegates showing far more common
sense than the Australian ones possessed a few
years ago.
The Saturday Review four years ago was
quite a liberal and progressive organ, and used to
talk like this about the Boers—see the issue for
June 6, 1896 :
We are accused of being Boer sympathisers, and we
confess that we think little of those people who do not
sympathise with the Boers in their gallant efforts to pre-
serve the independence of their country. Courage and
physical endurance are qualities to honor even in an
enemy, and these Boers are only our enemies when we
attack them.
Now that the Boers are fighting for their indepen-
dence in real earnest, the Review is fiercely
Jingo, and confesses that it gives a word of praise
to .Toubert merely to bring out its intense hatred
for Kruger in a more lurid light.
Premier Kingston’s protest against S.A.
Chief Justice Way’s interference with the Com-
monwealth Bill is all the more warranted because
there is a suspicion that other Australian C. J.’s
have been doing the same thing behind the backs
of the people who pay their salaries. Australian
constitutions provide for the appointment of
judges by the Parliamentary Ministries, represent-
ing the people; and it is to the Parliaments which
can impeach and discard them that they owe
allegiance. That any Australian judge, as a
judge, should treat independently with the British
Cabinet is a gross breach of decorum and an
offence against the people who by their represen-
tatives elect and pay him. Mr. S. J. Way has
cooked his own goose. He will get no great office
under the Common wealth.
The latest charge against the N.S.W.
Early Closing Act is that it is responsible for the
present prevalence of typhoid in Sydney. One -
sage solemnly writes to a Sydney daily that
In shops the only ventilation is by the front door
These have been hermetically closed at an earlv hour in
the evening. I believe this system of keeping doom
closed up has much to do with the large increase in
typhoid, as by closing the doors all the conditions for
developing typhoid, diphtheria, &e. , are brought into play
Some other genius will now be arising to point
out that the Boer war, and the Indian famine are
also results of the iniquitous E.C. Act. Genius
No. 1, however, makes one statement which, com-
ing from a leading shop-keeper, is worth the atten-
tion of the shop inspectors. “In the majority of
shops the only ventilation is by the front door.”
This is as true as it is that in a majority of shops
the fenestration is as deficient as the ventilation;
artificial lighting being substituted for windows
with evil results m the way of air contamination.
Vic. press attack* on P.M.G. Watt re the
Parker case were unjustifiable even from a Jingo
— i.e., sane Jingo—point of view. Because Watt
refused at the outset to keep billets open for any
men of the Postal department who wanted to join
the Imperial Bushmen Corps lie was likened, by
the hysterical Age, to Premier Schreiner, the half-
hearted “traitor.” The comparison is absurd.
In Cape Colony the call from the Imperial Govt,
was for a rally of as many able-bodied young-
colonials as felt disposed to fight against the
invading Boers, therefore Schreiner, by dis-
couraging the enlistment of civil servants, showed
himself more or less disloyal to his official position.
In Victoria the call was for a given number of
Bushmen to join the Imperial army at five “bob”'
a day, and the reason given by Watt for refusing
leave of absence, on war business, to the post-
office employes should be more than satisfactory
to the wildest “ patriot.” Seeing that the supply
of volunteers was in excess of the demand, "the
Ministry wished to discourage the volunteering of
civil servants in order that they might not come
into competition with the genuine bushmen who
wanted to join it.” An unanswerable argument.
“Eooro" to Tu« Bulle-
tin :
In Nov., ’97, the (hen Director of
N.S.W. Charitable Institutions re-
signed, and up to date the position,
though one of the most important in
the Chief Secretary’s department,
has not been permanently filled.
Some 18 months ago the daily pa)>erB
announced that a medical man high
in the Govt, service had been ap-
pointed by the Public Service Board.
Mr. Brunker, then Chief Secretary,
refused, however, to accept the
Board’s recommendation, and the
Board declined to make any other
and shifted the responsibility on to
the Minister. lirunker was adamant;
his successor, Mr. See, has apparently
taken the same view, and the I’ublio
Service Board will not alter its re-
commendation. The result of this
absurd deadlock is that the officer
acting as director cannot do any-
thing decisive as he does not know
any day when he will be superseded,
and the department is all at sixes and
sevens. If Parliament annually
votes a large salary to provide for
an officer to “direct” the huge
asylums where some 4000 aged de-
pendents on the State are lodged,
the least the Ministry can do is to
make an appointment to the Direc-
torship.
Chamberlain is claiming
for the British Parliament, in
respect of the Commonwealth
Bill, a, right which Queen Vic-
toria never claims in respect of
the most trivial Bill of an Aus-
tralian province. The royal
assent is occasionally refused to
provincial measures; but the
royal advisers never attempt to
tinker with those measures in
detail they do not alter a
measure on a vital point and
then tender approval. Why
should the infinitely - greater
measure establishing the Com-
monwealth be subjected to an emasculation which
the small measure of a single province is nob
called upon to suffer ?
The anti-Federal argument against Federal
Australia’s power under the Commonwealth Bill
to limit Privy Council appeals is rotten at the
root. If Australia can be trusted to make laws,
surely she can be trusted to say what they mean !
How will it help the British money-lender to
reserve to the Privy Council power to interpret
an Australian statute, when to Australia is re-
served the power to make domestic statutes as
objectionable to the British money-lender as she
chooses ?
Asking nothing, receiving naught,
Rut they cull their words from a fund of thought.
Since God is ranged on Kruger’s side,
As many pious Germans vow,
The Kaiser, just to even things,
Joins forces with the British now !


Donald MacDonald’s book about the siege
of Ladysmith is to bo published by the Abgus, for
tho-banefit of the author.
A very old Queensland identity died a few
days ago, in the person of Canon Glennie. The
rev. gentleman came to Sydney so Pl e years
ago, and was appointed incumbent of Moreton Bay
in ’4B. Well known all over the Darling Downs
district as a kindly, genial churchman of the old
type, who did good work in the days when the lire
of a country-clergvman was no easy one. By his
death, the Q. Govt, is relieved of the necessity of
paying a church-pension of £lOO per annum.
Died last week, Robert Bulcock of Bris-
bane, a one-time famous political organises Bul-
cock was originally an overlooker in an English
cotton-mill, whence he migrated to Queensland.
For a long time he was, outside Parliament, the
right-hand man of Sam Griffith and Co., and his
skill as a political manipulator was beyond all
question. Went into Parliament finally as mem-
ber for Enoggera and, on losing that seat, became
an M.L.C. of some importance. Was an ardent
teetotaller—a conspicuous churchgoer—but his
forte lay in the so-called “purification” —“Bul-
cocking—“ of electoral rolls.” Queensland readers
will pemember his famous libel action against the
old Boomerang and the futility of Bulcock’s
onslaught on that organ.
The harvest of Jingoism :
Corporal Harkus, of N.S.W. Lancers, has died of fever
at Bloefnfontein. Harkus went to England at Diamond
Jubilee time, and during his stay distinguished himself as
a first-class horseman. On the Lancers returning home
to N.S.W. from the festivities, the question of sending a
squadron for military instruction purposes to England
was mooted, and Harkus was among those chosen to go.
While training was proceeding, the Transvaal war broke
out and many of the Lancers volunteered to embark in a
quarrel, which was none of Australia’s. But not so
Harkus : he refused to volunteer, and with a few
others returned to N.S.W. —no doubt believing that
the claim of his home and wife and children was
Saramouqt. When the returning Lancers arrived in
f.S.W., anonymous Jingoes—anonymous, mind you, for
no man ever insulted him to his face —sent the now
deceased corporal and his comrades derisive tokens in the
shape of white feathers, &c. Harkus’ life promised to be
a hell-upon-earth, and so, to, please other people, he
sacrificed his home and went away to South Africa. And
now he is dead. Writes a sergeant of his regiment :
“ I have seen a letter to-day which says that Ben’s heart
was not in the fight. I know it was not. His heart was
with his wife and family, and he was forced to go to war
in consequence of the cruel sayings of those who did not
know him.”
The Bulletin only privately knows what were
the dead man’s opinions about the merits of the
war, but it does know that Harkus—who had so
distinguished himself in English and Australian
military tournaments as to be almost famous —
was esteemed by his brother-soldiers as a fine
fellow, and one who would have fought well in
defence of his native country. More than that the
Australian Republic will expect of none of her
sons. ' " .
To prevent Bubonic Plague wear Metzler’s
“ Protective Anklets,” a certain protective against
the access of vermin and disease germs from the
ground. They are worn by several members of the
medicAl profession, including doctors of the staff of
the Board of Health, and are worn also by mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Police Force on duty in the
plague-infected quarters of Sydney, Obtainable
from all first-class chemists or from Head Office
of the. Proprietary, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
Died lately, in Melb. hospital, Jack Mel-
vin, one of the old hands on the Westralian fields,
and among the first Europeans there to tackle
camel-driving in earnest. He prospected the Mt.
Eba leases.
When Forrest puts the Federal Con-
stitution BiU before the Westralian electors,
its acceptance is a foregone conclusion. Both
Perth and the goldfields will give an over-
whelming majority, and a solid “no everywhere
else will not alter the result. The goldfields are
expected to vote 20 to 1 for Federation, as the
“ayes” will include many electors who, though
perhaps lukewarm Federationists, have a hearty
hatred of the existing state of affairs. The heavy
Custom duties, the infamous meat-ring, and a
score of minor persecutions, have so goaded the
miners that either Federation, Separation, or
another Eureka Stockade was bound to happen.
Messrs. C. H. Walthers and Co. have
given the saddlery and harness trade of N.S. W.
the biggest start that it has had for 25 years. They
introduced low prices, marking in plain figures,
and best quality into the business, with the result
that their popularity is growing daily. They give
a man the exact design he wants, in saddlery or
harness, and by thus making their goods to suit
the requirements of each individual, they have
pushed their competitors right out of many dis-
tricts, and promise to lead every where before long.
Ladies are especially pleased with the comfortable
saddles made by Walthers and Co. The firm has
a grand lot of canvas rugs to suit all buyers; and
the best stock of kangaroo stock-whips in the
world. Every man and woman in the country
should send for Walthers’ catalogue. The address
is Hunter-street, Sydney.*
The case of Smith v. Smith, in Melb.
Divorce Court recently, came rather rough on
four pressmen who took notes of the proceedings.
The petitioning wife sought a dissolution of
marriage with her husband, a journalist, on the
ground of his habitual pro-beerism and financial
incapacity. He was mostly unsober, she said, what
time lie was engaged in brain-working for news-
papers at sundry places, and the evidence went
to show that Smith sometimes took two quarts of
tanglefoot before he could express the feeling of
the country in a sub-leader. Barrister Coldham,
for the respondent, asked his Honor whether it
were possible for such a thirsty Smith to have pro-
duced a respectable journal twice a week regularly.
He spoke in a tone of deepest reverence for
literature and the Press, but his argument was
wasted. Judge A’Beckett, who had been jotting
down his judgment on a sheet of paper whilst
Cold ham held the floor, decided from his own
personal knowledge of up-country newspapers
that a bi-weekly issue was not inconsistent with a
charge of habitual drunkenness against the
editorial “ we.” Then his Honor cast a regretful
glance towards the reporters’ table, and granted a
decree nisi with costs.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems.*
m
£
m
Jievet rqind baby I Jt will soon grow now.'
‘HARLENE’
Z HAIR.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair.
Promotes the Growth.
Arrests the Fall.
Strengthens the Roots.
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft.
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair.
Full description and directionsfor utein
20 languages supplied -with every bottle .
1/-, 2/6, and (triple a/6 size) 4/6 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
RECORD ORDER for TYPEWRITERS
121
.. YOSTS
This order has just been given by
Her Majesty’s Government for
Yost Typewriters, after the famous
machine had been thoroughly
tested alongside other makes.
:
m
This is the Clearest Proof of the Sterling Value of the Yost Typewriter.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
114 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane: Webster & Co. ; Adelaide: Reeves & Co.; Launceston : Hedley Button.
4S" Agents also for the NEW CENTURY and DENS MORE,
BUILD A TERRACE
OF FINE HOUSES
WITH THE MONEY
THAT THE
!'he
Anjfii
VO!
rch<i
m
.rr
m
m
&
imi
*>
X
National
Cash Register
. . . will . . .
Save and Make for You
in a Yew Years,
You don’t understand why 1
Well, you have only to investigate
To see how to accumulate !
FACT! STICK TO IT. ITS MONEY!
PRICES ON APPLICATION to
national Cash Register Co.,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
A TELEGRAM BY SEARCHLIGHT
FROM KIMBERLEY !
Th® Defenders of Kimberley found
S3HAJ. dOIWIQ
so essential for patrol work that they sent a Searchlight Telegram (as illus-
trated) to LORD METHUEN, the Commander of the relieving army,
who, recognising its urgency, forwarded it on to the Dunlop Depot at
Capetown—for immediate execution.
Another instance of “Dunlops” at the Front.
m
Tbe P<ii)lop Po?tinjatic Tyre Co. of AGS. Ltd
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
nm
n
m
nm
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
fflont depieteO.^|.Co.,[td
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74
CASTLEREAGH ST. f
SYDNEY
74
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
°«TABLISHBD 1879. *
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street (facing Bridge-st.) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. »/ 1.0 n<l on.
[Fidelity Guarantees. lOmp. LiaDilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, l)ipli.tlierfa, el
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clyne ; Brisbane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Farquhar. 'J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting (Jumpy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
BUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
London & Lancashire
Fire Insurance company.
LIBERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors —John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
The Bank of Rorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Ciiarker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £703,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office: 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
>—THE—n
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79,765— assuring £24,735,171.
Amounts. paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE',
GEELONG
PORTLAND i
WARRNAMBOOL J
Leura, Saturday, May 19, 1 p.m.
Tyrian .Saturday, May 26, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
PREMANTLE,
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., May 19, 12 Noon.
Burwah, Tuesday, May 22, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, May 26, 12 Noon.
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., May 19, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, May 26,12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Car<ro
booked through.
Lowest Current-Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Cowper Wharf, Woolloomooloo.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb* Trustees, €xcc<itorS,
AND
Ageocy Coippaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee. I
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; O. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
• Zealand Government, .. .. 600,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
-THE-
Commeicial Bank of Australia ■
(LIMITED). 1
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800.000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23,4/’OOl £3,196,353 0 0 |
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; lion. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. Thornlev, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Itishopaf/nte Str'eet Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd. j
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GEOIiGE ST It MET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Le.goe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
Business Announcements.
ladies’ Tailoring
Season—l9oo.^>
HAYING made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a mo3t important
branch of the Tailoring Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Lady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming Mai I boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
ROCHESTER LOP<S€
Colltns nace East, Melbourne.
Private Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trams, trains and theatres.'
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M‘CLELLAND,
Proprietress.
LADIES !
Nat urally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales . . . \
liarbers’ Supply House f
680-2 &eorge-j3to
SYDNEY.
Fair girls and gray horsiis.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Go., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail in September.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AFRIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIO.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
r’INGLAND VIA AMERICA
* by the
American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINK).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney ; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 16 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N.D. L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,376,400; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
“PRIMUS”
BATH
HEATER.
For KEIiOSENE. 4 Hot Shower immediately.
. . HOT WATER INSTANTLY .
No Chimney Pipes or Plumbers’ work required in fixing-.
You can fix it yourself. NO FUMES. NO SMELL.
PRICE : With 2-Burner Kerosene Gas Stove—without
Shower, 755. ; with Shower, 955. Price with 3or i
Burner Kerosene Stove, 10s. per Burner extra.
“PRIMUS” ROOM WARMERS can be fitted to;any Kero-
sene Gas Stove. Price (made of Steel), 15s. each ;
Brass, 255.
BRANDT BROS:
236 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY;
And 422 and 424 Elizabeth-st., MELBOURNE.
. Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCS
(LIMITED).
Express Passenger Service
—TO AXD FROM —
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOE MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Marloo(from
Melbourne), Tuesday,
. May 22.
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
May 25.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
May 18.
Best etc Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Coy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS -Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 8 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Pause nuer Aceomtnodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY Burns, l’hilp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH —D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE—British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents,
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON —Single, £36 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to fcllO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having rt>om. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAWNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
Huddart, parker § Co’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST A I STB ALI A,
NEW ZEALAND PORI'S.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers wW specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M‘|luiFaith,fl)‘Eacharn&|;o.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OE STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn Sc Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney. ~
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
Mel-
bourne,
1 p.m.
Ade-
laide,
1 p. in.
June 14 June 36
July 12 July 14
August 9 Aug.. 11
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay. India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7o'
including table wines. ’
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES ENGT ISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing andpassing their luggage through the Customs
etc.,-and also accompany them to Paris and Ca J ais ’
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between' Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and O
steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney. s ’
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal A-ent


Hori Grey gifted Auckland (M.L.)
with a priceless collection of curios, books, pic-
tures, and old-time MSS., but somnolent citizens,
with characteristic apathy, have neglected to erect
a building for their preservation and suitable dis-
a’ r . At present they are mouldering away in
-a-dozen different places in the local library,
and few people know the extent of the treasure
bequeathed them. A Grey memorial-hall has
time and again been suggested, but the absent-
minded public have lortg ago forgotten the great
pro consul. Even his proposed statue is hanging
fi re, only £BOO having so far been subscribed.
n
SNEEZE
And sneeze again. Then
keep on sneezing. Per-
haps you think you can
sneeze La Grippe out of
you in this way ! But
the trouble is La Grippe
isn’t in your head alone.
I It’s in your back, your
blood, your nerves, your
muscles ; all through the
body, everywhere.
It don’t take a doctor
J
to let you know you have it.
And it don’t take a doctor to
cure you, either.
cherry.
pectoral
is tlie cure. It’s a suro cure and a quick
cure. It quiets your restlessness, con-
trols your fever, stops your coughing,
and drives La Grippe right out of the
system. One dose relieves; a few
doses cure.
In Large and Small Bottles.
A cure is hastened by placing: over the chest one
of Dr. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral Plasters Prepared
by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Some years ago, when the veteran R.C.
Bishop Lanigan, of Goulbum (N.S.W.), was on a
pastoral tour, the priest of one of the Southern
parishes (say, Father O’Flynn) preached, on the
Sunday of the bishop’s presence, a powerful
sermon on “ Evil Literature,” with special refer-
ence to books purporting to relate the misdoings of
monks and nuns. After the service, when seated
in Father O’F.’s dining-room, the bishop compli-
mented the latter on his excellent discourse.
“But, sure,” he added, “ye must have read a
vast hape of bad books ye’self, Father, to have
prepared so grand a sermon. ” “ That’s true, m’
lord, otherwise I wouldn’t have been in a position
to warn m’ people against such stuff.” “ Quite
true,” said the bishop; “but d’ye mane to say
now that ye read that awful book, ‘ Maria
Monk ’? ” Father O’Flynn admitted that he had,
for the reason given. “’Tis a book I’ve never
seen,” said the bishop—“have ye a copy by ye?”
“I have, m’ lord. I have not destroyed it yet,
but, of course, intend doing so, now that I have
preached the sermon.” “ Very good,” said the
prelate, “ but suppose ye just read me a little to-
noight, so that I may know something about the
vile book.” The Father dutifully complied and
read some of the portion dealing with the alleged
irregularities of nuns. When the reading was
finished, the priest was for destroying the took
then and there. “Isn’t it shocking?” said he.
“Well now,” said Dr. Lanigan, “ I don’t know so
much about that. There are some very quare
nuns, Father, very quare nuns, indade. P’raps
ye’d better not burn the book to-noight, and ye
can read me some more to-morrow. ” The second
reading dealt mostly with the misdeeds of priests,
and again did the Father suggest the immediate
destruction of the took, but again did the bishop
defer execution. “Ye know, Father,” he sain,
“it’s not such an awful book after all,, there arc
some quare priests, too, Father. We’ll have the
rest of the book to-morrow.” But at the third
reading, for which Father O’Flynn mischievously
selected episcopal backslidings, his Lordship
grew mighty restive, and at the close Father
O’F. asked once more what should be
done with the book. “Well,” said the bishop,
gravely, “it isn’t such a bad took” (here lie
abstractedly tore it in several pieces) “and there
are some quare bishops too ” (here ho abstractedly
tore Maria into a lot more pieces), “ but perhaps ”
(here ho abstractedly tore Maria into 64 pieces
and dropped them all into the firo), “ perhaps it’s
as well that the people shouldn’t read such a book.
But” (hero ho drove the (14 pieces of Maria hard
into tne fire with the poker) “ the man that wrote
it maybo meant well, an’ it isn’t such a bad took,
an’ there are some quare bishops ” (hero ho smote
Maria so hard that the ashes of her flew all over
the room).
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS :
Donned,” London.
CANNON ST.
London,
□E3.O.
Established as a connecting’ link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London by
FR.A.KTK:
(who has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
and who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N.S. Wales HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland Messrs. CORRIE & 00., Queen BRISBANE,
victoria .lOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W. Australia C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
POTTED MEATS.
(Assorted kinds) in Tins about 2 ozs. & 4 ozs.
Manufacturers :
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED*,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office—9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
mn
PLAIN HOME TALK.
KMRRACINO
MEDICAL COIVIIVIOI\r SENSE.
By Dr, K. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 80 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young end old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life In
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the itnformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public, sneaking made easy, is Od post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). ' Post ts Od.
Dr. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty's Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. Tub
Art ok Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love, Dress,etc. lsOd post.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is Od posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aus'r. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 8s Od.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Skcrf.tr ok Ancient and Modern Magic. Is o<l post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is (Id posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is (id.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is (Id posted.
Edith O’Gorman'h Convent Like Unveiled, IsOd post.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter (newest), Is Oil post free.
liow to Read Heaps (.las. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Oiievahhe'h Advice to a Mother, 3s Od posted.
W'ondkrkul BUDGET Song Book, over 300 latest sonpa,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court ok London Series, ‘2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is Od posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is Od posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) tnat
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RA iiE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from bun—are
advertised in h- ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
Price 6s,
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Rudd.”
THE PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION Ltd
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS.
“DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
Minerva Tonic
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
Minerva Tonic
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
Minerva Tonic
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
Minerva Tonic
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
]re you Too Stout?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALINC REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
•A.UffJ\rCI2LB -l'Batt
('HJjre aA '«XTI
‘(asMiwrj)
m
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
OF
FINE SILVER.
m
"i 1 V”V»TV jpm
MAKERS OF
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILL A WAR, HA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER, ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICKS PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd.,
REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION.
DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food for
Infants
9
BENGER’S FOOD !s not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Ac., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by •
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
the aged.


IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SEEYICEABILITY, DURABILITY, ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
Ideal Tyre Coy.,
RICHMOND, VICTORIA
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z
YOU DON'T need to hunt for level roads
if you RIDE A MASSEY-HARRIS BICYCLE.
“ Runs easy, and keeps running easy.”
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney. Dunedin, Brisbane. Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
T. J. M'BRIDE, General Manager for Australasia,
MELBOURNE.
F. I». BISHOP, Manager for New South Wale*,
SYDNEY.
Dr. LA.W’B
COUGH BALSAM
WILL CURE YOUR
iQfkiCOza CoCigl).
/
/
/
A
HARD
PULL.
On holidays two parties
of men or boys will fre-
quently get hold of the
opposite ends of a rope
and pull on it, as a test of
the strength of the two
parties. They call it a
tug-of-war. Many a hard-
working man and: woman
in each day’s toil is pulling a tug-of-war, with
death for an antagonist. Thev fail to take proper
care of their health. When they suffer from in-
digestion or a slight bilious attack they “ wear it
out.” After a while these disorders wear out the
reckless man or woman, and the result is some
serious disease develops. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a medicine that finds its way o every
part. They commence at the foundation of the
disease ; they get at the cause. They make the
appetite healthy, the digestion perfect, the liver
active, and the blood pure. “ I have suffered for
the last year or more from sluggish liver and indi-
gestion, for which I had tried many medicines,
without obtaining any relief therefrom,” writes A.
Murray, of Albert Park, Vic. “The complaints
were most troublesome and obstinate, and it
seemed as if I had to take it as the inevitable,
until I tried Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, which
I did about three months ago. After using two
bottles I feel quite well again. I have also found
them A 1 for purifying the blood. I have suffered
from pimply eruptions, but since using the pills
the pimples have all disappeared. They are a
good medicine, and seem to benefit one in many
ways, and I can conscientiously give them a good
word wherever I go.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a positive cure for biliousness, indiges-
tion, dyspepsia, constipation, sick headache, liver
diseases, sallow complexion, kidney troubles,
gravel, gall stones, jaundice, flatulency, foul
breath, influenza, female ailments, piles, pimples,
boils, blotches, scrofula, eczema, rheumatism, neu-
ralgia, and impure blood. Sold by chemists and
storekeepers, Is. l|d. per bottle or six bottles
6s. 6d. Sole Proprietors, The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd. Australian Depdt, 58 Pitt-str., Sydney.
A remarkable experience was that of
James M ‘Coy, the sick sailor rescued from the
Sierra. Nevada, recently wrecked near Port Phillip
Quarantine Station. Seriously injured at the be-
ginning of the voyage, M‘Coy was lying incapaci-
tated in his bunk when the vessel, in a gale, took
the rocks at two in the morning. Yet though 23 out
of 28 perished, the invalid, through the heroism
of his mates, got to shore and was taken to the
Quarantine Station to recover alongside the
bubonic who had reached there the
day before. Not far from where the Sierra
Nevada struck is the Formosa rock, behind which
the s.s. Cheviot was lost, with all hands, a few
years ago.
K
m
Red Bird Crank Bracket.
Found only on
1900 Model
Red Birds.
As illustrated, the complete tearing is in a steel barrel, which holds the cups
in perfect alignment. Thus the bottom bracket bolts cannot distort the bearing
cups and cause them to run tight. The cups are designed so the axis of the balls
and axle are parallel, and the balls run in a continuous oil bath.
The cranks are secured to axle by means of a hexagon taper, which is further
secured by means of a cap screw.
The cranks cannot possibly work loose as with other forms of attachment.
This is another part where the Bed Bird is years in advance.
and Guaranteed by Cbe 6oold Bicycle Co., Ctd.,
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Hjjents—everywhere.
Auetaalasian Blanches :
64 KING-ST ., Sydney, Head Office in Australia,
261 Couins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Edward-st. Brisbane, Q,
Vr- '"ELLINGTON N--Z.
PRICES: £lO, £l5, £2O, and £3O.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Second (Cup) day of S.A.J.O. autumn races
attracted a big crowd. Money put on six races totalled
£16,043 10s. as against £11,643 on first day. Last year’s
Oup Day investments showed £17,486. As was the case
on previous Saturday the biggest race (S.A. Cup) paid the
biggest div., £27 15s. Winner—Tarquin—was a2sto 1
against chance. Amount realised by the machine for this
event was 1 5464 10s. as against £5576 15s. on previous
year’s Cup. Sixteen starters had following sums opposite
their names :—Paul Pry £378 10s., La Carabine £2019 155.,
Tarquin £lB2, Veneda • 339 10s., Dirk H immerheda £134,
The Bride .>.432, Gunga Din £253 55., Fleet Admiral
£2Ol 10s., Wild Raven £286, Nitrous £49, Viking £lOO 55.,
Peeress £93 155., Merry Pilgrim £477, Trapper £92,
Princess of Wales £370 55., Ishmael £55 15s.
• • » •
S.A. Govt, declines to proclaim even a half
holiday for Adelaide Cup-day, and, as business people
follow suit, what was once a gay festival is now a gala day
for purely sporting people only. This gradual degenera-
tion was originally due to ex-Premier Kingston, who
foreclosed on the holiday business in a pious moment to
please his W.O.T.U. friends. One of the strangest traits
in Kingston’s character is his peculiar aversion to sport-
ing men, although in his day he was a prominent athlete,
himself.
* • • •
Sensational Westralian Neckersgat-Tarpeia nag
Tarquin won S.A. Cup comfortably, ana sprang a big sur-
prise. He had top weight (9st.), and humped it to the
front in great style. Tarquin was bred by Sir Thomas
Elder, and the horse’s success stamps him everything that
Westralian form indicated. He came over to the East
carrying, a big stigma, having been eliminated from an
important race after the public had piled cash on him.
He was one of the best “ fancies” for the Australian Cup
upon arriving in Adelaide, but again went out owing,
’twas said, to his then owner’s (Towton) serious illness.
Later the horse-racing community heard that Towton
had parted with the nag for a big sum —Mr. Phillips
(bookie) being the purchaser ; and Tarquin has since raced
in Mr. P.’s colors. Tarquin ran third to Paul Pry
in the Elder Stakes on first day of meeting.
Paul Pry finished five lengths in front of Veneda, who
beat Tarquin by two, which form, it might be remarked,
didn’t make the Westralian’s Cup chance look even fair,
much less the “ cert.” it turned out.
• * » •
La Carabine’s running in Adelaide Cup may not
have been so much below her recent “ form ” as it looks
on paper. The mare likes a longer distance than 13 fur-
longs, anyhow, and at Adelaide she was humping 9.2, a
big weight for her light frame.
* * * *
Ikey Mo cut a sinfully absurd figure by com-
parison with the Tote on Adelaide Oup. Ikey in his most
reckless mood laid no more than 12 to 1 against Tarquin,
and as a rule he offered 10’s with a great show of
liberality. A backer who stood out for 15’s got only scorn
and contumely from the jewelled parasite. And yet the
silent respectable machine paid 27 to 1, or thereabouts,
after deducting its div.
• * • «
S.A. J.C. meeting wound up Saturday. Tote
showed £12,445 for the day and £41,575 10s. for
the three, £3OOO less than last year’s results.
Veneda, favorite for the Fisher Stakes, was jammed on
the rails, and so left the road open for the three-year-old
Carlyon-Waterlily filly Martagon who got home by 2
lengths. Invested on machine, £1931; winner paid
£67 Bs. The Bride was favorite in S.A.J.O. Handicap,
but Veneda won, barely squelching Dirk Hammerhand on
the post with Foulsham’s Wild Raven third. Tote showed
£2401; “ div,” £9 12s. A handsome Thunderbolt-Quality
filly (Tip Top) got away with the Juvenile Stakes, and
Promontory easily won the Totalisator Handicap. Punters
piled up £2804, and the fortunate ones secured £l5 for
every £1 on the last winner.
* * * *
Ranfurly’s sensational div. of £lOl 13s. in
Adelaide Goodwood Handicap is the biggest in that race
since D.O.D.’s huge div. of £BOO odd in ’Bl. Neither
trainer nor jockey had anything on, Scobie’s dollars being
on Blue Cap. Ranfurly was expected to break down, but
instead he went through and beat all previous time
records. They run in all shapes !
m * * *
“A. J.C.” : Re Bulletin pars 12/5/’OO anent
S.A. J.O. tote divs. and Metallician Oxy’s disinterested re-
marks. Former gave latter a hard knock. Rank outsider
and all, though Ranfurly was in Goodwood Handicap, how
many Mo’s would have laid 20 to 1 against him ; but that
apart, the tote profits go to supply the sinews of war (the
prize money) for the sport, and the more we have of the
machine the more the money raced for will swell.
“If the totalisator was legalised,” said a well-known
Vic. authority the other day, “ there would be
no fear of any club in the colonies outdoing
the Melb. Oup.” Ikey doesn’t “cotton” to the
idea for various and obvious reasons, particularly as it
would be impossible to have anything “ in the bag ” with
the machine. This system of cold-blooded robbery is the
hottest thing the punter has to fight, and is an every-day
occurrence ; the toe-rag section are not by any means the
biggest offenders either. No sane man (who knows what
he is talking about), or disinterested person would
attempt to argue against the advantages of the tote to
the public who are the main support of the turf. Every
time tote is hinted in Parliament Mo gets his cash-
lubricated influence to work and the thing is squelched
in embryo.
• » • •
It is many a day since Ikey Mo pulled such a
long face as he did at Rosehill (Sydney) on Saturday last,
when Abedare, Foley, Cast Iron and Alix, all favourites,
got home in succession. Their comments on the number
of dead ’uns were loud and deep. Truth to tell, in
writer’s opinion the safety of the stiffs lay in their
numbers, for Rosehill is not as a rule a safe course for
owners to make a cemetery of ; but when it comes to an
enquiry into the running of the majority of the entrants
at a meeting it is calculated to make the most straight-
laced club go slow.
* • • *
“ Gun ” : Quite probable that prospective win-
ners of the “Royal and Birthday” double were among
the successful nags at Rosehill, Saturday. Cast Iron
(7.10 up) won the Flying Handicap from rise of barrier to
post giving nothing else a hope ; the next horse, Un-
daunted, was 8 lengths off. Time 1.16. Cast Iron has
6.13 in the “ Royal ” and his penalty will only bring him
up to 7st. Vic. Trenton mare Alix had a soft thing in the
Stewards’ Mile, and romped away from everything which
didn’t amount to much. The win was so easy that Alix’s
chance in the “Birthday” with but 6.12 up seems very
good.
**. * *
Sydney has been having its two trots a week
lately at Forest Lodge and Brighton, but this week the
Forest Lodge fixture fell through for want of entries.
The handicapping is the trouble, and it is a hopeless task
for anyone to essay unless he has been at the game in the
past, and is to a certain extent behind the scenes in the
present. The ridiculous mark on which King Harold was
placed in two trots at Forest Lodge robbed the event of
all interest and, when the club again called for entries
owners decided they were “not taking any.” The trot
at Brighton (Syd.) last Friday was a good handicap.
Souvenir, on paper looked if anything the best thing, but
Woodham driving Don Oleve made a close race of it for a
mile when Souvenir asserted himself and won comfortably
trotting his mile and half without skip or break at a 39 A
gait.
• * * •
“ Rex ” : Jockey Stephen Tucker, at Tam worth,
recently rode five winners and one second out of the six
events 1 Tucker is employed by Maitland-trainer Cush ;
he should be heard of again ere long.
* » » *
Tas: “Martindale” in a Sydney paper says:
“ in the last 25 years I have found that bookmakers, when
they own horses, run them straighter than the majority
of other owners. You can look up back numbers of the
Turf Register, and prove that in-and-out running is
rarely noticeable on the part of horses owned by one of
them.” But does “ Martindale ” mean only the horses
running in the bookmaker’s own name ? It is generally a
tough job to find out the real owners of a lot of horses
running in Melbourne and Sydney.
* * * •
The streaky M.L. colt Advance, by Vanguard
(whose seven consecutive wins and extraordinary feat, for
a 3-year-old, of carrying 10.5-over a mile-and-a-half made
him out the best the province had seen), was ignomini-
ously beaten in his last try in a classic event. He wasn’t
one, two, or three, but, owing to state of course, the race
was almost an aquatic one. Stead’s champion, Screw
Gun, was downed the week previous by Dan O’Brien’s
Australian-bred Military, by Light Artillery. Books
wouldn’t lay either of them. Writer never knew of a real
“moral” yet.
* * * *
A festive M.L. milk-merchant has a predilec-
tion for entering his early-risers for trots (always result-
lessly). Nominated for fun, as he said, his neddies
couldn’t go as fast as a man, and backers used to laugh to
see-them in front of a sulky. T’other day, however, he
entered a hairy-heeled hohbler, and it proved a particu-
larly juicy thing. Mr. Milk Oh ! and his pastoral friends
had the cream of the market, and raked-in much spoil.
The prad is still running in a milk-trap, but the authori-
ties are unpleasantly curious as to its previous history.
• • • •
“ Scrip ” : Remarkable how some horses “ come
to life ” again. A gammy-legged plater, reported dead a
year ago, won a minor race in southern M.L. the other
day.
• • * *
A long-haired preacher paid for admission to
Nelson (M.L.) horse gallops, and, taking a prominent
stand, planted a bull-provoking red flag inscribed “ after
this the Judgment.” Before the stewards had made up
their minds what to do, the club’s starter remarking that
the thing might come in some day, commandeered the
flag. Then the preacher got nasty, and was eventually
fired out.
• • » *
Scorn, the Maribyrnong Plate - winner, that
developed into a heartless deceiver, will get no more
Bulletin pars. The colt had a bad passage to India, and
died soon alter landing.
* • • *
It is erroneous to oall Charley Westbrook or
Sievier Sutton the father of Australian cash betting
Thirty years ago Dave Ingram (“ The Stranger ”) and J. H.
White—Myra Kemble’s husband—followed the game at
Randwick, and it was known just as early at Flemington.
Those who think pony-racing in Australia a
modern turf departure, will be surprised by the following
from Sydney Gazette of 1842:—“Mr. Ouvenagh, of the
Liverpool-road, desires to give amusement to his patrons
at a pony race meeting. A horse and fat bullock will be
run for by hacks.”
* * * *
“ San Remo ” (Rockhampton): A pacer is a fast
ambler, and travels between a trot and a gallop, throwing
his legs out on either side. Pacers do not compete in trot-
ting events, but are in a class by themselves.
• • * m
Coursing threatens to boom in N.S.W. this
season. Sydney 0.0.’s opening meet at New Belmore
(Canterbury) Coursing Park last week resulted. It was
too early for big entries, but good crowds rolled up.
Lamplighter won the chief event (Metrop. Stakes) in fine
style. Saw at least one queer occurrence on second day.
Two dogs were drawn together—one who had performed
badly previously and another that had only been brought
on the ground an hour or so before. New arrival was
made a 2-to-l-on favorite, while Mo laid 6 to 4 and evens
the other. Writer saw twoor three of the cutest, who never
“ come ” unless they’ve got an absolute cert., piling the
money on the outsider —had a bit that way himself in con-
sequence. When slipped, the favorite ran 40 or 50yds.,
then turned back; “unsighted,” said the judge. Let
loose again, the favorite simply turned tail, and scooted
off in an opposite direction, evidently afraid of the funny-
looking animal running in front of it. A third trial re-
sulted similarly. Judge disqualified favorite, and gave
the course to the other, but, alas for the clever “ push,”
declared all bets off ! Writer would like to wager the
money returned to him that the favorite in this instance had
never seen a hare and had never been in the slips before.
Same sort of thing killed the game in the mother province
years ago, and will do so again unless those responsible
rise to the occasion.
• • • • ,
“ Old Timer ” : Have heard much lately re pro-
bable big coursing stakes, but don’t think they’ll equal
those in evidence in N.S.W. years ago when “Charlie”
Gregory (Acct. G.P.0.), as sec., and the late Gardiner
(“ father of coursing in Australia ”) ran the show. Then
25gs. and 30gs. each were common, and once they ran off
an interprov. competition wherein 16 dogs subscribed 50gs.
each. First prize, 500g5., went to Hopbine, a N.S.W. dog.
• • • *
Sturgeon-Cribb pug. battle is to be repeated in
Sydney; they’ve signed for another “go” less than 6
weeks hence—date as yet unfixed. Stake, £5O a-side.
Writer likes Cribb’s chance better this time ; he’ll train
harder, and, having beaten his man once, has a lump in
hand. It happens—with few exceptions—in the fighting
game that he who beats another, otherwise than through
a foul, comes out atop if they get together again. Worth
telling here that Sturgeon’s gritty showing against the
Maorilander in their recent battle caused an admirer to
present him with a cottage out Newtown way and brought
on a benefit that panned out splendidly. Next struggle is
sure to be red-hot from “ time,” and will draw a record
house.
* * « »
“ Old-Timer ” : M.L. tailor-fighter, “ Torpedo ”
Billy Murphy—one-time feather-weight bruising champion
of the world, has been heard from. He says he’s coming
home shortly but won’t bring that belt he won and held
for three years against all comers. Billy’s story is that
the N.Y. sensational picture-paper giving it wanted him
to lodge a big deposit (big enough to buy two duplicates
of the whole thing), and he couldn’t stand that. Years
ago when Murphy came out here and went under to
Griffo, he had that belt with him and hawked it round on
exhibition in a big, full-length box while the other hand
encircled three or four gold-headed canes. Recollect
what a huge “pot” Griffo upset in Murphy at the old
York-street (Sydney) club ; and also remember how he
kept over 1000 members and friends waiting till he was
found in a chemist’s shop buying perfumes. Can call to
mind, too, that Murphy (on the best of terms with him-
self) asked the referee what round he wanted the match
ended in. “ Oh,” replied that official, “ lick him as soon
as you can, Billy.” And Billy tried very hard to oblige,
but the “ Rocks ” phenomenon knew the game too well.
» • * •
Mick Dooley has again been resurrected. He
fought Jack Anderson, a powerful lumper, at Perth
(W.A.), April 30. A huge crowd rolled up to see Anderson
annihilate the old bald-head—but he didn’t. Anderson
stripped 13.9 and Dooley 13. Mick was top dog from the
outset, and kept that wicked, vicious old sinister mauley
of his in the other man’s face all the time. Anderson did
fairly well when they got close together, but at long
range he proved a veritable chopping-block. Dooley
served out gruel hot and thick in the last round, with the
result that Anderson’s seconds humanely “ skied the
rag ”; their principal was in a sorry plight. Dooley is on
the warpath now after Bill Doherty’s scalp. Felix (alleged
champion of the provinces) still looks on, content to leave
the game to others, despite the bundles of challenges
hurled at him.
• • • •
“Golgo”: Re Tressider and Worboys. Met
Jim Stanbury in the street a few days before the match,
and when I expressed my belief in Tressider, the 16-stone
giant said : “ They crack Worboys to be better than I
ever was, and Peter Kemp says he’s as good as Searle. At
the same time my hit goes on the tried man, Tressider ; I
know what he can do and I’ll throw the losecs. in.” And
results again proved that it’s safer to back form than
reputation.
**, * •
At a recent M.L. sporting shivoo a statement
by Chairman Frank La wry, M.H.R., that he expected to
carry his Consultation Bill in the new parliament was
cheered. There is a strong feeling in M.L. for legalisation
of sweeps.
• * • •
“ Bondingie ” : Boxing experts have been hunt-
ing round for weeks for a man to take on the hitherto-in-
vincible Otto Cribb. Peter Murphy, the only Vic. man
talked of in this connection, is at best a mediocrity, and
has done but little fighting of late. On Cribb’s perfor-
mances, writer doesn’t think Murphy would last 2 rounds
with him, and would suggest that some patriotic Vic-
torian takes up Friday O’Neill. Were O’Neill trained for
a month in some sylvan spot far from the madding
crowd’s ignoble swipes, he would provide a fight fit for a
king. He is a 10-stoner of wonderful skill, hits a terrific
blow, and, de-pite his luxurious habits, always enters a
ring looking like a pink statue. Had Friday O’Neill been
an ascetic, he might have been a world-beater at his
weight.
* • • •
“5.8.” : Pugilist Otto Cribb is a Hebrew,
whose parents (Simpson by name) kept a tobackery in
Christchurch, M.L.
• • • *
“ J.A.” (Tas.): Jackson and Joe Goddard fought
“ the best of 8 rounds.”
• • • *
Baynton district (Vic.) boasts of a family named
Ryan, of which there are four sons and five daughters
averaging 6ft. 2in. in height. The “ boys’ ” measure-
ments are 6.2, 6.5 J, 6.6, and 6.9. One girl stands 6.2, and
another 5.10, and the remaining three just a fraction
short of the last-given height. The old man was known
in the early days of the “diggings” as “Ryan the
jumper.” He could easily clear sft. lOin. in high jump-
ing, while at hop-step-and-jump none could touch his
record of 40ft. Ryan pire stood 6.3 and was well devel-
oped as are all members of his family. Ryan mire tops
6.10.
• • • •
Saturday’s inter-provincial 8-oar race at Bris-
bane was the 24t1», and the third in which four provinces
—Vic., N.S.W., Q. and S.A. —were represented. First
was five years ago, when N.S.W. won on the Parramatta,
and the second was last year, when Vic. triumphed on the
Yarra. Contests were initiated in ’7B—N.S.W. and Vic.
being engaged, and they were at it yearly tillTas. chipped
in for that occasion only. Q. first appeared on the scene
10 years ago, and has since figured in every race. N.S.W.
held aloof from ’97 and ’9B events through a difference over
the amateur question. Of 24 races Victoria has won 19,
N.S.W. 4, and Q. 1. Wortli mentioning that all four
struggles (’92, ’95, ’9B and ’00) in Brisbane have been well
fought out. One (’95) would have been a win for N.S.W.
but for bad luck in the last half-mile. Explanation c f
Vic.’s continued success is that that province’s men have
greater facilities for oar-rowing than are available else-
where (they can go in all weathers and have a smooth
surface to row upon) and have sunk every other depart-
ment of rowing in favor of oars. Save Fittes, Victoria
hasn’t produced an amateur sculler worth mentioning,
and her best pro. was Christie who, though an all-round
champion (boxer as well) didn’t amount to anything much.
Bar the fact that Victoria led from start to
finish, the interprov. 8-oar race on Brisbane (Q.)River last
Saturday was exciting, especially the struggle between
Q. and N.S.W , who were locked together for nearly two
miles ; afterwards, however, N.S.W. went away, finishing
three lengths behind winners and two lengths in front of
Q., between whom and S.A. there were three lengths.
There was a good tide, and the boats travelled at a great
pace. First mile, 4m. 35seo. ; second, 10.30, and the full
course—from Queensport to a point about 300yds. below
Toombul wharf—ls.so. The Vies, shaped in their usual
superb style, and sustained perfect form over the whole
journey, never once appearing disconcerted or flurried.
• • • »
Sculling-race for Australian anqateur supremacy
at Brisbane last Saturday was one-sided. Slack (Q.) led
Donald (Vic.) from the jump, and passed the mile
point (6.20) four lengths to the good ; thence on, it
was a procession, with the Victorian dropping farther and
farther in the rear, till at 2 miles (14.30) he was a quarter
of a mile off. Slack slackened, but still held the same
advantage, and the affair (it wasn’t a race) finished that
way in 23.23. Slack had a stump outrigger and Donald a
long boat. Again the stump outrigger !
* * * *
“Crab”: Apropos the amateur sculling cham-
pionship, Queensland has the credit of having started
these contests. Latest winner (Slack) got away with the
first in ’92 mainly through a bursting spurt near the
finish. Lambert (N.S.W.) had shown the way for over
two miles. Subsequently Slack visited Victoria and won
the local sculling premiership. Slack scored again on the
Parramatta in ’96. Very rough water that day favored
him, for stamina is his stand-by. Two years later Q. men
had the race to themselves—other provinces sent no
reps. Last year Daley (N.S.W.) put the Queenslander
down, but didn’t face the music this time, whereat Slack
was much disappointed.
• • • •
Mooted 20th-century regatta scheme has taken
root. A big meeting of rowing and sailing men in Sydney
last week affirmed the desirableness of arranging such a
function. It is to be of inter-provincial character, and
aid will be sought from N.S.W. Govt. First day (Jan. 26)
is for rowing races on the Parramatta, and second (Jan.
28) for sailing races down the harbor.
« • » *
The late Frank Grey Smith’s connection with
Melb. cricket everybody knows about; but it is not so
well known that he was one of the promoters of the S.A.
Cricket Association, and also, after it was formed, one of
its first presidents. That was 30 years ago; Mr. Smith
was then manager of the Bank of Adelaide. Of the dozen
who were his colleagues in the Association but one
remains in Australia—E. T. Smith, who is still going
strong.
» • * *
The cure of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet,
“Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
The N.S.W. All Public Schools’ swimming pr&-
mierships were contested at Hellings’ Baths (Sydney
Domain) Saturday. Low temperature of water militated
against usual big entry, and a bleak southerly wind made
things uncomfortable for contestants. “Snowy” Baker
(Orown-street) got home in both big events, beating Pert
(Fort-street) by 2yds. in the 100 (time, 1.8 3-5) and 15yds.
in the furlong (time, 2.51). First-mentioned performance
is a record for the race, but both lads did the distance
faster earlier in the season. Brief notice given prevented
others from competing, particularly one known to writer
who would have travelled the 100 at least a sec. quicker,
and the 220 perhaps 3sec. faster.
• « * »
A crack Sydney cricket-team lately made itself
ridiculous up North. At Lismore, they met a local team,
with whom there was an under-hand bowler (Balmer) who
proved disastrous—making the innings of the Metrops.
a mere procession. M. A. Noble, of world-wide
fame, was among the Sydneyites, and absolutely refused
to play the deliveries, with the result that his wicket was
soon spread-eagled. The ninth man out saw 39 up.
Balmer’s average read five wickets for one run. Shute
(captain of visiting 11) refused to bat after lunch, and the
team took the field, where they are said to have gone in
for clown business, and were jeered and hooted. The
bowling was farcical. When Lismore had notched 60 for
two wickets they put an end to the burlesque by with-
drawing, disgusted, and the big gathering of onlookers
applauded. On what grounds did the Sydneyites base
their objection to “grubbers”? That the aforesaid
“ grubbers ” were unplayable ?
* * • *
Plague played-up with interprovincial tennis
premierships this year ; it alsd prevented Victoria from
sending her best bowling combination to Sydney— albeit
those who came proved more than good enough. Now it
appears that the inter-’varsity race will fall through be-
cause Sydney is the venue. Melb. University R.C. has
notified that its members are not looking for bacilli, and
S.A. is expected to follow suit.
» • • •
Hawksbum C.C. won the Vic. cricket premier-
ship for the season and staggered reputedly cute people
who, at the outset, didn’t give them a hope. Hawksbum
were taken under the wing of the V.C.A. four years ago.
* * * *
Bowler Jones has resumed football to keep down
flesh. He is oaptain of N. Adelaide this season. Jones
was a brilliant player whc*n South Adelaide played him
first, but cricket fame caused him to drop the more risky
sport. Clem Hill is playing with Norwood this season,
and it is on the cards that Joe Darling, a fine back man
in his day, will play for the same club.
* * * •
Adelaide football produced big surprises in the
first matches, Norwood being defeated by West Torrens
and Port Adelaide going down to North Adelaide. These
surprises are the result of the compulsory electoral system
which has put teams on such a level that a revival of the
game is confidently anticipated.
* * • *
Champion cyclist Sutherland, who beat E.
Reynolds in tests (at Christchurch, M.L.) for Paris Exhi-
bition athletic gala, was afterwards flattened out by M.L.
League of Wheelmen for accepting “ appearance money ”
in addition to prizes secured from sports committees ; but
matters have since been arranged, and he and Reynolds
go to represent M.L. at Paris after all.


—.— 1 ■
AFTER BREAKFAST,
AFTER DINNER
AFTER TEA,
Get out
your
nm
Tobacco
and enjoy that
Luxury,
n
mn
m
a GOOD eM©KE
10
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY COMPANY.
187 Pitt-street, Sydney 187 Pitt-street, Sydney
(directly opposite Civil Service Stores).
Our Hero Souvenirs. Latest London Novelty.
BOBS.
BADEN-POWELL.
Miniature Gold Pendants, witji portraits of War Heroes.
Each Pendant contains Two Photos. Price, 7/6.
THE MAFEKINQ
8 WORD OF DEFENCE BROOCH.
Price, 14/-
James Pain & Sons’ Imperial Royal Atlas Brand
. . . PRIZE. LONDON . . .
FIREWORKS! FIREWORKS!
QUEEN’S BIRTHDAY, 24th MAY. 45 Years before the Public QUEEN’S BIRTHDAY, 24th MAY.
MYERS & SOLOMON, Sole Agents, 42 Market Street, SYDNEY.
ID* - Send for Price List'
The “ lady-palmist ” had gone through the
usual rigmarole about water-journeys, &c., and
gracefully to round his life-yarn off she told him
how he would end. “ You will die,” she said im-
pressively, “of the same thing that killed your
mother.” A cheerful smile stole over his face.
“Madame,” he said, “my mother died in child-
birth 1 ”
The “Ideal” Tyre Co., of Richmond
(Vic.) and Christchurch, (N.Z.) invite the cycle
trade to send for their illustrated catalogue and
price list. The “Ideal” is in good demand
wherever it is known, and the Co’s desire to en-
large its field of operations finds beautiful ex-
pression in the catalogue aforesaid.
“ J.S.” to The Bulletin :
With reference to the recent burning of a wooden bed-
ing-factory in Sydney, how has the City Council been
administering the Building Act, which prohibits the
erection of wooden structures within the city? Also,
what has become of the Oity Improvement Board pro-
vided for by the City of Sydney Improvement Act of 79,
which provides for the appointment of a board of five
members, of whom one at least shall be a professional
architect, one a practical builder, and one a medical prac-
titioner, which board shall have power to determine any
questions concerning the operation of the Act, and may,
when expedient, dispense with the observance of any
by-law.
“David G.” discourses on a military
matter: —
“Scotty the Wrinkler” (B. li/ifOO) forgets how the
army rifle has, for good reasons, been differentiated from
the sporting-arm. The latter is used against beasts, most
of them timid and all anxious to be let alone. At all
events, they can’t shoot back. But the army rifle is used
against game that does shoot back, and doesn’t usually
run away. While the soldier is stalking his game, the
game is stalking him, and hence the need in the military
weapon for long range and flat trajectory. This f.t.
widens the danger-zone, and smokeless powder makes it
hard for hunter and hunted to detect each other, so that
a present-day battle consists of long lines of scattered
men stalking each other, the victory generally going to
the cleverest stalkers. Sometimes the stalkers Hide and
wait for the game, as in a deer-drive. But in war, the
game isn’t driven ; it goes forward of itself, trying to
stalk the staler, and the result, as described by an eye-
witness at Colenso :—“ VVe bombarded every place that
looked like holding Boers for two hours, so that you would
have thought nothing could have been left alive in the
vicinity. But when the infantry began to advance thou-
sands of bullets began pattering about, and the enemy’s
guns pitched shells all over the place—where from no one
could see. I never saw a Boer all day, and I don’t think
anyone else did.” That is the perfection of stalking—
finding where the game will pass, and instead of going to
seek it, waiting for it and remaining hidden. Also, the
effect of artillery is muqh overrated. A shell bursts and
throws up an imposing cloud of dust, but the chances are
about 1000 to 1 it hits no one. If a man is standing
right in front of a bursting shell—not near enough to be
scorched—it is 7 to I on the average that none of the
splinters will hit him.
Writes a N.S.W. Mounted Rifles officer to
a friend in Sydney under date March 31, from
Bloemfontein:
Our correspondents keep a good dealtogether, and have
had quite a number of thrilling experiences. I don’t think
any of them will be sorry to get back to sunny N.S.
Wales. There was some excitement caused the other day,
when two war correspondents had a falling out. It seems
that one of them missed a large sum of money out of his
pockets during the night, and suspected his friend. In-
formation was given to the police, and the other corres-
pondent arrested. Afterwards the charge was withdrawn,
but, unfortunately, the arrested one made an accusation
to the Provost-Marshal that his accuser had been drink-
ing with “Tommies,” a terrible offence here. So the
arrested one is on his way to Capetown, and his accuser
has had his licence cancelled. This has caused a great
deal of regret, as the gentleman who had his licence can-
celled is a favorite and a very big-hearted man.
Now who could be the journalist who missed “ a
large sum of money”? Also who is the “big-
hearted man ” who boozed-up “ Tommy ” ?
‘ A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
•Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Norddeutscher Lloyd, with its projected
steamer of 706 ft. long, is going one better than the
White Star Co. with its 704 ft. Oceanic. The new
monster is to get a 24-knot (27i-mile) speed out of
an indicated 44,000 h.p.
Do you fish ? Then go to Mick Simmons,
the leading house for tackle. Do you box ? Then
go to Mick’s for the best boxing gloves at the
lowest price. Are you the secretary of a cricket,
football, lacrosse, or golf club ? Then you will be
best suited by going to Simmons for your material.
If you’re dead shot or a bad one, you can get the
best of guns, revolvers and rifles at Simmons for
a lower price than is obtainable elsewhere.*
Fifty-seven years ago The Mutual Life of
New York started out to do business without any
capital, since which it has turned over pretty
nearly 200 million pounds sterling and holds for
the benefit of its members close on 62 millions. It
has distributed among policy-holders and their
representatives about 106 millions, more than 60
millions of it going to living policy-holders, so that
the old wheeze that in life assurance a man has to
“die to win’’has been exploded. The cost of
running this big corporation, including commis-
sions and taxes, comes to over 30 millions, and the
amount received for investments in the shape of
interest, dividends and rents totals 41i millions,
so that there is a good balance on the side of profit
in the working. That is the record shown in the
Consolidated Revenue Account from Feb. 1,1843,
to Dec. 31, 1900. For further information apply
to Major Rennie, general manager.*
Despite the shocking example of Sydney
and the fact that the local rats were known to be
bubonic, the plague, when it struck Melbourne the
other day, found the smellful city with no hospital
ready—not even a temporary accom modat ion -house
—so that patients and contacts, after being driven
3 miles in a hearse-like conveyance, had to be
planted in the forepeak of the gunboat “ Albert ”
for a 6-hour voyage to quarantine. In spite of the
warnings dinned into their ears for months, the 24
councils have done practically nothing, and their
sole attempt to cope with the übiquitous rat has
degenerated into a scheme well-calculated for
spreading the plague. The offer of 2d. a head for
rats has brought in some 10,000; whereas 10 times as
many would hardly make any appreciable differ-
ence in the numbers of the rodents that swarm about
the filthy sewers, the alleged creeks, the Yarra,
and the four-and-twenty delectable tips. Also,
the “household inspection” has been purely
farcical, and has done nothing with “fowl-runs”
in small backyards, evil-smelling open drains,
leaky latrine-pans discharging into rights-of-way,
stables jammed up hard against dairies, and vacant
blocks made receptacles for unmentionable garb-
age. Knowing that the plague was at the door,
the paralytic municipal councillors sat down and
observed that they were not so dirty as some
people, thank God !—and did nothing. And even
the wealthy City corporation, when encouraged
thereto by one councillor, who said he had played
on the tips when a boy, and had thriven t>n it, and
by another who considered the city quite as clean
as English provincial cities (wfijch it calmly
shelved the matter of the obtaining more garbage-
destructors. Altogether, if Melbourne shall reap
as she has sown, she is like to fare worse than even
Sydney.
Cable says that Salisbury in his new role
of historical critic lately told the Primrose League:
“ Maritime empires had invariably been killed by
a blow at the very heart.” Let’s see.. The mari-
time empire of Athens—the first in authentic
history—was slowly battered to bits by nearly 30
years of war. Carthage had its limbs, Spain,
Sicily, and Sardinia, lopped off one by one ere the
heart was touched. Genoa and Venice lost their
maritime empires 200 years before the French re-
volutionary armies crushed their hearts. What
price Salisbury as historical critic ?
FULLNESS OF BODY
Is a desirable thing when applied to whisky, and
that is one of the characteristics of “D.C.L.,”a
fine, well-matured, mellow blend of the finest
Highland Whiskies—ask for the “ D.C.L.” (black
bottle).*
Port Philip Bay is gradually drying up,
and in a few years to come Melbourne will be
standing on the edge of a huge amphitheatre,
available for football-matches, pnze-fignts, battles
or other forms of public amusement. An old
resident of Brighton finds that a fence erected in
1865, is now 12 feet further from high water than
when first bnilt.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“Elis’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
. - GEO. W. ELLIS.
Proprietor
IF you are dissatisfied
■ with your Drapbr call in or write to us for
our New Season’s Patterns and Prices.
HORDERN’S lead the van.
A ljd. Post will place you Djj++ ©+ FOR
in communication with us. rill oli EVER.
Please Mention Thb Bulletin.
“A TRIP TO THE RACES.”
(Human Races).
“IMPERIAL” Bicycles for 1900 just landed,
fitted with Westwood steel rims and Dunlop tyres.
Agents wanted where not already represented in
Australasia. Write for catalogue. Buy your bicycle
from the factory at factory prices.
A few Second-hand Machines fitted with new tyres and in
good order, all of well-known makes. A post-card will
bring you a list. “ Duck ” brakes and carriers will fit
any bicycle. Oil and Gasoline Engines for launches,
electric lighting, pumping, cordial factories, printing and
general power, from lh.p. tosoh.p.
J. F. McDermott and Company,
Sole General Agents in Aus. for “ IMPERIAL” Bicycles.
Central Depot—37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening, at 8 sharp. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
NANCE O’NEIL SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS l LAST TWO NIGHTS!
Sheridan’s Famous Comedy,
The School for Scandal
SATURDAY, May 19—“ OLIVER TWIST."
Plan, Nicholson’s. PRICES —65., 35., 25., and Is.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Under the Direction of Mr. R. BROUGn.
LAST TWO WEEKS OF THE
BROUQH COMEDY COMPANY
TO-NIGHT 1 TO-NIGHT !
The Tyranny of Tears
An Original Comedy, in 4 acts, by Iladdon Chambers.
Matinee Every Thursday, at 2.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
ThIeATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC 00.
including Miss DORA DE WINTON and
Mr. JOHN D. SAUNDERS, in the Domestic Military Play,
A SOLDIER AND A MAN.
Saturday, May 19—THE SHAMROCK and THE ROSE.
Prices as Usual. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.45.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Damhur.
TRIUMPH COMPLETE and CONVINCING of
Alfred Patppier Coti)pai>y.
TO-NIGHT ! TO-NIGHT I
New Version of East Lynne’.
FIRST APPEARANCE of Miss LILY DAMPIER since
her successful tour of Great Britain.
Supported by the Full Strength of the Company.
The new tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harrt Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
FIRST APPEARANCE IN SYDNEY OF
DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN.
PAUL MARTINETTI and His Company.
BILLY McOLAIN and MADAM CORDELIA,
Mr. TOM BROWNE. THE NEWSKYS.
JAS. BAIN. DAVE GASTON. ALMA GRAY.
And all our Great Company.
MOU TH EATRE, MELBOURN E.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
INSTANTANEOUS and EMPHATIC SUCCESS of the
a . i . The Greatest Facial
Creat Ludwig Amann Artist of the day.
Prof. ALMOND, Champion Specialty Dancer.
Mr TOD CALLAWAY’, LITTLE FANNY POWERS,
CHAS. SEEL, Miss MAUD NEEDHAM, Prof. DAVY’S
LILLIPUTIANS, POPE and SAYLES, E. SULLIVAN,
DORA TAYLOR,and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
4TH WEEK!
AND CONTINUED EXTRAORDINARY SUCCESS I
* THE LADDER OF LIFE •
Or, Gordons to the Front.
Specially Selected Company. Military Pageant. Storm-
ing of Dargai Heights. Acrobatic Sensation of the Age,
THE HUMAN LADDER.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FIFTH WEEK !
CHARLES ARKT OLD
And His English Comedy Company.
340 Nights at the Strand Theatre, London.
“What Happened to Jones.”
Preceded by “ AN EMPTY STOCKING.”
IF IT HURTS YOU TO LAUGH,
DON’T SEE WHAT HAPPENED TO JONES.
ERIvTAJESTY T B~T HEATRE, MELBOURNE.
(Late Alexandra).
Under the Direction of Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
Prior to appearance of an Important New Star, the
WILLIAMSON OPERA CO. will play a season of TWO
WEEKS, commencing Saturday next, May 19, with
“ PINAFORE.” (Matinee Queen’s Birthday, at 2.)
Ballerinas of the Royal Comic Opera Co. Full Chorus
and Orchestra under the direction of M. Leon Caron.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 6s ; Stalls and Family Circle,
3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
OT. GEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE.
RUSSELL BROS. MUSEE~|-<
NEW WAXYVORKS and AMERICAN VAUDEVILLE.
Prof. W. A. DAVIS, and Complete Variety Co., Every
Afternoon and Evening. Beautiful LURLINE, Queen of
the Water, assisted by Arthur Von Torsan (from Brighton
Aquarium, England) in a sensational under water per-
formance. ALWAYS OPEN TO ENGAGE OR PLAY ON
Terms anything New and Good. Manager, W. A. DAVIS.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
TH€ AQUARIUM.
WANTED some LIVE CROCODILES, over
15ft. in length. State Price, delivered alive,
and in good condition to
J. E. SHERRARD,
Secretary.
. ... . TAKE ONLY
LEA & PERRINS’ SAUCE.
MOST DELICIOUS AND PALATABLE.
Agents—VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., Sydney.
When Field-Marshal Roberts comman-
deered the leading pro-Boer newspaper in the
captured Free State capital, he, with soldierly
promptness, ordered that the policy of the organ
should be altered to one of uncompromising Im-
perialism. Verily, a new terror for the newspaper
world. The Bulletin has a vision of a long rank
of Sydney scribes standing with t?embling knees
before some conquering captain who, after
smithereening the defences at the Heads, has
the fair city of Sydney bleeding at his feet, j
“Journalists, ’t’shun !” —in a voice of thunder—
“ Cha-a-a-nge policy ! ” And presto ! the thing
will be done, and they will return to their offices f
and sweep the fragments of shrapnel off the floors
and open the windows to let out the lyddite fumes
and sadly go to their desks and write in greasy I
adulation of people and principles they detest. |
And the proud foreign invader will take a special
delight in trying his ’prentice hand as managing-
editor of Sydney Morning Herald. Its leading
space he will devote to the very rortiest of French
tales, and its commercial columns will be filled
with the sort of poetry that usually begins “There
was a young man of Calcutta.” And when Field-
Marshal Neild at last succeeds in ejecting the
foreign foe, the reputation which the Herald has
built up by years of consistent gravity will have
been scattered to the winds, and its once sanctified
name will be put on the index expurgatorius along
with the defunct Dead Bird —and “ Mr. James
will be turned out of his church membership, and
Editor Curnow will be forced by a vote of the
brethren to abandon his clerical shave as one no
longer worthy of the holy distinction.
“Banjo” Paterson figures among the contri-
butors to Lord Roberts’s Bloemfontein organ,
The Friend (probably a misprint for Fiend). On
the front page it is mentioned that the old motto
of the Free State was “ All will come right,” and
that the now motto is “All has come right.’
“ The British are here to stay,” remarks The
Friend. Which is probably true —thev never yet
took a return ticket when, gun in hand, they
visited a rich country. These verses appear over
“ Banjo’s ” name:—
That V.C.
dfg
A. B. PATEHSON.


TUC F A 0 P of
flnMi IJibMoh RHEUMATIC FEVER.”
West Australian Barcoo Rot.
“CRIPPLED AKTD BE3XTT.’'
TICTOET IFOIR OLIEIMIIEItSrTS TOUSTIO
The Case of
Mr. JOHN HUGH JONES
(From “ The Australian Star”)
Close to the park, and within sound of the
ocean rollers when they thunder on Waverley
cliff's, the reporter found 29 Fitzgerald
Street, the home of Mr J. H. Jones,
plasterer, and an old resident of the district!
While making an appointment to meet Mr.
Jones in the evening the reporter was glad
to hear he was away at work, for a man who
lias to go plastering must be pretty sound in
wind and limb, and it was a fair inference
that, however sick Mr. Jones had been, he
had made a good recovery Later, on being
seen, Mr. Jones expressed his perfect will”
ingness to relate his experience, and the
.n eat trouble lie had gone through.
was one of the great crowd who went
vT West Australia during the boom ; my
trade w as brisk there, but even in Perth the
living accommodation was frightfully in-
adequate ; my wife and I had to camp in a
tent ; this, combined with the poor food and
bad sanitary arrangements, was, I have no
doubt in my case, the cause, and that of
thousands of others, of serious, often fatal,
illness. I first got a touch of the Barcoo
Rot— you can yet see the scars on my hands
—then I was struck down with the fever ;
in my case it was rheumatic fever, and I was
removed to the Perth Hospital. Here I was
very kindly treated for two months, when I
was sent home and attended there for three
months more.”
And did they cure you 7”
“ They cured the fever, but they did not
make me a healthy man I was like the
shattered wreck of a man, and in a terrible
state with a complication of disorders I have
never heard of in any other case Altogether
I had five doctors, and I am sure 1 must
have drunk buckets of the medicines they
ordered, and finally they gave me up as
hopeless and incurable. ”
“ What jvere your symptoms ?”
“I was crippled and bent up. I could
not stand straight, prostrate with weakness
and without the strength of a little child.
My eyesight became so weak I feared I was
going blind. My hearing was affected to
deafness. I had cold sweats and fainting
fits, and my digestion seemed ruined. Most
foods 1 dared not touch And this was not
the worst.”
“ Not the worst, Mr. Jones ; it appears
you were as bad as a man could be.”
“ So you might think, but my most serious
symptom, and what alarmed tlie doctors the
most, was violent palpitation of the heart.”
“ And did they do nothing for you ? ”
“No ; they were very kind, and I am
suie they did their best, but after giving me
all kinds of drugs they gave me up as
incurable, and finally they advised my return
to New South Wales, saying the voyage
might do me good. But, privately, a doctor
warned 'my wife, who nursed me, that my
heart was dangerously affected, that sho
must prepare herself for the worst, for it was
unlikely I should reach Sydney alive. And
although at the time this warning was kept
from me, I had little hope for myself. I
remembered having heard that heart disease
in a dangerous form is the frequent legacy of
rheumatic fever, and I had lost all hope, was
utterly prostrate and wearied out with my
long sickness, and felt as near to ‘ slipping
my cable ’ as a man can do and still lire.”
“ You did not die on the voyage, how-
ever ? ”
“.No ; I struggled through and managed
to get back to Sydney more dead than alive,
but there was no substantial improvement.
I seemed to be lingering, and a hopeless
invalid.”
“And was it then you took Clements
Tonic ? ”
“ Yes ; my sister, Mrs Hapgood, came to
me and advised me very strongly to try it;
but I had no faith in medicines, as I have
told you I had taken so much physic in
Western Australia without benefit that I
had come to hate the sight of it. But my
sister was resolute and confident, and her-
self brought me a bottle of Clements Tonic.”
“ And how did it affect you ? ”
“ I began to mend at once in a wonderful
way. My appetite improved, tho deafness
and dimness of sight began to leave me, my
colt- sweats were less frequent, and, most
impoi antof all, the violentheartpaipitations
were diminished. Some of my old vigour
returned, and I began to put on flesh, and I
wanted this badly enough, for I was little
more than a skeleton, weighing only seven
stone, a stooping cripple of skin and bone,
and I may hero say that after taking
Clements Tonic for two months, my weight
had increased to nine stone. So that you
can form an idea of what a rapid and almost
miraculous change took place in my con-
dition. One by one all my distressing
symptoms passed away, my health was
restored, and finally I became so st rong that
I was able to go back to my trade. ’’ <-
“ How many bottles did you take 1 ”
I took seven or eight of the large bottles
altogether, and they cured me as you see me
now.”
“ And you are sure it was Clements Tonic
that caused your wonderful recovery ? ”
“I am sure. What proof can be plainer
than my case, and as I have never read in
all your testimonials one ihat resembled my
own, I feel it is only common gratitude and
justice to give you one so that others
affected like myself may obtain a like
relief, and you have my free consent to
publish this in any way you may deem
best.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION
I, John Hugh Jonhs, of 29 Fitzgerald Street, Waver-
lev, in the colony of Now South Wales, do solemnly and
sincerely deolare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios and
consecutively numbered from one to four, and that
it contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish the same in any way ;
and I make this solemn declaration voluntarily,
and without receiving any payment, conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of an Act made and passed in the ninth
year of the reign of her present Majesty, intituled
“ An Aot for the more etfectual abolition of Oaths
and Affirmations taken and made in the various
Departments of the Government of New South Wales,
and to substitute Declarations in lieu thereof, and for
the suppression of voluntary and extra-judicial Oaths
and Affidavits.”
Declared at Waverley this 16th day of May, i 899,
before me,
AS. GREEN, J P.
THE STOMACH GOVERNS THE WORLD.'
General Gordon.
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
m
m
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement,
breathing Impure Air, too rich food, Alcoholic
drink, Gouty, Rheumatic, and other blood
poisons, Fevers, Chills, Feverish Colds, Throat
Irritation, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Head-
ache, Skin Eruptions, want of appetite, Sour-
ness of Stomach, &e., &c.Use
ENO S 1 FRUIT SALT ’
Pleasant, Soothing, Cooling. Health-giving, Refreshing, and invigorating.
NO HOUSEHOLD OR TRAVELLER’S BAG SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
IN HOT OR FOREIGN CLIMATES ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’ is
INVALUABLE. It is the BEST and SIMPLEST preparation for
regulating the action of the LIVER that has yet been discovered, and relieves
the system of effete GOUTY, RHEUMATIC matter, the groundwork of
FEVERS and other diseases, which, if retained, poisons the blood and pro-
duces the most disastrous consequences. It allays nervous excitement, and
restores the nervous system to its proper condition by NATURAL MEANS.
The effect of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’ upon any DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
CAUTION.- See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you
have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. UNO’S PATENT.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELYETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
BY USING
m
&
&
0
V
ft«9'
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
,IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEEJHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
<3-0030 HAIR FOR A.LL!
m
&
*
m
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer.
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., Ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLANDS PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
GROW ON BALD PATCHES. Price, ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. 6d. Postage,
9d. extra.
Washington u. .Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
lE. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS HEMEHY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain oi
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughshave been, properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY - AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARVE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d ; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
•piQbn S(l!p(lBJ0-d33(|5 sS
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grimwade & Co.
MELBOURNE.
Agents—£, rich & CO. LTD.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting 1 Brand; withstand all Bain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out; Sydney & Brisbane.
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
[lack, Red, an.d Blue. 3s 6d per gall, in Melto. and Sydney ; 3s 9d per gall, in Brisbane.


Ni r ißaSSfi)(iSS€i)’S Alfalioe Herbal Remedies.
More Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY FOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
A Great Cure at the Ivanhoe
Mine.
{ r. 0. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness of the virtues of the
Alfallne Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlle, September 12, 1898.
To Burr Rassmusbhh.
Dear Sir.—l feel It my duty to writ# and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
1 suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REMEDIES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although It is two years ago.
also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
whic? completely oleared my skin and purified my blood,
and J am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
whioi has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and It has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original oolor. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, but to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as 1 know
they can Vie depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIF.LSEN.
Rotation Cursd.
Parliament House, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussbn.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attaok of sciatic. I have
recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attaoks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussbn.
Dear Sir, —Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I was thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oeneflt as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
2ll Orown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rabsmushkn.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Alfaline Viutmy Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
nr.RR Rassmussbn, Sydney.—Dear Sir,— Having Just
finished the course of Alfaline Blood Pills and Aifaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them 1 had tried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of my
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THUS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
How to obtain “ Alfaline Guide to Health ’’—Free.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMTJSSEN,
547 George-sk,
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
11 mt'iii m iin i n nlll mi) i’i|| ll n i!;|) i !,■ 4xiLii^l l . l
£
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
.Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, an 4 all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A lfaline VITALITY PILLS
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure tor all
Affections of the NERVOUS SYSTEM, Weak Spine and Brain Despondency, Melanoholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long 1 standing. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
ALT ALINE BLOOD PILLS
will oure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. .BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness. Price Is 6d.,
* 35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING- ••
Patrons of Herr Pass-
Herbs anywhere.
aerr JtCassmussen, V’p-to-Pate Herbalist.
IMPORTANT
■ ■■WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
Alf aline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR R ASSM USSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ ALF ALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLATNTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen>
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVICE FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSIHUSSeiI.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus—
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent free.
Rescued from Nervous Suffering.
Mr. THOMAS MUDIMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
Ktreet, Sydney, stales, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory
Declaration.
I, THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 827 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no avail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of llkhr Rass-
mcsskn’s Purri,y Hkrbal ALKALINE VITALITY PILLS,
which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and althoiuh
this is over five years ago I have remained well ever since.
The ALFALrNE PILLS also cured my wife, and T make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
out most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant ours
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills— Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful R medy for . outfits, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6a.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, verT
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and-
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage-This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office - 547 GEORGE ST., SyOHSH,
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS ; #
n
m
nm


W. T. Stead says in his Review that all
the generals who fought at Waterloo were under
50 years of age. Now Blucher, who played a con.
siderable part in that hard pounding match, was
73, and was in the saddle for 16 hours on the
memorable day.;
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd.,
reports for week ended May 12th that the marsupial
season is now in full blast with plenty of choice skins giv-
ing promise of a good time at Wednesday’s sale. On May
2nd (excluding possums) out of 57,000 skins offered by
the various brokers, 19,000—about s—were$ —were on the Co.’s
catalogue—good evidence in favor of the N.Z.L. & M.A.
Co.’s claim to be the leading fur skin brokers of the local
market. Hides and sheepskins were weaker. Queensland
butcher’s and factory and N.S.W. sloppy hides fell by £d.
while N.S.W. lots of good quality also came down by Jd.
with a tendency to drop still lower. Full-wools and faulty
lots are fully id. down, while half-growths, though not
down, are not in such strong request as during the last few
weeks. Next auction may find an improvement, but,
meanwhile, the market is decidedly irregular. Hair also
declined fully id. to Jd. per lb. Bones and horns had fair
competition and glue stocks in good demand and remain-
ing firm. The tallow market was also irregular but no
serious decline eventuated, as prime sorts were bought tin
freely at late rates although medium sorts were hardly so
well supported.*
n
RtiptCire
Ctirsd_^
TIT HEN we say “RUPTURE CURED”
’’ we mean it, for it is a fact that
thousands of cures have been accomplished by Dr.
Pierce’s World-renowned ELECTRIC TRUSS during
the past twenty-five years. There is nothing else like it
on earth ! It does the work 1 Have received so many
letters and testimonials that we hardly know what to do
with them all. If ruptured investigate at once. Our
prices are reasonable, but not cheap. We make no dis-
counts. “ Dr. Pierce’s ” is THE Truss, and you cannot
be happy till you get it.
You can get our “ BOOKLET No. 1 ” for nothing by
calling, or it will be sent to you on receipt of a stamp.
It tells all about this TRUSS. Address :
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co.,
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO., U.S.A.; or
160 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.B.W.
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
m
DEAF
w
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deaf ness
land Head Noises, no m tter of
■how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address—A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
r>
THE FORCE OF MBIT!
Doing the same thing, in the same manner, a
number of times. These HABITS grow.
Take One Dose of
Raffan’s Sulphur Liver Pills
Twice or Thrice weekly. They Purify and
Energise, keep the Body clean, and a pre-
caution agamst ill-health in its countless
forms.
. . . JPer Post, 1/3 . . .
R. Raffan, Pharmacist,
55 Elgin Street, Cablton, Mit.r.
At Poverty Point.
The new Melb. Opera House is not to be constructed in
an expensive huriy like the Sydney Tivoli. In the re-
building of the Tiv. much time was saved, but the same
elegant theatre might have been completed a few months
later for two or three thousand pounds less money. The
Opera House will not be out of the architect’s hands until
next Easter, at the earliest.
From Adelaide : Williamson’s new prima-donna, Miss
Ada Weir, has a soprano voice of fine quality, and acts
well ; but she is not a Nellie Stewart, and will never cap-
tivate Johnnydom as a beauty. But she can sing.
A queer old character died in the family circle of Melb.
Bijou during the performance one night last week. He
was 70 years of age, and known to all the hands about the
house for the reason that for six months past he had
attended the theatre every night, being always in the
first rush for seats. He appeared very poor, and the 6s. a
week must have been a severe drain on his resources.
The employes thought him mad, but perhaps they are
unnecessarily severe on the performers.
Actor-Manager Rickards is very proud of his new Tivoli
(Sydney) Theatre. “ When a man builds a theatre,”
quoth he to Roderic Quinn the other day, “ he is erecting
a real, fine monument to himself.” “ Yes,” replied Quinn,
“ let there be written up * Sacred to the mummery of H.
Rickards.’ ”
Sarah Bernhardt, when in Sydney some years ago, was
much impressed by Dan O’Oonnor’s eloquence and his
fine manly figure, to say nothing of his long-lashed eyes
and that beard, and was deeply chagrined when she heard
that Daniel had lost his seat in Parliament. “ Monsieur
O’Connor,” said the divine Sarah, “ ver" magnifique 1
Not in Parlemong ? Oh ! ze ingrates ! ” So the first
thing Dan did when he was elected the other day for
Phillip Division was to send Sarah a fine panel photo, of
his physog. with “considerations of his most distin-
guished regard.”
If Sydney musicians, without protest, permit City
Organist Wiegand to he bullied out of Australia by the
City Council, they should be thoroughly ashamed of them-
selves. Wiegand is an artist; his art does honor to the
country where he lives; and his stipend is below his
deserts instead of above it. Even from a commercial
Soint of view the mean-spirited blockheads of the City
ouncil have stultified themselves —if that were possible.
But The Bulletin does not look to the Sydney organists
to avenge or to aid Wiegand. Most of them thirst for his
billet, which they have the nerve to believe they could
effectively fill, and hardly one of them has a word to say
in his favor.
Manager George Sederer claims to have created Edna
May’s charming “Belle of New York” performance.
Says that “ he measured the eight steps for every line in
* Follow On ’; showed her when to raise her eyelids and
lower them ; taught her how to stand still, how to wave
her arms, how to smile,” &c. Probably there Is a good
deal of truth in the ’Murkan man’s yarn. Louise Hepner,
who played the Belle in Australia, got a careful drilling
in the airs and graces of stage modesty from the stage
manager. He directed the raising and dropping of her
eyelids, and educated her in the art of looking too good
for this world. Louise didn’t represent a real, tough
“ Hallelujah Lassie,” but she was a fairly sweet thing in
frauds by the time her tutor had finished his heavy task.
The public didn’t think that Louise would soon after-
wards figure as the giddy respondent in a divorce-suit.
Lillah M‘Carthy, the very fine nun-like type, who was
here with Wilson Barrett, and has since been adopted as
his leading lady, was discovered by Bernaid Shaw in May,
’95, playing Lady Macbeth with a London amateur party.
The lively B.S.—whilst explaining the danger of praising
amateurs, for the reason that he rarely did so without
receiving a letter next day to the effect that the appreci-
ated one, encouraged by the praise of so exalted a critic,
was throwing up his billet as manager of the Bank of
England to seek fame and fortune on the professional
boards—did not hesitate to prediot a rapid run up for the
soulful Lillah. She has managed to get a front shop in
five years, and Shaw is justified.
Miss Alice Crawford, the recitress, is living in Melbourne
Just now, under the wing of gentle Mrs. Doubleday,
authoress of the Amy Castles boom. It is understood
that Miss Crawford has made up her mind to go on the
stage if she can get a promising engagement, and she
ought not to have to wait long for an offer. All the
makings of an actress seem to be in this handsome
Bendigo girl.
A recent London play is called “ Bush Life ’’—scene laid
In Australia. The hero is a boundary-rider, and he leaves
a bag of 400 sovs. in a cupboard, where the villain tries to
burgle it. Australian boundary-riders are so careless with
their bags of capital.
George Musgrove, it is now almost certain, will open at
Melb. Princess’s in September with English opera, for
which he has already engaged a double co., says The
Bulletin’s informant. Brough will have the theatre for
the few weeks that come between the close of Charles
Arnold’s season and the arrival of Musgrove.
Last time Harry Rickards was in London he met
Charles Godfrey unexpectedly, and the poor broken-down
singer had the gall to ask him for another Australian
engagement, which was a little too much for the mag-
nanimity of the prosperous man, considering that his old
pal Charlie had “turned dog” on him in return for many
favouts. Godfrey, what time he was singing for Rickards
at a big salary in Australia, took sundry oaths that he
would sober-up, and went off upon a wilder spree after
each vow. Again, when he had completed his engage-
ment and gone touring “ on his own,” Godfrey wired from
Tasmania that he was stony broke, and asked for
assistance. Rickards sent him £5O and the offer of
another 12 weeks’ engagement at £5O a week to give him
a chance of getting back to England with money in his
pocket. But when Godfrey did eventually get back, he,
with all the ingratitude of a dipsomaniac, villifled his
friend, as it turned out. Nevertheless the news of poor
old Charlie’s death reminded Rickards that Mrs. Godfrey
lay in a neglected grave at Melb. Cemetery, so he gave
an order for a headstone to mark the place. The foolish
couple left a hopeful son, who is said to have ’listed for
service in South Africa.
Actor Tyrone Power, now at Theatre Royal, Perth,
W.A., sends along an envelope which he received from
England :—“ Tyrone Power, Royal Princess Theatre,
Sydney, near Australia, N.S.W.
“ W.F.H.”: Went t’other evening to a complimentary
banquet tended to a successful brass band. Up till 12
o’clock, when I left, the programme had consisted of 1
song, 1 comet solo, 1 alleged comic recitation . and 17
speeches averaging 8 minutes each. And at midnight the
spouters were still going strong 1
Dear Bulletin.— As the short story has supplied such
an obvious want in Uterature—why not the short drama?
Present writer has been having a course of “ Leah, ’
“ Henry V.,” “Youth,” &c., none of which plays he has
been able to sit out. An hour-and-a-half is about his
limit of interest in any show ; a limit which Rickards fits
by placing the “ turns ” so that one may pick one’s hour
or so. No harm either in boiling any of the plays named
down to one-half. Not one of ’em but would be stronger
and suppler—forcing the best that is in them out of the
actors ; who, instead of droning and prosing along, would
have to rush their points and centre their climaxes as the
latter-day short story writer does. Out. cut, cut 1 —
especially the preaching—and give us acting. Put on in
one night, say, “ Youth ” and “ Leah,” at li hours each.
Then the people who want a lot for their money could
stay to the bitter end, while those who only care about
the writer’s dose of drama could make their choice of the
two plays. This is where the variety stage has got so
far ahead of the “ legitimate.”— Jack S.
“Terp.” : In an old mag., t’other day, I stumbled on a
reference to the premature ending of an operatic perform-
ance in America, owing to our W. S. Lyster having eloped
with Georgia Hodson, one of the principal singers.
When a certain theatrical co. arrived in Bendigo (Vic.),
they went in a body to a local photographer, who took
about 40 negatives of the various members of the co., but,
owing to bad weather, he could not furnish proofs before
k the co. left for Oastlemaine. To Castlemaine, therefore,
he posted finished and mounted prints, for approval, and
received a letter, in reply, stating that the members of
the co. were simply delighted with the pictures—but
giving no orders. And, when the photo.-man had written
again, requesting that such would be desirable, he was
paralysed to receive, next day, a script—“ Admit two to
the stalls ! ”
Renee-Lees, writing from London to Herr Kretschmann,
her old Sydney instructor, says : “ Liebling was delighted
and surprised at my playing. He says my wrist-action is
without reproach, and he would not alter my style at all.
He wishes me to play- at a concert which he is arranging
in Berlin.”
Miss Elsie Stanley Hall, the clever young pianiste, is to
give two classical recitals at Sydney Y.M.C.A. Hall on
May 16th. and 21st. Included will be selections from
Ooleridge-Taylor and Brahms.
Cabled that the Presbyterian clergyman who denounced
Olga Nethersole’s “ Sapho ” has apologised from the
pulpit.— Advt.
From Wellington (M.L.) Times :—“ A large and enthu-
siastic meeting of the Gaelic Society was held last night
in the Trocadero. The Chief (Professor M’Kenzie) was
accorded a hearty reception on his return from the South.
Mr. Macaskill sang ‘ Donull Beag’; Miss M’Leod, ‘Mo
run geal dileas ’; Miss M‘Kenzie, ‘Mo chailinn dilers
donn ; Mr. Beaton, ‘ Muil* na Moe Bheann ’ ; Miss Grant,
‘Ho ro mo nigheau donn bhoidbeaeh.’ ” The Bulletin
has no doubt that Miss Grant is a nice girl, but no nice
girl ought to sing anything with a name like “ Ho ro mo
nigheau donn bhoidbeaeh.”
“S.S.”: Man’s appreciation of leg-shows is a weakness
to which chestnuts cling like mussels to a pile, but, as a
matter of fact, man’s delight in the unfrocked feminine
calf is as nothing to the noisy joy of women when the
hard, angular knees of man are exposed in a public place.
There has been a tremendous epidemic of kilted Scotch-
men in Melb. drama since the opening of the war, and
woman’s hysterical delight in razor-back shinbone is
largely responsible for the success that has attended each
production. Man surveys the procession of ballet legs
with dignified composure, woman squeals noisily and con-
tinuously, enraptured and unashamed. It is the same
when Seel capers in calico pantlets as an in-kneed ballet-
girl at the Bijou. Only women are really amused, and
they all squeal in the same key.
“ S.” : Spencer-street railway-station provides a painful
spectacle whenever a theatrical co. with a profuse leg-
element is leaving. the city. Pallid actresses, looking
hastily dressed, paint-stained, and elderly, all over the
place, followed by numerous Johnnies, all obviously
parading their best suits with the object of advertising
their acquaintance with Florrie, Flossie, and Flo. Actor
chaps are numerous, too, usually looking like caricatures
of themselves, amazingly dressed and outr6 in the matter
of hair. .They talk very loudly, with an eye to an advt.,
and their postures are suggestive of the flaming red
poster ;.but it is when they are bidding their .professional
friends in petticoats a fond farewell that they get in thei»
best work. What a gathering-up of hands, what ai
ardour of compression and expression 1 Here come th»
small, half-pint journalists, the painful fabricators of fly
spot paragraphs about the comings and goings of the
angelic Tottie and the god-like genius of the pro., who is
affectionately remembered for his marvellous impersona-
tion of a carrot in the pantomime of 1844. They mix to-
gether, and shake, and cuddle, and kiss no end ; but the
pick of the bundle is the harrowed and desolated Johnnie,
after the last scramble at the carriage-window, the tear-
ing of bouquets, and the damp farewell, stalking away
with a wet, dead face into an empty world. He is Sub-
lime 1
The best comic turn yet seen in a circus in the
backblocks lately happened in the Ovens district, Vic.
The clown was taking well and giving pleasure to all,
especially with his jibes at the expense of a grave-looking,
profusely-whiskered bushman on the front shilling seat.
Presently, however, Whiskers got weary, and he rose up,
and lurched into the ring, and smote the clown heavily
on the chin. Whiskers was very drunk, but he kept his
end up with great judgment when the clown tried to hit
back, and a thrillingly-realistic battle ensued amongst the
sawdust to the enormous delight of the audience. The
professional humorist was getting beans by the plateful,
and meanwhile an agitated consultation was being held
in the dressing-room, ending in the full strength of the
co. rushing the ring and towing the combatants bodily
away into the second tent. Then the audience arose and
howled ; its yells of delight nearly stampeded the horses,
and when the ringmaster ventured into the arena to
explain, the patrons simply encored him off the earth.
Being refused an encore, the people started to break
chairs, and do other expensive foolishness, and it was
fully 20min. before the manager was allowed to set forth
that the item could not be repeated because Whiskers
was in the lock-up and the constable refused to release
him, and the clown was laid up with a pound of steak and
two crippled ribs.
11 F.” : A foolish sermon on the subject of Australian
actors abroad appeared in a Sydney paper lately. The
writer, “ H.T.,” who evidently holds a brief for local
talent versus imported ditto, complained that “ the Aus-
tralian player has to travel to prove his or her quality.
Witness Mr. H. R. Roberts, one of the jolliest of light
comedians, and a sterling actor withal. Witness also
players who were refused engagement here, but have
succeeded in broader and more critical parts of the thea-
trical world—for example, Miss Ethel Haydon. who has
become a London ‘ star,’ and Mr. Edmond Sayers, a come-
dian who had to work without payment here little more
than a year ago, but is now a prominent and appreciated
player in Manchester. Witness Miss Florence Esdaile,
who was not allowed to rise out of the chorus here, but is
a popular soloist in London and the big provincial cities.
Now, what is “ H.T.” giving us, anyhow? Edmond
Sayers, late of Australia and now of Manchester, is a
novice I never heard of till “H.T.” mentioned him, but
concerning the other people I can speak from memory.
H. R. Roberts, as the leading man of Maggie Moore’s co.,
was duly appreciated here in drama, burlesque, and panto-
mime. We rated him at his full value, or thereabouts,
and thus far there is ho news of his making a bigger
mark abroad. Manager Williamson, for obvious reasons,
didn’t jump at the chance of engaging Roberts what time
the young man was not acting with Maggie Moore, but
Brough tried him in comedy, and he was a fair success-
nothing remarkable. The fact that “ H.T.” has forgotten
Roberts’ connection with the Brough co. speaks for itself.
Miss Ethel Haydon got a show in a pantomime at the
Princess’s and in comedy at the Bijou, and the reason she
didn’t get “star” parts was that Nellie Stewart and
Violet Varley were available when she (Ethel H.) took to
the professional stage. The starring of Miss Haydon in
London was limited to one musical comedy. “ H.T.” is
very much at fault in his statement that Florrie Esdaile
was not allowed to rise out of the chorus. Long previous
to her chorus singing (in Italian opera) at the Princess’s
she had played comic-opera parts. Nellie Stewart, if I
remember rightly, gave Miss Esdaile a show during her
period of management—the “ Paul Jones ” period.
Also, it will surprise “ H.T.” to hear that
Miss Esdaile was a popular soloist at Rickards’s
for some months ere she went to London to try her
luck. If she is a more popular and higher salaried
soloist there than she was here it is because good soprano
voices are comparatively scarce in London, whereas they
are plentiful in Australia. Singers must be exceptionally
fine (or famous) to earn big fees in a land of song. Florrie
Esdaile did well to go to England ; she would probably
have done badly in Italy. And now to mention three
Australian favorites who were not required to “go
abroad to prove their quality.” Miss Stewart was “ Our
Nellie ” before she went to London the first time. She
returned without having made an appearance in the Big
Smoke, and took her place again as first favorite. Her
next visit to London resulted in an engagement which
brought her no glory ; she returned to Australia and was
more “ our Nellie” than ever. She had paid two unsuc-
cessful trips ’Ome before she got her engagement at
Drury Lane. Pattie Browne was the case of a popular
Australian actress who managed to get a good footing on
the London stage. When she lately visited her native
country in a “ star” capacity, her native country didn’t
enthuse over the lady. And Essie Jenyns was the case of
a young Australian actress who took this country by
storm and made a fortune for the management, and re-
tired into private life (as Mrs. Woods) without having
tried to prove her worth in any other land.
A Ministerial rule adopted by all N.S.W. Cabi-
nets empowers Ministers absent in the country on
§ublic duty to charge extra allowances for every
ay they are out of Sydney. Then allowances run
from two to three guineas a day. Parliament has
never been invited to pass an opinion on the
matter, and indeed nine-tenths of the members
don’t know that the practice exists. These extra
payments never go directly on the Estimates;
combined with other charges they escape observa-
tion under some such heading as “ Incidentals.”
The Minister who draws the extra money is the
sole judge as to what is public duty and how long
he is to spend over it. There was a time in N.S. W.
history when a Premier told certain of his col-
leagues who played the praotice for “ all that was
in it,” that their conduot was soandalous and if
discovered and brought before the House would
be publicly condemned by him. But it wasn’t
discovered —or the few members who knew of it
hoped to be equally fortunate Ministers them-
selves some day soon. The head of the Lyne ad-
ministration is sticking to his “last” pretty closely
but there are indications that the gay old gadabout
spirit flourishes in the Cabinet. Far-away districts
involving long absences from Sydney are charged
for Ministerial visits and the extra pay allowance
bell will be kept in perpetual tinkle-tinkle. To
keep the heart of the House soft, Ministers pro-
pose to carry members by the dozen and score
with them. It should be insisted on, that the
money thus used is the public taxes, and Parlia-
ment should demand that all extra payments
should appear on the Estimates opposite the name
of the Minister who draws the cash.
♦
“ Steve ” to The Bulletin :—Re the proposed
demand for a scaffolding and machinery inspector
for Sydney, S.M. Herald writes of “ the neces-
sity which is said to exist for the appointment.”
“ Said to exist! ” It’s a matter of the worker as
against the employer—therefore, of course, un-
willing old Granny feels bound to pooh-pooh the
whole thing, as far as she dares in the lace of her
own everyday reportings. But that the necessity
is a very urgent one no practical man doubts, and
the local Trades Council should ask, not for a mere
stop-gap inspector, but for a short Act of Parlia-
ment, providing for the compulsory registration of
all proprietors of machinery or scaffolding, and
for the periodical inspection of their plant. Also,
appointing an inspector, who shall have power to
condemn and destroy all faulty or insecure scaf-
folds or machines, and whoso duty it will be to
examine into and report upon all scaffold-acci-
dents, no matter how trifling the results. Pro-
vision to be made for debarring any person from
altering or interfering with the traces of any such
accident, previous to official examination, and
responsibility for the safety of scaffolds and
maohines to be fixed absolutely upon the owners
thereof.
Tasmanian Anglican Synod seems by late wires
to have set rolling for Australia the disputatious
stone of the validity of prayers for the dead.
Primate Smith, of N.S.W., dislikes doctrinal
controversy, but several of his clergy say he must
take hand in this whether he likes or no. The
English law does not forbid prayers for the dead
in Anglican churches, but the Bishops as a general
rule do, or if they allow prayers, they whittle
away their significance. For instance, the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, under loyal pressure, pre-
scribed a prayer lately for British soldiers who die
in the Boer war, and, on being pulled up, pleaded,
first, that the civil law was not against the prac-
tice, and, second, that “The prayer prescribed for
the dead is not for all the dead, but only for the
faithful. To the faithful,” his Grace goes on,
“ the Lord has promised entrance into the King-
dom of Heaven, and just as we pray for that
Kingdom to come, knowing that it certainly will
come, so we may pray that the faithful departed
may be admitted there, knowing that they cer-
tainly will.” If Primate Smith can say yes-no in
finer style than that his “ cautious ” clergy will be
proud of him.
“Jack Shat ” on Sydney municipal awfulness :
The commercial and industrial interests of Sydney are
beginning to discover that they have too long been a
crowd of landlord-ridden helots, and have for years been
paying rates for services the Council has failed to render
—as, for instance, the removal of garbage and refuse.
The Council holds that it needs only remove street and
household refuse, leaving the shops and factories to pay
private contractors to remove their refuse, yet these
people pay city-rates based on high rentals (in some cases,
In the principal thoroughfares, reaching as high as £lO
and £l5 per week). And this, by the way, is one of the
financial fakes by which our slum-owning Council has
managed to keep the rates on its own property low
—thus penalising the large tenant-taxpayers for the bene-
fit of the slums and rookeries. Also if the large business-
people of Sydney don't look to it, they will, with the
advent of the destructors, have a fresh plant sprung upon
them, as the Council is contracting for the removal and
destruction of street and household refuse only. So that,
messieurs the shop-keepers, you will have a by-law in
force compelling all refuse to he destroyed, and will thus,
in addition to having to pay twice for refuse-removal,
have to pay another tribute to the destructor-company to
have your refuse burnt. And our precious Council will
thus still manage to keep the rates low on its own and its
friends’ slums and rookeries.
An English jury recently gave a Mrs.
Gray £25 damages on the ground that Mrs. Clark
had written to Mr. Gray alleging that Mrs. Gray
unduly winked at and mashed Mr. Clark. Among
other matters it transpired that Mrs. Clark had
been wildly jealous of Mrs. Gray for a long time,
and at last grew so bad that the crushed Mr.
Clark signed this dooument at his wife’s dicta-
tion :
I faithfully promise, on my solemn oath before
Almighty God, that I will not look after Gray’s wife oppo-
site, either at the window or in the street or yard, or at
the brewery doors or windows, or when standing in the
brewery. And I further undertake in no way to have
any communications or signs between myself and the
aforesaid woman, so help me God. While Eva is away I
also promise to answer truthfully my wife’s questions on
this subject three times daily.
This was sworn to before a J.P. Fortunately the
average J.P. is a serious and humorless man else
he would burst with inward merriment at some of
the documents brought before him. When this
scribe was a much younger and more irresponsible
being he had a billet once in the office of a
religious and serious J.P. A really nice girl
brought her young man there one day. She was
in deadly earnest and he was embarrassed
and sheepish. She explained that they were
engaged, but she was afraid he was of frivolous
life and conversation, and that he had doubts
about the literal truth of the Scriptures. And she
couldn’t marry a man who had doubts about the
literal truth of the Soriptures, so as the wedding
was fixed for next day (she said this with the light
of a great, deep love shining in her brown eyes) he
had agreed to oome before a J.P. and swear that
he believed everything between the two boards of
the holy volume. And he swore manfully, and
they went away quite happy. Then the J.P.,
who had a streak of humor under his seriousness,
looked at the writer, and the writer looked at
him, and the J.P. said, “Poor girl!’’and then
“Damn !” and then he said “Oh, Lord !” and
fell under his desk in convulsions. And when he
came out from under the desk he remembered that
he had disgraced himself by saying “Damn!”
and for the rest of the day he made such a row
about a “ t ” that wasn’t crossed in the ledger that
the writer nearly resigned his billet on the spot.
The Man Who Didn’t Pear.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was brave as any hero,
That in drama ever played;
But his courage sank to zero
When the “ Plague ” in Sydney stayed.
Then his face but seldom brightened,
And his tone became severe ;
Still, he said he wasn’t frightened,
And the “ Plague ” he didn’t fear.
When they said “ Inoculation,”
He remarked he would not mind
Taking on that operation
For he felt that way Inclined ;
Not because it might prevent it—
That was never his idea—
And he spoke as though he meant it,
When he said he didn’t fear.
Now and then he’d try to cheer up,
And to show no signs of fright,
Yet took Someone’s “Patent Syrup"
’Cause “ his liver wasn’t right” ;
For he said he thought a tonic
Would his system nicely clear ;
Not because of aught “ Bubonic ”
For the “ Plague ” he didn’t fear.
Any stories he would swallow
That might chance to come his way,
And the press-reports would follow
Very closely every day.
He would change just like our weather,
And to both extremes would veer—
Not the sajue two days together—
Still the “ Plague ” he didn’t fear.
He had liquid disinfectant
Sprinkled on the office floor ;
Then like “ Oliver,” expectant,
He would call aloud for “ more."
Next with health ideas he trifled,
And with sulphur fumes severe,
He the office nearly stifled,
Yet the “ Plague ” he didn’t fear.
Then the “ Fresh Air” theme was mentioned,
So he opened windows wide,
And with thoughts the best intentioned
Let cold air and dust Inside.
Then the weather growing colder
He abandoned that idea,
And remarked In tones much bolder
That the “ Plague ” he didn’t fear.
Then he heard from “ Health Board’s” tracing
That the rats were all to blame,
So poor mice he started chasing—
(lie was feeling rather game).
From dead rats he kept his distance,
Though the looker-on might sneer ;
Yet he stated with persistence
That the “ Plague ” he didn’t fear.
« • • •
Years have passed ; the “ Plague ” is banished,
And the town from scare is free ;
But this man long since has vanished,
And in fancy this we see :
In the far Pacific Ocean,
On a lonely island drear,
Lives a man with but one notion—
That “ The Plague he doesn't fear."
G H. P.


Medical.
ECZEMAOLEAC
Discovered bv Christopher Mudd, F.L.&, the
Prince of Wales’ Botanist.
Cures this terrible itching complaint Not a
Grease. Does not Stain the Linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 46; post, 4/10.
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital yrith success.
Chemists, or direct from the
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE PROPRIETORS,
Fred. J.E. Phillips. 317 Collins St., Melbourne
FISHER & CO.’S
FAMOUS
NATARA.
A SPEEDY CURE
For Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
Bronchitis Sc., Sc.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co., Hoffnung
and Co., Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co., and from
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Washington H.
Soul and Co., Pattinson and Co., and from the
PHARMACY,
337 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
Sent per Post, 6d. extra.
Is. (id. and 2s. (id. per Bottle.
I Cure Fits.
You are!
notasked
to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. A!1 you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi-
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. ROOT, 28, Endaleigh Gdns., LON DO N.
HEALTH and strength
“ " may be secured without inconvenience or attention
on the part of the person taking Dr. HOPE’S LIFE
SYRUP (liquid or pill form). Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
d iytoday. Are you a. Sufferer from bad health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition? Do you feel generally debilitated?
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
Life Syrup Will Cure You^
Price 10/- and 20/- ; Course 40/-
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis-
orders are cured, and in many cases by diet alone, posted
six stamps. Address :—HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
GRiMAULT’S
inDlAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Comrhs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GHIIMADLT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Business Announcements.
nm
FRINGES,
Natural Curly, from 3/0 nook.
PLAITS and TAILS,
NHn. long, fJe. all real bait.
CUTTINGS S COM BIN Gi
•orltcd up, ye per or.
tVe are the cheapestin At
(ralla for all Hair Work.
Send Color ot Hair.
W. N.^Vigz«ll?
110 William Street,
earner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Cable Tram will stop at Door..
Send stampn for full Prioo 1
Prasppt bUoiitior •« '"’•"u.ir
y OisJai*
n
Bubonic Plague
%
m.
m
REGISTERED.
Can be Prevented
By Using:
ECKERSLEY’S
'fj|enthsline.
All Chemists.
Large Size 2/6 ; Small 1/-
Wholesale from
Australian
Co.
Tlio Life of the System.
BEAUTIFUL FABRIC
THE
'Mil
veteen.
NOTE WELL ! -Each Yard of Genuine “ LOUIS ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-O-IM-S and in no other
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
This is the Latest Type THIS MACHINE
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
Frier, C 7.
L,
Carriage Paid.
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is n Concert in your own Home.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
A Iso on Sale—
-1 Edison Cinematographe complete and 10
Films, £5O.
1 Cinenmtogrnphe and 10 Films, £35.
2Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune fora
smart man.
2 Edison Kinto-copes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Ray Outfits, complete.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia —EDISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
Removed to 1 and 3 Rowe Street. (120 PITT STREET), SYDNEY (ONLY).
W. >J. N. Older shaw, Manager. Nearly opposite G.P.O. '
m
■
Tho Universal Remedy lor Acidity of t. o Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn. Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Kheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
h-eciicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
M R
df
Sold Throughout the Wona.
N.8.-ASK FOR DIN TIE FORD’S MAGNESIA
Ms
P
m
'
[P
a a a
9Nrm*i\fd&
gs
.
% w
ii
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared w th this
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES.. CHE IMS. and
i'UDDiNGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & Lonaon.
\Tr f L\bi ak Agren s; 3LAKEY & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 41S George Street, Sydney.
t tv
-V
'Ortn
•k
111
»V|u n
writing
(■lease
mention
The ‘
Billetix.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointrreni, send for one of Stephenson's
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insdmnir,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
‘ Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
iT .ey impart vigor and potency to every function,
r - brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
1 .sire to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 i
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0 i
Extra powerful, with suspensory
a.Mjl.mcnts 830 |
Ladies' Belts r.nd Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0 |
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and |
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads, j
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to — |
A. D. STEPHENSON, ’
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney |
((
ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd
Price, F>s. Tost Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
T7IOR WHAT YOU ARE ABOUT TO RE-
J- CEIYE, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired tothe wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros.. Agents.
IX WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
STUART & GO.
* PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
262 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 nieces of Woollens to select from.
} 0
1
Our Suir to order at 425,
is marvellous value, made
from all-wool Tweeds Vi-
cunas. or Series, fa>*tcolors
is perfect fitting and beau-
tifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order
from any class of material,
£3 3s. To measure, capital
Trousers, very good pat-
terns, 12s. lid.
Dress Suita, to measure,
£5. Clerical Suits, to mea-
sure, £5.
It id ng Breeches. 2.75.
Hiding Habits. &c.
We supply ready-made
Men’s Capital Tweed Suits
21a.,
l<.-vinous Ballarat Serge
i uifcs, Imligo «lve, 255.
Con ; Chesterfield Coats
all colors 30*.
Exc llent Tweed or Serge
Trousers.ss. lid.
All-wool Blue and Black
Vicuna Coats and Vests,
Ills «d.
Tweed Overcoats. 21*.
Waterproof Coats, full
capes 15s. Ad. Undressed
White Shirts, linen fronts
and cuff*. 2*- lid., 3s. lid.
lid.. 5«. lid
floavv Warm Travelling
Rugs. IBs lid., 13*. ®d.
All-wool Crimean Kh>rta,
ss. lid.. Is. lid. Travelling
Trunks, Bags in great
Variety, Soft Alplno Hats,
4k. I>d., all colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. Od.
Gaps. Is.
Merino Undershirts or
Pants Is. Oil.
Neckties, all shape* ami color*.ls. White <hlrt* to measure,
(lont*' Rplendid llalmoral Boot*. o*. Oil.. 9*. (Id
We like to write letter*, so don't ho afraid to a-k for any
Information. Our book, " Tho Philosophy of nr <*""-
pattern* of all kinds and self-measurement form* posted free
Write for them.
Publications.
SKIN ms EA SES
. . AND . .
Their Treatment.
ACNE, ECZEMA, PSORIASIS, .fee.,
By Dr. ALFRED NEALE (M.D., M.8.C.M., Ed.),
Late Physician to Manchester Skin Hospital.
SYDNEY : TURNER and HENDERSON. Post 1/1.
READ BECRET SOCIETY
—IN—
Hodgson’s Tales of Medical Students.
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, 3s. 6d. Post Free, 4s.
Wholesale : Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Sydney.
Books. Books. Books.
POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
A Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, hound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for 12 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice hooks, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post. Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R.W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh street, Sidney.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
or RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
lI.LXJSTRATED
AuUiess, HU V ATE,
xyITH numerous anatomical
'' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the errand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of hook, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stcpage.
, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
m
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalof/ue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
201 BQURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
m
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET of ßO R o A K R s E
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words mid manners that
win hearts. The Lovers' EncycloptedU w II supply the art.
To live is to wish to possess. You can, the know edge im-
parled by this book unlocks t-lie gate nnd you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the timo y u
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, eure for bnshtulness aim many
othei things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of cminm. love
letters and FIFTEEN HUNCHED tit-bits in prose rmij.oet rv
that, you can find daily use for. 2s. (id. (stamps 2d t'x'rui
will bring you the book by mail, post free, and inci en'ailv
happiness with one you love. An«(.o- > ukii'c ,M I'rm pimii
10., Commercial chambers, Sydney. N.js.W. Mention this
paper when writing
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been awarded 100 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases— -especiall v
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester.


STEWART DAWSON & CO.
The Great Watch, Jewellery and Plate House of Australasia.
FIRST-HAND PRICES WITH NO £
MIDDLEMEN’S PROFITS TO PAY. $
« • • • -• • )
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Auckland, Wellington, London.
No. 134. —15-ct. Gold Bracelet, set 2 Diamonds,
3 Sapphires, £7 10s.
No. 115 A.—Novel Design, 9-ct. Gold and
Amethyst Brooch, £1 ss.
No. E7ssl.—New, Elegant design, 9-ct. Gold and
Fine Amethyst Brooch, £1 2s 6cL
m
*
No. IS2A. —9-ct Gold Bar Bracelet, set Fine Pearls, £3.
Pretty Frosted Glass, Silver Mounts.
No. E64l4.—Match Holder, 5s 6d
No. E73so.—Cigarette ~ 5s 6d .
No, E73sl.—Cigar „ 7s 6d
No. Sll.—Solid Silver Bon-Bon Didi,
6Jin. by sin., £1 Vs 6d.
Best Silver-plated, 6s 6d.
No. 289. —Gut-Orystal Toilet Salts Bottle,
Silver Top, 2Jin. high, 11s 6d.
No. E 6142. —Sterling Silver Saw-pierced
and Engraved BELT CLASP, 10s 6d.
Best Silver-plated, 4s 6d and 6s.
Brawn Half-size.
POWDER ‘JARS.
Finest Cut-Glass, Silver
Top, 14s (id, 21s, 30s,
37s Cd, and 455.
No. 316.—Solid Silver Sweet Dish,
31in. long, 12s 6d.
Others, 18s (kl and £1 Is.
No. 184 A.
Keeper, 18-ct. Gold,
£l7s6d.
No. 101.—9-ct. Gold Brooch,
set Pearls, 10s 6d. 1
No. 16C.
2 Diamonds, 1 Sapphire
18-ct. Gold, £2 7s 6d.
No. E 7061. —New Design, 9-ct. Gold Amethyst
Heart Brooch, 12s (id.
No. 161.
18-ct. Gold, 2 Diamonds,
81lubies,£3 10s.
No. E 3006. —9-ct. Gold Rnr Brooch with
Safety Oatch, Os Od.
No. 185.
Wedding Ring, 18-ct.
(ioki, £1 10*.
IT3. 358 A.—Lovely Chased
Sugar Basket,Silver-Plated
on Nickel Silver.
Full Size, £1 7s. 6d.
No. 385 A Design Oblong Oake Basket,
Saw Pierced, Finest Silver Plate, £3 ss.
No. E644B.—Best Silver-
Plated and Engaved
Napkin Ring, 4s (id.
Silver-Plated Pocket Spirit Flask*,
7s 6d to 60s.
Particulars on Application.
wIW
No. 296 A.—Solid Silver Serviette
Bing, 10s 6d.
No. 873 A.
Silver-Plated Th'stle Cruet, with
Spoons, very elegant, £1 Is.
No. Es2o6.— Ladies’ Long Muff Chain, 9-ct. Gold, £2 17s 6d ; 15-ct. Gold, £5 10s.
New Lucky Bell Charm, 9-ct. Gold, 5s 6d.
i
No. E4B67.—Ladies* Long- Muff Chain, 9-ct. Gold, £3 10s. ; 16-ct. Gold, £6 6s.
No. E6735. —Fu1l kiie Solid Silver Hair Brush, £llos.
No. E64os.—Hat Brush, 8-in. long-, Solid Silver, 13s Gd
Silver Moustache Brush, ]2s (id; Small, ss.
No. 274.—501 id Silver Cloth Brush, 7}-m. long, 17s 6d.
No. 272B.—Gents’ Solid Silver Military
Hair Brush, £1 2s 6d.
No. E6523.—501id Silver Toilet Hair Brush, £l7s Cd.
No. 231 A.—15-ct. Gold
Locket set with 3 Dia-
monds and 4 Sap -
phires, £4 10s.
9-ct. Gold Chased Heart Pin Charm,
5s 6d. i
No. 193.
Set LINKS,
9ct., 15s 6d ;
15et.,£l 10s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 230. —Compass.
15-ct Gold, £2 10s.
9-et. Gold, £1 6s ; Silver,, fls Ad.
No. 200 A.—Set Links,
9-ct. Gold, 18s 6d ;
15-ct. Gold, £llss ;
Silver, 6s 6d.
fl-cfc. Gold Wishbone Pin Charm, 6s 6d.
m
No. 262.—Cross.
9-ct. Gold, £lls; 16ct.,
£llss.
No. 275.—Paper Knife, Solid Silver Handle, Ivory Blade,
12Jin., 10s 6d.
No. 396—Elegant Silver-Plated Bread Fork, llin. long, Pearl Handle, 14s Gd.
No. 327.—501 id Silver Glove Hook, 3J
long, 2s 6d.
No. 148.—Solid Gold Bracelet, 3 Diamonds, 4 Rubies,
£4 4s.
m
No. 176 A.
Lady’s or Gent.’s 18-ct.
Gold Band Ring,
£1 Is to £2 ;
Set with 3 Fine Opals,
15ct., £2 ss.
The New Lucky Bells. .The Latest London Novelty.
No. 756.—9-ct. Gold 5-bell Bracelet, £1 10s ; Do., 3 Bells,
£1 5a 3-bell Brooch to Match, 12s 6d.
No. E 7458.
18-ct. Gold Diamond
and Sapphire King,
£l los.
No. 138 A Design. 9-ct. Gold Bracelet, £llss.
No. E 3781.
Superior Design and Plating, Full-size
Tea and Coffee Service, 4 Pieces,
£7 10a.
I No. E 8450.
Finest jEnglish Out-glass Claret
Jug yith Best Silver-Plated
' Mounts, £2 10s.
No. E 6819.
Silver-Plated Tea Pot
Elegantly Engraved,
i7s6d.
No. E 3184.
Silver-Plated and Polished Oak
Biscuit Barrel, 14s 6d.
No. E3792.'
Superior Design and Plating, Full-size
Tea and Coffee Service,
4 Pieces, £8 10s.
NOTE. —The various illustrations shown above hre engraved from the articles direct.
be forwarded (carriage paid) on receipt of remittance.
Intending purchasers may rely on the new and exquisite character of the goods, any of which will
NEW OF SPECIALITIES (80 pages), POST FREE.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 George-st. & Strand,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


NATURES PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
For the many complaints arising from Habitual Constipation,
there is nothing like
CALIFORNIA SYRUP of Fl6s
IT ACTS AS NATURE ACTS-GENTLY AND PAINLESSLY. CLEANSES THE
SYSTEM THOROUGHLY, AND LEAVES THE LIVER, STOMACH AND KIDNEYS
PERMANENTLY STRENGTHENED.
When you feel bilious or have indigestion; when you are
m
m
©
s,
Q
OF
t n\s
m
9^
2S
THIS tXOCkkCNT MIMCOY PRIStNTa
O (X.UNII IMI IVSTIM CMtOTyAU
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
ANO TMI MANYILLO urt ITi y
OltPCk OOuO* AND HCAOAOHII AMO PAI
VtMT #CVtA«; TO AOT OChUY »CT
PROMPTLY ONTHI
KIDNEYS. LIVER ANQ BOWELS.
m
s
PRICE !#• I*M
suffering from depression, loss
of appetite, feverishness, head-
ache; when the liver and bowels
are sluggish and inactive, you
are, in nine cases out of ten,
suffering from constipation,
either through neglect or, at
the other extreme, through
excessive drugging or pill
v aking: you want a medicine
that will make the organs act
as Nature prompts them to act
when they are in a healthy
condition. California Syrup of
Figs (the original and genuine)
supplies the want. It is both
pleasant to the taste —a luxury
as much as a medicine—and
an unfailing remedy. It acts
as Nature does. It does not
gripe, nauseate, or weaken. It
gives relief pleasantly, leaving
the liver, kidneys and bowels
permanently benefited, so that
its use may be discontinued as
soon as the system is relieved
and cleansed. There is no dis-
comfort or inconvenience. It
simply aids and seconds Nature,
and its results are healthful
regularity, and total freedom
from dangerous impurities in the system. That is why
doctors recommend its use.
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS
is a positively reliable, and at the same time the most
agreeable, remedy for Constipation, Sluggish Liver,
Biliousness, Indigestion, Depression, Feverishness,
Loss of Appetite, Headache, and all kindred complaints,
speedily restoring health, appetite, energy and good spirits.
A boon to the busy man; grateful to delicate persons; a
treat to children. .
THE GOOD IT DOES IS PERMANENT.
In order to get its beneficial effects you must take the genuine remed
Remember the full titIe—CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS-and refuse inferior
substitutes. Every package of the genuine bears the Name and Trade Mark
of the Sole Manufacturers, the California Fig Syruf Co.
Of all Chemists and Stores, is. ljd. and is. yd. per bottle.
DEPOT:—32 SNOW HILL, LONDON, EN6.
Australian Colonies—Of all leading Wholesale Houses.
Reparation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ He’s dead,” said the Wi ' —the widow —to the
other woman. She spoke dm-y, standing motion-
less. The other woman looked at her uncompre-
hendingly.
“ Dead ! He !” she said.
She stared round the room—his study—and sank
into a chair, repeating “ Dead ! ”
“ Yes,” said the wife listlessly.
“ When ?” asked the other woman.
“Last night,” said the wife. “You knew we
expected it, didn’t you ?”
“ Yes,” the other replied. “ But I can’t realise
it. It’s —it’s so impossible.”
“It has happened, however,” said the wife. She
leant against the mantelpiece, looking into the
fire. In her light eyes tears welled up and over-
flowed. She wiped them away with a wet hand-
kerchief.
“Can I do anything for you?” asked the other
woman, with a movement of pity. Her own eyes
were-dry ; from her strong face all color had faded,
leaving the scarlet of her lips and heavy darkness
of hair and brow and eyes intensified by its pallor..
The wife shook her head. ‘ ‘ Thank you ;my
brother is with me,’’she said. “There is nothing.”
There was a silence, and then the wife spoke
again. “It will be hard for you, too, you who
have worked for him so long. You will, I suppose,
try to get another position as secretary ?”
“I—suppose so,” assented the other woman,
with forced steadiness.
“Now that I think of it, there is ono thing I
must ask of you,” the wife went on. “Will you
help me to arrange his papers and books ? You
know which manuscripts are finished and which
unfinished and—and all that ; don’t you ? Some
of his work can be printed at once.” Something
of animation came into her listless voice.
The other woman looked at her enquiringly.
“ He has left me all his books and papers to treat
exactly as I judge best,” the wife added, a
faint triumph in her tones. “Yes, he told me
he had done that. He said it was reparation.
Reparation ! for being such a good, patient, kind .
Eiusband, I suppose ! ”
“ Reparation ! ” repeated the other woman. She
drew her breath in sharply with the word, and for
a moment the calm of her face seemed breaking ;
but she mastered herself and added in even tones ;
“ If I am to do anything for you it fhust be now.
I —l have arranged to go away to Melbourne.”
“Now?” said the wife, with a kind of norvous-
ness. Then, with an effort, “ Yes — now, if you
will.”
“ It will not take long,” said the other woman.
“ Everything is arranged. It was the last thing I
did before ” She stopped and stood up. Beside
her tall deep-breasted body the wife’s meagre
figure looked like a sickly child’s.
“You need not trouble about the book-shelves,”
said the wife. “Anyone could catalogue the
books. Poor things, they will have to be sold ! ”
She gave a sentimental sigh. The other woman
glanced along the rows of those well-beloved, well-
used friends and shivered. She said nothing, but
began taking papers out of the pigeon-holes and
drawers in the escritoire and laying them in separ-
ate piles upon the table.
“There will bo rough notes,” she explained.
“Rough notes ; some short essays that he might
have altered later ; a number of fragments—things
he was adding to from time to time ; and two or
three big works completed, or almost completed. ,
These two ” (she laid her hand on two piles of
manuscript) “could be called complete, so far. as
they go. This ” (she drew forth a bundle from the
bottom of a drawer) “is an older thing.’ It’s com-
plete, but he was keeping it back for a time.
Some of the material—that which is incomplete,
or in the rough, will need editing. Possibly ” (her
voice trembled for the first time), “possibly you
will find that I may be as suitable an editor as you
can get. You could then ”
She stopped, interrupted by an inarticulate cry
from the wife, who had been glancing at the three
packages which represented the finished works.
At sight of the title-page of one of these came the
gasping cry ; and the other woman looked up with
a sudden fear.
“ This,” said the wife, leaning her clenched hand
on the manuscript, “this is the translation from
that man—that horror—who attacked Christianity;
morality, decency ” She stopped, and the
other woman moved round and faced her. “Oh !
how glad I am that no one has seen it but me !
How glad,” the wife went on, and she caught it up
in her hands, “for now no one else shall see it
She moved with a feverish impulse to-
wards the fireplace. The other woman moved
step for step with her. “No one else, no one
else ! ” the wife repeated, in her thin voice. She
stooped to lay the packet in the fire. But the
other woman caught back her hand.
“ Stop,” she said.
The wife stood upright, and the blood rushed
over her face.
“Forgive me,” said the other woman, quietly ;
“Forgive me for interfering. If you will listen a
moment” , , ,
“What do you mean?” interrupted the wife,
haughtily. , . , , , „
“You will thank me for this by-and-by,” said
the other woman. “If you consider a little you
will not destroy it.”
I shall not consider ! I shall destroy it—now.
God’s punishment would descend upon me if I did
not. ft is a blasphemous book. It shall burn.”
She moved once more towards the fire. The other
woman, with a strong movement, took the packet
from her. ... ,
“ Listen,” she said, her passion rising up, and
once for all breaking the stiff restraint of her
manner. , ,
“ How dare you ! ” • the wife began.
“ Listen,” said the other, sternly. “ This is
your husband’s work ; there is work of his own,
original work, in this packet, to be incorporated in
the volume with the translation. It is ’ her voice
trembled—“ it is the finest thing he has ever done;
into it he put more of his brain, more of his .soul,
than into anything else he ever did. Whatever
your opinions are, however this clashes with them,
you would not destroy the outcome of a life of in-
tellectual work, you would not deprive the world
of it—even if it were the work of a stranger, you
could not. But when it is your husband’s ! ”
“ More than ever because it is his ! ” buret out
the wife! “ I will not add the sin of publishing it
to the world to his sin in writing it. To let people
be contaminated, ruined by it ! And to bear the
scandal, the shame of seeing his name— my name
—upon it! No; never, never. Give it to me—
and go away, please. Go quietly away.”
“ You don’t understand,” said the other woman,
fighting to keep some control over herself, to ex-
plain. “ This is great—it’s a great’piece of litera-
ture. You have no right—no one has the right—
to destroy such a thing. Publish it anonymously,
if you are afraid. Do not set your puny standards
of the right and the wrong against the magnifi-
cent brain and spirit of your husband; they .are
here—here in this little packet—that brain and
spirit; and you would' destroy them ? . Think !
You cannot. Oh, why, why did he-— rt her voice
broke and she stopped.
“ Why did he what?” cried the wife, furiously.
How dare you talk to me like this ? Go, go away
at once — -at once; do you hear? Before I call my
brother. Before I ”
“I will not,” said the othfer woman. The self-
control was altogether gone now. A passionate
fire burnt in the deep eyes. “ I will not—unless
you promise not to destroy tliis ”
The wife stamped her foot, and cried again,
“Go-go.”
“No,”said the other woman. “ And —no, you
shall not call anyone. If you" do, you shall be
made to hear the truth —before all the world. Ah,
it will be a scandal the world will enjoy ! ”
“What do you mean, you—you wicked crea-
ture?” gasped the wife, cowed by the deep voice,
the blazing eyes. . -
“Never mind what I mean,” said the other
woman, trying once more to restrain herself.
“ Give me your word that this book shall not be
destroyed, and I will go away and never trouble
you again!”
“ I will not promise,” said the wife sullenly. “ I
shall do as I please with the papers. It is my
business, not yours.”
“You are mad, to provoke me so,” said the
other woman. She suddenly took the wife by the
shoulders and shook her to and fro.
“ Don’t you know—don’t you understand ? It is
my business ; mine, mine ; for he and I were one,
were united as you could never conceive of union.
This is mine as well as his. The life-blood of one
of us was the life-blood of the other. Don’t you
understand? —no, poor' thing, how could you?
What can you know of lpve like ours ? Oh, my
love ! my dear dead king ! how could you do this
tiling ? How could you leave these children of
ours to be maimed, distorted, destroyed even !
Reparation! Yes, conscience always pricks you
a little; not mine, not mine. Why should it? I
took nothing that was another’s-wnot yours, poor
thing,” as her eyes fell on the wife. “Our love
hurt no one, and added the deepest joy, the mo3t
glorious completeness to two lives. But your con-
science pricked, my king, and you have made
reparation. Yes, but a reparation that tortures
me, kills me. Have I deserved it," my dear, dead
love?” j
She stopped and leaned her h,ead upon the
manuscript as a stprm of sobs shook her.
“ If only I wera. dead too !” she rhoanod.
The wife gathered herself together and spoke in
a hard, thin voice.
“ Now that you have soiled the memory of the
dead and shown your own foulness, you will go,
perhaps,” she said. “I am not friglitened of your
threats to expose yourself for the sake of— that.”
She pointed to the manuscript.
The other woman raised her head and dried her
teas. She smiled. “You think not?” she said.
“ You are wrong. What do I care how much
people know? You oare, but I don’t.” She rose
and pulled her heavy veil down over her face.
“ Now take your choice,” she said. She took up
the manuscript. “ Either you let me walk out of
the house with this, or you call someone to take it
from me, and to hear my story. I have proofs,
by the way—letters, you know.”
The wife shuddered. The other woman laughed
softly. “ Ah, you are a coward,” she said gently;
and walked slowly towards the door. The wife
stood silent,, watching her. Once she made a
desperate movement as if to clutch at the other;
but the soft voice repeated, “Letters lovej-
letters,” and the wife’s hand fell nerveless. At
the door the other woman stopped. A sudden rej-
vulsion of feeling came—she looked on the dreary
figure within the room. A great pity welled uii>
in her, and she came back and stood before thd
wife.
“I am sorry—infinitely sorry,” she said. “I
should not have told you. I tried—tried hard to
fight it down, but you tortured me, you roused me,
till it was impossible to bear. My passions are
strong and I—l am so weak. You cannot forgive
me—oh, I know that, Ido not ask that; but if,
some day, you should feel that you could under-
stand the love and misery and longing and adora-
tion that made me defend this—if you should ever
feel that, would you tell me ? ”
The wife moved no muscle of her face in reply.
The light eyes stared forth void of expression.
The thin lips kept bitterly closed. The only
movement she made was to draw her black skirt
away from contact with the other woman’s black
skirt.
The other woman turned and walked firmly out;
bearing the manuscript with her.
A. WREX.
Vic. Postal Dept., undef the new manage-
ment of Minister Watts, is very inquisitorial aAto
the genuineness of all privileged correspondence
—press matter, circulars, filled-in order forms.
&c.—which are posted at half the rates charged for
ordinary letters. The Department’s vigilance is
all right as long as it makes no dilference to .the
guiltless, but when it entails a delay of 24 hours,
or more, in the forwarding of bond-jide packages,
there seems to be genuine cause for complaint.
A London paper points out that whereas
a sergeant of the Royal Irish Constabu
lary, who had retired on a pension of £4B ;
year, received £7OO compensation for an injury re
ceived by a blow from a stone two years ago dui
ing a row, a young soldier came home on the sam '
day from South Africa wounded in two place
and incapacitated for life, for which he will re-
ceive 6d. a day pension. Australians get ss. per da j
to act as policemen in S’Africa, while the Britishc •
gets only about Is. per day for real soldiering.
The Irish Nationalists were at some pain
to make it quite clear that they were not hocussi-
by the shamrock concession and the Queen -
visit. “ Our people,” said John Redmond, making
q,n official announcement in the Commons, “will
treat with respect the visit their venerable
Sovereign proposes to make to their shores, well
knowing that on this occasion no attempt will bo.
made to give the visit party significance, and that
their chivalrous hospitality will be taken in- no
quarter to mean any abandonment of their demand
for their national rights, which they will continu •
to press till they are conceded.”
Quite a happy time some of the “ bush-
men ” must have had on their first sea trip. Thus
one, from Bourke way :
The captain is a fair dog to the crew. . . . The water is
kept under lock and key. . . . Finding she had ISO tons
of drinking water we gave some of it to our horses and
the ship’s carpenter came down to stop us. . . He picked
on a little fellow, who cheeked the carpenter, and the
engineer told him to smack him over the face. He was
just going to do it when one of our fellows walked up to
him and hit him one side of the jaw and then the other.
... A riot started. . . . We also take the firemen and
sailors up bread, butter, jam, copoa and beer, and the
captain is too frightened to Say anything.
It would be interesting to hear the captain s
version.
It behoves the Australian citizen hence-
forth to be most inquisitive and particular on the
subject of Eiis omelettes. The noble restaurateur
isn’t likely to use new-laid eggs at anything up to
half-a-crown a dozen while he can buy the Chinese-
grown article at one-seventh of the price. “Chow-
Chow ” writes to The Bulletin :
As a general rule when the wholesale price of eggs -in
Australia gets down to 6d. or 7d. a dozen the hen goes on
strike—on the ground, no doubt, that such a figure will
nob remunerate any self : respecting Australian fowl for her
time and trouble. And the law of supply and demand
soon adjusts matters. But in China fowls are apparently
bitten by the genius loci of Cheapness, and, fed on things
unmentionable to ears polite, they produce: eggs that can
be landed in Australia at about 3d. per dozen! Last year
5000 dozen of these eggs *were imported jto Sydney, and
striking the market in the off-season of the local product,
they sold easily at from 9d. td Is. per dozen.
This season it is anticipated that the importations will
reach 100,000 doz. These eggs, which are much smaller
than the Australian variety, are apparently preserved in
silicate of soda, and though the shells are exceedingly
dark in color, no fault is to be found with the appearance
or flavor'of the “meat.” However, in view of the
nauseous mysteries of Chinese poultry-farming, and the
fact that bacteriologists have recently discovered noxious
bacilli in egg-yolk, it will be well for the Australian health
authorities to keep a watchful eye on the matter. The
drastic cheapening of the egg will probably mean a great
blow to the Australian poultry industry; arid, as
the inability of the white worker to compete with
the jaw-wage yellow alien was the cause of restrictive
legislation against Chinese immigration, qur Parliaments
will doubtless soon be confronted with a demand to put-a
poll-tax'on the Chinaman’s hen-fruit. These preserved
eggs must hot be confounded with the real Chinese
“ kept ” egg which “ John ” uses himself. It is subjected
to an intricate preserving process, and, being wrapped in
rice-chucks; is buried in the ground, where it remains for
perhaps 20 or 30 years. One of the greatest delicacies at
a Mongolian’s wedding feast is a dish of these which had
been put away, especially for the occasion, at the time
when the bridegroom’s little slant eyes first looked with
innocent wonderment on the horn spectacles of the pig-
tailed accoucheur. Eggs of this antiquity, and so treated,
are as black as coal, and have a perfume that could not
fail to reach the nose of even a Sydney sanitary inspector.
G. El. Reid was tbe mover in N.,§. W. L’-'g.
Assembly of the resolution which first raised
Edmund Barton to the Speakership. There was a
great roll-up on the occasion, the friends of
Wigram Allen, the previous Speaker, and aga.in a
candidate, standing doggedly to their guns. The
struggle: resolved itself into, a fight between the
Young Australian and the old Parkes parties, and
Barton prevailed.
“Jerome D.”. That Maoriland, scientist
who (according to a recent “Red Page”)
believes that the sun, acting on the ocean’s sur-
face, generated primal life, stands, philosophically
speaking, not alone. This idea, with modifica-
tions, has been cherished by whole races of people
such as the Aztecs, the Chinese, and the Japanese;
nor can it be demonstrated that the contention is
not scientifically sound. The Chinese theory of
the Yim and the Yeng, or the sexual principle of
creation, is in one sense on all fours with the ideas
of the M.L. scientist. A Chinese once pointed
out to me the close analogy between the human
frame and the physical world, the bones being
comparable to the mountain ridges, the flesh to
the soil, the vital fluids to the waters of the ocean
and the rivers, the hair to the vegetation, and the
eyes to the two principal celestial luminaries. [A
mere modification, this, of the macrocosm-micro-
cosm notion.] Chinese poets also find in the rain-
bow the mingling of the male and female elements
of the heavens and the earth respectively—surely
a graceful poetic conception. The poets of the
West also buttress the idea. Thus Swinburne, in
“ Hertha ” :
“ First life on my souroes,
First drifted and swain,
Out of me are the forces
That save or that damn.”
It is at least soothing to imagine that our ancestry
thus majestically extends beyond what Stevenson
calls “the blfie-oehinded ape,” and it has been well
said that the worship of the sun—the visible
source of all light and life known to us—is the
noblest and most natural form of idolatry.


Weakness from illness
CURED BY
DOAN’S
Backache Sidney Fills.
MISS MARY TRELOAR.
When a woman’s back aches from morning till
night, when she feels all worn out after every bit
•of work, when it is torture for her to stoop or
bend her body, when she has headaches and dizzy
spells, it is a sure sign that her kidneys are not
acting properly. Uric acid and other poisons that
ought to be taken out of the blood by the kidneys
are being left in, and are carrying disease into
every part of the body.
It is not safe to trifle with kidney disease. The
backache may go away for a time, but it will not
stay away unless you get at the cause and heal the
kidneys. To show what backache leads to, and
how to cure it, we quote from the letter of a lady
of South Australia, which should be read and
heeded by every woman of Australia.
“For some years my back has troubled me a
great deal. The pain , was a shifting sort of pain
that would be first in the small of the back, and
then up between the shoulders, and down in the
loins. These pains were so bad that I could not
move about, stand up, or sit down without suffer-
ing an increase of pain. I could not get relief
even by lying down. \ Gradually I noticed certain
other signs of kidney trouble. The secretions
from the kidneys became irregular and unnatural.
As these last symptoms were dangerous, they
alarmed me, and, like so many others, I also
began to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
I must say with splendid results. They have done
me a world of good. My back is better, and the
kidney secretio is are now natural. You are at
liberty to use this as you see fit, and I give you
authority to publish it for others’ benefit.
“(Signed) Miss Maky Tkkloah, Knox-street,
Kapunda, South Australia.” Miss Treloar’s pic-
ture is given above.)
When your kidneys are not doing their work, it
will be manifested by pain or dull ache in the
back, rheumatic pains, sciatica, sediment in the
urine, scanty supply, scalding irritation in passing
it, obliged to go often during the day and to get
up during the night, urie acid, sleeplessness,
nervousness, irritability, sallow, unhealthy com-
plexion, puffy or dark circles under the eyes, loss
of energy and ambition. If your water when
allowed to remain undisturbed for twenty-four
hours, forms a sediment or settling, or hash, cloudy
appearance, it is evidence that your kidneys and
bladder need immediate attention.
If you have any of the above symptoms, Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will set you right and cure
you. We will gladly send you the names of thou-
sands who have testified to what Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills have done for them.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIONEY PILLS
may bs had of all Onomists and Storekeepers at
2s. 9d. per box, or six boxe3 for lbs. 3d., or will
bo posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
or from any of our branches, as follows: —Koiter-
McClellan Co., 7G Pitt-street, Sydney (main
office); 292 Flinders-street, Melbourne; 54 King
William street, Adelaide ; 341 Murray-street,
Perth, W.A. ; Eagle street, Brisbane, care Eliiott
Bros.; St. John-street, Launceston, care Fair-
thorne and Son.
Don’t forget the name “D-O-A-N-S.”
Eczema.
Ever have any irritation of the skin ? There are
many forms of it, any of them bad enough to tax
your patience. Hemorrhoid, a plague of the
night; no rest for the sufferer from this complaint.
Eczema, too; hives don’t sound dangerous, but
they cause much misery to those unfortunate
enough to be troubled with them. Doan’s Oint-
ment is “a wonder” for any such trouble. No
troublesome irritation of the skin can resist its
healing, soothing influence. We know it, and lots
■of Sydney people know it now.
A nurse, residing at 428 Jones-street, Ultimo,
states ; “I have been a sufferer from itchiness of
the skin for some time. I did not know the cause
of it, but it irritated me very much indeed. I
have cured many skin complaints for other people,
but I could not get anything that was good for my
own ailment until I used Doan’s Ointment, which
I procured one day when visiting Newman’s Phar-
macy in King-street. I think I must have used
almost everything for such troubles, but Doan’s
Ointment is best of all. It cured the itchiness
which I suffered from entirely and almost imme-
diately.”
The lady gave us these facts twelve months ago,
and now slie speaks further upon the subject: “ A
year ago I gave you a testimonial regarding the
medicinal properties of Doan’s Ointment. I have
usad this Ointment for various purposes since, ant?
noticed its splendid curative powers, and must
acknowledge that it is the finest remedy for skin
diseases I have ever come across. It seems to cure
permanently in every ea;e, and its quick effects
are simply marvellous.”
Doan’s Ointment is sp’endid in all Diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, ilives, Insect Bites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very effec-
tive.
Doan’s Ointment has been tested in so many
ways, in hospital work, in private practice, and
has proved so successful that a special arrange-
ment has been made by which all readers of The
Bulletin who have not already tried it may
obtain a sample pot, free by mail, by sending us
their names and addresses and a penny stamp to
pay postage. We know that this Ointment will
cure these affections, that it will cure them abso-
lutely, and we want you to know it. It is per-
fectly unnecessary for anyone to suffer from Piles
or Eczema for one moment. Doan’s Ointment
will cure them absolutely, but do not take our
word for it; send a penny stamp for a sample box.
The large size box is sold at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes 15s. 3d.). If you cannot obtain it locally
from your chemist or storekeeper, same will be
posted on receipt of price by the proprietors,
Foster-McClellan Co., 70 Pitt-street, Sydney.
When writing for sample please mention The
Bulletin.
Ships and Sailormen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ye spread a thousand shining sail
Within the harbor’s narrow rounds :
At greater seas doth courage fail ?
Why seek ye not the outer bounds ?
Ye stand on brink of nationhood
(E’en now fulfilment’s in your ken),
But ere your claim to manhood’s good,
Ye must build ships—bleed sailormen.
Trust not at all to foreign hands,
Nor e’en depend too much on kin ;
Your lives and honor—’your broad lands
Should guarded be by those within.
The day will come, for come it must,
When your sires’ ships will cross the foam,
On them and you this lesson thrust—
Man’s first clear duty lies at home.
What will ye then if men you’ve none
To guard your seas and heritage ?
What has been may again be done,
And ye be swept from history’s page—
Made vassal of some hated state :
Your freedom gone—arouse ye, then!
Rise up to greatness ! frustrate fate !
Go vessels build —breed sailormen !
Without your gates, to greet each keel
Of your own ships, in sunlit seas,
Like emeralds cast on polished steel
I«e isles fair as Hesperides. •
Negleet them not ! your trust they are,
Grow strong and, ’hind a freeman’s sword,
Warn old-world greed that reaches far,
“Hands off ! ” here we are overlord.
Your sires they sailed on seas unknown,
In galliot and caravel;
On rotten brigs their flags were flown—
Brave hearts that feared not man or Hell !
The sport of every adverse tide,
Tossed here and there by varying winds :
Have ye lost all their sailor pride,
And lost likewise their dauntless minds ?
Remember Nile and Trafalgar !
On Jervis, Blake, and Nelson call!
Or from the years that lie afar,
Hail greatest sea-dog of them all—
Stout Drake, who sailing joyed the chance
That led him to a foeman’s main,
Careless of wrath of braggart France, '
Heedless of threats of haughty Spain.
A nation to be truly great
Must not alone keep clean its doors,
But have the power to close the gate
To road and outpost round its shores;
To hold afar the unworthy horde,
Men to all freedom alien—
To do this ere ye draw the sword
Ye must build ships—breed sailormen.
n.s.w.
F. W. HU[?]ME.
The Wrong Man.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Strange that I should write to you! I, whose
name is lettered on the headstone of a tomb. The
northern sun has blistered the gilded inscription,
the rain has bleached the granite carving, the
rank tropical grass has covered the little heaped-
up mound, and the moss has overgrown the
wooden railings. The tree within the railed-off
space has blossomed many times, and the flowers
have bloomed and faded, but the characters are
still readable, telling how I died on 10th January,
1882.
Yet I am writing to you !
To you, who saw the shattered corpse gathered
from the shaft in which I had been working; who
heard the story of the explosion, and who stood
beside the grave that summer afternoon; who
maybe dropped a tear as the earth was shovelled
in—for who, beside the open grave of a friend, can
hear the falling earth rattle upon the coffin-lid
without a weakening of the eyes ? Perhaps you
wept—but how should I have known ? And what
avails it; since, if you did, it was over the wrong
man?
My mate and I had worked for months at the
prospecting shaft in which the accident occurred.
At dawn on that January morning I woke him.
He had been restless all night; we were expect-
ing every shot to bring us on to gold, and both of
us had gold-fever badly. The day before he had
received a letter from the girl to whom he was
engaged, and to whom he would* be married as
soon as our fortunes were made. I knew her
writing, and he had shown me her photo. Often,
too, he had read me extracts from her letters, and
I, whose matrimonial venture had miscarried, had
frown to envy him the anticipation of so much
appiness as the future promised.
After breakfast he and I went below, and the
braceman, as usual, remained on top. This was a
thick-headed fellow whom we paid between us,
and it was owing to his denseness that I became
the “wrong man.” My mate and I drilled and
charged a couple of holes each. Then he signalled
the braceman and was hauled up, while I re-
mained below to fix the charges, which I did
with one foot in the loop of the brace-rope ready
to be hauled aloft as soon as I had lit the snuffs.
The shaft was about 60 feet deep, and as the rope
tightened and swung me up, the fuses began to
splutter, and it was full of smoke. Up, and up,
and up.; till, when about midway, the rope parted
just above my hand, and I went crashing down-
wards. My face struck the sidewall, and when I
reached the bottom I lay dazed by the smash and
paralysed by the awful danger, for the hissing
fuses were nearly burnt out. I heard my mate
shouting on the brace, but I could make no reply.
Then I remembered that but a few feet up we
had driven in about 10 feet. If I could only clam-
ber up ! The walls were roughly dressed and not
timbered, and the butts of old shot-holes would
give me a footing. Blind and bruised and des-
perate, I started, and had just reached the drive
and clambered in when the charges exploded in
quick succession ; a blast of heated air and dust
shot pasf 'me, and a shower of slate and quartz fell
all around. Deafened by the explosion, choked
by dynamite-fumes, and weak from loss of blood,
I fainted.
Swathed m cotton-wool and oil, and bandaged
from head to foot, I woke in the hospital wardf'lt
had been like a long fevered dream of pain but
Was over The wind was blowing
through the open windows, and out on the lawn
the convalescent patients were sitting in the sun
By-and-by a gentle hand aroused me from a langor
that was not sleep; a little white-capped nuree
drew aside the curtain, and I saw beside her the
original of the photograph my mate had shown
wirt? n hl de - in / f ? r ™ onths 1 had been mates
with her intended husband, I did not think it
strange that she should come to see me ; but when
she knelt beside my cot and kissed me and went
over me, I did think it somewhat strange. I
wanted to talk, and marveled that the words did
not come. I found afterwards that my face and
jaws wers plastered and bandaged so that I could
not move my lips. The little nurse soon hurried
the weeping girl away, and I was left wondering.
.Later in the day you came, and for many days
after, and every day, my mate’s sweetheart was at
my bedside. One day the nurse read to me an
account of the accident. I was listening drowsily,
watching the sunlight and shadow on the garden
and langmdiy wondering when I would be allowed
on the lawn—when I was galvanised into breath-
less attention by what she was. reading: “The
braceman says deceased remained below to fire the
charges, and when he was being hauled up the
rope broke, and he fell to the bottom. Having
called to him and received no reply they concluded
he was insensible from the fall, and his mate, who
had been working below with him, again descended
i ii_ e r ?P e ’ * lo P m g to be able to remove him or to
cut the fuse before the dynamite exploded. In
t us he was unsuoce isf ul, and nearly lost his own
life, as he was found in the drive shattered beyond
recognition, and removed to the hospital, where
he now lies, while the unfortunate man at the
bottom was blown to bits.”
But the man at the bottom had not been blown
to bits ; for, as I have said, I was sheltered in the
duve when my mate came down the rope to save
me—though he was killed, and fell to the bottom.
1 wanted to talk and tell them so, but my jaws
wore set in plaster of Paris, and my hands,
swathed in layer on layer of wadding, were useless
to me. 1 looked at the card over my head and
saw my mate’s name, instead of mine. Ah ! and
then 1 remembered that he and I were much alike
in build and age and complexion. Small wonder,
then, that, disfigured as I was, even his sweet-
hoart was deceived. I kept silence even when,
d lys afterwards, the bandages were removed.
Why ? Because of my unhappy marriage. You
knew that my youthful choice was unfortunate,
and here 1 saw a hope of liberation. We had not
lived together for years, but her extravagance had
beggared me. t had no other object in view, only
to be freed from the intolerable affliction of an un-
faithful wife—for at that-time I did not know that
the charges which had killed my brave old mate
and disfigured me for life had laid bare the reef,
carrying heavy gold, and made me rich.
L left the hospital Under my old mate’s name,
and when I overhauled his property, which had
thus become mine, I found and read the letters
from his girl, and found that they had met but a
few times in a southern city, and that their subse-
quent correspondence had resulted in an engage-
ment. Hearing of the accident, she had come to
nurse him. Judging by the letter, she was very
fond of him, and I had worked with him long
enough to know that he was, among a thousand,
worthy any woman’s love. But so intense was
t in love that found expression in her letters that
I feared the consequences should she ever know
the truth. But why should she know? My life
had been a loveless one, and far from perfect;
but, with the incentive before me, could I not live
up to this woman’s ideal !
I took a sudden resolution and visited the far
western town where lived the woman who had
been my wife. Had I seen one indication that
she had changed from her evil ways, or any reason
to hope that we could have lived happily together,
I would have revealed my identity and given her
another chance. But when, secure in the disguise
of my disfigurement, I sought out the hut in which
she lived, and asked for news of her husband, she
told me of his death with such an unwomanly
exultation that I left her without regret, and came
back to marry and learn to love the girl whose
affections had been so strangely transferred to
me. I found tlisCt during my absence you had
erected a monument over my grave, and my flesh
crept a little as I read my name in gilt letters
on it.
My wife had formed such a high estimate of my
poor old mate’s character—which now became
mine—that I feared I should never be able to live
up to it, and his previous life and mine had been
such a contrast that I had to alter a lot to make
my future coincide with his promise of the past.
But it was worth all the sacrifices.
Anyway, old fellow, thanks for the tombstone,
though it is over the wrong man.
Q.
CURLEW.
“ Student,” to The Bulletin :
For the information of “ S.” (8., 5/5/’00), who compares
“Banjo’s” assertion that shells travel faster than the
sound of their discharge with Donald MacDonald’s re-
mark that besieged soldiers become quite expert in dodg-
ing shells, it maysbe explained .that each correspondent is
right. The true application of their statements depends
entirely upon the distance..between cannon-muzzle and
the person shot at. Sound travels in free dry air with
an initial velocity of 335 feet per second ; the report of a
cannon (with a lilb. powder' charge) possesses an initial
velocity of 1187 feet per second-; at a distance of 75 feet,
it advances to 1267 feet per second ; and at a distance of
100 feet from the muzzle, it travels 1202 feet per second.
The velocity of a bullet, ball, or shell attains its maxi-
mum at-some little distance from the muzzle, anil then
diminishes rapidly. Owing to the dissipation of energy-
in surrounding space, the sound of the “ discharge.” at
the cannon’s mouth does not travel anything like as far,
laterally, as the ball or shell itself, which is propelled with
concern rated initial energy in one straight line. No
particle of the sound of the discharge penetrates after a.
couple of miles or so, although the cannon ball may then
be travelling onwards at the rate of perhaps 1500 feet per
second. So much in favor of “Banjo”; but the sound caused
by the passage of the modern shell itself (notof its original
discharge) hurtling through the air is audible before the
shell arrives at its destination; theshejl is also visible, espe-
cially by an observer at long range. In comparing the
testimony of war-correspondents, liberal allowances must
-be made for variations in the conditions of observation.
Different makes of projectiles are ignorantly compared
with each other on similar bases. The report of the dis-
charge of the modern rifle is rarely audible beyond 1200
yards ; but volley-firing can be heard distinctly' a mile or
more away. The old rifle-bullet had an initial velocity of
500 feet per second (half that of the average cannon-ball),
and a man was struck before the report had got half-way
to him ; now, bullets go somewhat faster, biit at long-
range the “sizzle” of the slowly-moving bullets them-
selves may be heard in advance, through the air-friction,
on a cold night or morning. In all these questions it
must be remembered that (1) the intensity of sound de-
pends upon the density (i.e., temperature and moisture) of
the surrounding air ; (2) on the direction of the wind ; (3>
the acoustic powers of the listener ; (4) the neighborhood
of sound-transmitting bodies. For instance, sound travels
four times as fast in water as in air. Try to shoot fish,
and see the poor bag the amateur will get*; the sound of
the report reaches their ears before the bullet strikes
them; but with atmosphere-surrounded man, matters are
on an opposite footing.


The Father of Wellington
Eighty-eight Years of Age; Cured of Rheumatism
i One Bottle Ma4e the Cure.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Y
&
7
Mr. John PHmtner, of Wellington, New Zealand, sends us his photograph,
from which the above illustration was made. He is known as the “Father of
Wellington.” He is eighty-eight years of age and one of the best-known residents
of the city. His letter, which we give below, was written in a strong, clear, bold
hand. He says : /
“I consider. Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla a great remedy for the rheumatism. I had suffered
from that painful disease for many years. I was asked to try Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and so I
purchased a bottle. This one bottle of it cured me and I have not felt the slightest return of
the trouble since. I always keep a bottle of it in the house, for 1 find it a very refreshing remedy
for many conditions.”
After reading this letter you are certainly not surprised that in all parts of
the civilized world people cail Dr. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
This great remedy takes out all poisons from the system and makes the
blood pure and rich. You cannot have rheumatism, scrofula, boils, pimples,
nervous exhaustion, and general debility if you will use Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
During the trying hot summers a few doses of it will rest and refresh you.
It is a wonderful medicine for weak and delicate children, too ; it gives them all
the strength and vigor that belong to youth.
AYER’S Sarsapari lla
Restores the Sick to Health.
AYER’S PILLS are the best liver pills you can buy.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
W WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
I a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
g Empire, for Die eases of the Throat and Lungs
WHEN YOU ASK FOR
&
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever, be without this
i mvaluable Remedy, which -saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much, safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hu
Sold in bottles, at 1?. t&dz, 2s. 9d., 4s. 6(1,
and Us., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
sorraiaKT.
=7'
V.
I
■ -".-o
■,
... ..
s
A
oi\ THE SUN.
m- Observatory, Eastbourne—Mr. G-. F.
Chambers recently observed a spot on the sun, the
diameter of which about 30,000 miles.
Spots on the facfe* 0 f men an( j WO men,
although only one4hit| et h of an inch in
diameter, cause more anxiety thaij the most
profound solar disturbances. Blotches on
the skin usually follow in tin train of
Biliousness, Indigestion, or
Beecham’s Pills, a pleasant laxative,
remove the cause. Then the spots disappe^
There is no help to health on earth to
equal Beecham’s Pills ; they are the
grandest liver regulators the world has ever
produced, and may be taken freely, for
nothing but good can follow their use.
!
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing- they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: N3C23pIS9N A CO., Sidney, Brisbane, and Perth.
n
.THROAT EASE
newt W
•g
Sen-Sen(a
FARMNGDOHAVE
LONDON.
IimUABLE TO
SINGERS & SPEAKERS
S 0«
ret
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS
wtll cube That Hacking Cough
That Troublesome Cold
That Annoying Influenza
BONNiNGTON’S PILLS.
REMEDY for BILE, INDIGESTION,
DISORDERED LIYEBi


r*n%
k . n rs
J. iA.\j
Engineering: Go, Ltd.
KLECTItIOA L ENGINEERS,
Manufacturers
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building;. Adelaide.
pr°p er treatment all Diseases can be
CUBED
but not all patients, nnd this depends entirely on
the condition of the digestive organs, which, if in
perfect order, will be the means of producing rich,
pure blood. Then you can laugh at disease. But
if iii an imperfect state they cannot perform their
duties, and impure, weak blood is the rasult.
Hence the origin of innumerable diseases. In
treatment, the main object should be to remove
the cause—not the result, that will leave of its
own accord. Some men are specialists in all
diseases, and can cure anything and everything-
but the undersigned only professes to cure Two
Diseases, viz., INDIGESTION and Rj
n , ra „ ...... , - RHEUM A-
IISM ; and in this city there are abundant proofs
in the persons of commercial and prominent
gentlemen who were affected in the very
worst forms. My method is—One Remedy
FOB.
One Disease, and during my long experience I have
these diseases—resulting in < on.vt.pation, Spinal I'rou'
Contracted Muscles, Stiff Joints/ Asthma, Chronic and
Acute Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, (.'out, Neuralgia,
Liver and Kidney Troubles, etc.—not only Ali persons
walking about but on t leir backs and ir, their beds.
Stiff from head to foot, locked fast, immovable and dis-
figured, with but one desire, viz., tivtft they may die.
Th:se are the cases that I have grappled with, and have
cured with the Remedies which 1/ will send to any part
of the globe on receipt of
ONE FOUND!
with full particular. The digestive organs are made
healthy, the stomach, liver and kidneys thoroughly
cleansed, Umjfi the food makes rich blood, and disease
takes not amlv a back seat, but clears out altogether.
iUH MALCOLM, Specialist,
160 Graftos-st., Woollaura, Sydney, N.S.W.
mn
....IS THE ORIGINAL...,
DUPLEXr PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMI
So
stralasian Representatives:
PSOH BROTHERS,
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
m
Represented in Australia by
BENNIE TEARE and
n
I
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W_ c. &c CO.,
DYEBS & CLEANERS,
40 YOHli SYDNEY
(6]>p. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout irtnn all Ike colonies promptly
attended to.
ROBERTS’
George and
Market-Sts.
HOTEL
Board or Apartments at Option.
m
gd
fgd
fg
d
fgthj
Parke & Lacy Co. ltd.,
nm
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS,
SOLE LICENSEES FOR THE MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF
THE ROPP STRAIGHT LINE FURNACE 1
Wethey Multiple Deck Furnace with Cooling Hearth
FOR
Roasting,
Chlorinating,
AXD
Desulphurising Ores,
The Bulletin
HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL ENGINES AND BOILERS of all sizes, ROCKBREAKERS ROT T 9 pm
VERISERS, CONCENTRATORS, HOISTING ENGINES, HORSE WHIMS, PUMPS of all* Linds WATER
WHEELS, PULSOMETERS, BLOWERS AND EXHAUST FANS, COMPRESSORS, ROCK DRILLS ORE C \RS
SKIPS AND BUCKETS, ELECTRO-COPPER PLATES, SHAFTING AND PULLEYS, BELTING, AND OILS.
lake Steam Pumps
v.>:
ip
ijsu
Single & Duplex,
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping
purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valve's, etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Erg'neers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN - SONS JJMITEP
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
. SPECIAI.TfKS;
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICK* ES
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag „r Square)
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
hea2_offjce WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
|l| OLLOW A Y’S FILLS AND OINTMENT.
_I 1. There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virlnesof these eiand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sulferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 7SNk\v OXKOfU)-BT., Iguidon, jyr" Fur-
chasers should look to the label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
SECOND-HAND
AMI
JJEW FURNITURE
(Best Quality’).
pyY FHO.M us AND
SAVJS fio puil CENT.
El Saved is equivalent
to ±5 Earned !
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the JTO\TP host
«s
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO
Mesas'-. 13 *°° n p “ t »«i»»
