

McEWAN’S ALE. GAELIC WHISKY. PIG STOUT.
ALTED COCOA
R. G. WATKINS <&£ 00.,
10*7 Kent Street, Sydney, 7
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, TvrimW Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Over 2480 .siydro-Extractors Sold and at work
WINE !
WINE !
WINE!
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OLDEST WINE^*
AUSTRALIA.
KST Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° ’B5 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ARE
SOLE AGENTS FOR
BROADBENT’S
DIRECT
STEAM DRIVEN
HYDRO-EXTRACTORS.
These have been successfully introduced throughout the Australasian colonies for Drying Wool, Laundried Goods, Sugar,
Salt, Chemicals the Production of Meat Extract, etc. All sizes in stock or arriving. SPARE PARTS STOCKED. Send for
■testimonials and full particulars.
THORNE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
SANDEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL HOTELS AND LICENSED GROCERS.
nm
n
m
laMifflfl'lia
? 'CIA
★
Sr
HOBART.
Radley s Orient fjotel.
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLH’S GEORGE HOTEL , opposite St
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hote 1
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
*a
oo
V
360,112 Bottles Sold in One Month—THE CHEAPEST AND THE BEST.
prsr
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Xieaaiiig -oeib oi x^adtralia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address,
J. C. LUDOWICT3< SON, LTD.,
117 "ST ork Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES : Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. 3d.
“Wealth of nations” Tobacco
A GIFT FROM THE UNITED STATES TO AUSTRALIA.
The T. 0. WILLIAMS COMPANY, or RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, U.S.A., state that
No Better Tobacco can be Produced
Than that Manufactured under the “Wealth of Nations” Brand.
WORTHY OF A TRIAL. BY '
ALU SMOKERS OF DARK TOBACCO.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
■ Lamp.
HP
ECONOMY IN -
- - CURRENT.
LONG LIEE.
Equality of Light.
complete”' relia-
bility.
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THE EDISON l SWAN
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch : IS Carrington-strset
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot—Central Buildings, Edward-st., Brisbane
The Bulletin
Voi. 21.—N0. 1054 j
[Saturday, April 28, 1900.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


For the LUNGS, the THROAT, the VOICE
. . THB . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
Bronchitis!
and
Influenza!
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
JL. The Larynx, or organ of
voice.
B. The Trachka or windpipe,
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SIN GEES
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain NO cocaine or other poisonous drug . • •
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, In Tinsels 6d; from the Proprietor, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland— post
free on receipt of stamps. Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE RED PAGE.
Other Irrelevancies and Grass-Tree
George.
THE HAWKER he.fi invited me to tea, and
we were gipsying in the caravan on a neat
grassy slope which descended to the Parra-
matta River. I watched the host stirring
something in a saucepan with an iron spoon.
“ Has a saucepan a soul ? ” queried the Hawker
meditatively. “At first sight, my friend, this
seems a question ridiculous enough to make a pig
squint itself silly; one of those absurd queries
which a mad monk might have posed to an insane
friar in mediseval times. But a little reflection
opens out before us the wonderful ambiguity of
the word —Soul.
“An oyster has a soul, according to that
learned scientist, Haeckel; and he is right, inas-
much as he defines soul as the sum of the experi-
ence the thing has received in its life-time.
“ An onion has a soul, according to an American
writer. He remarks seriously— 1 The onion in its
satin wrappings may be said to have a soul. You
take off coat after coat and the onion is still there ;
and, when the last one is removed, who dare say
that the onion itself is destroyed ? If there is one
thing on this fallen earth that the angels weep
over more than another it is the onion.’
“ Gold has a soul, according to the Theosophist,
who affirms that everything has a threefold nature
—the spiritual, the astral, and the earthly; the
two former, so to say, being the soul of the latter.
“Therefore the saucepan may have a soul, and
my grandmother’s old tin kettle may have a
ghost; in like manner, in this mad world of words,
you may argue that a Jerusalem artichoke has a
guardian angel who actually saw the dish run away
with the spoon—the prehistoric ancestor of this
spoon, may be. Sit up ; it’s done ; and don’t
ask what it is.”
It tasted as well as it smelt, anyway. “ And
where have you come from last?” I asked. “I
have come last,” said the Hawker, seriously,
“ from the neighbourhood of Grass-Tree George.”
“Years ago, as you don’t know, the gathering
of grass-tree gum was a promising industry round
Sydney-side. But the varnish was not a success,
and the little community of gum-gatherers died
out until there remained only Grass-tree George.
The guin itself was used as a colouring matter in
the'varnish ; also as a wood-stain. Attempts were
made to manufacture picric acid from it, but other
sources proved cheaper.
“And I have just travelled from the purview
of that Last of the Mohicans. You don’t know
George ? Well, he has the appearance of a person
carelessly constructed of second-hand material.
Lots of him don’t fit the other parts at all. His
shoulders are precipitous, and although it is absurd
to think that he exi-ts without food, the closest
examination of the region covered by a strawberry
oalf-stkin waistcoat reveals the existence of nothing
in which food may be contained for digestion.
His eyes are a very poor match, and all the more
confusing because one, an ordinary-looking brown
Optic, is sad and fixed-looking, while the other, of
a sea-greeri tint, doesn’t seem to be under his con-
trol at all.
“George is of a mysterious and confidential
disposition. He will drag you up a gateway and
unfold his views about ‘as good a little lotter
gum ’ in a soft, mildewed whisper. Then, while
you are wondering whether his damp voice will
give you your death of cold, George will burst
into a smile, revealing rows of teeth irregular as a
cockatoo fence, and all the time the loose eye will
lurch in every direction. According to calcula-
tions he has made with a piece of soap on the
looking-glass in a little bar-parlour, George
reckons that up one of the bends of Middle
Harbour there exist untold quantities of gum ‘ if
a man could only get it.’
“Well, after years of fruitless endeavour to get
a syndicate interested in tha scheme, the old boy
determined to commence operations in spite of
‘the ring agen him.’ Borne years ago he came
panting to me one day and announced that he had
just got the outfit he had pined for all his life.
‘She’s laying down there’—and he indicated
as nearly as a singularly-gnarled finger would
permit, the direction of Pyrmont Bridge.
“Now, before the wager-boat was known in
Sydney Harbor, it was the pride of Jim Richards
and Suggard and Reid and many of the old-time
watermen to have 22-foot skiffs for racing pur-
poses. They were beautiful boats —cedar plank-
ing, joggled timbers, and would last for ever.
After 20 or 30 years service, however, these skiffs
would get a bit tender on the keel and hog rather
badly. The craft George had secured was one of
the real old style, with a keel like a see-saw. In
her lay a frayed sand-sieve, a shovel, a few bags,
a loaf of bread with a piece cut out and filled with
butter, and a billy-pot with a bottom like a rose
stuffed with rags.
“ ‘ What more could a man want ? ’ exclaimed
George, in an ecstatic whisper. ‘Bought her
right out for 25 bob.’ He clambered aboard, and
I watched him row away with a perfectly circular
stroke, and his loose eye revolving like the South
Head light.
“About a week afterwards I saw a man lying
on his stomach on the old A.S.N. wharf, tana
every now and then lowering himself over the
edge till nothing but a pair of of women’s cloth
boots with bulgy elastic could be seen from the
road. After a long peer under the wharf he got
up and straightened himself. It was George, and
an emaciated and anxious-looking George, too.
‘“Believe in luck ?’ he asked in a nervous whis-
per. ‘ Of all the thieving hounds, them
Middleharberers ought to be shot. There I was,'
and as good a little lotter gum as ever I see. Had
the seeve rigged up, and had strained out all the
hadders—42 of ’em—thick’s a man’s leg, and was
ready to bag up. I goes down to where I left the
craft ’ —here George underwent an appalling series
of spasms—‘and she was clear gone—sich a nice
a craft, too ! Of all the thieving ! Did yer ever try
• to carry a sieve and a shovel and a billy-pot oyer
mountainyous country ? ’ and George’s erratic eye
waved wiidly.
“I confessed that 1 had not, but recalled the
circumstance of a careful, asthmatic man I saw at
a camp one moonlight night, clambering up a
rocky slope with a wire-stretcher. His ease could
not, however, be said to coincide with George’s,
because, so far as the transient beam of the moon
permitted me to observe, it appeared to push him
downhill every time, except when he adroitly
rolled himself on top of it and toboganned down.
“‘Ah, yes,’ continued George, ‘it was jist
dreadful. Yer see, I was clean lost, but I reckoned
that, so long as I headed about nor’-west and kep’
a big scrubby-looking hill well on my right shoul-
der, I’d be pretty sure to pick up the Spit. But
, my cargo was that shifty, and I gets to thinking
d so much about them Middle-harberers-—the
thieving hounds—that what’s I do but lose my
r i? S \l ,i ier . e was wanderin’ round and round
till about three in the morning, when all of a sudden
1 goes nop over a sotter precipice, and lands right
against a shed at Folly Point. When I got across
1 starts huntin’ and peerin’ under these here
wharves and places for the boat, but she’s clean
gone— and sich a nice craft too ! ’
“Well, this time, when I met George, he was
going across to the Bay with some clothes tied up
in a spotted handkerchief. He dragged me into
a gateway and whispered, ‘Just shipped aboard
the Diver—beautiful little craft, 10 tons—River
trade, you know—-firewood and punkins.’ -Then
he burst into a smile and went aboard, and with
him passed from the sphere of industrial enter-
prise the last of the gum-gatherers. Have some
more stew ? And a drop of drink ?
“You know,” said the Hawker, “I’ve often
often thought there’s a lot of philosophy in drink.
Man is sent into this world to open liis mouth,
and, as it is a one-sided world, only one of his
jaws, the under one, reallv works; the upper one
is passive. At his birth, lie is the prettiest little
squeaker imaginable, a cradled sunbeam to his
mother. His first drink is at ‘baby’s hotel,’or,
as Keats elegantly puts it, at ‘ those dainties made
to still an infant’s cries.’ As the boy grows in
years, his mouth is continually open in wonder at
the domestic emergencies of this inconvenient
planet, where slumbering children smile, and men
so often swear in their sleep. Often in boyhood,
he opens his lips with the wild instinctive yell of
freedom, but he finds to his sorrow that he is but a
kid forced to sneak a ride behind the c*irt of
creation, and that he must conform to conven-
tionalities.
“Grown up, the boy sometimes takes strong
drink in imitation of other people. Later in life
he becomes jaded and yawns, for it is a principle
of nature to insist upon the active jaw; if a man
can find nothing new to wonder at he must yawn.
Then, in time, lie may begin to habitually open
his mouth for alcohol; but Providence help him
otherwise !
“The drink mania,” said the Hawker dogmatic-
ally, “is not a thirst. A man goes to that para-
dise of pint-pots, the hotel, for company, as
women go to church for society. Nor is alcoholism
a liking for the mere flavor of strong beverages ;
it is often a repugnance. See an early-morning
toper ! shuddering over his pick-me-up ; yet he
forces himself to engineer it down for the effect it
will have on the mind. Again, drink is not a
disease ; it is a poor human attempt to get away
from disease, whether an unknown ailment in"
some bodily organ, or a malady of the mind. A
wish for happiness, the .supreme aim of humanity,
is at the root of alcoholism.
“The habitual drunkard, that red-faced fungus
of humanity, is an everlasting puzzle to the social
reformer. It is enough to make a barrel of ‘ jolly
good ale and old ’ laugh through its base bunghole
to think that the world does not know what to do
with him. If he has no self-will, if religion and
woman’s love are powerless, it almost seems as if
he were fated to be weeded out by a process of
Natural Selection. His mind is a psychic piano
repeating one awful chord of self-contempt; drink
silences this and wakes up merry-go-mad melodies.
He wants to forget the past, so he repeatedly
christens himself over again with alcohol. Inebri-
ate asylums simply herd a lot of dipsomaniacs
together, who despise each other for their common
failing, and recruit themselves in health for future
carousals.
“ Drink, like the nectar of Nemesis, runs through
the panoramas of past history. Extraordinary
contrasts present themselves; from that wonder-
ful, unknown, primitive man who first tasted
alcohol, and no doubt felt that, within his barbaric
form, he was enshrining a live god falling down-
stairs, to the modem temperance orator affirming
that drink is a dying fiend, vanquished by the
triumphant tea-leaf; from the ancient orgies of
men and women, dancing half-naked in worship of
Bacchus, to the up-to-date company of Salva-
tionists, gesticulating in honor of temperance ;
from Queen Elizabeth, drinking beer for break-
fast, to the slum-wife of to-day, waiting outside
a midnight gin-palace for her unpurifiable lord to
come to supper ; from the ivy-bush, hung outside
the ancient tavern as a charm against excess, to
the pawned swag behind the counter of the
sophisticating bush-pub. in latter-day Australia.
“Water of life! the world is marvellous with
its ‘wine which cheereth God and man,’ as the
Scriptures say. In those romantic Middle Ages,
when men drank .‘ with a jolly rumble, O ! ’ any-
thing was an excuse for an ale-carousal; there
were church-ales to obtain money to repair the
church, cuckoo-ales when that bird came in spring,
and bride-ales before a wedding. From Alexan-
der the Great to Shakespeare the world is remark-
able for illustrious tipplers ; while in the domain
of Natural History we find the flying-fox getting
drunk on cocoa-nut juice, and the bumble-bee
intoxicating itself with the fermented honey of
the sunflower. (By the by, it is said that the word
Sydney is derived from St. Denis, the patron
saint of France, and that St. Denis is an abbrevia-
tion of Dionysius or Bacchus.)
“In these days, when Art has become the
attractive war-paint of commerce, our cities
appear to be elaborate advertisements for Drink.
You might imagine that man had only one duty—
Thirst; and only one pastime—to choose between
the variety of liquors offered to him. The modern
hotel is a constellation of mirrors where a man can
drink himself drunk, and see how he looks from all
points of view when inebriated. The free lunch
in some of these plaoes is a remarkable pantomime.
A little time before the banquet is spread, you
may see a number of hungry and shabby men
scowling in the bar, like a funeral waiting for a
corpse. Soon there enters an hotel assistant over-
laden with the free collation, and immediately a
sort of panic seizes the customers ; they mob the
man till he feels like a dumb-waiter attacked in the
rear-front by a stampede of desperate swine. They
make a dead-set at the feast before there is
time to place it on the counter; then, a
mob of evil-eyed gourmandisers, they fall to, and
animalism is triumphant.
“ To some people in Australia, the seventh day
of the week is Sneaking Sunday. In back streets
of the city you can see a variety of lackadaisical
loafers, slinking round the side-doors of pubs. ;
they can’t get in to their liquid lady-love. There
is a pathos of vile vulgarity about them, as if they
had committed some unchristened crime years ago
and were trying to hide from their own shadows.
Church-bells are ringing in the distance, but they
are parched profanities waiting for a morning
drink. Presently, when all is safe, the landlord
opens the side-door, and they sneak in like a lot
of excommunicated tragedians. Then comes the
matchless joy of saturation on the sly. Swine of
Circe ! how beautiful is the sub-rosa rum, and the
amber ale imbibed in fascinating stealth, when
the tippler feels as shaky as a spectre in a night-
mare of nerves. No, the drunks of Australia
want no Sunday Opening Bill; it would take
away the precious joy of their Sneaking Sabbath.
Now—have another drop, and we’ll change the
subject.”
When and Why the Boers Armed.
For the benefit of the man in the street, those who
made the Transvaal war have invented the myth of a
vast Dutch conspiracy against the British Empire.
[ln Australia men likeQ. Chief-Justice Griffith have
swallowed and circulated the myth.J They dare
not admit that the British were the aggressors. So
the war is described as “inevitable,” the result of
a plot to overthrow the empire which has been
maturing in President Kruger’s brain ever since
Mr. Gladstone’s so - called “ surrender ” after
Majuba. For evidence of all this we are referred
to the Boer armaments. In words that have
found an echo in the speeches of Lord Salisbury
and Sir Michael Hicks-Beach, the Daily Mail has
assured us that —
“The Boers have for nearly 18 years been accu-
mulating artillery, rifles, melinite, German and
Hollander officers, with which to oust England
from South Africa.”
If this can be proved, then we allow that there is
a solid basis for the theory of a Dutch conspiracy,
we will admit that the Boers have provoked the
war and are morally the aggressors.
The burden of proof lies with the Yellow Press.
So far, if we except Mr. Hugh Price Hughes’s
vague reference to the testimony of unnamed
“ Christian missionaries and laymen,” it has pro-
duced not a single item of positive evidence. We
are left to the testimony of the Blue-books and the
correspondents of the Times. The earliest refer-
ence to the subject that'we can find is in an
article on “Natal and the Transvaal in 1890,”
published by the Times on 7 November last. The
writer states that he visited the barracks, arsenal,
etc., in Pretoria. The “standing army,” he tells
us, was limited to a “single battery” of obsolete
guns, and he adds “ the military inefficiency in
every detail was in 1889 beneath contempt.” Six
years later Major Robert White was sent to Pre-
toria at the cost of the Chartered Company to spy
out the land. He, too, visited the Pretoria
arsenal, and his investigations were assisted by
Colonel Frank Rhodes and Captain Ernest
Rhodes. Nine months later the diary in which he
recorded his impressions was picked up on the
field of Krugersdorp. It contains a quaint inven-
tory of the guns which he found in Pretoria (See
Cape Report on Jameson Raid, p. 169) :
1. Half-a-dozen very old pieces of ordnance,
mortars, - &c.
2. One bronze gun of the date of the Second
Empire.
3. A broken Maxim-Nordenfelt.
4. A small muzzle-loader in bad condition.
Besides these broken and obsolete weapons there
were at most nine other light guns and three
Maxims. The list concludes with the remark—
None of the guns I saw were fit for mnch work.
Clearly then the best evidence which the spies of
the Chartered Company, with all Mr. Rhodes’
millions behind them, could find, went to show
that, so far as artillery was concerned, the Boers
were, on the eve of the Raid, almost absolutely
unprovided.
But it may be argued that Major White was
hoodwinked. He may not have seen the modern
armaments at Pretoria. That is possible, but we
have other evidence to show that when they
actually did begin to arm, the Boers were by no
means reluctant to reveal their resources. From
Captain Younghusband, who visited Pretoria for
the Times early in 1896, they did not conceal the
fact that—
“ Orders for batteries of field guns, quick-firing
guns and Maxims, and for sufficient rifles to arm
every Dutchman in South Africa were being sent
to Europe ; European drill instructors and
artillerymen were being imported, and forts were
being constructed round Pretoria on the most
approved designs. One attempt had been made to
take their country from them ; they were thoroughly
convinced that the attempt would be renewed at
some future date ; so the Boers were determined to
be thoroughly on their guard the second time.”
Yet he entirely corroborates Major White’s esti-
mate of the Boer armaments before the Raid,
when he writes (“South Africa of To-day,” pp.
141-3):
“ The Boers had very nearly been caught napping
at the beginning of the year.”
But there is other evidence still. The Daily
News has appealed to the famous Uitlander mani-
festo and to the Transvaal budgets. The mani-
festo is dated 27th December, 1895. It was
written when the Johannesburg conspiracy was
no longer a secret. That manifesto informs us
that £250,000 “ is to be spent upon the completing
of a fort at Pretoria,” &c., and that orders have
been placed in Germany for heavy guns and
ammunition. Note the future tense. The docu-
ment shows that at the end of 1895, on the admis-
sion of the Uitlanders themselves, the Boers were
were adequately armed and had suddenly begun to
set to work to remedy their deficiencies. The
Transvaal Budget tells the same tale. For 1892
the military expenditure of the Republic was only
some £29,739, in 1893 it was £19,340, in 1894
£28,158. In 1895, the year of the Raid, it rises to
£87,308, and leaps in 1896 to a round half-million.
It has been suggested that payments for arma-
ments lurk under the headings “ Public Works,”
“ Special Payments,” “Sundry Services,” but the
totals for these items tell the same tale. In 1894
they figure out to £528,526, in 1895 they rise to
£1,485,244, while in 1896 they stand at £2,007,372.
The trail of the Raid is over all these statistics.
But we are not left to conjecture. We happen
to know exactly at what stage Mr. Kruger took
alarm, exactly which of the preparations that led
to the Raid persuaded him to reorganise his army
and send to Europe for his guns and his instruc-
tors. In the St. James’s Gazette of 29 August last
there appeared over the signature “Anglo-African-
der ” a remarkable account of a consultation which
the writer, who was then in the service of a foreign
power, had wi th Mr. Kruger and General Joubert
m September, 1895. Mr. Kruger asked him why
the Chartered Company was buying “ hundreds of
horses ” for presentation to the new Volunteer
Rhodesian Horse. Mr. Kruger would see in this
only one meaning, which he summed up in the
saying, “ Rhodes 'is going to jump my country, ”
and Gen. Joubert also ?same to the conclusion that
“ it is time to shut our doors, as robbers are about.”
Here, then, at last is the whole story of the Boer
armaments. They were Mr. Kruger’s answer to
Mr. Rhodes’s Raid. They were undertaken not
for aggression but for defence, they were continued
because the Boers knew right well that the men
who had conspired against their independence in
1895 would renew the attack before the party see-
saw had removed from the Colonial Office their
ally and accomplice—Mr. Joseph Chamberlain.
The Boers, then, armed only after the Jameson
Raid had warned them that their independence
was threatened. That fact in itself all but
demolishes the myth of a Dutch conspiracy to oust
Britain from South Africa. It proves at all events
that up to 1896 such an ambition was not a practical
factor in Transvaal politics. But it may be said
that with the resentment that followed Mr.
Rhodes’s freebooting expedition there came also
the determination to erect South Africa into an
independent Boer State. To a certain extent this
is plausible. There was throughout South Africa
a closing of the ranks against the British “ Im-
perialism ” as represented by Mr. Rhodes and the
De Beers group of alien financiers. But all this
involved absolutely no thought of disloyalty to
the British Crown. Of this one needs no more
convincing proof than an article which appeared
in the Times on 16th May, 1899. It was written
presumably by Miss Flora Shaw, who acted as
Mr. Rhodes’s accredited agent in London at the
time of the Raid. None will dispute her authority
on South African affairs, or deny her party bias
against the Boers. Yet she pens a striking
defence of the loyalty of the Cape Dutch,
quoting, for example, Mr. Hofmeyr’s recent
declaration that “if he could do anything to
make the English flag wave in South Africa
yet many and many a year, lie would
do it.” She has misgivings only regarding some
of the Republican Dutch, whose ideal, she tells
us, is an frikander Confederation, independent of
Downing-st. , yet under the British Hag and within
a Federated Empire.. This, after all, is the ideal
that has long been realised in Canada, and will
shortly be accomplished in Australia. It is not
inconsistent with fervent loyalty.
The conclusion then which remains is that the
Boers armed only for defence after the monstrous
invasion of 1895. They dreaded its repetition,
and with reason. Its real authors went unpun-
ished. Mr. Chamberlain still sat in Downing-
street, and publicly whitewashed Mr. Rhodes’s
honour in the House, while the raider j . became
the heroes of the Empire. And we now know
what reason they had to arm and to antici-
pate a fresh invasion. If Reuter’s corre-
spondent can be trusted, the Boers found at
Dundee among General Symons’ papers conclusive
proofs that in 1896 and 1897, immediately after
the Raid, the British Government set to work to
devise plans for the invasion not only of the Trans-
vaal, but also of the Orange Free State. These
papers include “ portfolios of military sketches of
various routes of invasion into the Transvaal and
Free State, prepared . . . immediately after the
Jameson Raid,” and also “Reconnaissanceßeports
of Lines of Advance through the Free State,”
prepared in 1897. The Boers had, after all, some
excuse for defensive preparations. After this dis-
closure it would be a graceful, if ineffectual, act of
reparation to desist from further talk about Boer
aggression and Dutch designs to drive us into the
sea.
SIR ALFRED MILNER AND THE "DUTCH COS-
SPLLAUY."
The following despatch was sent to Mr. Cham-
berlain by Sir Alfred Milner, in August, 1897, or
about eighteen months after the Raid :
Government House, Cape Town,
August 23, 1897.
Sir,—l have the honour to report that the pro-
ceedings in connexion with her Majesty’s Jubilee
have passed off in the most successful manner,
both at Cape Town and, as far as lam able to
judge, throughout South Africa. ... I have no
doubt the same loyalty has been displayed in other
parts of the Empire; but it appears to me to be
of peculiar interest under the special circumstances
of this Colony, and in view of recent events, which,
as you are aware, have caused a feeling of con-
siderable bitterness among different sections of the
community. All that I can say is that, as far as
I am able to judge, these racial differences have
not affected the loyalty of any portion of the
population to her Majesty the Queen. People of
all races—the English, the Dutch, the Asiatics, as
well as the African natives—have vied with one
another in demonstrations of affection for her per-
son and devotion to the Throne. ... It is impos-
sible to doubt that the feeling of loyalty among all
sections of the population is much stronger than
has sometimes been believed. —I have, &c.,
A. MILNER
Governor and High Commissioner.
FACTS THAT SPEAK FOR DUTCH LOYALTY.
(1) In 1895, before the Raid, not only the Cape
Dutch, but the Orange Free State, believing the
Transvaal in the wrong over the Drifts Question,
were prepared to support us, if necessary, with
money and arms.
(2) In 1898 the present Dutch Ministry voted mi
annual contribution of £30,000 to the Imperial
Navy.
(3) It also made over to the Imperial authorities
the splendid naval station of Simon’s Bay.
Of this Mr. Goschen said so lately as 18th May,
1899: “The motion to grant £30,000 a-year was
passed unanimously. The Afrikanders were in
power. The power had passed from'Sir Gonlon
Sprigg ; the Schreiner, the Bond party were a£ the
helm. But it made no difference, and let the
country understand it,”—and he called upon other
colonies to imitate “the patriotic example.”—
London Morning Leader.


aECOND-HAND
o AND
TWTEW FURNITURE
(Beat Quality),
buy from us and
SAVE 60 PER GBNJ.
' £1 Saved la equivalent
to £6 Earned 1
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOME of best
quality at fully 60 per cent, less than prioes charged else-
where. Oall and inspeot.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
278 George-st. (3 doors past Hunter-st.), SYDNEY.
Telephone 1023.
Dfl. J. COLUS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPYHE.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHOEA, &c.j bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—■
Pr.J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say CHLOHOmNE. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
n
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
KELTS and
AEBLIA NCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Belts will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electrio
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
v i.i penoaii"ni.iv cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly rei urn i lie full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Elect ric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address:
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
$
/ Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
Proprietor .’—STEPHEN GREEK,
210 Lambeth Ed., London, S,E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my invaluable little pamphlet.
SKIN
DISEASES.
A NEW
DISCOVERY.
“LIGMOLLIENE”
The Great Australian Cure.
LICMOLLIENE never fails to CURE ECZEMA (“Psoriasis
Acne”). BARGOO RASH, Superficial or Chronic Diseases
of the Skin, allays instantaneously all Irritation and Sore-
ness. Testified to by well known physicians. From all
Chemists, in metal boxes, 5/- and 7/6 each. W. H.
MALYON, Manufacturing’ Chemist, BALLARAT, VIC.
mn
Never fails.
m
■TiTi
B
WASHINCTON.H.SOUUC?
ISO PITT STREET
fif SYDNEY,
'f'
o
W*
tP
OLD
RNS
L»-J
sunb
CH
C?
&5.C
2/V£
s
H
V
>l P,?| £ToftS
Dear Sir. —Please inform \ our readers that I have been
cured of Weakness, etc., by a simple and inexpensive
remedv, and will be pleased to send the means of cure
t o all sufferers. I do this entirely out of gratitude and
make no charge whatever. Send (stamped) addressed
envelope to Mr. W. KELLOGG, Melbourne Chambers,
£ltt-street, Sydney.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge)
for Selling Wool J
21 per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
/cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents.
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company, Ltd.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
IN New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enable this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalised the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The Following will be our Charges to the Groiver :
... f Per Cent.
(including Receiving into Store, Fire
Insurance, Weighing, Lotting, Re-
packing sample bales, Advertising,
Cataloguing, etc.) —On Wools reali-
sing over 6d. per lb. the charge will be 3s. 9d. per Bale
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. 2s. 6d. per Bale
On Wools realising 4d. per lb. and under Is. 6d. per Bale
ON PRODUCE other than Wool—viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, <fcc., SPECIAL
RATES will be quoted on Application. JF. F. Laivry , Manager.
COMMISSION .
WAREHOUSING
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices:
12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Stores Central Wharf.
SOLE CHARGE—3 per cent, to the Growers ; no charge whatever to the Buyers.
Sales Weekly. Returns Posted within Seven Days of Sale.
All Clients’ Moneys paid into SPECIAL TRUST FUND at the Union Bank.
Kangaroo, Wallaby,^*.
possum Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCONBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
SYDNB Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
LAWRENCE S PATENT TOBACCO GUTTER.
Price £6.
Lawrence’s No. 2: Improved Automatic and Self-Feeding. Price £3 15s.
Note. —These machines are giving universal satisfaction, and are specially recommended to tobacconists
in the country, so as to enable them to supply their customers with Fresh-Cut and Moist Tobacco.
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market, Sydney.
nm
n
m
FOR
99
COMBINES
WHISKY
PERFECTION OF QUALITY
with Absolute purity
i r N
at**
0
s
0
0?
Rochester Lodge
Collins Place,
Collins Street E.,
m~ Superior Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healtjiy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk of Town Hall.
Close trains, trains and theatres.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. M'CLELLAND
(ace BOLGER).
w
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
t,o any part of Austra-
lasia or'New Zealand.
Price, I Os. fid.
n
“I’ll Tin / It.” Sole Agents : The Result.
Craig & Aitken, CSO-33J Gssrge-st., Sydney
WHAT IS CATARRH?
mn
M EDICATOR.
("NATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots aw'ay the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma. Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Nofi)s Catarrb CCirc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
it COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM.”
pOMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
THE
DEAF
mm
ffLQ
DEAF
*w
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address-A. M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
(The B. and N. Treatment).
Numerous testimonials have been received certifying to
the efficacy of this medicine in restoring Nerve, Brain
and Constitutional vitality. For all forms of Debility,
Loss of Energy, Anaemia, Failing memory, and Premature
Decay, it is especially indicated. There are on the market
so many “quack ” remedies for the ailments above men-
tioned, that it becomes important to emphasise a really
reliable and honest medicine. NEUROZONE is a
scientifically compounded remedy, prepared with the
greatest care by an experienced and most reputable phar-
macist. It is recommended with unqualified confidence.
Price, 10s. 6d. a Box.
The Medical Agency
271 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Hypnotism
Reader, why not be able to use the
roost mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can lcam
to Hy pnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all of the many marvelous feats
| that are possible to the Hypnonist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
I conquer pain, win reluctant affection,
I gratify your ambitions, and produce
f amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magni-
ficent work Absolutely
FREE to all who apply.
Remember this costs you noth-
in . A postal card will bring it.
Order to-day and learn to Hyp-j
lio-ize. It is a chance of a'
life-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
m
n
Doctors fako |t.
The Value of BRAGG’S VEGETABLE
CHARCOAL as a Remedy for Affections of the
Stomach, Rowels, and other Digestive Organs is en-
dorsed when eminent l'nysieians, Surgeons, &c., use
it themselves, and give it to their children. Invalu-
able for INDIGESTION, DIARRHCEA, INFLUENZA,
FEVERS, &c. Indispensable as a Preventative ; keep
it in the house, it will save many an illness.
BRAGGS CHARCOAL
POWDER, BISCUITS,
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
and LOZENGES.
DRUNKENNESS
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be Riven secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address —R. CORNWALL, Manager Maling Remedy Co.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering EUCRASY.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
02 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY ;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TORONTO.
CANADA.
'
35 BROADWAY. SYDNEY
163-167 william street. Melbourne
CRAWFORD STREET. DUNEDIN.
ELIZABETH STREET, BRISEANE
HIGH-GRADE FARM IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINERY.


TATTERSALL’S.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
May 9
Adelaide 0.
50,000 Subscribers at &
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
Name
.shares in the above.
43
Address
«
i
Birthday C. May 24
£O,OOO Subscribers at &
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo .shares in above.
Nan**
Address . , ,
Birthday C. (special).
DEAWN MORNING OF THE RACE.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
June 1
Ellesmere S.
25,000 Sutoaoribera at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me_
.shares in the above.
Name
£
Address
Newcastle C. June 7.
25,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name ; .
Address
* « r
Canterbury Midwinter H.
June 23.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL. y
Please allot me in above.
Name _
Address
£, * z
Grand National H. Jul j 7
100,000 Subscribers at S.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
shares in the above.
Name.
£
Address
t
s
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tatters all,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


modern
MILLING MACHINERY.
\
\
v.
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 01arence-st., Sydney.
iliS
m
* *>m
Alb 1
’>*-
6ewar&!« ■■*
QFlMitflrioNS
mn
m
FEDERAL
PALACE
HOTEL
MELBOURNE.
Rooms and Accommodation—all prices—ss. to 12s.
per day. 30s. to £3 10s. per Week, or Rooms and
Meals can be paid for separately.
TWO DINING ROOMS AND OAFE
H. PERCEVAL SMITH, Manager.
USE
Spoopgr’S
■gOOHCftfc.
PBOYALNAV.Y.DHESSIM!
FOR
BROWN LEATHER
BOOTS & SHOES
OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS
I lONS FOR USE
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING-,
UNIVERSAL CREAM
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing Boots
and Shoes (in bottles), 6d. and Is.
Black Oil
The Best Dressing for HARNESS
LEATHER (in bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled Embrocation*
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders, Harness Dressings, etc.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS, BOOT
SHOPS, SADDLERS, etc.
ACiStraliai} tytittial Provident Society.
MONET TO LEND
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Onr New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any fine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-street. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
n
Sulkies, £4 IBs., £6 165.,
£8 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Buckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
BSD’ Send for Price List.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The Largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
m
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN.
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
# PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD is of the hig best value for the weak and sickl y babe >
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELLIN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
FOOD AND MELLIN’S EMULSION MAY BE OBTAINED OF ALL DEALERS.
MELLIN’S
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from COLLIN & CO., 172 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Mrs. E. j
LYNN ;
LINTON, ;
The Famous Authoress \
writes —
Brougham House, I
Maevern, |
January 16th, 1896. |
“ I have used your'KOKO’now since
June last, and I have not only stopped
the falling out, which had been ex- |
cessive after a severe illness, but I
have an entirely new growth of hair,
while the old hair is longer. As lam
not a young woman, but an old one,
I think this is a convincing test of
your preparation.”
‘KOKO’
j Eradicates Scurf and Dandriff, Prevents
1 Hair Railing. Promotes Growth, and is the
' Best Dressing for the Hair. Perfectly
I Harmless.~Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
\ and its unique testimonials prove it to be
) undoubtedly the Best Preparation for the
I Hair, i/-. 2/6 and 4/6 sizes, of all Chemists,
J Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO,, LTD,,
f 16, Be vis Marks, London, England.
THOMSON’S
NEW Model, “GLOVE-FITTING”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long ivaist.
2&
m
v
m
m
Thom
ons
TIIK MOST COMFORTABLE & DURA BLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST.
N.B. Old Model Corsets always in stock.
TO BE HAD OP ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Co-, LcU London
The Australian Mining and Property Bureau,
CABLE ADDRESS:
Donned,” London.
222 CANNON ST. HOUSE.
liondon., E.C.
Established as a connecting link between Australian Properties and the Financial Market of London bjr
frank; jaetvis
fwho has had 20 years’ experience in the Colonies), and is in touch with the best financial circles in the old country,
ind who has already succeeded in placing several large properties, undertakes business upon strictly Agency terms.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES :
N S WaIes— HARRIE WOOD, Esq. (late Under-Secretary of Mines), Bligh-street, SYDNEY.
Queensland— Messrs. CORRIE & CO., Queen ;reet, BRISBANE.
Victoria— JOSEPH WOOLF, Esq., 43 Market-street, MELBOURNE.
W Australia— C. E. STONEMAN, Esq., William and Murray Streets, PERTH.
3XT.S-
-"W". Carriage & Saddlery Miaiif
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern,
(close to Redfern
Company,
SYDNEY
Railway Station).
When in town, pay us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Prioe List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5 ; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard. Buggies fr.om £9
10s. Ladies’ Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirements.
OUB SPECIAL No. 2
£8 18/6
nm
Delirered at any Wharf er-
X.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10/-
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An Omen?
Mr. Justice Simpson appeared in N.S.W. Divorce Court
one day recently without his wig and gown. His Honor
explained that nothing but abnormal circumstances, over
which—although a Judge-he had no control, would have
caused him to appear on the Bench while not wearing his
insignia of office. Of course nobody suspected, that he
had pawned his wig and robe, but at the same time, and
although the business of the Court went on as usual,
nobody appeared quite satisfied. The shock, especially
coming from so dignified a quarter, was too great and too
sudden. The audience which regularly attends this
court seemed to be divided in opinion. Some of them
looked uneasy ; the rest treated the proceedings with
scarce-concealed contempt.
Take it now from me,
In this humble ode,
Foolish policy
Justice Simpson showed—
Letting the profane
Crowd of common men
See he was a plain,
Common citizen.
Barristers with glum
Humour tried to make
Little of his dumb
Desperate mistake.
Well they might! They feared
That, from root to stem,
This exposure weird
Would be ill for them.
When the Judge is seen
Stripped of majesty—
Who will pay the keen
Barrister nis fee ?
Litigants will probe
His accounts so big—
Say: “So much the robe 1
So much for the wig !
How much now the man
Underneath these rags ?”
I can see a clan
Shouldering their swags.
* * *
Some of the queer folk
Who frequent the court,
Thought it was a joke
Made in Easter sport.
Others, more concerned,
Spoke about his brain —
Said the Judge had turned
Suddenly insane.
Their belief was big
That his law, for sure,
Lurked within his wig,
Or his robe, secure.
And, though business went
In its usual way,
They were not content —
Very sad were they.
“ What will happen next ?
Tell me if you can
Looking sore-perplexed,
Said an ancient man.
“I can tell you, sir—
Said a Person wan—
“ What will quick occur,
If these games go on.
“ When the Law men view,
As to-day did we,
Law and Order, too
Soon will ended be.
“ When the Wig and Gown
People thus contemn—
Sceptre, Globe, and Crown
Fast will follow them. ”
Spake a Voice : “ There will
Be no need for rage :
We shall see them still
Used—upon the Stage.”
Y.J.D.
“In the Morning."
We’re a sixty-five ton hooker, and we’re jammed j
up in the Bight
’Twixt Egmont and Manukau, with Gannet Rock
in sight;
From Nel.'O'i to Kaipara, for kauri—but we’re
light;
And we’ll fall away to loo’ard ’fore the morning.
Then it’s luff her up to wind’ard with every slant
you get,
And watch the weather roller when it’s needed to
be met —
If she starts a stick, or parts a sheet, or sags to
loo’ard —bet
The fishes will have cleaned our bones ere
morning!
At two bells in the morning watch, it hauled to
west-nor’-west
And broke her off four points or more, when
lookin’ up her best;
Now ’tis close-reefed jib and mains’l, and the devil
take the rest!
And it’s less than that she’ll want before the
morning.
So ’tis shove her up to wind’ard, or she’s off to
Kingdom-come ;
The old man’s full of she-oak —tight as any blessed
drum;
The “doctor’s” boilin’ stinkin’ beef, and drinkin’
hell-fire rum ;
So Sam and I must keep the deck till morning.
Well, we cannot fetch the Gannet—keep her just a
point away,
If you “choke” her now—in ballast—with this
sea she will not stay ;
Ready ’bout ! —down helm ! —let draw !—now,
thank the Lord she gathers way!—
And it’s south’ard, on the starboard tack till
morning.
Then it’s jam her up to wind’ard, and it’s luff her
in the squalls,
And for two-pound-ten a month we have to go
where duty calls.
We can’t be much worse off, by gum ! whatever
luck befalls,
In Kingdom-blanky-Glory in the morning.
M.L.
MARSHALL NALDER.


THE
PLUM
n
Price—SINGLB RAZOR, 10s. 6d.; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Poßt free to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CKAIO & AITKB3NT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
The Australian Ifjidouis’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
rpHIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
J- which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
11. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWICK, M.D., M.L.C., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated minds ... exceed £1,350,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
TattcrSall’S Hotel jssmt
Pitt Street, Sydney.
W, J. Adams, Manager.
Excellent Suites of Rooms,
Private Dining and Reception
Rooms.
Ladies with families will find in this
handsome, newly-built, newly-furnished
hotel all the comforts of the best-
appointed homes, and an attention that
will please the most exacting.
Tariff: 10s. per day; £3 per week.
WOOLGROWERS ! YOU
have created our reputa-
tion and name ; and for
"30 YEARS we have never failed to honor your confidence. We ask you to honor us
by supporting us, WHO) OF YOUR MAKING, are
The largest All-Round Wool Brokers in Hew South Wales.
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L T -
Financiers; Wool, Hides, Tallow, Skins, and General Produce Brokers.
6
B
SB
BB
V/» IWV
IbearsHe
upon
»_N
His Shield 4 ?
m
STieK T©
nm
CIGARETTES
The Demand for DIXSON’S AMERICAN TOBACCOS
so increases that the sales for Sydney Factory
During 1899 were 77 TONS GREATER than during 1898.
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading? Brand in M.S. Wales.
OBTAINABLE THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE OF THE OTHER COLONIES.
CONQUEROR
THE WORKMAN’S TOBACCO-CHEW AND SMOKING.
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS -
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Out, very mild.
The workmans favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same, never changes.
Eetaded 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by’machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney , for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—IS’o. 1054.
SATURDAY, APRIL 28, 1000.
Phiob 6d.
A BALLAD OF HEROES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The parsons bend and the parsons pray 5
For the boys who’re off to a distant fray;
The hold is packed with the choicest cheer,
The hero’s chest is aburst with beer. f
The girls have laughed and the girls "have cried,
The crowd it crushed till it nearly died,
For the shufflers stay while the heroes roam —
And the Lord will hustle for the folks at home i
■'ey"* cP
Jo
«s> <y
-?.y y> v
'C' <V . i
V? />
.A J? <r
-ftf .«» -Q
£y o\a
•• >, 3? s>
0
oy
The drought is fierce and the drought is fell,
The plains are black as the hobs of hell,
The cattle are a-dyin’ and the sheep are dead;
The folks are famished but the crows are fed;
There’s no fine talk for a fight like this,
No beer at call with a girl to kiss :
It’s a slouch that’ll stand it when the heroes roam ;
O, the Lord will hustle for the folks at home 1
So fling*your flags on the mornin’ breeze—
(This “ Duty first! ” is a poor old wheeze).
There’s drums and fifes and a fine old flare—
(A plague and curse on the old black care !)
A man must go when the bugles cry,
Though the young ones droop and the old ones die ;
It’s a slouch that lingers when the heroes roam ;
O, the Lord will hustle for the folks at home 1
- f
Choeus :
But Dad is a-stickin’ to the plough,
And Sis is a-raanagin’ the cow,
Bor the bbys are far on the blue sea’s foam,
And the Lord will hustle for the folks at home
PHILANDER FLAM.
A BALLAD OF HEROES.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.’’
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... ® 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand . that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Blade and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., lAmited, 11 and 13 Wool Exchange,
Ijondon, E.C. ; Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; Street
& Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco. —The Argonaut office, 2J)6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 23 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria , S. Australia,
Westralia, and JWaoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland-
Owing to the imposition of\\d. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum,, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage— ljd. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
SATURDAY, APRIL 28, 1900.
Independent Australia and Attorney-
General Wise.
When Australia’s part in the Transvaal
war comes to be judicially considered, it
will seem to the historian one of the
maddest freaks of which an apparently
sane people could be guilty. That a
cluster of professedly-democratic Aus-
tralian communities should think it neces-
sary to aid the great British Empire in
destroying the liberties of two little
Dutch Republics in Africa—should abet
the lion in devouring a comparative mouse,
and waste men and money recklessly to
ruin the very Freedom which they are
supposed to be proud of possessing—
this is a marvel which will puzzle
logical people. And the hollowness
of the whole thing is so apparent.
Doubtless the adult Britons in Aus-
tralia are still about as numerous as
the adult Australian-born—and vastly
more energetic : doubtless the mob, hav-
ing once caught the fever, became heated
to an insane pitch ; doubtless Australian
Parliament after Parliament, with few
open dissentients, has acquiesced in the
sending of contingents. But the sham
has all the time been obvious behind the
scenes. The political leaders—tainted
with English influence, or hoping for
profit and “ honors ” from English patron-
age—have themselves been astonished at
the length to which things are carried.
Of the political followers, it is well-known
that a large number are half-hearted,
faint-hearted, and fear to oppose what
they dislike as much as they can dislike
anything. Young Australia has shown
once more its devotion to “ Sport.” The
crowds have cheered, and the children
have collected pennies, as crowds and
children will, because at the moment it is
the popular thing to do. But, in spite
of all the subscriptions and demonstra-
tions, the unreality of the whole affair,
for a great number of those who let
themselves be passively borne before the
wave, has always been evident—behind
the scenes. The political augurs have
hardly been able to meet without laugh-
ing, in private. In public, they have
waved flags and yelled with the rest, and
mouthed astounding rhetoric about that
Empire which is God. In private, one
presumes, they have maintained their old
convictions, or no-convictions, and waited
till the crowds roll by.
* * * *
Take the case of B. R. Wise, Q.G., an
Australian and Attorney-General in the
N.S. Wales Cabinet. He goes with the
crowd. He shouts with the mob for the
Flag, and the Empire, and the obvious duty
of Australia to immolate herself on the
altar of somebody else’s country. But,
twelve years ago, when the Soudan
frenzy had passed, as the Transvaal
frenzy will pass, and a man could express
an honest opinion without losing his
billet or being knocked on the head in
the interests of Freedom (in Africa)
B. R. Wise, now N.S.W. Premier Lyne’s
Attorney-General, sqng a very different
song. In Macmillan’s Magazine for
June, 1888, he pointed out the folly of
the Imperial Federationists of that epoch
in language which is strange reading now.
He was not, indeed, opposed to Imperial
Federation—of a sort. But the ideal
which he advocated contained no aspect of
Australian dependency, no conception of
a loyal Australia doing Britain’s bidding
and sending troops to aid Britain in
foreign wars, however unjust. His view
of Imperial Federation was Parkes’s
view of a Federation of free and indepen-
dent communities, united in one grand
whole. Ho dependency, no subserviency,
no bartering of Australian ideals at the
beck of self-seeking politicians, no wasting
of Australia’s resources in foreign wars
without profit to Australia. The
Soudan expedition was characterised by
Attorney-General Wise in 1888 as a
“ lamentable eccentricity .” How comes
it that in 1900 Attorney - General
Wise is member of a Cabinet which
urges N.S. Wales towards an “ eccentri-
city ” even more lamentable I —towards
what is much more than an “ eccentri-
city ” —towards a crime against free men
with whom Australia has no quarrel 1
Is Attorney-General Wise, of the Lyne
Cabinet, so far removed from Attorney-
General Wise, of the Parkes Cabinet?
Or is he content to be a political chame-
leon, and take this year’s color from his
leader Parkes, and next year’s color
from his leader Lyne ?
• • * «
Attorney-General Wise believed in
alliance with England in 1888, as
he does now. But in 1888 he was
eloquent in support of a party which
saw clearly that “ the full development
of civic life can never be attained in a state
of dependency ; that subjection to a distant
country , however seldom that subjection
may be manifested , exercises a depressing
influence upon the national character , by
creating a false standard of public virtue
and private taste.” In 1900, B. R. Wise
is Attorney-General in a Cabinet which
wastes Australian resources in British
wars at Jingo bidding, without direct
reference to the people ; which looks to
Britain for honors and rewards, and—as
in the matter of Transvaal annexation—
obeys servilely every nod of the ruling
Jingo party in Britain. He will pardon
the dullness of common men who fail to
see in the contrast that consistency of
honest conduct which is prized even by
those who know that consistency of
opinion is an ignoramus’ dream. And if
he hold fast to the words which he wrote
in 1888—
Union vnth England we gladly believe will
come ; but it must be the union of an equal
with an equal , and not the union of a superior
with a subordinate ; so that it is no paradox
to say that the first step towards union must
be —(these are The Bulletin’s capitals)—
SEPARATION—
if the Lyne Cabinet of which he is a
member hold fast to it, —then now is the
time for Attorney-General Wise and his
Cabinet to shout those words from the
platforms and the housetops for the last-
ing benefit of Australia.
Oom John’s Promise.
Premier John Forrest has done At last
what he should have done at first—or done
part of it, at all events. He has publicly
announced that if the Federal Constitution
is altered in one clause, so as to permit
Westralia to retain its separate tariff intact
for five years after joining the Common-
wealth, instead of, as is now proposed,
retaining a separate tariff that diminishes by
instalments spread over five years, he will
be a satisfied man. If his one amendment
is agreed to, he promises to call Parliament
together, re-introduce the Federal Bill as a
Government measure, and do his best to get
it passed and to make Westralia a member
of the union. It is evidently no use further
inquiring now why Big- John didn’t discover
that he wanted this concession at any time
during the three years or more when the
Constitution was being constructed. The
question has been asked very often,
and has evoked no response. Possibly
Forrest doesn’t know himself. And
it is apparently no further use in-
quiring why it was so extremely difficult
to extract from Forrest the assurance that
this one concession was what he wanted,
and was all he wanted, and that, when it was
forthcoming, he would really put his shoulder
to the wheel at last. For many weeks
anonymous letters in the press and ap-
parently-inspired newspaper articles declared
that, this one alteration made, Premier John
would do his best to bring Westralia into
line with its neighbors, but, while Premier
John didn’t publicly say so himself, there
was obviously nothing to be done. The five
eastern provinces could hardly be expected
to start the vast, laborious process of amend-
ing their great work to satisfy Forrest, if
Forrest wouldn’t commit himself publicly to
any assurance that, when the amendment
was done, he would be a whit more satisfied
than before. Now that he has committed
himself, the situation becomes wholly dif-
ferent.
• • * *
The alteration which Premier Forrest
desires'is really a very small affair. In the
present Draft Constitution there is a clause
(No. 95) which reads :
Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the
Parliament of the State of Western Australia may, during
the first five years after the imposition of uniform duties
of customs, impose duties of customs on goods passing into
that State and not originally imported from beyond the
limits of the Commonwealth ; and such duties shall be
collected by the Commonwealth.
But any duty so imposed on any goods shall not exceed
during the first of such years the duty chargeable on the
goods under the law of Western Australia in force at the
imposition of uniform duties, and shall not exceed during
the second, third, fourth and fifth of such years respec-
tively, four-fifths, three-fifths, two-fifths, and one-fifth of
such latter duty, and all duties imposed under this sec-
tion shall cease at the expiration of the fifth year after the
imposition of uniform duties.
If at any time during the five years the duty on any
goods under this section is higher than the duty imposed
by the Commonwealth on the importation of the like
goods, then such higher duty shall be collected on the
goods when imported into Western Australia from beyond
the limits of the Commonwealth.
And in place thereof Premier Forrest de-
sires to insert a new clause to this effect :
During a period of five years next following the imposi-
tion by the Parliament of the Commonwealth of uniform
duties of customs, the State of Western Australia may,
notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, continue
to receive the same duties of customs as are in force there
at the passing of this Act, such duties to be collected by
the Commonwealth. The Parliament of Western Aus-
tralia may during that period repeal or alter, but may not
increase any such duties, and at,the end of the said period
such duties shall absolutely cease. During the said
period no duties imposed by the Commonwealth shall be
collected in Western Australia. During the said period
all goods imported into the other States of the Common-
wealth from Western Australia shall be subject to such
duties of customs as the Commonwealth may impose.
* » * *
One notable difference is : the old clause
provides that the duties shall fade away
gradually during five years, and the new
one provides that they shall fade all at once
at the end of five years. Another is that
the new clause provides that Westralia’s
separate duties may “continue” for five
years, whereas the old one said that
they might be “imposed.” The latter
is held to mean that Westralia’s separate
duties would cease automatically as soon
as the Federal tariff came into force,
but that they might be re-enacted, if the
Groper party could fight the necessary Bill
through the Assembly. The statement that
they may “ continue ” means that they will
remain automatically unless the Outlanders
can force a Bill through the Council for their
repeal. This is a difference—yet not so very
much of a difference. If the duties are
oppressive, as the Outlanders allege, by
joining the Commonwealth on Forrest’s
terms they are assured of relief in five years
from the date of the Commonwealth’s tariff,
and that, after all, is not very long. And
they will have the same chance to fight
Boer John in the interval for a reduction of
duties in their own State Parliament as they
have now, and as they would have if West-
ralia stood out. But if Westralia comes in
on Forrest’s conditions, they will always
have a certainty of relief a few years ahead
if they fail by their own efforts. If West-
ralia stands out they will have no such hope
in front of them. Even from the Outlanders’
point of view, the compromise doesn’t look
very bad.
* • * *
But Premier Forrest again begins at the
wrong end. He announces that he will
summon the two Groper Houses and “ do
his utmost to pass the Bill through Parlia-
ment as a Ministerial measure and to obtain
its acceptance by the people of Westralia ”
if his amendment is agreed to. He got one
tariff concession before, and declared him-
self fully satisfied with it, and pledged him-
self to do his utmost to pass the present
Bill as a Ministerial measure, and to secure
its acceptance by the people—and he did
norle elf these things. The new promise is
probably worth a good deal more than the
old one, but even if he goes straight this
time—and it seems reasonably probable that
he will—what is John Forrest’s utmost ?
It may mean that, if the Bill is rejected
by either the Assembly or the Council,
he will dissolve the only dissolvable
House of the two, and appeal to the country
with all his might for such a mandate as will
overawe all opposition, and that, if he fails a
second time, the Forrest Ministry will
resign as the last possible protest against an
obstructive Legislature. Or it may mean, as
it so often has meant in Westralia, that he
will carry the Bill if he can conveniently do
so, and just go on as usual if he can’t.
• * • *
In any case The Bulletin holds that the
Commonwealth Constitution should not be
altered in any way until after the Federation
of the five provinces is accomplished, if it
can possibly be avoided. If the British
Government absolutely insists on altering
the appeal clauses that is a different matter.
Then the trouble becomes unavoidable, and
in that case the Federal delegates should be
instructed to obtain an alteration of the
Westralian tariff clause also, on the ground
that there is no more labor and loss
of time and risk of dissension in
making the two alterations than in
making one. But if the appeal clause is
not altered, then Westralia’s concession
should wait until the first Federal Parlia-
ment meets. To patch the Constitution
afresh before Federation is accomplished
means going over the long and weary busi-
ness of applying to the ten Houses of five
Parliaments for their ten separate consents,
and, if they don’t care to take the responsi-
bility of altering the peopled Bill without
the people’s consent, then it also means ap-
plying to the five communities for their five
separate consents. If anything serious and
unforeseen happens in any of these fifteen
separate stages, one member of the Federa-
tion may drop out after all, and the only
guarantee that another member will drop
in by way of compensation is John Foil
rest’s assurance that he will do his utmost
—exact nature of John’s utmost unspecified.
After the Federation is consummated the
alteration which, it is sincerely to
be hoped, will heal the breach with
Westralia, can be effected with the
sanction of one Parliament and with one
referendum, at which the assent of three
provinces can easily override the objections
of two. And, in this case, even the rejec-
tion of the amendment at a Referendum
won’t block or delay Federation, or bring
about a deadlock. Moreover, it is quite
possible one process will be as rapid as the
other. If the amendment which Fokrest
asks is submitted now, and two provinces
reject it, and three accept it, then there
must either be a Federation of two provinces,
or one of three provinces, or the two dis-
sentients must have still another Referen-
dum to see if they can’t think better of it,
or the three that assented must withdraw
-their assent again, and all will be chaos.
A compulsory amending of the Constitution
now would be ill-luck. A purely voluntary
one would be sheer imbecility.
* * * *
In any case Forrest should move at once.
The Cabinets of the eastern provinces should
give Westralia their joint and several assur-
ance that every man of them will do his best
to obtain the amendment asked for. That
should at least mean that so many prospec-
tive votes and so much prospective influence
in the Federal Legislature were pledged to
vote for the new tariff clause as to make its
acceptance reasonably sure if the Federal
Parliament had to decide the matter. It
should also mean that its acceptance was
made reasonably sure in the State Parlia-
ments if they had to decide the matter.
They should also pledge themselves that, if
the Federal Constitution has to be amended
before the Commonwealth starts, through
the British Government’s insistence on the
alteration in the appeal clauses, they will
request that Government, on their own res-
ponsibility, to alter the Westralian tariff
clause also, and will lend all their weight
to securing the acceptance of the new clause
by their Parliaments and their respective
peoples. They should pledge themselves to
do this, relying merely on Premier Forrest’s
promise to do his utmost, with a hope that
his utmost will be a great deal better than
his last utmost. And if the appeal difficulty
is smoothed over after all, they should
undertake not only to do all in their power to
persuade the Federal Parliament to grant
the concession asked for by Westralia, and
to secure its acceptance by the people, but
that they will start doing this as soon as
Westralia has enacted that it will come in
when tbe concession is granted.
And the instant these assurances arrive
Premier Forrest should call his Parliament
together and introduce a measure to the
effect that Westralia will automatically, and
without any further action on its part,
become a part of the Commonwealth as
soon as an amendment is made in the
Constitution giving Westralia five clear
years of tariff independence. Also he
should send the Bill to his own people
for acceptance on these terms. In this
case some one must go first. Either the
five provinces must make the alteration
trusting that the one province will accept it,
or the one province must make it trusting
that the five will accept it. Either the live
eastern premiers must trust Forrest to do
his utmost or he must trust them to do their


utmost. And considering the relative sizes
of things, and the relative cost of things,
and the fact that of the five eastern
Governments three have gone straight all
the time, and the other two have only
wobbled in moderation, while the western
Government has wobbled in a truly dreadful
fashion, it seems reasonable to expect
Forrest to trust to the pledges of the fed-
erating provinces. Only these pledges
should be given promptly and fully. And
after that Oom John should show his sincer-
ity by getting to work without delay. The
promise to do something after some one else
has done something that will probably take
12 months is too slow a process.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Unsewered Melbourne.
Some of the explanations offered by the Mel-
bourne press as to the why and wherefore of the
smellful city’s smellfulness are quaint and curious
reading. It has been discovered that in Melbourne,
as in Sydney, many city properties are not con-
nected with the sewers even now. Among them
are large hotels, warehouses, and other big build-
ings owned by people of importance. Melbourne
city was properly and completely sewered in Jan-
uary, 1898, and city landlords were ordered to con-
nect their properties by April, 1898, at latest.
Things ended there or thereabouts. Many owners
paid no attention whatever to the order, and the
city authorities knew that they paid no attention,
for their malarious night-cart kept calling regularly
at the unsewered buildings, and is doing so to this
day. It called simply because the owners of the
premises broke the law; if they hadn’t broken it the
vehicle whose two unwholesome wheels circulate
by night would have had no work to do. The city
authorities have now sat up suddenly in their
sleep, and the following incredible explanation
appears in a morning paper
We are informed that in the near future owners who
have been served with what the hoard officials call a
“ final notice ” will receive an intimation from the Town
Hall that unless they connect with the sewers within a
certain time, the City Council’s nightsoil carts will cease
to call. The city was declared a sewered area in January,
1898, and by the end of April in that year all the notices
had been served. Two years have therefore elapsed since
owners received the first official reminder of their civic
duties. In sortie cases, we are informed, excuses have
been offered. The facts that the ownership of certain
properties is in dispute, and that the permission of owners
residing in Europe has to be obtained before work could
be commenced, are among the causes for the prolonged
delay. There are, however, numerous instances in which
criminal carelessness and wilful avoidance of responsibility
towards tenants and the public health are the sole expla-
nation of the position of affairs. In these instance pres-
sure will be brought to bear.
Observe that the law says all premises shall be
connected with the sewers whether the owner gives
his permission or not. Therefore the most inane
and futile excuse tendered above is that the owner
was absent, and the agent had to spend two years
writing to him to ask whether he meant to obey
the law or whether he intended telling the law to
go to perdition. Nothing much more foolish
could have been invented. When the law wants
to arrest a poor man for failing to obey it in any
way it doesn’t spend two years writing to him to
ask if he will consent to be run-in ; it simply
says that the law is mighty and must prevail, and
runs him in. When the law issued its ukase that
all buildings must be properly sewered by April,
1898, it should have impressed on the absentee’s
agent the fact that his owner’s property had to be
sewered by then—that it didn’t require the
owner’s permission to obey the law —that if the
agent hadn’t had sense enough to explain to the
owner in the past three years or more that a com-
pnlsory sewe age system was coming it was his
own funeral —and that if he didn’t connect
straightway it would be done at the owner’s ex-
pense. But Australia is full of good sani-
tary laws which its dirty authorities never
dream of enforcing. So certain absentee
landlords have been allowed to go on mur-
dering Australian citizens with typhoid be-
cause it took years to extract an answer from
them (when they were only five weeks distant by
mail-steamer) as to whether they meant to break
the law or not. And other landlords were allowed
to go on murdering their fellow-citizens without
even this flabby excuse. And the authorities
knew this, and helped these landlords to break
the law by sending round their stealthy midnight
vehicle to do sewerage work on their premises.
And now, instead of getting them all fined to the
utmost extent, and hauling them up afresh
every week to be fined again, or put in gaol
if possible, and making the agents for premises of
disputed ownership do the work right off and pay
it out of the rents, no matter whose rents they are
—instead of this it is merely proposed to send out
another notice at some unspecified date, and inti-
mate that after some other unspecified date the
lurking midnight vehicle will abet the statute-
breakers no more.
4.
Adelaide Tram Syndicates.
S.A. Democikats need to keep a watchful eye on
Adelaide’s Municipal Council. Awhile ago it
bartered away its municipal electric lighting rights
in exchange for thirty free lamps in tlie principal
thoroughfare, and now there is imminent danger
of the tramway systems being handed over to a
London syndicate. One Bingham, a London
civil engineer, came along the other day, and, as
a result of negotiations carried on in comparative
secrecy, the corporation of Adelaide has completed
a preliminary agreementtoconferupon ßingham’s
syndicate of the future—it has not been formed
yet—the right to run eleotric trams through the
streets for thirty years. The Council is to
receive £lOOO a year and 10 per cent, of the
net profits for this concession. For some time
there has been a movement among city and sub-
urban councillors for the formation of a Municipal
Trust to purchase all existing lines, and follow the
precedent so profitably adopted in many other big
cities. This movement was actually started by
one or two metropolitan councillors, who are now
enthusiastically championing Bingham’s proposed
monopoly. A Municipal Trust would require a
capital of about £700,000 to work the existing lines
—54 miles in all—and it has been shown again and
again that it would be a profitable investment
from every standpoint, particularly the stand-
point of the people. Anyway, a Municipal
Trust can obtain the money much moro cheaply
than the proposed syndicate, and, instead
of getting 10 per cent, of the net profits, it
would get all of them. To throw away £1 for 2s.
looks like sheer insanity. Despite this obvious
fact, oertain councillors, hitherto considered
Democrats, are asserting that a Municipal Trust is
impossible, though they are quite unable to say
why. S.A. Democrats are up in arms against the
scheme, and it is now suggested that the tramways
should be taken overby 8. A. Govt., which already
owns every inch of railway line in the province,
and could just as easily own and work the
tramways as well. Anyway, the stinkful
example of the labor - oppressing Melbourne
Tram Company should be sufficient precedent
for squelching any further tramway monopolies
in Australia. Bingham’s concern, by the way, has a
rival. Another private concern, the Westinghouse
Electric Co. of England, is negotiating to get the
trams, paying the Council £lOOO a year and no
share of the profits. So the Council has three
possibilities in view—to get all the profits, or a
tenth of them, or none of them, and it proposes to
take the tenth ! There is the further considera-
tion that if the municipal authority took the work
in hand it can be sure of doing the work. When the
private syndicater takes it up he sometimes gets
his company floated in three years and sometimes
not at all. Auckland (M.L.) has been waiting for
two years, or something like that, for a gorgeous
English company to start making its tramways.
And apparently it may be still waiting two years
hence.
: ♦
The Compensation Problem.
When the N.S.W. Government has a moment to
spare (it hasn’t had many of late and even the
most rapid Government can’t do impossibilities) it
should start an enquiry into the case of some of
the tenants in the lately-isolated areas of Sydney.
A few of the poorer ones have undoubtedly been
ruined, and ruined undeservedly, by the isolating
process, and these are entitled to liberal compensa-
tion. Some of these sufferers have pathetic stories
to tell. One old woman of over (50 who ran a
cheap eating-house with sixpenny beds attached,
and made a scanty crust for herself and family, is
a case in point. Her story, shortly, is that her
business stopped and her rent went on, and she is
now a hopeless old woman with no money where-
with to start again. Hardly any of the land-
lords in the infected area deserve compen-
sation. With very few exceptions they were
primarily responsible for the plague by
owning ramshackle premises, unsewered, un-
repaired, unpainted, and devoid of any of the
decencies of life. They did this for purposes of
sordid usury, for the dirty tenement which is let
out in one-room houses is about the most profitable
kind of property on earth. The few clean land-
lords should certainly be compensated (at the
expense of the many dirty ones) for any loss they
suffered, but they are so very few that this paper
hasn’t heard for certain of any of them as yet.
As regards the tenants, many were wilfully un-
clean—more unclean than even their awful sur-
roundings compelled them to be—and they deserve
no sympathy worth mentioning. But some few
were simply as dirty as their poverty, and the
dreadful circumstances supplied by their landlords
and their neighbors, made unavoidable, and they
deserve liberal compensation for their losses where
there were any. These few exceptions didn’t live
in these regions from choice. No moderately-
clean person would. They lived there because
there are no one-room houses to be ob-
tained at Darling Point ; because they had
to be near to their employment ; because
they found an opening to make some kind of a
livelihood there, and such openings are so scarce
in these times that even a chance to run a
solvent threepenny restaurant in Tophet isn’t to be
lightly thrown away. Then their unclean land-
lords, and their unclean neighbors, and the
unclean Corporation which tolerated these land-
lords and neighbors, and the unclean Government
which tolerated the Corporation, and the blankly
indifferent community which looked on, and the
Water and Sewerage Board which helped to look
on, brought the plague among them. When they
were isolated they lost their Work in many cases,
and consequently their wages ; or the poor little
business went to pieces; and as everything
stopped except the unclean landlord’s rent —which
usually went on as usual —they were ruined.
Every person in the infected area whose own
premises were clean deserves to have his or
her loss, whatever it was, made good by
the State at the expense of the dirty
people. And the dirty people—especially the
dirty landlords—should also pay the general clean-
ing bill to the last farthing. Some pitiful cases of
distress have arisen through these same landlords.
The Bulletin, by the way, heai’s of one landlord
who has already struck the idea that his property,
by reason of having been cleaned at the public ex-
pense, should bring in more rent than it did before
the State cleaned it! And a crowd of landlords
from the incredible slums of Wexford-street has
already demanded compensation for having its
premises cleaned at public expense. It is time to
take strong measures with this kind of landlord,
and to take them in a hurry.
+
A Vic. Railway Scandal.
Meagre details of a breach of Victorian public
honor, which if it had occurred in England would
(as in a similar case there a year or two ago) have
ere now resulted in the hauling up of several
highly-placed individuals for contempt of court or
some such offence, are dribbling out in the
southern metropolis. Three or four years ago a
commission was appointed with a Judge as chair-
man, to enquire into the working of the railways,
and to further its objects invitations were issued
to all and sundry to forward information or to
come as witnesses to the enquiry. Railway ser-
vants were, we are informed, specially encouraged
to come forward by a promise of protection against
subsequent persecution for giving unpalatable evi-
dence. Whether the promise was expressly given
is, however, neither here nor there, because such a
promise is impliedly made to everyone giving evi-
dence before a Govt. Board, even as the English
railway directors’ castigation alluded to above
shows. A fortiori, of course, when the Gov-
ernment giving the promise is itself the
employer of the “protected” witness. One rail-,
way workman sent, in a letter to the chairman of
the Vic. Commission, a number of serious criti-
cisms on railway administration. The fact that he
had done so came to the ears of departmental
officials interested, a departmental board sat upon
the “protected” individual, the letter was by
some singular method or other, which needs
some explanation for the sake of the aforesaid
chairman, procured by the departmental board,
and the public-spirited individual who was foolish
enough to rely on the sacred promise of the
Government of Victoria, was recommended for
dismissal (possibly on aside issue, but that doesn t
matter). The railway commissioner considered
the matter and asked the “ culprit ” what he had
to say for himself. He had the temerity to express
the wish that the evidence against him should be
taken on oath. He was dismissed or some-
thing and lost his retiring allowance. Various
members of Parliament were alleged to have
became interested in his case, and the allegation is
now about four years old. It is hard, however,
for any member who depends on the good graces
of railway officials for the lubrication of his de-
partment-trotting routine, to really feel more than
platonically interested in any case which might
lose the aforesaid officials their billets. However,
Dr. Maloney has, we understand, the case in
hand at present, and hope begins ; to pre-
sage a speedy wiping out of this disgraceful
blot on Victoria’s national honor. To the philoso-
pher, the apathy of the Vic. press and people in a
matter which, if proved, would in England have
stirred up such a stink of protest as to have driven
the Government tolerating the injustice into pri-
vate life dishonored, is the most interesting and
amazing part of the affair.
«
Far-western N.S.W. squatters had their chance
when Premier Lyne was at Bourke. Among the
requests they made were (1) that their leases
should run for 50 years ; (2) that rents should be
fixed now for the whole period. As to which —(1)
The existing leases run 28 years. It isn’t very
long where a scheme is involved for developing
the country ; similar country in S.A. is let for
over 40 years. Still, as there is “ tenant right ”
in improvements (that is, the squatter continues
to have a right to the improvements even after
the land is taken) there is little in most of the
protests that the squatter dare not make necessary
improvements on account of the shortness of the
term. The original squatter took up the best
land ; hence it had to be provided that he should
be moved on as soon as the land was wanted. It
was a good axiom for legislators ; the trouble now
is that the move-on is still provided for in
respect of land which is suitable only for
squatters’ use. In the driest parts a big outlay is
necessary ; and big outlays where the profits are
not big ought to mean fairly long terms of lease.
There is not much sense in denying those long
terms with regard to country which cannot be
used by selectors with any prospects of success.
The cry is now for a Commission to guide legisla-
tors. There is, however, the evidence and report
of the South Australian Commission, appointed
to probe a precisely similar difficulty, available for
N.S. Wales’ use. What N.S.W. wants is a
division of the country into the area which is
likely and that which isn’t likely to be wanted for
settlement for, say, 42 years; then the State can
let the squatters have the latter on the long terms
which they plead for. Mistakes will be made in
the division; but that can’t be helped. (2)
To “fix the rent for 50 years” would
mean that if the conditions became worse the
rents would be reduced. Three or four years ago,
though a re-appraisement was almost due, the
afflicted squatters couldn’t wait—they got Parlia-
ment to sanction a special reappraisement. But
if the conditions improved, no Parliament would
venture to “ break a solemn agreement.” Fixing
rent for 50 years is much the same, then, as giving
the squatter a double-headed coin to toss with.
4
Brisbane, like Sydney and Melbourne, is cut up
into a number of mean and petty municipalities.
When a comprehensive water-supply scheme was
devised for the whole metropolitan district it
couldn’t be entrusted to the councils for the
divided authority couldn’t agree about details, so
a Waterworks Board was formed—a paid body
nominated by Government, where useless and
broken-down politicians find a lazy job in their
old age. A Transit Commission was formed on
the same basis, because the numerous councils
couldn’t agree about keeping order in the streets,
granting cab and ’bus licenses, &c. A Fire
Brigades Board followed because they couldn’t
agree about the work of fire extinction. A Vic-
toria Bridge Board was created because the Vic-
toria Bridge was in two municipalities, and they
couldn’t decide as to the exact plank or half-plank
at which Brisbane’s responsibility ended ani
South Brisbane’s began. A Sewerage Board
must follow, when there is any sewerage,
and all these mean less and less control by the
people, and more perfunctory management by
broken-down party hacks who want to get a few
shillings easily in their old age. About 20 muni-
cipal and shire councils, boards, trusts, commissions
and miscellaneous thingumbob's govern Brisbane
and suburbs among them, and do it from badly to
much worse. A small agitation begins to arise for
a Greater Brisbane Council, elected on a wide
suffrage, which will absorb the Transit Commis-
sion, Fire Brigades Board, Waterworks Board,
Victoria Bridge Board, and all other boards and
planks and shavings, and it is to be hoped it will
be pushed on vigorously. At the same time it will
be a sorrowful reflection on slow-going Sydney if
the little Northern city gets ahead of it in this
matter.
+.
Launceston (Tas.) Examiner lends its feeble sup-
port to the Tory party in the dispute over the
“ right ” of appeal to the British Privy Council:
We are gravely informed by some writers that the right
to appeal to Her Majesty does not exist, that it is only the
right to appeal to her Privy Council. No one, we pre-
sume, with any reasonable conception of Royal functions
imagined that Her Majesty donned wig and gown and
took her seat among the learned members of her Council,
or discussed abstruse points of law with them, therefore
the information tendered was supererogatory. But the
Privy Council is the highest court in the realm, and there-
fore should be open to every British subject.
It is about time that somebody hit this silly old
maundering a severe discouragement on the ear.
The Privy Council isn’t the highest court of the
realm ; the highest court is the Judicial Commit-
tee of the House of Lords, to which Australians
have not access. And if the Privy Council
“should be open to every British subject ” then
there is something very seriously wrong in the
arrangements. The inhabitants of England, Scot-
land, and Ireland have no access to it. It is a
mere colonial tribunal, so the Englishman is
actually supposed to be shut out of the “ highest
court in the realm.” This glorifying of the court
which is “good enough for the colonies” as the
highest judicial institution of the empire is a trifle
ridiculous.
♦
Now that the hidoous slum properties of Wexrord-
street, Sydney, have been compulsorily washed
and fumigated, a deputation of slum landlords
has had the ineffable cheek to wait on Dr.
Graham, M.L.A., and ask his assistance to get
compensation. Also they alleged that “had there
been reasonable notification that the houses were
in an insanitary condition they would have been
glad to have priced them in repair.” These
awful people have the gall to imply that they
didn’t know the state of their, own property, .that
they didn’t know dirt when they saw it, that they
never inspected their own houses, that they
hadn’t heard that the state of Wexford-street
property in general had made it, for years and
years, one of the most notoriously foul slums in
Australia. Twelve of _ them rolled up in .all
the beauty of their pristine ignorance to point
out that they were all quite ignorant of all
these things, and if they had only known that
there was anything wrong with Wexford-street
they would have polished it up till it shone like
Solomon in all his glory. Twelve of them never
went to look at their properties to see if there was
anything wrong. Twelve of them never called
round for the rents and smelt their own tenements.
Twelve of them would never, never, never have let
things be like that if they had only known, but
they thought Wexford-street was like Potts Point,
and really believed that Attorney-General Wise
and Chief Justice Darley and Premier Lyne lived
there, and that the Bench and Bar in general were
only waiting till there were vacancies to move in
there also. And twelve of them wanted compen-
sation for having their premises cleaned for tnem
by the State. Also twelve of them were very
much shocked.
♦
When N.S.W. Parliament meets will some mem-
ber move for a return of the owners of properties
in all the infected areas of Sydney and also in
other well-known slums —city and suburban ? The
result would probably fully explain why _ the
various councils —Sydney City Council especially
—never enthused about cleaning up. It would
also, probably, explain why the Sydney City
Improvement Board died a natural death some
years ago. The Board had power to order the
demolition of hopelessly awful properties, when
they were reported to it by the Council, but as the
Council refused to report anything to it the
Improvement Board adjourned some years
ago, and never met again. Common report
has it that the worst slums in Sydney
are largely owned, or controlled as agents,
by civic magnates. They couldn’t well report
other people’s slums for demolition without
reporting their own also, and they couldn’t well
order other people to clean their slums without
cleaning their own. And the solemn fact is that
dirt pays. The way to make 10 or 15 per cent,
out of house property is to buy or build a cheap
tenement as near the city as possible, crowd as
many rooms as possible on the ground space—even
by leaving out all the decencies of life, let it to as
many poor tenants as can be compressed into the
space, and pay nothing for cleaning, papering or
painting, and as little as possible for repairs. The
unclean tenement hangs together about as long as
the clean one, and the kind of tenants wanted are
always obtainable in abundance. There is a groat
silence about the owners of these dens. Even
when 12 Wexford-street proprietors rolled up the
other day to demand compensation, their names
weren’t given by the daily papers which reported
the event.
7+ ’
Considering the rage of ex-Premier Reid’s organ,
Sydney E. News, against Lyne for his “uncon-
stitutional” conduct in submitting the N.S;W.
finances to a committee of experts, and thus
casting doubts on the wisdom of Parliament, it is
interesting to note that Reid did the same in
1896, and the News cordially approved. And
considering Reid’s fury because Lyne nominated
one of the three experts himself without reference
to Reid, it is interesting to note that Reid nomi-
nated all three of his experts himself without
reference to anybody. Reid asked his .three
carefully-selected experts to guarantee that his
surplus for 1896 was genuine. And they re-
fused to do anything of the kind—“ We
feel we are unable witli the information at our
command to give an answer,” was their reply.
But the appalling cheek of George Reid rose
superior even to this. He had selected his. own
judges, and asked them to say that his one great
surplus was a genuine, honest surplus, and pre-
sumably gave them all the evidence of its honesty
that he could raise. And they had replied that
the evidence was insufficient. And Reid pre-
sented this blasting document to the Assembly
and said, with the light of truth and enthusiasm
blazing in his glassy eye, that he was completely
vindicated, and that the report cleared his char-
acter of all suspicion.
The Efficacy of Prayer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
" . . . . Prayers moved Omnipotence to espouse the
cause of those by whom and on whose behalf they were
uttered.” —Rev. Dunstan in a recent sermon at Enmore,
Sydney.
(Feeble and timid must be the tale—
I shrink from the task dismaj 7 ’d—
For language falters and accents fail
At the Greatness to be pourtray’d.)
The Good God sat on His Great White Throne
In the midst of a million suns,
The light of a myriad gems unknown
Shone over the Shining Ones ;
For thronging the Halls of Eternal Space
A legion unnumbered stood,
Each one a God of benignant face
In that Heavenly Brotherhood.
An angel came to the Great White Throne
And a moment’s audience pray’d—
He knelt not down, and he lay not prone,
Nor other obeisance made ;
For the Infinite God and His Infinite Peers
Dwell neither as high nor low,
No worship is there, no dread, no fears,
No caste such as mortals know.
And lo ! the resplendent angel spake,
Each word was as gold refined,
His voice did the sweetest music make
As the Infinite One inclined :
“I have sped through the maze of a million suns
From a speck on.the rim of space,
Far out where the uttermost ether runs
And planets their courses trace.
In my wake I have seen great suns drop out,
Obeying Eternal Law-
Systems and comets mixed in the rout —
And Chaos again I saw.
But this, as Thou knowest, must ever be—
Though the universe rock and swing,
Thy Law is Thy Law unalterably—
And from ruin new systems spring.
On a speck as I passed lo ! a creature pray’d,
And cried in his earth-born pride :
‘ Omnipotence, moved by our prayers, is made
To fight on our praying side ! ’
For the creature’s race was at war with a race
That fought against hopeless might,
And the creature held that Omnipotence place
Was to back-up its side in the fight.”
The Good God spake from His Great White
Throne,
And unto His Peers He said:
“ So little is there to these creatures known
Their Pride is by Ignorance fed.
The speck where they dwell is their universe,
Its masters and lords are they,—
They believe we exist but to bless or curse
E’en as they may beseech and pray ;
But the greatest ‘ sin ’ and the ‘ noblest ’ deed
With which their world has rung,
The failures their mortal fate has decreed,
And the triumphs their bards have sung,
They weigh alike in th’ Eternal Scales —
They are all but incidents—-
But cause and effect of the Law that prevails
Thro’ the measured March of Events ! ”
Feeble and flattering is human speech,
Tho’ the words may witli passion burn —
But this is the truth the tale may teach,
This the lesson you may learn :
The infinite calm of the Infinite God,
In His infinite universe,
Is ne’er disturbed by a sentient clod,
Moved either to bless or to curse !
ULGOLA.


THE DXTEW POLICY OE
Tb« W&ttial Life io^raoccCo.ofNcwYork
Specifies the amount of Surrender Value at the end of each year, the amount obtainable
on Loan at 5 per cent., the amount of paid-up insurance, and the Extended Term of
full insurance.
For further information apply to Z. C. RENNIE; General Manager for Australasia
Company’s Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
AGENTS—
THE TRANSVAAL WAR 8
The PREMO CAMERA
18 IN THE FRONT RANK
OF HAND CAMERAS,
AND CANT BE BEATEN.
Price, 255. to £2O.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
■ 260 Collins-st., Melbourne. 81 Queen-st., Brisbane.
375 Ceorge-st.,
SYDNEY.
65 Rundlk-st. , Adelaide.
The Clyde Engineering Coy. [td.
MANUFACTURERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF HORIZONTAL AND TRACTION
For WINDING, HAULAGE, &c., from 2-h.p. to 1000-h.p.
m
m
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Queen Elizabeth."
Royal “ The Manoeuvres of Jane.”
Lyceum “ The Irishman.”
Palace *■ Uncle Tom’s Cabin.*
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Criterion “ Robbery Under Arms.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ What Happened to Jones.”
Theatre Royal “The Ladder of Life.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Alexandra “ Hands Across the Sea.”
Jones’s comedy, the “Manoeuvres of
.Tane,” brought an unusually large audience to
Sydney Royal last Saturday. The plague had
practically left off for two days, and the d.c.
crowd, which has mostly poured Condy’s fluid over
itself and concealed itself in terror behind the
gas-meter with a prayer-book, came out in
strength, and could be heard stating to its friends
on the stairs that it wasn’t at all frightened. It
was very well repaid, too, for its valor in coming
out and defying the bearded germ in its lair.
“ Jane ” has the great advantage of being unusual.
It is in four acts, which is seldom the case with
comedies, and it contains 21 characters. Even in
the very last act the audience keeps making the
acquaintance of perfectly new characters, who
exist and draw their salary merely to come in and
cough in the drawing-room, and leave again. Jones
isn’t a short, crisp writer like Pinero. He unfolds
his story in a large, leisurely way—in fact, Jones’s
joke falls like the gentle drizzle from heaven,
and Jones’s spacious and unhurried style is refresh-
ing if you don’t get it too often. Jones’s Jane
is almost the best opening Miss Grace Noble has
had, and she makes excellent use of it. She is the
spitfire daughter of a rich and bilious man with a
bald head (Leslie Victor is the bilious man), and
having been fired out of various schools as a dis-
turbing element, and having fallen in love with a
disreputable party unknown, she is consigned to
the care of a lady in reduced circumstances to be
firmly treated. The reduced lady promises to be
firm, and to bring Jane up with an axe if neces-
sary, and to reduce her to such a state of subjec-
tion that she will enter the room humbly on all-
fours if so instructed. Miss Bessie Thompson
makes this promise with the dangerous suavity of
a large and bitter but polite cat. And Jane, on
her side, is just about to break everything by way
of asserting herself when she finds that her lover
is in the house applying for the billet of Lord
Bapchild’s steward, and that weak and pious
young peer is enquiring into his morals. Where-
upon Jane repents publicly of all her past wicked-
ness with tears, and hugs her lover in secret.
* • * •
Thereafter it is decided that as Jane is
rich and Bapchild is also rich, as well as weak,
and oily about the hair, and given to delivering
long sermons, they had better marry. And Jane’s
companion decides that she would rather marry
Bapchild herself. And that miserable peer is
kidnapped in a rowing boat by the companion,
and is out all night through various accidents, and
is so crushed by the penniless dependent’s shrieks
about her lost character that he agrees to marry
her. And Jane elopes to meet her steward, and
through more accidents is belated in a public-
house where a beery rustic hugs her, and the
landlord says he has no very high opinion of
ladies who are out alone in strange public-houses
late at night. And Jane’s lover can’t come to her
till she has been alone in the beer-shop till
near midnight, because an interfering small
girl who tells tales and listens at keyholes has
pursued him from inquisitive motives, and he
is spending his time trying to lose her. And at
home the mysterious disappearance of everybody,
including the listening child, has reduced the
family to tears. But everybody turns up in time,
including the weak, draggled peer in the custody of
his future wife ; and the future wife’s mother who
says she will live with them after marriage;
and Jones’s comedy ends pleasantly, though none
too definitely.
* * * *
A good many people get a show in this
play. Miss Noble’s Jane and Mrs. Brough as the
governess, and Brough as the weak peer, are all
food. Brough, in fact, is more than good. His
iord Bapchild is apparently meant to show the
awful results of a pious home-training on a weak
and bashful young man with red hair and
a tendency to blush uneasily on one leg.
Bapchild can almost rank with the Private
Secretary as a character study. Leslie Victor,
Mario Majeroni, Dartrey and Lovell fill the
parts of various ordinary gentlemen of the 19th
century in a pleasing fashion. Miss Bessie Thomp-
son furnishes an admirable study of the smooth,
affable, deadly person who is going to reform
Jane; and the dreadful child who listens at key-
holes and carries tales is represented by Evelyn
Martheze. That sour, precocious infant is next
best to Brough as a character study. She is a
horrible and clever example of the child who
ought to be taken bathing in deep water at a very
early age with a large dumb-bell in her pocket.
There is a heartless fascination about her
manner of looking sideways out of her hair.
Also, her crawling method of coming up be-
hind people who are busy hugging each other,
and leering at them in a hump-backed sort of way
when discovered, makes the public feel soft, cold-
footed things walking down its spine. Most of
the public has, at some time or other, suddenly
stopped hugging somebody to find itself being
looked at like that, or thereabouts.
The “ emergency man ” is still ejecting
the noble but impecunious Irish peasant at Sydney
Lyceum with the vigor indicated in these columns
last week. The “Irishman,” and almost every
other Hibernian drama of The Bulletin’s
acquaintance, tells a very remarkable story about
the alleged state of the green but distressful isle.
Details may vary, but these seven leading features
are almost always there:
(1) The Irish landlord, however rich he may be, never
gets his rent.
(2) If he is a good landlord he lives by forgiving his
tenant for non-payment.
(3) If he is a bad one he lives by tearing down his own
property In order to get Mulcahy or Hoolan out of the
place.
(4) The good and honest tenant is never able to pay his
rent. He works hard but he never has any money.
(5) The agent is always a wicked man.
(G) The average landlord has only one tenant—the one
who is behind with his rent—and he keeps six or eight
minions in his employ for the purpose of ejecting him and
his aged father. He never lets the house to anj'one else,
and no one ever lets a house to the ejected one. The
latter either dies, or disappears, or thereafter earns an ap-
parently comfortable living by waiting for the landlord
with a gun Why he didn’t give the gun to the landlord
to square the rent is a mystery.
(7) Occasionally there ‘is a wicked tenant. He is never
embarrassed, and he doesn’t work. He is never asked for
Tu- fl e hves and I)as his whisky by walking close
behind the agent, and giving him bad advice. The agent
keeps him out of his large salary, and the landlord pays
the large salary out of the rent he doesn’t get from Mul-
cahy, who was turned out.
There are some other points about Irish drama,
but these seven will do to go on with.
** * m
The heavy-going historical play of “Queen
Elizabeth is to be staged at Her Majesty’s,
Saturday. It is a long time since
Elizabeth unfolded itsdreary but richly-clothed
dimensions in Sydney, and the only imaginable
reason for its appearance now is that Nance
U Neil s stately figure will look well sitting on a
throne. Miss O Neil has become such a favorite
that the public will probably roll up strongly to
see her ruling England, and issuing crisp orders
for the obliteration of foreign Powers, and the
destruction of armadas, and the annexation of
places, and the arrest and execution of people in
general. In fact, it is quite likely that she will
look much better in that capacity than the real
Elizabeth did. Elizabeth’s majesty was apt to be
marred by a sudden suspicion that the Lord
High Treasurer had recklessly wasted 3d. or
even 4£d.
** * *
Robbery Under Arms,” in its prison-
scene, has toned down considerably since earlier
years, when, for the sake of the bloodthirsty boy
m the gallery, it was necessary to give plenty of
Repentance to antidote the gay wrong-doin 0 * of
the previous acts. Now the Gallery Boy has the
Iransvaal to romance about, so Dick merely hears
the birds singing as they did of yore for a few
minutes instead of for an hour or two as in former
The fact that the birds sing as of yore has
a depressing effect on most criminals ; evidently
most birds sing indifferently. The present render-
ing of the “Robbery” would be better if Dam-
pier could manage to do most of the parts himself
—especially the women parts and the Jim whom
everybody loves. Dick and the two policemen,
ana perhaps a few other personages, might be re-
tained, _ but especially the two policemen.
M Uinnis and O’Hara are the real props and sup-
ports of “Robbery.” The policeman who is played
by George Buffer (the writer doesn’t remember
whether he is M'Ginnis or O’Hara) leaves an
especially favorable impression in this scribe’s
mind, whichever he is.
** * *
A wise manager generally contrives to
have one or two poor voices in his entertainment
to show up the good ones in greater relief. Sydney
Palace manager is not wise. The voices that
are not golden are always silver—the best of their
kind. He gives no smaller change. The co. gives
a pantomime sketch, and Mr. Rickards, in his
odd moments, is asked to look in and see how it is
managed. The Human Frog contorts his boneless
being as usual. He must have an excellent
memory, for he never forgets how to untie himself
after he has secured his body and all his limbs in
iiyy 6 . The co. has determined to give
Uncle Tom later on—but it is no good meeting
trouble half-way. Plague and death and war and
Uncle Thomas are things to be borne manfully
when they arrive, but not to be anticipated.
** * *
Rickards new Tivoli is about the coolest
theatre in Sydney, and among its other attrac-
tions it has the smallest performer in Sydney—
little Roy Cushin. Wallace King has returned
£om Melbourne for the manyeth time to sing
111 tell her when we meet,” and one cannot help
wishing, for Wallace’s sake, that the meeting will
take place after dark, where she can only hear his
voice and not see him in the terrible rig that a
soulless Rickards has made him wear. The Mar-
tmettis have ceased to heave pillows, and now pour
powders over each other in immense quantities and
at great length. The Newsky Family, Browne,
and I rancie Adler do various things which help
to distract the mind from the horrible advertise-
ment curtain.
* « *- *
Charles Arnold’s luck, which has always
been good what time Australia has known him,
promises to be better than ever this journey.
There are no very obtrusive points of brilliancy
about What Happened to Jones,” at Melbourne
Princess’s, but the Easter rush to witness that
cheerful, easy-going farce was a more violent epi-
demic of boodle than the Firm could achieve with
any piece of the same class during its many
years experience in the same house. A catchy
title, perhaps, helps to explain the crowd at the
early door. It suggests strange happenings, and
invites enquiry. Anyhow, the story of the
Yankee bagman who sports the black cloth
gaiters of a blameless life and represents himself
as two different doctors of divinity, is in a fair
way to hustle along for some weeks. Besides,
there must be grit in the performance, seeing that
it improves on acquaintance. The farce fits the
co., and the co. gives it an air of human probability
and natural madness. Charles Arnold Jones is a
8> likeable live man—rather than a mummer
on the stage. Fred. B. Sharp, as the troubled
professor, George Willoughby, in the thankless
character of a lost identity on the Indian war-
path, likewise Frank Denton, the young man
who resembles George Majeroni, and E. W.
Thomas, as a fat, infuriated constable, are come-
dians of the kind that this country has nothing to
say against. Two bright visions from Sydney—
Miss Hope Mayne and Miss Bensusan—do duty
as Ebenezer’s daughters, and their duty is a plea-
sure to see. _ Miss Agnes Knights would be quite
satisfactory if she didn’t drop into Miss Dot
Frederic’s fault of laughing without provocation.
Two other ladies give excellent character sketches.
Little Miss Ada Lee makes the small part of the
housemaid look large, and Miss Sallie Booth, as
the spinster sister who hopes she hasn’t changed
much in the last 30 years, is an absolutely con-
vincing old girl. Her elderly playfulness inspires
the present writer with awe.
** * *
George Musgrove will take up the lease of
the Princess’s in about six weeks time, but his
first intentions appear to be shrouded in mystery.
Thus far the only business sign of his near arrival
is the serving of an injunction, or something, upon
ex-partner Williamson, and it is said that
Musgrove will stage a financial melodrama at the
Law Court Theatre before settling down to the
ordinary cares of theatrical management in Aus-
tralia.
*
At Melbourne Royal the career of “ When
the Lamps are Lighted ” will stop short to-morrow
(Friday), and in the meantime John Sheridan’s
advt. wants to know with considerable warmth
whether the drama aforesaid is not the most
laughable thing going. The Bulletin would say
that the “ comic relief ” succeeds in leavening the
whole lump, but the lump might be a lot lighter
if it were leavened a little more. Sheridan has put
in a good time —four months altogether—at the
Royal, so the exact dimensions of his humor-
ousness are not worth measuring now that he is
going away from Melbourne for a while. We can
run the tape over him when he comes back. On
Saturday another company will appear in “The
Ladder of Life,” which is quite a different matter
from Bland Holt’s “ Span of Life.” “The Ladder”
is a war-drama, dealing with British valor outside
of the interminable South African trouble. In
fact, it goes back to the storming of the Dargai
Heights, and should afford the tired public a
pleasant relief from the recent monotony of gal-
lant attacks on kopjes.
** # *
“For Queen and Country” is doing its
best to whet the dulled edge of patriotic appetite
(or something to that effect) at the Alexandra, but
for the present Melbourne refuses to bite greedily
at Briton v. Boer drama. Moreover, the “Aleck”
audiences who lately listened with some respect
to a fairly reasonable caricature of Kruger are not
impressed by the bloodthirsty conversation of an
Oom Paul whose mere make-up stamps him as a
cheap invention of the enemy. All the same, the
broadsword combat, and the plunge into the tank,
and the pretty general efficiency of the acting are
received with thanks.
* • • *
On Saturday the Bellewesque heroism of
Alfred Woods, supported by the full force of Miss
Maud Williamson and co., will get a better oppor-
tunity to score in “Hands Across the Sea.”
Pettitt’s drama was a rather powerful improba-
bility when Charles Warner staged it at the Royal
many years ago, and if the Union Jack incident is
worked for all it is worth the house will probably
get a violent attack of Rule Britannia—on Satur-
day, anyhow.
** # #
Ludwig Amann, the flexible foreigner who
Sves a wonderful impersonation of manager
ickards when he isn’t producing less faithful
likenesses of other notable individuals, is the lead-
ing item at the Bijou just now. Melbourne’s
recollection of Biondi is not shattered by Amann,
but the versatility of Ludwig’s face and the up-to-
date character of his disguises make him a popular
attraction. The present writer has a notion that
Amann’s awful Queen Victoria is rather rough on
our long - established figurehead of the Empire,
nevertheless he must admit that the public make
a point of standing up when the band plays, which
is truly loyal evidence of their inability to see the
joke.
* * *-
Now that Lalla Miranda has conquered
critical audiences at Amsterdam and Brussels
with her sweet, flexible voice, and is about to
make a first appearance in London as the new
Australian Nightingale, her early admirers must
be wondering more than ever why the graceful
little artist —yet another Jewess, of course—had
to wait so long for her success. The cognoscenti
who rave about the “remarkable purity and
range ” of Mile. Miranda’s notes, and praise her
“ sympathetic and attractive figure” as Ophelia,
in Ambrose Thomas’s “Hamlet,” are only
repeating The Bulletin’s wayback verdict that
to see Lalla Miranda sing is almost as delightful
as to hear her do it.” The Melbourne girl warbled
[ lk f a bird when she was fifteen years of age, and
had her voice been only a little heavier she might,
with her natural intelligence and pretty Spanish
face, have taken the position of “another Patti”
years ago. The Bulletin will expect to find the
cableman (who sometimes speaks truth) recording
a great debut for Lalla Miranda at the Covent
Garden house next month.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The following is a statement of the earnings per
cent, per annum on their shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserve funds) of the various banks doing business in Aus-
tralasia, according to their last-issued balance-sheets
Interest per
cent, per
Date of annum on
Balance-Sheet. Sharehold-
t> i . -kt „ , , ers’ Funds
Bank of New Zealand .. 31st March, 1899.. £22 15 0
National of ~ .. . 14 2 6
West Australian Bank .. 30th Sept., 1599 930
Royal (Melbourne) .. .. 31st March, 1900.. 710 9
Bank of Adelaide .. .. 27th „ 1899 517 11
Queensland National .. 31st Dec., . 613 10
Bank of New South Wales.. 30th Sept., „ 613 8
Colonial (Melbourne) .. 30th March, 1900.'. 612 7
Commercial (Tasmania) .. 28th Feb., 1900.. 6 9 6
Bankof North Queensland.. 31st Dec., 1899 68 0
National (Tasmania).. .. 30th Nov 6 411
Bankof Australasia.. .. 10th April, , 413 10
Commercial (Sydney) ..31st Dec., „.. 410 1
Ballarat Banking Co. .. ~ ..466
Commercial of Australia .. „ ” " ’ y
Royal of Queensland .. ~ ” 3 17 9
Union Bank 31st Aug., ” 317 7
Bankof Victoria .. .. 31st Dec., .... 312 1
City Bank of Sydney .. ~ ... 3 6 8
E. S. and A. Bank .. .. 30th June, ”.. 215 5
National (Melbourne) ..30th Sept., „ 118 0
London Bank 31st Dec., 1898.. 1 311
A.J.S Bank 1899.. 0 9 0
Aus. Deposit and Mortgage.. ~ ' .. 07 0
Land Mortgage Bank .. „ ’’ ” Loss.
If all things were equal, the most prosperous
bank would be the one which earned the biggest per-
centage, and the least prosperous the one with the
smallest earnings. But as things are not equal there are
certain reservations to be made. The Queensland
National Bank gets its reconstructed deposits at the
cheapest rate of all ; if it paid the same rate as many of
the other banks it would be much nearer the bottom of
the list than it is. The Commercial of Australia, Colonial,
A.J.S., KS. and A., and Australian Deposit and Mortgage
Bank get their reconstructed deposits a little below the
market rate, though not so cheaply as the Queensland
National. The Commercial Bank of Australia is uncertain.
That part of it which is called the Commercial Bank of
Australia earned last half-year at the rate of £4 Is 7d per
cent, per annum on the shareholders’ funds, and that part
of the Bank which is called the Assets Trust may possibly
have lost so much as to reduce the real, earnings to very
much less it is impossible to say, in the absence of the
information which the directors should give but don’t.
The Commercial of Australia is put in as a mere uncer-
tainty. As regards the Bank of New Zealand the profits
are calculated on the private shareholders’ funds only The
£2,000,000 provided by the State for 10 years at 4 per cent.,
and the £500,000 provided permanently by the State at 31
per cent, are rather in the nature of a 10 years’ fixed
deposit and a perpetual deposit than capital, for they
receive a fixed rate of interest just as ordinary deposits
do, and have no share in the earnings beyond that. So
the profits are taken to be the earnings after paying inte-
rest on these two sums. These reservations detract some-
what from the value of the table. Still, as regards the
other banks, it contains a good deal of information about
the relative prosperity of the various institutions. And
an important feature is that all the banks, save two, show
a great improvement as compared with last June, when a
similar list was published. The two exceptions are the
Bank of Victoria, the earnings of which show a decline
of 9d. per cent., and the West Australian Bank, which
shows a drop of £4 Is. sd. per cent.
* * ¥ *
The Colonial Bank (Melbourne) issues, for the
half-year ended 31st March, 1900, the best balance-sheet
it has produced since the Deluge—Australia’s own partic-
ular deluge. The three stages of the Colonial Bank during
the post-reconstruction period have been as follows:
Period when the Colonial Bank paid
4£ per cent, on reconstructed deposits :
September, ’93, Profit £5966 I September, ’94, Profit £2247
March, ’94 .. „ 9853 | March, ’95 .. Loss 4694
Period when the Colonial Bank paid
2| per cent, on reconstructed deposits :
September, ’95, Profit £7BO March, ’97 .. Profit £3043
March, ’96 .. „ 2564 September, ’97 „ 3312
September, ’96 „ 2004 March, ’9B .. „ 3398
Period when the Colonial Bank paid
3 per cent, on reconstructed deposits :
September, ’9B, Profit £853 I September, ’99, Profit £7078
March,’99 .. „ 5691 | March, 1900 .. „ 11,472
The improvement in the last two years is certainly
remarkable, and the Colonial Bank’s earnings are now
equal to £5 12s. 7d. per cent, per annum on the share-
holders’ funds (Preference capital, £304,044; ordi-
nal capital, £98,392; reserve fund, £5000). A
dividend at 4 per cent, per annum on the pre-
ference capital uses up £6OBl ; an addition of £5OOO is
made to reserve fund raising it to £lO,OOO ; and the other
£391, added to previous balance, leaves £2OOB to carry
forward. The total reserves are therefore £12,008. This
isn’t very much certainly, and though the Colonial’s re-
serve before the smash was only £287,500 it will take a
long time at the present rate to get back to any-
thing like the old position. Still good progress is
being made, and if the dividends are only kept low as at
present, and the effort to rebuild the reserve fund is
carried on persistently, the prospects look very good.


/
TOE
KK!
iUmu
TftE
|®TE!
' .«M fM£
ZETZs^cN
Bmxm@m
MEM. DU&BO
f^SrW*
r&pe’tf tfobaecea
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
NAYY AND WAR OFFICE.
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros, & Co,, Ltd,, Liverpool Agents iM. Rutty & Co„ Sydney.
I«r,
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.’ 1
SLIMES!!
ONLY
Successful
Treatment
by
Cyanide Plant Supply Co., London.
All particulars on application to
Hy. flarkwald,
178 William Street. Melbourne; also at
Brisbane, Adelaide, Dunedin, Wellington, Auckland.
XI Pitt Street,
Sydney;
A. E. (aOLPSTEIN,
(c/o S. HOFFNUNG & CO., SYDNEY)
—BUYER OF —
Opal, Pearls, Diamonds
& Sapphires in the Rough.
On Invitation will Visit any Gem Field.
ZOLLNER’S
Patent Galvanised Steel Pipes.
Superior to all others for Mining, Water Supplies,
Ventilating, Sluicing, Irrigation, Wool-washing
and Scouring. Light. Strong. Cheap.
For Prices
and particulars apply
S. ZOLLNER,
30-36 Druitt-at., Sydney.
In other respects the Colonial’s balance-sheet
wears a promising aspect. Note circulation has in-
creased largely. New deposits have gone up from
£1,292,041 six months ago to £1,634,221. The old recon-
structed deposits are now down to £857,087, a reduction
of £lBO,OOO during the half-year ; and as the amount still
unpaid is so small, it seems probable that the institution
will, in another year or two, get clear of its reconstruction
troubles altogether—that is to say, if the present pros-
perity continues. Cash and liquid securities stand at
£788,425 —an increase of £126,000. The one subject of
doubt is—are any of the profits, and, if so, how much of
them, earned, not in the ordinary course of business, but
by buying up the old deposits at a depreciated figure ?
This question applies to several reconstructed institu-
tions. It is only interesting as affecting the outlook ; if
much or any of the profits arise from this purely tempor-
ary source, the permanent prospect isn’t all that it seems.
* * * •
The great Queensland brewing firm of Perkins
and 00., Limited, is still doing well; in fact, Perkins’s
joint-stock beer reached its zenith this year. The record
since the co was founded is this :
Dividend and
Profit. dividend duty.
Brought from old co. £4,558
28th Feb., 1894 Q year) 7,528 £lO per cent = 3,062
„ 1895 (year) 10,035 10 „ = 6,125
„ 1896 ( „ ) 11,783 10 „ = 6,125
„ 1897 ( „ ) 12,945 10 „ = 6,125
„ 1898 ( „ j 16,067 13 6s 8d „ = 8,167
„ 1899 ( „ ) 19,456 13 6s 8d „ = 8,167
1900 ( „ ) 24,404 15 16s 8d „ = 9,697
£105,776 £47,468
Last year, therefore, Perkins and 00. Ltd., realised nearly
42 per cent, on its paid-up capital of £58,334. Curiously
enough this prosperous concern has never yet started a
reserve-fund, and the £58,308 which it has accumulated
is still described as “balance carried forward.” The co.
certainly ought to transfer the £58,000 to a reserve.
“ Reserve-fund ” has at least the merit of sounding fixed,
and solid, and permanent. “ Balance carried forward ”
sounds like a transitory sort of thing, that might be
“ blewed ” any day in paying a 100 per cent, bonus. Dur-
ing the seven years, Perkins and Co., in addition to pay-
ing large dividends, has come within £26 of doubling its
capital. Old “ Jonah ” Perkins might be an unlucky man
aboard ship, but his name seems to bring unlimited good
fortune to a brewery.
* • » •
Tooth and Co. Limited, brewers, of Sydney,
publish a half-yearly balance-sheet to 31st March, 1900.
The net profits, after writing off depreciation, compare
with some previous ones as follows :
Profit. Dividend.
September, 1893 .. £65,456 8 per cent. => £36,000
March, 1894 .. 36,603 7 „ 31,500
September, 1894 .. 31,048 7 „ = 31,500
March, 1895 .. 39,765 7 „ = 31,500 •
September, 1895 .. 31,319 7 ~ = 31,500
March, 1896 .. 41,568 7 „ = 31,500
September, 1896 .. 32,772 7 „ = 31,500
March, 1897 .. 40,055 7 ~ = 31,500
September, 1897 .. 33,074 7 „ = 31,500
March, 1898 .. 40,278 7 „ = 31,500
September, 1898 .. 33,625 7 „ = 31,500
March, 1899 .. 40,741 7 „ = 31,500
September, 1899 .. 35,706 7 „ = 31,500
March, 1900 .. 37,979 7 „ = 31,600
£509,989 £445,600
An addition of £5OOO is made to reserve-fund, raising it to
£lOO,OOO, of which £60,000 has been accumulated during
the period covered by the above figures. The remainder,
added to previous balance, leaves £10,844 to carry for-
ward. Altogether Tooth’s has no apparent cause to com-
plain at present. It isn’t every beer enterprise which has
distributed £445,500 in dividends in the past seven years,
and added £64,489 to its reserves in the same period.
• * • •
“Bayswater”: (1) Wouldn’t buy any more of
the shares mentioned. No special hurry to sell, and
Sou may possibly get a better price for them by waiting a
ttle. (2) The deposits of the first bank mentioned aren’t
reckoned quite safe for 20s. in the £, but as likely as not
they will pay that. Even if they only paid 16s. in the £
ultimately you couldn’t complain at the price. (3) E. S.
and A. are good enough. There is very little to choose
between the two kinds.
* * * *
Bank shares rise steadily. B. N.S.W. were last
week sold at 40 guineas.
• * • •
British B.H. directors cable out that the year’s
profit has been £72,088, and the last half year’s £43,658 ;
which is by far the co.’s best in its 12 years’ eventful his-
tory. A div. of 2s. 6d. is announced ; of this, it is ex-
plained, Is. properly belongs to this year (the co.’s year
ends Dec. 31). The mine has big bodies of good milling
stuff—not rich, but better than most to handle. Com-
pare the results with those of its neighbor, the Junction.
British (figures are one week’s) : 2325 tons crude ore
milled for 313 tons first concentrates and 129 tons seconds.
That means about five tons of ore to make one of concen-
trates. Junction: 1314 tons ore milled for 183 tons product
(126 tons firsts, 57 tons seconds). That is, about 7J tons
of ore to make one of concentrates. The Junction makes
no cleaner extraction ; but all this extra treatment, all
this extra crushing and jigging, involving extra loss of
metal, has to be done in the case of the Junction ore in
order to get out the refractory garnet sandstone, rhodon-
ite, &c. The British ore is not rich ; it averages only
about silver and 17 per cent. lead. But, being a
comparatively easily-dressed ore, it is worth much more
than ore of nominally equal value from some other mines.
The Junction ore is worth 13 to 14 per cent, lead, and 9
to lOoz. silver—less than the British, it is true ; but the
difference in the metallic values is not nearly so important
as the difference in the composition of the ores. Moral:
Don’t place much dependence upon assay-values.
* m m m
Talking of assay-values, it is interesting to note
that the B.H. Central (Sulphide Corporation), which pays
very big divs., has an ore worth about 14oz. silver
and 16 per cent. lead. This is not high ; but the
great size of the lode and the excellence of all the arrange-
ments add to the value of the ore, which is not of par-
ticularly free-milling quality. Its neighbor, the South, is
producing ore worth 9’2oz. silver and 22 per cent, lead ;
and that is so good that shareholders might reasonably
have expected even better results, notwithstanding that
the ore is generally very hard. There certainly is room
for improvement.
* * * *
The jury which inquired more-or-less into the
Balmain colliery-shaft accident expressed the opinion
that miners using shafts ought to be medically examined
every six months ; and I have been getting practical
miners’ opinions about it (a Bulletin correspondent
writes). Most of those who don’t say “ Rubbish ! ” say
“ Rot! ” The older the miner, I observe, the more
emphatic is he inclined to be. The most representative
man put it this way : “Occasionally a captain goes off his
dot, no doubt; and then the ship may go to the bottom.
Therefore, examine captains every six months —and don’t
trouble about the ships 1 Run the tape over the captains,
if you like, but it’s a darn sight more necessary to look
after the hulls. So with mining. It isn’t the men who
are wrong so often as the appliances. Make them safe,
and we’ll take the risks of our own and even, our mates
sickness." _
The Balmain colliery aocident has had one effect
—a regulation (hanging fire for some time) has been
gazetted in Westralia limiting the number of men who
may be hauled-up or lowered in a cage at one time to four.
Miners, however, growl, because it means delay.
* * * *
At last there is definite news of systematic
work begun at Wertago copper claims, outside Wil-
cannia. Remarkably good assay returns have been had,
but the formation is very much disturbed. Shaft-sinking
is being done, with results that make the field well worth
watching. * * *
Dear Bulletin. —Are mines only inspected
after a serious accident has happened ? I know a mine
in Gundagai district in which the mining regulations are
utterly disregarded. It was inspected about nine months
ago, and a number of alterations were ordered, but no
attempt has been made to see if they have been effected.
I was below a few days ago. Entered workings by ladder-
way in main uncentered shaft, made an inspection, and
on arrival at surface again had a look round expecting
to find permanently located a doctor, coroner, and half-a-
dozen life-assurance agents.
* * • •
The first telluride of gold specimen got in Q.
was found in No. 2 South Great Eastern, Gyinpie, the
richest mine on the field.
* » • *
Croydon gold - returns for March : —Quartz,
2855 tons for 6441f0z., an increase of 1809Joz. over pre-
vious month. Cyanide—3l33 tons tailings for 17410 z.
bullion averaging £1 4s. per oz. For March quarter
Croydon’s output was 6709 J tons for 13,4180 z. from quartz,
and 4103 tons for 25020 z. from tailings cyanided. March
calls, £776; divs., £64oo—making £13,400 for the two
months.
Croydon notes : —For the first quarter of year,
Gashman’s Golden Gate 3 and 4 South (a private syndi-
cate) crushed 1690 tons ore for 54630 z. gold, average value
£2 13s. 5Jd. per oz. ; or a gross value of £14,604 7s. lid.
Average yield per ton, 3oz. 4dwt. 16gr., equal to
£8 12s. lOd. Co. paid usual monthly div. of £5OO per
16th share for April. Crushing continues at the rate of
140 tons per week. As mail was leaving (April 8) it was
reported that Jimmy Rogers had another streak of luck
in a tribute in Tracey’s Block, portion of the Golden Gate
Consols lease. Cuthbert’s Golden Gate 5 South crush-
ing for nearly IJoz. ; big body of stone. Federation
co’s (ornamentally mismanaged in the past) property is
being floated into a purchasing co. on Charters Towers.
Splendid plant, good reef, only systematic work needed
to make it pay.
* * * •
Dear Bulletin. — Re “Mount Garnet’s” letter
(B. 17/3, ’00) let me point out a few errors. He says “ Mt.
Garnet is 28 miles from the C.R.M.’s branch”; real
distance is just under 20; also Mt. Cardwell is only 10
miles from the head of the C.R.M. branch. And the
route via Atherton is not 25 miles shorter ; at the outside
it is but ten miles less, and another thing, the railway
would be a second edition of the Cairns line —very severe
grades and enormous expense would be involved to build,-
it, as they have any amount of tunnels and very large
cuttings. The C.R.M. hasn’t a tunnel on its line.
Either “ Mt. Garnet ” is a chump or else he owns a cat
located somewhere on the Atherton route.— Flabby Paul.
• • * •
The Berry Consols does not long outlast the
Madame Berry, the parent of the famous Oreswick group.
The Consols ground is exhausted, and in what was for-
merly the No. 1 co.’s ground there is no more prospecting
to be done. For another six months divs. will be paid
from stuff exposed ; after that . But as £349,500
divs. have been paid on a called-up capital of £67,ooo(the
water and wash gave trouble at first) the concern has been
a.very good advt. for mining. To the end of the co.’s
half-year the output of gold was £886,642 ; so that practic-
ally 40 per cent, of earnings have gone to shareholders.
» * * •
Bendigo’s best recent development has been in
the Eureka—one of the mines which has been making
steady calls for years while it groped down from 2700 ft. to
3030 ft., and felt about in drives and crosscuts there. The
stone is big ; where the first crushing was got the cap of
the reef was about sft. high and 15ft. across. This first
crushing gave 88joz. from 77 tons. The co. deserves
something good. Though only a small concern, like most
at Bendigo, it has called up £57,750, while its divs. have
been under £lB,OOO. Its neighbor, the New Chum Rail-
way, which is down 200 ft. deeper, seems also to be taking
a deserved change for the better.
* * * *
Argo G.M. Co. —Veteran J. A. Wallace has re-
tired from this concern disappointed and after a loss of
£19,000. Last year he agreed to put a dredge on it, for
24,000 shares ; he has now withdrawn his dredge and sent
back the shares. Various excuses were given at the
meeting—one that with a bucket-dredge the ground
could have been worked at one-third of the actual cost.
Then there was an insinuation that all the gold had not
been got—the Directors did not attend the clean-ups ;
one nnan believed there was £150,000 worth of gold in the
ground still. Wallace replied that the people who talked
of working ground at 3d. per yard never had any pay-
sheets to meet, or other troubles of that kind. lie
originally thought the ground would pay and was sorry
for the shareholders and himself that it had been proved
otherwise ; he never attended the clean-ups of his own
dredging claims ; but trusted to his representative.
* * * *
The Vic. Govt, had, at time of writing, almost
come to terms with Mr. Shedden, the agent for the
mysterious English syndicate which proposes to open up
Mount Deddick with a narrow-gauge railway, 94 V miles
long. The draft contract stipulates for an expenditure of
£300,000 on the railway, and a further outlay of £50,000
on the 1000 acres of land granted to the hopeful specula-
tors for a term of 30 years, the Govt, reserving the right
to acquire the line upon a valuation at the end of 15
years. Shedden will have to plank down £lO,OOO in
guarantee of the syndicate’s existence, prior to his going
to London, on three months “ leave,” to get the contract
signed. The story of the far-off capitalists who paid
an English expert £3OOO to discover a rich copper field,
where Vic. experts had failed to_gce anything definite, will
continue to sound incredible until it is corroborated by
that £lO,OOO guarantee. Up to now, the people who have
talked about Mt. Deddick didn’t seem to dream of putting
up the boodle which speaketh so much louder than words.
» * •* *
It isn’t only surface reefs that give handsome
specimen stone at Bendigo. In the Unity at 2260 ft. the
other day a small show piece was broken, the gold form-
ing a slender ring about the stone, while between the
metal and the matrix is a hard shiny casing. Proposed
to send it to Paris, of course.
« • * *
Dear B.—Lonergan, of Mount Lyell, who knows
just as much of mining as any other new chum at the
game, signed bitter letters to the Arous opposing W. R.
Wilson’s scheme of Lyell amalgamation, and that
journal published, among other things, Lonergan’s glori-
fication of Lonergan. According to Lonergan, Lonergan
had always known the value of N. Lyell and the S6uth and
some others which, like the North and South, were most
hopeless shows until quite recently. Lonergan concluded
with some remarks to the effect that Lonergan had borne
nasty insinuations for some years from the Lyell crowd,
and now that his energy and foresight and faith and hope
and trust and other things had been rewarded, he didn’t
propose to cut the reward up. The amateur miner who
“ always knew the value of the mine ” is not a new person-
age. The Boulder by sheer accident struck a phenomenal
lode, and immediately the men who had traded off the
cat achieved fame as mining geniuses. The building of
the N. Lyell’s foolish railway, and the purchase of its
steeplechasing steamboat, and the project of its unneces-
sary smelters, are the result of the late lamented Orotty’s
recognition of the impossibility of ever getting a seat on
the Lyell board. Also, when the N. Lyell was floated in
London, the bush fires and the new track hadn’t found the
present lode, therefore the N. Lyell was nothing to talk
about at the time. The South Lyell’s first ore was got
very recently at some hundreds of feet below the surface,
and until that ore had been cut the South was simply a
cat. Therefore I rise again to protest against Mr. Lonergan
“ knowing the ore was always there,” and furthermore
beg leave to sniff disdainfully at Mr. Lonergan’s “ fore-
sight and faith and hope,” and all the rest of it, though I
don’t deny his energy.— Mainshaft.
» * • *
Said to be now over 300 dredging co.’s in M.L.,
and there will probably be 500 before the year is out. The
thin-skulled public has entered spiritedly into the allur-
ing gamble, and never since the golden days of old has
the market showed such a tendency to yellow fever. The
most remunerative of the gold-scooping dredges is Hart-
ley and Riley’s, whose shares have fluctuated between £l5
16s. and £lB 125., and publication of their splendid
returns only adds fuel to the gambling fire. Foundries
have been working day and night for the last nine months
vainly endeavoring to catch up with orders for machinery,
and a great many new co.’s will probably not get their
appliances for 12 months or more. But a little item of
this sort doesn’t apparently trouble rash investors.
• * * •
Westralia’s gold output for March, 1900, was
126,0490 z. February’s output was 117,8490 z. ; so the
March return was really worse than that for February, the
fall being over lOOoz. per working day. Both February
and March were worse than January (143,8190 z.). The
1899 yield was 1,643,8760 z., and to keep up this average
the first three months of 1900 should have yielded about
410,0000 z. They only panned out for 387,7170 z. It
wouldn’t be much of a fall on a goldfield where shares
sold on their dividend value only, but they don’t do that
in W. A. They sell on the London Stock Exchange swindle
value.
* • * *
A deathly silence has, for the last month or two,
been creeping over the Boulder mines, says a Bulletin
correspondent. Formerly the sound of the stampers
could be heard like a Niagara for miles around, but now
there is not a sound. The reason is not far to seek. The
oxidised ore has almost given out, and there is no work
for the battery. The only mines which can boast of still
having any oxidised ore are the Boulder, Ivanhoe and
Horseshoe—especially the “ Shoe,” which has abundance
in sight and many lodes to open up. The managers of
these “ shows ” can sit by quietly and see the other mines
wasting their substance in trying to treat the sul-
phides economically. Even the Lake View has shut down
its stamps, and must in future stake its all on the sulphide.
And we are going to have as much difficulty in its profit-
able treatment as they did on Broken Hill, and whilst the
problem is unsolved the West will experience the dreariest
and dullest time it has yet gone through. They are
putting men off literally by the hundreds on the big
mines. Thousands are out of work, property is
almost unsaleable, and the gloom that bespeaks
depression hangs over the place like a pall. The
whole sulphide problem has to be faced and fought
out once and for all. What is the use of the sulphide if
it cannot be made to pay? After all, when the glamour
and romance have departed from gold-mining, it becomes
just such a business as selling tea and sugar. The mines
must pay or be abandoned. The Lake View and Asso-
ciated have been winning gold lately at about £6 per
ounce. This can never go on, and so we in the West are
at present in the Slough of Despond, and those Delectable
Hills (our champion gold getters) are common sul-
phide lodes, at present of no value. This is the dark side
of the picture, but the cloud will lift and once properly
treated the sulphide will make Westralia the richest
mining camp in the world (the Rand and Cripple Creek
given in). All our mines have sulphide ore, not in small
lodes like those in which we got the oxidised, but
in immense bodies beginning at the 200 ft. level and going
down indefinitely; and the ore will simply have only to
be stoped out to yield its enormous treasure. Some idea
of the vastness of the sulphide may be gathered from the
fact that they have it in the Hannan’s North and also at
Mt. Robinson, an almost unbroken lode of eight miles
long. The West is only in its infancy—we won’t see its
hey-day perhaps for ten years.
* • • •
Kalgoorlie is going to try smelting its own rich
tellurides, hitherto shipped east. The Golden Horseshoe
makes the experiment; a water jacket and two roasting
furnaces are nearly ready there. Gen. manager Suther-
land is a furnace expert; he graduated at the B.H. Prop.
* * *
Though scarcely older in months than the Vic-
torian fields are in years, some Kalgoorlie cos. are already
planning for workings as deep as the average of even
Bendigo deep mines. Boulder Perseverance, for instance,
down so far only 500 feet, is building a plant to haul from
2,500 feet.
• * * *
South Australia has never had a good gold-
mine, but there have been many “ prospects,” and the
latest, the New Wilgena, was lately found away in the
sandy, waterless country 300 miles N.W. of Port Augusta.
Alleged that there is a quartz and ironstone reef of
“ about 18 inches,” and that there are numberless speci-
mens “ simply thick with gold.” The discoverers have
the sense, however, to deprecate a rush to the New
Eldorado.
• * • ■
South Australia takes its mining industry by
the hand in a paternal way. It keeps a mining inspector,
an old Bendigo and B. H. manager, perpetually on the move
inspectingminesand things, and advising owners about de-
velopment and treatment; also, it has erected batteries
and cyanide plants wherever there has been shown to be
need of them —even away up in the heart of the con-
tinent. Lately it agreed to erect concentrating works on
low-grade copper-fields ; and the plans for smelting
works at Pt. Augusta are in hand. And now it is an-
nounced that it has helped the Mt. Gunson copper co.,
owning a “show ” in the Far North, to buy a concentrat-
ing plant, lending £l5OO without interest on the security
of the product. This latter is partly with a view to keep-
ing the Pt. Augusta smelter constantly in blast. As to
this Mt. Gunson, general-manager Greenway, of B.H.
Block 14, who lately reported on it, said that the ore could
be dressed to 18 per cent., and sent even as far as Pt.
Adelaide for treatment (Greenway’s works are at Pt. Ade-
laide) at a profit of 3s. 7d. per ton crude with copper as
low as £6O per ton. The ore is all low-grade—plenty of
it, but apparently in an irregular formation; so that
there isn’t the usual peg on which to hang the comforting
old fable that “ the ore will no doubt improve with
depth.”
• • • •
One popular argument in favor of a through line
from Sydney to Broken Hill via Cobar and Wilcannia, has
been that by the low rates that would be possible on so
long and cheap a line, N.S.W. Western coal-fields would
be able to supply Barrier requirements. But Railway
Commissioner Kirkcaldie, ex-traffic manager, when lately
at Broken Hill, said that that traffic was impossible—an
overland line simply could not compete with the existing
service to Port Pirie, and thence 330 miles by rail through
S. Aus.
* * * *
During the 12 months to the middle of March
the average price for tin was exactly double the average
price for the 12 months ending the second week in March,
’9B; the figures were £125 7s. and £62 13s. 6d. Yet the
deliveries in London, the Continent, and the United
States during the ’99-’OO twelve months were, in spite of
all efforts to increase the output, little more than 5000
tons greater—66,soo tons as against 61,000 tons.
*'* • *
Last year in Vic. 964 mining leases were forfeited
for failure to employ the preserved labor. To the middle
of March this year 252 had been added to the list.
The tributors’ end of the stick—a sample half-
dozen tributing returns issued one recent day at Bendigo
Specimen Hill, 12 loads for 2oz. 16dwt. ; United Devon-
shire, 24 loads for 4oz. 17dwt. ; Eureka, 36 loads for 9oz.
lldwt. ; N.C. United, 87 loads for 12oz. ; New Hopeful,
8 loads for loz. lOdvvt. ; Lazarus, 42 loads for 4oz. lldwt.
Take hauling and crushing charges, and cost of stores and
explosives and sundries out of 4oz. from 42 loads,
and then stop wondering why Bendigo is a good recruit-
ing ground for Westralian, B. Hill, and Queensland co’s.
* * * #
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucuu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * * •
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. W. & J. Lempriere, Mining Machinery
Merchants, 506 Little Collins-street, Melbourne, report
that the Luhrig system of concentration is gradually es-
tablishing itself in the principal mills of Australia. The
latest Luhrig vanner has a large capacity, and owing to
important improvements the life of the belt, &c., is greatly
increased. Vanners and spare parts are stocked in Melb.
and prompt delivery is thus assured. A small testing
plant is available near Melbourne. Upon receipt of
necessary data, estimates for complete plants, including
batteries, rolls, trommels, jigs, classifiers, vanners, &c.,
will be proceeded with by competent engineers.*
* » * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * •
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rook Drills,
Air Compressors, &0., &c.*
* • • *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “ big prospecting shows ” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
• • • *
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent castdron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andall sorts of iron-work.*
* * * •
The Great Boulder Co., Kalgoorlie, have just
placed an order with the Austral Otis Engineering Co.,
Ltd., South Melbourne, to build a pair of Compound Con-
densing Engines of 700 h.p. to drive their extensive mill-
ing plant. These engines will be of the latest type with
Proell valve gear, the fly-wheel is 20ft. in diameter,
grooved for 16 ropes and weighs upwards of 22 tons, the
total weight of engine will be 85 tons ; the engines are to
be completed by the end of the year, and will be the
finest and largest plant on the field. Three engines
under construction at the Otis Works for the Kalgoorlie
Goldfields have an aggregate of 1800 horse power.*
* * * »
Bankers’ Magazine, October, 1899: “ Since
its establishment in 1873, the Colonial Mutual has written
79,800 policies, representing nearly 25 millions of assur-
ance ; it has paid to policy-holders £2,148,600.”*
* •* * »
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
McCreery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, having proceeded to England to attend to the
flotation of several mining properties, they are prepared
to receive particulars of other ventures suitable for
European flotation.*
• * • *
At least three mostly-Adelaide syndicates have
well-equipped camel parties prospecting in Central and
North Central Australia.
* * * *
Aftermuch consideration, the Tasmanian Copper
00. (West Coast) is moving towards the erection of a
smelter on its mine. The co. (which is mostly J. Bull)
has an immense ore body containing gold, silver, copper
and zinc, the whole forming a most difficult smelting pro-
position. Generally believed that the co. will put up a
small water-jacket for experimental purposes on the spot,
as the co.’s metallurgist, is said to have a process of his
own to try. All the co’s mine officials are from Yankee-
land.
* • • *
Victoria has a mine named “the Mother of
Millions,” which has a few tons of good ore on surface and
some left in the mine, if newspapers are to be believed.
But if the name does not send it into early liquidation
nothing else will.
Lord Methuen, thusfar, has scored a better
average against the Boers than any of the other
generals. At the outset he won three hard-fought
engagements in succession. Then came the much
criticised defeat at Magersfontein, where his plan
of attack was made known to the enemy before-
hand through the foolish talk of one or more of
his officers. After the Magersfontein affair
Methuen had no need to beat a humiliating retreat
as predicted by newspaper alarmists ; on the con-
trary he held his ground until Lord Roberts was
ready to work a surprise on Cronje. Doing
nothing in particular he did it very well. Lately
he has been going again and the cable, whilst
crediting him with two or three little successes, has
not recorded any blunders against him. It was
Methuen who managed to intercept and capture a
small force of valuable Boer ‘ ‘ mercenaries ” under
the command of the French colonel who seemingly
lost his life in an attempt to get through. The
unexpected is always happening in South African
warfare, so perhaps the lately,maligned Methuen
will rank as the most trustworthy general on the
job when all the accounts are made up. A British
commander able to roam around and casually in-
tercept somebody, instead of getting intercepted
himself, seems a decidedly promising person, even
though he is only prevailing over Europeans whose
knowledge of the country is no greater than his
own.


DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
MERCERS, HATTERS, and GENERAL OUTFITTERS.
SOFT FRAME FELT.
7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
STRAW HATS.
2/9, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6.
AUSTRAL TROPICAL HELMETS— IO/6, 12/6.
tat IMPORTERS OF
HTGHGRADE ENGLISH & AMERICAN
FELT HATS, NECK WEAR,
AA.-v . UMBRELLAS,, etc., etc.
PARIS HAT.
21/-, 22/6, 25/-
HARD FELT HAT.
8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
George & Barrack
v- Streets,
SYDNEY?
mn
&O TO HC^T.T.-
IGOI.AND for Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real good stamps, sendto
Fred. Nagei?,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SOCIETY
The Bulletin hopes that some of the
N.S.W. “Imperial. Bushmen,” while camped on
Rookwood Estate, paid a visit to the Benevolent
Asylum across the road. In that institution are
some “Imperial pensioners” rewarded by their
grateful country for meritorious service, in the
Crimea and Indian Mutiny. These battle-scarred
veterans, unfitted for peaceful pursuits as a result
of their experiences by flood and field, are en-
joying the evening of their lives on the reward
they have so well earned—pensions of from four-
pence to ninepence a day, expended in procuring
luxuries in a poorhouSe.
* • • •
The members of the first S.A. contingent
were insured in the Citizens’ Life office against
death or disablement, and three of them are dead,
bo that £750 has already had to be paid out of a
premium not double the sum. Before the second
lot were despatched the war had begun to look
serious, and no co. would take the risk, so the Govt,
has had to pay in the case of the One trooper, so
far dead. The S. A. bushmen were insured against
death but the co. declined to take the risk of dis-
ablement. Evidently no attempt will be made to
insure the “ Imperial bushmon.”
SPORT IN SHEOL.
EGYPUS: “I say, what’s the fun, Nero?”
NERO: “I had a parson on my fork and he
melted.”
The services of a really smart officer be-
longing to a country mounted regiment were called
into requisition during the formation of the last
N.S.W. Bushmen’s Corps for S. Africa. He
speaks with considerable scorn of some of the
officers appointed to the Bushmen. On one occasion
he Says he was asked, “Capt. , can you tell
me where my company is situated ?” The com-
pany was standing at attention 50yds. from the
inquirer, yet he could not see it ! Another “Bush”
officer, who had spent all his life in a Sydney
office, was asked to point out the two men wearing
caps instead of the regulation helmets. After a
long stare through conspicuous eye-gear he pointed
to the extreme left of his company, where, the men
were all correctly dressed. It was the two staff-
officers by his side who wore the caps. Were
these men tested medically for sight ?
* * * *
In connection with the S. Aus. contingent
of Imperial “ bushmen,” Adelaide is talking of the
son of a Very Naice family who, thrown out at
the first riding test, jumps up now a non-com. !
And the smiles are all the broader because, at the
former throwing-out, a pretty little story was told
of somebody trying to influence the selectors and
being promptly sat upon, oh, so heavily !
* * * *
Govt. Houses in gloom: Brisbane de-
serted ; Melbourne with only an Acting-Head-
piece ; Perth deserted ; Sydney mourning for a
Governor’s brother; A ’elaide mourning for a
Governor’s brother-in-law. The dead Captain
Boyle, brother of Lady Tennyson, is one of six
sons of Mr. Charles John Boyle, of County Cork.
Lady Tennyson is connected by marriage with the
Buxtons, late of Govt. House, Adelaide, and the
Hopetouns, late of Melb. Govt. House. General
Red vers Buffer is also a relative, being her cousin’s
husband.
A new evening daily, the Reporter, was
registered in Melbourne last week. It is said that
the Harmsworth crowd, probably stirred thereto
by David Syme’s whacking the cost of the Borch-
grevink picnic with opposition man Newnes, have
planked down £300,000 to collect the best men
from the Australian papers and run a sort of Mel-
bourne Daily Mail. But this gorgeous scheme
doesn’t harmonise with another rumor that the
new daily is to be syndicated among well-known
political aspirants, every one of whom will pro-
bably want to run it for himself.
* * * *
The daily journal that a few weeks ago
gave up to an aggrieved party to escape libel pro-
ceedings, the name of the contributor of an
offensive article, has numerous precedents in its
favour. Several N.S.W. country newspapers now
existing have saved themselves in that way; and
not a few of the city journals of Australia may
go into that wobbly boat. Sydney’s first news-
paper used at intervals to insert the notice: “I shall
publish nothing the authorship of which I cannot
give at once. Why should I run the risk of being
ruined ?” Very fair. But worthy pressman Bent
lived to learn that the giving-up of the name does
not, unless a compact to that effect has been
entered into, wipe out the offence. The aggrieved
party has stiff legal claim. Where, in important
matters the contributor has been mistaken he
should give up his own name ; where malicious, it
should be given up for him—perhaps; but then, as
in all walks, a mysterious thing called Etiquette
takes part in this play.
* * ♦ *
An awful state of affairs was revealed at
the trial of a youth of 21 in Victoria last
week. Accused was found guilty of criminally
assaulting his cousin’s daughter, a child of six.
The child’s mother is a lunatic. The grand-
mother, who acted as guardian, when told of the
assault, had seemingly regarded the circumstance
as a matter of no importance, and took no further
notice. Another member of the family was in-
criminated on a similar charge, and a third stands
committed for the murder of the girl’s aunt. Few
of the witnesses could give the dates of their birth,
and. many could neither read nor write ; while one
fearsome specimen—a boy of 14—couldn’t even
give the present date A.D., nor the name of the
month. All these people came from a long-settled
district of Victoria.
* * * *
In a recent N.S.W. criminal-assault case
alleged to have been committed on a child 8| years
old, evidence, disclosed that the child was illegiti-
mate, and that her grandmother, mother (it was
her mother’s temporary husband who was charged
with the assault) and aunt were “ living with men,”
and-her uncle had deserted his wife for the more
alluring charms of that lady’s- sister, said wife
being consoled by his brother. The child stated
that she had never been taught the difference
between the truth and a lie, that she had never
heard of God, and did not know what the Bible
was, And yet cheerful idiots of both sexes swarm
over to China and elsewhere to convert the “pore
heathen.”
* * * *
There is no telling from one meal to
another how some Judges will jump. For in-
stance, at a country N.S.W. sessions, the other
day, two men were charged with stealing soda-
water bottles, a manufacturer’s property. “Oh,
well-;” said his Honor, “ I suppose Mr. Softstuff
simply wants to have it shown that these bottles
are his, and that the practice of dealing in them
is illegal ”; and a nominal sentence followed.
Presently, in a case of stealing ore-specimens,
counsel urged that it was quite the custom for
miner’s to take a few specimens—it helped them
in their work to have some knowledge of
mineralogy, so the practice had been allowed to
continue. “What!” ’Sonah cried, “this larceny
of ore common ? It must be stopped.” And in
passing sentence of two years, he explained that
counsel’s admission of the commonness of the
crime forced him to pass a sentence that would
deter others from following the practice in future.
The vagaries of Justice. A man with numerous
aliases steals 2ioz. gold in specimens from Bay-
ley’s United, where he works. Coolgardie P.M.
Fmnerty sentences him to six months, and evi-
dently thinks he is being very severe, for he re-
marks that this sort of thing must be put down.
Another, found guilty of “ unlawful possession ”
of a big quantity of specimen gold, at Boulder,
is fined £lO or two months. But at Broken Hill
two miners, pleading guilty to stealing a few
THE PRIVILEGE OF AGE.
“ Lor ’ luv me, ain’t I dirty?”
“ I’m sight dirtier en you.”
“O! well, so yer orter be —yer two years older
en me.”
pieces of silver ore, put in testimonials of the
most flattering kind, and Judge Gibson gives
them two years each. Which illustrates again the
difference between being dealt with by a lower and
a higher court.
It isn’t only the country J.P. who does extra-
ordinary things; the country P. M. is sometimes
full of capers, too. At Wentworth, in the last
week in March, according to a pretty full report
in the local paper, a man was charged with laying
poisoned baits. The P.M. heard the prosecution,
then announced that he didn’t want to hear the
defence—he couldn’t convict on the evidence.
But, according to this report, he added (though he
had not heard the defence, remember) that “he
had little doubt defendant did lay the poison;
when he could not get the dog from Dow he sought
other means to destroy it.” The accused, shut out
of the witness-box, has replied with a statutory
declaration categorically denying every charge
against him.
* * * *
To all intents and purposes, Circuit
Courts, established to give
N.S.W. country dis
tricts the benefit of
the services of Su-
preme Court
Judges, have
been abolished
in all but the
most accessible
centres. Thus,
it is years since
a Supreme
Court Judge
was at Broken
Hill ; either
a barrister is
sent up with
a commission
or a District
Court Judge
is told off to
take the sit-
ting. The
latter course
has just been
adopted
again,
though the
calendar was
one of the
heaviest ever
put before a
country ses-
sions court
in N.S.W.
Judge
Gibson,
acting
lately
as Su-
p r e m e
Court
Judge,
is un -
derstood
t o take
the late
J ustice
Windeyer (to
whom he was
once associate)
as a pattern.
Downto datehe
hasn t demand-
ed to see witnesses’ feet, but he has manifested other
of the older and bigger man’s idiosyncrasies—includ-
ing the worst of them, a passion for long and late
sittings. At Broken Hill he has been sitting day
after day from 9 in the morning till past 10 o’clock
at night, winding up, after a bout of this, with a
murder case. He began this case at 2 p.m. ; and
the jury, which had been in attendance all day
and all the previous days and nights, was sent
out to consider its verdict just as midnight was
sounding. The court adjourned at 1.30 a.m., and
the same morning the sittings were resumed at 9 !
With his strong physique the Judge may have been
fit; but what about the frailer mortals defending
the accused and the often frailer ones in attend-
ance as jurors ?
* * * a
Now that Moore Park tip is abolished its
place is supplied by a punt moored at the foot of
Market-street, Pyrmont. Hither hundreds of
carts bring their rubbish and tip it promiscuously.
And strange are some of the deposits ; dead and
decomposing pigs, dogs, rats and cats, mingling
with the refuse from boarding-houses and the
waste paper and rubbish from warehouses. All
Sundays this choice collection is allowed to swelter
in the sun and the public passing the bridge are
assailed with fearful smells. From Good Friday
to Monday also this stinking cargo remained along-
side the wharf; children rummaging through it
and picking out bits of cardboard or broken boxes,
while a strong wind swept the stench all over the
lower portion of Pyrmont. And—“every effort
is being made,” we are told, “ to stop the plague.”
* * * *
Sydney’s new system of cleaning-up is
already bearing fruit. Instead of being dropped
in Moore Park, now the things which the city
would rather leave unsaid are taken about 15
miles out to sea in barges, and there dropped on
to the bosom of Abraham —that is to say, Nep-
tune. And the more buoyant among them
promptly wash up at Watson’s Bay, where the
council clerk is now fully occupied picking them
off the rocks by the tail and slinging them in-
dignantly into fires built on the beach. As the
refuse isn’t dated no one knows exactly how long
it takes to get back home again. The two dogs
that were found on the shore the other day may
have been yesterday’s dogs or last week’s dogs
anyhow, they weren’t last year’s dogs, for the
system wasn’t in vogue then. There is something
solemn in the idea of this procession of
dead animals and sundries heading, ghost-like,
over the quiet green sea back to its old haunts,
washing steadily along in the silver moonlight,
heaving up and down on Britannia’s special ele-
ment, and at last climbing spectrally on its native
shore again, to be found there by a suburban
council clerk in the morning. Fifteen dead ani-
mals per diem is the average at Watson’s Bay
now, and the Bay, with its own garbage tip at its
back-door and Sydney’s dead-dog washing up on
its front step, is unreasoningly angry. The fact
that it is acquiring much valuable information
about the set of the tides and currents appeases it
not in the least. It doesn’t even think of in-
quiring up in Sydney if any one can remember
what day any special animal was dropped over-
board, to see how long they take to get back ; and
it isn’t making notes on the winds and tides to
ascertain what particular set of circumstances
washes up most dogs, and which set leaves fewest
cats and gin-cases. It hasn’t even tried to find
out whether, on the whole, dogs or cats make the
best time back, or whether old infected hats get
ahead of both of them with condemned corned-
beef a good second. It is simply angry, and busy
shovelling valuable information into the fire.
» * ♦ *
Neutral Bay was the original quarantine
station for N.S.W. Typhus fever and small-pox
with occasional cholera outbreaks were the epi-
demics of 100 years ago. The “Alligator” as
hospital ship was moored in the bay, and on the
ridge to the right the huts for “contacts” and
convalescents were scattered about. Increase of
settlement in the district drove the station to the
North Head of Port Jackson.
* * * *
Tas. Govt, has done nothing towards feed-
ing the starving in India, because all they could
spare has gone towards butchering Boers. Gov.
INSOLENT PLUTOCRACY.
MISTRESS (engaging cook): “And what about
wages; shall we say fifteen shillings?”
COOK: “ Fifteen shillings I What do you take me
for; is it a poor governess yer think yer
engaging?”
Gormanston is an old Indian soldier, but he’s laid
up at present with wounds received in the fishing-
field. The 85-year-old R.C. Archbishop Murphy
is also an ex-Indian, and has started* an Indian
Famine Fund. Dr. Murphy was a bishop in
India during the Mutiny, and one day his native
banker came to him and said he’d be obliged if the
bishop would wipe out a little overdraft. '“But
why?” said the latter. “We’ve had business-
relations for years, and I’ve kept all my engage-
ments. Why are you afraid of me now?” The
banker was reticent, but, upon pressure, he con-
fessed that he wanted the account squared “ be-
cause,” said he, “I don’t know how long you may
have your head on your shoulders.” The bishop
paid up, and, when the Mutiny broke out, he ap-
plied to Government for arms, which he stacked
ostentatiously on his verandah, causing the local
natives to think the place was garrisoned. The
trouble, however, never came that way.
* * »
Think for a moment ! Say that the Red-
fern (Sydney) railway smash, as prophesied by
Chief-Commissioner Eddy, Chief-Commissioner
Oliver, and now by locum-tennis Fehon, owing to
congestion of traffic, occurs to-morrow, on whom
shall public anger expend itself? What plea will
the assailed party advance ? Dibbs will blame


A larceny charge ran its peculiar length in
a Sydney court last week. A man accused of
stealing whisky from Toohey & Co., went for trial
to Quarter Sessions some time ago. In the course
of the trial a juror at lunch-hour went home for
his meal. Returning late, the Judge found ho
had left the precincts of the court and dissolved
the jury, remanding accused to a future court.
When next accused appeared and was tried the
jury disagreed. For the third time he came up
last week and was acquitted.
The rapid yirogress made by Acetylene
Gas during the past year in the colonies speaks
volumes for the future of the industry. The
Acetylene Gas Co. of Australia, Ltd., Sydney,
are prepared to give estimates for any kind of in-
door or outdoor lighting. The recent night-
cycling carnival was carried on by Acetylene
installed by this Co.*
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
“Banjo ” Patterson gives an amusing pic-
ture of a giraffe-like Queensland trooper stalking
up to the Lancer officers’ mess at Bloemfontein
with “Can any of you blokes give us change for a
quid?” The “blokes,” not having the needful
themselves, roguishly recommended Bushie to try
the Scots GreyS’ mess ; which he did—and was
thereafter seen to “retire in great disorder.
Even he couldn’t stand the august astonishment
of the Nulli Secundus swells at his temerity.
tiARDYfiR°TH£RS
Invites Inspection of their magnificent
Stock of
DIAMOND STARS . . .
PENDANTS, etc. . . .
£3O to £3OO.
Showrooms:
13 Hunter Street, SYDNEY
' . And at Brisbane.
rat
3.
m.
Kefreshing!
Invigorating!
& ADD A LITT
m
CONDY’S
Fluid
TO YOUR BATH.
Thr effect is magical.
Beware of Colonial Imitations
Insist on buying
“CONDY’B FLUID.”
The following name &address
should be at foot of label:
Condy & Mitchell, 65, Gosw ell Rd., London, Eng.
FOR
A THROBBING, SWOLLEN,
Painful condition of STOMACH, and
Aching Intestinal Catarrh,
Or. Gregory’s Cough mixture
Is an Excellent Sedative.
Instant Relief from One Dose. If not obtainable
locally, send Stamps 2/6.
55 Elgin Street, Carlton, Melbourne.
HATS. ITats.
Mountcastle & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for -
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Parkes, Reid Dibbs, and Lyne Reidbut the
public, with the mangled bodies in view, wd ££_
impatient ear to the recriminations of tonguey
politicians.
* * * *
In Sydney, a rat’s funeral procession
Warehouse near corner of Sussex and Liverpoo
streets. Rat caught and killed ; ,
authorities; inspector appears—then wlay -
orderly. Solemn and ominous looks exchanged.
Two men arrive with corporation tip-cart. Crew
of spectators, and rat finally borne away on tip-
cart. ~ * *
» • * *
“ Ex-Balmainite ” from Melbourne :
Dear Bulletin.— Melbourne people are talking lohily
about the filth of Sydney-and no wonder l—but the
writer, knowing both places well, isn t sure that t
anything to choose between them in this respect.
Moore Park horror cannot well be worse than ou
Melbourne tip, in the vicinity of which until quite recent y
dairymen’s cows were allowed to feed, with the al
certainty of having their milk polluted,
Melbourne can any day be seen six or eight Orinamen
smoking and spitting in the room-shop, in which t y
eat, sleep, and store their vegetables. We re not out
the wood ” yet, by a long way.
* * * *
Queer little daily-paper paragraph, written
no doubt by one of the strange fraternity who
jangle church-bells: —
The Rev. Willoughby Flower, on the 12th inst., per-
formed the ceremony of unveiling a marble taDiei;
celebrate the first 720 of Darling Point Minor by the
members of St. Mark’s Society’s change-ringers.
dfg
Dear Bulletin. —This is how the Sydney
house-to-house sanitary inspection is done in my
suburb, at all events. • Semi-somnolent person
knocks at door. “I’ve come to inspect the house
on behalf of the municipality.” “Very good;
walk in, please.” S.s.p. walks in, pauses hall-way r
down the passage, and gazing meditatively a
towards the kitchen, dreamily observes. You ve f
got a sink there, haven’t you?” “Yes. Ah. g
—and, without going near said sink, the s.s.p. t
walks out into the yard, surveys, in turn, with t
lack-lustre eye, the fowls, the family cat, the gar- $.
ments fluttering on the clothes-line. lhen,
without so much as a look at drams, bath-
room, or stable, he observes, in a lost-chord land of
way, “ It’s all porfec’ly satisfac’ry ! ” and fades
slowly away.
«. * * *
N.S.W. District-Court Judge Rogers dealt
with a neat little domestic legality at Grenfell
the other day. A man stood forward charged
with entering and attempting to steal from the
dwelling of P. Curry. The evidence went to show
that accused entered the kitchen and there
attempted to steal. That seems to have gone
without comment, but it was pointed out that the
kitchen was not joined to Mr. Curry’s house by a
covered way and it was contended that there-
fore it was not part of Mr. Curry’s dwelling.
Judge Rogers, who rather relishes neat distinc-
tions, promptly concurred with this view and
ordered prisoner’s discharge.
. « • *
Johann Andersen, a Russian Finn, sen-
tenced to 10 years for stabbing a British seaman
to death, in the sailors’ quarters at Port Adelaide,
was released, under mysterious circumstances,
after serving two years of the term. “Under-
stood that the request for a reconsideration of the
case emanated from a foreign source.” Mean-
while, Cecile Andersen, a Norwegian woman,
sentenced to a “lifer,” many years ago, for the
fatal shooting of her shabby ex-paramour, in the
back parlor of a Melbourne pub., is still eating
hominy at Government expense. Looks as though
a Russian consul in South Australia'carried more
guns of persuasion than a Norwegian consul m
Victoria. .
* * * *
The latest Sydney gamble is with the
-tickets of the new tram system. To take the
numbers on the end of tickets either as poker or
•cribbage hands, or added up for sum-total, is now
the caper with the ungodly. Thus: Ist ticket
19905, 2nd 1990 G, 3rd 19907, 4th 19908 sth 19909 ;
three nines would win at poker, while three tickets
would tie at cribbage. Some sm a rties are already
carrying old tickets such as 55550, 54655, 66696,
&c. However, it all helps the revenue and the
game is excusable in this season of war-drunk.
Female education is making great strides
in Victoria. Age “ Wanted ” :
T ADY HELP. Educated, musical, cheerful. 3s.
-1 J week.
Cheerful on 3s. a week !
Advt. from recent Melb. Age :
L'GjERK, elderly, city office ; wages 10s. Folio 24,
Age Office.
» « • «
There is an amusing side even to the
plague epidemic. About six months before it
broke out a big firm entered into a two-years con-
tract with Govt, to supply carbolic acid at 2s. a
gallon the customary price to wholesale customers
at the time being 2s. 6d. ; but, like the grocers
who supply sugar cheap in order to sell tea, they
doubtless reckoned on averaging things. Unfor-
tunately, the plague stepped m to interfere, and
Govt, wanted thousands of gallons where ordi-
narily it would have ordered oniy, and
while the price to private people rose 200 or .
tier cent, the firmhad still to refrain from executing
most of’its orders from this source because the
demands of the health authorities were exhausting
all stocks as they arrived. A magnate of the co
cernone recent morning entered the establish
ment in a breathless and broken-up condition. As
soon as he could be “ restored to his personal com-
"A SAVER”
HARMY LASS: “Oh! come and he saved; com one, come all!'
BOOZEY BILL: “ D'ye save women too—hie?”
HARMY LASS: “ Yes, brother; we save Women"
BOOZEY BILL: “Hie-well, save one for me will-hic—yer? I'll he back this way soon."
fort,” he answered the anxious queries of thoso
around him as to what was the matter and did he
feel any pain in the groin, by ejaculating : My
n-oodness ! what do you think V They have got
the blanky fire-engines at work pumping our car-
bolic down the blanky streets—at two bob a
gallon.”
* * * *
“ Melb.” : Yesterday I saw 16 Salvation
Army officers, uniformed, marching a la mili-
taire along the centre of Little Collms-st. Hiey
came from the railway. Each had Ins kit under
his arm wrapped m a War Cry. A bystander
asked “Are they all off to the pawnshop?
THEIR IDEAS ARE BIG.
YOUTH : “ She used to be such a nervous little thing.”
MIDDLEAGE : “ Your ‘ nervous little things ’ are never afraid
of the biggest men."
Three of them carried old theatrical swords, in
scabbards, having evidently been figuring wi
these in some holy tableaux up the bush,
is the Harmy coming to ?
* * * *
At a wedding-breakfast at the Burra
recently, 11 of the 13 who sat down were red-
headed.
* * * . ,
In re the notable frequency with which
plague has attacked employes of Sydney printing-
offices : the health authorities m every case trace
the contagion to goods from certain bonded-stores.
English PAit Mall Magazine for March
contains an “Australian story.” No real Aus-
tralian story is complete without either a bush fire
in Melbourne city.or a flood m Sydney harbor
This present yarn is a thrilling rescue from the
raging Murray, on a Queensland station.
At a South Coast (N.S.W.) pub., at which
the Judge on circuit was staying for a couple of
days, a man turned up in the bar early one morn-
ing and, producing a pair of handsome boots ex-
plained that he was “ dead-beat, ” and would the
landlord take the boots in exchange for keep and
sundry drinks. “Bung” took the canoes, and
gave the man a parting glass, but, later on* dis-
covered that the boots were His Honor s—picked
up from the bedroom door. An impression pre-
vails in the district that this amounted to sacrilege
or high treason, or something.
• * *
“ T.M.” : Talking of absent-
minded beggars: Was once on a
pleasure-trip round the world, and
one night, as our ship lay in
Naples harbor, several of us went
ashore and had a wild and woolly
time. Later on, when we ielt
shore on our return to the steamer,
I was very mixed and didn t re-
member much about it. But
directly my feet touched the lad-
der I knew where I was. I got on
deck, and felt pretty comfortable ;
not quite right, but knew what 1
was about. Presently there was
a commotion forward and some-
body yelled, “Man overboard!
I was wise enough to know that
I was not in a fit state to render
any assistance, and I said so most
distinctly for the benefit of all and
sundry. I stated that I couldn t
swim, and therefore I wasn’t going
over to rescue the capsized one,
whoever he was. Somebody
seemed to remonstrate with me
about my heartlessness, and 1
replied indignantly that when a
man made an inebriated beast of
himself and fell out of a ship he
couldn’t expect sympathy from the
well-conducted section of the com-
munity. I added that I was
going to bed, as exposure to the
night air was bad for my health.
Just then a boat-hook was stuck
in the back of my collar, and I
was hauled into a small boat.
The man overboard was Me.
» * *
The establishment of an
hospital for Jews in Sydney has
taken firm hold of the local Hebre w
mind and will no doubt soon begin
to materialise.
There are many strange deaths to choose
from in Australia. Quite lately a boy of 16 was
suffocated with dust on the mam road close to the
large town of Kalgoorlie. He fell out of his cart
and was stunned—not .injured m any way, but
merely had his wits scattered for a minute or so.
But he fell f ace-do wnwards, and ere his wits
could come back he was choked m the six-mch-
deep dust.
* * * *
The sooner the ordinary variety of Crown
Prosecutor opens his speech to the jury ™. 1
appear for the police, whose direct personal m-
terest it is to convict this prisoner,” the sooner
will he proclaim his true status. In the recent
Dunedin (M.L.) murder-case (already alluded to
in these columns) an old couple who had lived
happily all their lives were found by the police—
the Wife murdered, apparently, by a blow from a
tomahawk ; the husband bleeding and incoherent.
The latter’s tale was that a midnight intruder had
done the deed; but, on the theory of a drunken
quarrel, the husband was arrested and tried ; the
Crown-Prosecutor leading off dead against the
prisoner and finishing by calling the doctor who
examined the pair after the occurrence. This
witness described the prisoner’s injuries as
“trifling;” but the latter’s lawyer insisted on
the Crown-Prosecutor calling the gaol-surgeon
(subpoenaed by the Crown, but not called) who de-
posed that on prisoner’s arrival at the gaol lie had
stripped him and found him terribly bruised on
the body, evidently from a severe knocking-about.
Corroborative evidence of this —and acquittal of
prisoner. Police now looking for “a strange
dark man,” and public inquiring why the Crown
so strongly opposed the calling of the gaol-surgeon?
• • * •
Letter headed “ How Can Men Live 1 ”
from a Sydney daily paper:—
To the Editor. Sir, —I wish to ask, through your
columns, if it is possible for a man to keep.a wife and
family (six), pay rent, and rail fare, and keep out of debt
on a weekly wage of 20s. This, Sir, is the state of things
in the city of Sydney, and in one of the largest wholesale
Houses, too. It is almost incredible that any man could
have the conscience to ask his brother-man to work for a
wage such as that mentioned above. It is no wonder that
men heap to themselves wealth when it is done at the
expense of their employes, who have to take it or starve.
It is time, Sir, I think,' that something was done in Par-
liament to pass an Act, so that those who have to bear
the "burden of life and are expected to pay their share to
the State, will be able to do it with more ease. I feel
that I cannot do any more than open the subject for
someone else who is more able with the pen ; but as one
who is receiving that wage 1 feel that it is nothing but
right, in the interest of my brother-workmen, that it is
time something was done. Trusting you will pardon the
liberty I have taken, and thanking you in anticipation.—
Yours, &c., Sufferer. Sydney, April 19.
* * * *
A Sydney daily-paper item :
On Monday evening the police at No. 4 station, George-
Street N., received information that a man named George
Roberts, aged about 50, a ship’s steward, had (bed * lls |
lodgings, 5 George-street N. It appeared that deceased
had been in bad health for some time, and had not seen a
doctor. He was absolutely without means, and was sup-
posed to have had, for some time past, little or nothing to
eat. A few days ago he obtained some temporary work
of a light nature, and was supposed to have invested
what remained over and above his expenditure for
food and lodgings, in cod-liver oil. At 6 o’clock on Mon-
day evening Roberts called to a fellow-lodger, and asked
him to lift him up from the bed on which he was lying.
On his request being granted, Roberts said ‘ I am done.
and died. On the matter being reported to the coroner,
an inquest was dispensed with, but a post-mortem exami-
nation showed that death was due to consumption, accele-
rated by starvation. Roberts’ body was in a most emaci-
ated condition, his bones showing between them and tha
skin not a vestige of flesh.
FOR EVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
dfgd
CONSTANCE CLYDE.


[Forecast for ai> lodefiQite Period.]
Fron> MARK FOY’S OBSERVATORY,
OXFORD STREET.
BGsiocSs “Fioc apd Clear” geperally, tboGgb
“Stornjy” at curtail) tinjeS of tbe year.
Tbc preseot iQdicatioo points to diStOrbapce
“ ACittirpo Fashions.”
W. N. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
*||pSE|||
Si IN IttL
All Drapers Everywhere.
GKOB6 TEAS **• wo
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 25 7 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
„ Sydney, April 24, 1900.
My Dear Myee,—
Vice-regal engagements consist in journeys
between Moss V ale and Sydney. Govt. House is
still swathed in chintz, and Cavanagh, the hall-
porter, enjoys a quiet life, unmolested by Potts
Point. A little sensation went through society
last week at the news that His Excellency
accompanied by Capt. Harbord, was going
to stay with the Coolangatta Hays. The
pleasant Miss Hays appear a little dangerous to
society. Capt. Harbord, by the way, is a naval
man, with a fair beard, who came into fashion last
year in a society-beauty’s train. It has never been
given out that he is any relation to Lady Caring-
ton, but there is a rumor to that effect, substan-
tiated, I suppose, by the fact that Lady Mary
Lygon so often accepted him as her partner at last
season’s balls.
At the A. J.C. on Thursday the sun shone, the
wind was still, and the lawn was more festive and
racey than at either of the two previous days. In
the V.R. box, Lady Darley wore a purple bonnet
and a black frock alongside Mrs. Pilcher, in more
black and purple bonnet. Miss Darley was in
black with a lace yoke and light straw hat. Mias
Sylvia wore a pink silk shirt with white skirt A
well-known lady cut an elegant figure in flowing
black chiffon, with a black satin swathing round a
wasp waist, and a big black hat. This lady affects
the newest thing in veils. Hers rested on her
upper lip, exposing the chin and mouth. When
we get used to it we may like it; but at present it
strikes us as about the most unbecoming way of
arranging a face-cover ever invented. Few, indeed,
are the women who can stand a black line across
the face under the nose; and besides, the upper
and lower parts of the complexion !
People continue to stare excitedly at Lady
Francis Hope. Her dressing on Thursday was a
little daring—a grey-green frock covered all over
with silk fringe, a white square parasol, and white
shoes. As for the future Duke of Newcastle, he
strolled about in a week-day suit, with his large
head in a little pot hat.
Anawful rumor went round the lawn. “Nance
ONen is eating peanuts, and throwing the
shells at men ! ” Society was horribly shocked
for Society is quite at Nance’s feet, you know.
She doesnt pick it up, but n’ importe. Her
lovely frocks, her exclusiveness—that is to say, her
talents—have reduced Potts Point to frantic
admiration and invitation galore. I strolled round
to have a peep at the stately Nance behavin' s, in
this early Darwinian way, and discovered that the
tall woman in black, with her black hat tilted over
her eyes, and she typical ’Murkan figure, was not
Nance, but somebody else altogether. Also that
it was the lady’s husband who was eating the
peanuts. The lady herself was merely sitting
still, and looking nice, and wondering why people
stared so.
Race week exposed several little society changes.
In the absence of the top layer of cream, two or
three pretty women, who never had a chance
before, took things into their own hands. They
now lead victoriously, rushing up and down
the lawn, trailing, looking over the shoulder,
bowing with arctic sweetness, and keeping for ever
on the move and in evidence, just as the genuine
leaders used to do. In fact, it looks as if the old
queens will return to their kingdoms, by-and-bye,
to find themselves dethroned.
I am always hearing now of people who are
going to live in the Mountains for the winter.
Mrs. Willie Mitchell is trying to let her new
house at Darling Point in order that she may
breathe the brisker air of Katoomba. J. C
Williamson is another citizen who will, pat-
ronise the Mountain resorts; he has just bought a
h ,° l use Wentworth Falls. But it will be prob-
ably. Mrs. Williamson and the golden-haired
Marjorie who will spend most of their time there.
Marjorie, by the way, is the pet of the Sydney
theatrical world. Her wealth of youthful jewellery
is made up of a bangle, from Maud Jeffries, a
locket from Mrs. Brown-Potter, and a brooch from
everybody you can think of. All the chorus-
girls and stage children are at her feet,
but her childish, affections remain childish, in
spite of all the spoiling. Marjorie, leaning out
or a box at her father’s theatre at a" Wednesday
matinee, is quite a feature. Apropos, this little
story is true of her. At church the other day the
parson announced special service on Wednesday
afternoon. _ “/can’t come on Wednesday,” cried
out Marjorie quickly.
A second visit to “Camille” showed several
changes. Edith Berry, for instance, has given
U P wearing a red wig. She donned it first
night so that she would not be recognised
™ dual characters. But friends remon-
strated against carroty hair round that thin
race, and Edith shed her wig promptly.
Also, Emily Hughes has a new dress. At first
she wore one frock all through the play; which
was scarcely fair to an actress so clever and kind
to her clothes. The new frock is worn in the ball-
room scene a peach-colored brocade, with two
deep flounces of lace on the skirt, and deep peach
flowers on the bodice. Miss Ricca Allen, the
American actress, who came over with Nance
U Neil, shows herself again, as in Mrs. Triplet, an
artist at wearing a cap over hair dressed round
the ears.
As for Nance, she is a wonderful study in atti-
tudes. Here are two favorite poses, both startling,
original, life-like, but opposed to all stage pro-
prieties. No. 1 sees her kneeling on the sofa,
talking to Armand. One foot is stuck out, and
taps on the ground behind her; her back is turned
to the house. I cannot tell how long she keeps
that up. It seems a very long time ; for much as
I admire and am fascinated by her personality,
her back is decidedly, emphatically, too aggres-
sive, too large too important to be so continually
turned on. Her second pose is the tailor’s squat.
One plumps down on the floor suddenly with her
legs doubled under her. Very artful is her
management of her big five-feet-ten in this trying
position. She sinks into it. The house holds its
breath. -But she steals up out of it, never tripping
over her sweeping muslin flounces, but getting on
her feet with a facility that suggests years of prac-
tice at that primeval pose.
. latest feature of the Sydney plague-scare
is the elusive suspect. Two of them turned up in
one day. A local doctor was called in to see a
patient, whom he promptly adjudged guilty of
plague, and reported. When somebody arrived
from the health office the patient had vanished,
and the police failed to find him. Another man
reported himself at one of the hospitals, was
suspected, told to wait. He thought better of it,
and left, saying that if they wanted him he would
be at a certain address. He was wanted, and was
finally found late at night at another address. He
died next morning before he could be removed,
thus gaining his end, which was clearly to escape
quarantine.
All sentimental nonsense, perhaps; but senti-
ment is just the lever that moves the world, and
it is neglect of that great truth that causes so
many administrative failures. It’s bad enough to
bump up against a physical law; but you may
survive it. An enduring popular sentiment, if
you run counter to it, will sooner or later fall on
you and crush you. Already it is openly said
that medical men in private practice are taking
advantage of the ambiguity of the symptoms to
treat plague patients at home. Many of them
even deny that it is plague, and are supported by
a large section of public opinion. Compulsory
removal to quarantine has aroused all the angry
passions of patients’ families, while the burial in
numbered graves has put the finishing touch to
the exasperation.
By the way, as the plague-scare is inducing
people to be more careful with their food, I feel
bound to recommend you to drink Atcherley and
Dawson’s G-lobe tea, a very special form of this
unmebriating beverage, I assure you.
I read, the other day, in Sir Evelyn Wood’s
book on the Crimea how, in that awful winter of
54 and ’55 before Sebastopol, there was nearly
being a mutiny in the British camp because the
authorities proposed, instead of burying the dead
in. their blankets, to diminish the sufferings of
the living by distributing those blankets among
them. The men who bore cold, hunger and toil
without a murmur were roused to fury by a fancied
insult to their dead comrades. It would be worth
something to the average politician or official to
learn tfm truth that men’s minds count for more
than their bodies.
Quarantine, is the latest honeymoon resort. A
country couple just married were carried there
last week among a, houseful of contacts. What a
situation for a writer with a French mind; the
young husband, the young wife, death hanging
over them by a single hair, as it were. Every day
the wonder as to who will be the next victim.
Will one be taken, and the other left ? But, so
far, nothing sensational has happened.
A society wedding last week was that of Miss
Alice M‘George and Mr. Wickham, from Welling-
ton. Bride and bridegroom have prepared to
spend part of their honeymoon in Quarantine at
Maoriland. They were married at Rand wick last
Wednesday. Miss M‘George has enjoyed for a
long time the reputation of being the best dancer
in Sydney. A particularly snappy dress was worn
by her one bridesmaid, Miss Finney, from Bris-
bane. It was a white chiffon frock with little
frills to the knees. Over this was a whole over-
dress of muslin-de-soie, patterned in huge nastur-
tiums, cut off the shoulders as if it were a low
bodice, and filled in with a transparent gympe
and sleeves of tucked chiffon. Worn with this
was a cream hat trimmed with nasturtium and
tomato mixed most fetchingly.
A wedding that comes off to-day is that of
pretty Miss Ethel Inglis, only daughter of Mrs.
Inglis, of “Menar,” with Mr. Thompson, of the
Warrimoo. Miss Inglis, like the other bride of
to-day. Miss Jessie Middleton, is going to settle
down in England.
A gilt-edged marriage eventuated in Adelaide
last week when H. A. Parsons espoused the
daughter of editor Bonython, of the Advertiser.
Young Parsons lately benefitted to the tune of
over £60,000 by the death of a wealthy aunt allied
to the Angas millions, and there are “tons more”
coming. Bonython pkre is reputedly a quarter-
millionaire ; his paper is supposed to turn him in
£15,000 a year. Parsons is a son of the scholarly
erstwhile N.T. Govt. Resident, and has political
aspirations.
By the way, Mark Hambourg isn’t coming out
here yet. He is said to be frightened of
Plague. There are reasons why some artists need
fear this dirt-disease, but Mark—the adored, fas-
cinating, nonchalant Mark—is it possible that he,
too, is a bit of a Svengali ?
Which reminds me that Sydney University has
no “Commem.” this year. No! The Senate
sat, and pondered. No reason was given aloud.
Then Commem. was mysteriously and suddenly
abolished for the present. I suppose there cannot
be any connection between this action and the
fact —it is a fact, is it not ?—that so many Univer-
sity women look as if they didn’t wash their faces ?
In these Jingo days the household flags may be
seen out at tne weekly wash along with little
Jimmy’s suit and pa’s six boiled shirts, but they
were all out again nicely ironed and laundried last
Monday, when the 750 nut-brown boys of the bull-
dog breed rode along George-street en route to
Africa. The scene presented little difference from
any of the preceding departures, save that there
was less crowd, less music, less enthusiasm—the
daily papers admit this—and more bushmen.
Bottles were as much in evidence as formerly,
and flower-garlands enwreathed many a manly
collar-bone. One Tommy carried an india-rubber
doll, possibly as a memento of one of the little
things he had left behind him. Another Achillas
with a heap of handkerchiefs on his saddle’
looked as if he were taking home the washing’.
Ihe girls did not hang on to the horses’ tails as
much as formerly, because they so often had to
ask these sagacious animals to take their feet off
their toes. One warrior kept the crowd at a dis-
tance by yelling out now and then—“ Tyke eyre
o my orse; ’e bites ! ” whereat the faithful com-
panion of man faced suddenly round and tried to
chew the contingent generally.
Sydney was in a state of barrier on Monday •
but whether it was an infected-area barrier or Im-
perial Contingent barrier was hard to ascertain
till one got inside. Then the envious looks of the
crowd were reassuring. Along Macquarie-street’s
lashionable boarding-houses, the leg; of Sydney’s
-Noblest adorned the various buildings, re-
minding one of a threepenny “hang-over”
at the Tivoli. At one corner a stout man
waved his arms and yelled—“ Mealies! me
boys; bring back mealies, mealies! ” Fur-
ther on a man of blood, who had loyally
colored his nose the sacred hue with which Africa
is to be painted, waved his hands frantically in
the atmosphere—“ Kill ’em all, boys, kill ’em all.
Kill the women, too ! Don’t— hic— forget the
women ! But now the end of the procession
was at hand, and the warriors began to ask each
other if their wreaths were on straight.
The proletariat took their seats on the hill
above Woolloomooloo and looked complacently
down at an all but invisible scene. They had been
jammed for an hour or so in a crowd that stood on
their shoes They had had to hold their top
1 one hand and guard Jimmy from
the biting ’orse with the other, and keep on their
hat by biting at it. They had run the gauntlet of
•hatpins and plague-germs, and men who carry
their sticks horizontally. Now they augmented
their thirst with bananas while gazing all the
afternoon at something they didn’t see. And yet
people say we are a pleasure-loving race !
At the embarkation: A glimpse of big iron
rails, some dishevelled creatures gazing through,
and a squad of policemen standing outside’.
Boor things! wot ’ave they done?” from the
crowd ; but it was only some of Sydney’s Noblest
who had succeeded in getting inside the enclosure.
Ihe soldiers were now being harangued as a final
test of their fitness to face hardships. What
tired, sleepy faces the majority had ! One fellow
looked martial in an array of medals, but, as he
modestly expianmd to the crowd that had cheered
flu r ey ain ’f mine - They’re father’s medals
tor the fattest sheep, and he gave ’em to me to
make a bit of a show with.” Then the cameras
started on their deadly work, and this scribe de-
parted.
The city was deserted, inhabited by nothing but
the swarm of microbes roused to activity by the
late shivoo. Then up a quiet side-street came a
lonely hansom, with a portly occupant, and we
realised that George Dibbs was having a little
procession all by himself.
,^2, r £. et Miss Alice Hollander’s concert at
the Y.M.C.A. Hall, Thursday, April 26.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“The snappiest wedding for a long time past
was that of Miss Queenie Calvert (the Chirnsides’
niece) and Mr. Gordon Lyon, oelebrated at Colac
Saturday, April 21st. All the old Vic. hunting
families were to the fore. Aide Riohard Nevill
was best man. The presents, counted by hundreds,
included hunters (one froip the Brasseys), a pony
a gun, diamonds, and cheques galore. *
“Prominent in the present-show was a diamond
crescent, Mr. Cox’s gift to his liege-lady, who
responded with a hunter. Mr. and Mrs. Colles
the bride’s uncle and aunt, gave their niece an
impressive pearl pendant, and bestowed the most
desirable saddle and bridle extant on her new
proprietor. The travelling gown of beaver cloth,
with fixings of cream-point and black, was en-
livened by a dash of Mandarin panne. Janet
£ lark ?> Tiord Richard Nevill, Lady and
Miss Manning, etc., shed their smiles on the
heiress s wedding.
.“The leading lady’s white satin had train and
trimmings of tucked silk-muslin; sleeves and fix-
ings of real Honiton. The six maids in Gainsboro’
hats and white satin gowns, with plain skirts, wore
soft fichus and each had a breast-knot of a single
pink rose tied with sky-blue. They held their
posies of pink fairy-roses in quaint holders of
ivory-satin, with Honiton flounces and blue
streamers. The bride started on her travels in
dark-purple face-cloth, with intervals of apricot-
and-black spotted panne, real lace cravat, and
Pans hat.
. “At the Cox-Stanbridge wedding, the bride was
raithful to orthodox white satin, orange-blossom
and myrtle, with flimsy flounces, &c., feather-
stitched with white silk, and her Court-train hung
from the shoulder. The four maids, who affected
bla £ k velvet hats and scarlet-streamered black
staffs, had silk-embroidered transparent interludes
in their white frocks. At the breakfast, all the
tables sported the bridegroom’s colors, red and
blue, except the bride’s table, which kept to white
flowers and Autumn leaves.
Pretty Mrs. Crotty’s matrimonial luck seems
to be clean-out.’ The Orient-liner captain to
whom she was engaged has had a severe stroke of
paralysis, and Mrs. Crotty has gone to S’Africa
nursing.
“As each contingent leaves these shores it trails
behind it a string of engagements. ‘ Strange they
are not reported till after the boat leaves,’ snorted
an angry damsel, to whom a good-looking bushman
had been making love on and off for years ; lie was
now claimed by another girl with the ineffable
simper and self-consciousness of the newly-engaged.
“After all, one can’t blame girls for making a
very little love-affair go a very long way. Men
are so scarce and so scared nowadays, and in the
usual ‘ strictly in confidence’ one must have some-
thing to go upon. However, an adroit Brighton
girl tied her admiring bushie with the marital
knot, and if he returns he must claim her whether
he likes it or not.
“ Some of the officers of the Australian Imperial
Regiment are presenting patches of khaki cloth
with military button attached to their girl-chums.
One has converted her patriotic patch into a
sachet which she sports at her side as a kind of
depository for button-hooks, tram-tickets, and
stray tags of enthusiasm. All brag ftf the khaki
patch as if it were a relic of an early-century
’scutcheon, or a chip of the True Cross. Colonel
Kelly, the best set-up officer in Melbourne, and a
bachelor to boot, is above patches ; autographed
photos, are more in his line. Melbourne girls
think thqy are excused for raving over the good-
looking Irishman, on the strength of his grey
hair. But under grey bushy eyebrows, twinkling
eyes look out with all the wag’s drollery at those
who would measure a man by the color of his
hair. Grey, he tells the gurrls, was given him to
match, his complexion.
“The Melb. girls are forming a rifle club, and
the uniform—which, of course, is the important
thing—-is to be khaki skirt and blouse, Lancer
hat cocks’ plumes, gauntlet gloves and
gaiters. There is no particular reason why women
should learn to shoot, beyond the facts that the
sex is imitative, and the men are busy forming
rifle-clubs. For a woman to be a craek rifle-shot is
surely as unnecessary as for a man to be an expert
in Mountmellick embroidery. Also, if women
would learn to do any one thing well, they would
benefit everybody. For instance, at the popular
sewing-bees, held to make garments for the re-
fugees and soldiers at the Cape, you will find,
perhaps, one woman in twenty who really knows
how to make garments. The quantity of ill-made
shirts, absurd petticoats, terrible dresses and bon-
nets should shame every woman in Melb. Why
can’t they buy patterns ; why don’t they learn to
sew and cut out ? Said one girl innocently:
‘ What is the size of a soldier’s neck ? This py-
jama coat is 26 inches. Do you think that is all
right ? ’ Said another : ‘ This petticoat is 60
inches—is that too long ? ’
“Collins-street now boasts a photographer
whose rooms are crowded all day long by every
beauty and society ornament desiring a dozen copies
of her features fora shilling. The inch-square repre-
sentations are by no means flattering, but they are
amusing, and the photographer is a bland, cheer-
ful creature with a wonderful aptitude for compli-
ments ; in this he could give a lesson to others of
his craft. At a certain shop in the same street
the fair sex subjected itself to all manner of
discourtesies—some of which were indeed unique.
One customer desired a profile picture. ‘ Profile ! ’
exclaimed the god of the camera, ‘ Profile with
that nose ! ’ Another desired to wear evening-
dress. ‘ I can hide bones by retouching, but fat’s
hopeless.’ Another wished for ‘ a pretty picture, ’
and received a contemptuous smile. ‘The camera
is not omnipotent, madam.’ And for all that he
had a large business.
“The practical owner of the Palace Hotel, the
Bijou Theatre, and the Victorian Arcade, Mel-
bourne, saw them for the first time the other day.
About the end of the ’3o’s, a young barrister
named Brewster was sent Iw the Sydney Govt, to
Melbourne as chairman of Quarter Sessions. He
bought land largely and cheaply, right on the site
of the coming city, and in time gave up the Law
and was elected member for Melbourne in the Syd-
ney Parliament. In the ’so’s he went to England
and took Anglican orders, but did not marry till
he was 74 years old. Meanwhile, gold had been
discovered in Victoria, and Brewster’s Melbourne
land had become worth pounds per inch. But he
never went back. In 1875 he let on building-lease
the land on which the Victorian Arcade, with
its Academy of Music, and the big Palace Hotel
were built by the late Joseph Aarons and his
successors. The old gentleman died at Capetown
a couple of years ago. The lease of the Bourke-
street and Little Collins-street land falls in five
years hence, and then the whole block—Bijou
Theatre, hotel, and all—will belong to Mrs.
Brewster (still a youngish woman), who, as has
been said, saw her property last week for the first
time.
“ Melbourne is to lose Mdlle. Dreyfus for a long
period. It may be for years and it may be for
ever. The ostensible reason of the French
teacher’s departure is to enjoy a sea-trip and a
change of air. But Mdlle. tells people in her
pretty confidential way that if she finds a good
opening and a sphere of usefulness in the gay
city she will abide there, for no Frenchwoman
willingly leaves Paris. 4 Things have changed—
comprenez vous ? since I left home. I cannot tell
eggsactly how I shall proceed,’ she explains with
a pretty Bernhardesque play of teeth and cheek
moles looking like chocolate patches. Mdlle
Dreyfus has taught all our ‘ best’ people French,
as-she-is-spoke. For several years past her hour-
glass figure, always garbed tastefully, has been
received with enthusiasm at the haunts of the
Upper Two Hundred.
“ IN °w that a well-known journalist is back in
Melbourne a few stone lighter for his war experi-
ence, one wonders (now that his position is prosaic
and pleasant again) how he relishes his own thril-
ling siege letters, which arrived before him, and
are published daily. Each epistle is more de-
pressed and downhearted than its predecessor,
and as the relief chapter is still pages ahead,
readers anticipate that, before then, the writer
wifi have unveiled a frame of mind likely to make
Job’s reflections seem frivolous by comparison.
A ours affectionately,
GOULL-GOULL


ROWLANDS
KALYDOR
Fox* the Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a»nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLANDS
ESSEKCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
black which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland's articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
JUST A MINUTE, PLEASE !
Tired men, whether suffering from mental or
physical fatigue, delicate women, growing girls
and little children find Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa a
unique beverage of inestimable benefit. The
nauseous drugs and disagreeable medicines associ-
ated with ill-health are, in Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa,
replaced by something which is pleasant and nice,
with a distinctive flavoring of its own which will
appeal to the fastidious and over-nice palate of the
invalid, and its soothing effect renders it an ideal
“ Pick-me-up.”
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, by taking the place of
stimulants of an ardent nature, has made happy
many a home which otherwise to-day would have
been wretched, and the ultimate effects of which
it is impossible to foresee. For breakfast, dinner,
supper—-indeed, at any hour of the twenty-four—
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa will be found light and
refreshing ; it leads the way among all beverages,
and nothing can equal it.
The unique vitalising and restorative powers of
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa are being recognised to an
extent hitherto unknown in the history of any
preparation. Merit, and merit alone, is what is
claimed for Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa, and the pro-
proprietors are prepared to send to any reader
who names Tup Bulletin (a postcard will do) a
dainty sample tin of Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa free
and post paid.
Dr. Tibbies’ Vi-Cocoa can be obtained from all
chemists, grocers and stores, or from Dr. Tibbies’
Vi-Cocoa, Limited, 269 George-street, Sydney.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOB ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
Dr. M. MACKENZIES
THROAT LOZENGES
Are being Imitated.
Be sure that the address on the Label
is Leadenhai.l-st., London.
Sole Arjent for
Australasia:
C. E. Newman
Kino-St., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Colonel Mackay, the much-feted, plain-
tively remarks that of the people who have ten-
dered him valedictory handshakes, one-half called
him Makky and the other half McKye.
Lieut. Oxley, who goes to S. Africa, is
grandson of the Lieut. Oxley, surveyor and
explorer, who named so many places in ancient
N.S.W. and Queensland. Grandfather Oxley be-
came M.L.C., and father Oxley, M.L.A.
The Soanes of Dubbo (N.S.W.) have four
boys serving in- South Africa. They are great-
grandsons of Col. Gibbs, who was Collector of
Customs (N.S.W.) in the early forties, their
grandfather, Dulhunty, being one of the pioneers
of the Dubbo country.
A writer to the Adelaide dailies asserts
that the of-the-period “ kissing-patch ” upon the
cheek of Frank Dicksee’s Lady Teazle (bought
for the Adelaide Art Gallery) “has been sand-
papered out by instructions of the gallery authori-
ties.” He suggests that they, perhaps, mistook it
for a fly-spot. Ye gods !
ArtistPiguenit, thehonest, careful, poetic,
“old-fashioned ” painter, at whom it is the fashion
of the local impressionists to sneer, has again gone
to England, where his work is in demand at high
prices. A leading London firm is photogravuring
two landscapes painted by him in England.
Piguenit could always sell in Australia and Tas-
mania (his native country) at substantial figures
all the pictures he could paint,, and his prices are
still rising.
The late Judge Windoyer once said that
lie knew a witness was telling lies because he
shuffled his feet. Maybe the Judge had been
studying Scripture. The philosopher who is res-
ponsible for the wisdom of
tlie Book of Proverbs puts
it this way (Prov. chap,
vi. 12, 13): “A naughty
person, a wicked man,
walketh with afroward
mouth. He winketh
with his eyes, he
speaketh with his feet,
he teaoheth with his
fingers.”
THE RULING PASSION.
WILD-EYED SCOT : “Gie ma twa penn'orth o’
rough-on-rats. A’m owre tired o’ life.”
THE CHEMIST : “ We can’t make twopenn orth, sir.
We only sell it in sixpenny packets.”
SCOT (comtemplating his sixpence): “Then A’l
no commeet suicide.”
Editor Bonython, of the Adelaide Adver-
tiser, who is slowly recovering from a severe
illness, sails for England by P. and O. s.s.
Australia. During the 35 years he has been con-
nected with the paper of which he is now sole
owner he has never previously taken a decent
holiday, but fate and the doctors have forced his
hand on this occasion. Mr. Bonython has Federal
ambitions r and will be back in time to run for the
Senate at'the first Commonwealth elections.
Bishop Montgomery, leaving Tasmania for
England at an early date, is debited with a longing
for the fleshpots of an English Deanery. Fairly
modest; less able men set their hats at sees with
£5OOO a year, and when disappointed c&me back
praying. Dr. Montgomery pleads that Tasmania
disagrees with his wife, and therefore, etc., etc.
Mother Eve again. Mrs. Montgomery is a daughter
of the eminent and sensationally-iiterary Dean
Farrar, of London.
Dear Bulletin. —You let somebody say
that the Beau Standish, met by Disraeli at
Malta, was father of Capt. Standish, one-time
Victoria’s Chief Commissioner of Police. It may
be, but, all the same, the captain’s surname was
assumed. Of course, the other fellow was, possibly
enough, his father all the same.— Cop.
The death in England of Lady Louisa
Tighe, at 97, recalls the tragic death of her sister,
Lady Mary Fitzroy, in Parramatta over 50 years
ago. Gov. Fitzroy, generally in an over-dined con-
dition, would insist on driving, and ran his wife
and Private Secretary against a tree. To do him
justice, he maintained a limp, moist state of
features for over a month afterwards.
The vigor and healthiness of Queen
Victoria in her old age is lucidly explained by
Melb. Argus. Her Majesty is
Only another instance of the healthfulness and longevity
of brain workers, for Her Majesty does a good deal of
brain work in the 24 hours, and keeps it up all the year
round.
Why does anybody ever die ?
“Banjo” Patterson stands a chance of
being known in future as “The man fromModder
River.” He still appears to regard the war as a
kind of amateur steeplechase, and the racing
adventures of both Boer and Briton occupy a large
space in his letters. He is evidently very proud
of having been the first Britisher to enter Bloem-
fontein, but of course there was a horse at the
bottom of it: “Banjo’s” moke'was a Myles-na-
Coppaleen colt with more foot than the mounts
of his competitors.
That most popular pressman, Argus war-
correspondent, Donald Macdonald, returns thin,
shrunken, and with a weak stoop; but otherwise
well enough. The sea voyage revived him, but
the doctors in Capetown told him it would be
simply suicide to stay there. He doesn’t bring
back any confirmation of the tales of atrocity by
the Boers; in fact, he declares that the British
Tommy was quite as bad as the Boer in regard
to occasional offences against the accepted usages
of modern warfare.
Thompson Moore, the Melbourne mining
manager and politician, tells a story of the days
when he was storekeeping at Maldon in the Fifties
with an American named Tays. One day a cer-
tain Jimmy Wilson, an old “lag ” from Tas-
mania, dropped in and asked him to keep
a bag of gold safe for him, as he was on the
spree. Moore put it away safe, and next day
Wilson called and told him one of his drays
had broken down in the Black Forest, between
Gisborne and Woodend, and he wanted a loan of
£35 to make a deposit on another horse and con-
veyance. Moore, knowing he had the security
of the gold, advanced the money. Just
when Wilson left, however, it occurred
to Moore to look into the bag, and
there lie found only bits of lead.
He ran up the street, found Wil-
son in a store buying boots,
and throttled him. The lag
drew his pistol, but the shop-
man secured and discharged it,
and with the help of a policeman
Moore recovered his £35. That night when Moore
was lying awake in bed he had a thought,
and at daybreak he got up and walked 25
miles to Bendigo, where his ’Murkan
partner had charge of a branch. “Any
strangers here lately?” asked Moore.
“Only Jimmy Wilson,” said Tays. “Did
you give him anything?” “A shake-
down. ” * * Anything else ? ” “I lent him
£35,” said Tays. “You’re ‘had,’” said
Moore. “No fear,” returned Tays, with a
wink, “ I’ve got his gold.” “ Let’s see it,” said
Moore. “Here it is,” and Moore, on examining
the bag, found it contained lead, like the bag on
which he himself had lent £35 at Maldon the
day before. From that day to now Thomp-
son Moore has never seen or heard of Tas-
manian Jimmy or the £35 lent him by partner
Tays.
Including Col. Mackay, M.L.C. of N.S.
Wales, Australia will soon have three legislators
at the front in South Africa. Connolly, M.P. for
Dundas, went with the second W.A. contingent,
and Roberts, M.P. for Gladstone, goes with the
S.A. Imperial bushmen. Roberts, during the
two or three weeks he has been in camp, has been
promoted from trooper to lieutenant, so that he
ought soon to be a field-marshal. He has long
been known locally as “Bobs,” which may have
something to do with his preferment.
Baden Powell will, if he consents to
take the warlike gifts got up for him in Sydney by
Sunday press subscriptions, require to obtain leave
before he does so. The Duke of Wellington
declined in such circumstances; Napier also.
Marshal McMahon accepted a sword, but it was
after defeat. Rochefort accepted a sword from
Sydney admirers, but it was also after defeat and
while a fugitive ; and Cronje, for whom Rochefort
is now “ raising ” a sword, also occupies the posi-
tion of defeated warrior.
R. C. Patterson, one of the new members
of Assembly for Hobart, is a native of Victoria,
and was a schoolfellow of Judge Molesworth,
Carbine Wallace, and Col. Tom Price. He is a
civil engineer and contractor, and has built rail-
ways in various provinces—including the Sorell
(Tas.) line. He had command of the telegraph
party which, in 1871-2, made the line from Adelaide
to Port Darwin, from the Port end, and it was he
who fixed the last bit of wire connecting Australia
with the rest of the world.
WHAT HE BLEW.
M EDICUS: “I see you are a bandsman. Well, in
my opinion, your constitution has become im-
paired through the excessive strain of blowing.
What instrument do you play? ”
BANDSMAN: "The big drum!”
The luck of pretty Mrs. Fraser with a Melb.
jury recalls the equally good fortune of Madeline
Smith (tried in ’56 for poisoning her lover) with
a Scotch judge and jury. The evidence for
the prosecution was clear, and the verdict “ not
proven.” The judge was well known to be
peculiarly susceptible to feminine charms. Just
before the summing-up, prisoner’s counsel, Inglis,
said to her : “ You have a pretty foot and ankle,
Miss Smith ;be careful to show them.” Several
inches of well-filled stocking were protruded, the
handsome girl assumed her most fetching expres-
sion, and the hypnotised judge charged dead in her
favor. It must also be remembered that the vic-
tim was a foreigner who had behaved meanly.
Among the rumors as to what happened to the
fair Madeline after her acquittal, none were so
persistent as the one that she married a medical
man who resided in a Melb. suburb
until a few years ago.
The death of Lieut.-Col. Phil-
lips, Commissioner of Westralian
Police, removes one of the very last
vestiges of old-time convict regula-
tions. Born in Westralia, reared
and educated in it, Phillips declined
to believe there was a superior spot
on earth, or better Government in
creation. He was the protege of
Gov. Weld, and pampered Broome.
Thriving under such conditions, he
was taken by surprise when the gold-
fields broke out. The “ Tothersider ”
invasion was too much for him. He
persisted in the old local custom of
a policeman after 7 p.m. challenging
belated citizens with the call “Bond
or Free?” To this day, the watch-
house book containing the entries of
drunks, &c., has a column with the
heading “B. or. F.” The Colonel
refused to march with civilization
until absolutely pushed along. On
high days and holidays he used to
swagger about with sword and sabre-
tache, in a glittersome uniform, re-
sembling that of some of the Imperial
Hussar Regiments. The new Wes-
tralian Commissioner of Police,
Warden Hare, of Kalgoorlie, is the
man who, when John Forrest in-
sulted the Kalgoorlie people and got
hustled, read the Riot Act, and called
upon 50 constables to charge over
10,000 people. Fortunately, Sub-In-
spector Holmes declined to carry out
the order, and thus serious riot was
averted. For his “loyalty” to
Forrest, Hare now gets his reward.
Ex-District Court Judge Dowling, of
Woollahra (N.S.W.), now in his 81st year, was
Attorney-General of the Port Curtis district in
1849. He spent nearly ten years there, and wit-
nessed most of the exciting scenes of early gold-
fields discoveries. It was mere chance which
caused his return to Sydney, as, had he stayed,
the highest judicial position was open to him in
the new province of Queensland.
'Majah Reay, the Melb. ’Erald correspon-
dent in South Africa, has evidently not been
impressed by the ornamental section of British
officerdom in South Africa. More than once Reay
has hinted that he found more swaggah than
seemed necessary, and in a recent letter he says
“It would be a blessing if some of the many
scantily-employed, high-titled officers at present
in this country were required to see that troops at
the front got their letters within reasonable time.”
Ye gods ! Would he convert the unemployed
Algernon Gussies into dem’d postmasters ?
Like Colonel Phillips, his predecessor, the
new Commissioner of Police in Westralia, ex-
Warden Hare, graduated at Govt. House. Phil-
lips was Private Sec. to Gov. Hampton ; Hare to
Gov. Broome. But whereas the elder man had no
police experience, the younger was for some time
in the force as inspector : and his experience as
P.M., Govt. Resident, and Warden ought to help
him. The late Commissioner was the new one’s
brother-in-law —but, then, being both good
’Gropers it was difficult to escape some relation-
ship.
Australian Star (Sydney), in its issue of
4th April, reprinted Victor Daley’s verses “ His
Conqueror” which originally appeared in The
Bulletin of 13th Jan. this year. But it carefully
abstained from acknowledging this paper as the
source of its steal, and credited the verses to the
Times of Natal (South Africa). This paper is
quite accustomed to be stolen from, sometimes
with acknowledgment and oftener without, but
when the matter that it has paid for is stolen
(by a paper printed in Sydney) and credited to
other papers it is time to say things.
John Meagher, of Bathurst, is tipped as a
certainty for one of the new N.S.W. Upper House
appointments. Meagher was a Dibbs’ nominee in
’94, when Gov. Duff’s obstinacy put a stop to the
appointments. Apropos —during a recent visit to
Dublin “John” was taken round by an Irish
guide to see the sights, and visited a certain church
which had been restored at great expense by the
late Guinness, of stout-brewing fame. Looking
up at a statue which had been erected to the de-
parted Bung, “John’’asked the guide, “I sup-
pose Mr. Guinness was a very popular man, eh ? ”
The guide looked mysteriously round, and then
whispered confidentially, “Shure, sor, it’s glad
he’d be, where he is now, to have a dhropof hisown
porther ! ”
Dr. Hall-Owen, who has just been taken
off by enteric fever at Chieveley Hospital, Natal,
was an amusing identity in South Melbourne. In
orating he was afflicted with the er—er —ah
malady to which Gov. Brassey was so pronounced
a victim. The doctor had a knack of turning up
to South Melb. Council meetings when the pro-
ceedings were half over, sometimes attired in a
blazing uniform or in evening-dress. During his
term of office as Mayor he made things hum
socially. When he announced his departure to
the front as a surgeon to the British forces, he
said he intended, after seeing the campaign
through, to proceed to England to complete his
studies of military surgery. But, unfortunately,
he found that in Africa a through ticket to the
Great Beyond can be easily obtained without ven-
turing into the firing-line. In addition to his many
other offices, the late surgeon-captain was a J.P.,
but seldom sat on the Bench. Yet the ostentatious
exercise of his office of honorary beak once got
him into a hot comer at the police station. One
Sunday afternoon, a grass widow of good position
was brought to the lock-up in a state of d.t’s.
The void made by hubby’s absence she had en-
deavored to fill by tanglefoot, with disastrous
results—-her delusion being that she was the centre
of attraction of a number of telephones, which
had all been mixed up, and were jarring her
brain most agonisingly. The bobby in charge
knew who she was, and instead of putting
her into a cell, he told her to sit on a
stool in the passage, and sent a man for the
medico J.P. in order to have her committed
direct to the gaol hospital. The doctor duly
arrived in a condition of stately fussiness.
“ What’s this ?” he exclaimed, as he spotted the
victim. “ Constable, I know this—ah—lady. She
should—er—er— neve? have been brought here. I
will look into this Now, madam, I will dis-
charge you at once.’ 1 And the doctor seated him-
self at the office-table and indicated that the
prisoner was to be brought in. But the watch-
nouse-keeper at once determined that the watch-
house prestige should be upheld. Stepping into
the passage he tapped the victim of electrical dis-
turbances on the shoulder. The poor woman put
up her trembling hands and said, “ What’s he
going to do?” With a cast-iron chuckle the
bobby whispered, “ He’s going to put another tele-
phone on to yez.” That settled it. Springing up
with a steam-siren yell the woman swooped upon
THE MEANING OF THE WORD.
L ADY: “I hear you volunteered for the Bushmen’s
Corps, Mr. Sprowle. How brave of you I Did
you pass?”
SPROWLE : “ Well, I failed in the shootin’ an’
ridin’—but I passed the doctor all right.”
L.: "What did he say?”
S. : “He said I was sound, but — er—soft!”
the astounded doctor. He just escaped her
clutches in time, and as he dodged round and
round the table he yelled out: “Lock her up!
Lock her up ! I won’t discharge her. Damn her
—lock her up ! ” And with a hasty dive he bolted
up the corridor, leaving the bobby to put her
away and finish his laugh out. It is worth know-
ing that when the lady recovered from the jim-
jams she turned teetotal; and Hall-Owen to the
day of his death was never heard to again attack
the efficiency and discerning faculties of the
“ foorce.”


THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 17~>
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to tneir advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
For
that
Tired
Feeling
take
nm
Franz Josef Lager Beer
. . . The Most Popular, because it is Unequalled in Quality . . .
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
A close call 1 Two miners were sitting
outside a Broken Hill mine-drive, waiting for a
charge to explode. They brought out the explo-
sives they had not used, and let a lighted candle
fall into the box. Instead of mincing up both,
though, the explosion mangled one and simply
tore off the other’s trousers and one of his boots 1
Compare that luck with another’s—his call came
two or three days after. He was standing on a
platform, which gave way ; and he was beginning
a fall of 50ft. among rocks when his hands touched
a man-rope, and clutched it. It was a marvellous
escape ; and the man’s mates were just reckoning
that he had the luck of a dozen, when a solitary
rock bounded down from somewhere, struck him
on the chest, and killed him almost instantly.
* * * *
“ Gobung ” tells a fish-story :
I had gone up the Fitzroy from Rockhampton to fish
for barramundi, having only with me Bobby, a retriever.
I landed at the mouth of a creek, and fishing all day
caught three fish, averaging 121 b. As it was getting
dusk I hooked what must have been a 30-pounder, at
least, but after a great struggle the line parted, and I
lost him. It was then all but dark, and as I was winding
up the remnants of the line, I suddenly caught sight of
something black swimming straight for where I stood.
I gazed for a moment, and then there flashed into my
mind the memory of an alligator which was said to have
killed a calf just about that spot. Then as the thing
drew near enough for me to catch the gleam of two
ferocious eyes, I threw down the rod and ran for my life.
I had gone barely 20 yards when I heard the creature
throw itself out of the water and rush up the bank. I
strained myself to the utmost, but I knew the thing was
gaining on me—then something seemed to rise from the
ground and hit me a violent thump on the forehead, and
I knew no more. When I came-to it was moonlight, and
I was lying at the foot of a tree—which I must have
crashed into in my blind haste --- with a pain in
the head ; Bobby standing over me, licking the blood
from a wound in my forehead. I reached out my hand
and found his coat wet. Then I knew. My monster had
been only the dog, who had, unobserved, gone in for a
swim on his “ own.”
• • * •
“ Cecil P.” : Recently read a stiff yarn
about an orchid in Cuba whioh dropped its ten-
drils at night and drew up and strangled some
Yankee sailors, yet in N.S.W. coastal range are
J. W. HECKENBERG, a Champion Australian Axeman.
vines which, in order to feed their roots, drop
down and pick up all bits of stick, bark, &c., near
the tree upon which they are parasites. In face
of this, of the existence of carnivorous plants and
the growth of creepers to a possible support, why
talk of “ missing links ” ? Practically, there are
none. This oldest of lands revealed the missing-
link between mammal and reptile, and some of
the vegetables show characteristics usually sup-
posed to be purely animal. Also, if there is any
meaning in words, plants have certainly a nervous
system. Re carnivorous plants. Q resident of
Woodville, near Binda, once showed me grass on
his run which he believed was carnivorous—the
flies becoming stuck to its glutinous tips.
* * •
Backblock advt. :
NOTICE.
T HEREBY give notice that, if my Wife does not
RETURN to her home within a fortnight’s time,
I will take strange people in to live with me.
ALBERT .
* * * *
“ D. 8.” : Out vvest lately I came across a
hale old man who had been through the Crimean
war —showed me his medals. He was nearly
penniless, but declined to accept anything he had
not earned. Had tramped hundreds of miles
since he parted with his last job as “private
tutor” to a selector’s family at 7s. a week. He
told me he lost the billet owing to a governess
from Sydney engaging to fill the post for 6s. a
week, with “light household duties” thrown in !
* * * •
“ Oroyez ” : He “A.M.” (8., 7/4/'00), I
have seen any number of young ibis on a Murrum-
bidgee station. On a large piece of swampy
ground there were thousands of ibis—black, black-
and-white, and white—thousands of eggs, and
young ones in all stages of growth. Eggs the size
of a goose’s. The owner of the station told me
that the late Jimmy Tyson used to eat two dozen
ibis eggs at a meal, A.L.S. [But you surely
didn’t believe it. An average goose-egg weighs
30z., at a low estimate. 3 x 24= 720 z. That
is to say J. Tyson used to eat 41b. Boz. of egg at a
sitting. No wonder they called him “Hungry "
Tyson.]
• * * *
“J.A.W.”: Have not seen anywhere
noted the tenacity with which the Australian
aboriginal clings to the literal terms of a bargain.
In one case where a black was asked to procure a
kangaroo for a visitor going back to Sydney, he
was promised a shilling and a flask of powder
(value also a shilling) ; when the darkie returned
with the ’roo he indignantly refused 2s. 6d. ten-
dered him because it was too late to buy the pow-
der. At the same place it was the custom for the
lady of the house when she wanted game to give a
certain black a gun and ammunition, and send him
forth, the condition being that she was to have all
he shot and pay him one shilling. One day when
Billy was returning with a fine lot of pigeons he
was waylaid by another housewife, who offered
him half-a-crown for the lot ; but Billy was
mightily insulted at the idea of being expected to
take more than his regular customer’s price.
• * * *
“A.T.S.” : He “ the luck of drunks and
children.” Twenty odd years ago James Crocker,
who was bookkeeper for Henry Simpson and
Son, coal merchants of Adelaide, was driving a
waggonette containing his family across the rail-
way line near the N. Adelaide station when the
waggonette was run into by a train. Mrs. Crocker
was killed, and the baby she was nursing was
found after the accident on the front part of the
engine, unhurt, and is, I believe) alive at present.
• * * *
“Broke” Billy, a boundary-rider from
Bulga Brush, never refused a request for a pipeful
or a chew of tobacco, yet he hardly ever parted
with any. When asked for some he would put
his hand into his pocket and pull out two or three
plugs of tobacco mixed with many soda-crystals.
“Oh, dash it 1 ” he would say, “the stncknin’
musta got loose in me pockit summow ; but, bless
yer, it won’t hurt th’ tobacca.” And, of course,
the’reply was, “ Oh, never mind, thanks.”
Dear Bulletin. Be
“ G. 8.” (B. 31/3/’00) and
leaning trees. Trees don't
lean towards the sun, though
they do lean towards the
light. In the forest-clad
ranges of S. Gippsland the
timber is remarkably sym-
metrical except on sloping
ground where fully 99 per
cent, of the trees show well-
developed branches facing
the gorge, while the side
fronting the hill is notice-
ably sparse of foliage. The
mountain ash and sassafras,
for instance, in the bottom
of the gorges shoot up
straight and even, while on
either side of the ravine
trees of the same kind are
conspicuously lop - sided.
The statement that trees
twist from east to north is
mere bunkum. In the same
forests, where a few years
ago the bush roads looked
like so many timber-yards,
the paling-splitters had a
superstitious dislike to “left
hand twists,” though trees
winding to the right were in
freat favor for palings.
'he majority of trees dis-
carded by these bushmen
twisted from east to north.
—Bo-peep.
• * *
“ D. 8.” : Among the
curious names given to wag-
gons out West "the most
striking I have come across
is “ Slavery Days.” The
owner of this waggon had a
verbal contract to cart the
station wool during shear-
ing, but the squatter
•showed his strong disap-
proval of such a name by
cancelling the carrying-agreement.
» * * *
Work on the Uganda (Africa) railway line
laid actually to be stopped for three weeks, lately,
on account of the ravages of a pair of huge man-eat-
ing lions, which had terrorised the workers (5000 of
them !) from March, ’99, to December —when they
were killed by Mr. Patterson, a Scotch engineer
having during that period slain and eaten over 80
Indian and native laborers, besides severely injur-
ing others. The fearful shrieks of the victims
rang in the ears night after night, till no one knew
whose turn would come next. Sound men lay and
listened to the cracking of bones and the tearing
of limbs within 50 yards of the place where they
were, and sick men in hospital expired from sheer
terror as they listened to the monsters quarrelling
over their feast. Twenty shots were fired in the
dark at the spot where the lions were eating a man,
and yet they finished him to the last bone. They
would spring over the high thorn “boma,”pick
up a man, and trot round with him, looking for
the best way out, as a cat carries a rat. . . . One
of the brutes was a huge maneless lion Oft. Bin.
long and 3ft. 9in. high. Its last meal had been an
African native. The other was 9ft. 6in. long and
3ft. llin. high. Both beasts killed men solely
for food, though the country round swarms with
every description of game.
» • • *
The sub-protector of aborigines in Far
North 9. A. has reported that births have exceeded
deaths up there for some months past, and that
the natives are living well, in spite of severe and
continuous drought. Which seems to support a
recent Bulletin contention that Centralia was
built to resist drought, and that the deterioration
of the occupied country is due to overstocking
during drought-time.
ONE TOUCH OF NATURE.
In wayback N.S. W. recently a litter of puppies lost their mother, and were taken
in maternal charge by a hen—which brooded over the infant dogs as if they
were so many chicks.
“ H.S.” : The little white tail-tips of the
recently much-discussed bilby are in great
request amongst the aboriginals of Central
Australia as ornaments. Occasionally a big
darkie will be seen with one wee white tip
absurdly displayed, though sometimes this adorn-
ment consists of hundreds of these little tips.
Sometimes a particularly stylish young “ buck ”
wears a tail or two dangling down his spine sus-
pended from a “chignon” on the head, made of
emu-feathers, hair, grease, blood and ochre. Neck
ornaments of human hair twine are often also
finished off with bilby tail-tips; whioh, again, are
sometimes worn gummed on to the nose by one
end, the white snowing-up strongly against the
black-bearded face. These bilby-tails are in great
demand by tribes in whose territory the animal is
not found, consequently on the Georgina and
Herbert Downs and elsewhere they are bartered
for such weapons and implements as are not
possessed of good quality by the local natives.
Note: The bilby is really a species (Lagotis) of
bandicoot.
• • • •
“ Potts ” : Afghans are not good to camels,
though they are not perhaps intentionally cruel;
but their one remedy for disease, sores, or broken
bones is a red-hot iron or burning stick. Have
seen them tie an unfortunate beast down (his
injury being a dislocated shoulder) and then score
him with a red-hot wire.
“ Chas. F.”: (“ E.K.,” 8.,
24/2/’OO, p. 14) Rabbit-proof netting is
not any good. If the rabbits don’t
climb over, crawl under, or break
through, the swaggie who wants work
heaves them over. Rabbits dumped
here in W.A. won’t live —too much
poison. But if allowed to come of
their own accord (and border netting
can’t stop them) they will doubtless
acclimatise and avoid the poison. An
imported horse or cow turned out here
won’t live more than a few days, but
wild cattle bred here never get poi-
soned. Know a “ remittance ” farming
drunk who wired in alarm to his
wealthy English father that the rabbits
were approaching, and please wire £l4O
for netting round selection. Money
sent in hot haste; and it was. then
explained that, as the rabbits were on
an island 20 miles from the shore, and
had been there for several years, there
was no immediate danger.
“Y. Kotze " : “ When the price
of tin was low ” —that ought to make a
good heading for a thousand Northern
reminiscences. Once struck the camp
of an old hatter who lived precariously
out of very attenuated tailings. His
tucker-bill was low. And no wonder !
One of his devices consisted in tying
up a pinch of tea in a piece of mosquito-
curtain (wherever he got that) and
dipping it into the boiling billy. The
time of immersion depended on the
result of the day’s labor, or the pros-
pects of the tin-market. When I called
he paid me the compliment of an extra
2-seconds’ dip. At the week’s end a
fresh pinch would be inserted, and the
anaemic old charge converted into
tobacco-substitute. There are always
men about who deride thrift and try
to ridicule that sober, saving instinct.
Improbable persons have told me that
the ashes of their unday smoke werSe
used as tooth-powder afterwards. But
I have never seen a toothbrush north of the Capri-
corn.
“S.”: “El-
ler” (B. 10/3/’00)
asks: “When
did the average
dingo become fast
enough to catch
the average bun-
ny?” The aver-
age rabbit isn’t
nearly as fast as
is supposed. A
smart man can
run him down on
a bot day on foot,
and nine dogs
out of ten can
catch him any
day providing
he is not too
near his burrow.
To the average
dingo that can
wear down a kan-
garoo, catching a
bunny is a simple
matter. No dog,
however, is fond
of rabbit, and
those who eat it
quickly lose con-
dition. Also,
“ Eller” may not
know that rabbit
coursing is done
with fox-terriers,
which have no difficulty in running-up to bunny
after the first spurt.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. —I know a man who is
prepared to swear that he has known a dog to re-
cover after having his stomach opened to extract
a bait from it; the stomach then being washed
out with soap-and-water and sewn up again. Is
such a thing possible ?—W.G.C.
* * * •
The blacks in parts of N.Q. believe firmly
in re-incamation. If a blackfellow dies they say
his soul goes into a hole in a mountain and re-
mains there until a child is about to be born. The
soul then passes into the body of the newly-born
child. As this child grows up he claims two sots
of relatives. Besides his present brothers and
sisters he claims also the brothers and sisters of
the defunct blackfellow whose soul he appro-
priated. At the same time no kinship is recog-
nised between the two sets of brothers and sisters
—barring their joint relationship to this indivi-
dual.
* * * *
“ Gobung ” : Not generally known that
the frog is a cannibal. Writer placed a large
brown one in a tin with a number of smaller ones,
and subsequently found him “surrounding” his
mates.
* * • •
Dear Bulletin. — Re “X.’s” par. (B.
25/11/’99) I have also seen worms in the intestines
Miss ALICE HOLLANDER, the rising Contralto.
Photo., The Falk Studios.
of rabbits, and have found peculiar cysts consist-
ing of white specks and a watery substance im-
bedded in the flesh of one of the hind legs or in
the back, close to the kidneys. These cysts are
about an inch through and go off with a fizz when
punctured. Diseased bunnies are usually fat, and
trappers bundle them off to be frozen every time.
HIS MISTAKE.
Came a woolly man to the chapel small,
And he sat in the foremost pew ;
He was spare of limb, he was tanned and tall,
And he came from the bush, we knew ;
For his looks were strange, and his clothes unfit,
And his manners were rather rude.
When the sermon flagged on his plug he bit,
Then he settled him down and chewed.
When the plate appeared at the stranger’s side
For a moment it puzzled his wits—
Then, “ Oh, thanks,” says he, with a touch of pride,
“ But it’a seldom I ever spits.”
S.S.


AUSTRALIA
IS AN
ISLAND!
c
<L V s
Tea Set
and Stand
725.
A VERY BIG ISLAND—supposed to be British, but principally Australian. Australian in its love for Tea.
. . . We supply every requisite for Tea-making at BRITISH prices.
Afternoon Tea Sets, most elegant designs, 26/- set. ~M~ Tea Pots at 12/- to 30/- each.
Tea Set, hand engraved 32 6 set. / \ Tea Sets on stands and off stands.
Tea Kettles, 30/- each ; Solid Silver, £lO.
GUARANTEE EACH ELECTRO PLATED SET AS PLATED ON WHITE METALS-
n
(The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney)
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY).
“ I want Warner’s Safe Cure
NOT SOMETHING BETTER.”
I know just what I want. We have used
Warner’s Safe Cure in our family for biliousness
and for attacks of kidney disease, and know all
about it. I don’t know anything about a cheaper
substitute “just as good.” Warner’s Safe. Cure
cures, and that’s what I want. It cured a friend
of mine, whose companionship I value as dearly
as life, of Bright’s Disease, and my son’s wife used
to always suffer from bilious headaches until she
took Warner’s “Safe ” Cure ; and now you want to
put me off with some new-fangled, high-soundin’
medicine. Just give me a bottle of Warner’s
“Safe’’Cure, or I will go elsewhere. I know
what I want; I’m buying it for myself for liver
trouble, and I want the best —the tried and proven,
never failing, and that’s Warner’s “ Safe ” Cure.
You don’t make as much profit on Warner’s
“Safe” Cure as on “something just as good.”
Well, I’m sorry, but then I didn’t fail in health
just to make you a millionaire. You can get
cheap things of all descriptions, but when you’re ill
you want the best,*
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
“ For England and All ” : You, like the rest ot
the Jingo crew, quote the and Daily Mail and
Standard ; but you take care not to quote London
Chronicle, or Echo, or Manchester Guardian Makoro:
No interest. The old gentleman may be included in the
600 whom Henry Parkes, with a lofty hand-wave, said he
had seen pass through Parliament and leave no trace
behind Mab. :If all the other rhymesters were dead,
and it was the last bit of verse in the world, we’d extin-
guish the breed in you Orara : You leave us in the
dark, because you send no news-clipping as to the prelimi.
nary proceedings at the coronial enquiry or at the police-
court. Broadly speaking, the Crown in N.S.W. takes no
trouble at all as to defending a prisoner on trial for his
life. Formerly, £5 ss. was supposed to be available for
the defence of a moneyless prisoner capitally arraigned
(though it was Bar etiquette to take no money for such
service) ; but through the good offices of Mr. G. B. (now
Mr. Justice) Simpson when Attorney-General, the sum
placed at the disposal of a prisoner so situated was in-
creased to 15 guineas, which no doubt is always
claimed. The Crown Law officer, or the Judge at
the trial, calls upon any barrister available to defend a
pauper capitally arraigned, and, generally, the choice
falls upon some otherwise briefless junior who happens to
be present. We cannot comment on the present case
as the officially-stated facts are not before us
Roughrider : You call it “ Light Literature,” and when
we dropped it in Sydney the thud woke up Melbourne
Sansleson : Great'Scott! Decta M. : Commonplace,
and to be commonplace is six different kinds of Gehenna.
....A Flossie : Idea unserviceable. Still we are always
glad to hear from a lady named Flossie.... Jack S, :
“ Perfect Fit” has no interest except in the fact that the
lady hadn’t all her clothes on. And most ladies are that
way at least twice a dav Camiro : Lambing-down yarn
very old F.R. : “ Chance of a Night ” better fitted for
Boy’s Own Shriek.. ..Fact: Many thanks.. ..Gotta Rock :
Not much in them Rough : Where is the alleged fool
who said Sydney was “ the dirtiest city in the world ” ?
Didn’t you simply imagine him?... .Ease (Fremantle):
Your pen - name isn’t the name of the thing we
read your poem with... .Native Q. : Stories in which
infants or any other kind of persons or animals
are sick in public places are objectionable Sister
Rose: So did we—with mixed feelings. Many good
points about story but it puts the sin too baldly
A.J.G.: The man who can’t write about anything else
always writes about the Fallen Woman... .Phoenix : Rat
jokes are very very numerous just now D. M M. : It
shows up that apostle of light as a pretty bad extortioner,
hut in the absence of evidence what canbedone? The docu-
ment you send doesn’t convict the apostle in any way
R.W.T. (Paddington): (1) The Boers came off best in 40
years of war with the Zulus. In 1877 the Boers were
vastly more num >rous and better armed than when they
beat Dingaan, and the Zulu nation wasn’t nearly sostrongas
in Dingaan’s time. The theory that, but for British inter-
vention, the Boers must have been extinguished by a
nation they had beaten for 40 years is silly rot. (2) A large
proportion of the Boers were willing to be annexed in ’77
because they were promised the same self-governing
powers as Natal and Cape Colony. But when their Legis-
lature was abolished, and the wise Shepstone was replaced
by the tactless, insulting and despotic Lanyon, things
changed. Hothain, a milder man than Lanyon, drove the
Australians into armed revolt. (3) If Britain, under
semi-compulsion, sold Australia to Russia, and the Rus-
sians demanded that you, under pain of being called a
traitor and a dastard and a scoundrel, should fight for
Russia against England, would you doit? The Cape, with
its Dutch population, was sold to Britain, and the Cape
Dutchman, because he doesn’t want to fight his own
people, is called a traitor. Of course he is a traitor by
all the rules o’ law —but you would ba as bad a one in
similar conditions “ T.P.”: Thanks; print shortly....
“ A MISSIONARY'S GRAVEYARD .”
Pan: Sentiment too loosely gripped to please us
M.F.K. : Don’t want it Tudas: Won’t betray you.
...A.E.B. : Not skill enough W.M.F. : Nothing in
last batch Beta : Still lame and tame and clumsy
Frank O’S. : All right. Should he interesting ; but don’t
waste words over ’em Adam Lyre : Please select some
other pen-name M.E.P. : Might possibly do for an
illustration Camiro : “ Jimmy ” too long drawn ; may
screw up a bit C.M.A. : No literary skill J.M.R. :
Sent! only what has real live interest S.G.S. : You
“ think it will take well.” Well, there are certainly
novelties in it. F’rinstance—
—Gobung: Labored and feeble R.C.A. : Pretty good
in places, but average not high enough M.M.W. : This
paper does not go out of its way to chronicle the details
of such unspeakable horrors Baa: Album verses.
And this isn’t an album J.G.D. : Thanks. B.R.W.
says he sticks to every word of it.... A.S. (Chillagoe) :
Not usable Y.A. : Preserve us! Lumeah : “No
Tales ” over-sugges'. ive for print, and “ Oocky’s Revenge ”
too bald a narration J.8.0.H. : Passed 0ut.... J. Buf. :
Probably G.H. (Deniliquin): Jingles fairly ; but there
isn’t quite enough pith or fun in it. Try again, with a
better story—and not too long O.P. : One mottled
poem declined. ...C.HB. : No ; you have a tolerable yarn
but you can’t handle it. ..Junes Ker : The London
Journal lady with the Hellenic grace of movement has
gone to the Abysmal place of rest . . .H. 11.8. : Incredibly
brutal.... F. Hagen: Many thanks... .Oigaro :On con-
sideration, we don’t like Rom. of Rocks.... E.B.a.
(Gym.): Will print.... Excuses : Sorry no chance here
Van de Bump : May serve for illustration... .G.D.W. :
Say what you will, the honorary Jaypee system is a
corrupt system and should be utterly abolished. In
England and in various parts of Australasia, at various
times, we have observed its operations from trade, lodge,
society, and other view-points, and are satisfied no good
can come of it... .G.F.B. : Tell us—is that pork-joke
original ?... .Sooky : Might all have gone into 20 words —
and hardly worth even that.. .. Native Q. : May alter and
use Don’t remember “ Queen ”at present H.L.N. :
Hardly force enough... .Larrikin : Rises almost to power
here and there ; but, on the whole, too crudely melo-
dramatic Boudin. : Sq. R. in type.... Ex-Balm.: You
don’t say when it appeared.... Will J. : Sorry none up,
though all have traces of originality. “Back-yard” is
best... .Alex. Syd.: Too slight, though not ill-written.. ..
G.E.M. : Some simple pathos, but not enough “story” in
it....J.C.G.: “ Commandments,” will consider... .James
R.: Yes ; it certainly wa-< stated in the press, during the
early part of the war, that lyddite fumes were poisonous ;
in fact it was proudly claimed by British jingoes that
Britain was using a poisoned weapon.
It is not always wise to be a civil hero.
A certain latitude is allowed to the military hero,
but a Melbourne larrikin has just discovered the
folly of the theory that virtue is its own reward.
He saved two boys from drowning in the Yarra,
after a long run and a hard battle necessitating
medical assistance to preserve the hero from the
effects of exhaustion and a barrel-full of Yarra
juices. This was all very fine, and the papers said
pretty things about the valiant young man, but it
reminded a soulless police that a youth of his
name, age, weight and general outline and charac-
teristics was wanted for various minor offences,
not to mention such frivolities as hitting police-
men with building material. So the law seized on
the absent-minded beggar, and he was sentenced
to ten days without the option. Result —another
Victorian Cross. No Victorian was ever crosser.
“ Puyyaka ” on the plague :
The prevailing popular ignorance on this subject would
be ludicrous were it not in connection with so serious a
matter. The oracles of business-trains discourse learnedly
upon typhus and immunised horses, while the Solomon
Eagle of the bar-floor adjures great uncleansed Australia
to avoid the injection of “ stuff out of niggers in Injer.”
It was to one of these latter a medico said: “Look at
the color, you fool; if it was got out of a nigger wouldn’t
it be black ? ” The “ logic ” was accepted and the ob-
jecfcor bared his arm for the needle. Of the two chief
prophylactic agents Haffkine’s has the Australian floor
at present. The other, Yersin’s, is mainly curative,
though it also possesses certain prophylactic powers. No
others have been tried on a sufficiently large scale to
give trustworthy conclusions, though the work of
Galcotti and Lustig, of Florence University, seem to trend
in the direction of the ideal. Iliffkine, bacteriologist,
in Allahabad, India, worked long at the problem before he
solved it. Two difficulties arose with the medium—for a
fluid medium is necessary for the suspension of the actual
inoculative material. It had to be of such a composition
that the. religious sensibilities of natives would not be
offended, and it had to provide sufficient aeration for the
growth of the bacilli. The first difficulty was got over by
the use of goat-flesh digested with hydrochloric acid and
neutralised, the second by the addition of oil drops, from
the lower surface of which the bacilli could suspend them-
selves. In later brews, wheat pulp has been used instead
of flesh, to overcome Hindu prejudice against the medium.
Inoculated with a culture of plague, this is gently
shaken daily for from 2 to 6 weeks, brought to a certain
pitch of translucency discernible by the practised eye,
sterilised of the bacteria of inflammation, and
bottled in heat - sealed sterile glass tubes. Then
it forms a brown fluid, slightly turbid and of a pecu-
liar heavy scent. A dose of 5 cubic centimetres (1£
drachms, English) injected under the skin of an adult—
generally on the outside of the left arm—will usually pro-
tect. against death from plague for a period variously
estimated at from 6 to 12 months. Graduated doses are
used for women and children. Certain constitutional
effects Comm'inly follow, and in the Indian service a rise
of temperature to 102° is looked upon as essential for
efficient inoculation. This disturbance varies with con-
stitution, but probably it is caused by other constituents
than the actual immunising agent ; in some cases,
doubtless by insufficient sterilization measures. But
this is not an adequate explanation, and until further
experiment is made we can only accept the Indian
method. The protection conferred is, estimated at the
best, by no means absolute, but it has a very
great effect on the death-rate. It is necessary in any
case that the constitutional effect shall have passed-off
before any protection can be expected. In popular lan-
guage, the protective agent must have got completely
“ into the system.” Indian statistics show encouraging
returns. Of a Parsee colony of 304 souls, 277 were inocu-
lated at the beginning of an epidemic, with a return of 6
cases and no deaths. Of the 27 who refused inoculation,
6 took plague and 4 died. In Byculla Gaol last year, of
the uninoculated 4 per cent, took it, and of the inocu-
lated only - 6 per cent. In Lanauli Hospital the ratio of
attacks was 6.8 to 1, of deaths 67 to lof these. Similar
results could be quoted indefinitely obtained, too,
from a native population whose bare limbs, exposed
to slight injury of various kinds, present opening for
infection such as does not occur with European-clad
people. For, in the great majority of cases, plague is an
inoculated disease. A tiny scratch, a pimple, a scarcely
perceptible abrasion may furnish a door for the bacillus.
Except in epidemics, the inhalative form—plague-
pneumonia—seldom occurs. When it does, it means
death—a ghastly death where the lungs struggle against
a poison turning their delicate cells to putridity. Turn
up Defoe on the Great Plague of 300 years ago if you want
to know what plague-pneumonia is. Those who assert
that the Sydney outbreak is one of typhus can never have
witnessed either typhus or plague. A typhus case can be
diagnosed before the door is opened. The mortality of
typhus equals that of plague, and the characteristic rapid
onset, spotty eruption and ever-haunting smell make it
unmistakeable. But in typhus the short bacillus of the
shape of a Manilla Victoria cigar is never seen, though it
is visible in many microscopes in Sydney and Melbourne
at present—in Sydney specimens. There is no mistake.
The people of Sydney have among them as ghastly a pro-
duct of Eastern filth as ever swept a town off the map.
They have provided by their negligence a culture-ground
for an epidemic which may yet devastate the world.
Dr. G-resswell, President of Victorian
Board of Health : “ There is no danger in coming
to Sydney at the present time. Of course, it
depends a great deal on where the visitors go.
To come to a place like The Australia Hotel is
to run no risk at all.”*
Master-puncher Lawrence Foley, in colla-
boration with a well-known Sydney sporting jour-
nalist, is writing a book on the Art of Boxing—
which will, no doubt, be called “My ‘Scrap’
Book,” with the accent on the “scrap.” Larry
is still a man of excellent physique, and could,
with a few weeks’ training, get through a respect-
able battle—though it might not compare in vigor
with that he fought 30 years ago against old-time
champion, Sandy Ross —“For Foley and the
Green,” as the almost-forgotten ballad had it.
Foley’s comfortable residence at Waverley, Syd-
ney, is frequently visited by sporting cognoscenti
from England and America, where the retired
champion’s name is very well known indeed, and
it was to an American visitor who pilgrimaged to
the shrine of St. Laurence, in company with a
Bulletin man, that Foley unburdened himself
recently—somewhat to the following effect: —
“ You were askin’ me just now why I haven’t sent
you any champions lately like Peter Jackson find
Fitzsimmons. Now, listen a’me ! It ain’t because
I can’t. They’re here, undeveloped ! Yes,
mister (are you listenin’) I tell you this : 1 could
pick out a hundred men in N.S. Wales to-day,
keep my eye on ’em, try ’em out, and in 12 months
I’d stake a’most anything but my ’mortal sold
that I’d have three world-beaters from out of the
crowd. It’s the country and the feedin’. I’ve
thought it out (see what I mean) an’ I’m sure of
it! Look at the best fightin’ animals, and the
gamest; listen ’a me—the gamest. What are
they ? —why, the lion and the tiger ! What are
they fed on?—meat! —see what I mean ? That’s
the secret. The Australian eats meat with a
big big whatever letter meat commences
with. It doesn’t matter what their occupa-
tion is, if they’re reared op meat they are
natural fighters, and game. Of course, it’s
better if they’ve got an -Irish rather —see what
I mean —but a meat diet’s the principal thing.
They used to tell a yarn about me trainin’ two
holy bishops of the Church to spar, and that they
had a habit of scrappin’ at my place. Well, it
aint quite true ; but couldn’t Archbishop Vaughan
use ’em ! See what I mean ! Down on my knees
I went to his lordship on the wharf, when he was
foin’ away, and, says he, ‘My blessin’ on you,
iawrence.’ An’ then he added, ‘ It’s one cham-
pion seein’ another off.’ Rest his soul ! An’ one
of my relations; he’s a priest, you know—a meat-
fed priest. He’s up in Queensland now, an’, of
course, out of respect for his holy office, he doesn’t
go ‘ lookin’ for it,’ but, for a priest, he has a very
dirty left and a good right—eye, toe, an’ hand all
in a line. We sent him to Ireland to make a
priest of him. Jim Punch an’ me took out his
passage. The si lippin’-clerk looks at Tom an’ looks
at me, an’ says, ‘ Rowin’ man or pug ? ’ —meanin’ my
nephew, for there’s a discount of 20 per cent, on
professionals. ‘No,’ says I, ‘ the young feller’s
a-goin’ into the church.’ ‘True bill,’ says Jim
Punch —for we could see that that shippin’-clerk
found it hard to swaller that Larry Foley and Jim
Punch tuck such a real interest in the true reli-
gion ! But about meat-eatin’ for fighters—shall I
tell you a yarn ? See what I mean ! There once
was a rich old English lady, who came to Ireland
and saw what fine children an Irish working
woman had. So she ups and says, ‘Bridget,
what will I have to do to get childer like youm ? ’
‘Feed ’em on praties an’ buttermilk,’ says
Bridget. So the lady was delighted, and gev
Bridget lialf-a-crown and says, ‘ I’ll take back
with me some real Irish potatoes and buttermilk,
MASTER-PUNCHER LARRY FOLEY .
Photo., Brand.
and then I’ll have fine childer ! ’ ‘But,’ says
Bridget, with a sly wink, ‘to have really fine
childer, I’m thinkin’ that you’d have to take Pat
along wid you, too.’ What, ho ! she bumps !
Was anyone listening? Well, anyway, there
you are,’ added Lawrence, ‘Australian fighters
are made with meat —if ye have Pat atony with it,
too. Coin’to put it into print ?—well, be careful
of the grammar ! See what I mean ? ”
On veldt and round the kopjes
They’ll shed their life-blood there,
And their graves in memorandum
Be wet by England’s tear !
A GOOD MAN DAMNED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I stand beside his grave alone,
A nd, spite of tears, I laugh
To read upon the milk-white stone
A stranger's epitaph.
T understood, him more than wife
Or mother old and grey,
They saw the good side of his life;
I—where the evil lay!
“ A Christian gone to his reward!"
“A h ushand kind and true! ”
Lies! Lies! He “gathered to the Lord
The proud, wild man 1 knew!
And yet for him I weep to-day,
A sinner past Jits span,
A nd long to wipe those lies away.
And unite: “A d good man! ”
E.D.


The' actink-cfcairman of the
®w=s^4i^ , a
be and his assistant. Hr. SchhnK, no «
Vioi* Virivtfever. they made a point oi
somtinimaa all the passengers, more espe-
chilly- when, they were getting their luggag
clcarci-bx U»_Cu»toBIB officers.
Yf\V> °f <
m
r£ CRIMINAL with ooob
POINTS.
The fact that criminality and cowardice
fdo not necessarily go hand in hand, thongii
It so often does, ip, demonstrated in a re-
waj- by the case of &e yonng
min, Archibald Tmlbob, who. .«t Sonth
Tfarro last Friday,, so nobly rescued from:
dressing the tyro bpra_ Frederick Henry,
\4nd Derbio Wild er ' T -
il t .''S. Co^w,c f e< i of ““Ht. trCTpeaJfnJiUt?
Ji®* e^a! ' nor 1 00 two occasions) anci wilful
lffla h S ,%:^°C! l ' ts - *>«“ *««
lam he capped tria career by a conviction for
“ ““"It. occasioning severe bodily harm.
. Criminality haa r.era:
oeen an adjunct to his bread-winning, anc
tbß i pohde say that whether in gaol or out,
« „'i u a r rflVs **!» * t«d worker, devoting
° Qlv bis leisure time toaasauUing constables
a pd engaging in other acts of lawlessness.
/AjbutW U S
lookup k S cr - 4^i>^ >
NAji»7 . “Cyttf \\
\fcW*» “TJk £ *
\tfie ®t> ‘
\k-Wv«. ">-%*■
W CO,Ve " X
(4oe*a>* K ) y
A p r
S&S^***.
fa L n *y mp aiA „ ,
S'V'Z? *%z ft Z°£y°'***)
v ‘ et *C>‘ cy^l^ 1
k mm W WeVe Q oxv?
ft T^W^.
oav S c \ j 0
y llfn/ i \ \'
fr W aI
yfikAiSP Ji n/{
tJ%A
iSSKr
&*£f A
T* yzrl J - v
T 0 ■
"Tbe -girls at the telephono ex-
change are anxiously Awaiting the dgj
cision of the Postmaster-G eneral on the
•question of wearing the bead gear.
. If Mr "Watt decides that the
head gear shall be worn, a shriek from
the girls may be .anticipated, and Par-
liament will doubtless ring with..the.
echo, of it.
’ Yl'° ir
\*>6rX
nm
MSe t/oV ~
s</ ii£bW
will "be. Well. \
in Vis #*&:
CW VeA/o>;e
S^i 7 < > 'io j
slr^ebT.'
' fruKip School^ c 7 er : ■" K°Y' A\ I
T? U f.rj-f' W 7 -
W «** fW W ”«es»> L^ ,d
WelKyci c^>’W)
MELBOURNIANA.


These are the houses that Jerry built.
This is the filth that lay in the houses that Jerry built.
These are the Inspectors who didn’t see the filth that
lay in the houses that J errf built.
This is the Mayor who said you could eat your dinner
off the floors of the houses that contained the filth that
the Inspectors didn’t see, and that fed the rat that,
spread the plague germinated in the houses that Jerry
built.
And this is the money saved by the
City Council by not cleaning the
streets where stood the houses that
contained the filth that, etc., etc.
And these are the graves of the victims of the plague
that was spread by the rat that lived on the filth that
lay in the houses that Jerry built.
Chorus of Thoroughly Frightened Olp Maids : “ For
Heaven’s sake, kill him, Syd.”
He will not, be happy till he gets that oven.
SOME PLAGUEY MATTERS.


%
/
s
A.SAUNDERS
8IS;SI7 CEORCES 1-
SYDNEY
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Reliable LEVERS. “The Challenge,” 16s ; Un-
rivalled, 20s. ; Pure Silver, 355. (All guaranteed.)
M
Soua v>uia or i/ouuicy jiZ.iUs,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5. 15c. Solid Gold,
£5 10s, £6, £6 10s, £7, £B, £lO. Pure
Silver, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Send for Price Illustrated Book.
Gold 2 Birds, Chain and Heart. Full Size
10s, small 8s 6d.
Gold Brooch, 5s 6d. Special value.
\ » /
%
BIIOROE S* SYDSiS
A. SAUNDERS.
London Levers 255, Pure Silver £2 6s. Hunting
Oases, £2 10s, £?.. Written guarantee.
Send for Price List.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold 2-Bar Pearl Set and Red Stone Scroll
Rrnnnh. 90q.
Any Name or Initial Free.
Solid Gold, 7s 6d ; Extra strong, 10s.
15c. Gold 15s ; 18c. Gold 20s. Silver 3s 6d.
Gold Good Luck and Bird Brooch, 10s 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Wish Bone and Pearl and Turqooiw
Bee, 17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 355.
tJßfiiimiiiiiil
BSSUMi
Gold 3-Bar and Red Stone Brooch, 15s.
Very Neat.
FRONT STUDS. 9c. Gold, 8s 6d and 10s.
3 Front, 15c. Gold, 12s 6d and 15s.
Send for List.
\ 1 /
s
ot*P ER *Sy
A. SA l ... .....
New Model Wacerbury, f-plaGe, Chronometer
Balance, Jewelled, 16s 6d ; Silver, 35s ; Gold,
£2 15s. Thesj Prices are Specially Reduced.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c. Gold New Secret Name Brooch, 3 Diamonds,
£3 ; Diamond and 2 Rubies, £2 10s ; Cheaper
Style, 255. Any Name FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered 15c. Gold Key, Heart & Ivy Brooch
35s ; 18c. Gold, £2 ss. The Very Latest.
£ oauNDERS.
Registered 9c. Gold Amethyst Brooch,
17s Cd ; 15c. Gold, 30s ; 18c. Gold, 355.
Our Latest Motto Brooch.
15c. Gold, Diamonds and Bubies, with
Ivy Leaves, 255. Very Cheap.
A. SAUNDEBS.
Latest Gold Brooch, Pearl Set Bird and
Heart Amethyst, 21s ; 15c. Gold, £2.
16c. Gold Wish Bone Forget-me-not
Brooch, 15s. Special Value.
CHARM.
Gold Mizpah, 4s.
CHARM.
Gold, Amethyst,
and Pearls, 15s 6d;
15c. Gold, 255.
Latest Design.
Special Reduced
Gold Trilby Rings,
5s 6d ; with Ame-
thyst, 7s 6d ; with-
out Chain, Ss 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Dinna Forget
Brooch, 10s fid. Our
own Registered
Design.
A. SAUNDERS
Gold Charm, 10s.
Very Latest.
CHARM.
Gold Wish Bone
and Heart or
Horseshoe, 4s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Gold, with
Enamelled Post
Office, 10s.
Gold Bell and Chains,
4s 6d 3s 6d 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS
S 'ECIAL MADE ROTHERft Aid LEVERS,
Fun Cap, £3 10s : Extra Jewelled Chronomoter
Balance, £4 10s ; Key!ass Full Cap, £5.
Send for 1900 List. All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Link, 20s; 15c. Gold
355. Silver, 4s.
Vjuicl Heart &Dyimbell Links,
l‘2s 60 16c., 25s ; Silver, 3s 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
New Style Gold Links, Extra
Strong and Heavy, 22s 6d ; 15c.
Solid Gold, £2 2s. Silver, 4s 6d.
A Strong Reliable Link.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Shield & Dumbell Links,
9c. Gold, 21s ; 15c. Gold, 355.
Silver, 4s 6d.
ifllHis
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Links, 18s Gd, 20s,
255, 355, £2, £2 10s.
Monogram, 2s 6d Extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Charm Envelope
with Twopenny
Stamp, 12s 6d.
Name Free.
A.SAUNDERS
CHARM, New
Gold Bell, 7s 6d
A. ( Agent).
Ladies' Waterl ury \Vatch, Keyle
ISs 6.1 ; Pure Silver, 30s ; Gold, £1 ]
Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Gold Good Wish Brooch,
13s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 255. Silver, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Latest Gold 1900 Pearl & Diamond Brooch, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Brooch, 7 Opals, 14 Pearls, 355.
Bracelets to Match, £2 16s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird Chain and Heart Brooch, 7s 6d.
Special Value.'
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Butterfly Brooch, Pearls, Red or
Blue Stones, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Erin-Go-Bragh B 'ooch, 17s 6d ;
15c. ( old, 30s ; 18c. G dd, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Gold Century Brooch, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Uc. Gold 2-Bar Pure Diamond Brooch, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Latest Gold Rose,
Shamrock & Thistle, 8s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHARM, Old English
Coin, Gold Mounted,
10s.
n
Ladies’ Curb Gold
Chain Snap Padlock,
255, 30s, 355, £2 ss, £3;
15c., £2 10s, £3, £4,
£4 10s, £5, £6, £lO.
10s. Extra for Key
Padlock.
All with Safety Chain.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold B ind, Opal
17s 6d ; 15c. Gold, 30s
18c. Gold, .£2.
Send for Size Card.
u
A. SAUNDERS.
l®c. Gold, 3 Pure 1 ia-
>][>onds, 2 Opal Hearts,
*4 10s. Latest Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 5 Opals,
4-Hoop, £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3 10s.
•r
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, 3 Sapphires,
Rubies or Opals, 4 Dia-
monds, £3, £3 10s, £4,
£4 10s, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
monds, and 2 Rubies or
Sapphires, Buckle,
£2 10s.
18c. Solid Gold, Dia-
mond Band, £2, £2 10s,
£3 ; 15c. Gold, 30s.
18c. Solid Gold, Extra
Strong and Heavy, one
or three Diamonds,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Solid Gold Chain
Rings, 15s, 20s, 30s, £2.
Price to Quality of Gold.
am
9c. Gold, 12s 6d, 16s;
15c., 30s, 35s ;
18c., 255, 30s, 355, £2.
A
' L
■
Vh-
.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Keyless Waltham, f-plate, Patent Cases,
£4 4s ; Wo. gold, £5 5s ; Extra Quality, £7 10s,
£lO ; 18c. Gold, £l2 10s. Solid Silver, £2 10s,
£3, £4, £5. We give a Guarantee Certificate.
A. SAUNDERS.
Registered Gold 2-lJird 2-lleart Amethyst
Brooch, 20s ; Pearl Set Bird, 22s (id ;
15ct. Gold, £2.
MIZIPA
&
A. SAUNDERS.
Ivy Leaf Gold Mizpah Brooch, 12s 6d.
• Silver, 4k Od.
ALL ARTICLES POST FREE.
Watch Repairs Guaranteed.
Silver Hunting Kevless, 255, 20s, £2,
£2 10s, £3.
Solid Gold Keyless, £2, £3, £4, £5.
Superior Quality, £6, £7, £B, £lO.
All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Wish Bone Heart and Arrow, with
Red Stone, 12s Od.
Our Newest Gold Bird and Bell, 6s 6d
Amethyst, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
18c. Gold, Pure Double-cut
Diamond, £5 ;
Larger, ±'6 6s, £7 10s, £8 10s,
£lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
m
nm
A. Saunders.
H a!lr? l ?, d< L V Y ed oi n £ and Keepers, 9c.
Solid Gold, 6s 6d, ,s 6d, 10s each ; 16c. Gold
16s ; extra heavy, 26s ; 18c. Gold, 20s ; extra
heavy, 30s, 355, 40s. Send for card
A. SAUNDERS.
New Sword and Australian Enamelled Flag Brooch, 20s.
Ours is the Australian Flag.
Call and See our Jewellery Exhibition—A Special Easter Show
A. SAUNDERS,
or Send for our 1900 Complete Illustrated Book
FREE ANYWHERE.-s-^
Leading Art Jeweller,
815 817 George St.,
NEARLY
OPPOSITE
RAILWAY
STATION,
‘Raupfig


One woman in Bruce (M.L.) district is the
personification of modesty. She describes herself
on the electoral roll as ‘ 1 nothing.
“ Carpe ” : I once asked a man who knew
what it felt like to be hanged. He was a young
Spanish sailor, who had murdered the first-mate of
his ship, at Levuka, in 1873. It was before the
annexation of the islands, and the Sheriff, feeling
funky about his authority to put a man to death,
got 20 or 30 townspeople to haul on a rope attached
to a high pole on the beach. As the night-dews
made the rope stiff and prevented the noose from
running properly, the whole thing was a. fiasco, and
the culprit was returned to gaol, from which he
got away after a term of imprisonment. Said the
victim of this weird experience: ‘‘When I was
being hauled up I was half-strangled, and the pain
caused by my neck having to sustain the weight
of my body was so great that I became unconscious
before I reached the top, of the pole. When I
opened my eyes, a h w minutes afterwards, my face
was turned upwards to the sky, and I could see
nothing but the vast expanse of blue. I thought
I was dead, and I said to myself ‘ Am I in Heaven
or in Hell ?’ After a while I wriggled about until
I got my face turned downwards. Then, seeing
the people on the beach I realised my position and
sang out to them to shoot me quickly, as I could
not die that way. But no one would do it, and
after a brief conference I was lowered to the
Sound and sent back to gaol. No, I don’t like
ing hanged, though the stiffness in my neck
soon wore off. The worst part of the business was
the stifling sensation when I was first suspended.
I would rather be shot than killed that way.”
; mmm
' VD2(2 v^
**- , i * ~iL
,
f- * ■ <-V*iV’' - - ',.» -y ; !
•• i-\ -i • V p*-'.: 1 ' ■' ”> V '* s[< r
The COOLALTA VINEYARDS, from a Photograph.
Lichtest Wines in Australia.
J. A. WILKINSON
Office* :
374 George Street, Sydney.
(down John Sands’ lane.)
‘•Sllenburgs Foods.
PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers oI YOUNd INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys ”
The “ Allenburys ”
Milk Food No. i
Specially adapted to the first three months of life.
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of lH*.
Complete Poods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of
hot water only.
The “ Allenburys” Malted Food no. 3
_ ** TTnr Tnfnnt.a rv
Tnfn.llfa fiVPT six TTWlTlthfl of
To be prepared for use by tbe
addition of COW’S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Food is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that—“No Better Food Exists.”
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.
The Most Refreshing Drink in Australia,
MONTSERRAT
(TRADE MARK)
LIME FRUIT JUICE
AND CORDIALS.
m
■MONTSERRAT-LIME-FRUIT JUICE
either with water or Aerated Water is
a delightful thirst-quencher.
The LANCET savs:—"We counsel the public
to dnnk Lime-Fruit Juice whenever and wherever
they list. It is a far more wholesome drink than
any form of Alcohol.”
N.B.—Used in the British Navy. The Sirdar (Lord
Kitchener) obtained supplies for the troops in the
Soudan; and the American Government for the troops
in
Sole Consignees:
EVANS, LEBCHER & WEBB, LONDON J
EVANB, BONB & Co., LIVERPOOL.
Agents s
BYDNEY—Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.;
E. Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co,
NEWCASTLE—D. Cohen & Co.
THE FINEST TONIC
FER BRAVAIS
BRAVAIS' IRON
In concentrated drops.
FER BRAVAIS
FER BRAVAIS
most effective in
restoring the vitality
of the blood,and ena-
bling ill. constitution
to resist climatic
influences.
Invaluable in all
cases of anaemia and
general debility.
Highly recommended
lor weak and
, debilitated children.
LANCET. “A beautiful and interesting
preparation."
BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL.-“Jf has all
the good effects of tron without producing
constipation or disturbing the digestion,and
it does not blachen the teeth "
SOI.D BY CHEMISTS AI.L THE WOtll.D OVEH.
WHOLESALE: Paris, 130, Rue Lafayette.
Pateijt sb€€p-Brai)dii)g Liq Cid.
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting Bgnl ,*■s J££'
3s Gel per gall, in Melto. n,n.d Sydney;
Not Injure tlie Wool | to Scour Out j
9d per gall.
In Brisbane.
lack, Red, and Blue.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grimwade & Co.
MELBOURNE.
Agents— RlCH & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
A SHATTERED NERVOUS SYSTEM
Neuralgia, Indigestion, AATeak and Hopeless.
COMPI iICATION S YIELD TO CLEMENTS lONIC
An Influential Cure Worthy of Careful Perusal.
The Oam of
Mrs, JOHN GEDDES.
{Reported for the Newtown Chronicle.)
When the tram cars pass by Enmore they
goeed with a rush down a gentle incline,
j drfcipg a park, over which the traveller
(arches glimpses of the distant sea. Pre-
the tram gives a sudden swerve round
a diSftd, apd the guard shouts, “Victoria
fiiladT” It was here our reporter descended,
almost at the door of Mr. Geddes, a well-
known storekeeper of the Marrickville
district. He inquired for Mrs. Geddes, who
wag, fortunately, at-home, yet who answered
bhS.reporter’s enquiries with some, little
Imitation, as she does not like publicity ; at
tfie same time her fueling of thankfulness for
unremarkable recovery from dire sickness
was so great that she thought it only, right
td; others, placed as she had been, to put
her-hesitation on one side, and make known
die true facts of the case.
“We were living at Bundanoon at that
iine,” said Mrs. Geddes, “and owing to
iome unknown cause I got into a bad state
of .health, continued to get worse and
worse, till my plight was quite pitiful.
This lasted for two years.”
“ How did your , sickuess affect you, Mrs.
Geddes ? ” asked the reporter.
“My most serious trouble was indiges-
tion, which at last came to such a stage
that I could not keep any food on my
stomach. Even when I tried to drink a
little pure water I should retch it up at
once ; and the water that came up when I
Vomited would be quite black to look at.
showing, I think, that my digestive organs
were in a shocking and deplorable state.
And yet all the tin e I had a strong desire
and craving to eat, and I dared not. . There
was ever present a feeling of oppression and
weight upon my chest, and a sharp pain
between the shoulders that pierced right
through my body, so that it filled me with
apprehensions that my lungs were affected,
and that I should soon be a victim to con-
sumption. My limbs were in a constant
tremor, my heart palpitating with distress-
ing throbs. Neuralgia came in my face
and forehead, and was so bad at times I
thought 1 should go out of my mind. And,
with my general collapse, my eyesight
suffered ; clouds of mist hid my sight when
I tried to use my eyes for any length of
time. The natural colour of my skin
changed to a deep yellow, like one suffering
from jaundice, and I would almost have
passed for a mulatto. I am sure that my
nervous system was shattered. I was
weak, hopeless, and out of heart, and came
finally (o that helpless condition that I
could not crawl as far as the back garden.
As it was, I utterly despaired of getting
better. I became very frightened, the least
noise upsetting me. I even dreaded, from
sheer nervousness, to go into the next
room.”
“ Did you not see a doctor or try remedies
of any kind ? ” enquired the reporter.
“ No ; Bundanoon, as perhaps you know,
is nine miles from Moss Vale, and the
charge made by a doctor coming that
distance in the country is quite beyond the
means of all but rich people. For my
indigestion I tried a number of the remedies
so much advertised as cures for that com-
plaint, but they did me no good whatever.
And In the same way I tried the local
remedies for the neuralgic pains in my face
and forehead without benefit, for I did
not understand then, as I do now, that my
neuralgia was only one of the symptoms of
a deeply seated malady and impoverished
blood.” • ■ t
“ But you found relief at last, did you
not, Mrs. Geddes ? ” . -t
“Yes; when I had got fairly tired of
trying one thing and then another, it
happened that we were talking to a friend
of ours at Bundanoon, and who, having
some medical knowledge and experience,
was much consulted in the district. He
advised me very strongly to try Clements
Tonic; and it was a happy day for me
when I did so. When I had bought a
bottle at the store, and commenced to take
it according to the directions, I found a
marvellous change for the better after the
first few doses ; and as I continued to take
Clements Tonic, all my troubles and pains
grew lighter and more easy, till mV good
health returned. Before I had finished
taking the first bottle I could eat freely
without vomiting or retching my food up.
The neuralgic pain, the heart trouble, the
impaired vision, the pain between the
shoulders, and the wretched, despondent
feeling, together with my nervous weakness,
all yielded and faded away before the
recuperative influence of Clements Tonic ;
and when I found what the remedy was
doing for me, I stuck to it, and persevered
with it, and long after I had recovered, and
felt quite well, I continued to take Clements
Tonic, to make my recovery doubly sure,
for, being well again, nothing was so dread-
ful to me as the thought of a relapse. So I
made sure to clinch the cure.”
“ And you found your cure genuine, f*i,
Geddes, and not a mere flash fn the pan -
enquired the reporter. • ,
“Yes ; and after that I had the best ot
health for several years, so I think my cure
was as genuine as a cure could be ; and you
may be sure I have recommended Clements
Tonic whenever I had the opportunity, and
this often for, as you see, my
husband and I are in business.”
“Are you willing that this testimony
should be made public ? ”
“ Yes ; I feel that it is only right for me
to do so, for it may be the means of telling
some sufferer, with symptoms like my own,
that a sure cure is waiting in Clement*
Tonic.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Maggie Geddes, of Cook-road. MarriCkville, in
the Colony of New South Wales, do solemnly and
sincerely deolare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios and con
secutively numbered from one to four, and that 1
contains and is a true and faithful account of my illness
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my lull
permission to publish the same in any way ; and 1
make this solemn declaration voluntarily, and without
receiving any payment, conscientiously believing
the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of
an Act made and passed in the ninth year of the
reign of her present Majesty, intituled An Act 10.
the more effectual abolition of Oaths and Affirmations
taken and made in the various Departments of the
Government of New South Wales, and to substitute
Declarations in lieu thereof, and for the suppression
of voluntary and-extra judicial Oaths and Affidavits.
* T L
Declared at Siarrichville this Ist day ot Ju >,
eight hundred g l *


GEO. ROE
WHISKEY
IS
BEFORE ALL.
SHIRTS.
Yor Station and Out-door work our Silk CsTRIPE
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, Brisbane, Q’land
His Excellency Earl Beauchamp
Has Conferred
PATRONAGE^
...0n...
fir. Fraok Scijior,
Of 246 George-st., Sydney,
Whom he has appointed Vice-Regal Chemist.
X
Avoid Indigestion. Eat
GRANUMA
Avoid Plague ? Drink
WHITE HEATHER WHISKY
Be Cheerful? Drink
BILLY TEA
The LUXURY of the TIMES. QUITE UP-TO-DAT’E
KHAKI BLEND TEA. *
Indispensible ! USED by all Loyalists !
THE BUSHMAN CONTINGENT CANTEEN
Of ALL Good Grocers and Sensible Storekeepers.
X
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WRLT€R BRRPLCY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Georgs Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION & FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Booms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
THE PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION I™
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Daniel O’Connor’s win in Phillip Division
followed five successive defeats in various elector-
ates of N.S.W. Spout, spout, spout again !
Again : An Australian has practically no
appeal to Caesar over the water where his life is
concerned. And if he cannot appeal to Caesar
against a death-sentence, why should he be allowed
to appeal where mere money is involved ?
Hawkesbury electors are excited about
‘the strong man” from N.S.W. Leg. Council
who threatens to demand their votes at next elec-
tion. A “strong man” wouldn’t think of the
Hawkesbury, with Federation and an attenuated
local Parliament imminent—unless he were lazy.
• S.A. Attorney-General Gordon claims an
Australian record in having represented an elec-
tive district for 12 years without once being called
upon to take the platform in defence of his seat.
In the interim Gordon has held office in four
Ministries, and was four times leader of S.A.
Leg. Council.
A perusal of British news paper-files shows
that the cable-news sent to Australia from the
London agency is mostly a copy of the newspaper-
headlines, which do not often represent the con-
text, but more frequently represent the vivid
imagination of the sub-editor. As witness the
utter divergence between local newspaper head-
lines and the facts narrated in the body of the
news.
Holder Govt.’s policy for coming session
was announced by Attorney-General Gordon last
week. Its main items are : —Household Suffrage,
Companies Law Amendment, Factories Reform,
Workmen’s Compensation, Early Closing, and
Land Values Assessment. This comprises most
of the reforms Kingston ineffectually tried to get
through the Tory Council for the last three years
of his term.
Some have thought that Sargood, the one-
eyed man who is king among the blind of Vic.
Leg. Council, has his eye upon Gippsland district
to make him Senator Sargood, but it is not so.
He will stand for the constituency which will in-
clude his present Leg. Council province, South
Yarra. But his finicking, small detail, comma-
and-semi-colon kind of ability will be lost in an
able Senate.
A batch ot eight Labor Js.P., all thorough-
going party men, and admitted nominees, were
sworn in the other day at
Broken Hill ; and it fell tr
Judge Gibson to do the
job—he of all the judges
rightly or wrongly credited
with the most utter de-
testation of Laborite poli-
tics. This is the third
batch of Js.P. practically
nominated by the Broken
Hill Trades Hall—a strik-
mg illustration of the
power of combination ; for
the Trades Hall there does
not directly represent more
than one-eighth of the male
adults of the district. As
to the members of the first two
lots, there has only once been a
serious allegation of bench-
packing against any of them, in
spite of gloomy forebodings when
the first was gazetted.
Of the eight members who
retire from S.A. Council this month
only one (W. A. Robinson) is a
Laborist, but three others—Bice, Gor-
don, and Russell—belong to the
Liberal party; the other four—Basedow.
Fuller, Stirling, and W ard—are
hard-shell Conservatives. Ful-
ler and Ward, it is hoped,
are marked for destruction,
but the Tories are spending
so much money on their men
that the other side looks for-
ward with fear to the elee-
tiors, which take place May 19.
Kingston's battle is being fought in his absence
by members of the Holder Ministry and the
Labor-party. His battle flag is Household Suffrage
for the Council as a step from the present £25 an-
nual rental franchise towards ultimate adult
suffrage, but, of course, the election has to be
fought on the present exclusive suffrage.
This should be a good time for reconsider-
ing the Sydney City Railway idea. A line along
the west side of George-street to Dawes Point,
with a view to an ultimate extension to North
Sydney, would involve the tearing-down of a good
part of the infected area. Surely the investigations
of the last few weeks have showji that no part of
Sydney could be better spared !
London Daily Mail (circulation a million
or so) re Windsor’s goodbye to the Queen, on the
eve of her visit to Ireland :
The day was gray and sombre, the sun which is wont to
shme upon Her Majesty was hid by the heavy clouds, but
there was a sense of dignified forbearance in the very
atmosphere. One felt that but for the presence of the
Queen the heavens had rained.
Steward ! Quick !!
The abolition of Bellamy’s (the official
refreshment-room) is to be once again attempted
when M.L. Parliament next meets. The osten-
sible reason urged for closing Bellamy’s is that it
doesn t pay, but were the House Committee to
order the abolition of the “ slate ” it would pay
well enough. Many members and ex-members
owe fine healthy scores, and carry about a strong
whisky aroma that isn’t paid for.
The delicate question of re-modelling
S. A. Parliament and reducing the number of mem-
bers was referred to a Parliamentary commission
last year, but the Holder Govt., when it in-
vited politicians to become members, met with re-
fusal m nearly every instance, and it is now pro-
posed to refer the problem to a popularly-elected
convention. The S.A. politicians who preach re-
trenchment in the public service are only human
when it comes to dispensing with their own ser-
vices.
From a Sergeant-Major of Rhodesia
Police :
Well, after the war is over, and the British flag is flying
in Pretoria, all the mechanics from Australia will have to
look for fresh fields ; there will be no more £3O and £4O a
month—it will ruin the country for ever.
1 hat’s it: Australia is fighting in the interests of
cheap labor. The very pick of her bone-and-
muscle is hiring itself out to do the sort of work
done by the fashionable N.S.W. amateur mounted
police of the big-strike time.
Already British Govt.’s offer to pay the
“ Imperial Bushmen ” ss. per day has aroused
British protest. When the £35,000,000 war-loan
came from committee in the Commons, on March
8, Mr. Healy gave notice of his intention to move :
That the principle of the loan be so extended as to en-
able the colonies to participate in the responsibility, so
that all the self-governing colonies who were so keen to
send troops to the war should bear the burden of paying
for them, and so that the Bushmen should not receive 6s.
a day while Englishmen, Scotchmen, and Irishmen were
paid only Is. 3d. a day.
Ashburton (W.A.), Seppy Burt’s old con-
stituency, for which Oom John Forrest’s little
brother David is a candidate, is the emptiest
electorate in Australia. There are seven resident
electors ; the 35 absentees on the roll mostly live
hundreds of miles away. It is practically im-
possible to get up a contested election in Ashburton
for want of enough inhabitants to nominate the
second candidate, and if there was an election
there would probably be only one vote altogether
—the returning officer’s. It is alleged that once
when Burt visited his electorate in the course of
an exciting and bitterly-contested walk-over there
wasn’t one elector in the constituency—the whole
seven had gone away on business or cow-shaking
or something. Ashburton has never had an elec-
tion. Neither have eight other W.A. constitu-
encies—-Bunbury, De Grey, Gascoyne, Irwin,
East Kimberley, Nelson, Roebourne, and Wei
lington!
SAME TRADES-DIFFERENT JARGON.
Volunteer Captain (the leading local butcher,
after receiving news of Cronje’s surrender ):
“ Sq —’ t’tion, shoulder—hie — mutton; ’t’tion,
:pork arms; ’t’tion—what yet — hie—laughing
at? Sq—right — hie—tripe, ’smish!”
The 27th has been a momentous day in
the history of the Transvaal Boers. On Feb. 27th
they won the battle of Majuba Hill. On the
same date three years later Great Britain signed
the second Convention which omitted all mention
of the word suzerainty, to the great joy of the
Boers. On 27th Feb., 1900, the battered remnant
of Cronje’s army came out of its burrows and
surrendered to Lord Roberts, and on 27th March
Joubert died.
A GEOGRAPHICAL PHENOMENON.
THE BOSS: “Oh! by the way, Mr. Figman, there was an old
correspondent of the firm in just now, arrived by last
American mail saw you through the window. and
recognised you as a young man who served a term in
Denver Gaol for embezzlement.”
NEW BOOK-KEEPER : “ Fancy! Well, really the world is getting
smaller every year, sir, isn’t it?”
Old, forgotten, back-number Strangways,
ex-Premier of S.A., rises up in England to urge
that Chamberlain will retain the Privy Council
appeal, and that he will “safeguard the State
creditor ” before introducing the Commonwealth
Bill. Now, how is Birmingham Joseph to “safe-
guard the State creditor?” All that can be said
is that he will be paid as heretofore if this country
has the money. Does Henry Bull Templer
Strangways want Barton deposited in the Tower
of London as a hostage for due payment of the
half-year’s interest ?
Ex-Premier Reid’s Advisory Unemployed
Board was swept away, and Premier Lyne’s Un-
employed Board now takes its place. The chief
difference, so far, between the Boards appears to
be that Reid appointed his Board nominally with-
out pay and afterwards surreptitiously put a sum
on the Estimates to pay the members, whereas
Lyne starts out by saying he will pay his Board.
Each Premier took care to have hangers-on of his
own on his Board, and neither sought Parlia-
ment’s approval either of the personnel of the
Board or of the emoluments of office.
Sydney Truth, in a leading article of
April 22, says :
But the existence of the Privy Council as a final appeal
court in Australasian matters is quite another affair. It
represents a real overlordship; and, to be frank, it is an
overlordship which, in the interests of equity and natural
justice, we should be sorry to see abolished.
John Norton’s first participation in active Federal
matters was at the Bathurst Convention, and his
qualification for a seat among the delegates there
was a document labelling him as the accredited
representative of N.S.W. Republicans.
Sydney Telegraph on the evils of Pro-
tection :
All our leading industries have something to lose, hot
gain, by protection. But Mr. Rose says, “ Each new in-
dustry enriches the country with another wealth-pro-
ducing asset.” That might be true, if it did not with-
draw labor from pursuits which were more profitable to
he community as a whole.
It is a very beautiful theory—but where are these
industries from which labor was “withdrawn?”
What is the name of that occupation which col-
lapsed or was crippled for want of labor because
Protection drew the labor away to new occupa-
tions ?
What treason, sedition, and sacrilege is
this ! Here is J. H. Symon, Q.C., the S.A. Fede-
ral Conventioner, _ protesting against the deifica-
tion of Chamberlain. “Why,” this old fellow
asks: “Why are we to assume that Mr. Cham-
berlain will not give way, and that Australia must ?
Why is he to be elevated into a modern Alex-
ander, who
Assumes the nod
Affects the God
And seems to shake the spheres ? ”
Nothing but disrobing and disbarring should meet
that case.
With a view to next Assem-
bly election the reform party on
the Westralian Goldfields is en-
thusiastically putting the names
of new voters on the roll, and the
Oom John party is enthusiasti-
cally shunting them off. The
reform party isn’t always too
particular about the qualification
of its voters if it can only get
them on, and the Oom John
party is ready and willing to
strike men off as “ dead ” though
they rise up personally to swear
to their own existence. A lot
of voters get off again so sud-
denly after they arrive that they
can hardly be said to get on the
roll at all. It would be more ac-
curate to say they jumped across
it.
“Arist”: Despite the pre-
sent Imperial hysteria the prac-
tical movement for an Empire
Federation is not even obscure
—it is not visible at all. The
Victorian Imperial Federation
League has an actual member-
ship of about half the number
of letters to its title, although
leaving the matter of subscrip-
tions entirely to the discretion
and memory of its members. At
the annual meeting the other day
there was an attendance of 16,
including press and public, des-
pite the well-advertised fact that
justices Holroyd and Hod gas
were to speak. Writer has seen
few funeral services that were
more inanimate and felt as he
stepped into the street that he
had left a corpse behind.
The Argus is in a rather
tight place over the Federal
tariff. It is against Protection
—in fact, it is against customs
duties altogether because they
hamper its importing friends.
It is still more against the extra
direct taxation that must come
if the duties are abolished. In
Victoria it could advocate the
abolition of the duties, and
thereby please the importers,
without saying anything about
the alternative direct taxation—
because there was no chance of
the duties being abolished. But
it is afraid to advocate absolute Freetrade in the
Commonwealth lest it should get it. So the Argus
proposes a “ moderately protective” Federal tariff.
N.S.W. Works Minister O’Sullivan sug-
gests that a few prominent Irish-Australians
should be commissioned to England to explain to
the British the sort of Constitutions Australians
possess, and to claim the same sort of Home Rule
for Ireland. First, there already are Irish-Aus-
tralians in the House of Commons and elsewhere
in England. Second, the Home Rule Irishmen
claim is not identical with any Australian Consti-
tution. _ Third, if such a commission were called
into being it would be rushed for picnic and self-
advertisement purposes by the Dan O’Connors
and O’Sullivans.
It is cabled that ex-Premier Kingston, of
S.A., says, in London, that “Australian Federa-
tion will help the grander Federation of all Aus-
tralia with the Motherland.” They all begin to
talk like this in London, worse luck. When the
titles are handed round on a soup-plate as usual,
the Federal delegates will presumably fall, also as
usual. The fall of the Australian politician in
London is like the story of a Woman with a Past.
It is always the same kind of Past and the same
kind of Fall. It has been the same Fall ever since
Genesis, when the serpent offered Adam a
K.C.M.G.-ship over the fence.
Be the awful risks that some of the anti-
Billites saw in Federation. S.A. Premier Holder,
when Treasurer in Kingston’s Administration,
used to tell of two men on a Westralian goldfield
who, having only a shilling between them (drinks
Is. each), intended buying one drink and sharing
it. A stranger entering the bar, one of them
asked him if he would have a drink ; he said
he and his thirsty mate had just had theirs.
The stranger accepted, and, after disposing of
their bob’s-worth, asked if they would join him in
a drink. They did, and when they were alone
again the man who had asked the stranger said—
“ Wasn’t that a clever thought of mine ! ” “ Ay,
’twas,” said his Caledonian mate, “ but, losh!
mon—what an awfu ’ resk ! ”
In Westralia you are not supposed to be
on the municipal roll unless your rates are paid in
advance, and the electoral roll is made up from
the municipal roll. Therefore you can lose your
parliamentary vote for not having paid your
municipal rates in advance. It is fair enough but
for one thing—the gang in power has ways of
getting at the rate-books, and of preventing the
gang out of power getting at them. Old George
Shenton is going up for re-election, and a very
large number of electors were invited to sign his
nomination paper. Many refused, and every one
of them whose rates were in arrear was objected
to within 48 hours. The gang-in-power says it
was only a coincidence. Westralia has more coin-
cidence than all the other Australias put together.


ESTABLISHED
1853
PALING’S
PIANOS
ARE THE
LEADERS
SEND or COME
"catalogues
and PARTICULARS
SOLD
ON
EASY TERMS
MANY HAVE enquired into and examined the merits of PALING’S
HAVE YOU O
PIANOS.
It is easy for us to say our Pianos are the BEST.
But it is easier to prove their superiority; you have only to see and
hear them and judge for yourself.
We look after the workmanship, you need not trouble about that, and
also see that the material is of the best.
TONE.
The BEST workmanship and the BEST material produce the BEST
Our prices will just suit your purse, whether you require a Cheep
Piano or a High-Grade one.
Come and Examine Them for Yourself.
We stock every kind of Musical Instrument, and Strings and Eittings
for same at LOWEST PRICES.
Band and Orchestral Instruments.
Violins, Cornets, Banjos, Guitars.
Mandolins, Autoharps, Accordeons, Flutes, etc.
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd., The Leading Music House, 338 George-st., SYDNEY.
BRISBANE and
NEWCASTLE.
BUILD A TERRACE
OF FINE HOUSES
WITH THE MONEY
THAT THE
m
National
Cash Register
. . . WILL . . .
Save and Make for You
in a Few Years.
You don’t understand why?
Well, you have only to investigate
To see how to accumulate !
FACT! STICK TO IT. IT’S MONEY!
PRICES ON APPLICATION to
Qational Cash Register Co.,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager.
n
The
Blue
Ribbon
of Australian cycling is the One-
Mile Australasian Cham-
pionship, which was decided in
Melbourne last week, resulting in
another win for
i»m!>UJu'J:l4A
through the agency of R. H.
WALNE, who has now succeeded
in winning this classic event three
times further demonstrat-
ing the Speed and Relia-
bility of these popular tyres.
First in 1888 . .
Foremost ever since . .
The Story of a
I-, Remarkable Ride”
Gives an interesting account of Arthur Richardson’s
Pioneer Cycle Ride around Australia. The trials and
hardships undergone by this plucky cyclist are told in
interesting style, affording entertaining reading to any-
one who obtains a copy, which can be done gratis, by
sending to any of our depots.
The Dunlop Pnsumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia ltd.,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
njcr.s.'W.
(|)ont depieteD.«?ii|.Co.,Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
The City Mutual [ifa
Assurance Society Ltd.
1879.^
HEAD OFFICE:
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and
Castlereagh-sts., Sydney.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in the Province.
GEO. CROWLEY,
MANAGER.
SCOTTISH
METROPOLITAN LIFE
Assurance Company Ltd.
Chief Offices for New South Wales & Queensland :
247 George Street c faciri^Brid s e st ) Sydney.
Directors: JAMES BURNS, Esq.; ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Life, Accident, Disease and their combinations.
Employers Liability and Public Risk Insurances
at Lowest Rates.
E. N. PARKER, Manager.
Ocean
A evident
and
Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
Fidelity Guarantees. Finp. Liiafoilty.
Accidents, Typhoid, diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Millan, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Pkaciiky, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
bourne, D. Clynk ; Brisbane, J. C. Hass all ; Perth, A. W
Farquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Queensland Smelting Qompy.
** (LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
"DUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and I
-D Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. Y. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
London & Lancashire
Fire Insurance Company.
r,l 13ERAL - - - PROMPT - - - SECURE
Security to Insurers, £3,122,250.
New South Wales
Branch :
95 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Directors— John See, Esq., M.P.; P. Hogan, Esq., J.P.
Robert Kerr, manager.
The Bank of Qirth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office ... 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. Ciiarker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL „, £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... •• • £lOO,OOO
,ReB hTde L rB abiUty ° f Share : 250,000 ... £350.000
CITY MUTUAL FIRE
Insurance Company Ltd.
Head Office: 95 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STRONG. LIBERAL. PROMPT.
Security to Insurers Exceeds £3,000,000.
Rates Lowest Current. Settlements Prompt.
IiOBERT KERR, Manager.
'—THE—.
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon J F Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
' ' C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,261,656.
Policies issued, 79, 765-assurmg £24,735,171.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,148,418.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, InLafeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses-equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
to
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, April 28, 1 p.m.
Tyrian, Saturday, May 5, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Gabo, Tuesday, May 15, 5 p.m.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Gabo, Tuesday, May 15, 5 p.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., April 28, 12 Noon.
■ Konoovvarra, Tues , May 1, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, May 5, 12 Noon.
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., April 28, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, May 5, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
OAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowne, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Carpo
booked through.
Cargo for all Ports received Daily.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Return Tickets interchangeable with Messrs. Huddart,
Parker & Co. or Messrs. MThvraith, M'Eacharn & 00.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King Street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb« Trustees, €*€c£itorS,
AND
Ag'OCV Conjpaov Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £160,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... 16,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.,
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch : 64 PITT STREET.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government .. .. 500,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. ..£3,000,000
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
ON and AFTER TUESDAY, 17th APRIL
instant the Business of the Sydney Branch
of the above Bank will be conducted in the
Equitable Building,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
—— —THE— ~
Commercial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4,800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (11 12/’991 £3.163,938 10 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. 11. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector: H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: John M‘Nall, R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Hishopstfote Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
SYDNEY - 273 GICOItGE STliEEl'.
Manager: John M‘Nall.
Assistant Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: Lindsay Deuohar.
Haymarket, Gosford 'with agency at Wyong), New-
castle; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in ISrisbane.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. .. 1,950,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,200,000 0 0
Reserve Liability 1,950,000 0 0
Total 5,100,000 0 0
Directors :
James Thomas Walker. Esq., President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnib, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.C.
Hon. Henry Normand MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Auditors 1
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T.ae Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the. Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
~ Z 1 " - ' Tenders.
Electric lighting plant.
Borough of Lambton, N.S.W.
FOR SALE by Tender, closing NOON 30th Inst, at
R. G. Watkins & Coy’s Office,
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Usual 10 per cent. Deposit. The Plant consists of
2 20 H.P. High Pressure Tubular Boilers
2 20 H.P. Compound Horizontal Engines
2 Thomson & Houstons Alternators and Exciters.
Switch Board, Transformers, Lamps and Fittings, com-
prising a Complete Electric Lighting Outfit.
• -•
By Order of the Mortgagees,
R. G. Watkins # Co.,
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
From whom all Particulars may be Obtained.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London. r
(Calling at Plymouth.)
,The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-olass passengers carried.
Dalf/ety and Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
GL AN D Tm ERICA
by the
' American & Australian Line
(A. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisoo, and any points cn route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
, For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
1 of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, George Sireet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Sireet,
I Adelaide; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N. D. L.” COMPANY-
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED from Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Fremantle to Genoa, Naples, London (via
Southampton), Antwerp and Bremen, via Colombo,
Aden, Suez and Port Said.
♦TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine and Civility. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORDDEUTSCIIER LLOYD.
OSTERMEYER DEWEZ & VAN ROMPAEY, Melbourne.
H. MUECKE & CO., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
Legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
OPALS • PEARLS
SAPPHIRES.
.^ —-
THE UNDERSIGNED ARE CASH BUYERS
...0F...
Opals, Pearls Sappl)irss
IN MEDIUM AND BEST QUALITIES.
FULL VALUE GIVEN.
a. benjamin aod sons,
285 a Little Collins St. Melbourne-
ic.:r NOT A GUESSING COMPETITION
A RECORD.—We sold
5000 of our Celebrated
WATCHES & CHAINS
at 6/6 in 13 months, and
now to universally ad-
vertise our Famous 4/6
Paraguayan 14kt. GOLD
CHAINS to Every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent’s or Lady’s) we will
Present on Pavment of
6/- extra the RAILWAY
WATCH, as illustrated,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy, it is
a JEWELLED, FULL-
DAY, PERFECT LEVER MOVEMENT,. SHORT-WIND
WATCH, wound and hands set from stem, strong and
reliable, same as used on the railways of Great Britain.
Gent’s are medium size, and Ladies’ a perfect little gem.
They give entire satisfaction ; that is why we send them
out on appro., and if returned within 14 days money (is
refunded. These are unprecedented terms. We make
this extraordinary'offer merely to circulate our PRICE
LIST, and to make ourselves talked about. The Watch
and Chain is sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of
10/6 and 6d. for postage.
H. POTIER & CO.,
24 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
mm
SUpplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
Express Passenger Service
TO AND FROM—
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOB MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
S.S. Wollowra (from
Melbourne), Tuesday,
May 8.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Warrego, Friday,
April 27.
Best & Cheapest Iloate to Goldfields,
Tickets are interchangeable with the A.U.S.N. Co.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S- IN. Goy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS-Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURKETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Full Particulars from the Agents:
SYDNEY- Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd., 10 Bridge Street.
MELBOURNE- A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd., Collins Street.
ADELAIDE B. W. MacDonald, Currie Street.
FREMANTLE and PERTH—D. Hamilton.
BRISBANE -British, India and Queensland Agenoy
Coy. Ltd., Managing Agents.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
times’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to E. TRELAWNEY, Agent, Exchange Corner, Pitt and
Bridge Streets.
Huddart, parker § Go’s Qine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Cirrent Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY!
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Duly qualified Surgeons carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
37 Pitt-slreet, Sydney.
m‘|lwraith,f!)‘Eacharn&Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight. Quotations, apply
M'llwraith, M'Eacharn So Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £7O,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN' TICKETS (First Saloon) between Inter-
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and 0.
steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent


The Bulletin acknowledges receipt of the
“ Newspapeb Press Directory for 1900.” This is
the 55th. issue of Messrs. C. Mitchells useful
annual, which is a complete directory of the whole
of the newspapers on the planet. Not only does
it give the startling information that the Bunga-
bidda Prokasseeka is published and distributed
free daily in Calcutta, but also that the Diabio de
Cundinmarca and Soerabayaasch Handelsblad
circulate in Begota in S. America and Sourabaya
in Java respectively, but it gives a terse account
of every town and hamlet in the empire that issues
a sheet and describes its surroundings and re-
sources. The publishers receive _ advts. for all
foreign papers, and to the advertiser the story-
writer, the artist, and all the great army of people
who do business with those who deal in printer s
ink the directory is worth a vast amount more
than the modest price of two shillings. Every-
thing, including the list of weekly, monthly and
quarterly illustrated and un-illustrated magazines,
reviews and papers, is in alphabetical order, so the
searcher can put his finger on the right spot as
soon as he opens the volume.
The Khedive of Egypt is a famous hater —
he never forgets an enemy, and when he conceives
a sudden and passionate dislike for anybody and
cannot get at that party, he rolls around the floor
biting to fragments the amber-and-gold mouth-
piece of his pipe. Kitchener’s calm assurance was
the curse of Abbas’s life, and when the machine-
like warrior started for Omdurman his nominal
ruler prayed long and earnestly that Khalifa
Abdulla might get his head and place it in a
casket before the Mahdi’s tomb. When the man
in Cairo heard of the victory there was a terrible
wreck among the chibouks and nargilehs and other
oriental smoking machines. When he heard that
the victorious general was to be dubbed Lord
Kitchener of Khartoum, he tore the stuffing out of
the upholstery with his teeth. Hardly had he re-
covered before an incautious Armenian secretary
informed him that the Sirdar was going to drop
the Kitchener, and be known simply as Lord
Khartoum. Then the Khedive flew at the secre-
tary and bit him—so goes the story, anyhow.
It was all very well for Mr. Mat Steyn to
speak contemptuously of his brother, the Orange
Free State President, but the fact remains that a
large majority of Free Staters were (and are) pre-
pared to follow Kruger’s warlike lead. President
Steyn’s comparative weakness is a small personal
matter in a big uprising. Apparently, he lacks
the moral support of his wife, in which respect?
has good cause to envy old Paul Kruger. Mrs.
Steyn, at latest dates, was visiting some relatives
in Aberdeen.
Bubonic Plague
m
REGISTERED.
Can bo Prevented
By Using:
ECKERSLEY’S
d|entholine.
All Chemists.
Large Size 2/8; Small 17-
Wholesale from
Australian
Co.
Constance Clyde has some vague and pro-
miscuous ideas about dress:
It is probable that many women will be driven to Matri-
mony this season owing to the buttoned sleeves in which
the ‘fashionable are beginning to encase and, as it
were tight-lace, to sausage-like proportions their well-
nourished arms. The spinster will be known by the
elongation of her neck due to repeated attempts to see if
the hundred-and-third button-the one at the north-west
corner of the left shoulder —is all that it ought to be.
The grasping sex’s hatred of appearing empty-handed is
shown by the fact that since reticules went “out ” woman
has taken to holding her lowest back skirt-frill in her
hand, the dress being evidently so built that only a
reasonable amount of lace underskirt is shown ; but that
does not prevent the frill-holder from looking somehow
or other like the kitten that has caught the long-chased
tail at last. If her blue or green frock evolves into white
at the shoulders and neck-band, giving her an appearance
as if her outer robe had slipped its moorings and was dis-
playing the chemisette underneath, then she is really
chic ; though why a woman should be chic because she
looks as if her clothes are falling off passes my compre-
hension.
Visitors to the old country
SOUTH
KENSINGTON
HOTEL
QUEEN’S GATE TERRACE.
LONDON. S.W.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
CONSIDERABLY ENLARGED. NOTED
FOR ITS COMFORT & CONVENIENCE.
ONE OF THE
MOST FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN LONDON.
mn
Whooping Gough, Asthma, Group, Catarrh, Colds.
T T in fha ciVlrrnnm will edve immediate
CRESOLENE when vaporized in the sickroom will give immediate
relief. Its curative powers are wonderful, at the same time preventing the
spread of contagious diseases by acting asapowerful disinfectant. "
less to the youngest child. Sold by all chemists.
Harm.
Cures While
You 51eep
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.,
Plough Court,
Lombard Street,
London.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
I*o DEFY COMPETITIOIST.
WINES m “ D Z uh °* J 0J SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
FOR
Ora Siumc*
always use
CANNON ITE
SMOKELESS
CARTRIDGES
unequalled for
Pattern, Penetration, Velocity.
Once Tried- —-Used Always.
CASHMORE GUNS, SCOTT’S GUNS
GAME BAGS, GUN CASES,
CARTRIDGE MAGAZINES.
The Best Assorted Stock in Melbourne.
Hack ham’s Dog and Cattle
Medicines.
SOLE AGENTS—
(mesh isos, i net. cm.
107 to 113 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne-
And George Street,
Sydney-
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blown out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716J4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
NEW MANHOOD!
Electricity Poured into Your
« Rftrfy While You Sleep!
Dr. CLARKSON’S ELECTRIC BELT
ILL fill your nerves with Electricity
every night while you sleep,
and take
Pr. CLARKSON’S
RE-INVI6ORATOR
during the day, and in ten days you will
feel the dawn of new life in every organ
of your body. All the nerves will be
charged with renewed energy, and your
heart will beat stronger with the gladness
of youthful vigor. To men who are
Nervous, failing in Vitality, Sleepless,
Despondent, Losing Memory, Wasting
the Vigor of Manhood, Dyspeptic, Weak
in Stomach and Kidneys ; who notice a
general collapse of all Vital parts; to
such men Electricity and the Ke-In-
vigorator as I apply, it will bring happi-
ness, and health. Its effect on Weak
Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Its touch is Magnetic.
'<3
'.V
ms
O
(%
m
N"
as
«’/
JsSP
§zih
>gm I™ raflf
aHLm
i'll A*/
PU
IT PILLS the blood with the fire of
1 youth, and gives new vim and
confidence. While it is on the body,
the nerves teem with vitalising warmth,
and within a few weeks the full vigor
of manhood is restored.
MY ELECTRIC
BODY BELT
has been brought to the highest state
of perfection by twenty years’ study
and experiment. It is unlike any of
the old-style belts, and is warranted to
be stronger than any other body appli-
ance made. It is guaranteed for one-
year without any expense for renewals;
or repairs.
PRICE : ELECTRIC BELT, 10/-.
Re-lnvigorator, 7/6 Bottle; 3 Bottles£t
AND
Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
If you are Sick or Weak, try my New Method at once. It will save you years of misery and many Doctor’s bills. Call if you Can. If not, let
me send you my Pamphlet full of Truth for Men who Want to be Strong 1 .
Call or
Apply:
Xj
CUT
RATE
Cut-Rate Price List Post Free on Application.
Corner ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.


THE EASY RUNNING MASSEY-HARRIS
is a perfect Bicycle at a fair price,
and the best at any price.
FBciories-ToTOnt o New South Wales Headquarters-Sydney
, A^ heß 7 Ueihoa r m - s Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide. 7
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application.
A postcard to the Dunlop Tyre Co. will bring in
return “The Story of a Remarkable Ride.” This little
book is brimful with exoitinginoidents that happened to
Arthur Richardson during: his lone ride around Australia.
No cyclist should miss this opportunity of obtaining a
copy, which will be posted gratis by the Dunlop Company
upon receipt of application.* F J
The care of piles by the new “ Cannalin ”
treatment is fully described in the pamphlet
Piles, and How to Cure Them,” by Albert
Sharp. Copies, with testimonials, sent free to any
colony from the depot, 257 George-street, Sydney.*
A weird story is reported in the papers
from Newcastle, N.S.W.’s city of coal-dust. A
lady walking home about 11 p.m. had her attention
drawn to a female in a back lane surrounded by
about 10 or 15 men. The lady’s husband arrived
shortly afterwards, and, accordingtothelocal paper,
took in the situation at a glance, and instead of
rushing for immediate aid proceeded to watch
events. He watched the toughs leave the group
round the woman in twos and threes, and as they
left, others, apparently on guard, took their places.
A i ter a while the gentleman’s blood boiled over
and rushing, down the lane he threatened the
offenders that, if they didn’t go away at once (and
thereby get out of the way of arrest and dodge the
law) and allow the unfortunate woman to depart
at once “he would send for the police. ” The gang
wanted to fight, but finding that this very strange
and lenient gent could use his fists it fled. When
the larrikins had departed with impunity into the
darkness, the woman tremblingly told how she
had come from Maitland with a female friend
how a strange man had taken her to a wine-shop
where her memory failed, and she only awoke to
find herself being cruelly and brutally outraged by
the gang in the lane. The policeman who came in
response to a telephone message promptly arrested
her and locked her up for being drunk and dis-
orderly, and next day she was fined 5/- and sent
home to the Chinaman with whom she lived.
And nothing more has been heard about the
alleged 15 or more ruffians who are said to have
committed the assault. It is a curious tale all
round.
The cheek of the British Government in claiming
to alter the Commonwealth Bill in comparatively
unimportant respects is the more marked when we
reflect on the immensely more important regards
in which it might be altered for our own sakes,
and would be altered if the operation could be
performed quickly and effectually. For instance,
it would appear that, in the haste of the last day
or two of the Convention, and in a laudable desire
for conciseness, the clause relating to taxation in
the section enumerating the powers of the Fede-
ral Parliament was finally framed in such a way
as to appear to give to the Federal Parliament the
rather startling power of passing a comprehensive
law prohibiting any particular kind of taxation,
e.g., a land-tax, from being imposed in the various
states. This has not hitherto been publicly
noticed, and, of course, was far from the intention
of the framers or the wish of the people. Yet,
when the people of Australia would not, even
for the sake of removing a blot like that, tolerate
any further delay in the passing of the Bill, Cham-
berlain, in spite of all his flapdoodle about the
relations of the colonies and England, must come
forward with a wrecking proposition on infinitely
more trivial blots, if they are blots at all, and in
the interests of a few practically alien bank-part-
ners in London.
At the recent Melb. send-off to Capt. Wollaston
and Lieutenant Mann, of the Vic. Bushmen’s Con-
tingent, Best, one of the Jonahs of the Turner
Govt., let fly a balloonful of extra-effervescent
flapdoodle about the Fag—the heir of all the ages,
the Pax Brutallica, the glowing loyalty of their
young guests, the wealth and crimson threaderie
of the dear old mother countree, &c. With a re-
freshing disregard for the fitness of the “things”
• PJ e ? ent > young Mann gave an interesting analysis
of the feelings that prompted him to volunteer.
He frankly repudiated Best’s right to speak for
his motives in the matter, said that it was mainly
the spirit of adventure that was sending him to
Troy or Syracuse, coupled with the desire to see
and take part in important events rare of occur-
rence, and after hinting that Capt. Wollaston’s
opinions were not unlike his own in the matter,
concluded by saying that he would never forget
that his word of command as an officer might re-
sult in sending to annihilation better men than
himself. Needless to state, Mann’s speech was
not reported in the full accounts of the shivoo
given in the daily press.
Going to the share-list of the African
Chartered Co., John Burns shows how many
highly-placed Englishmen were concerned to drag
Britain into the Transvaal war for the sake of
dividends. He finds that eighty “peers, com-
moners, Imperial and Consular officers, equerries,
and society bankers ” have held since 1892 180 000
shares, with a top price of £1,500,600 and lowest
of £050,000. Among the names he selects are the
following:—
The Duke of Fife .. 8,850.
The Duke of Abercorn 8,600
Lord Farquhar .. 8,000
Lord Gifford .. ..10,000
Lord Rothschild . .10,00 )
Leopold Rothschild .. 7,546
Earl Grey .. .. 9,000
Lord Penrhyn . .10,000
Lord Alwyne Comp-
ton, M.P 5,000
“It would be interesting,” he ends, “to find out
the holdings in each of the seventy-four auxiliary
companies of which the Chartered is the parent *
Lord Roberts’s report on the Spion Kop
bungle is all in accordance with news wired to
London at the time by Bonnet Burleigh, Winston
Churchill and other correspondents. It is, in fact,
strong testimony to the smartness of the smartest
pressmen who watch the game in South Africa.
h rom first to last Sir Charles Warren was chiefly
■to blame. Given a certain plan of advance by the
commanding Buffer he preferred to go “on his
own ” in a great measure, and it was his departure
from the plan that necessitated the so-called
capture of Spion Kop. This proved disastrous
for the simple reason that he put far too many
men on the job. The top of the mountain was
crowded with unfortunates who could find no
cover. A third of the number might possibly
have held the position with comparatively little
loss of life, but as it was the Boers blazed away at
the mob of unprotected ones and killed about 250
of them outright. The slaughter didn’t mean that
the Kop was untenable. It meant that the
large majority of the dead and wounded had been
foolishly sacrificed. Buffer knew nothing of what
was happening. Warren took no measures to
maintain communication with Colonel Thorney-
croft, the man in command of the Kop holders
after General Woodgate had fallen. At nightfall
when Warren was trying to make up his mind as
, what *0 do next he sent a newspaper man
> Winston Churchill) instead of going himself, to
discover Thomeycroft’s “ views * on the situation
and Churchill found that Thomeycroft had already
made up his mind to get the troops away from the
place where they had been overwhelmed by their
own numbers, so to speak. Warren disobeyed hi 3
general s instructions. Thomeycroft was to blame
for what Roberts caffs a “wholly unauthorised
assumption of responsibility.” Buffer—who ap-
pears to be a wise but slow-thinking commander—
al *owed Warren to overrule him for a while.
When he came along and saw the
mess that Warren had made Buffer practically ad-
mitted his fault by stating that he would take
personal control of the next attempt to relieve
Ladysmith. And seeing that Buffer eventually
got right through, without losing as many men as
Warrens failure had cost, he might have been let
down more lightly in Roberts’s report, many
people will think. Nevertheless it is a hopeful
sign for the British cause that Roberts has begun
to make unpleasant remarks concerning important
people in South Africa, for there are some strange
stones told of how sundry colonels and majahs
have been treating the gory business in a pick-
nickian spirit.
Sir Thomas Suther-
land, M.P 5,300
Sir Donald Currie,
M.P 5,000
Lord Wantage .. 6,000
G. Beith, M.P. .. 1,200
Rochfort Maguire . .49,000
Lord Mayor Newton.. 200
K
*
*
K
*
m
nm
sled Sdird Quality dproeket.
Found oi{ly on
1900 Model
Red Birds.
as no part of °lhl steel plates and blocks We make them ourselves,
longer. They’re ri/ht because right at thf start* reaB ° n BlrdS 6aSier End laSt
and Guaranteed Che Goold Bicycle Co v Ctd., £
Factories
Brantford, Canada.
Hgents - everywhere.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
Australasian Branches: 64 King-st., Sydney, Head Office 11
261 Coluns-st. , Melbourne, Vic,
Edward-st. Brisbane, Q.
Victoria-st.. Wellington N.Z.
Australia.
- ' "AM
‘ We will take your old machine in exchange at a liberal valuation.’
SPORTING NOTIONS.
i A u ,^ umn m Qet, just over, shows a heavy
loss through the almost total absence of sporting men
from the country and the other provinces. The plague
scared them—it scared even Ike.v Mo of Victoria, who is
very much afraid of Death—and no wonder. Local odds-
vendors consequently did great business. All through
the sport reached a high standard. Clever handicapping
hid winners in a remarkable manner. Finishes, as a rule,
were close and exciting. Parthian topped the three-year-
° a ' va -' khat left no room for question but both he
and Mernwee could have been better. La Carabine was
the best of the older nags and appropriated the big
*v, ni \ 6S , e '[ en f 'host convincingly. Ex-galloway Bega was
the best hurdler of the lot. Malster and Haulette stood
out among the two-year-olds, with Hautesse, Kinglike
and Isa running them very close.
• • • •
Second Steeplechase at Randwick, Saturday,
sprung a surprise on punters generally. M.L. crack Nor’-
\Yest went out a 2 to 1 favorite, with his stable-chum,
Crusade, at 7s. S.A. nag Arctic fell, breaking both
shoulders and was destroyed. Nor’-West had 12 12 up,
and looked fit to carry a lot more, but came to his knees
in second round and parted with his rider. Orusado, at
this time, was far behind, but he subsequently moved up
and got to the front 200yds. from home. Winner’s fencing
and pace, in view of his display on Easter Monday, proved
an eye-opener. F
H.S.”: The recent A.J.C. meeting seems
clearly to have demonstrated that Parthian was Merri-
wee s superior a.t all distances. But to the writer it was
apparent that the Derby and Cup winner was stale, and
void of all dash. The ideal of training is to have done
sufficient work and yet have the recuperative powers
unimpaired—a reserve of natural vigor to draw upon.
But Mernwee was obviously overdone, probably not
having recovered from the severe preparation he under-
went m the spring. The writer, however, expects the
horse soon to regain his old brilliancy if he is allowed a
proper rest. Merriwee’s defeat in the 3 miles was owing
doubtless to there being nothing in the race to make
pace enough to extend the brilliant La Carabine, so that
she was able to come at the finish with her meteoric rush
and score a win before Merriwee could be got all out
Anyhow La Carabine was, prior to that win, by far the
best handicap mare in Australia. A kind goer, honest, a
great stayer, and the most brilliant finisher in the land.
Of the two-year-olds, Malster, Haulette, and Kinglike
stand out prominently; the one of the three most likely
to improve with age being the strapping son of Wallace—
Kinglike, a horse singularly reminiscent of the prints of
the famous Eclipse—his head, neck, and body being
carried, as it were, all in a horizontal line h
* • • •
Striking instances of reversals of form were
urmshed at recent A.J.CJ. Autumn meeting by Hautesse
wi A on Mosfc - vn - o Th , e former, who ran a bad second
last in Champagne Stakes on second day, simply spread-
eagled almost the same field in Easter Stakes on third
£?ir A v. ,ICe - Mostyn who was served up specially warm
for Highweight Handicap on St. Legerday, ran absolutely
nowhere ; but, on concluding day of the meeting, created
much surprise by her foremost position in Rous Handicap,
suffering defeat only by a head. Surely the slight
difference in the weights could not be wholly responsible
for this in-and-out running. Cyanide’s double win, too
was unlooked for, owing to her recent inglorious display
at Hawkesbury. It is, therefore, a matter of no small
wonder, as per usual, that Ikey Mo came out on top.
It looks now as though La Carabine might have
won last Caulfield Cup but for being treated as the
stable s second string. W. R. Wilson made the same
nustake in 96 when Resolute started for the big Caulfield
at 7to 1, and Merman went out at a long price The
fancied one got a fine show to win, but he failed miser-
ably at the finish, whereas Merman, whose jockey had
been looking after Resolute all the time, beat his stable
companion handsomely. For last year’s Caulfield Cup
the impostor, Scorn, was backed down to 5 to 1 whilst La
Carabine stood at three times the odds. Burn rode
Scorn and took him to the front what time La Carabine
was shut in among the middle division. Scorn proved to
be a coward when asked to struggle, biit La Oarahine
came along with a late rush and finished fourth, as Mer-
man had done three years previously.
* * * *
The Carbine mares improve with age. One of
these days perhaps, Model will win a good race for
JDonald Wallace.
* * • •
Plague scare materially affected Autumn sale of
yearlings at Randwick last week. The absence of
prominent Vic. buyers was much felt. 79 lots were put
up and 77 sold, at first sale, for 5297 gs.—an average of
about 69gs. Owner of Malster (Mr. R. Orr, Ballaratf paid
the highest figure (450g5.) for an exceptionally handsome
colt by Grand Flaneur from Dovecote. Sale was continued
Wednesday, when 73 lots brought 7150 gs. —a big figure
due to the presence of fresh blood among buyers; par-
ticularly the Victorian, Mr. W. L. Bailey, who secured the
highest-priced youngster, a half-sister to Spiteful by Haut
Brion (imp.) by Spite (imp.), for 700 gs. Mark Thompson
got the Gossoon-Trieste filly for 500 gs. 1
* * * *
The famous Chipping-Norton (Liverpool, N.S.
Wales) stud has been scattered. Best of the lot were
brought under the hammer in Sydney on Friday. There
was a big crowd, but few bidders. Nineteen brood mares
4 fillies, and 3 stallions were submitted, and realised
5555g5. Mares fetched 4360g5. of this-an average of
229£gs Stallions brought 720g5., and the fillies 4?sgs
Highest figure (650g5.) was given for Trenton mare
Archeress, dam of Parthian, and in foal to Grand Flaneur
Mr. Sam Hordern was the buyer. Dovecote (dam of
Lotos), with colt by Grand Flaneur and again served by
that nag, went for 600 gs.—the—the bargain of the week Her
yearling colt, also by Grand Flaneur, realised 450 gs 0 n
previous Tuesday. Another Trenton mare, Gloria was
sold for 450 gs. Queen Agnes (dam of Ace of Diamonds)
by Grand Flaneur by Dame Agnes (imp.) by Hermit went
for 310 gs. Patron’s sister—Patrona—and a filly foal by
Seneschal cost 275g5. Eight Trenton mareswere tliusparted
withfor276sgs. 15gs. secured old Terara. Stallion Seneschal
foaled in 1892, brought 350 gs.— one of the cheap things of
the sale; and Gentle Hermit (by Bill of Portland)and
Be uilieu (by Grand Flaneur) were knocked down to an
Indian buyer.
* * * *
Grand Flaneur died at Chipping Norton
N.S.W., stud farm, Monday week of rheumatism. No
more successful nag has ever been known in Australia
Grand Flaneur was never thoroughly extended, hence it
is impossible to say how good he really was. Sprint or
distance, or weight within reason, made no difference
to him. His wins included A.J.O. and V.R.O. Derbies
St. Leger, Melbourne Cup, Normanby Stakes and Cham-
pion Stakes. Stakes gathered in by him totalled £7930
He has sired winners of most big events, among them
two Melb. Cups, Sydney Cup, V.R.O. Oaks, Ascot Vale
Stakes, Epsom Handicap, V.R.O. Sires’ Produce Stakes
A.J.O. Derby, Caulfield Guineas and Cup and V.R.C St’
Leger. Bravo, Oobham, ’Frisco, Dainty, Ohesham, Dare
Devil, Ruenalf, Straightfire, Patron, Patroness
Parthian, and many others owe their existence to
him. Grand Flaneur was bred by the late Mr. E. K. Oox
at Fernhill, 22 years ago, and was bought cheap as a
yearling by Mr. Long. He was by the mighty Vattendon
from First Lady (imp.) by St. Albans from Lady
Patroness by Touchstone’s son Orlando.
• » * »
Said that Grand Flaneur colt Parthian has run
his last race in Australia and will go ’Ome with The Tola
Sweetheart and Fifeshire (a crack 3-year old) per Nineveh’
Owner “ Tom” Muir follows in the Ortona a day or two
later.
* * * *
Silver-hue, driven by Dr. Slate, showed a fine
piece of trotting in the two-mile trot at Forest Lodge,
Sydney, last Monday. Starting 30sec. behind, the mare,
moving in beautiful style, fairly mowed down the field,
and ere a mile had been covered took command. Silver-
hue paced her two miles at a 2.331 gait, although the
doctor eased her down for the last mile. Huon’s daughter
seems to be about the best mare now trotting on Sydney
tracks.
J-C. (Clermont, Q.): You can get Day’s book
on the horse from any bookseller advertising in The Bul-
lbti n ; price, 10s. 6d. Sardonyx died at Quirindi (N SW )
m Feb., '95.
* * » *
Ladies’jumping events at N.S.W. Agricultural
Soraety s show last week provided good sport. Miss Cox
and Miss Baker tied for the riding-over-hurdles event.
The judges were m a quandary and called upon the riders
to change nags and have another go at the sticks ; both
did well, but Miss Cox was plainly the better and got the
P" z ®: ladies high jump was exciting. Previous day
6ft. 2in. had been negotiated, but they couldn’t top 5 7 on
D , eS , m 0 ( ) Irs ‘. Klliot 1 t U P) w °n. Nags that
failed at 5.3 went for third prize and Marano (Mrs. Elliott
up again) got the verdict at 5.6 J. Andover (Mrs. Stace)
was second, having cleared 5.5. Mrs. Elliott’s work in the
saddle during the show was splendid and judges recom-
mended her for a special blue ribbon.
* * * *
A queer piece of judging at Sydney Agricul-
tural Show was the awarding of the trotting-in-saddle
blue ribbon to the Moree horse Chieftain. Chieftain
broke, skipped, and all but went round on three legs for
the last part of the journey, and was distanced by Judo-e
Huon, who trotted in perfect style, but, to the surprise of
the onlookers, Chieftain got the prize all the same For
the prize given for trotters which had not won at the
meeting Prince Harold was the only horse entered to
oppose Chieftain, other owners, no doubt, standing out
owing to the erratic judging in the saddle event As
might have been expected champion Prince Harold made
a " exhibition of the Moree horse, which was called off
after the first round.
* # * *
Maize-husking contests at N.S.W. Agricultural
Society’s Show were a novelty. Each competitor had 100
cobs scattered carelessly before him. Seven experts com-
peted on Friday and J. Gardiner (Windsor) holder of the
record (4min. lOlsec.), won in 4.12 ; J. W. Farlow (Free-
man’s Reach) was second in 4.13 J, and F. Gardiner
(Hawkesbury) third in 4.24. Saturday’s event was for
P e " Z er 4 l°- w• t- Farlow(Wilbe, -force) took the money
is si t u Reach > was second
(5.18 2-5) and T. Herne (Nowra) third (5.20£).
Otto Cnbb of M.L. is the biggest pug draw-card
south of the equator Metrop. A.O. (Sydney) Friday last
he i n Very ', na ",?L 1500 afc 10s -’ 5s ’’ an( * 2s - 6d- to see him
and Bananaland “Snowy” Sturgeon fight. Excitement was
at fever-pitch from end to end of the go, which was the
toughest and bitterest fought in Sydney for years. It was
&"«?• b : Vr h a “ , the wa y- Cribb’s weight was given as
10.2 and Sturgeon’s at J-lb more. Cribb had Snowy on
the boards twice in the initial 3min. for 9 and 7sec. as the
result of a savage rush and a right cross. Betting opened
at 5 to 4 on Cribb, but 2 to 1 was offered while they rested
Hurricane work characterised every round. Several times
Cribb sagged at the knees, rocked in his tracks and looked
on the verge of collapsing, but an iron jaw kept him up.
oturg’eon sent in left and like piston-rods with pounds
of powder behind them, but still Cribb stood up Thrice
he went down before irresistible mishaps, but was on his
feet instanter. Then it was Cribb’s say, and the Queens-
lander got a parlous time until he in turn flew signals of
distress and appeared a “ moral ” for the Maorllander.
Such unflinching work has rarely been seen in a boxing-
ring They would now and again stand toe to toe and
punch as if their very lives depended upon the speed
number, and weight of the blows delivered. Cribb caught
a very wicked one on the mouth once and his head went
back as if knocked off his shoulders. Neither man’s face
would have taken the prize at a beauty-show after it was
all over ; Sturgeon s was in much the worse plight. The
end came in the eighth round when, during a wild rally
Cribb stood off and swinging the left promiscuously (as it
appeared) reached Sturgeon’s chin heavily, strildngit with
the side of the hand and dropping him like a rock The
failing man s head struck the boards very hard thus
assisting the effect of the knock-out StJrgeon
lay there many seconds after the referee declared Cribb
the winner. Up to the end it was either man’s light.
Cribb was lucky to get that punch home, particularly as
almost at the same instant Sturgeon landed a paralVser
over the heart which brought up the whites of the Maori-
lander s eyes and caused him to reel across the ring
* • • •
“ Old Timer ” : Saw the Cribb-Sturgeon fight
Friday night last, and marvelled at the capacity each
evidenced for taking and giving. Sturgeon is the best-
built and quickest man we’ve had in Sydney for many a
day Two pluckier fighters never doffed a shirt. Each
had bad times in turn, and takers of 2 to 1 on Cribb could
have laid-off at evens. Had Oribb’s knock-out swing
been the smallest fraction of a second later, Sturgeon’s
punch over the heart would have left him (Cribb) at the
mercy of the Bananalander ; in fact, for a moment or two
it looked as if both were going out. It was as much as
Cribb could do to stay on his feet; nothing but the ropes
kept him up while the enemy was being counted out. If
the same two met again Sturgeon’s chance would be good-
he hits very clean and fights more cleverly than Cribb’
whose extra strength proved too much. Had Sturgeon
used his right less frequently in the earlier stages he
might have done better. Cribb’s corner thought it was
all over on three different occasions, but a gainer man
never stood than Otto. He had £5O to £2O on himself
before operations began. Said that Sturgeon didn’t vet a
fair chance in training through lack of funds ; butt all
the same, his party tipped him as a cert., and Charlie
Dunn, who knows what’s what, planked the “pony” side-
wager down. Herb. M’Kell challenged the winner before
the fight began. Cribb must be able to foot a fair
cheque now.
•
Ebon-hued Ike Stewart and half-caste Cape
Malay Charlie Weiner had their third tussle at Golden
Gate A.O. (Sydney) Wednesday night last week and drew
a big house. Ike won on both previous occasions, but
only after a bitter struggle ; this time he won again in
four hot rounds. Coal-skinned Stewart never fought
better. Fact that Peter Jackson looked on was perhaps
responsible. * 1
* • -j
Latest colored comer m the pug. game (Joe
Thomal) went under at Sydney Golden Gate club on Sat-
urday night to Melbourne “Young” Nathan, who
brought the darkey down in the 18th round. Up to the
10th things were extremely lively, and Thomal seemed a
sure winner, as Nathan’s condition was none too good •
but the black’s heart failed him a bit—and ultimately he
went out to a solid thump on the point.
* * * *
Editor Bulletin. I have only just been shown
a par in Bulletin, 27/l/’OO, in which “Crank” says—
Herb. McKell is not taking any chances at the ‘ willing ’
game, if there’s a possible get out. ... We saw that here
when challenges from Ned Burden and others were
ignored.” As this is only one of numerous similar
insinuations which somebody has been making against me
in your columns, I hope you’ll let me say a word in reply
First, as to the “willing” business, what about my
numerous severe battles, including my 15-round defeat of
Bill Jenning—described at the time as one of the goriest
fights ever seen ? Then, as to the Burden affair, I enclose
you a cutting from Sydney Referee, 8/8/’9B, by which you
will see that, though I declined to let the Golden Gate
people make use of me for a £2O purse, I put up £25 with
the Referee for a match with Burden ; and that mv
backer further offered, if necessary, to put up a purse
sufficient to bring us together. But the other side made
no more sign. These are hard facts, all recorded in the
sporting press ; and, as my record shows me to be a
fighter all out, when required, I think it is hard to have
insinuations to the contrary levelled at me merely
because, as a man of business, I decline to go for what will
not pay me if I win.— Herb. McKell.
* * * ,
The plague has scared Vic. tennis-players from
coming to Sydney, hence this year’s interprovineial
match, fixed to eventuate yesterday and to-day (Satur-
day), has been abandoned. N.S.W. reps, are in great
form, Rice particularly. Sydney clubs one-set handicap
fell to him ; he accounted for Irving and Wright by a set
J® !we each, and got away with the final from Reading
(6—3) to whom he owed 15—1. Vic. holders of doubles-
supremacy have been matched against Gaden and Rice
(N.S.W. doubles premiers) on Sydney Cricket Ground
to-day (Sat.).
. Vics-A-A. A. brought off a complimentary meet-
ing on Melb. Cricket Ground last Saturday in honor of
Stan. Rowley, en route ’Ome. The champion competed.
Giving Shea half-a-yard in 75, he was beaten on the tape,
but subsequently beat both Shea (second) and Moir (third)
less than aVard!' ’ ll R ° Wley ’ 3 “ dwnta *» wa «
• • • •
Cabled from Christchurch that the first of two
f ep - for 01 ympian Games at Paris was
; Suther ' and (erst of Melb.), who beat Chalmers,
umlepd al qnH th" d miles) were negotiated, the first
unpaced, and the second paced by single machines
S ,?,^ ler l a 'V 1 f ffo L h ? me i‘ 11 both - Same rider, wire says, also
accounted for M.L. champion Reynolds over same jour-
nies and under like conditions. J
in,^ nte ; r P r ° v i nc i bowling-matches created some
interest in Sydney last week. Trouble re personnel of the
mHpnt eam precluded N.S.W.’s best combination being in
evidence, while plague-fright and little local jealousies
simdariy affected the visitors. At Redfern (Tuesday),
Victoria won by 14 points, notching a majority in every
rink but, one. Victorian double-barrelled champion (“ Im
dnudual and Champion of champions ”) premier Pullar
2 n 1C h» a v i (Sydn T ) “- Bradbury, do Jn by 33
, bl^ e ® t surplus in any rink. At Balmain
(Wednesday), both teams (altered in positions and to
some extent, personnel) dead-heated at the close of the
victorefor N r^ n w 2s w— A deciding head resulted in
N fv^'J! inmnB: Blde had majorities in two
rinks. Howe (N.S.W.) got 30 to Slatter’s (Vic.) 14. James
(\ ic.) scored 15 more than Akhurst(N.S.W.) Final of the
rubber played on St. Leonards(North Sydney)green(Thurs-
day) saw matters at high tension. Visitors led all the way
and won by 6-95 to 89. Fifteenth-head total showed I
m.T.iAi 0 ? ° f 18 „ ln , favor of Victorians, but N.S.W.
buckled-to so well that 15 points were lopped off this
during the next 5 heads, and the last 5 of the 25 was
entered upon with 1 ictoria leading by 3 only ; this, how-
ever, was doubled ere the finish. N.S.W. lost a heap of
ground in the early part, as at the termination of an
hour s play they were 28 behind. Howe’s rink again ap-
propriated the honors on N.S.W. side, compiling the only
Quarter 2 Ri£w ’ and t u at a S ainst champion Pullar’s
07 r ß 'F fc ? X< C® 3S shown b y Victorians was Wax-
man 527 to Youngs 20. The ’cross-the-Murray men op-
posed a combined team from St. Leonards, Redfern Vic-
l°on a w a «c ? n t Ash xT eld Clull3 at Ashfl eld, Saturday, and
won by 80 to i 5. None of N S.W. men (that day) had
previously met the Southerners. One home rink (biggins’,
L r ar l 8 ! W r en ,m doWn bad, y. being beaten by Cud-
f„°iL^ IC '’ 28to 5 ' ■ r le Vlslt ‘ng players, ’tissaid, are known
in their own province as the “ plague team.”
, ” : V ictoria and N.S.W. teams tied at the
close of the stipulated term (25 heads) at Balmain on
Wednesday and home side won the deciding head by one
point. Remarkable that exactly the same thing occurred
on the same green and under the same conditions in ’B4.
rwlr'u W , a /, S ,'‘? red ln a l nanner without parallel. Mr.
Cruickshank (Balmain club), a left-handed trundler, was
Vr J! e< f Ullon , f° a deac * block on either hand about
erect •« , Jaok ’ AH! 1 ’ well -built man, he stood
''A n d his wood right over one of the “ blocks ”
and drew the shot in a marvellous fashion. Only one
man in a thousand would think of playing that wav and
to score 06 m a hundred essays would such a bowl be likely
* * * •
Tim'd and fourth rounds of N.S.W. Individual
Bowling Championship tourney were got rid of on Satur-
hay- Biggest surprise produced was the downfall, by 22
10, AJ ast year ’, s bolder, Mr. 1”. J. Josephson, who
thought this season’s medal a “cert.” for him. Groth did
trie trick. So far he has put three ex-champions—in the
persons of Howe, Moran, and Josephson—out of the com-
petition. Strong, Groth, Kondio, and Martin are the four
left in. Writer likes the chances of lvondio and Groth—
former (a sterling, consistent old player) for choice.
Way e rley (N.S.W.) bowlers left their mark in
Adelaide last week. Though much dined and feted they
S.iri h ° mc^ am on Tuesda y-«i to 57—and next day
rubbed it in with a margin of 63 to 48. J
*' * * m
, V 1 s * tin £ V)C - bowlers met Waverlev
(83 dney) club on Monday and won by I—B6 to 85 First
mterprovincial purely ladies’ match (1 rink) played in
N.S.W. occurred that day and the home team won with
but ito the good Writer doesn’t take to ladies as
bowlers, and won t till someone invents some more suit-
able costume for them.
• * . *
During the Easter holidays Massey-Harris
riders have been winning the best events in all the pro-
vinces. The Druids’ great £3OO Wheel Race, in Melbourne,
resulted in a win for W. O. Jackson from scratch, with E.
Wilksch second, and Frank Beauchamp third. At Christ-
church (M.L.) G. Sutherland defeated E. Reynolds in the
to decide the M.L. representative
at the World s Championships at Paris. The best country
events were also appropriated by silver-ribbon riders.


J Snjof(e
INSIST ON GETTING DERBY.
i
o
<s:
o
t:
i?
o
/
7
s , %
X
n
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY COMPANY
187 Pitt-street, Sydney 187 Pitt-strefet, Sydney
(directly opposite Civil Service Stores).
Novel, Tasteful
Lucky Opal Heart Ring.
Any size. 16s. 6d.
Elegant Lucky Lace Pins, with Chain
and Bean dr Heart, 7s 6d. Single
Pin, ss.
and Inexpensive
Brag
Novel Racquet Brooch, with Two
Pearls, 15s;
Single Racquet, with One Pearl, 10s 6d
James Pain & Sons’ Imperial Royal Atlas Brand
. . . PRIZE LONDON . . .
FIREWORKS! FIREWORKS!
QUEEN’S BIRTHDAY, 21th MAY. 45 Years before the Public QUEEN’S BIRTHDAY, 24th MAY.
MYERS & SOLOMON, Sole Agents, 42 Market Street, SYDNEY.
!D*~ Send for Price List -
Once a year Providence expresses a dis-
taste for militarism in Yic. by dropping heavy
rain upon the Easter Encampment. No matter
when Easter may fall, the rain always comes down
at the same time, and this year, owing to the extra
warlike arrangements, the Bushmen’s camp at
Langwarrin was positively flooded out, and the
muddy, disconsolate Contingent had to trek to
the Agricultural Show Ground at Elemington on
Easter Monday.
As an illuminant, Acetylene gas has no equal.
Carriage and buggy lamps are being sent in to Messrs.
Brandt Bros., lamp manufacturers, of Sydney and Mel-
bourne, for alteration, to show this powerful light, in
shoals. The firm obtained four first prizes at the Royal
Show, and represent the Imperial Acetylene Gas Coy’s
patents, of London, for house lighting. Primus Kerosene
Bath Heaters, which instantly heat a flow of water up to
110 degrees Fahr., are working on their premises.*
One who is well acquainted with the
northern Transvaal Boers suggests that General
Roberts will be presently in such a tight place that
Buller may have to go to his relief. Apart from
the capture of Cronje’s crowd, achieved with a
loss of many hundreds of men and 10,000 horses,
Roberts’ “successes” have been more apparent
than real. Anyway, his cocksure condemnation
of Buller, received by the British War Office a
month before it was published, looks ridiculous in '
the fight of the fact that two big disasters hap-
pened to his (Roberts’) army soon after he had
posted his dispatch, the first disaster being a loss
of 7 guns and three or four hundred men within a
few miles of Bloemfontein, his headquarters. A
report from Buller on the recent mistakes of the
Commander-in-Chief would be interesting.
An anti-war Canadian quotes from a letter
written by a Captain of the first Canadian Trans-
vaal contingent, and rightly says that its shameless
brutality should make honest Canadians blush.
This is the extract —
We had a pleasant little fight on New Year’s day about
36 miles from here, which distance we covered between
2 p.m. on Sunday, Dec. 31st, and Jan. Ist, at 11 a.m., and
though we killed 14 Boers (of which one went to my
credit, through the neck) and wounded as many more,
my little force of 100 men lost none. Some got away,
others fell with pleasing little holes in them, and when
“ Fix bayonets ! ” brought out seven or eight white flags,
the Boers who remained, 42 in all, threw down their arms
and quit like dogs. I would have let the beggars have the
bayonet at that, only Col. Richards, of the Queenslanders,
stopped us.
“ Honor,” says the writer, “to Col. Richards, of
the Queenslanders, who arrested the Canadian
Captain and his men in their bloody work, mis-
taken though he may be in the cause in which he
is engaged. Colonel Richards at least had not the
head of a fool and the heart of a murderer.”
The rising star of English money-lenders
has been snuffed out at the early age of “ dirty -
five.” Isaac Gordon is dead. Gordon —bom
Bradski, or some such name—was an impecunious
Russian Jew when he came to England a dozen
srears5 rears ago. He got a billet as clerk to a money -
ender m a Midland county, and finding the busi-
ness ridiculously easy for any man with a hook
nose and a hard heart, “Gordon” started on his
own account. Of late years he traded under
various aliases in all the large towns, but his head-
quarters were at Birmingham, where he suddenly
expired last month. Many of Gordon’s grandest
transactions came to light in the London Bank-
ruptcy Court, notably the case of a long-suffering
person who produced the usurer’s receipts for
£14,000 odd, paid on account of an original loan
of £5OOO. There was a small but growing balance
still outstanding when the victim filed his schedule.
Isaac Gordon appeared as a principal witness
before the committee appointed a while ago by
the British Parliament to enquire into the
Shylockian system, and his bright, candid manner
of owning up to the ruin he had wrought stamped
him as one who might have lived to be truly great.
Arthur Griffith (Fellow Aust. Instit
Patent Agents, and Member Patent Law Assoc.,
Washington, IJ.S.A.), 169 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Patents secured and Trade Marks registered
throughout the world. Tel. 2898.*
Brisbane is having a special anti-bubonic
cleaning-up, and the usual telegram states :
The amount of rubbish, old clothing, bedding, &c., dis-
covered by the cleaning party in the streets of Brisbane
came as a revelation to the authorities.
It is really wonderful how little the authorities
seem to know.
WHAT IS “D.C.L.”?
“D.C.L.” is a brand applied to whisky, and is a
guarantee of genuine merit, of good value, and of
a pure and wholesome spirit. Ask for “ D.C.L.”
(Black Bottle) Sootch.*
It is estimated by a House of Commons
Committee that to pension the deserving poor
aged 65 and upwards would cost, in the United
Kingdom, about £12,000,000 a year. This is the
deserving poor only. Truly there must be an
appalling amount of poverty in Britain, for on
this basis about one person in every 40 must be a
deserving pauper over 65 years. Britain spends
about £24,000,000 a year in poor-rates.
“ Oxygen and its Administration ; A few
facts for Physicians ” (received from Messrs.
Felton, Grim wade and Co., of Melbourne) is a
neatly illustrated little pamphlet dealing with the
subject of oxygen gas treatment of many pulmon-
ary affections —pneumonia, asthma, &c. Also it
has something to say about diseases of the blood
and circulation, and emergency cases, such as
asphyxia, morphia poisoning, &c. Messrs. Felton,
Grimwade and Co. supply the booklet free upon
application, and it should appeal to the feelings of
all medical men, not to mention the more advanced
section of their diseased patients.* *
Business Announcements.
“A TRIP TO THE RACES.”
(Human Races).
“IMPERIAL” Bicycles for 1900 just landed,
fitted with Westwood steel rims and Dunlop tyres.
Agents wanted where not already represented in
Australasia. Write for catalogue. Buy your bicycle
from the factory at factory prices.
A few Second-hand Machines fitted with new tyres and in
good order, all of well-known makes. A post-card will
bring you a list. “Duck” brakes and carriers will fit
any bicycle. Oil and Gasoline Engines for launches,
electric lighting, pumping, cordial factories, printing and
general power, from 1 h.p. to 50h.p.
J. F. McDermott and Company,
Sole General Agents in Aus. for “ IMPERIAL ” Bicycles.
Central Depot—37 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
rOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ Ellis’King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 60 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor
GEO. W. ELLIS.
m
n
mn
‘PERFECT’
BICYCLE, I
AS THE NAME IMPLIES,
HAS NO SUPERIOR.
The DOMINION’
AFFORDS THE BEST VALUE
AT A LOW PRICE.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCY should be made to
FRANK CRIMLEy
Sole Pistrib6tii)g Ageot
for Australasia . . .
IMPORTER FOR WHOLESALE
Bicycles, Accessories, and Materials,
263-265 Clarence Street, Sydney .
FIVE GRAND - -
BATTLE PIECES
Suitable for Teaching.
Published by
ALLAN & CO.,
MELBOURNE.
The Relief of Ladysmith
Descriptive of the brilliant resistance by British
troops under Sir Geo. White (whose words, “ Thank
God ! we kept the Flag- flying! ” will become as
famous as Nelson’s “ England expects that every
man this day will do his duty”), and the final
relief by the forces under General Sir Redvers
Buller.
Arranged for the Piano by Landon Roberts.
PRICE 2/- ; or Posted 2/1.
Macdonald’s March
By Paul Belmont.
(Dedicated to General Hector Macdonald.)
One of the brightest Marches of the day. Frontis-
piece beautifully lithographed in colors.
PRICE 2/-; or Posted 2/1.
The Transvaal War Fantasia
(A GRAND PIANO SOLO),
Descriptive of the present war. Arranged by
Garnet Garfield.
PRICE 2/-; or Posted 2/1.
Sons of tho Sea March
By Paul Belmont.
Founded on Felix McGlennon’s World - famous
Song. Illustrated Frontispiece.
PRICE 2/-; or Posted 2/1.
Soldiers of the Queen March
By Paul Belmont.
Founded on Leslie Stuart’s Grand National Song
PRICE 2/-; or Posted 2/1.
*»* Obtainable at Music-sellers throughout Australasia, or from the Publishers, ***
Allans (jo. proprietary [td., 276> 278 Jl lll " s Surhe.
The Colonial Bank of Australasia limited.
THE FOURTEENTH REPORT of* th© DIRECTORS
OF
The Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited,
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Fourteenth Ordinary GENERAL MEETING, to be held at the Bank,
126 Elizabeth-street, at Noon, on Monday, 30th April, 1900.
REPORT.
The directors beg to submit to the shareholders their Fourteenth Report, with a Balance Sheet and Statement of
Profit and Loss for the half-year ended 31st March, duly audited.
After providing for expenses of management, interest accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current, tax on note
circulation, and making provision for bad and doubtful debts, the net profit, including the balance brought forward
from last half-year amounted to .. .. •• •• , •• •• •• £15,449 14 0
From which must be deducted additional interest at the rate of one-half per cent, per annum, on
the deferred deposit receipts, in accordance with the terms of the arrangement of 21st
June, 1895 .. .. •• •• •• •• •• •• 2 » 360 8 7
Leaving a balance of .. .. •• ••
Which the directors propose to apportion as follows, viz.: —
Dividend, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum on preference shares
To reserve fund
Balance carried forward ..
£13,089 5 5
6,080 17 7
6,000 0 0
2,008 7 10
£13,089 5 5
STATEMENT of ASSETS and LIABILITIES of the ABOVEMENTIONED BANK
That the assets and liabilities of the bank on the 31st March, 1900, were as follow
BALANCE SHEET of the COLONIAL BANK of AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED for the Half-year ending March 31, 1900.
Dr.
To Proprietors’ paid up
capital, viz. : 31,184
preference shares paid
in cash to £9 15s. .. £304,044 0 0
77,278 ordinary shares
paid in cash .. .. 98,392 6 0
Reserve fund
Notes in circulation..
Bills in circulation _ ..
’Government deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£33,198 12s. 7d. ; bear-
ing interest, £308,899
19s. 3d
Other deposits —Not
bearing interest, £714,-
557 16s. 7d. ; bearing
interest New De -
posits, £577,564 Bs. 6d.
342,098 11 10
1,292,122 6 0
Bearing interest—Deferred deposits ..
Interest accrued thereon and rebate on
bills current
Profit and loss • • ••
402,436 5 0
10,000 0 0
116,716 0 0
111,673 16 6
1,634,220 16 10
857,087 4 9
23,465 17 1
10,449 14 0
£3,165,949 14 2
Contingent liabilities, as per contra .. £21,804 12 5
Or.
By coined gold and silver
and other coined meta1£523,272 14 0
Gold and silver in bullion
or bars 8,901 12 11
Cash at bankers.. .. 120,982 19 2
Victoria Government in-
scribed stock, Metro-
politan Board of Works,
and municipal deben-
£7BB,42s 4 8
Beal estate, consisting of—
Bank premises at cost to new bank .. 189,507 10 1
Other real estate at valuation .. 86,604 3 2
Shares in other companies at valua-
tion 18,915 12 4
Advances, exclusive of provision for
bad or doubtful debts .. .. 1,762,688 7 4
Bills of exchange and promissory notes
discounted, not included in above,
exclusive of provision for bad or
doubtful debts 317,750 15 9
Chattel property at valuation (written
off £372165. 3d.) 2,058 0 10
£3,165,949 14 2
Liabilities of customers and others in
respect of contingent liabilities, as
per contra
£21,804 12 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To current expenses (including salaries,
rents, repairs, stationery, &c.) .. ..£20,931 4 1
~ Banknote tax .. .. 1,014 18 4
Transfer to reserve fund .. .. .. 5,000 0 0
~ Balance 10,449 14 0
£37,395 16 5
By balance brought forward £1,617 7 11
~ Gross profits for the half year, after
allowing for interest accrued on de-
posits, rebate on bills current, and
making provision for bad and doubtful
debts 35,778 8 6
£37,395 16 6
RESERVE
FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
£lO,OOO 0 0
£lO,OOO 0 0
By balance brought forward £5,000 0 0
~ Transfer from profit and loss .. .. 6,000 0 0
£lO,OOO 0 0
Price 6s*
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Rude.”


“ A.G.”: Went once to a new-steamer
shivoo, and after the _ usual refreshments we
adjourned to the engine-room to inspect. Here
one man indulged his curiosity to such an extent
that soon he was dancing in agony at one end of
the room, while at the other his most useful finger
was lying on the floor. In endeavoring to explain
how it happened, another of the party excitedly
grabbed tne captain by the sleeve: “Look,” he
said, “he was standing here like this, and he
poked his finger in like this” . Then there
was a shriek and the excitable one bolted up the
ladder, leaving his mashed finger waltzing round
amongst the cogs.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on pave
27 of this issue.*
W. O. Hodgkinson is to edit the new
Queensland official mining journal; and he
will really be an editor who knows all about
it. The veteran has had hard luck and
long illness, but The Bulletin is glad to know
he’s still going strong. No Australian of his age
(52), or of any age, has a fuller life behind him.
Coming here as a middy in 1851, he was in charge
of Tarnagulla (Vic.) goldfield a year later; was
sub-editor of Melb. Are in 1859, with the Burke
and Wills expedition in ’6O, second in command o.
M ‘Kiniey’s across-Australia expedition in ’62, and
led the Q. expedition to the Diamantina in ’75. In
his busy life he was alsoQ. rfoldfields-warden, M.P.,
Cabinet Minister, and a dozen other things; but,
personally, always “a white man.”
HAVE YOU
AMD LEG
with Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
press your Anger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
walk. You may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
advise<Lto submit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
CURE YOU. I don’t say perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured.
Send at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid’s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
Hands, Tumours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
Price,ln Great Britain, 1/Rd. per box. Prepared by
AGBERJ’ 73, Farringdon-street, Rondon, England.
Agents : EEEIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
green lal el on each box. (Regd. copyright).
ladies’ Tailoring
Season— l9oo.^
HAVING- made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what has now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Bady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming Mai I boat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
TSL ELLIS’S
(Registered) Simple Foot Gear.
SEND
2d. STAMP
FOtt TAPE
MEASURE.
•
CATALOGUE
POST FREE
ON
APPLICA-
TION.
B
■\ITITH an ordinary tape measure determine the width
W r ound the joints AA. round the instep I!B, round heel
CO, round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and
width of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities —a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to. If you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bootmaking is unknown,
has decided to Supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.).
Note the Address:
W.J. ELLIS & CO.,
Sydney . .
686 George St.,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
BLACK OR TAN
FRENCH CALF
LACE OR E.S
POST FREE
.TO MEASURE
14/6
ARE YOU ABOUT TO FURNISH
You cannot do better than try HALL’S. They have the Largest
Stock in Australasia. Have you got one of our New Catalogues ? If
not, call or write for one. Posted Free. 72 Pages, 500 Illustrations.
Just Published.
HALL’S
HALL’S
HALL’S
HALL’S
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, in rich Genoa Velvet, with silk plush borders, viz., Settee,
2 Arm Chairs, and 4 Carved Chairs, for 8 Guineas. Thirty Drawing-room Suites to
select from.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, very strong, covered in best American Leather; 6 Padded
Back Chairs, Large Couch, and Pair Easy Chairs. 6 Guineas. Ditto, in real Maroon
Leather, 10 Guineas.
BEDROOM SUITE, Polished Pine or Walnut Color; Wardrobe, with Plate-glass
Door and Deep Drawer; Duchess Chest Drawers, with Glass attached ; Marble-top
Washstand, Towel Rail, and Chair, £6 15s.
FULL-SIZE HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD, Brass Footrail, Double Wire Mattress,
and Set Best Wool Bedding. 4 Guineas. With best Kapok Bedding, £4 17s. Gd.
A. HALL & COMPANY,
The Universal House Furnishers,
561, 563, 565 & 567 George-st., Sydney (Brickfield Hill).
Goods Stored Free until required. Country Orders Packed Free. Leave Tram at Liverpool-
street for Hall’s. Close—Saturday, 9 p.m.; Wednesdays, 1 p.m.
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
GAN OBTAIN
BY USING
T*
m
&
&
V
ffi£
£*9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
IMPORTANT j
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
'obese Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, Brisbane, and Perth.
&
ART^
JEWELLERS.
90 KING ST., SYDNEY,
WATCH^
IMPORTERS.
5 Lovely Diamonds,
from £lO to £4O each.
Small Stones, from £3,
£4, £5, £7 10s.
OUR LATEST PATRIOTIC BROOCH.
Solid Gold Sword, with Red, White, and Blue Enamel
Union Jack Flag, 21s.
9c., 17s 6d, 20s, 25s ; 15c., 355,
40s, 455. Silver, ss. With
Monogram, 2s 6d extra.
Solid Gold, with any Name or Motto, and
Raised Wishbone, Bell or. Heart and
,■ Ghain, 10s fid.
S 3
£22
£22
Solid Gold and Real Amethyst, 8s 6d.
Three Patterns.
Solid Gold Two-Heart and Lover’s Knot Brooch,
set with 1 Diamond and Ruby, 15s.
GOLD CRESCENT
BROOCH.
Set with Lovely Pearls or Pearls and Turquoise
27s 6d ; smaller size, 17s 6d.
Unique Parisian Pearl and Turquoise Brooch,
set Silver Gilt. Special Value, 5s 6d.
m
n
Heart Brooch, Gold-
plated on Silver, set
with Parisian Pearls
and Turquoise, 7s 6d.
mn
5 Lovely Opals.
10c., 425, sm. size 35s
15c., 50s, ~ 45s
11c., 555, ~ 50s
m
2 I >iamonds and Opal,
Ruby, or Sapphire,
18c. Gold, 75s
Solid Gold and 3
Opals, 25s ; Solid
Gold and 1 Opal, 15s.
New Gold Bar BROOCH, set with real
Amethyst. Special value, 12s 6<L
Gold Curb and Heart Brooch, ss.
Without Heart, 4s.
Solid Gold MOTTO BROOCH, 11s 6d.
Also, same style with Souvenir, Regard,
Good Luck and Mizpah.
Gold-plated on Silver, set with 13 Parisian
Pearls. Entirely New, 5s 6d.
New Two-Bird and t Gold Brooch, 8s 6d.
Solid Gold, 14s pair.
With any Monogram.
Real Amethyst or Topaz
or Obsidion Links. Extra
Strong, ss, smaller 4s pr.
Any Name or
Motto, 9c., 12s 6d,
15s, 20s ; 15c., 20s,
2256d,2756d; 18c.,
21s, 255, 30s.
2 Diamonds and 3
.Rubies or Sapphires,
from 55s to £lO.
Solid Gold and Real
Opal, 17s 6d ; .
with Ruby or
Sapphire 20s.
Business Announcements.
CHEAP AND FASHIONABLE TAILORING.
CG. HATTE, of King-street, Newtown (near Sydney,
• N.S.W.), has recently made great additions and im-
provements to his Tailoring Department, which is now one
of the features of Iris extensive business. He receives regu-
lar shipments, from his Home buyers, of all the newest and
most fashionable goods, and has one of the smartest cutters
in the colony. Everything is made to measure on the pre-
mises; a perfect fit is guaranteed, and patrons may rely on
every satisfaction being given. Self-measurement forms
and patterns sent free bypost. Hatte’s suits of Indigoserge,
all-wool tweeds, and sergerettes (with extra pair of. trousers
given in) for 42/- are the marvel of tailoring and the talk of
Australasia. For 50/- Hatte makes a suit of tweed or serge
fit for a prince. Inspect or send for patterns of his new
woollens, comprising vicunas, West of England, Scotch and
Blarney tweeds, at 57/6. and 65/- ; the great value offered.
Hatte makes a smart Chesterfield overcoat from meltons,
vicunas, and Venetians from 45/-, and the new paddock
coat, with full back, side vents, crescent pockets, silk-faced
and velvet collar for 55/-. Hatte’s speciality is in dress-
suits, starting at £3 3s, made of purple dye elastic coating
with silk-facing. For excellence of material, perfect fit,
latest fashion, and superior workmanship, Hatte is un-
equalled, whilst his charges are at least 30 per cent, under
those of ordinary city tailors.
D.S.MAI R
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2/6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
T>EST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
- u wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
&tp0771/ia4WS
MIGHTY
( REGISTERED )
freshly prepared from H?e Famous African KOLA NUTS
Vj ' c COLA ACUMINATA )
A SUSTAINING &
STIMULATING TONIG
WITHOUT INTOXICATION
The Greatest Pick-me-up & Appetiser known,
ft makes you, eat and makes you strong
ft cures Indigestion. —-
WHEN OllT OF SORTS & a intjk rfAipiC"
IT SAVES DOCTORS BILLS
all Hotels & refreshment rooms wmSoofl WATre6‘f>cr9 , *“
ALL CHEMISTS 2.4 AND A 4 Per Bottle-
-037 George vs£ Nearly opp O Post Office
\s\i GlfTfcß on $CfQ\ BlffiEß.
Medical.
HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
. . MARVELLOUSLY SUCCESSFUL. .
For all forms of DEBILITY, LOSS of ENERGY,
etc. Has CURED Thousands for the BLOOD,
SKIN, NERVES, RHEUMATISM, etc.
‘WORDS OF WISDOM.
This Free Book about
the Homoeopathic Treatment contains nearly 40
pages of useful information, and will be posted in
plain cover absolutely free. Write to-day.
Address:
The Irving Homoeopathic Co.
Comer Hunter and Bligh Streets,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
nm
Rtipttire
COr?d^
WHEN we say “RUPTURE CURED”
’' we mean it, for it is a fact that
thousands of cures have been accpmplished by Dr.
Pierce’s World-renowned ELECTRIC TRUSS during
the past twenty-five years. There is nothing else like it
on earth ! It does the work! Have received so many
letters and testimonials that we hardly know what to do
with them all. If ruptured investigate at once. Our
prices are reasonable, but not cheap. We make no dis-
counts. “Dr. Pierce’s” is THE Truss, and you cannot
be happy till you get it.
You can get our “ BOOKLET No. 1” for nothing by
calling, or it will be sent to you on receipt of a stamp.
It tells all about this TRUSS. Address :
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co. y
620 Market St., SAN FRANCISCO., U.S.A.; or
160 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.


Ni"RaSSn)GSS€i)’S Alfalii)€ Herbal Remedies.
More marvellously Successful and Effectual than ever.
Have been before the Public for over 14 Years.
Cured Thousands for the Blood, Skin, Nerves, Rheumatism, Liver, Piles, Kidneys, etc.
A SPECIAL REMEDY EOR EACH COMPLAINT.
The Alfaline Remedies are composed solely of Pure Herbs, and do not
contain Mercury or any other Mineral Drug.
Weak Nerves, Health and Strength Restored Most Effectually
a Great Cure at the ivanhoe jj ow 0^ a j n “Alfaline Guide to Health’’—Free.
Mine.
f*r. C. J. A. NIELSEN.
A Living Witness oi the virtues of tho
Aifalinc Herbal Remedies.
Kalgoorlie, September 12,1898.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l feel it my duty to write and tell you how
your remedies have cured me.
1 suffered great agony with WEAK NERVES and
RHEUMATICS, and I sent for some of your ALFALINE
REM EDI ES, which completely cured me, and I have felt
as well as I could wish, although it is two years ago.'
also tried your ALFALINE UNIVERSAL PILLS,
whicl completely cleared my skin and purified my blood,
and I am now using your ALFALINE HAIR RESTORER,
whic >■ has thoroughly cleaned the scalp and made the
hair grow again, and it has gradually turned the hair
from being grey to that of its original color. I have also
recommended your Remedies for a number of different
complaints and I have never known them to fail, hut to
do all that was claimed for them. I have great pleasure
to recommend these remedies to all sufferers, as I know
they can he depended on.
You are at liberty to publish this as well as my photo.
Yours truly, C. J. A. NIELSEN.
Soiatica Cured.
Parliament House,.Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir.—l can truthfully assert that since using your
Eucalyptus Oil and Alfaline Rheumatic Pills I have ex-
perienced an immunity from my attack of sciatic. I have
recommended the Alfaline Remedies-to a- number of my
constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of rheumatic attacks. With kind regards,
I have the honor to be, yours truly,
E. W. O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A. {
Nerves, Liver, and Kidneys Cured.
175 Young-street, Annandale, Sydney. 1
-To Herr Rassmussen. . • .
Dear Sir,— Having suffered for some time from a com
plaint of the liver and kidneys, for which I took medical
.advice, with no effect, I one day was fortunate enough to
pick up one of your books in the bush. I. was.thus in-
duced to try your Alfaline Remedies, ana their effect was
magical. I have often since recommended them to my
neighbors, all of whom have felt the oenefit as well as
myself. I cannot express how glad lamat my recovery,
as several doctors had given me up, as my husband can
testify.—Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. H. SMITH.
Twenty-Two Years’ Nervousness Cured.
211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.
Dear Sir. Your wonderful Alfaline Viuiiiuy Pills com-
pletely cured me of an awful case of nervousness Of
twenty-two years’ standing.—Yours very truly,
J TOM ATKINS.
Blood Disease Cured.
Sth. Murwillumbah, Jan. 4, ’99.
Herr Rassmussen, Sydney.—Dear Sir,— Having just
finished the course of Alfaline Blood Pills and Alfaline
Liver and Kidney Pills, I have pleasure in stating that
they have effected a complete and permanent cure, al-
though previous to trying them I had Lried three different
doctors without effect. For the benefit of those who may
be suffering in a similar manner, and as a proof of ray
gratitude, you are perfectly at liberty to publish this short
note in the interest of suffering humanity.—Yours Grate-
fully, THOS. KING. Witness— Frank Gribert.
Just drop a letter into
the first Letter Box,
addressed to
Herr RASSMTTSSEN,
547 George-st„
SYDNEY,
or to any of his Inter-
colonial Branches.
O'SsT OP PI
iiHtfH "1 iTTi 11 i^ii 1
This FREE BOOK con-
tains a vast fund of
most useful and in-
teresting information,
as well as numerous
Testimonials from
cured and grateful
patrons, with full par-
ticulars necessary for
self-cure, and all de-
tails regarding the
scope of the Alfaline
Remedies.
A LFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s fld.
ALT ALINE BLOOD PILLS
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASESI. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. ani' P D « u . b j e
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury. Ordinary Course, 235. Od. Special Powcitui uou
* Hnursp* 435. 0(1.
ALF ALINE
Liver Kidney & Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, tionstipaition, and Weakness. Price lsod.,
35., and 65., posted.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cur* for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all'complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening: the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance,
; BOXES, 6s, ; Courses, 235. 6d.
IMPORTANT
WARNING
Patrons of Herr Bass-
Herbs anywhere.
***** —
Wtmm
m
;
jzerr Kass)nussen f Up-to-Date Herbalist.
anyone of imitating the
I Alfaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALEALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE lOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSHIUSSen.
Letters requiring special privacy may simply be addressed thus
H.R., Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney,
but letters containing money should be registered.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE HELD STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL, and Remedies
and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover. Any particulars desired sent
APVK€ FREE.
Mr. THOMAS MUDTMAN,
The well-known Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth-
sfcreet, Sydney, states, on oath, how his
shattered nervous system was completely
cured and restored.
Statutory Declaration.
I, THUS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 327 Elizabeth*
street, Sydney, in the Colony of New South Wales, do
hereby solemnly and sincerely declare as follows:
Whereas I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the NERVES, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried
several doctors and many remedies, but all of no a\ail.
Whereas I, as a last hope, obtained some of Hf,RU Rass-
MUssen’s Purely Heiibal ALFALINE VIIALI I V PILES,
which 1 hereby solemnly and sincerely declare COM-
PLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and all hough
this is over five years ago 1 have remained well ever singe,
The ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true.
Declared at Sydney this 29th day of April, 1898.
THOMAS MUDIMAN.
CHARLES COLLINS, Justice of the Peace.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
nut most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills- Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for t oughs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifler—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is ;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile l*owder—Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline internal Pile Powder-Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palateable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler—A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Electric Belts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal -and
Kidnev Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office • 547 GEORGE ST., SIIDIIGy,
AND IMPORTANT BRANCHES AS FOLLOWS ;
n
91 Lambton Quay
N.Z., WELLINGTON
PERTH, W.A. Eay-street (next Royal Theatre)
COOLG-ARDIE Bailey-st. (next Freemason Hotel)
KALGOORLIE Hannan-st. (next LindeH's, Jeweller)


TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Cope Bros, and Co., of Liverpool, donated
(through their Svdney agents, M. Rutty and Co.)
1600 tins of tobacco to the recently-departed Bush
Contingent. It was Cope’s, by the way, who
recently tackled a hasty order for 2 tons of Caven-
dish (to be in 3oz. cakes, packed in kegs of 351 b.
each) for the British troops in Africa, and had the
order executed and dispatched in 8 hours !
Wool, —The N.Z. Loan and Mercantile
Agency Co. Ltd. reports that, owing to the inci-
dence of the Easter holidays, business during the
past week has been at a standstill, and there is
absolutely nothing new to report. It has been
decided not to hold any public auctions this
month, as in the present unsatisfactory state of
the market it is thought inadvisable. The sales,
therefore, which were arranged for the 25th and
26th inst., will be deferred until 16th and 17th
May, and this co’s catalogue will be submitted on
the former date. The next London sales will
commence on Bth May.*
■9>
Why do you
sit calmly and
just let your
hair all fall
out or get
gray and do
nothing to
stop it? Is
this common
sense? Not a
bit of it. No
need of losing
your hair in this way. And
there is no need of your look-
ing old before your time,
either. The hair may be
pres erved
and made
beautiful
by giving
it the food
found in—
It always
restores
Hair
visor
color to gray or faded hair.
Your hair may hare all the
dark, rich color of early life.
Then why not have it so ?
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer 4 Co., Lowell, Mass., V.S.A.
THE FOURTEENTH REPORT
OF THE DIRECTORS OF
Tbc National Barjk of Australasia
LIMITED.
1. The Balance Sheet of the Bank as on 31st March last, and the Profit and Loss Account for the Half-Year which
then terminated, are now submitted to the Shareholders.
2. The net Profit, after deducting exp.enses of management, and the other items specified in the Profit
and Loss Account,
Amounted to
Balance from previous half-year..
Deduct note-tax in Australia and income-tax in Great Britain
Leaving available
which it is proposed to appropriate as follows :
Dividend of five (5) per cent, on preference shares
Towards doubtful dependencies
Carry forward
£86,870 5 8
Aggregate Balance Sheet for the Half Year ending 31st March, 1900
(Including London Office to the 24th February, 1900, and Western Australian branches to
the 19th March, 1900): —
£25,463 6 1
83,713 5 8
£89,171 11 4
3,301 6 8
£86,870 6 8
£7,644 10 0
68,000 0 0
10,225 16 8
Dr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’ Capital—
-30,578 preference
shares paid in cash
to £lO
250,000 ordinary
shares paid up to £4
per share, repre-
senting the paid up
capital of the Na-
tional Bank of Aus-
tralasia, £1,000,000;
calls made on 250,000
shares, at £3 per
share, £750,000, of
which there has
been actually paid-
in cash; £719,849
16s. 4d.—£1,719,849
16s. 4d. Less capi-
tal paid up on 11,512
shares forfeited,
£50,433 16s. 4d. ..
Reserve fund account
Profit and loss account
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation ..
Government deposits
—Not bearing inter-
est, £119,732 os. Bd.;
bearing interest,
£418,528 os. 7d. ..
Other deposits—Not
bearing interest,
£2,724,312 Bs. 3d. ;
bearing interest,
£2,923,044 7s. 6d. ..
Interest accrued and
rebate on current
bills
Balances due to other
banks
£305,780 0 0
1,669,416 0 0
64,977 12 4
85,870 5 8
£2,116,043 18 0
£329,221 12 6
£660,757 18 9
538,260 1 3
5,647,356 15 9
53,314 0 3
65,280 4 11
7,294,190 13 6
£9,410,234 11 5
Contingent liability, as per contra,
£207,994.
ASSETS.
By Coined gold and silver
and other coined
metal .. ..£1,400,699 7 6
Gold or Silver in bul-
lion or bars.. .. 61,093 7 7
Cash at bankers .. 66,660 17 8
Government, munici-
pal and other pub-
lic stocks, deben-
tures and funds .. 736,209 19 1
Notes and bills of
other banks .. 8,966 16 8
Balances due from
other banks .. 40,023 16 11
Bills in transitu .. 645,655 17 11
Gr.
Real estate, consisting of bank pre-
mises, at cost to the bank
Other real estate, at cost to the bank,
less £68,833 7s. sd. written off
Advances, exclusive of provision for
bad and doubtful debts
Bills of exchange and promissory
notes discounted, not included in
above, exclusive of provision for bad
and doubtful debts
Duty stamps
£2,938,210 2 4
455,642 12 2
471,187 2 0
4,341,990 18 1
1,200,464 18 11
2,738 17 11
£9,410,234 11 5
Liability of the old bank, in the form
of a guarantee of certain shire and
municipal debentures (Victoria) sold
in London, and which are being duly
provided for by sinking funds, •in
terms of the act authorising their
issue, £114,100; and liabilities of
. customers and others on letters of
credit and drafts, £93,894; as per
contra, £207,994.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Expenses at head office, 108 branches
and 11 agencies £52,489 16 7
Note aiftl income taxes 3,301 6 8
Balance 5 8
£141,661 7,11
By Balance brought forward
Gross profits, including recoveries, less
rebate on bills current, interest paid
and accrued on deposits, repairs to
premises, and rent
£63,718 6 3
77,943 2 8
RESERVE
FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance M » .. .. £54,977 12 4
By Balance last half year £50,000 0 0
Transfer from capital account for
amount paid up on 981 forfeited
shares 4,977 12 4
£54,977 12 4
AotJw?Tp‘^i: n A the i S»?S > ! 2rt“ d ‘ he Directore ’ ■*••■"■“* tooomply with the Complies
F. G, SMITH, Chief Manager,
LADIES !
* ‘ , _ '"!■ Naturally Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 6s 6d to £3 3s each.
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales . .
Barbers’ Supply House
680-2 George-st.
SYDNEY.
A SILVER WATCH
for NOTHING-
J"? HEREBY UNDERTAKE TO GIVE ONE OF
OUR FAMOUS SILVER WATCHES, listed at £2 10s.
(Ladys or Gentlemen’s) to every MAN, WOMAN, or
CHILD who sends us the Correct Reading of the fol-
lowing r UZZLt i
S*F* R*T*RN T* O*R B**V*
B*S* B*Y*.
Tl>e only condition is that if your answer is correct
that you purchase one of our Solid Sterling Silver
Ohajns to wear with the watch.
SEND NO MONEY, simply forward your answer and
enclose stamped and addressed envelope, so that we
may inform you if you have won a watch.
• ) Ve , ar ? mak i n V this offer solely with the object of
introducing and advertising our goods.
- Nelson, N.S.W., 7/4/1900.
Dear Sir.—l am exceedingly pleased with the Watch
you sent me. It keeps perfect time. I will recommend
your firm to my friends.
J. HESSON.
ADDRESS—THE MANAGER,
The London Watch & Jewellery
COMPANY,
13 CENTRAL ARCADE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Willianison.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. 15. MOut.rie.
Every Evening, at 8 sharp. Wednesday Afternoon, at 2.
NANCE O’NEIL SEASON.
Camilla LAST TWO NIGHTS !
uamme last two nights \ tamilie
As Presented by SARAH BERNHARDT..
Saturday, April 28, ELIZABETH, QUEEN or ENGLAND.
Plan, Nicholson’s. IBT" PRICES-fts., 3s„ 25., and Is.
-THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Under the Dirpp.t.inn nf 1
Under the Direction of Mr. R. BROUGH.
Return to Sydney, for SIX WEEKS only, of the
BROUGH COMEDY COMPANY \
TO-NiaHT (Thursday, April 20) TO-NIGHT
THE MANOEUVRES OF JANE.
An Original Comedy, by Henry Arthur Jones.
Matinee Every Thursday, at 2.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Second Week! and Continued Success of
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC CO.
including Miss DORA DE WINTON
and Mr. JOHN D. SAUNDERS,
in the Quaint and Romantic Melodrama, entitled
“THE IRISHMAN.”
Prices as Usual. Early doors (6d. extra) open 6.45.
Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.’s.
SYDNEY.
Alfred Dampif,r.
ATTRACTION! .
QRITERION THEATRE,
Lessee and Manager
EXTRAORDINARY
REAPPEARANCE T| A P» _
REAPPEARANCE 0F MltrCd Pdlppi^r
The “ Most Popular Actor in Australia,”
AND HIS FAMOUS DRAMATIC COMPANY.
TO-NIGHT ! TO-NIGHT !
Robbery Under Arms.
Captain Starlight .. Alfred Dampier.
Supported by the Full Strength of the Company.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY. ~ '
Sole Lessee & Proprietor, Mr. Orpheus M. McAdoo.
LAST NIGHTS! Mr. Orpheus M. McAdoo’s
GENUINE GEORGIA MINSTRELS and ORIGINAL
ALABAMA CAKEWALKERS
In their BRILLIANT MINSTREL PROGRAMME.
Announcement Extraordinary. Saturday, 28th April,
“ UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.”
Interpreted by Genuine Negroes. Plan at Paling’s.
PRICES : 35., 25., and Is. Matinee every Wed. and Sat.
-|-HE NEW TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Matinees SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY.
Gigantic Success ! A Great Triumph ! The Greatest
Company of Stars ever brought together.
PAUL MARTINETTI and His Company.
Mr. TOM BROWNE. THE NEWSKYS.
JAS. BAIN. DAVE CASTON. FRANCIE ADLER.
And all our Great Company.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harrv Rickards.
INSTANTANEOUS and EMPHATIC SUCCESS of the
Great Ludwig Amann d F a y cial
Mr. TOD CALLAWAY, LITTLE FANNY POWERS,
Prof. ALMOND, Champion Specialty Dancer.
IRENE FRANKLIN, America’s Piquant Comedienne.
CHAS. SEEL, Miss MAUD NEEDHAM, Prof. DAVY’S
MARIONETTES, POPE and SAY.LES, E. SULLIVAN,
DORA TAYLOR,and the Whole of Our Grand Double Co.
Box Plan at Allen’s. Matinee* every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of Williain Anderson.
NEXT SATURDAY, April 28. First Time in Melbourne,
New Military and Domestic Drama,
* THE LADDER OF LIFE •
Or, Gordons to the Front.
Specially Selected Company. Military Pageant. Storm-
ing of Dargai Heights. Acrobatic Sensation of the Age,
THE HUMAN LADDER.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan's.
pRINCESS’ THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
§tr EVERY EVENING!
CHARLES AIRATOLD
And His English Comedy Company.
340 Nights at the Strand Theatre, London.
“What Happened to Jones.”
Preceded by “ AN EMPTY STOCKING.”
IF IT HURTS YOU TO LAUGH,
DON’T SEE WHAT HAPPENED TO JONES.
Alexandra theatre, Melbourne.
Under the sole management of Mr. William Anderson.
SATURDAY, 28th APRIL,
THE IMMENSELY SUCCESSFUL NAUTICAL DRAMA,
Haods Across tbe Sea.
Mr. Alfred Woods, Miss Maud Williamson,
and a Powerful Dramatic Organisation.
PRICES: Bs, 2s, Is 6d, Is, and SIXPENCE.
Plan at Allan’s. Gen. Bus. Man., Mr. CHAS ENDE.
F
AIR GIRLS AND GRAY HORSES.
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
At Poverty Point.
Mre.Patrick Campbell’s Pat, whom the cables report
killed in a late Safrican engagement, owed his sergeant’s
stripes (and perhaps, therefore, his death) to the fact that
he had a society actress for a wife. When Wales in-
spected the Imperial Yeomanry just before it embarked
Mrs. Patrick’s husband had to be brought out for the
Prince’s closer observation-Kind, of course, that meant
promotion on the spot. Campbell, a fine, genial fellow
besides being Mrs. Pat’s husband, was a little of “ some-
thing in the city ; ” he was sec. of the Miners’ Dream Ex-
tension Co. until that Westralian wild cat went the wav
of most miners’ dreams, extended or otherwise.
“ Yowler”: Melbourne has in Miss Bertha Bird a vocal
gymnast who is likely to eclipse even Amy Castles as an
advertising medium. The claims of America that its Miss
Beach Yaw has the highest register on earth, and can sin™
2v full notes rising to F in altissimo, reminds people that
Melbourne s Bird can go to Aflat beyond the F in altissimo
a vocal feat that leaves the ground-and-lofty champion
of America practically out of it, and secures to Australia
another world’s championship. Bertha follows the other
song-birds to Europe at an early date.
At a mass meeting at Syracuse, U.S., on Feb. 25,
Emehe Melville, whom old-timers remember as the most
sparkling opera-bouffe artiste Australia has ever seen
made a speech of red-hot sympathy with the Boers, among
whom she Once lived—with Billgreeno Verdi.
Miss Dot Frederics, as the most vivacious and flighty of
damsels who happen to Jones in Arnold’s farce
at Melb. Princess, .has so much laughing to do in the
course of the comedy, or does it of her own volition, that
during the whole evening she never goes ten seconds
without a burst of hilarity. If there were good and
sufficient reason for half the laughing Miss Frederics
laughs, Jones’s adventures would he the funniest on
earth, but the glad laughter is often uncalled for, and as
an effort on the part of the actress to convince the
audience that the farce is funnier than it looks it is always
ft mistake.
‘‘What Happened to Jones” is excessively American,
and much of the patter wants editing down to the com-
prehension of a community that does not plav poker to
excess. The American musical burlesque creates the be-
lief that the average American person devotes his spare
time and the minutes he can snatch out of business to the
pursuit of the illusive cocktail, but the American farce
convinces you that the ordinary Yank’s whole energies
and aspirations are devoted to poker, and the Yank
language is based on poker expressions.
‘‘M.E.P.” : Miss O’Neil’s Oamille—or Camel, as they
called it on the stage—didn’t remind us of Bernhardt or
Potter, or of anyone we have seen. Miss O’Neil made the
part a study in tones. Her adieu to Armand, for instance,
i" ~c tv l lAlj.:~^dieu I A I j. : ~^ dieu (™ ezz °). Adieu (mezzo). Adieu (con-
tralto), Adieu (contralto), and then again, Adieu (soprano *
—aH called from the passage while Armand sat like a good'
little boy in his chair, and did what he was bid (one could
almost.magine him reading from his book “ A-b-ab e-b-
-eb. ) Camille would rise from her chair when she wanted
to say anything impressive, stand straight, chin sunk in
neck, and work those deep notes of hers. They are cer-
tainly fine, but they rather take her mind off her part so
intent is she on giving them play. It is certainly graphic,
and rather pathetic, when Oamille suddenly sits on the
floor and exclaims “Once a woman has fallen it is no
difficult to rise.” Papa Duval let the hint pass unheeded
and never offered to help her up. As she sat there, and
swayed from side to side emitting groans and cries of
My God, or something to that effect, in deep, pathetic
tones, it did look as if it were difficult to rise. Camille
cried and sobbed, and brushed her hair back, and paced
the room a good deal before she sat on the floor and said
that about the fallen woman, and Papa Duval listened and
looked nice. He flung his pretty cloak around him,
turned his classic profile to the audience, and, the arm
extended and gracefully curved, might have posed for a
statue of some leading light. In accents truly noble he
told Car (\-7nul of a let -tor he had received, and spoke to
her of credit-ers, and ended by giving her, coin-passion-
ate-Iy, a paternal kiss of silent blessing. But, not content
with robbing her of her Armand, on his way to the door,
on Saturday night, Pere Duval whipped up her shawl
with his hat and carried it away also. I was reminded of
poor Girard and his jerky style when Oamille told Armand
that she had given her word “to one! who has ! the
nght! to ask. Yes ! I love ! the Count! de Varville 1 ”
Kingston, in his frock-coat, rather shocked the modest
in the stalls, for he strongly suggested Louise Hepner as
the leader of the Purity Brigade. He wore no petticoats,
and his green-trousered legs had a rather comical effect
on one. Gustave looked at first as if he had dressed in a
hurry, to take his Nichette to see Camille, for he had the
appearance of having rushed out of his home in the midst
of shaving and forgotten to wash the lather off his jaws.
This couldn’t have been the fact, though, for he still wore
the lather in acts 4 and 5. The audience was much im-
pressed with all these things, and cheered a good deal
and clapped a good deal, and altogether was well pleased.
Especially did. it watch with breathless and wet-eyed
attention the sick woman as she tried to rise from her
sofa and walk across the room. To the callous there was
a suggestion in this of a very inebriated gentleman trying
to pick up his hat, but Saturday’s audience was inclined
to be maudlin and did not see it. It wept, and went
home feeling happy and good. Miss O’Neil’s “ Strange,” in
the last act, reminded me irresistibly of a very bored
society woman’s remark to the man who bored her.
Colonel Bell has been on the flute again in Sydney, in
mellifluous accents, advising his brother Anglo-Saxon re-
garding his duties and responsibilities. Colonel Bell is a
gentleman with a curious delivery; his voice goes into
retreat the first half of the sentence, and then swells
fortissimo with a suddenness which causes the audience
to look up and wonder how the other fellow got on to the
platform ; but it is the one and only Bell all the time
smiling ecstatically while a blob of reflected light circles
round his pale pink head. Bell’s humor is of the dry
American variety, hard to be understood at first, of a
people who like their fun of the rich moist beer-and-curse
order—as when the Colonel affirms that to do wrong is
sometimes better than to do right as thereby you learn
not to do wrong again, whereat his audience' inwardly
resolves to take many lessons of that sort. The lecturer’s
idea of the duties and responsibilities of the Anglo-Saxon
seem to be that as John has grabbed much of the earth
his duty is to grab the rest, so that the children of God
may rejoice. Bell does not say who are the children of
God —or if he does it is in one of his diminuendo moments
—but everybody understands that he is himself the
children in question—which is a comforting assurance and
good for the digestion.
Mrs. Maesmore Morris, cast for a two-line part in the
recent London revival of “ Prisoner of Zenda,” had the
luck to step into the shoes of her “ overstudy,” the lead-
ing lady, for a night or two. The theatrical papers seem
to have been chiefly struck by the fact that the new-
comer looked sweet and self-composed in the character of
Princess Flavia, for they said little or nothing about the
pretty little woman’s attempts at emotional acting, which
were probably not impressive. The Maesmore Morris
played Berenis in “ Sign of the Cross ” and other strong
parts before she left Melbourne, but her passion was mila
as milk. All the same, she ought to do very nicely as a
sentimental girl in light comedy, or a graceful minor
figure in classic drama. A part requiring warmth and
dash is out of her line.
There is a hideous taste about that cablegram of
hst Monday which stated that, according to
British military doctors, many of the Boer dead
prove to be women in male attire. The said cable
came just on the day that N.S.W.’s severalth
Contingent was going away to further reinforce
the 200,000 or 250,000 men, who are busy crush-
ing two little nations, which don’t muster more
than half these numbers—men, women and
children all counted. It wasn’t nice to think that
that latest contingent was going even to shoot
and bayonet men under these circumstances,
—the reinforcement which goes to help seven
men to down one isn’t a reinforcement
that one can be deliriously proud of.
But to think that a contingent from a’ country
which numbered among its citizens the men of the
Eureka Stockade is possibly going out with its
bayonets to disembowel women and girls is still
less - agreeable. Of course, if they are there—if
the wives and daughters have come in to fill up
the gaps in the scanty ranks of the republic for a
last effort, and they are dressed like men, the
chances are that no Contingenter, when the fury
of ripping up complete strangers for five shillings
a day, the glory of the empire, and the
dividends of Wernher, Eckstein, Rhodes & co.,
is °n him, will recognise their sex in time.
When seven Britons and one Australian have
climbed on the top, of one Dutchman with fatal
results it is possibly unpleasant; when they find
afterwards that the seven have been ripping up a
Dutch woman in their hurry, even the fervor of
loyalty ” can’t disguise the fact that it is cer-
tainly unpleasant. This sort of news is calculated
to much damp the enthusiasm over the departure
of Australia’s 117th contingent, or whatever the
correct figure may be.
+
Regina Dubberke, the candid young
heroine of the great Boot-box Tragedy, was mar-
ried at Melbourne last week to an Englishman of
some means.
A lady writes to Sydney D.T. re the
plague scare:—
There is a curious inconsistency in the actions of the
authorities. No case of infection from one human being
to another has yet taken place, no “ contact ” has taken
the disease or given it to another, no nurse or doctor has
taken it, yet the cruel dragging of patients from comfort-
able beds goes on relentlessly. And side by side with
this, in deference to notions that are admitted to be
purely sentimental, the dead are not allowed to be
cremated, but are buried, in the face of the fact that
infection has been known to occur from the re-opening of
a burial-ground 1 The dead are to be tenderly considered,
but the suffering living are to be endangered at will 1
That able veteran war - correspondent,
Bennett Burleigh, in London Daily Telegraph :
Let us wait till we hear the absolute truth about firing
on the white flag. I believe these stories to be exagger-
ated, but possible to explain if true. I profess myself to
believe the Boer to be a brave man, and as such a fitting
antagonist for English soldiers.


Medical.
ECZEMA OLEAC
Discovered by Christopher Mudd, F.L.S., the
Prince of Wales’ Botanist.
Cures this terrible itching complaint. Mot a
Grease. Does not Stain the Linen.
Full directions each jar. Jars, 4/6; post, 4/l(b
Used in the Melbourne Homoeopathic
Hospital with success.
Chemists, or direct from the
COLONIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR THB f
Fred. J.E. Phillips, 317 Collins St., Melbourne
I Cure Fits.
You are 1
not asked 1
to spend J
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. All you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottle of medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G. R00T, 38, Endslelgh Gdns., LONDON.
“ Food for Thought/’
A NYTHING which causes a drain on the nerves helps to
make a SUSPENSORY necessary. _ Excessive mental
effort, prolonged and exhaustive physical exercise, over-
indulgence in any way, dissipation, irregularity of diet,
loss of sleep, anything which produces fatigue has its
first effect on the vital organs. A sick man, or a tired
man, has not much vital vigor, the strain tells on the
most delicate nerves first, fatigue there produces fatigue
everywhere. Fatigue of the vital organs leaves a man
with little energy, with little strength to work or think.
The connection between the brain and the vital organs
is most direct. Excessive mental work affects the vital
power, and abuse of the vital power affects the brain—a
strain on one is a strain on both. A SUSPENSORY stops
one strain on one. It is not a big strain, but it is there
all the time : it is one little strain multiplied by the
number of seconds in the day. It is a continual drag,
which empties the store of vitality just as a reservoir may
be emptied drop by drop.
We have been saying “A" SUSPENSORY. What we
really mean is an
0 OLD
P POINT
Q COMFORT
SUSPENSORY
0-P‘C
[jWJER&BIM*;
Chic3^
TAKE THE 0.P.0.
Satisfaction goes with it sure Recommended by the
Medical fraternity throughout the world. Send for
Booklet, FREE.
6 h
V-
-9/-
12/0
PRICES.
No. 2—0.P.0., Lisle Sack, Elastic Banda ..
No. 8 „ Silk „ »
No. 4 „ „ », Silk „ •• ••
No. 6 „ Fancy „ „ Fancy Silk Elastic Bands
Three Sizes —Large, Medium, and Small.
OF ALL CHEMISTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,
or by post, under plain sealed cover, on Receipt of Price.
Df- Sold under a positive guarantee to give satisfaction.
BAUER & BLACK, Manufacturers, Chicago, 111., U.B.A.
Australasian Office :
117 Clarence-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
HEALTH and strength
B 1 may be secured without inconvenience or attention
on the part of the person taking Dr. HOPE 8 LIFE
SYRUP (liquid or pill form). Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day to day. Are you a Sufferer from bad health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood m a
disordered condition ? Do you feel generally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other acnes
and pains ?
The Life Syrup Will Cure You.
Price 101- and 20/- ; Course 401-
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing howdis-
orders are cured, and in bydiet aloneposted
six stamps. Address HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIMAD LT & CO S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Business
Announcements.
m
» •V» w f
Natural Curly. Irom 3/0 eaoK
PLAITS ond TAILS,
NHn. lone, 5/fi. oil real half.
CUTTINGS & COMBING*
worked up, S/6 per 02.
\ve ore the cheapeSUo i»
tralla lor all Hair Work.
Scad Color o( Hair. "
W. H.jTigzeH.
110 Wtuiau Strset.
comer of Palmer-etreet,
SYDNEY.
Coble Tram will stop at Dow..
Send eta rope (or full Price Uib''
Pratept atteobioo'giwD to Oe Wiley
nm
The Life of the System.
S. FREEMAN * SONS L!!sns?
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S
FREEMAN’S
BAKING
PRIZE
POWDER.
PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. , FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
HEAD OFFICE : WYNTARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
This is the Latest Type
Gramophone
or
Zonophone-
Price, £7.
THIS MACHINE
A
Carriage Paid.
TALKS, SINGS,
Plays all
Instrumental Music.
In fact, it is a Concert in your own Home.
Nothing' to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action.
Records, 3s; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List—FREE.
Also on Sale —
1 Edison Cinematographs complete and 10
Films, £5O.
1 Cinematographe and 10 Films, £35.
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £5O. A fortune fora
smart man. •
2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each. Bargain.
Edison X-Ray Outfits, complete.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
Headquarters in Australia — EPISON ELECTRIC COMPANY,
Removed to 1 and 3 Rowe Street. (120 PITT STREET), SYDNEY (ONLY).
IF. J. N. Oldershaw, Manager. Nearly opposite G.F.O.
n
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Our©
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
A
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORO’S MAGNESIA,
: m
'A '///A
B E 3
sffl
.
SPARKLING
I
HE
If
• £
A GREAT MANY
DELICIOUS DISHES
Can be prepared with this
Pure and Wholesome British
production.
CLEAR CRYSTALLINE
JELLIES,
DELICIOUS BLANC-
MANGES, CREAMS, and
PUDDINGS,
DELICATE SAVOURIES and
INVALID DISHES.
J. & G. COX, Ltd.,
Edinburgh & London.
Wholesale Asrents: BLAKEY & LACEY, 23 Camden Buildings, 418 George Street, Sydney.
\.v ''■S' i
■hiii
*Wien
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired o' STOMACH DRUGGING |
and disappointment;, send for one of Stephenson s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by |
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical D«non-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI- 1
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
I They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
10 0
1 10 0
2 2 0
8 8 0
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells
Extra powerful, with suspensory
aitaehments
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 22 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
IEI Trui-mUc/h-et. TTWIe Park. Svdnev
“ON OUR SELECTION,” by Steele Rudd.
Price, 6s. Post Free, from The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Eor what you are about to re-
ceive, MAY THE LORD MAKE YOU
TRULY THANKFUL, was the pious wish the
London Stock Exchange wired to the wily Kruger.
Another thing they might have wished him was a
cool head, to be obtained by using “FEDERAL
SHAMPOO FREEZER.” Ask Chemists and
Barbers for that dry shampoo this hot season.
Elliott Bros., Agents.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERR Follow
the Footsteps of the Wise, and Buy the Best, Cheapest,
and most Stylish Clothing in Australia from
Lincoln, Stuart & Go. Proprietary Ltd.
252 & 254 FLINDERS ST., MELB. (opp. Station).
5000 pieces of Woollens to select from.
Oar Suit to Order, at 42/-,
is marvellous value, made
from All-Wool Tweeds, Vi-
cunas, or Series, fast colors,
is perfect fitting, beautifully
finished. A splendid Suit to
Order, from any class of ma-
terial, £3 3s. To Measure,
capital Trousers, 10 6. Very
good patterns, 12/6. Dress
Suits to Measure, 84/-. Cleri-
cal Suits to Measure, £5.
Golf or Cycling Suits, 35/-
Ridingßreeehes,2s/-. Water-
proof Tweed or Cloth Over-
coats. Band and other Uni-
forms. Riding Habits, etc.
Wesupply Ready-made Men’s
Capital Tweed Suits, 21/-
Famous Ballarat Serge Suits,
Indigo dye, 25/-. Sergerette
Suits, any shade, 30/-. Ex-
cellent Tweed or Serire Trou-
sers, 5/11. Tweed Over-
0
coats, 21/-. Waterproof Coats, full capes, 15 9. The
Greatest Assortment of Boys' Clothing in Australia. Ele-
gant Tennis Shirts front 26. Undressed White Shirts,
Linen Fronts and Cuffs, 2/-, 2/11, 33. Warm Traveling
Rugs, 13 6. Gent's splendid Balmoral Boot§, 66» 9/6.
Soft Alpine Hats, 46, all colors. Hard Hats, 4/6. Straw
Hats, 2/6. Indian Pith Helmets, 66. Caps.l/-. Merino
Underpants or Shirts, 1/9. White Matte Shirts;- very nice,
2/6. Neckties, all shapes and colors, 1/-. Half Hose.
Crimean Shirts. White Shirts to Measure. And all
classes of Gent.'s Mercery.
We like to write letters, so please don’t be afraid to ask
for any information. Our book, The Philosophy of Dress,
also Patterns of all kinds, and Self-Measurement Forms,
posted Free. Write for them.
Publications.
SKIN DISEASES
. . AND . .
Their Treatment.
ACNE, ECZEMA, PSORIASIS, &c.,
By Dr. ALFRED NEALE (M.D., M.8.C.M., Ed.),
Late Physician to Manchester Skin Hospital.
SYDNEY : TURNER and HENDERSON. Post 1/1.
i^i
Tales of Medical Students.
By Dr. Hodgson, of Sydney. Just Issued
All Booksellers and Bookstalls, 3s. 6d. Post Free, 4s.
Wholesale Agents : Edwards, PuNLor & Co., Sydney.
Books. Books. Books.
TJOPULAR EDUCATOR—£S for £1 ss. The Home
X physician, illustrated, £2 10s. for £l. The New En-
quire Within, 500 receipts, 7s. 6d. for ss. 6d. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, lOvols.,
£7 10s. for £2 15s. The History of Australian Bushrang-
insf, Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated.
Can only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Kindly mention this paper.
R W.SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh-streeo, Sydney.
SEND FOR A
BOOK CATALOGUE
OF rare, curious,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustratrd London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
Address. PRIVATE,
T. TT S *r R A. T £! T~>
"VS/ITH numerous anatomical
W colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of book, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) for stopage.
. Box 462. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
m
How Do! May I send you
my
Extra Special
Book Catalof/ne ?
WILL ANDRADE,
*2Ol BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
mn
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET
°BOOlis!
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
lAMOND SONG BOOK,
600 SONGS, WORDS and MUSIC,
complete, the greatest collection of songs ever bound
together between the boxers of one book. National
Songs of every country, including WAR, PATRIOTIC,
COMIC, SENTIMENTAL and other songs. Many old-
time favorites long since out of print, priceless on ac-
count of tender memories, and cannot be had else-
where. Complete list of the songs for a stamp. This
wonderful book will be sent anywhere for only 2s. 6d., posted
2s. lOd. from ANGLO-AMERICAN PUBLISHING CO., Wat-
erloo Chambers, 458 George-street, Sydney, N.S.W. Stamps, 2d
extra. Add exchange to postal notes. Agents wanted for this
and other Fast Selling Books. Mention this paper when writing
Medical.
CALVERTS
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been awarded 100 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious especially
in Hot Climates. . v
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester,


Hearne s Bronchitis Cure.
the famous REMED'Z for i
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficully of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is in\ alcalde, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most coin-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumpt i< nlo develop. Consumption hcjs
never been known to exist where “ Coughs have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain. " ’
B€WAR€ OF COUGHS!
A Lady in London.
A MARTY It TO COLDS AND BRONCHIAL
ASTHMA.
CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HE ARNE'S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE DOCTOR SO INTERESTED THAT HE
CARIiIED OFF THE EMPTY BOTTLE.
“Orange, N.S.W.
“ Mr. Ilearn". —
“ Dear Mir,—l enclose for your own private perusal
portion of a letter received from my mother, Mrs. ,
of London, England, from which you will glean that
your medicine has been a perfect God-send to a martyr to
colds aod bronchial asthma. I do not wish any names to
he mentioned, hut you are at liberty to make use of any
portion of this letter you choose, and you can confidently
refer anybody to me.
“ I heard of your excellent remedy, and sent it to Eng-
land. You can see for yourself what an immense success
it was.—Yours faithfully, .”
Extract from letter alluded to above :
“You will be interested in hearing that. I think the
Bronchitis Cure really excellent. I was very bad when it
arrived, and I immediately flew to it. That was last
Friday, and it has quite cured me. Dr. is very
much interested in it. He came yesterday, and carried
off the empty bottle to find out if he could get a full one
from a chemist who is in a large way here.”
Tlie names are withheld from publication, but will be
supplied privately when desired.
AGONISING COUGH.
NINE MONTHS' TORTURE.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY
TWO BOTTLES.
“Derghohn, Victoria.
“Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the won-
derful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered for nine
months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights
I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. I had medical
advice, and tried other ‘ remedies,’without avail. I tried
yours, and never had a fit of coughing after taking the
first dose, and though I have had but two bottles I feel I
am a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
may depend upon my making known the efficacy of your
wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.
“ Yours faithfully,
“JAMES ASTBURY.”
We, the undersigned, have, had occasion to obtain
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and W’e certify that it was per-
fectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which
undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. Signed by
the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and
fifty-nine other leading residents.
A FEW EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three
doses.—P. F. MULLINS, Covvie’s Creek, Victoria.”
•
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only stave him four doses, and have some of
the medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.—D. M‘DONALD, Trinkev, via
Quirindi, N.S.W.”
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.—A. B. SIMMONS, Nc. 7 Renny-st., Paddington, Sydney.”
•
“ My wife is 82 years old, and I am 79, and I am glad to inform you that your Broehitis Cure has done us
both a wonderful deal of good.it having quickly cured us both.—lt.' BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broad ford,
Victoria. ”
®
“I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me. —(Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.”
©
“I have found your Bronchitis Cure a splendid medicine.—JOHN MADDEN, Skipton, Victoria.”
“ I have finished the Bronchitis Cure you sent, and am amazed at what it has done in the time. The diffi-
culty of breathing has all gone.-J. HARRINGTON, Bingegong, Morundah, N.S.W.”
•
“ My cold, bad as it was, disappeared after two doses.—C. J. CURRIE, Solicitor, Victoria Chambers,
Queen-street, Melbourne.”
9
“ I lately administered some of your Bronchitis Cure to a son of mine, with splendid effect. The cure was
absolutely miraculous.—F. A. PACKER., Quiera, Neutral Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.”
9
“Your Bronchitis Cure, as usual, acted splendidly.—C. H. RADFORD, Casterton, Victoria.”
“ Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most
valuable medicine.—(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.”
9
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right o;T at once.—
G. SEYTER, Bourke, New South Wales.” 9
“Your medicine for asthma is worth £1 a bottle.—W. LETTS, Heywood, Victoria.”
“I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.—S.
STEELE, Yanko Siding, New South Wales.” 9
“ I suffered front Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine,
but I can truly say that lam astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of mv brief trial. JOHN C.
TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.”
®
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I pa ! d -c v n guineas, did not do
me*ny good; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. 11. HOOD,
Brooklands, Avoca-street South Yarra, Melbourne.”
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.—A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.”
9
“ Your Bronchitis Cure has done me much good. This is a new experience, for all the medicine I previously
took made me much worse. I am satisfied that the two bottles of Bronchitis Cure I got from you have pulled
me through a long and dangerous illness. —HENRY WURLOD, Alma, near Maryborough, Victoria.”
9
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure 1 got from you was magical in its effects.— CHAS. WIIYBROW, Enoch’s
Point, via Darlirigford, Victoria.”
Gratitude and Appreciation.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN
CIRCLE.
“ The Scientific Australian Office,
“ 169 Queen-street, Melbourne.
“Dear Mr. Hearne, —The silent workers are frequently
the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria
who during: the last few years has been repeatedly work-
ing for and singing the praises of Henrnc’s Uronchitis
Cure, it is our Mr. Phillips.
“This gentleman, some three years ago, was recom-
mended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. liarham, ac-
countant, Oollins-street, and the effect that it had was so
marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
“ We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of
Ilearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even
in our own circle of acquaintance.
“ Believe us always to be,
“Yours most faithfully,
“PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.”
Queensland Testimony-
THOM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
“ 69 Queen-st., Brisbane, Queensland.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send us 36
dozen Bronchitis Cure by first boat. We < nclose our
cheque to cover amount of order.
“We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable result, the child being quite
cured by three doses.
“We are, faithfully yours,
“THOMASON, CRATER & CO.,
“ Wholesale Chemists.”
Cured in Ten Days. <
THE EDITOR OF THE OLDEST NEWSPAPER
IN VICTORIA EXPRESSES GRATEFUL
APPRECIATION.
“W. G. Hearne, Esq. Dear Sir,—Permit me toexpre-s
my grateful appreciation of the value of your Bronchitis
Cure. I had, some months ago, a severe attack of
Bronchitis, and took your medic'iv, with the result that
at the end of ten days fh • c.nmp.aint had completely left
me. We are now never without the medicine in the
house, and at the first indication of a cold it is taken,
with immediate curative effect.
“I am, my dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
“R. QUARRILL,
, “ Editor Geelong Advertiser.” -
“Upon looking through our books we are struck with
the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale
Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d, Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“DOWKIDGE’S”
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic
is a PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
Minerva Tonic
is tho Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
Minerva Tonic
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
Minerva Tonic
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
Minerva Tonic
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
A n.stmli.-i.
Jre you Too Stout?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Plesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALINC REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
'itS-KrcritS Jfßstx ‘(H.T.II?
‘(asixiKn)
SMELTERS,
REI’S NERS
PEIODUCERa
Ob'
FINE SILVER.
m
9IH
MAKERS OP
S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD ”
AND
ILLAWARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
iclu.su* of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER ORES, CYANILE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP * REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOlt OKES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS. “
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Place SYDNEY
“ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—
It is invaluable.’'
Lciidon Medical Hecokd.
FOOD FOR
5
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Be., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, Dy
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
INVALIDS
AND
the aged.


The Great London Plague.
A GERMAN SCIENTIST’S VIEW OF IT’S
CAUSE.
“ Hundreds of years ago, as everyone knows,
London was visited by a plague that carried away
half its population, notwithstanding the fact that
physicians labored night and day to overcome the
black spectre that overhung the city. For a long
time the work was in vain. Death continued to
claim its victims, and in a spirit of terror many
people fled from the city. A well-known German
scientist, who was in London at the time, dis-
covered that all who left the city escaped the
disease ; or, at worse, had it in a mild form. This
gave him an idea, and, after thorough investiga-
tion, he found that the sewerage system was im-
perfect, that many of the principle sewers were
partly clogged up, and that in these districts the
disease was particularly fatal. He communicated
his discovery to the authorities, and a general
cleaning up was inaugurated at once. The bene-
ficial results were noticeable immediately, and it
was only a short time until the dreadful disease
was entirely stamped out, and the great plague
was no more.”
The importance of a perfect system of sewerage
in a city cannot be over-estimated, but it is not a
whit more important than that the sewerage of
the human body—the bowels and the kidneys —be
kept in perfect condition. It is just as easy for
them to become clogged or impaired in action as
it is for sewers in the streets, and the results are
just as disastrous. The bowels become costive,
and no attention is paid to it; this goes on, and
constipation follows, which weakens the actions
of the bowels, and they do not carry off all the
waste matter from the body. The sewer is
clogged, as it were, and the circulation of the
blood carries the germs of disease into all parts of
the body.
It is very easy to purge the bowels now and
then; but that only weakens the system. What
is wanted is something to tone and strengthen the
stomach, liver and bowels, so they will work of
their own free will, and we get what we call health.
Now, Bile Beans for Biliousness, for all
stomach, liver and bowel troubles, are almost an
undoubted specific; they act very gently on the
bowels and strengthen the liver’s action, and in this
way the sewerage system of the human body is
thoroughly cleansed, and instead of foul breaths,
sour stomachs, dizziness, etc., caused by the stop-
page of the bowels, health is regained.
The painful fact cannot be denied that the
Bubonic Plague is in our midst at present. Its
total obliteration depends in a large measure upon
the precaution the public itself takes.
The liver and other organs of the body should
be kept pure by taking a course of Bile Beans,
and thus the public will be better enabled to fight
against the dreaded disease.
A Laborer’s Testimony.
INDIGESTION, HEARTBURN, AND
CONSTIPATION.
CURED BY BILE BEANS.
Mr. John Partridge, of Parkside, Ade-
laide, has a pitiful tale to relate. He suf-
fered from Indigestion, Heartburn, and
Constipation, and, being a laborer, it can
be easily imagined how he was handicapped
in his business. Mr. Partridge was almost
desperate with theinconvenience his malady
caused him, and he tried many patent medi-
cines without effect. The trouble a laborer
would experience with such a complication
of disorders might easily be imagined, and
when he tells us that, when he stooped,
he experienced a horrible belching, we
can readily believe his tale. Mr. Part-
ridge is now completely cured, and he has
been good enough to forward us the follow-
ing testimony :—“ lam only too glad and
willing to add my testimony to the value
of Bile Beans for Biliousness. My liver
was quite out of order, and for over six
months I was troubled with Indigestion,
Heartburn, and Constipation. I tried
many* patent medicines and pills without
effect, but about two months ago I com-
menced taking Bile Beans. They acted
like a charm ; they do not gripe or purge,
but keep my bowels regular. I prefer
them to any pill on the market. The indi-
gestion has gone, and my food no longer
lies on my stomach like a solid lump. The
heartburn has disappeared, and I can now
stoop to my work without that horrible
belching from my stomach.”
The popularity of Bile Beans for Bilious-
ness comes from three different sources :
First, the price is only 13id. per large box,
and they are accordingly within the reach
of all ; secondly, a box of Beans has ordi-
nary ingredients that bought in the regular
way in a chemist’s shop would cost about
three times as much as 13id. ; and, thirdly,
Bile Beans are compounded in about the
best-equipped laboratory in the world, and
the preparing of the secret vegetable ex-
tract that is added to these other ingredi-
ents costs thousands of pounds per annum.
Bile Beans are the result of a discovery
based on science, and with the proprietors
remains the secret of relaxing the bowels
without purging.
The enormous success of this preparation the
world over is the best possible proof of its
great worth. Millions use Bile Beans annu-
ally, and thousands say they are an un-
doubted specific for Biliousness, Headaches,
Dizziness, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Consti-
pation, Bad Blood, Pimples, Piles, Costive-
ness, Fulness after Eating, Female Ail-
ments, and for a general toning lip of the
system. Obtainable at all Chemists and
Storekeepers, or direct from the Australian
Depot, Bile Bean Manufacturing Co., 39
Pitt-street, Sydney.
T
II
<£>
<£
L
mn
(■MI
'&0,
W;
• O
1 XL
[MI
r'
£
Zs*
/ /
.3
/;
«/. / s&i
ft
/ >,
• 7 A
WA
P
\X
$
/£
ft /*z,^
0*
e»
As the LYDDITE SHELLS were destructive in the Boer
camp, so Bile Beans for Biliousness^-**-
have been proved destructive in all cases of digestive ailment.
Thev differ, however, from Lyddite in one: reat particular,
their composition is PURELY YEGEIABLE.
" Heart-Broke! ”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a hawker, and his van bore the name of
John Price, but “Daddy” he was always called.
A little gray man he was, with an old gray horse
and a strange, shuffling way of getting about, like
a man who fears to move alertly. Beyond the
conversation incidental to trade he was never
known to utter a word, so that to some he was
known as ‘ ‘ Daddy Silence.” The children always
called him plain “Daddy.” And the childien
knew him.
Once, after a few weeks’ absence from the dis-
trict, Daddy returned with a crippled boy in his
van. He, too, was of the prevailing color gray,
but his was an ashen gray. What he was to the
old hawker no one ever knew, not even the chil-
dren. All they could learn was that he was eight
years old, a oripple from his birth, and in some
way connected with Daddy.
During Daddy’s absence a Syrian hawker had
started a van on his beat, and now times were
hard for Daddy. He decided to strike out for
fresh fields. There was a back track he knew
leading over to another district. Syrians and
Chinamen were not game to face that track.
Daddy tackled it. All day he travelled over the
blue-grass plains, hot with the heat of a scorching
summer sun. He camped for the night on the
bank of a dry creek five miles from the township
for which he was heading. The shade of the gum-
trees was refreshing even in the sunset. The boy,
who had been ailing all day, burdened with the
heat, sat up and laughed merrily as Daddy boiled
the billy. Daddy smiled in response. The old
horse was cropping away down along the creek.
Daddy wondered vaguely—would he try to make
back to the old beat. They had worked that beat
a long while together, and now, as he looked first
at the horse, then away back along the track they
had come, Daddy’s face grew sad and wistful.
The blue-grass waved softly, the stars began to
peep through, and night fell.
In the morning the old horse was gone. He
had drifted back towards the old beat. Without
troubling to look which way the tracks headed,
Daddy started after him. It was almost a plea-
sure to him, heading back. He felt inclined to
drift along slowly, carelessly, lost in recollections,
but there was the boy to think of. He would be
wondering what had happened to Daddy. The
old 'man plodded on.
When Daddy found the horse it was dying. He
sat down on a log and stared at it stupidly.
“ Heart-broke, I suppose,” he said slowly. He
went over and raised the horse’s head. It fell
back wearily, heavily. “Heart-broke!” said
Daddy; “ we shouldn’t ha’ left the old beat.” His
voice was tender as a woman’s. He choked back
a sob ; went and sat down again. By-and-by he
got up and looked at the horse. It was dead.
Mournfully Daddy faced back towards the cart.
The waving blue-grass looked sad and lonely. The
sun was scorching hot.
When Daddy reached the van the boy was cry-
ing for water. Daddy gave him a drink and went
and sat down in the shade. He needed time to
think.
The sun began to slope westward. The boy
grew uneasy, “Daddy,” he called. The old
mail rose and climbed the cart. The boy was hot
and feverish. “I’m cooked, Daddy,” he said.
Daddy did not contradict him. He turned to get
down again. “ Don’t go, Daddy, said the bov,
“ sit there and hold my hand. Daddy sat as he
was told. He was trying to think, and somehow
his brain felt heavy and useless. . ,
The shadows were lengthening; the shade of
the big gum-tree passed off the van. Daddy
looked towards the setting sun, “We must shove
on !” he said. The boy did not reply; Daddy did
not expect him to. From force of habit he picked
up the winkers and started off. After he had
gone a little way he stopped, passed his hand over
his forehead and turned back. Leaning on the
shafts of the van he looked at the empty harness.
Then 'he began to fix a chain across the shafts.
Shuffling in, he took the chain on his shoulders
and started to drag the van. The boy awoke and
began to cry feebly. Daddy took no notice. The
boy ceased crying. The old man struggled on.
Sunset. Daddy stopped for a spell. He had
got about half-a-mile, and the track was getting
heavy. A horseman came jogging along a cattle-
pad that crossed the track. Pulling up, he looked
at Daddy. “Where’s your horse?” he asked.
“ Dead,” replied Daddy. “ Anyone with you ?”
asked the man. “ Yes,” replied Daddy without
looking up. Thinking Daddy was daft, the horse-
man rode on. When he had disappeared, Daddy
clambered up into the van and looked at the boy.
There was a fleck of foam on his lips, his eyes were
dull and glazed. Getting down, Daddy went and
seated himself in his former position. “Dead,”
he muttered. “ Dead—heart-broke, too ! ”
Next day a passing squatter looked in at the
van and saw the dead boy. Daddy had disap-
peared. A week later they found him, back on
the old beat.
He, too, was “heart-broke.”
WILL M. FLEMING.
Some N.Q. Impressions.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I visited Ingham, the other day, and I have
absorbed and inwardly digested the manifold
beauties thereof. Ingham lies on the Herbert
River, and sometimes under it. Also, Ingham
grows sugar. A huge semi-circle of black soil,
about l|ft. above sea-level, and fenced in by a
towering chain of mountains —the average tem-
perature is, according to the festive sugar expert’s
report, “ eminently suitable for and conducive to
a profitable cultivation of the cane plant.” He
forgot to mention that it is also eminently con-
ducive to language.
• * * *
The township consists of a wide street, which is
named, according to the state of the weather,
‘ ‘ The Desert ” or “ The Canal. ” There are three
hotels, but they don’t flourish. The inhabitants
are too tired to drink. They mainly live on
damper and treacle, the latter luxury mostly beet
molasses imported from Europe. The arms of
the town are a cookie couchant and a C.S.R. Co.
manager rampant with the inscription : “ Knox et
prcuter ca, nihil / ”
* * * *
At kingtide a considerable area of the cane-
fields is under salt water, and when tide and flood
happen together the coastal steamers call at the
main pub. and make fast to the second-storey
balcony. When the tide recedes it deposits a
large sediment of dead fish and other vegetable
matter which quickly decay under the fierce sun.
This operation vastly enriches the soil, and in-
cidentally, the air. In fact, at times the latter
becomes so rich that the local cookies grow
pumpkins in it.
* * * *
There is a numerous population of assorted nig-
gers, the most ferocious of which is yclept the
“ walk-about kanaka.” This gentleman indulges
mainly in Chinese gin and equestrianism. The
latter is particularly stimulating, especially to the
stranger. The local resident that might be on
the road simply lies down under a culvert when he
hears a sort of Sioux war-yell in the distance and
observes a turgid cloud of dust travelling rapidly
his way. The working, or indented, variety of
kanaka amuses himself by chasing the white
ganger with a cane-knife, and much blood curdling
imprecation, round a 50-acre field on a hot day.
Then the ganger is fined £5 and costs by the local
beak.
* ■’■>* * * *
A large settlement of Japanese holds itself aloof
from the common rabble and communicates with
the outer world by means of a very dignified
official with a linotype-smashing prefix. On Sun-
days and other high church festivals they visit in
batches of a dozen, and walking solemnly in single
file, the local pub, where they retire into a parlor
while the spokesman politely requests from the
noble barmaid the distinguished honor of a
superior bottle of brandy. After the superior
snake-juice aforesaid has duly disappeared they
file silently out again and retire within their
domestic privacy. It’s for all the world like a
procession of ghosts taking refreshment. But
there’s nothing mean about the Jap.
* * * *
Leaving to catch the Townsville boat at Lucinda
Point, I travelled per steam-train. Half-way
down the train derailed and fell into a swamp. I
complained. The driver simply looked contemp-
tuous: “Yous fellows are too dashed particular
for this country,” he remarked. As the steamer
cast off the sun went down over the distant hills,
and the green, pink-tipped delta, studded here
and there with weird, purple clumps of tortured
pandanus, seemed beautiful beyond description.
“How sweet!” exclaimed the ecstatic little
school-teacher, leaning over the railing by my
side. “How could it be otherwise, m’am,” I
answered, dreamily, “ where they grow so much
sugar!”
VON KOTZE.
The story of a Southerner who married in
haste while beery, and is now repenting at leisure.
He simply remembers putting up at an hotel with
the unworthy idea of having a wild carousal, and
when he sobered up he was married to a woman
whom he had never met before, and who was plain
and had large feet. Also, she swore in a harsh,
wild brogue and hit him on the head with a
bucket as a reminder of her legal and social
status. The young man had now recovered from
his consternation, and he put himself in the water-
butt to cool whilst he reviewed the evidence. He
speedily saw that he had indeed united himself to
a female incubus weighing lGst., and he decided
that his only course was to bolt. Accordingly
when night came he stole out and disappeared
over the hills. But his bride was on his track
armed with the law, and in two days the happy
man was run down and locked up for wife-deser-
tion. When last heard of, he had been remanded
for seven days to allow of an “amicable settle-
ment.’
His “Alphabbet.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Mick Malone returned to the “farrum”
after five years of Hunter’s Hill College, it took
him all his time to understand his mother’s brogue.
“ Micky.” said she, before he’d been at home an
hour, “I hope ye’ve larned to shpell well.”
“ Spell ! —oh, I say, mater, hang it all, I’ve been
going in for Latin and Greek —almost everything
except Irish.”
“Well, Mickey, there’s wan thing do be bother-
in’ me ; an’ maybe it’s Latin, but divil a wan o’
me can unthershtand it.”
“ What is it, mater ? ”
“Just this, avick : ‘Th’ blue—th’ blow—th’
blell—th’ blow—em th’ blow —ell th’ blow.’ ” The
old woman rattled it off like a feu de joie.
“Jumping Caesar ! Say it again.”
“Th’ blue —th’ blow —th’ blell —th ”
“Hold on, mater; say it slow. I don’t seem
to get the hang of it when you fire it off like that.
Steady, now, and I’ll catch ’em as they come out,
and write ’em down.”
“ Yis, Michael. ‘ Th’ blue —th’ blow.’ ”
“The blue ! b-l-u-e, mater, or b-l-e-w?”
“Naither, ye amadhaun. Just * th’blue.’ Wid
all yer college, don’t ye know ‘ th’ blue ’ yet ? ”
“Yes, of course, but how do you spell it ? ”
“Tare an ages ! Amn’t I wantin’ you to shpell
it!”
“Oh, all right, mater; got that —the bloo the
blow. What’s next ? ”
“ Th’ blell—th’ blow.”
“ Right; but are you sure it isn’t Irish ?”
“ Irish, me fut! ” snorted the old woman.
“ What’d Irish be doin’ in the paper?”
“ Oh, in the paper, was it ? Got that
paper? No? Now, if I had the context- —
Wasn’t there anything else bssidos—what is it—
the bloo the blow, the blell the blow ? ”
“Av coorse there was. There was em th’ blow,
ell the blow.”
Mick made the addition, and surveyed the whole
with a wrinkled forehead. “ ‘ The bloo the blow;
the blell the blow; em the blow; ell the blow.’
The ‘ blow ’ seems to be in difficulties. Oh, con-
found the blow ! Here, I say, mater, I give it up.
Too much blow about it for me.”
“ There’s four ‘ the blows ’ in it,” answered his
mother, ticking them off on her fingers; “but,
never mind, Michael. The paper is losht some
place, and mebbe I’ll find it agin ; but I’m disap-
pin ted in you, Micky.”
Mick turned to his notes again. “Just come
here, mater, and see if it was spelt like this.”
“You know, Michael, I can only read print.”
Mick carefully printed the whole puzzle, and
showed it to her.
“ Fwhat the divil do ye mane by this ? T-h-e,
the ; b-l-o-o, bloo / Why, divil whip you, I said
'th' bloo! Thub-dthub — dhubloo /’ Oh, Mike,
don’t you aven know yer alphabbet yet ? Didn’t
they tache ye the .letther 'thubloo'l An’didn’t
they tell ye that two ‘ o’s ’is ‘ thublo ’ ? An’ me
thinkin’ it’s killin’ a pig I was whin I sint ye to
college ! Gimme the pin ! ” And the old woman
scrawled ‘ ‘ WOOLLOOMOOLOO. ’ ’
BENDEE.


For more Than One Hundred years
SOAP
has maintained its supremacy in the face of the whole
world’s competition. Such a record could not he
achieved without cause. Temporary successes are com-
paratively easy, but for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man who has once tried Pears’ Soap in the form of a
Shaving Stick wants no other, he takes it with him on all
his journeys. The woman who travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
“ matchless for the complexion.”
/
HOPE FDR me DESPIIIIHC.
READ THIS TESTIMONIAL, WHICH SHOULD CONVINCE THE MOST SCEPTICAL THAT VITADATIO IS
THE GREATEST REMEDY OF THE AGE.
IF YOU ARE IN POOR HEALTH GIVE VITADATIO A FAIR TRIAL, AND YOU WILL
FIND, AS OTHERS HAVE, THAT IT DOES ALL THAT IS CLAIMED FOR IT.
Hopkins-street, Footscray, Feb. 7, 1900.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir, —It is with much gratitude I send you this testimonial regarding the exeat benefit I
have received by taking the great remedy, “W. WEBBER’S VITADATIO,” I am positive I
could not have existed much longer but for it. For 16 years I had been suffering from some un-
known disease. Having a good knowledge of herbs and their uses, I never consulted a doctor, in
fact, although I have a large family and have had the usual amount of sickness among them, by
constantly relying on herbal treatment I have never been obliged to call in medical aid. Yet in my
own case I was completely nonplussed and helpless. I may say I have been treated by a noted her-
balist, from whom I got but passing relief. He said “my lungs were filling up.” I have found by
taking VITADATIO that what he said was true, for it has brought from my lungs quantities of hyda-
tids, and also from other organs of my body ; they even came from my eyes and head. On account of
the stabbing pains in my eyes when I would stoop I became afraid of losing my sight, as it was then
very defective. I had lost all sense of feeling in some parts of my body and in both my index
fingers and thumbs, but since taking the Vitadatio my feeling has been restored. I have been in-
formed since my recovery that hydatids are a cause of paralysis, which has made me still more
thankful to you for bringing this truly efficacious medicine to Australia, and I have much reason
to thank God that I was led to try it. A good Samaritan, who told me he thought I was in a de-
cline, brought me a ss. 6d. bottle of Vitadatio, and after I had taken the third bottle the hydatids
began to appear, and then I knew what my disease really was. I felt alarmed, but kept on taking
the medicine, as I recognised there was no other hope for me. After taking 10 bottles I found
that I had increased two stone in weight; previous to this I only weighed 6st. 41b. The effect it
has had on my nerves is marvellous. I look back on the state I was in with horror, and I pity any
poor sufferers who are in a like condition, and can only recommend them to try Webber’s
Vitadatio, for it has cured me, and mine was an extreme case. If I was to mention the quantity
of hydatids removed from me by Vitadatio it would be looked upon as an exaggeration. Before
taking the Vitadatio my household duties were a burden to me, but now I can fulfil them with
pleasure, and everything wears a bright aspect. Thinking, perhaps, this testimony may induce
other sufferers to try this far-famed remedy, I give you my full permission to publish it, if you
think fit.— I am, dear sir, yours gratefully, (Mrs.) M. COXHEAD.
The price of this wonderful Remedy is ss. 6d. and 3s. 6d. per bottle. Obtainable from all
Medicine Vendors in Australasia.
Head institute: 47 Bourke-st., Melbourne;
And at 184 Pitt-st., Sydney; 116 Queen-st., Brisbane;
238 Rundle-st, Adelaide; 481 Hay-st., Perth; and
39 Manners-st., Wellington, N.Z.
The “Troopers” of the Empire.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Young Australia’s highest ambition is to be a mounted
policeman.”
From far-out tracks and out-back runs
Where all with drought was drooping,
They heard the call, Australia’s sons,
And valiantly oame trooping.
They came by road, they came by train,
From deserts grey and dusty;
From North among the sugar-cane,
From South all cold and gusty ;
From Mulga plain, from mountain-height,
From back of Never-Never,
From Carpentaria to the Bight,
From th’ Swan to Richmond River.
And as they rode o’er hill and plain,
With eager hope pulsating,
By horse or rail, this one refrain
Their hearts kept animating :
Five “ bob ” a day ! five “ bob ” a day *
A decent horse for riding ;
A uniform all bright and gay—
Who’d let the chance go sliding ?
The men who pull the strings whereby
They keep the crowd in blindness—
The hucksters and the “ statesmen ” sly,
They showed their loving kindness ;
They praised them for their “ answer grand
To Queen and country’s calling ” ;
“The Empire’s saviours,” “noble band”—
Their language was enthralling.
But we, who’re also Austral’s sons,
We know a Gov’ment billet
Has charms that no Australian shuns,
Give him the chance to fill it!
And this is what the bridles sing,
And this the hoofs are beating—
The lilt to which the stirrups ring
And ever keep repeating :
“ Five 1 bob ’ a day ! five' - bob ’ a day !
A decent horse for riding ;
A uniform all bright and gay—
Who’d let the chance go sliding ? ”
ULOOLA.
Some weeks ago a call of fire was made
at Mudgee (N.S.W.). Nearly an hour elapsed
before the call was answered, then the engine
appeared, headed by a minister, an editor, a
policeman, and a chimney sweep. The members
of the fire brigade had hurried off to get into
helmets and other millinery, and arrived on the
scene when the fire was extinguished.
What, so far as cabled information indi-
cates, are Australian volunteers to be used in
Rhodesia for ? Is it not exactly the same mission
many of them filled at Broken Hill in strike days ?
Special constables to preserve law and order when
the inevitable row begins between reduced-wages
men and the capitalistic companies. And for
this Australians are to be paid ss. a day when on
duty and Is. 2d. when off.
Milligan’s Rooster.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ike Burgess was giving it best. He had worked
the claim for six months and it did not yield him
tucker and beer, let alone clothes. His moles and
shirts were a mosaic of patches, and as for his best
coat, it had been “done in” long ago for repairs
to the rest of his wardrobe. He owed Milligan a
big score in bar and store, and Pat was turning
“ snake-headed.” Only the Saturday night before,
when he wanted to stick up a few drinks, the
landlord had ordered him out. When he tried to
argue the point, Pat slung a bottle at him, which
grazed his ear and drew blood.
Playing cunning, Ike dropped on the floor. Pat
felt frightened, and thinking bluff the best policy,
he ran from behind the bar in a terrible rage, and
prodded the prostrate man with his foot. “ Out
o’ me house, ye loafin’ blaggard ; and if I catch ye
inside me dhure anny time from Monday till
Saturday, I’ll lave no bone in ye that ain’t sausage-
meat, so I will.” Ike never stirred ; the bar
'offers flocked in, attracted by the prospect of a
fight. Pat stooped down and felt him all over,
but Ike was limp as wet string.
“ Come an, boys, and have a drink. Come an !
all of yez, free drinks all round. Poor Ike have
bumped his head agin the dhure, so he have,
an’knocked the wind out ov himself entirely,”
said Pat, trying to square the witnesses in case
of an inquiry, for he thought Ike was dead. The
boys gathered round the bar, and Ike, thinking he
was forgotten and would be out of the shout,
spoke too soon. “Mine’s a beer,” he gurgled
from his lowly resting-place.
Everybody started, and Pat’s rage, on finding
him alive and thirsty, burst out fresh. “ Och, ye
schamin devil! Ye’re not dead at all. Out o’
me house ye gang o’ robbers ; no free drinks for
annybody. Ye’d think a man had naught to do
but fill ye drunk from mornin’ till night, free
gratis for nothin’.”
The boys all dispersed, and Ike went thirsty
away, and, moreover, minus his weakly supply of
groceries. Going out of the yard a sudden thought
struck him, and, as he passed the fowl-house, he
stopped and felt about amongst the feathered
occupants. The first one he gripped he lifted
carefully off the perch, and, tucking it quietly
under his coat, struck out for his tent.
On Sunday morning, what wa3 his disgust to
find that, instead of a dinner, he had got hold of
Milligan’s champion fighting rooster, Rory
O’More, a veteran who could lay-out anything
that wore feathers. Pat’s one weakness was cock-
fighting, and he collected game-fowls with the
same enthusiasm as other men accumulate old
china. Rory was the pride of his life. He had
others of various grades of ferocity, and could
accommodate almost any man that wanted a fight
with a bird just good enough to win; but Rory
was so utterly invincible that his billet had becom
almost a sinecure. Nobody would tackle him, but
•p,nj i , , ,
Pat s judgment was usually good enough to enable
him to pick a representative from his second
string that would do the trick.
As Ike felt the bird’s powerful legs and muscles
tough as green-hide, he sadly realised that, hungry
as he was, he could no more chew Rory than he
could chew a railway-buffer. Then another idea
struck him, for hunger is the son of necessity and
the father of invention. Knowing Pat’s love for
a cock-fight, he determined to give him one that
he’d never forget, and baste him with his own
gravy, as it were.
have
plucking, and staining, he had bfen transformed
into a stumpy, rusty looking nondescript. Only
his fearless eye, and the unconquerable carriage
of his head, remained unaltered Nature stamps
indelible signs of race on all animals but
man. To the practised eye, Rory was still
a fighter of high lineage, but otherwise to all
appearances a lamentable “has-been.” Monday
morning, Ike packed his swag, and with the
bird under his coat, walked quickly past the pub.,
pretending he didn’t want to be seem Of course
Pat saw him, and called out,-
“ Where are ye off to in such a hurry ?”
“ Going to try my luck somewhere else,” said
Ike. “Pm full about you after Saturday night.”
“ What! Goin’ away widout payin’ me bill, or
savin’good-bve ?” J J
“Tnnu’f tL,t’ w,,. t>™ v ,
Matilda’s got to hoof it, ” said Ike despondingly
“ What are ye got undher yer coat ?” asked Pat.
“Just an old rooster,” said Ike. “He’ll do me
for dinner if tucker gets scarce.”
“ Why, he’s a game,” said Pat enthusiastically,
“ Bring him out, an’ we’ll have a go.”
“My bird can’t fight as I know of; and, any-
how, I’ve got no gaffs.”
“Nevermind; I’ll lend ye a gaff, an’ fight ye
fur a pound with Dan’l O’Connell—he’s only a
young felly.”
“ I got no pound,” said Ike.
“ I’ll lend ye a pound,” said Pat, now thoroughly
excited.
After much entreaty, Ike consented ; the birds
were prepared and placed on the ground, but
Daniel was never in it.
“Be gob,” said Pat, “he’s a hurricane. I’ll
give ye another go.”
“ No more for me; give us the pound.”
“ Here ! I’ll lay ye thirty shillm’s to a pound.”
sa id the stakes in my hat,
SO mu ie d )e n P deputes.”
~ \ i groom brought out Robert Emmett, but
that hero wasn t even common amusement for
Rory. After a few passes, he was laid out beside
.. ,• • , r- ,i , . ,
Be the livm Jingo, that s a tumble bird. 11l
ay ye double or quits Brian Boru does him, said
I at, now thoroughly aroused. So Brian was
brought out, and Rory flew at him like a whirl-
wind. Ihe battle was long and fierce; Brian was
more experienced thari his predecessors, and Ror y
was blown with his other fights, and, besides, was
out of training. But at last Pat s bird went down
from a deadly upper-cut, and Rory crowed loudly,
as ,T C ® pocketed the fiver.
<< a £? y l ou sa i3 %l', sald Ike.
JNo . Be heavens. 11l bate ye yet. Jimmy,
brmg me up Rory O More, and if this stumpy-
ailed heretic beats him, 111 ate him raw.
Jimmy returned with a frightened look. “I
can’t find him, he’s gone,” he gasped. _
“ Gone? —just whin I want him to win me money
back. I’ll lay a pound he’s out on the loose, and
he’ll be killin’ half the cocks in the district, an’
gettin’ me into trouble with the neighbors. Wait
till I go an’ look for him.”
Rory, tired with fighting, had squatted at his
master’s feet and was blinking like a broody hen.
“ You needn’t trouble,” soliloquised Ike, shoul-
dering his swag and clearing down the road like a
lamp-lighter. “He’s not billin’ the neighbors’
fowls. He’s been killin’ yer own; and he’s now
takin’ a well-earned rest, hatehin’ gravel just
forninst you.”
PERCY ABBOT.
A South Brisbane (Q.) magistrate has de-
cided that it is impossible to use obscene, in-
decent or abusive language in the legal sense unless
the abusive person speaks English. A Syrian
woman was prosecuted by another Syrian for
personal abuse, libel and indecency in their native
tongue, but though the expressions were bad
enough the South Brisbane beak decided that the
law couldn’t protect a person who was insulted in
any language except English. The writer has a
holiday in view, and he is going up to Brisbane to
call that magistrate a hog and a thief in French,
and a murderer and a deceiver of women in Italian,
and to charge him in Spanish with being a wife-
beater, Fenian, anarchist, escaped convict, em-
bezzler, lunatic, larcenist, larrikin, procrastinator,
incendiary, and uncivil person generally, and also
with robbery under arms, keeping an illicit still, and
being a “ pro-Boer.” He doesn’t know the magis-
trate from Adam, but he proposes doing this just
to see if the new legal ruling will hold water.
If any person chances to find a leper and
doesn’t want him for his own use, he is invited to
return him to the S.A. Govt., at Port Darwin,
Northern Territory, and no questions will be
asked. The Territory’s official leper has gone
a-missing. Up there the leper is isolated on an
alleged island; which is only an island at high-tide.
He is always isolated at high-tide, being taken to
the island in a boat in order to keep up the illu-
sion. At low-tide he either stays on the island
and remains isolated, or else he walks ashore and
leaves for parts unknown. The last leper was
solemnly deposited on the island at falling tide
with his stock of provisions and other necessaries,
and cut off from all communion with his kind.
Then when the tide fell a little further he can-
tered over the wet sands on to the mainland, and
over the shore and the adjacent hills, and fled like
a baseless aspersion into the mists of space.
“ A.F.W.” : Capt. Montmorency, of Mont-
morency’s scouts, whose death is cabled, was
attached to Gatacre’s column. Montmorency used
to report himself to Gatacre every morning for
instructions, but I never knew him to receive any
during the time I was at Sterkstroom (till 3/l/’00).
His men would have followed him to perdition.
He used to say—“ Well, come on, boys, and we’ll
see if we can’t shake those d d Boers up a
bit ! ” Then away they would go at any hour of
the night, and would never return without loot of
some kind—cattle, sheep, horses, &c. On one
occasion, when the troops were on short rations,
M. reported himself to Gatacre for orders, and on
receiving the usual reply : “Do as you like,” he
took all his men to the hotel, gave them a beauti-
ful “blow-out,” charged it to the Govt., and then
went out and captured 400 head of cattle. Mont-
morency was born in King Williamstown (S.A.)
of French parents, and educated in England.


Completely Broken Down
Unable to Steep, No Appetite, Loss of Ses ~li
Physicians Could Give no Relief. Was Cured by
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
1
7M
Wt
■
*
m ;
k
:k
R
I k\
», N x\
m
** Sometime ago I was taken very ill, losing my appetite, could not sleep,
and was unable to do my work. I was attended by two doctors, but to no effect.
I became very thin and weak. Sometimes when I was out I would become so
ill that I would have to go into a neighbor’s house until I was fit to walk again.
I cannot describe my sufferings, only to say that this state of things lasted
for months. .
“At last I remembered your advertisements in the papers, so determined to
try a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took
another, and still another, and the three bottles completely put me to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat and sleep and work
like a Trojan.”
This is the strong and clear testimonial of Mrs. Jane Messiter (whose
portrait is here given), of Foy St., Balmain, New South Wales.
It is because of the multitude of such cures that Ayer ’s Sarsaparilla is called
“The World's Greatest Family Medicine.”
”is unlike other sarsaparillas. It contains different medicines,
cures more quickly, acts more directly on the blood.
One bottle of “ Ayer’s ” does the work of three bottles of the ordinary kind..
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
ni Ibßl# That "Cures.
It Enriches the Blood.
Ayer’s Pills aid the Action of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
W HOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs,
WHEN YOU ASX FOE
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
Ao Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull.
Sold in bottles, at Is, 1 id., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6 d.,
_and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of ail London and
Colonial Houses.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
iLj
Ij’Oß Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cos iveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no fiction. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be “ WORTH A
G-UINHA A BOX.”
BEECH A M’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud of Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame._ These
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’s Pills have the Largest Sale of any Patent Medieinein
he world. Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, Si Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND.
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, ls l£d, and 2s 9d each.
mn
PLAIN HOM€ TALK.
KMBRAOINO
MEDICAL COMMON SE3NTSE.
By Dr. K. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION pUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for al. occasions and
,every body ; public speaking made easy. is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver's Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is ad.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love,Dress,etc. ls6dpost.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or .How to Educate
One’s Self, Is (id posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests fpr minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s For ruNB Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is Bd.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets ok Ancient and Modern Magic. Is (id post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40illus. Is fid posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, is (id.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post
Up-to-Date.Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Skrif.s, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
m
* Timmi ease
PexriwE
Sen-Sen &
RRINGW® AVENUE^
?\
INVALUABLE TO _
SINGERS & SPEAKERS
<peo
fCV
REMEMBER
THE WONDERFUL
CURATIVE PROPERTIES OF
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS
FOR
Coughs and all Lung Complaints.
Mr. J. G. BEATTIE, Hillgrove, writes: “ Dear Sirs.—l experienced immediate relief
when suffering from a severe cold in the head and throat upon taking a few doses of vour
iNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.”
BONI
Bonnington’s Pills.
Great Cure for Bile, Indigestion,
and all Liver Disorders.


The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND • •
CONTRACTORS.
58 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne:
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS'S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COG O A
BREAKFAST-SUPPER.
ROBERTS’
George and UnTCI
Market-Sts. !■
Board or Apartments at Option.
60
FOR THIS LADIJHSS.
W. C- ZETaIDIRIIDa-IE! & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
t&r- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Mammatt s s
SPOOKS & FORKS
AT THE
SHOW-ROOMS,
■ii : o„
\\\®
j? BBOT
J. & J. MAXFJELD, Proprs., SHEFFIELD.
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
mask.
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“ THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
THE MINER’S GREAT WANT
NOW SUPPLIED BY THE
“ Koerstz Patent Klondyke Quartz Crushers.”
Which render the miner independent of Battery-power, and enable
him to realise on his gold from day to day.
This is a very superior machine, capable of being worked by hand, horse, or other
power. It does its work admirably. Will crush to any size, or reduce to the finest
powder. Two men can put through 10 to 12 cwt. ; and, if using horse-power, one
ton per day can be crushed. The complete machine weighs 7cwt., but can be taken
apart, and is then readily portable. No. lis a smaller machine at £l5, No. 3, with
a capacity of two to three tons per day, price £6o>
The Prospector’s Crusher.
No. 1 at £3 and No. 2 at £5, leave nothing to be desired for
testing small quantities of stone.
FREDK. MASON 9 SOLE AGENT.
Also for
Koerstz Pumps for Mining and all other purposes.
237 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
nm
The No. 2 Miner’s “Klondyke” Crusher, Price £3O.
.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO. LTD.
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream, consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
pleased to say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process ; but it is satisfactory
to kuow that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beatltiflllly-flavorcd. blitter and the
ordinary make is only -|d. per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, send your Orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
at any price. The famous “ Berry ” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • • •
bad butter is dear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
Parke & Lacy Co. LTD.,
Sydney:
m
m
y . ■ .
WRITE "FOR PARTICULARS AND PRICES.
60 Clarence Street.
Have in Stock for Immediate Delivery—.
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
ENGINES, BOILERS, COMPRESSORS, DRILLS,
CRUSHING ROLLS,
CONCENTRATORS, HUNTINGTON MILLS,
—AND—
AH kinds of General Machinery and
Engineer Fittings and Supplies.
Blake Steam Pumps
m*
BBS
Single & Duplex,
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every pumping
purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australasian Representatives for
Worthington Pumping Engine Co.
32 and 34 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WORTHINGTON
TRADE MARK.
Worthington Pnmps
for Every Service.
BOTH
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL
AND WITH
Gun-metal or Iron Water Ends.
. . Send for Catalogues . .
BOILER FEED PUMP.
