

McEWAN’S ALE.
GAELIC WHISKY.
PIG STOUT.
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
Best.
Cadbury's Cocoa
“The Standard
of
Highest Purity-”
The Lancet.
107 Kent
Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
9
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
nm
n
Roller. Steel and Special CHAINS
TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WTMPOIiF/S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite S
Kilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
GIBSON, BATTLE & C° m h« street, SYDNEY.
sole Agents for The Jeffrey Manufacturing Co., Columbus, Ohio, United States, America.
Elevating ebXL'<3L Conveying IMCaiCliiiaeiry . . .
Detachable Chain Belting, Steel Cable Conveyors, Seamless Steel Elevator Buckets, Carriers, Labor-saving Appliances, Coal, Ore and
Grain Handling Machinery, Power Transmission Machinery, Coal Washing and Mining Machinery.
m
Established 1831.
That’s All!
1
1
OBTAINAB
AUSTRALIAN
i E AT ALL HOTELS AND
WINES.
LICENSED
GROCERS.
vH
★
lL
tyci,
★
S. 1
KOBA.HLT.
“
D.S .MAI R
g>e>
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST.
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned, 2/6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
T3EST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
it per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st., Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
oo
I'll Try It.
The Only Certain
Moustache P re-
ducer.
Capillarine !
Posted (undercover)
to any part of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
FrSce, 10*. 6d.
Solb Agbkts:
The Result.
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George-at,, Sydney
n
PERPETURE OUTER.
ALL your letters, bills and papers should
be DATED ! This Dater adjusts to ANY
desired date INSTANTLY, and will save you
time, money and trouble. It is Rapid,
Legible, and costs practically nothing.
Dates from 1900 to 1905 ; also prints re-
ceived, answered, paid, etc. Price with
Self-Inking Pad, Two Shillings (post free).
DATINC STAMP CO., Box 1402 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
life
PIONEER
LEATHER
' B E LTIN G i
The Leading .Beit oi Australia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address.
J. C. LUQOWICI & SON, LTD.,
l.l'y "SToarls: Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
Tales of tlie System.
”
SEND FOIt A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st Sydney.
m
How Do! May I send yon
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILD ANDRADE,
201 BOURKE-ST,, MELBOURNE.
n
nm
IiIGHLAN
WHISKY
IS GOOD AND
Am.nt.s fnr TJ.S.W. • PLTTMUER. T.O
r.: PLUMMER, LOVE, and
THE GREAT
IS HEEE TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
AN AVS ;
nm
The following Cable appeared in the local papers of July 16:
“LONDON, July 14.—Messrs. Joshua. Bros., of Melbourne, have b
by Royal Warrant to supply their Boomerang Brandy to the hot
Queen, the Prince of Wales, and the Duke of York.”
ejn appointed
ftholds of the
Not a Guessing Competition.
A RECORD. —We
sold 5000 of our
Celebrated WATCHES
and CHAINS at 6/6 in
13 months, and now, to
universally advertise
our famous 4/6 Para-
guayan 14ct. GOLD
CHAINS to every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent.’s or Lady’s) we
will present, on pay-
ment of 6/- extra, the
RAILWAY WATCH,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
a JEWELLED, FULL-DAY, PERFECT LEVER MOVE-
MENT, SHORT-WIND WATCH, wound and hands set
from stem, strong and reliable, same as used on the rail-
ways of Great Britain. They give entire satisfaction.
That is why we send them out on appro., and if returned
within 14 days money is refunded. We make this extra-
ordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE LIST and to
make ourselves talked about. The Watch and Chain is
sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of 10/6 and 6d.
n
m n
53 ROYAL ARCADE,
•^.SYDNEY.
rom Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
■'hie; Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, ss, 10s, Ate.
Money Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH or FRENCH BOOKS.
R. (SENNCRT,
89c Faubourg, St. Martin, Paris, France
The Bulletin
Vol. 21.—N0. 1069. j
[Saturday, August 11, 1900.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS BY POST.
CORELLI'S New Book, “Boy,” 3a. and 4s.
BERTRAM MILFORD’S “ Aletta,” A Tale of Boer War,
3s. and 4s.
BADEN POWELL’S “ Ashanti Campaign,” “ Matahele
Campaign,” 9d. each.
ALL POST FREE. Stamps or Postal Notes.
W. W. PEARSON
m
The Bulletin publications.
Fair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Third Edition. Silk
cloth, gilt top, silk marker, 220 pp., 4s. 6d.,
post free. *** A charming presentation
volume.
The Hidden Tide:
A Selection of Verses by Roderic Quinn.
No. I. of The Bulletin Booklets. Pam-
phlet Bvo., Is. 9d., post free. Out op Print.
Two large-paper copies remain, 11s., post
free.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Brady. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Hits, Skits, and Jingles :
By W. T. Goodge. Paper, 2s. 10d., post
free. *** First-class for recitation.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. ***The best book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert, Vincent, Leist, Fisher and
Fullwood ; 6s. post-free. *** “ The jolliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
itSTSupplied direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes, or P. 0.0.
for amounts stated.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
Edwards, Dunlop &Co., Limited, Sydney and Brisbane.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
For
GOUGHS, GOLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
and all
AFFECTIONS of the
THROAT and
LUNGS.
(REGISTERED).
aUvSUBts
gig
IN TINS, IS. 6d.
The Great
Antiseptic Remedy
for the Cure of
INFLUENZA and
Prevention of
CONSUMPTION.
Invaluable for Singers
and Public Speakers.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, OB POST FREE FROM THE PROPRIETOR,
Gr. HUDSON, CHEMIST, IPSWICH, Q.
SYDNEY DEPOT : 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
T hey ease a Tired Throat, and are helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia.
THE RED PAGE.
THE MESSENGER.
(For the Picture by G. F. Walk).
Strong angel of the peace of God,
Not wholly undivine'd thy mien ;
Along the weary path I trod
Thou hast been with me though unseen.
My hopes have been a mad turmoil,
A clutch and conflict all my life,
The very craft I loved a toil,
And love itself a seed of strife.
But sometimes in a sudden hour
I have been great with Godlike calm,
As if thy tranquil world of power
Flowed in about me like a psalm.
And peace has fallen on my face
And stillness on my struggling breath;
And, living, I have known a space
The hush and mastery of Death.
Stretch out thy hand upon me, thou
Who comest as the still night comes !
I have not flinched at buffets ; now
Let Strife go .by, with all his drums.
Richard Hooey.
The Coming Australian.
[This is the remainder of that portion of Dr. H.
Marten’s paper on Australian race-development which is
of interest to the general reader. The first part was re-
printed July 28. The whole can be studied in The Aus-
tralasian Medical Gazette for July.]
The shape of the skull varies immensely, only
what one would expect from the great amount of
interbreeding that has taken place. I have been
unable to obtain the measurements of any skulls,
and I can find no accounts of any investigation of
the cranial indices ; but I have myself carefully
measured one hundred heads of persons of either
the first or second generation of Australian-born
people of European descent, and I find the average
cephalic index is 79 "5, which places them amongst
the mesocephals [medium-shaped heads] ; that is,
they are neither dolichocephalic or long-headed,
or brachycephalic or round-headed. Before under-
taking the measurements I was inclined to think
that the majority were long-headed, but out of the
100 heads there were 21 dolichocephalic, 45 meso-
cephalie, 34 brachycephalic. The cephalic index
of 79 - 5 places the Australians in the same great
division as the English and Scotch, whose index
is 76 to 77, and probably the reason that our heads
have a rather higher index is from the admixture
of southern Germans, who have the high index of
83. The Australian aboriginal has the low index
of 74. Nine out of the 100 heads I measured were
of German parentage.
The teeth, as a rule, are extremely bad, this
being caused by the enormous amount of butcher’s
meat consumed, and may be helped by the small
amount of lime present in the drinking water,
which is so»often purely rain water from the roofs.
It is cheering to know that good teeth, according
to the latest French statistics, contrary to what is
generally imagined, go with a high death rate.
The bony pelvis is generally well-formed and
roomy. It is a very rare thing to come across diffi-
cult labours from contracted pelves, cases of
craniotomy and caesarean section being very few
and far between.
• » » *
Their stature, at present, is rather higher than
the average European. I find the average height
of the English of the liberal professions is 69.14
inches. The average height of the northern Scots
is 70‘5 inches. The average height of Australian-
born adult males whom I have examined for life-
insurance is 68 T inches. The average height of
immigrants to Australia, according to Dr. J. C.
Verco’s figures, is 67T3 inches. The average height
for England in general is 67*76 ; but for England,
Scotland, Ireland, and Wales the average is 6875
inches, whereas Dr. J. C. Verco found the average
for Australian-born descendants of British immi-
grants was 68‘21, very near my own figures ; but,
although both are a trifle below the ordinary
British standard, they are nearly one inch
above the English immigrants, and rather
more than above the English in
general. Men who live in the saddle in the bush
have a tendency to form a long cervico-dorsal
curve, throwing their heads a little forward, and
their legs, from saddle-work, are also inclined to
I bow. The general development is that of thin,
lithe, muscular men, who as a rule carry no un-
necessary fat, except in certain few families where
this is the very opposite, and one or all appear to
run to enormous fatness.
Their muscles are not, as a rule, large, but they
are hard and useful, and the os calcis (heel-bone)
is not particularly prominent.
The genital organs and breasts show nothing
characteristic, although the latter are perhaps
more prone to early atrophy than in colder
climates.
With regard to their physiological functions,
their senses are keenly developed, especially
those of sight and hearing, although in these
respects they are very far behind the Australian
aboriginal. Perhaps the lessons gained from the
aboriginal, and the nature of the country and its
climate, may have had something to do with the
high state of perfection that has been so far
attained.
With regard to the reproductive organs, the
families are' as large here as in the northern hemi-
sphere. There is no doubt that girls arrive at
puberty from one to two years earlier here than
there, probably due to the heat of the climate ; a,nd
what has very forcibly struck me is that the period
of boy and girlhood, as one remembers in the
colder north, is much shorter, and boys seem to
jump from children to young men with moustaches
much more rapidly here than at home. The youth
of 17 or 18 years here is to all intents and purposes
a fully-developed man. There is no doubt en-
vironment has a great deal to do with this, but the
genus homo is cosmopolitan and can adapt itself
to almost any climate, from icy-cold to the most
intense heat.
* * * *
One point I have tried to determine is as to the
time of most frequent conceptions. It has long-
been believ-ed that conception takes place at one
time of the year more frequently than at others,
some authorities even thinking that they can dis-
cover a period of “ rut ” as in the lower animals.
If this be so, I thought it would be interesting to
discover if the change from the northern to the
southern hemisphere made any difference to the
time of most frequent conceptions. In Europe
there seem to be two periods of more frequent
conception, namely the early spring and the win-
ter months. On going through five years of our
birth-rates, I find the maximum of births takes place
in March, the conceptions having occurred in June,
our midwinter ; May, July and August being the
next highest, corresponding in conception to
August, October and November being our
spring, so that we have the winter and spring
conceptions here in our winter and spring, but at
different periods of time to those in Europe. The
fewest conceptions take place in January, Feb-
ruary and March, our summer months, again
closely allied to the colder climatic experiences.
With regard to the linguistic character, there is
very little doubt that the Australians are de-
veloping a twang peculiar to themselves, more
marked in some parts, be., Melbourne, than in
others. Ido not think the reason for this has
ever been satisfactorily determined, but it is so,
nevertheless. Their voices, as a rule, are soft,
very few loud, deep, bass voices being met with.
With regard to diet, the Australians are
facile princess in the amount 6f meat they
consume, far outstripping even the Americans
in this line, probably due to the cheapness of the
article and the lack of flesh and game.
With regard to their drinks, they head the lust
in the amount of tea consumed per unit through-
out the world, except, perhaps, the Chinese them-
selves. Meat and tea three times a day is the
rule. Taking them as a whole, except in the
larger cities and townships, they are not a beer-
drinking people ; whisky is the staple alcoholic
beverage of the country, no doubt due to the ease
of transport over rough roads of strong spirit in a
small bulk. Perhaps, later on, when our vignerons
have learnt to make a lighter wine, this 'may re-
place the stronger spirit.
With regard to games, there is no doubt as to
their prowess in the criclcet-field, and their fond-
ness for horse-racing is proverbial.
* * * *
As a rule, the men, women, and children are an
anaemic population. The exact cause of this is diffi-
cult to determine. They have plenty of fresh air,
exercise and meat, and I am inclined to think it is
the excessive heat of the summer. It gives a
different appearance from what one sees amongst
the Anglo-Indians, who have often a dark, putty-
colored complexion, probably due to the effects of
malarial poisoning and the moist, hot atmosphere
in distinction to our dry heat.
Of course, it is difficult so early to predict what
the average length of life will be, but I feel sure
that they will not outlive the length of life
that the sturdy old colonists who came out
from the colder climates when “ set ” have
enjoyed ; and this reminds one again of the
simile of the oak. The only records of longevity
I can find are contained in a paper read by
Dovey before the Insurance Institute of New
South Wales, as reported in the British Medical
Journal of April 7th, 1900. He there says that
repeated actuarial investigations have shown that
in New South Wales and Victoria the death-rates
are decidedly lower in childhood, early manhood,
and middle life than in the United Kingdom ; at
higher ages it is more difficult to determine.
However, he thinks that Australian-born children
inherit a fairer prospect of life and health than
those of any other country. My own idea is that
Australians grow up quickly, come to maturity
quickly, and arrive at old age before their ances-
tors did ; they always appear to live at high pres-
sure and have very little reserve of energy, and
when this is most required it is lamentably absent.
I am afraid that it is only too true that
beauty fades here earlier than in colder climates ;
but there is hope for some, as a trip to Europe
will often rejuvenate the inhabitants of this
country for a long period.
It has been asserted that, when persons migrate
from one portion of the world to a far distant
land, the tendency is to revert to the abori-
ginal type of the new country invaded. This
has been more especially contended with regard
to the Americans. But even in so short a period
of time as the European has inhabited this
country, he shows some points that are common
to the aboriginal., viz,, quickening of the sense of
sight and hearing, the great growth of hair over
the body, thfe soft voice when speaking, the early
arrival of puberty, probably all helped by climatic
influences, and all characteristic of the original
inhabitants of this continent. ...
—, +.
Stephen Crane’s early death extinguishes the
chances and potencies of a writer who possessed
in as great a degree as any man who ever lived the
gift of making language represent life. The
figures of Homer and Shakespeare are, for the
most part, mere puppets beside those which
Crane drew. And for this reason : that in Hector
and Falstaff there is something of Homer,
much of Shakespeare; these writers did not see
and describe, they imagined and created, adding
themselves, merging themselves in the tradition,
the character. Hector is a figure of legend as
Homer conceived him—seen through the medium
of Homer’s mind. The character of Falstaff is less
the man than Shakespeare’s conception of the man,
an image which he mentally clothed with his own
flesh and blood. Rosalind, Desdemona, Cordelia
—these are Shakespeare’s creations, clothed in the
glory of Shakespeare’s mind. Stephen Crane left
himself out. He aimed to represent the thing as
it is, men and women as they are. He gilds his
-subject with no graces of poetry, pens no
fanciful epithet unless it more sharply re-
veals the fact. His power of visualisation
is matched by his power of expression:
his words make his thought alive. Why, then,
was Stephen Crane such an astonishingly clever
writer without being a great writer ? Bepause he
lacked the epic sense, to which imagination is
essential. His minute painting of life wanted the
best of art—the power to rise above life. His
mind was too close to the object; its purview
needed breadth and perspective. His stories
are vignettes or silhouettes, cut off from their re-
lations with the universe—slices of the life-tree
seen under a microscope—from which you may
indeed argue the character of the tree, but in
which you do not see the tree. That a chosen
volume of his work will deserve to be long studied
and remembered is certain. The briljiant dexterity
of it may never be surpassed. But it will not
rank Crane with even the minor immortals.
“F.S.D.” from Miinehen, June 18—
A more vivaciously cantankerous and waspish set than
these modern German poets—Hauptmann, Dehmel, Holz,
Schlaf Halbe, Hartleben, Bierbaum, Conrad, &c.—it would
be hard to find. And they arp so much in earnest and
take themselves so seriously that it is a sight for the
laughter-loving gods. ' I am not going to sneer at the
Germans, for they have done and are doing great things—
in science, in war and State organisation, in art, in trade,
in literature; and they are, besides, the only beer-drinki’ g
nation surviving upon the earth. Germania Trionfans toes
the line of the twentieth century, and is confident in
herself and her' future. In the midst of all this
material and intellectual prosperity, you would gladly
find a great literary movement. But it is a somewhat
disappointing search. The time is not yet. As in Eng-
land, there is much literary and poetic work ; hut in even
a greater degree than in England, supreme power is lack-
ing.
In the drama, in the novel, and even in lyric poetry,
the so-called Naturalist holds sway. I have before me
five volumes (poems and criticisms and pitched battles)
by Arno Holz, a trumpet-voiced leader of young Germany.
He writes bravely (if he were English I should say
braggingly) of the Revolution in Lyric poetry (his own,
of course). There are some good things here and there in
his books, and some interesting fooling. Through thirty
pages the battle rages between Holz and Moller Bruck
because the latter declares that the formula for a work of
art is not (as Holz says) A=JSf — x , but (as Bruck says)
A=N+y (A =Art. N= Nature, x =amount of failure to
attain to Nature, arising from deficiencies in Matter and
technique, y individual temperament of the artist.)
For instance, take an Australian example, say Streeton’s
Oremorne Pastoral in the Sydney Gallery (by the way,
Streeton, and not Oapt. Phillip, is the discoverer of Syd-
ney Harbour). Arno Holz would say this work of Art
(=A) is an attempt to perfectly pourtray nature, and
falls short by the measure x, arising partly from ineffec-
tiveness of the material (canvas, oil, paint, &c.) and
partly from faults of composition and technique, and
partly, perhaps, from the faults of the Australian claret
the painter was in the habit of quaffing. Therefore
A—N — x. And since no work of Art attains to Nature
there is always a ( — x).
The other retorts that the artist refines, idealises, adds
a something to Nature out of his own temperament, and
thereby arises a work of art—i.e., A = N+y. A third
combatant comes along and suggests A=(N'—X)+y, and
Arno Holz turns wrathfully upon him likewise. Thus
one sees how, in the hansls of these gentle asthetes, the
Sistine Madonna may in time serve for exercises in quad-
ratic equations, and the Parthenon be a puzzle in the
binomial theorem.
A fairly-representative poem of this writer (Holz) may
illustrate his formula. It must be noted that he and his
disciples dispense with rhyme, and arrange their
“poems” around a central axis. Rhyme, he objects,
would make the poem lopsided.
Has not France her “revanche” when Germany can
bring forth poets of this order ?
And Holz says proudly, all unconscious of his delicious
irony—“ Between Goethe and us modern poets there
already yawns a greater disparity than there was between
Goethe and the Greeks.”
♦
The protruding morals in Kipling’s . South
Afrioan tales in S.M. Herald are fatal to his art —
which nowadays seems to be (in any case) but the
dry bones of its old self—with all the juice of life
exhausted.
S.A. Rosa’s pamphlet "exposure of the bad
English contained in the Australian Federal Con-
stitution ” has reached a second edition, and is as
well worth buying as ever. Four stamps will
fetch it from the author, 342 Parramatta-road,
Petersham, Sydney.
Reynolds's Newspaper celebrated its fiftieth year
of life by a gathering of some 400 Democrats and
Freethinkers in June. Labouchere presided, and
the guest of the evening was Reynolds's editor,
William Marcus Thompson. An excellent paper,
Reynolds's ; and the proprietors should make an
effort to sell it for a penny in Australia.
Now cabled that there was no “ horrible Chinese
massacre,” and that Dr. George Morrison is alive
and writing. The joss-sticks burnt at his grave-
in the shape of biography, poetry and prime
moral reflections—cannot now be recovered ; but
the moral reflections are hereby retracted in spirit,'
if not in stick. Dr. Morrison can keep the
poetry.
W. O. Hodgkinson’s birth-date should appar-
ently have been given as March, 1838; though
stated as 1836 in “Pugh’s Almanac,” and (not
long before his death) by Hodgkinson himself.
Alex. M. —
Oracular Evacustes A. Phipson (9/6/0) has all the in-
solence appropriate to his ignorance of the inevitable laws
of orthographic and orthoepic modification. In saying
that it is mere affectation still to give prestige, envelope,
vase, &c., the original pronunciation, Phipson merely
says, in effect, “ It is not my usage so to pronounce these
words ; and whatever is n’t my usage is mere affectation.”
But the criterion in all such matters is—by the nature of
the case must be—the usage of a substantial majority of
educated persons. In the case of words of one
language naturalised in another while there is
always a tendency to adapt them in the long run
to the phonetic usage of the latter—this change, for
various reasons, occurs much more readily in some words
than in others. Thus, although within my remembrance
the final syllable of promenade has exchanged its French
sound for the English (Has it ?—Ed.), fagade is still often
pronounced French-iashion. Again, trait, in spite of its
long domiciliation in English, retains, with most educated
persons, that French pronunciation which the compara-
tively recently-adopted massage is already surrendering.
Now for a few of Phipson’s own errors. He does not
appear to know, for instance, that—since the transposi-
tion of the final two letters in curag&o-oa took place in
the original—it would be idle of us to go behind the
domestic usage of a foreign tongue. Again, in objecting
to the final “ e” in schottische, Phipson apparently does n’t
know that, though the original German word is schottisch
/Scottish), the term, with its added “ e,” came to us
through France. Relievo, again, though a little old-
fashioned, is just as good Italian as rilievo ; and the re-
former who wants to be-devil fiancS into fiance should
surely not object to the (phonetic English) macaroni-
version of maccheroni . And so on — ad preeposterum.
London Academy, reviewing Major’s “Leaves
from a Squatter’s Note-book,” says he writes of
“an Australia extinct as its own dodo.” Un-
luckily for the point, Australia never had a d.odo ;
though you may find almost every other species of
extinct old bird in the Legislative Councils.
A Parkes story. One of the old man’s friends,
calling upon him, found him seated at his desk
in the light of a stained-glass _ window —look-
ing, with his rapt air and loose hair, like a mediae-
val saint. “ Sit down, Mr. ,” said Parkes;
“ lam just composing a sonnet. Do you know any-
thing about sonnets ? ” The visitor did not know
much about sonnets ; so Parkes explained their
intricacies and begged to be excused while
he completed the final tercet. Then the sonnet
was read, and pronounced a marvel (Parkes’s
sonnets were always marvels). Then the old man
drew out a drawer on the right of his desk, and
solemnly invited his visitor to inspect the
contents. There were two writs there—
writs against Parkes, for squandered money.
Then the old man drew out a drawer to
his left, and produced two more writs. Then,
fixing the visitor with his glittering eye, Parkes
said, “Do you think, Mr. ——, that a sonnet was
ever composed under such circumstances before ? ’
The amazed visitor gave Parkes to understand
that Nero fiddling while Rome burnt was not a
circumstance to him. Then Parkes read him four
more sonnets, all marvellous.
The Australasian biographical supplement to
Webster’s Dictionary, by Joseph Finney, of
N.S.W. Instruction Dept., says that Samuel
Marsden, the reverend gentleman who flogged his
convicts in the early days, died 1838. This pro-
bably comes of relying on Heaton’s local ‘ ‘ Dic-
tionary of Dates,” which makes the same blunder.
The men who worked at the compilation which
bears Heaton’s name, or Heaton’s printers, must
not be followed blindly; though the book is
handy for reference, as affirmed, Marsden died
12 May, 1838. Another blunder over this dem’d
unpleasant body occurs in Rusden’s “ History of
Australia,” which (1., 597) records one of the pug-
nacious parson’s many quarrels in “ 1875.”
The Poem.
In the Thiergarten on a seat I’m sitting and smoking,
And rejoice at the beautiful morning sunshine.
Before me gleams the Canal
Reflecting the sk.v,
Both banks gently quivering.
Over the bridge slowly there rides a Lieutenant
Twisted like a corkscrew in the water
(Collar red as sealing-wax)
his reflection.
A cookoo
calls.
I dreamed of Italy,
And you were there . , .
Oh, Italy, dream Italy 1
Are you so fair ?
A golden gondola
For ever fled
Up silver waterways:
An old moon led.
Beneath a midnight bridge
We slower swept,
And kissed and whispered where
The black shades crept.
And Dante passed and smiled,
And Beatrice :
Their little gondola
Was gold as this.
Old angel Italy
Was everywhere—
Poets and painters dead,
They all were there.
When I see Italy . . .
Oh, broken dream 1
For you are sleeping by
An Austral stream ;
And golden gondola,
And nightingale,
And ah, the shadowy bridge,
Are but a tale.
N.S.tf.
M.L.M.


Slash. Note. Bayonet. Club. W. JilO. Baker’S Solid Steel
n
Ear djarking pliers
FOR SHEEP
AND CATTLE
Made in accordance with the Regulations of the New
South Wales and Queensland Stock Departments.
PLIERS made to any other Designs. Please send your
Registered Number or Sketch and Measurements, and
price will be promptly sent.
My Sheet of PLIER CUTS and Illustrated Catalogue of
GOOD STEEL Cutlery sent Free Post Paid to any Address.
W, JNO. BAKER, cutler,
3 Hunter Street, Sydney.
ASTORAL
SSOC’N IbTD.
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS
—(SELLING ONLY)—
LOWEST CHARGES. HIGHEST RETURNS.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE~fO WOOLGROWERS
New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution of the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time,
and our Refusal to join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Charges on the Sale of Wool by Reducing same, and also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DATED COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
Penalises the Woolgrower, as the BETTER the character of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :
COMMISSION I Per Cent.
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing, Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charge will be ... ... ... ••• ••• 3s. 9d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb. ... ... ... 2s. 6d. per Bale.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under ... ... ... Is. 6d. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or London.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Sales of Marsupial Skins Held Weekly.
mn
PLAIN NOM€ TALK.
KMBRACING
medical coivuvraisr sensk.
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 36 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE’ FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature asit exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngand old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybody ; public speaking made easy, is 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is 6d.
Dr. Carver’s Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.
Is ; post Is 3d.
Beauty’s Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Become a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. The
Art of Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette— Parties,Love,Dress,etc. ls6dpost.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One’s Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner’s Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets of Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is 6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Letter
Writer, Is 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted. V
Editii O’Gorman’s Convent Life Unveiled, Is 6d post.
Up-to-DAte Comic Reciter (newest), ls6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is 6d posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every Man His Own Carpenter, Is 0d posted.
NOTE. —SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous. SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books —most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL !
ALL CHEMISTS.
Holland’s Marvellous Hair Restorer.
Has gained a World-wide Reputation for Arresting the Pre-
mature Decay, Promoting the Growth, and giving Lustre
to the Hair. If your Hair is falling off, TRY IT. If it is
Thin, TRY IT. Price—3s., 45., ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND'S PARASENE.
For ECZEMA, RINGWORM, and all PARASITICAL
DISEASES OF THE HEAD, and for MAKING HAIR
J ROW ON LALD PATCHES. Price, ss. Postage, 9d. extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE.
For Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts
Quickly, Naturally, and Effectively. Price, ss. fid. Postage,
9d. extra.
/
Washington ii. Soul & Co.,
Pitt-street, Sydney
mn
CONSULT E. HOLLAND FOR ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
E. HOLLAND, Hair Specialist, 193 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Kangaroo, Wallaby, —^
Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd.
S YDKTE Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Nlort*Co.
TTurtrn D.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming: Wool Season :
21
2
O
O
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co.
LIMITED.
Offices: 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
STORES : CENTRAL WHARF.
SOLE CHARGE—3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
“LAWRU3” DRESS FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS A STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS BTAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only :
** if 4t> EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
oCdituo)
STOGDALE & DUFFUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, & 422, Oeorge St., Sydney.
m
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
Tlie Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
iDINNEFORDS
'magnesia,
A
Sold Throughout the World.
NmB.—ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
0 Do
v?
m
Oft
tVhen
writing
please
mention
The
Bulletin.
i
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s'
- ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
> Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
-1 strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
® CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
f THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
IDO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER 1
3 LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can,
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
, Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
J Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
\ They impart vigor and potency to every function,
' brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments 0 3 0
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to—
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
K€MPS Patent Sb€cp-Brai)dii)S LiqCiid
Guaranteed to Make a Clear, Lasting' Brand; withstand all Bain and Heat; Not Injure the Wool; to Scour Out;
Increase the Value of Wool and Skins.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Grim wade & Go,
MELBOURNE.
Agents— Ei R |QH & CO. LTD
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
Black, Reti, and Bine. 3s 6d per gall, in Melb. and Sydney; 3s 9d per gall, in Brisbane.


TATTERS ALL’S
Address:
Care GEO. ADAMS, Hobart.
Sept. 11
metropolitan S.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address
£
s
s
Metropolitan S. (special).
DRAWN MORNING OF THE RACE.
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above
Name
Address
Demonstration H. oct 1
50,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
N am e
Address
Caulfield C. October 20.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me
.shares in the above.
£
Name
Address
It
*
Caulfield 0. : (SPECIAL)..
V 100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name :
’ Address
Melbourne C.
November 6
100,000 Subscribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me.
.shares in the above
Name.
Address.
£ « * '
Melbourne C. November 6.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name ___________
Address
Melbourne C. (special.)
100,000 Siibscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot mo ...... ■- ... ah arret in the above.
i '
Name
Address
fit*
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars.
Address “ Tatter sail,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, pearls
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
BgSt Priges-
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
m
\
\
S.
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring; Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines.
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S. Wales, procurable only at 24 Olarence-st., Sydney.
*z*s»**'
Af* p
Mi^
*:;>***
ev'^o^
\&«
Never
Look
Old
There is no need
of it. You can
look at thirty as if
you are sixteen.
Then why look as
if you are sixty ?
HAIR
*►-
L
Thick and glossy hair belongs to
youth. Thin and faded hair to old age.
AYW3
H&ir
visor
willmakeyour
hair soft and
glossy, rich
and abundant.
It will keep
your scalp free
from dandruff,
and will surely
prevent your
hair from fall-
ing out.
It Never Fails to Restore the
Natural Color to the Hair
It gives to the hair that soft, glossy
appearance so natural to early life. For
men, this means the look of strength
and power. For women, it is the one
ornament of youthful beauty.
Remember that pimples, rashes, and like
disfigurements of the face may be thoroughly
removed by taking a course of treatment with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It will make the skin
smooth and the blood rich.
Prepared by Dr. ,1. C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell, Mass.. U. S. A.
LADIES !
■' Naturally'Curly Fringes, 4s 6d
to 3fls each. English Hair Tails, from Ss 6d to t'3 3s each
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Hairdressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of everv description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lo’unge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales • • . \
Barbers’ Supply House I
680-2 (Jeorge-st.,
SYDNEY.
AOStraliai} Provident Society.
MONET TO LEND
Om security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Our New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-streefc. Svdney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
K.
Sulkies, £4 155., £6 lfis.,
£S 155., £lO 10s.
Buggies, Bnckboards, £9
10s., £lO 10s.
Buggy Harness, 30/-
40/-, 70/- per Set.
Jt2T Send for Price List. T£Ji
H. HIIiLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works: MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
The largest Factory in the colony. Send for a Catalogue.
nm
Bent-Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Light Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER, 130 Sussex-street.
Works : MELBOURNE-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY.
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. (Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
UNQUESTIONABLY THE BEST DRESSING FOR THE HAIR
ERADICATES
SCURF AND DANDRIFF
PREVENTS
HAIR FALLING
PROMOTES GROWTH.
IS DELIGHTFULLY
COOLING &
REFRESHING.
CONTAINS
NO DYE
n
The
Celebrated
Authoress,
MRS E. LYNN
LINTON,
says:—
“ I used
your ‘ KCKO ’
now since June
last, and I hare
not onlv st pped
the falling out,
which had been
excessive after a
severe illness,but
Ihavean entirely
new growth" of
hair, while the
old hair is longer
As 1 am not a
young woman,
but an old one, I
think this is a
convincing test
of your prepara-
tion.”
V; ™
2/6 & 4/6
OF ALL
CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC. **wss- i.wr s ,
KOKO MARICOPAS COY«. LTD.. 16, BEV3S MARKS, LONppN,_ENCLAND.]
‘HARLEHE’
a; hair.
The very Finest Dressing.
Restores the Hair*
Promotes the Growth*
Arrests the Fall*
Strengthens the Roots*
Preserves the Hair.
Renders it Beautifully Soft*
Removes Dandruff.
Allays all Irritation.
Preserves, Strengthens, and Invigorates
Childrens’ Hair. .
Full description and directions/or use in
20 languages supplied with every bottle.
1/-, 2/6, and (triple 2/6 size) 4/6 per
Bottle from Druggists, &c., all over
the World.
Edwards’ Harlene Co.
High Holborn, London, Eng.
mu'
r-
JUS
§ S
1 Mamma, shall I hare beautiful long hair like you when I grow up I'
1 Certainty, my dear, if you use Edwards’' Harlene.'"
W.S.'W. Carria-S’e &: SaclcJlery Matif". Compa.rxy,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pav ns a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, \VHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 2-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, ±7 15s. Our Special Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest in Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and every descriptio nof vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order. HARNESS and Sa DDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE.—Do not be
misled by any firms who say they will deliver for less
than we con. They ca,nnot do so, and you pay 16 per
cent more for your requirement#.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
oun SPECIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
mn
D*Hrered at any Wharf dr -,
N.S.W. Railways, Station
£lO 10 /-
Various Verses.
The Furnace-Room.
( FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They seemed like demons of an underworld,
With hands and feet and certain human traces;
But lack of love was in their sunken eyes,
And lack of laughter on their flame-lit faces.
From gloom to glow, recess to furnace-door,
They came and went, the great ship onwan 1
swinging ;
We heard the fire-gale, but they did not hear
The men and women in the cabin singing.
O, there was love and laughter up above,
Kind eyes, red lips, and forms array with graces ;
But massed and matted fire and arid flames—
These and these only faced the flame-lit faces.
If one had said, “ They have a heart like thine ;
An eye for beauty and an ear for laughter ;
The stars are made for them, the sun for them ;
The obvious Here, the dimly-guessed Hereafter ”
What should another do but doubt the truth
Of words that ran so counter to his seeing,
That humanised the gorging giant’s slaves,
And made each toil-worn form a fellow-being ?
And yet the multitude who slave and sweat,
Who know no lighting hope, whom want debases,
Whose bodies urge the engines of the world,
Are kin or kindred to these flame-lit faces.
The cool white deck is not for them —the stars,
The sun, the moon, the music on the ocean.
The roaring engines claim their ears and eyes
Their souls and bodies give the World-ship motion.
It may be Doom forefronts her as she speeds,
Or Wrath, or Chaos, like a storm-wind chases;
It may be—in the meantime Death is good,
And takes the fire-sting from their flame-lit faces.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
A Message by the Moon.
You the traveller, you the Queen,
You who roam the worlds between !
Will you take a rover’s message
To the well-remembered scene ?
Far and far bej ond the Line
Will you halt, and for a sign
Lay your white hand on the window
Where the crimson roses twine ?
When she sees you light the skies,
She will come with yearning eyes
Looking south across the lime-trees
With the love that never dies.
Tears ! Or is it only dew
That the dear brown eyes look through ?
Pale ! Ah, no ; it is but only
Gray light gathered, Moon, from you !
When the night-wind scarcely stirs
In the silent silver-firs,
Whisper ! Tell the little mother
That ray heart is only hers.
Ah, if all the love I’d bring
Could be borne on your white wing
To the far-off Western window
Where the crimson roses cling !
N.S.W.
WILL H. OGILVLE
The Sound of Her Croon.
Prof. Oken, a German naturalist of 60 years ago, wrote
—“Light shines upon the water, and it is salted ; light
shines upon the salt sea, and it lives. . . . -Man also is
a child of the warm and shallow parts of the sea in the
neighborhood of the land.”
The Sea is a merry old Mother,
Who dandles her babes on her breast;
Anon to the sky she is heaving them high,
Then rocking them down in the West.
There’s one she will lift into haven,
And one she will toss to the moon,
And one shall come home to her under the foam
And sleep to the sound of her croon.
She telleth a wonderful story
Of caves that are crusted with pearl;
Of a marvellous bed she hath daintily spread
Under the turbulent whirl;
Of guests in a raiment so regal,
Great Heroes of Saga and Rune,
Who came at her call to be lapped in her pall
And sleep to the sound of her croon.
We know by the tug at our heart-strings,
That out of her bosom we came;
We hear in her cry when the tempest is nigh
How fiercely she calls on our name;
And shall we be deaf to her pleading
Who begs, as her ultimate boon,
To rock us to rest on her motherly breast,
And sing us to sleep with her croon ?
Our soul is a breath of her breathing ;
Our blood hath a taste of her brine ;
Our Joy and our Fear and our tremulous tear
Are born of her fountain divine ;
And ever we throb when she pulses
In storm thro’ her mighty bassoon,
And raiseth her hymn to the stars that are dim,
And biddeth us bide for her croon.
The Sea is a merry old Mother,
And We are her children at large ;
Some wander afar from the moan of her bar,
But many rock down by her marge.
There’s one she will lift into haven,
And one she will toss to the moon,
And one shall come home to her under the foam,
And sleep to the sound of her croon.
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Of the 58 deaths from lung-disease amongst
the N.S.W. insane, for the past year, half were
due to phthisis. A number of such cases it is
stated, originated within the asylums, which at |
present possess no arrangements for the segrega- ;
tion and special treatment of consumptives. « ’


THE
PLUM
m
Price—SINGLE RAZOR, 10s. 6d.; or with Ivory
Handle, 15s. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS.
Post free to any part of tlie colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRAIG & AITKEKT, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
The Australian yjidouis’ Fund [ife Assurance Society [td.
Established 1871.
MUIIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA
which issues Special Policies granting—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through illness to earn a livelihood.
IL A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Board op Directors :
Hon. Sir ARTHUR RENWIOK, M.D., M.L.0., Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,330,000 Annual Income exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospectus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretary.
nm
FEDERAL ntitt HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMER, AND
CENTRE OF CITY.
Every Modern Convenience
Electric Light in Every "oom
Sanitary Arrangements Perfect
Home Comforts
Suites for Families.
ROOMS ALIOBIZES, ALL PRICES.
For Cards of Tariff write to . .
11. Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
WOOLGROWERS! you
have created our reputa-
tion and name ; and for
30 YEARS we have never failed to honor your confidence. We ask you to honor us
hy supporting us, WHO, OF YOUR MAKING, are
The Largest All-Round Brokers in New South Wales.
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L
Financiers; Wool, Hides, Tallow, Skins, and General Produce Brokers.
TD
n
hftEFULLYATTHE BRANDI
.
B
BB
STieK T©
GAME
CIGARETTES
All Business is Founded on Confidence.
All Confidence is Founded on Experience.
AS
LOCAL EXPERIENCE
With
Pleasure
To the
following
Results I
IS THE BEST.
P&B
Dear Sirs,
Public Works Department.
Gove)nment Architect's Branch,
Sydney, sth June, 1900.
The recent removal oj the temporary Railway
Booking and Parcels Office in Martin Place has afforded an oppor-
tunity of careful examination of the two-ply “ Ruberoid " Roofing
supplied by you, and with which the roofs were covered in August,
1897. I have examined a portion of the “ Ruberoid" removed,
and, so far as I am able to judge, it does not show any sign oj
deterioration, and is practically as good as new.
I attach samples, as you might possibly wish to keep them.
Faithfully yours,
W. L. VERNON,
Government Architect.
Messrs. E. Rich & Co. Ltd.,
24 O' Connell-stxeet, Sydney.
E. RICH & COMPANY, LIMITED. SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
EXCLUSIVELY SQUATTERS’ BUPPLY MERCHANTS.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, far Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 21.—N0. 1069.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 11, 1900.
Price 6d»
HOW IT WOULD WORK OUT.
"It is understood that the Attorney-General has under consideration a proposal to limit the expenditure of candidates for election to the Federal Parliament. The purpose of the suggested
legislation is to at once bar corrupt practices and decrease the power of wealth in giving candidates an advantage over those having less money to spare for election purposes.”
Candidate for Goshen Flat: “I’m very sorry, gentlemen, but I have already shouted long beers all round, and if I set ’em up again I should get six months without
the option ; but there is nothing in the Act to prevent you shouting for me.” (A general stampede , and soon after the Goshen Flat brass band outside suddenly left off playing.)
VQTF rOR-niE
1 iPERAL MAM I
' (
Gosn i


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
44 Australia for the Anetraliana. ,, <
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.-
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tin? Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required —•
which you may pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald. /
Special Notice.
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Liters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient,
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 3h6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 33 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria,, S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 3s. 3d. added for postage.
No neivspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lid. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —l id. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition of The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
TTie^xxlleizai.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 11. 1900.
The Cost of a Federal Capital.
When the Federal Government has selected
a site for the Gommonwealth City—when it
has pegged out 5000 square miles of wilder-
ness, or as near an approach to wilderness as
can be found, in a suitable location on the
great N.S.W. table-land—when it has de-
cided to repurchase every inch of privately-
owned land in the area selected, and to be
for ever the sole ground-landlord of the
Federal territory—and when it has resolved
to lay out there the most beautiful capital on
earth—it will be promptly confronted by the
need for money. It will want money to buy
out the private landholders on the selected
area, money for surveys, for making roads
and streets, for building the Federal Houses
of Parliament, and Government offices, and
residence for the official figurehead of State,
and Supreme Courts, and for water-works
and railways. It will want money for
even the common police-office in which
to fine the Federated drunk, and the
lock-up in which to confine the Fede-
rated assault - and - battery man, and for
other purposes. The Federal territory will
begin very early to yield a revenue in
the shape of ground-rents (this is always
assuming that the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment has sufficient vigor and originality to
resolve that it will be sole ground landlord
in the Federal'territory), but, all the same,
there will be a large and ixamediate_fixpense
to be faced. It maxbe safelxassumedThat
the necessary sum can't Be raised in time by
taxation. The old nefarious device of float-
ing the'-usual brg loan *inr "England—the
dodge by which the Australian financial
opium-eater always drowns his conscience
and drugs his sense of responsibility —is
there, of course. But unless the Common-
wealth Government is going to follow the
lazy, cowardly, shiftless policy of the old
State Governments —the policy of dodge and
shirk, and of never facing trouble, and
always putting the responsibility off till
to-morrow —it will decisively reject this
solution of the difficulty. The object of
this article is to show how the Common-
wealth can raise the sum required for the
purchase of a Federal territory and the
establishment of a Federal city, without
borrowing any money at interest, or floating
any loan, either locally or in London or else-
where.
* • • •
The method proposed is not a new or wild
experiment. It is a method which has been
tried for many years in a respectable,
serious-minded, and rather conservative
English-speaking country, and found to act
admirably. In the banks of Australia and
Tasmania there is, as a rule, £20,000,000
or £21,000,000 of gold and silver coin lying
idle. Sometimes there is more ; hardly ever
less, and the amount is likely to increase
with the growth of population. This is the
amount which is not in use, not in circula-
tion, not earning any interest, not actively
helping any industry. It lies in the banks’
coffers to inspire confidence, and to assure
local depositors and local note-holders that
they can get their money if they want it,
and while they know it is there they don’t
want it. In Canada, a good many years ago,
it occurred to a more than usually intelligent
Government that this was a wasteful method
of doing business, and it was enacted that
the banks should keep 40 per cent, at least
of their cash reserves in Federal Govern-
ment notes. The Government handed over
the requisite amount in its own notes and
received gold in exchange, and the thing was
done. The amount received was practically
a perpetual loan without interest. It cost
the State nothing save the cost of printing
the notes. It cost the banks nothing at all.
The notes were as good for all local purposes
as gold, and there was still abundant gold left
for all foreign purposes. The notes festered in
the cellars of the banks quite as well as the
gold did. The banks have prospered under
this system fully as much as they did under
the one of holding purely coin reserves.
Nothing unusual has gone wrong, and noth-
ing has broken. The system has stood the
test of years, and has proved itself workable
and wholly successful.
* * • *
If this principle was adopted in Federated
Australia it would give the Government
command for an indefinite period, or for
ever, of about £13,000,000 without interest.
Instead of there being £20,000,000 of gold
and silver reserves in the banks, there
would be £33,000,000 of reserves, being
£20,000,000 in coin aiid £13,000,000 (or
about 40 per cent.) of Government paper-
money. And of this sum £13,000,000 would
stand to the credit of the Federal Govern-
ment’s account, and be available for the pur-
chase of the site for, and the construction
of, the Federal capital. And if, in addition,
the Commonwealth made itself the sole source
for the issue of paper-money, and abolished
the private issues of the banks, as has been
done in Queensland, or after the fashion of the
Govt, paper-money issue in British India,
it would get command of fc)3,000,000 or
£4,000,000 more by displacing, to that ex-
tent, the bank-notes now in circulation. It
is possible by these means for the Federal
Government to get command of something
like £15,000,000 without borrowing, without
paying interest, without taxation, or fraud,
or highway robbery, or any other immoral
expedient, and after establishing a solid gold
reserve against the notes in actual circula-
tion. And all this can be done by processes
which have already had a long trial in old,
respectable, conservative, serious - minded
British communities. All the beauty and
loveliness of Precedent is behind this idea.
It isn’t the dream of a Domain orator or a
Yarra-banker, but plain, ordinary business.
The new paper would be received in payment
of taxes, and all Government and private
obligations. There would be no excess of
paper in circulation—the amount in actual
circulation would not necessarily be any
more than at present; the chief difference
would be that the notes in circulation would
be absolutely reliable Government currency
instead of more-or-less unreliable private
banking currency, and that a large quantity
of paper would lie idle in the banks’ cellars
where only coin lies idle now.
* * * *
The money which was spent on the estab-
lishment of the Federal capital would not
leave the country, so the process would in-
volve no drain on Australia’s gold supply.
It would be spent in buying from Australian
people those portions of the 5000 square
miles selected for the. Federal territory which
were private property. It would go in
paying Australian workmen to erect build-
ings, construct a water-supply, make roads
and streets, build railways, and do other
necessary undertakings. It would go into
temporary circulation a little at a time, and
promptly find its way back to the banks.
There would be no injury to the banks in
compelling them to hold a portion of their
cash reserves in State paper, for it would
not be their money,~but the money of their
depositors", the" Australian people, that would
be involved. And as regards these de-
positors—the Australian people—they would
gain rather than lose. They would gain a
new asset—the Federal territory and capital
—and they would escape extra taxation to
pay for it, or extra taxation to meet the
interest on the money borrowed to pay for
it. The one thing the banks would
lose would be the profits on their note
circulations, and if the Federal Legislature
considered it advisable they could be com-
pensated (in strict moderation) for that loss,
though The Bulletin can’t remember that
Queensland offered any compensation when
it deprived all its banks of their note-issuing
rights. Nor did N.S. W. offer any compen-
sation when Dibbs’s temporary Act for the
regulation of note-issues excluded the Bank
of North Queensland, and cut off its flow of
paper money. The old banks, in fact, would
make no real loss, but rather a profit. If
the Bank of N.S.W., for instance, called in
its notes, it would probably find that in the
course of many years fully £200,000 of them
had disappeared by fire, water, miscellaneous
accident, and wear and tear, and it could
write this sum off its liabilities and add it
cheerfully to the reserve fund. This profit,
of course, exists in any case, but by abolish-
ing the bank’s note-issue it would be
realised and reduced to a concrete form. On
the whole, the necessity for compensating
the banks is a matter that is open to much
doubt. If it was done, it would be rather
to buy off their hostility than for any other
purpose.
* * * *
The new issue need not be, in any sense,
a forced currency. The Government could
hold a gold reserve against the notes (about
£3,000,000 or £4,000,000) in actual cir-
culation ; probably a reserve of £1,000,000
or £2,000,000 would be sufficient. The
Government notes in. actual circulation
would be as convertible as, and much
more secure than, the present private
issues are. The Government paper-money
which lay in the banks’ coffers in partial sub-
stitution for coin would make no difference
to the general public. Where the difference
to the general public would come in would
be here :
* * * *
The acquisition of the Federal territory
(provided a reasonably lonesome area of
5000 square miles was selected—say such an
area as could be found on the great table-
land down towards Bombala), and the laying
out of a splendid city, and the making of the
necessary roads, streets, and railways within
the territory, and the erection of the build-
ings required for Government purposes,
and even the city water-supply (if a
reasonably well-watered region was selected)
would cost absolutely nothing. The
revenues derived from ground-rentals in
the first few years would make good
any possible deficiencies, if the lump
sum of £15,000,090 or so made available by
the new banking system did not cover all
expenses. Thereafter the ground-rentals of
the Federal territory and the Federal city
would be all profit. They would be so much
clear revenue with no outgoings or encum-
brances to set against them. And if the
Federal Government was wiser than the
State Governments have been it would set
this splendid and ever-growing revenue
aside, either in reduction of the public
debts, or as an annual contribution to a Public
Works Fund, in order to reduce the tempta-
tion towards the creation of new debts in
the future.
* ♦ * *
The chief difficulty which The Bulletin
sees ahead is that man, as a rule, doesn’t
struggle out of his old rut except by com-
pulsion. Hitherto, despite an occasional
check, the Australias have managed, on the
whole, to borrow as much as they desired.
Borrowing is easy ; it is simple ; it is within
the comprehension of the meanest intellect ;
it is a panacea for so many ills ; and it saves
so many tired people the trouble of thinking.
And it is generally assumed that because
about 35 years of hard borrowing have not
brought this country to complete bankruptcy,
therefore 70 years, or 140 years, or 280 years
of it will still find Australia afloat and paying
its way. Which is the same logic which
assumes that because a man is still alive and
well and in his prime at the age of 35 he
will be equally well at the age of 350.
And so the average Australian is of opinion
that the good old loan is good enough to
meet all emergencies, and that there is
plenty of time to think over ways of being
self-dependent. He is the financial grass-
hopper in the summer, and his winter hasn’t
quite arrived yet, though the brown tints of
autumn are already on the leaves, and the
glory is visibly fading.
White or Spotted.
Whether any of the moral fibre of the united
cabinets of Australia has survived the recent
attack of devotion to the Throne and person
of Joseph Chamberlain will be pretty clearly
shown in a few more weeks. Most of the
official shriekers for participation in the
S’African war have been in the habit, on State
occasions, of representing themselves as moved
by nothing but sense of their responsibility
to the Empire, and as realising the necessity
of assisting it in its glorious mission by helping it
to stoush Kruger in a thoroughly calm and dis-
passionate way, with no reference to anything
but the higher interests of Progress and Human-
ity. Now that the war has died down to a miser-
able flicker, and the resistance of the Dutch hand-
. ful is beginning to peter out, the reality of these
ideas can be tested. If it is really for the Empire
that Australia fought it ought to see to it, so far
as it can see to anything, that South Africa is in
future run in such a way that the Empire profits
by it: ‘ And if -it doesn’t do that, and if it
doesn’t keep its eye on the Humanity and
Progress specified, it will lay itself—and its
statesmen will lay themselves—open to a
very marked degree of suspicion that they were
not really fighting for the Empire at all, but for
the dirty little Beit-Rhodes gang, whose big
brother, Chamberlain, has in his gift the baubles
with which the cakes of Australian public life
are sugared. If there is still possible any
pretence of decent independence here, we shall
kick with all the force of our muscles against the
calm assumption that we have been fighting to
help those modest patriots to bring in the cheap
nigger.
The interests of the Empire in South Africa are
clear. What England wants is breeding-ground,
where recruits for the peaceful holding of her
straggling and under-populated possessions may
be raised. She wants South Africa densely
populated with white men, whose mere existence
is a guarantee of continued ownership of the
spot. She wants it to be self - governing,
and she wants it to be self-supporting so far
as revenue goes ; and, above all things, she wants
the problem of its future management to be uncom-
plicated by the introduction of more colored people
than are already there. England can only keep up
a sufficient permanent garrison in South Africa at
a higher cost than she is prepared to pay, and the
figure to which the Empire must look to hold her
new conquests in peaceful permanence is the
white settler with a large family and a long rifle.
The only way to beat the Dutchman there is to
out-breed him ; the only way to beat the colored
man is to keep him at a distance. What England
wants is settlement, and a white population that
brings up babies and pays money for the importa-
tion of cradles, and keeps a solid Customs
revenue going in doing so. Beit-Rhodes and co.
want nothing of the kind. They want to
run the Rand mines with more colored labor
than they could get under Kruger’s rule,
and they want laws like the 1.D.8. Acts intro-
duced there. They include Lord Grey, the
chairman of the Rand Gold Mining Co., who pro-
mised his shareholders two millions extra divs.
each year after the war and the resulting influx of
the cheap nigger ; and Robinson, who explained
through London Telegraph that it was the
“outrageous” wages paid white workers under
Boer rule that was keeping South Africa back.
They mean holding the country by policemen and
not by settlement, and, having got Australia to
help them to knock out the original settlers, they
are now getting it to help them supply the
police.
* * * *
The interests which Australian democracy has
in a white South Africa are various and obvious.
For one thing, there is the tremendous force of
bad example which a spotted South Africa will
always be to the Fatman of this continent. When
the whole forces of the Empire have been strained
to defend the Fatman (in South Africa), and Aus-
tralia has poured forth blood and beer in
a fierce resolution that the Fatman (in South
Africa) shall have his nigger, and has cursed the
retrograde Boer oligarchy which has hitherto pre-
vented, in a feeble, inconsequential fashion, the
Fatman from having quite so much nigger as he
wanted, it will be a very difficult thing for Aus-
tralia to speak its plain mind to its own Fatman
about his nigger with quite as much profane
directness as the situation calls for. If
the methods of Beit and Rhodes and co. are
so good for South Africa that Australia is prepared
to stand by the Mother-country to her last bunyip
in an effort to force their acceptance, whether
South Africa wants them or not, then it will be
only one more step, and a very short one, for Aus-
tralia to adopt them herself. Australia has fallen
pretty low of late. But there is another
depth, in the shape of the compound-system and
the 1.D.8. Acts beneath her yet, and The Bulle-
tin doesn’t want to see her fall into that.
* * * *
If the political telescopes of Australian states-
men show them anything but the back-view of
the clerk whose business it is to enter up the
Titles Book in Downing-st., they may observe
that their constituents are beginning to recover
from their burst of blood-intoxication. The boss
politicians are still ready for any prolongation of
the burst, from which baronetcies and P.C.-
ships may be evolved. But the People—the plain,
ordinary, unornamented People—that has no show
for any title, nor for anything else, out of the war,
except the privilege of helping to support the
widow, is beginning to sober up. The People
will probably see things—-a few at a time—as the
specks before its still slaughter-drunken eyes dance
less and less unsteadily, and will ask first for a
voice in the settlement of South African affairs,
and, secondly, that such voice shall be used with
fog-horn persistency for a White South Africa.
* * * *
The Australian “people” have just federated,
and mainly to preserve their own country from
the undesirable alien. They wanted to exclude
the Kanaka and the Coolie, partly because these
are always objectionable in a white community,
and partly because their presence is an economic
menace. Every black man more means one white
man less to create a market and to help in paying
taxes to defray the cost of the South African ex-
peditions and of bringing out the politician’s title.
Australia has a surplus laboring population, and is,
on present showing, likely to continue to have it
for a long time. Without a local surplus popula-
tion Australia could, perhaps, shut herself up
within her own ports and ignore the labor mar-
kets of the world. With a surplus population, she
can’t do anything of the kind, and she has a direct
material interest in seeing that the wage-rate in a
country within three weeks’ sail is kept at some
decent figure.
* * * *
The homing instinct of the foreign-going Corn-
stalk who hasn’t struck too soft a tiling is his
leading characteristic. He will go cheerfully to
Klondyke, to W.A., to the Argentine, but if he
doesn’t make a success of it, he will come back
from each place. He will come back from South
Africa shortly —some thousands of him —as soon
as the Bantu boy dislodges him from under-
ground. These thousands will swell the surplus
already with us, and the broad back of the
O’Sullivan will be bowed daily under the burden
of his woe in finding billets on back-block bridges
for a tenth of them.
* * * *
Johannesburg stands on a table-land— the table-
land—whose foot-hills Buller found so interesting.
It is about 6000 ft. above sea-level, and has a
climate which can be guaged by those who have
visited New England and the Darling Downs.
This is the table-land which Australia, by guarding
lines of communication and scouting and generally
“ holding the hat ” of the British army, has helped
to capture for the Rand Gold-Mining Co. and its
associates. The idea of the Australian Jingo
Eress and politician seems to be that, having
elped those defrauded aristocrats into their
rights, Australia should respectfully retire from a
scene where all future operations are to be in the
hands of real gentlemen. They may be relied
upon to make all necessary arrangements for its
continued exploitation, and the 10,000 Kaffirs who
leave the sub-tropical jungles of Northern Delagoa
Bay territory every year for Kimberley may be
increased by another similar .little lot for the
Rand, without us so far forgetting our manners as
to disturb the equanimity of the crowd which is
running the show, or of its colleague in London
(who has titles to give away) by rude re-
marks. The Jingo press expects to get
its proprietor made a knight, and the Jingo
politician expects to get his missus made a
lady, and neither of them breathe with comfort
in an atmosphere charged with criticism of their
betters. Else some of them might suggest that
the Kaffirs might remain in Delagoa Bay, and


other parts of South Africa least suited for white
men. They might do this in the interests of their
own country—and if that is unlikely, on account of
their own country having little or nothing to offer,
then, they might do it in the interests of the Em-
pire. Things must change—they always dp—
and a stray K.C.M.G.-ship might eventually
fall into the hands of a man big enough and bold
enough to talk out straight on this subject now.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Great Westralian Victory.
The Federal Referendum in Westralia was a
freater triumph than even the most ardent
'ederalist had ventured to hope. The majority
for Union was over two to one ; the latest returns
show about 45,000 votes for Federation and about
20,000 against. It was an enormously large vote,
even allowing that women were permitted to exer-
cise thesuffrage—larger in proportion to population
than that recorded in N.S.W., Victoria, Tasmania,
Queensland, or South Australia. Even after
deducting one-half the votes on the assumption
that they were those of women, in order to put
the figures on the same basis as in the exclusively
male-vote provinces, it leaves the other States very
badly. Assuming that the interest taken in the
Federal question can be measured by the propor-
tion of the people who hustled to the poll to record
their votes either for or against, Westralia was
more deeply interested in the question of Union
or Disunion than any of its neighbors; then
N.S.W. and Victoria made practically a dead-
liest for second place ; Queensland came third ;
South Australia fourth, and Tasmania brought up
the rear, and was the calmest and most indifferent
member of the brotherhood of States. The Wes :
tralian Federal majority was larger, in proportion
to the size of the vote, than in either Queensland
orN.S.W., and didn’t compare very badly with
that of South Australia. Not only did the Gold-
fields go solidly for the cause of Australian nation-
hood, but the capital and Fremantle gave huge
Federal majorities, and an unexpectedly large
proportion of the agricultural and pastoral dis-
tricts and the lonesome places where the big trees
are did likewise. With a much more than two to
one majority in favor of the acceptance of the Bill
as it stands, even the Westralian Upper House
can hardly dare to cumber the road with its futile
carcase any longer. It was one thing to oppose
when the House of Obstruction could entrench itself
behind the good old lie that the bulk of the com-
munity was anti-Federal, and when the Federalists
couldn’t refute the lie because they had no oppor-
tunity of accurately sizing-up their own forces.
It is quite a different thing now when the two
armies have been counted, and the Nationalists
know the force that is behind them —when they
know that they outnumber the thin Parochialist
squadrons more than twice over, and command
not only the Goldfields but the capital and the
principal seaports. A majority like that is apt to
grow confident and to refuse to be fooled with.
The Parochial crowd signed its own death-warrant
when it agreed to take a census of the respective
forces. While it lay low, and merely bragged in
general terms of its numbers, it looked formidable.
When it puts its cause to the test it broke up like
the Chinese bogey when Japan trod so rudely on
the decrepit dragon’s tail.
♦
N.S.W.’s Five Million Deficit.
The N.S.W. committee of three financial experts
(two of them nominated on the suggestion of ex-
Premier Reid), which sat to consider the hideously-
tangled situation of the Cornstalk finances, has
emerged from a sea of figures with a few good
suggestions. It finds, to begin with, that the
total N.S.W. deficit is over £4,400,000, without
reckoning the great shortage in the Police Super-
annuation Fund, which will probably makeitsome-
where approaching £5,000,000. This £5,000,000,
therefore, includes the revenue deficit, the short-
age on the Martin Place and Centennial Park sus-
pense accounts, the sinking-fund payments which
Reid dodged, the interest payments which he
didn’t charge himself with, the Superannuation
and Police-fund shortages, and all sundries. It is.
the amount which must be reckoned with, if
N.S.W. faces the situation and starts fairly. The
committee proposes that all the old fakes and
futile dodges and paper frauds be abandoned ;
that all the unpaid bills which Reid was
in the habit of leaving over till next year
to make this year’s accounts look better
be debited to the deficiency ; and that
hereafter every financial year be debited with
every penny of its fair and just liabilities. It pro-
poses that in future the sum of £400,000 a year be
set aside to reduce the deficit —the present allow-
ance of £150,000 a year would take over 33 years
to put things right. Also that in future no
balances be carried forward from year to year;
that the surplus, if there is one, should go, in
addition to the £400,000 above-mentioned, in re-
duction of the big shortage; and the deficiency, if
there is one, should be added to the shortage, so
that there shall only be one shortage—which is
quite enough. This is at least plain horse sense;
under the old system there was the old revenue
shortage, the new ditto, the alleged credit balance
under the Cash Basis fake, the two suspense fund
shortages, the two superannuation-fund shortages,
and the unpaid accounts, and this policy of having
seven separate shortages and an alleged surplus
was a hideous tangle. The committee states, as
The Bulletin has done thousands of times, that
money derived from the sale of land should not be
regarded as revenue ; it isn’t income but an eating-
up of the country’s capital. It states, as The
Bulletin has done thousands of times, that to
charge such non-revenue-producing items as rifles,
ammunition, fortifications, bridges, roads, &c., to
loans as “ permanent and reproductive works” is
pure swindle, and, seeing that N.S.W. has spent
nearly £11,000,000 of loan funds on such items as
these, it suggests the formation of a sinking fund
to pay off this portion of the debt. Also, it is
solid on the fact that there should be no future
borrowings except for works which will pay full
interest on their cost; that all other works should
be charged to revenue; and that Reid’s tem-
porary-loan device should be done away with. It
further advises that these new methods be fixed
by law, so that when some utterly unscrupulous
man of political fakes and shams, like Reid,
gets into power again, he can’t start to
manufacture sham surpluses by Reid’s methods,
and thus undo all the good that lias been
done—unless he first openly repeals the law.
And now the question arises :Is Prem • Lyne a
man of sufficient nerve to do this? Especially is
he a. man of sufficient nerve to pass a law enacting
that no works which don’t yield sufficient direct
revenue to cover interest shall be charged to loan
funds hereafter ? He has the greatest opportunity
which a strong politician ever had since N.S.W.
began—the biggest grievance in N.S.W. history
to tackle, and the biggest possible chance to blight
the political cheap-Jack who wants his billet by
tackling it in its entirety.
Tasmania’s Land-Tax Muddle.
They do some curious things in Tasmania. For
land-tax purposes you can arrive at what you want
in either of two ways, and get there just the same.
The capital value may be taken and, say, Id. in
the £ levied on that. Or you can take the capital
value, and assume that the annual rental value is,
say, 5 per cent, on that, and then charge Is. Bd. in
the £ on the rental value. The amount paid is
the same either way ; in the first case you drink
out of the bottle, while in the second you pour the
liquor out of the bottle into the glass, and then
out of the glass back into the bottle, and then
drink out of the bottle. Bat Tasmania has in-
vented a quaint Tasmanian variation. There the
capital value of the property is carefully assessed,
and the knowledge thus acquired is put in
the fire or thrown over the back fence.
Next the rental value is taken, not at any fixed
percentage on the capital value, but apparently
at the amount which the property is actually
producing, and the tax is levied thereon. Laun-
ceston Examiner, a serious-minded paper, swears
that it has found, in one district, a case where a
wooden shop worth £75 produced £l5 a year —
therefore it paid tax on £l5 a year. Also, land
worth £4794 produced £BO a year because the
owner was too weary to do anything save graze a
cow or two on it —therefore it paid rate 3 on £3O a
year. So the small man paid 13d. in the £ where
the large man paid Id. People don’t hurry to
make good use of their land in Tasmania, for the
less use you make of your land the less you pay,
and if you make no use of it at all you probably
pay less still. The island’s little wooden Govern-
ment has so far wakened up to the foolishness of
this that it is trying to enact that the annual ren-
tal value (on which taxes are levied) shall be
assumed to be not less than 3 per cent, of the
capital value, wherefore the m m who has £lOOO
worth of land lying idle must pay on not less than
£3O a year, and the man who has £lOOO worth of
land put to a good use may still be taxed on £2OO a
year. The simple idea of taxing every man on
the value of his land and on nothing else hasn’t
soaked into the Lewis Government’s intelligence
as yet.
♦
Another Distressed Private Railway.
If there is one—even one—privately-owned rail-
way in Australia or Tasmania which hasn’t proved
either a failure or a curse, the name of it isn’t
generally known, and information about it would
be thankfully received. The latest affair of the
kind to put its complaints into print is the Mid-
land Railway of Westralia. This awesome con-
cern was founded in 1890, to build a line 277 miles
long, at a cost of about £1,000,000. It was a cheap
and easy line to build, and the State helped with a
magnificent land-grant of 3,321,000 acres. When
a co. undertakes to build a railway costing a
million, the natural and honest thing to do is to
put up a million capital and build the railway. But
the private railway co.’s of this country are
beautifully unanimous in refusing to put their
own money in their own speculations. The Mid-
land Railway 00. put up £200,000 of its own cash,
and spent it mostly in London and elsewhere,
leaving the railway to take care of itself. Then it
borrowed £737,200 at 6 per cent., and promised
also to repay £ll5 for every £lOO borrowed. A
company which won’t manifest any confidence in
its own speculation can’t get money cheaply. The
load of interest killed it almost immediately.
It also borrowed £19,450 at 5 per cent. It went
broke and ceased to pay interest, and the Wes-
tralian Government helped it by advancing
£500,000 at 4 per cent., getting a mortgage over
2,400,000 acres of its own land as security. The
co. could get, probably, a little over 6s. an acre
for its land, in which case it might sell and be in
the beautiful position of having got its railway
wholly paid for by the State, but it refuses to sell
till there is a big rise in price. Therefore there is
very lit vie population along its line, and very
little business doing. The Midland Railway lias
only been opened about 4| years (it wouldn’t
have been opened at all if the State hadn’t found
half the money), and the co. now spends about
half its time in arranging with its hopeless mass
of creditors —the 6 per cent, loan has been
in existence for about ten years during six of
which the co. defaulted on the interest —and
the rest in complaining because the Government
didn’t give it more assistance, and in truculently
demanding that the State shall buy the railway.
Any spare time is devoted to blocking settlement
and hindering all progress by the flat refusal to
sell any land until prices go up. Even patient
Westralia begins to grow angry about its wonder-
ful Midland Railway. The bailiff, by the way,
has been in for some years—he is euphoni-
ously called a “receiver” ; and the man in posses-
sion reports that the net earnings are now at the
rate of £30,000 a year. If the State had built the
line that would just about pay interest on bor-
rowed money, but when a line is built mostly with
money borrowed at 6 per cent., £30,000 only
pacifies the creditors sufficiently to prevent them
selling the locomotives for old iron.
♦
The Good Deeds of the M'Shiels
Government.
Victoria’s new two-headed Government is really
making progress with the resumption of large
estates for closer settlement. The Closer Settle-
ment Act was passed in Turner’s time, and it was
originally meant to be an Act giving the State
powers of compulsory purchase, as in Maoriland.
But the Tory party, which owns the Council, body
and soul, was Shocked at the proposed outrage on
the Sacred Rights of Property, and the best
Turner could get was a measure authorising him
to re-buy large estates to a very moderate extent,
provided the State and the seller could agree on
the price. The seller, never having got rid of the
idea which soaked into his mind in the Gillies
railway-boom days, that the State would naturally
pay three times as much as the land was worth,
and assuming that the scheme was intended to be
a swindle, asked prices which the cautious Tur-
ner would not look at, and nothing was done.
The M‘Shiels Ministry, being either more ener-
getic or less particular about the price, has since
got actively to work, and has already purchased two
estates without, so far as is yet known, being ruin-
ously defrauded in the transaction. But in spite of
this temporary success a Compulsory Resumption
Act is as badly wanted as ever. M any of the
biggest estates, and those which block settlement
in the most awkward places, are held by. men who
refuse to put them under offer except at absurd
figures. To make a Closer Settlement law an
absolute success the State needs power to repur-
chase any big estate at any time. Wherever there
is an unusually strong demand for land—where-
ever there is a pastoral district that, by reason of
nearness to and easy railway communication with
a market, is specially suited for profitable agricul-
ture—wherever the State has built a railway
which is a dead loss for want of sufficient popula-
tion to use it, and where the necessary population
can’t arrive because the big landholder won’t sell
—these are the places where Closer Settlement is
most needed. And if the big landlord in these
places won’t sell, then the State should have
power, in the public interest, to hand him a suf-
ficient but not exorbitant cheque, and throw him
out in a reasonable and gentlemanly way. A
workable Closer Settlement scheme is what Vic-
toria needs more than anything else, and if the
M'Shiels Ministry intends to keep on at the
business, which it is to be hoped it does, it will
shortly have to make another effort to persuade
its House of 48 Rich Landlords to give it extended
authority.
♦
The Hixson Contingent.
The more the public learns of the N.S.W. naval
contingent to China, the more discreditable ap-
pears the conduct of the Lyne Govt, in sending
t.;e men away. The business seems to have
bean mainly engineered by Capt. Hixson, the
retired Marine Board President who acts
as a little local admiral in Sydney. In
private life Capt. Hixson is, apparently, a
very estimable old gentleman of seventy, or
t lereabouts. The more his public and official
actions are studied, the more remarkable they
appear. Capt. Hixson appears to be disqualified
by the infirmities of age from commanding on
active service any body of men whatsoever.
Nevertheless the daily papers report him as going
at least “as far as Hongkong” in charge of the
contingent. Has he passed the medical examina-
tion obligatory on other members of the force ?
If not, why is he sent ? And why are any of
the men sent ? They are not going as a naval
force, but as “a land force to protect property
and life.” If they need training, why do not
Capt. Hixson and the Lyne Govt, secure for
them one of the idle war-ships of the so-called
“Australian Squadron”—which Australia pays
for without owning, without controlling ? There
would be sense in that; where is the
sense of taking 200 naval - brigadesmen
and artillerymen from their avocations ( some
70 per dent, of them married , with families),
and sending them as a land force to China?
Where is the profit, except to the self-esteem of
Capt. Hixson and Co. ? These men are to receive
7s. fid. a day ; and officers in proportion. (Two
junior Hixsons go as officers; a third, it is
stated, failed to pass the medical exam.)
Why should the taxpayers be saddled with
the cost of such expensive maintenance,
and with the support of the wives and families of
such as die in China ? If they want experience,
let them get it under a British officer in Australia,
on an Australian warship—without risk to life,
without loss to the community. There are enough
men fighting in China without Australians being
sent. The few hundreds that we export will be
of little use there, but they are badly wanted
here. Australia is not at war with China. She
has no direct concern in the European quarrel.
Anyway, Europe is big enough to manage her
own Chinese quarrel. Where is the sense of
sending Australian breadwinners, some of the
flower of the community, to risk their health and
lives without reason ? The offer of 200 men to
England seems to have been made (through the
Government) entirely on Captain Hixson’s own
irresponsibility. The officers and men were not
formally consulted. And the Lyne Govt, had not
the brains and backbone to snub this irresponsible
officer. So the men go, 70 per cent of them
fathers of Australian families —the Hixson con-
tingent for the war !
<*►
A Sydney man who has grown old in the wool-
trade writes as follows
Past — December, 1899 : Continuously advancing prices,
the biggest wool boom on record ; Sydney sale-room a
public exhibition. Buyers loudly yelling out bids, almost
mad to get wool. Ordinary merino fleece, greasy ltd. and
15d., equal to 15J —16. V per lb. c.i.f.e. Ordinary merino
fleece, scoured 26d. and 27d., equal to 271 —29 per lb.
c.i.f.e. Chief buyers, German, French, and local scourers.
All newspaper reports good ; prices likely to last; trade
brisk in Europe ; supplies small owing to drought; every-
thing rosy ahead, but squatters not satisfied with prices,
wanting Jd. to ;Ul. per lb. more. Much wool withdrawn
and shipped to London.
Present — July, 1900: Prices have been falling every
month for the last six months. Values down near the old
average level of the past seven years ; ruinous losses ;
depression ; bung ; gloom ; slump ; banks stopping the
issue of further credits to buy wool. Onlv one public
auction sale for four months in Sydney, and no more
until 22nd October; wool practically unsaleable; the
sale-room deserted. Quotations nominal. Ordinary
merino fleece, greasy, 6£d. to 8d , equal to 7Jd. —9d.
per lb. c.i.f.e. Ordinary merino fleece, scoured, 16d.
to 18d. equal to 17£d. —20d. per lb. c.i.f.e. News-
paper reports : Fall not justified ; supplies still small ;
recommend squatters to keep back wool to starve
Europe into giving higher prices. Sydney brokers
blaming London brokers, and vice versa ; squatters who
sold in the province happy.
Future — to January, 1901: European and Australian
critics say that the boom prices were never justified, that
wool could have been bought Id. to 2d. per lb. cheaper in
Sydney if the foreigners had tried in a reasonable way to
work together ; that it would have been better for all
sections of trade if no such boom had ever occurred, and
that it is to be hoped it will not do so again. The late
inflation was the result of mad speculation, whilst the
present seemingly low prices are quite high enough for
practical purposes, being higher than the average of the
past seven years, and, therefore, represent a workable
basis which cannot be exceeded by manufacturers with-
out another risk of sudden collapse. If squatters will
support their own Australian markets next season as they
ought to do, and sell at equivalent to London values,
buyers will flock here from all parts of the world ; but if
more inone3' is wanted here than in London then the
trade will be driven away from here altogether.
♦
The dismissal of Grattan Grey, chief of Maori-
land Hansard staff, for writing anti-war articles,
looks meaner and meaner the more information
comes along. The former Hansard chief got
£OOO a year. When he retired, Grey was offered
the position at £4OO, and, by way of compensation
for the £2OO reduction, was given the privilege of
doing private journalistic work when Parliament
was not sitting. The assurance that he was at
liberty to do outside work was contained in a
letter of appointment, bearing Premier Seddon’s
own signature. Last year, a Parliamentary com-
mittee resolved that members of Hansard staff
should not write political articles for the Press,
but Grey assumed this prohibition did not refer
to him, because he had the Premier’s special
permission to do any kind of outside jour-
nalistic work, and because this permission was
regarded in his case as compensation for the
£2OO docked off the Hansard chief’s salary.
The committee said nothing about making good
the £2OO, which confirmed Grey in his opinion.
So he went on doing outside work when Parlia-
ment wasn’t sitting, and no one objected (which
further confirmed Grey in his opinion), till he
wrote certain articles against the war. Then he
was sacked, on the motion of Premier Seddon
himself, for doing what Seddon himself (by a
letter which Seddon never withdrew in any way)
had expressly authorised as one of the conditions
of Grey’s engagement!
The Victorian Premier says he is going to draw
up a scheme of the alterations required in the
province’s State Constitution when the Common-
wealth starts, and go to the country on it at the
coming general election. Compared with the
S. A. Govt.’s plan of electing a Convention to
draft a complete new S tate Constitution suitable
to the altered circumstances, this is a weakly
apologetic dodge. If the people send M‘Lean
back with a majority, either because they ap-
prove of his land-resumption and railway policy,
or for other reasons, he will say that that proves
the people accept his proposed new Constitutional
ideas. The Council will aver, quite truly, that so
many questions being mixed up at a General Elec-
tion it is impossible to say that the people approved
this particular item. The Assembly will say:
“ We come back from the General Election with a
popular mandate to carry this measure.” The
Council will reply: “ We are also an elective
body, and we haven’t got any such mandate.”
Then will be a deadlock. The election by the
people of a Convention to deal with this question
alone, and their acceptance by a referendum of
the Convention’s scheme, would be a quite un-
mistakable mandate. Anything else is mere
uncertainty and confusion.
On the sending of troops to China, T. M. Slat-
tery said in N.S.W. Leg. Council: —
It might be for a very good purpose, well known to the
Govt., that it was proposed to send men to China.
Practically that was why he voted with the Govt.
Here we have an extension of the D alley Soudan
doctrine. Dalley declined to argue the right or
wrong of the Soudan campaign, contenting him-
self with saying that it was the duty of N,S. W.
Parliament to follow the lead of the British Govt.
Slattery’s step goes farther on the same
road. He would have Parliament follow the local
Govt., “as it may have a very good purpose in
view.” But if such a view of responsible parlia-
mentary duty be tolerable in respect to English
wars it should be equally tolerable for all other
constitutional matter, and thus we would have the
British Govt, moving, N.S.W. Govt, following on
the assumption the British Govt, was right, aud
Parliament again following on the assumption its
own Govt, was right—a reduction to the absurd.
Premier Seddon has called down the cold, hard
curse of the Prohibitionists in Maoriland, and
given them a new war-cry just at a time when
they were at a loss to know where to turn for one.
Some years ago it was decided that no licenses for
the sale of liquor should be granted in thahportion
of the North Island known - as the “King
Country.’' Naturally sly grog-shops were to be
found everywhere, and the Maoris and Europeans
both suffered from, and got drunk on, bad waipero.
It was a drunken land, but the name of Prohibition
was there. Now Seddon says the country is
becoming settled, white people live all over it,
and the state of things obtaining 14 years ago does
not hold good to-day; wherefore lie is going to
amend the Licensing Act, and allow periodic
option votes, at which natives and pakehcis, men
and women alike, shall have a voice in saying
whether or not the public selling of decent grog
shall be allowed as against the secret vending of
poison. The Prohibitionists do not want their
little fad of Local Option every three years spoilt
by Seddon’s National Option vote, holding good
for nine years, and they have sent out the fiery
cross through the length and breadth of the land,
with Maori Prohibition as a text. The fact that
Maori Prohibition didn’t prohibit worth a small
kitten matters nothing. The fine big word was
there.
An Oriental named Solomon Khan raised the
first dust of a big question the other day. Solo-
mon, a second-class passenger on a railway-line in
Isis district (Q.), was requested by an official to
transfer himself and belongings into a carriage re-
served for kanakas, etc. On his refusal he was
ejected. Whereupon Solomon brought action
against the Commissioner for Railways for £2OO
damages, and was awarded £lO. It seems hard
that Solomon the Oriental should be driven to
herd with South Sea Islanders, but if S. Khan,
Esq., can fight his action at law successfully pro-
bably other Q. aliens will soon try the same ex-
periment. If Q. Railway Department set about
providing separate carriages for all the varied
nationalities in Mongrelia who are not European,
it will soon have a big order. Furthermore, dis-
tinctions of this kind can hardly be made (with
consistency) against Hindoo merchants, British
subjects like ourselves, just at a time when we are
asseverating that the Empire is all one kin, and
that we’re all prepared to die for one another,
although we’d rather not.travel in the same rail-
way carriage. It is alleged that Solomon pro-
tested vigorously against being expected to travel
“with kanakas.” The humors of Bananaland !
The white man despises the Hindoo, Afghan, and
Syrian ; the Hindoo turns up his nose at the
kanaka ; the kanaka despises the aboriginal, and
the aboriginal looks down on the Chinaman. And
the Chinaman, in his secret heart, has a hearty
contempt for the whole lot of them. It’s a funny
world !
Two bills for curtailing the liberty of the youthful
subject have been put before the Vic. Assembly
by reformer O’Neill, member for Mandurang.
One bill aims at the suppression of boy and girl
gatherings and prowlings in public thoroughfares
after 9 o’clock p.m. Any person under the age of
14 (other than newspaper seller or respectable
business messenger) who shall be found abroad,
“ unless in charge of a parent or guardian,” shall
be captured by the police. Penalty, 10s. maxi-
mum for the first offence, and so on. This bill
looks weak in so far that the Vic. police-force is
not numerous enough to arrest all the alfresco
gatherings of youngsters who disperse in fifteen
different directions when the “copper” comes
along, but it would certainly give more
weight to the “copper’s” frown when he cries
“Take yourselves off home.” In fact, this
bill merely proposes to legalise and add
wholesome terrors to the moral suasion
which has always been exercised with more
or less success by the man in blue. And
in justice to that guardian of the law it ought to
be passed. Nothing is more irritating to a police-
man after 9 p.m. than the thought that an
impish small boy is probably spying on his
actions with regard to his best Eliza. The
other bill introduced by O’Neill of Man-
durang raises a difficult question. It pro-
poses to make the use of tobacco in any form by
an under-16 boy, or the selling of tobacco to an
under-16 boy, a, punishable offence. Also it casts
a reflection on its own policy by granting special
concession to the youth who can produce a
“smoking licence” signed by a medical practi-
tioner. O’Neill admits the possibility of tobacco
being beneficial to some boys. There is no reason
to suppose that it is, and the idea looks like fool-
ishness. Anyhow, the sale of smoking-licences to
all and sundry boys is likely to be a handy
addition to the doctor’s income. And the sale of
bogus or forged licences at a cheap rate will pro-
bably supply many a deserving dead-beat with
beer.
The Maoriland Premier says that he is prepared
to introduce a Bill either reducing the duties on
British goods or raising those on foreign goods, so
as to give Britain a big advantage in the Maori-
land market. First of all, it might be a wise
thing to see if Britain will reciprocate. Britain


The Equitable Life Assurance Society
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Financial Position as at January 1, 1900.
ASSETS ... ... ... ... ... ... £58,373,185
Increase in Assets during 1899 ... ... ... ... 4,546,248
SURPLUS amounts to ... ... ... ... ... 12,711,975
Increase in Surplus during 1899 ... ... ... ... 793,123
ASSURANCE IN FORCE ... # ... ... ... 219,670,088
Increase in amount of Assurance in force during 1899 ... ... 14,012,322
SURPLUS over LIABILITIES on every standard of valuation LARGER than that of
any other Life Office in the World.
LOCAL DIRECTORS (with power to issue Policies and Pay Claims):
WILLIAM McMILLAN, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman); Hon. HENRY MuRT, M.L.C.:
Hon. CHAS. K. MACKELLAR, M. 8., M.L.C.; F. NORTON MANNING, Esq., M. D.
General Manager for Australasia, C. CARLISLE TAYLOR.
S. W. D’ARGY IRVINE, F.S.S., Manager for N.S.W. and Queensland.
Total Debt
Amount
spentou Non-
productive
Works.
Proportion
thus
Misapplied.
Victoria ..
£4 7,021,930
£.'1,660,707
04 per cant.
Js'ew South Wales
62,154.540
10,915.047
174
South Australia..
24,20:1,724
fi.Sity.l'bS
24 „
WestTfilia..
9.512,511
Id,308,118
2«i „
Queensland
ai.Jsiio.ia7
9,905.934
31 "
Tasmania ..
7,793,534
3,930,750
60 J „
lets most goods in free because it thinks that Free*
trade pays her best, and Australasian goods have to
scramble for a place on exactly the same terms as
those of other countries. Maoriland taxes most
goods for exactly the same selfish reason—because
it thinks that Protection pays her best, and British
goods come in on the same terms as those of other
countries. If these provinces tax foreign goods,
sav, 10 per cent, higher than those of Britain to
give Britain an advantage in our markets, will
Britain tax foreign goods 10 or even 5 per cent,
more than ours to give us an advantage in her
markets ? If the scheme is carried out, Seddon
may get a baronetcy as bis reward, but the com-
munity can’t be all made a baronet, and where
does it come in ?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Rose of Persia.”
Royal “ Absent-Minded Beggar."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Criterion “The Green Lanes of England."
Palace British Biograph Co.
Centenary Hall Donald Macdonald's Lectures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Man of Forty."
Her Majesty’s “Tess.”
Theatre Royal “The Orphan Heiress."
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
Town Hall Seherek’s Orchestra (Saturday
afternoon).
That sturdy and heavy-footed old stand-
by,the “ Green Lanes of England,” is just now
filling in time and space at Sydney Criterion.
The “ G. L.” is a play of which, by reason of its
age and its obvious good intentions, it is difficult
to speak unkindly. The fact that Holloway’s
farm is right in the middle of a good-sized village,
and that George, the vagabond and begging-letter
writer, goes about dressed in bright red
to avoid the notice of the police, are things
that might happen to anybody. Even the unac-
countable conduct of the hero who seduces
Margaret and leaves her wrongs unredressed for
five years, and yet is full of the noblest intentions,
and who had abandoned his previous wife and loft
her to be cherished with a crowbar by Clement
Flint, the blackmailer, are mere casual specks
on the greenness of the lanes of England.
The old Pettitt drama belongs to that un-
sophisticated order of play wherein the bad
man, when he contemplates murdering a
woman, first goes round and tells bis unreliable
friends, George and Bill, of his intentions, though
he well knows they will immediately demand
threepence as the price of their silence. It deals
mostly with the crude and primitive sins of drink
and greed and illegitimacy. Its villains are the
usual three—the Bill Sikes villain with the dog-
skin cap who lifts the heavy end of the log of
wickedness, and the elegant-looking one who tells
Bill on whom to drop the log after it is lifted, and
the fallen gentleman who lias to have three beers
every five minutes to prevent him thinking of his
mother or his uncle or some other noble relative.
Their schemes are weak and transparent, and
Clement and Bill labor excessively at all manner
of wrong for days and make Is. out of it after
being twice horse-whipped, and then George
snatches the shilling and spends it in beer to
drown the “haunting memories of his married
brother or his sister’s second husband. Their one
great device is to stick up Frank, who is a perfect
stranger to them, and tell him that his first wife
Martha isn’t dead after all, so that he can’t marry
Margaret as he intends, but that if he will
marry another woman—a woman that he hadn’t
the faintest desire to marry—they will keep
quiet for a consideration. And he at once
promises in the most probable manner
to think the matter over. Mr. Dampier, as
George, the begging-letter writer in the astonishing
red clothes, recites the “ Charge of the Light
Brigade ” on general principles, and otherwise is
chiefly notable for a thirst and a deep sense of the
degradation his conduct has brought on his second
cousin. s Miss Lily Dampier lends a certain
amount of vigour to the part of the girl with the
unauthorised infant. Apart from Mr. Dampier,
however, the brightest spots in a very weak cast
are J. Benson North, whose blackmailer is a
really respectable piece of work so far as the limits
of the play allow, and Miss Blanche Clements, the
lady who is not so much married to him as she
might be, and whom lie treats with the crowbar
externally, she being weak and in need of iron to
build up her constitution. Farmer Holloway does
no visible farming in an incredible pair of top
boots, and Miss Rose Dampier plays her kindly
little part as she plays every part —with a mild,
pensive smile, and an even voice, and an utter
absence of any sign of excitement. The “Green
Lanes ” will be mitigated by “Hamlet” on Friday.
« * * *
A more extended trial of the “ Rose of
Persia ” only confirms The Bulletin in its opinion
that this is one of the few plays which can look its
own preliminary advertisement in the face and
not be ashamed. The music is excellent all
through, and yet it seems to be mostly of a class
that doesn’t appeal to the barrel-organ man, or
the suburban fiend with a cheap piano, or the
person who goes out on the water on moonlight
nights with a girl and a cat-chorus and some
colonial beer in a bottle. These undesirable char-
acters have mostly forborne so far to butcher it on
the highways and make the public tired with the
constant shriek of its remains as they fly out of
open windows. And Basil Hood, even after a
second and third inspection, leaves the impression
that he is more like Gilbert than any other recent
librettist save Gilbert himself. Even the fact that
the lady who represents Queen Rose-in-Bloom fails
numerously, and is inferior to several other ladies
who only hover on the outskirts of the story,
doesn’t appear to do any serious damage. The
play is robust enough to bear up under worse
drawbacks, though if Sultan Brownlow’s wife
were better equal to the high station to which
Mahomet has called her the results would be still
more satisfactory. Lauri gets a well-deserved rest
from laboring to be funny in operas that are dis-
mal by nature and depressed by education.
Having a really funny part, lie simply lets himself
go in a brightly-spontaneous way. Also, the
sight of Kenningham and Brownlow has caused
many girls who formerly intended to marry
returned warriors from S’Africa to reconsider
their decision, and they are now open to receive
offers from wealthy Persians who wear clothes
like Kenningham’s and Brownlow’s. Even a pro-
posal from an affluent dervish would be seriously
considered.
** * *
The Biograph at Sydney Palace unfolds its
thrilling picture of the train tearing through the
Derbyshire hills, and its unthrilling picture of
Queen Victoria nodding to her subjects, to audi-
ences that are much smaller than the train
deserves, though twice as large as the nodding of
Queen Victoria appears to justly call for. A series
of views representing Pope Leo’s life in the Vatican
have just been added to the collection. Tiie
other Biograph, across the street, has silently
folded up its film and left, and the athletic cock-
roach is training in the Lyceum these nights, in
default of other tenants.
* * Hi *
The Pre-occupied Deadbeat, or the Vacant
Cadger, or whatever it is best to call him in order
to avoid using an expression that has become a
weariness to the soul, tells his jumbled war-tale at
Sydney Royal with a persistence worthy of a
better cause. Up to time of writing, Bland Holt
had successfully concealed any intentions he might
have of changing the bill, and the red scenery and
the crude brown Boer appear liable to hit the pub-
lic in the eye for a considerable time longer.
** » *
Donald Macdonald has continued his few
pleasant remarks about the war, partly at the
Centenary Hall and partly around the Sydney
suburbs. In view of the fact that Donald lias
been a decided boom he will not tear himself away
from Sydney until lie has given two more lectures,
on this (Thursday) evening and Saturday. Even
then it seems just possible, in view of the state of
business, that the great difficulties which stand in
the way of a further extension of the season may
be somehow overcome. Manager Geacli looks like
a man who could overcome a python or a row of
Alps in single combat for an adequate cash
consideration.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli continues to brighten slowly
like the rising dawn, though the humor is still of
the coon variety that is made in America. Madame
Cornelia goes patiently through a sort of vocal
tabulation of every institution in the Land of the
Free. She has sized up the magnolia blossoms,
and is now at the Green Fields of Virginia. Olaf
Schrader, the tramp bicyclist, does a little
curvetting with a buck - jumping bicycle.
McClain and Walker are advertised as the
two real Coons, and if there must be Coons,
the writer would prefer the other sort. The
Coon Ballet grows on acquaintanceship ; the
reverse may be said of Billee Barlow. Billee
quite overdoes the Gussie and Charlie gag, and
her trick of addressing individuals in the audience
gets on the soul after about the third repetition.
“The Lady’s Maid,” wherein Billie keeps strictly
to the invisible mash in her song, is distinctly her
most artistic item. The Anirnatographe com-
ments casually on the Transvaal War in pictures
with tents and rifles and alleged African veldts in
them. But Sydney has seen very much flickering
veldt on canvas of late, and the fact that a veldt
is only a bit of ordinary soil at a distance is
growing on the public.
** * m
At Melbourne Princess’s the triumph of
that sweet little comedy, “Tyranny of Tears,”
has been more artistic than financial, and so the
bill is to be changed again on Saturday. Every-
body able to appreciate a good performance of
such a play speaks with enthusiasm of “ T. of T.”
after seeing it, but a considerable number of
Brough’s old constituents are missing the chance
in this case. Which reminds The Bulletin that
manager Brough has never yet tried the ex-
periment of making things quick and lively
at his theatre. The waits between the acts
—four acts as a rule to the modern bril-
liant comedy—seem much too long and heavy
for the show. Why not try new tactics and make
a feature of them in the advt. —performance to
commence at 8.15 and end as soon as possible?
“The Tyranny of Tears” could surely be put
through in 140 minutes without any sacrifice of
strength in the performance. On Saturday the
final fortnight of the Brough Co. in Melbourne
will start with “The Man of Forty,” its first Aus-
tralian production. According to all accounts,
“ The Man of Forty ” is the most powerful comedy
staged in London this year.
** * *
The “Fedora” show at Her Majesty’s
will also close on Friday. Nance O’Neil had her
lines by heart after the first night, but otherwise
the work of the fine, bouncing lady did not
seem to improve materially with practice. All
the same, there is no reason why the incidental
caricature part of Boleslas, the fiddler, should be
clowned. Melbourne has seen some good represen-
tations of Sardou’s tragedy at sundry times, and this
putting of a preposterous Boleslas in the fore-
ground is not calculated to enlarge the city's faith
in the intellectual aspirations of Nance’s show.
On Saturday they produce “Teas” at Her Ma-
jesty’s, and the plot of the drama is sketched in
the preliminary advt. A wise policy, which Aus-
tralian managers can be recommended to copy.
If a successful novel excites interest in a stage
adaptation, then a readable synopsis of a new play
must tend to make a market for it.
“ The Orphan Heiress ” aforesaid may be
the positively insanest spectacle on Melbourne re-
cord, but the exact measure of a melodrama’s
foolishness is a difficult question to decide. More-
over, the question doesn’t matter. A liberally
mounted horror with horses, cabs, and barouches
in it, is just as good or as had as it appears to the
eye of the person who asks for nothing more than
a show. The Bulletin prefers a straight-out
pantomime or variety entertainment to a story of
“The Orphan Heiress” type, although there is
force in the argument that a melodrama spares
one the infliction of encores, and rarely leaves the
stage in possession of a dull performer for more
than two minutes at a time. The company at the
Royal deal fairly with their awful responsibilities,
and the bogus tiger is a fine, unconventional joke.
»* * *
At the Bijou, there is nob much standing-
room on Saturday nights, and the recent addition
of Ferry, the Frog, looks rather like a v,... te of
valuable material. But the weird Ferry is always
acceptable, especially when he twists his spine
round his neck and stands on his chin to scratch
himself.
The newly-patented automatic coal-loader,
the invention of a Sydney man, is an ingenious
contrivance, which, by gently lowering the coal
into a ship’s hold by means of a tray fitting into a
receiving hopper on deck, will greatly diminish
the risk of fire from “ heated ” coal-cargoes—the
risk of spontaneous ignition being greater the finer
the coal is broken.
Julian Ralph, the London Daily Mail
(Jingo paper— Rhodes organ) correspondent, des-
cribes the Boer position at Magersfontein, where
Methuen came down so heavily :
To-day several of us have been all over that position,
have studied its plan, have come away and reflected upon
it. And some are more amazed than before; more
puzzled, more at loss to account for whar occurred there.
These are the ones whose feelings have turned “ right-
about-face.” They say they used to wonder how such
Gibraltar-like impregnability could have been devised
and constructed on a prairie surface, and to think that
only an army as big as Germany's could beat it down and
aside. Now they wonder why we did not take the place,
or, rather, why things shaped themselves so much to our
disadvantage, for we all know why we did not take it.
Know, then, oh you generals at your city desks and you
military experts in the clu s, that it is true that all of us
have been most ridiculously deceived about the defences
of Magersfontein.
We used to hear from the ever-lying Boers, who came
to us as prisoners and deserters, that the trenches were
three in a row, and that before each trench was an
amazingly complicated “ trocha ” or obstruction of
barbed wires. Then we learned that 15,000 Boers had
stopped us there, and that the guns on the kopje were
mounted on disappearing trucks, and were lowered into the
pits after each firing. We were even told that the kopje
was pierced with tunnels, and that bomb-proof vaults
were built there for the Boers to hide in out of reach of
our lyddite. We believed all this. It salved our feelings
after having failed to take the place. It w'as better to
credit the most fabulous stories than to suppose the
position easily conquerable. At last we have seen the
place, and learned that at the point of our main attack
there is but a single trench, and that is reinforced by just
such a fence as farmers use, of round, smooth wire held
up by ordinary fence-posts. The guns were not on dis-
appearing mountings, and did not descend and rise into
and out of the earth. There is a sort of tunnel at one
place, but it is a mere wall of rocks covered over to con-
nect the wall with the foot of the kopje—a shelter way, a
shed.
So it seems that the huge fortifications of Magers-
fontein were invented first. Then guns had to be
invented to put in them. Then the marvellous
foreign experts were invented, for there had to be
alleged experts to make the alleged fortifications.
And then a huge Boer army had to be invented to
man the alleged Gibraltar, for a great fortress
needs a great army to hold it. And when the
huge fortress proved to be only an effort of imagi-
nation —merely a roughly-constructed ditch on a
bit of rising ground—then the great array of guns
on the vast defences that weren’t there, and the
experts who made the defences that weren’t there,
and a great part of the army that guarded the de-
fences which weren’t there, all fadeaway together.
Sing hey! The Orphan Heiress and the valiant
Funny Man,
Whose purpose in the drama is to baulk the
villain’s plan.
He smites him on the snout,
And lie lays the villain out.
He fights with evil forces, and he puts them all to
rout,
Does the valiant Funny Man.
Should the Hero he in danger he appears upon
the scene,
And the “ godlings ” twitter gaily, like the little
birds at e’en.
Godlings neither know nor care
How the Funny Man gets there
When lie comes to save the Hero, or the Heiress
in despair.
They simply wish to wallow in the wonders of
the stage.
Sing hey ! The Orphan Heiress and the Tiger in
the Cage,
The dim and doubtful Tiger in the Melbourne
Royal Gage.
Now the villain, oft defeated, thinks he sees an
easy chance
To destroy the Orphan Heiress by removing her to
France.
The maiden in her pride
Having scorned to tie his bride,
He arranges that a tiger, with some room for one
inside _
(Lots of room for one inside)
Shall consign the dainty morsel to the horrid
hiding place
Where it puts the daily dinner which it gobbles in
its face.
The villain hopes, at least,
To be present at the feast ;
A foreign Dan Fitzgerald is the owner of the
beast,
And lie undertakes to starve it to a state of
frenzied' rage—
Sing hey ! the toothsome heiress and the tiger in
the cage,
The hungry Orphan Tiger in the Melbourne Royal
cage.
The tigers kept by Nero for the martyr-girls in
Rome
Did not wobble like this monster at Fitzgerald’s
Hippodrome;
To judge it by its bark,
And its outline in the dark,
One would say that nothing like it ever entered
Noah’s Ark—
Good old Uncle Noah’s Ark.
We believe its name is Jackson, and it lives at
Collingwuod ;
But, anyhow, the creature seems to hanker after
food.
And the Heiress turneth pale
When it wags it wooden tail,
Then the Funny-Man comes forward (he was never
known to fail);
He saves her from that relic of a prehistoric age—
Sing hey ! The Orphan Heiress and the Tiger in
the cage—
The fierce fictitious Tiger in the Melbourne Royal
cage.
The WILD CAT
COUMN
Revenue returns for J uly. 1900, the first month
of the new financial year in N.S.YV., Queensland, Victoria
and Westralia, and the seventh month of the financial
year in Tasmania :
Increase as com-
Revenue. pared with July,
1899.
Westralia ... .. £203,601 .. £32,800
Victoria.. .. .. 608,569 .. 19,181
Tasmania .. .. 89,065 .. 9,748
Queensland „ ... 340,185 .. 3,881
Decrease as com-
pared with July,
1899.
New South Wales .. 778,385 .. £25,106
Tasmania's revenue for the seven months to 31st July,
1900, is £595,400, as compared with £541,865 for corres-
ponding seven months of last year, an increase of £53,535.
The man who telegraphs news from Tasmania calls the
increase £48,776, and Hobart Mercury publishes the
figures correctly enough, but adds them up so wildly that
it brings out the increase as £39,776, and the writer has
seen three other totally different results in other
Tasmanian papers. The island’s arithmetic is fearful and
wonderful to behold.
In proportion to population, the increases for
the present financial year, so far as it has got, are at this
rate per annum :
Increase per inhabitant per annum as
compared with last year.
Westralia .. .. £2 6 1
Tasmania .. .. 10 1
Victoria .. .. 4 0
Queensland .. 1 11
N.S.W. .. .. Decrease
S. A. .. .. No returns available.
The only other notable Item of information is that N.S.W.
spent £176,303 loan money in July as compared with
£142,451 loan money spent in July, 1899. Last year
showed the biggest loan expenditure since 1892, and tills
year promises to show a further increase.
* * * *
In Tasmania they somehow contrive to get out
the estimates of revenue and expenditure five months
ahead of tune, instead of five months behind as in the
other provinces. The estimates for the financial year
ending 31st Dec., 1901, are already out. This is how
things appear :
Accumulated Deficit at Ist January, 1896 .. £442,103
Less Surplus for 1896 47,733
Deficit at Ist January, 1897 £394,370
Less Surplus for 1897 59,993
Deficit at Ist January, 1898 £334,377
Less Suipius for 1898 78,056
Deficit at Ist January, 1899 £256,321
Less Surplus for 1899 .. 72,516
Deficit at Ist January, 1900 £183,805
Less Estimated Surplus for 1900 .. .. 113,743
Estimated Deficit at Ist January, 1901 .. £70,C62
Less Estimated Surplus for 1901 .. .. 73,420
Estimated Surplus at Ist January, 1902 .. £3,358
Tasmania has certainly toiled vigorously at paying off
its deficit with a view to starting clear under Federation.
The three years 1892-3-4 were years of big shortages, but
in 1895, when Federation came in view, Tasmania took its
coat off and waded in to clear off its arrears. No pro-
vince, except Westralia, has done so well in this direction.
If the island was equally honest over its loan expenditure
it would be the best-financed place in Australasia. Un-
luckily, it has the very worst and most disgraceful record
of the Seven Provinces for loan-misappropriation. The
one fact to be kept in view is that loans should only be
applied to cover works which produce direct revenue. To
apply them to non-productive works is a mean swindle on
posterity. And this, according to Coghian, was the
situation a year ago :
If the British lender took the trouble to find out how his
money was applied his opinion of more than one province
would probably drop with such a memorable thud that it
wouldn’t be able to borrow under 6 per cent, or more.
* * * »
Westralia’s revenue for the year ended 30th
June, 1899, was £2,875,395, and expenditure £2,615,674,
leaving a surplus of £259,721. It thus clears off the old de-
ficit of £247,349, and Westralia starts fair with a credit
balance of £12,372. This would be a favorable occasion to
enact that credit balances shall not be carried forward,
but shall go into a public-works fund, for railway con-
struction or the like. But perhaps Westralia isn’t taking
any such wise precautions just now.
* * * *
The Victorian Government proposes to offer a
£750,600 3 per cent, loan locally at par (,£500,000 in deben-
tures and £250,000 in inscribed stock). Victoria, even in
the most glorious of its boom-days, arid even when
money was at its cheapest in London, never got the
English investor to buy £750,000 of its 3 percent, stock
at anything like par. If it went to London with a 3 pei
cent, stock now it would probably be glad to sell it at £93
net—very glad. But 3 per cent, is considered good
enough to offer to the Australian capitalist. If the loan
fails because the Australian is asked to take it at a rate
which no English investor would look at, it will be held
as proving that Australia can’t supply so large a sum,
and probably the next Victorian loan will be offered in
London at 3.1 per cent. The average Australian Treasurer
is built like that.
♦ * » *
N.S.W. is also on the loan market—it wants to
borrow £500,000 locally at 34 per cent. This will make
£1,000,000 floated locally at 3j percent, within a very
short time. And again The Bulletin desires to ask the
Lyne-See Government what sort of financier it thinks it
is ? In February last that Government offerer! £1.1)06,000
of 4 per cent. N.S.W. debentures in London at £99 10s.,
and when the heavy London expenses were deducted it
got much less than £99 10s., with no allowance made for
the cost of remitting interest, and the loss of income-tax
on that, interest (British stockholders being exempt from
Australian income-tax, though Australian ones are not).
Minister See explained in the lordly way of a man who
knows all about finance, and who scorns amateur critics
even as the Deity might scorn the suggestions of a cock-
roach, that the money couldn’t have been got any more
cheaply in Australia, and probably so large an amount
couldn’t have been obtained in Australia at all. A few
weeks later his Government busted up the first explanation
by borrowing £500,606 in Sydney at 3 j percent., and getting
a higher price for the securities than London gave for 4
per cent, securities. Now it is going l to bust up the
second thin excuse by borrowing another £500,000 locally
at 34 per cent., making£l,6oo,ooo in all. When the Lyn'e
Government has thus raised £1,000,060 locally at 34 per
cent, it will be time for the country to ask it what it
meant by giving over 4 per cent, for £1,000,000 in London
on the ground that Australia couldn’t supply so much
money, what it thinks of it's knowledge of the Australian
money-market, what it thinks of its capacity for fooling
away this country’s coin in needless interest, and why if
there were two millions to be borrowed, it didn’t give this
country a show for the 4 per cent, loan—in short, why
the Australian investor should always he regarded as ah


’WARE IMITATORS
X GEORGE FLAIvELAR, of Kalgoorlie, in
§ the colony of Western Australia, Cordial
Manufacturer, do hereby apologise for having
infringed the trade mark of the Zetz Spa Pro-
prietary, Limited, of Sydney, in the colony of
New South Wales, by selling a mineral water
bearing the name of “ Zet Spa” in labelled
bottles. I undertake not to continue selling water
labelled in any manner resembling the “Zetz
Spa ” trade mark. 1 have agreed to pay, and
have paid, the legal expenses incurred by the
Zetz Spa Proprietary, Limited, in connection
with the said infringement, and have authorised
the Manager of the Company to make use of this
apology as he may see fit.
Dated this sth day of July, 1900.
ZETZ-SPA Water
Has Many Imitators; But No Equals.
9
Famous
Pcbaeec#
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
HAfY AHD WAR OFFIOE.
PACKED IN 4. 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
mn
11 THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.”
Cope Bros, & Co„ Ltd., Liverpool. Agents; M. Rutty & Co,, Sydney,
Scottish Critic, September, 1890: “This
enterprising- Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society has
reached a position of great progressive strength. In 1889
the position was sound and strong, hut the situation has
been relatively more than doubled in strength.*
* * * *
Mr. Edward J. Rigby, Managing Director of
the Austral Otis Engineering Co., South Melbourne, has
sailed for London per R.M.S. China, on business con-
nected with his company. Mr. Rigby expects to be away
about six months, and will return via America. Prior to
his departure he was entertained by the officers of the
company, at the Castlemaine Hotel, South Melbourne,
and presented with a handsome travelling bag as a mark
of the respect and esteem in which he is held.*
* » * *
Cyanide, caustic soda, chloride of lime, and all
mining and assay chemicals and apparatus, can he ob-
tained of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne, who
have issued a very handsome illustrated catalogue of all
mining requisites, price Is. 3d. post free.
• * •
•
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creerv, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
* * * #
The carelessness of certain steam-users in not
looking after their boilers and the results of neglecting to
clean them regularly when incrustation takes place has
often been pointed out in The Bulletin. A discncrustat-
ing boiler compound known as “ Litofuge,” with a world-
wide reputation, is being placed upon the market by AV.
and J. Leinpriere, 506 Little Collins-st., Melbourne, who
upon application will be pleased to forward catalogues to
those interested. “ Litofuge ” compounds are powders
without soda, fatty matter or injurious chemicals, which
injure rather than improve boilers. Its action is mechani-
cal and its introduction into a boiler causes no foaming *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all ifcning requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfield Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
* » * •
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* • * .
Glenfine South, Vic. The directors :—“ We
congratulate the shareholders on the continued richness
of the quartz in every part of the mine where the reef
has been intersected, and feel justified in stating that we
have what promises to be the greatest mine that has ever
been opened in Victoria.” Remarkably tall talk this after
the Long Tunnel, Garden Gully United, Band and Albion,
and numerous others. So far, the Glenfine South has
done nothing in the way of divs., and the quartz reef is
certainly not sufficiently developed to warrant any such
prediction. Better wait another year, anyhow. Market
value over £300,000. Compare this with mines at Han-
nan’s that have never had a crushing, have no prospect of
one, and yet have doubled this valuation !
BLEACHING POWDER. 36 38%
Caustic Soda, Carl>. Soda, Borax. 7 Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash. Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 817.
Ny. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 08 Currie-st.. Adel.; 27 Bw/le-s'treet,
Brink. ; Lambton Quay, V ellinyton, NZ.;
Water-street , Dunedin ; Qur n-street, Auckland.
AUSTRALIAN ME l AL CO. LTD.
1 St James’s Buildiscjs,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Met ‘s amt Ores,
importers of Cyanide of Pc tisalum (98/100 per cent
ausrauss •JSSvrsssi
Inferior animal, not deserving of the satne rate of interest
as the superior London person 7 At 4 per cent, it is safe
to wager the Lvne Government could get two or three
millions locally—let alone one.
* * * *
The Bulletin recently published a statement
of the progress of the .South Australian State Land Bank
(“ Wild Cat Column,” 14th July) and the Y’icturian State
Land Bank (“ YY’ild Cat Column,” 21st July). The following
are some corresponding figures for the Maori land Ad-
vances to Settlers’ Department. This concern started on
quite a different principle from the S.A. and Vic. institu-
tions. The latter sell bonds locally as the money is re-
quired, and so never have any large sum lying idle on
which full interest has to be paid while full interest is not
being earned. The M.L. State Land Bank commenced by
floating a £1,500,000 3 per cent, loan in England, whereby
it lost £105,897 in discount right off. Then in 1899 it
floated a £500,000 3 per cent, loan in England, and lost
another £28,141 in discount. It thus started with a
stupendous dead horse on its premises. Also, by borrow-
ing huge lump sums in England, it had large amounts of
money on hand for which it had to seek temporary in-
vestments as best it could. Results, so far, including the
losses on loans floated in England, are these :
Loss.
15 months to 31st March, 1896 .. .. £137,056
Fro fit.
12 „ „ 1897 .. „ 1,954
12 „ „ 1893 .. „ 23,929
12 „ „ 1899 .. „ 17.598
Loss.
12 „ „ 1900 .. .. 14,068
Net Loss £107,643
The loss to March, 189 G, consisted of loss on float-
ing loan in England (£105,897), and the inevitable debit
on the first year’s working of a new institution (£31,159).
The debit in 1900 consisted of £28,141 loss on floating the
second loan (£500,000) in England, less a working profit
of £14,073. The profit was grievously diminished through
having to pay full interest on the new loan, most of which
was planted in comparatively unprofitable temporary
investments. The net result is that the Maoriland
Advances to Settlers Department has made an actual
working profit of £26,395, and has lost £134,038 in dis-
counts on the flotation of £2,099,000 of 3 per cent loans in
England. As the loans are not repayable till 1945 there is
abundant time to make good this huge loss out of earn-
ings. Still the M.L. Advances to Settlers Department
compares badly with the Vic. State Land Bank, which
shows a clear profit of £5693 after three years’ working, or
the S.A. State Bank with a net profit of £6936 on four
years working. The two latter raisj their loans locally as
they need them. They have, consequently, no huge sums
lying idle at any time. They don’t make big losses on
their loan flotations. They both lend money more
cheaply than the Maoriland institution has done. And
the S.A. State Bank, which nominally pays 3i per cent,
on its local borrowings, really gets money more cheaply
than the M.L. concern does by borrowing at 3 per cent, in
London, when all the losses, discounts and extras are
allowed for.
* * » *
The Queensland Trustees, Limited, which has
just finished its 12th year, begins already to show an ill-
considered hunger after big dividends. It was about 1893
that the Queensland Trustees, whose early growth was
very gradual, began to be a profit-earning institution,
though even then it had a debit balance of £276, acquired
through losses in its early and unprofitable years, to write
off. Since then its record has been :
June, 1892 .. Debit balance.. £276
Dividends and Dividend-
Profit. dutv.
June, 1893 .. £lOO Nil
„ 1894 .. 1,065 2J per cent. .. 662
„ 1895 .. 714 2j „ .. 662
„ 1896 .. 920 3 „ .. 795
„ 1897 .. 1,077 3£ „ .. 927
„ 1898 .. 1,195 4 „ .. 1,061
„ 1899 .. 2,248 7 „ .. 1.856
„ 1900 .. 3,359 8 „ .. 2,121
£10,678 £3,360
This leaves the Queensland Trustees with £2313 accu-
mulated profit, out of which it now sets aside £lOO9 as
the nucleus of a reserve fund and carries £l3lB forward.
The profits sir . are certainly increasing in a remarkable
fashion. Still a ui’ustee co., more than any other insti-
tution save a life insurance office, depends for continued
prosperity on its impregnable solidity, and when its
nominal capital is only £202,000, and its paid-up capital
£25,250, and it hopes some day to be trusted with millions
of the public’s money, it requires a reserve fund of
£lOO,OOO at least to give it the solid aspect that the case
calls for. If the business keeps on growing at the present
rate, and the management stops the violent expansion of
the dividend at the present very satisfactory 8 per cent.,
and the accumulation is invested in first-class securities,
there should be a chance to make the Queensland Trustees
a most solid affair. Or if, on the other hand, the dividend
keeps ballooning upwards, it may remain for an indefinite
period a small and rather weak concern, just as it is now.
* * * *
Ballarat (Vic.) ia in one sense a remarkable
place ; it is the only city not a capital (bar Launceston)
Which runs its own local bank and its own trustee co.
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. started
under certain difficulties inasmuch as it bought a ready-
made business, and the goodwill thereof was for a number
of years a large paper-asset in its balance-sheet. This has
now been wiped off, and the co. is able to lay the founda-
tions of a reserve fund and see a decent business prospect
before it. Some recent figures from its accounts are as
follows:
Written off
Profit. Goodwill. Dividend.
December, 1897 .. £7OB £250 7 per cent. = £525
June, 1898.. .. 746 250 5 per cent. = 375
December, 1898 .. 949 500 7 per cent. = 525
June, 1899.. .. 1071 500 7 percent. = 525
December, 1899 .. 1041 590 7 per cent. = 525
To Reserve
Fund.
June, 1900.. .. 1123 £5OO 8 per cent. = £6OO
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. has
thus finally written-off the paper “ goodwill ” asset which
has been on its premises for 12. j years, and, after writing
£lB2 off furniture, it has reserves amounting to £725
'(reserve fund, £509, and undivided profit, £225). Tins
isn’t very much, but it is much bet er than any previous
result, and the institution appears now in a position to
pay regular 8 per cent dividends and yet build up a solid
reserve—always providing it doesn't, like sundry Melb.
cos., take to putting its reserves into shaky mort-
gages for the sake of high interest, and lose them just
when they are becoming interesting. State securities
and first-class municipal debentures should he good
enough for any trustee co. which wants to inspire public
confidence.
• • • •
Richardson and Wrench, Limited (Sydney):—
*»«*■ 'SSSMf
Dec., 1899 .. £2071 .. £5OO .. 5 per cent. =£lsoo
June, 1900 .. 2448 .. 900 .. „ „ = 1500
Richardson and YY r rench was an 8 per cent, dividend-pay-
ing affair at one time, but the returns gradually crept
down to 4 per cent, in 1897, and got down after that as
low as 3 per cent. It is now hack at 5 per cent., with im-
proving prospects. The co.'s situation, after paying the
dividend, is :
Liabilities. Assets.
Capital.. .. £60,000 Cash. &e. ..£2,, <32
Debts .. .- 18,270 Goodwill.. .. 61,000
Profit balance .. 462
£78,732 £78,732
The goodwill item was once £57,500, so £6500 has been
written-off out of profits. Still even now there is very
little to show for the capital except goodwill.
* * • *
A really gorgeous profit-earning institution is
the Newcastle-YY'allsend (N.S. YV.) Coal Co. Here are some
figures from its last two balance-sheets :
Profits. Dividends.
December, 1899 ..£7,128 15 percent.- £7,500
June, 1900 .. .. 7,577 15 „ =
And these are very lean times with the Newcastle-YY all-
send Coal Co. In 1891 it paid 42£ per cent., and it stood
fast as a 20 per cent dividend-paying concern for a very
long time before it dropped to the present level of 15 per
cent. The shareholders have got their capital hack
several times over, and the grand old mine is still going.
Its balance-sheet, however, is a rather hilarious example
of accountancy. Out of £163,000 assets, £58,481 is sim-
ply described as “ Reserve Fund,” and “ Indemnity
Account,” and “General Account.” Most concerns
put reserve funds among the liabilities, and place
among the assets a statement of the securities
held to represent the amount. The N.-YV. Coal Co.
puts among the liabilities “ Reserve Fund, £28,158,” and
among the assets “ Reserve Fund, £28,158,” and leaves it
at that. Something is certainly said about loans, hut
whether they are loans on mortgage, or personal security,
or shares, or hogs, the document doesn't state. The
balance-sheet which implies there are £58,481 of assets in
the co.’s possession, hut refuses to mention exactly what
they are, is interesting in its own little way.
. » • *
Some recent figures re the North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. (Sydney) :
p Added to Dividend and
Half-year to Bront. Reserve. Bonus per annum.
30th Julie,’99 ..£5286 .. £247 8 per cent. =£s 39
31st Dec.,’99 .. 56J0 .. 350 8 ~ = 5250
30th June,’oo .. 5581 .. 331 8 „ = 5250
The paid-up capital is £131,250, and there are total re-
serves of £20,703. At 31 st Dec.,’96, total reserves were
£18,889, so a reasonable amount of progress is shown.
« » * *
“Member”: A most unseemly aspect of the
A.M.P. Society business-extension imbroglio is the un-
blushing manner in which the officials of the Society were
put forward, or put themselves forward, at the meeting of
policy-holders, to back-up the directors. lam enraged at
and utterly ashamed of the attitude assumed h.v “ the
office ” in regard to this extension proposal, which is cal-
culated to do the Society unspeakable harm. The A.M.P.
is a great national institution which carries the fortunes
of thousands of people ; as such, it should be conducted
in every detail with the scrupulous honesty and unwaver-
ing dignity which characterise the proceedings of the
Supreme Court. I say it is an unspeakable disgrace to
the directorate that the distribution of proxy-forms should
have been conducted in a manner worthy not of the clean
and straightforward traditions of the A.M.P., but more in
keeping with the low-down practices of the racecourse-
practitioner or the devious ways of the out-at-elbows
YY'ater Police Court shark. There is a widespread feeling
that the interests of the office are being utterly subordi-
nated to the raving eagerness of certain officials to get to
England into the imperial limelight—that the A.M.P. is
now the helpless victim of an aggressive and unscrupulous
bureaucracy. “ The office ” can't have much conscience,
in view of that shameless proxy-trick from which it so
reluctantly backs-down.
Some figures regarding the Civil Service Mutual
Building and Investment Society, Sydney :
Dividends.
Profits, June 30,1895 .. £435 21 per cent .. £379
„ „ 1896 .. 453 2.Y „ .. 379
„ „ 1897.. 359 2-i „ .. 379
, „ 1898.. 501 „ .. 379
„ „ 1899.. 462 2j „ .. 379
„ „ 1900.. 467 l£ „ .. 190
£2,677 £2,085
On the face of things this looks as if the Civil Service
Building Society had improved its position by £592
in the last six years, but it hasn’t. At 30th June,
1894, it had £2J49 of reserves (contingent fund,
£1251 ; and profit balance, £798). From some
source not explained the contingent fund received
additions of £279. They didn’t purport to come out of
profits, nor did they' come from any stated source what-
ever, and there was no visible transfer of these amounts
—they simply got there. Then, by the writing off of
£l7lB, the whole contingent fqiid and £lBB of the profit
balance has disappeared, and it is also announced that
the reserve fund of £lOO9 (built up in 1896-7-8) will be
wanted to cover more losses. This will leave the Civil Ser-
vice Building Society with total reserves of £202, so that
the society, despite the miserably small dividends it has
paid, is £iB47 poorer than it was six years ago. YY’hich
isn’t a cheering prospect for a very small institution.
* » '» *
Lassetter and Co., the Sydney ironmongers and
universal providers, now add banking to their other pur-
suits, and offer 4 per cent, interest on current accounts.
This is an interesting departure. Only one Australian
bank (the Royal, of Melbourne) pays interest on current
accounts.
* * * *
Sydney Ferries, Ltd., publishes its first balance-
sheet (for half-year to 30th June, 1900). The net profits
are £4701, which is equal to £7 16s. Bd. per cent,
per annum on the paid-up capital of £120,000. A
7 per cent, dividend absorbs £4200, and £5Ol is
carried forward. The old North Shore Steam Ferry
Co., which recently changed its name to the Syd-
ney Ferries, paid 10 per cent, dividends for many years,
but in view of the fact that the new co. has twice as large
a capital to pay dividends on it makes a good start.
Elder, Smith and Co. Jfimited (Adelaide): —
June, 1892.. Profit £19,142 June, 1597.. Profit £11,285
„ 1893 .. „ 22,700 „ IS9B .. „ 8.590
„ 1894.. „ 23,962 „ 1599 .. „ 15,001
„ 1895.. „ 15,433 „ 1900.. „ 22,906
„ 1896 .. „ 22,679
At June, 1893, Elder, Smith and Co. had a reserve fund of
£35,000, and undivided profits (including the year’s earn-
ings of £22,700) £31,781, making £66.781 in all. It paid
no dividend that year, and wrote off £78,982 for drought
losses and other troubles. Therefore it started afresh on
Ist Ju1y,1893, with no reserve and £12,201 accumulated
losses. It paid 5 per cent, dividend at June, 1894 ; 6 per
cent, in ’95, ’96, ’97, ’9B, ’99 ; and this year it pays 9 per
cent., absorbing £17,100. The profits shown are over and
above £5725 applied to writing off the last of a goodwill item
(the original amount isn’t stated, hut provision has
been made for its reduction each year), and £10,920 applied
to write down land and premises. The debit balance has
been paid off, and there is £35,454 undivided profit to
carry forward. Under these circumstances it is some-
what surprising that the management doesn’t carry
£35,000 to a new reserve fund, to replace the one which
so unfortunately flickered out in 1893.
There is little doubt that there’s a fly in the
ointment of the Lyndhurst Gold Field, Ltd., near
Mandurama, N.S. YV. The difficulty lies in the success-
ful treatment of concentrates and tailings by cyanidation ;
and the resignations of the co.’s metallurgists have
followed each other in rapid succession during the past 18
months. The latter infer that their labors have hern
hampered by the continual interference of somebody
whose technical education has been sadly neglected.
B.H. North’s prospects go on improving, and
the Junction North’s don’t. Latest developments in the
latter are puzzling ; the lode at the bottom level seems to
have been cut in two, and neither leg is of much account.
Further along, the Junction is improving a trifle ; but the
bright star of the northern group is the North. Its ore,
though only fairly rich, has the advantage of being easily
milled.
• * * *
New Mount nope Copper, N.S.W. Mine still
worked by tribulors and a div. of Is., amounting to
£l2OO, paid out of royalty, leaving a balance of nearly
£3OOO to carry forward. Property, including buildings,
plant, and tailings-heaps, under offer for £30,000 to the
crowd which lately acquired Great Central Freehold Mine
in same district." By the way, what became of the
attempt to float the latter into a concern much bigger
than was warranted by previous work, or even by the
magnificence of the men connected with it ?
* * * * 9
Girilambone Copper, N.S.W. Yet another
change in management. Blakemore has resigned, and
Thomas Hoskins, a well-known copper mining man, has
taken his place.
• * * *
Sydney D.T. describes the Conrad mine, Bora
Creek, N.S.W. (understood to be a really fine property),
as “ the best silver-lead mine in Australia, excepting, of
course, the mines located on the great Broken Hill field.”
Faint praise. Writer is unaware of any paying silver-
mine in Australia outside of Broken Hill and Bora Creek,
unless Zeehan (Tas.) silver lead mines are included.
• * * *
Broken Hill Laborites, bossed by the crude but
masterful Jabez Wright, call for a contribution of £18,200
this year from the mining cos. by way of town rates.
Last year, when fhe party had just a little h-ss than a
majority, the total was £3400. Broken Hill Prop, goes up
from £2OOO to £6400. Three mines are asked to pay
£12,900 ; the whole of the house and other property in
the municipality is assessed at £7lOO. The cos. may
appeal, but the law is so vague that the council has
been advised that almost any basis of valuation is per-
missible under it.
* * * *
Assays of Wertago (Bunker Hill) copper stuff,
taken from about 75ft. in the shaft, give from 20 to 35
per cent, copper and enough silver to swear by. Some
really fine-looking stuff was sent through lately to S.A.
smelting works via Broken Hill. The only question is as
to whether there is a settled formation at depth, or
whether the same jumble that exists at surface continues
down for a hit and then, afflicted with Centralian tired-
ness, leaves off.
» • * *
Sydney D.T. last week warned mining specula-
tors re “ a certain N. Queensland copper property ” on the
ground that reports as to its value were very contradic-
tory. Now, no name was given, and as there are quite a
number of copper properties in N.Q. a stigma is placed on
every copper-mine in that region.
* * * *
Among Queensland mines, up to Jan., 1899, Mt.
Morgan had paid £4,434,996 in divs. ; Brilliant, £523,333 ;
Brilliant and St. George, £312.600 ; Victory, £285.925 ;
Mills’ Day Dawn, £292,500 ; Victoria, £240,000 ; Brilliant
Block, £73,750 ; Croydon Consols, £55,000 ; Queen Cross,
£36,800.
* * * »
A Cooktown correspondent tells The Bulletin
that Ebagooda goldfield promises much when rain sets in,
and is worth the at'' : >n of capitalists. May town pro-
perties are being ta.. up with a view to business.
• * » •
Q. mining items: Towers market wears a wor-
ried look, the aftermath of recent excitement ; English
buyers now holding baby. Gympie feebly clawing the
air. Some Bullites going to spend more money at Long
Tunnel, Kilkivan. Two red-hot syndicate ewm-mining-
raihvay schemes proposed in Q. Assembly—one to Callide
Creek, near Gladstone ; other, in the wilds, near Burke-
town. Coen rush dying grimly—want of water and gold.
Some results : G.vmpie—2 S. G. Eastern, 1147 tons for
17330 z., Is. div. and 9d. bonus ; N. Smithfield, 195 tons,
3'Jlozs., Cd. div. Charters Towers —Brilliant Extended,
412 tons, 3770 z., a marked improvement; Band of Hope,
481 tons, 4590 z. ; Kelly’s, 720 tons, 8370 z. ; Brilliant and
St. George, 1400 tons, 14750 z. ; Brilliant, 3d. div. ; Queen
Cross, 104 tons, 1330 z., rather disappointing ; New Queen
and Brilliant Central, looking well.
The Westralian market livened up in Australia
on Thursday last and went still better on Friday and
Saturday- all, as usual, on account of London market.
Saturday and Monday were Stock Exchange holidays in
London, so nothing could be done in Sydney on Monday
or Tuesday, and very little in Adelaide. YVhen London
goes on holiday Sydney Stock Exchange goes to sleep, as
far as YV.A. business is concerned. Associateds 715.,
representing an advance of about £130,000. Last month’s
return, 2721 tons (sulphides) 1711ozs. —not good enough to
pay. A meeting of discontented shareholders held a
month ago in London, nominated Frank Gardiner for the
Board and he agreed to accept the chairmanship under
certain conditions. Two others were nominated. The
shares rose 10s. soon after the meeting and one London
paper put it all down to the great things that Gardiner
would do if he got control of the mine. If a better chair-
man would make the Associateds a better mine, writer
could understand the change. The working of mine and
mill must have involved a loss this year alone of £lOO,OOO
and the last report gives no hope of any immediate im-
provement. The shares are shot at whenever they go
over 70s. and are bought for “ cover,” or for a rise when-
ever, they go much below it, and it is the extent of these
gambling transactions that prevents their going to £l,
which is quite their full value on present appearances.
• * * *
Associated Northerns, 455. in London, went to
475. in Adelaide—a substantial rise. Increasingly evident
that this mine has got the Brownhill run of gold in the
sulphide zone. This would account for the latter having
a long fiat run of oxidised ore and a comparatively short
one of sulphide, which rapidly dips towards the N.A.
The latter has rich sulphide at 270 ft. level quite close to
Brownhill and Brownhill Extended boundaries, and has
sulphides richer still at 400 ft. level from a shaft over 400 ft.
away south. Should the drives prove high values all the
way and the winzes going down establish depth, this
miiiewill beaverv bigproducer, hut the “if” is always to he
remembered. The show is somewhat cursed by its name.
Most people imagine that it joins the Associated mine,
though it is a considerable distance away and on a dis-
tinct line of lode. There is also a N.YV. Associated about
a mile away—an unquestionable “ cat,” which has got
an.\ quantity of ground proved worthless from one end to
the other. There is also a Southern Associated and an
Auxiliary Associated, both of the same “ category.”
Perseverance, £l2 2s. If the market were only
as correct a guide in some of the mines as it is in this
great show there would be little to complain of. Value
recently established at 700 ft., and there is no reason to
doubt permanency to double the depth. A grand mine,
but at over £2,000,000 the shares are high enough.
* * * *
Lake View Consols, £l4 7s. Gd. Only an ad-
vance of a-quarter of a million for the week ! I The shares
are far too high, if the stories of the poverty of the lode
at the 600 and 700 ft. levels are true.
• * * *
Great Boulder, 335. No rise whatever for the
week. Imagine this mine, with all its developments and
magnificent sulphide plant, having a half-million lower
valuation than the Consols, although its price is quite
high enough as a mining investment—particularly as one
that costs over £7OOO a year to manage in London. It
takes a more than average Australian gold-mine to pay
that alone. Though the G.B. started with a had reputa-
tion, great and lasting richness has redeemed everything
but the blot ol London extravagant management. °
* * * *
Ivanhoes, £ll. The public now hear from the
dailies that it is not true the output will. be very much
lower this month, because it is quite certain that a lot of
gold will be got by cleaning up the cyanide plant pub-
lished (juite unmindful of the admission that the ore now
running through is much below average. After this
writer can well believe that last month's return was made
up bv scraping the plates. M'Kinnon, the ex-manager,
admitted before leaving that the average grade of the
oxidised reserve was not so good as the former manager
had estimated, but he declared that the average output
could be kept up for a few months, and the time for a big
fall has now nearly arrived, liemarkable, too, that at
time of writing July’s output was not known, although a
week in August had elapsed. A big effort is probably
being made to scrape up extra gold in some direction or
other.
* * * *
Kalgurlis, £G 7a. Gd. It is impossible for the
mill, judging from the first three returns, to pay anything
like a fair mining interest on this price, and there is not
enough ore reserve in the mine to warrant a duplication
of it. South Kalgurlis at 965. would be quite dear enough
if the output were double.
* * » *
Oroya. 395 tons of sulphides treated at Fre-
mantle smelters for 861 oz. gold ; 564 tons oxidised ore
crushed at mine prior to closing-down of milling plant
gave 170 oz. Total, 959 tons, 1031 oz. lOdwt.—average,
loz 13dwt. This is wired to the dailies as if it repre-
sented the usual thing from the mine. No mention of the
fact that, while it has been for a long time crushing
oxidised ores that average under sdwt., it has taken at
least six months to obtain the 395 tons sulphides. Writer
is quite sure that if the cost of getting and treating these
sulphides is given a loss and not a profit will be shown.
Shares, 275. They would be dear at 7s.
» • • •
A British syndicate of pie-biters is already
reaching out for the tramway-rights of Boulder (W.A.).
Boulder is a small place, and when its little tram-system
is loaded with the cost of a local office and manager,
London office, manager, secretary, clerks, and
guinea-pig directors, the usual boodle for the pro-
moters, the travelling-expenses of the occasional expert
or director who is “sent out to report,” and the 6 per
cent, dividend to shareholders, it will have to be the
hardest sweater in Australasia to make ends meet. If
the trains were built by the corporation there would be no
promoters’ boodle, flotation-of-company expenses, cost of
floating debentures, no London office, manager, secretary,
clerks, and directors, nocahlegrams, no travelling expenses,
and a return of 4 per cent, on the money expended would
meet all charges. Boulder Council wants to build the
tramways itself, but under the remarkable Westralian
law another authority, the Roads Board, has the whole
power of decision. The Roads Board mostly represents
Property. It is created chiefly by the votes of the repre-
sentatives of the English-owned mining co.’s and certain
potentates of the English mining syndicates compose the
English tramway syndicate also. These individuals pro-
pose, practically, to grant themselves, against the will of
the people, or without consulting the people, a promising
concession whereby they may profitably loot the people
ftr many years—probably for as long as Boulder exists.
'** » *
Hannan’s Proprietary Development Co.: Armed
men lately broke into the camp (erected by (Jeorge CJrey,
and for long notorious for its gorgeousness), threatened to
shoot the manager and his wife, ransacked his clothes,
found the key of the safe, and looked for gold, while the
manager was revolver-covered. The burglars regretted
they had been misinformed about the quantity of gold
said to be there ; and the manager replied that the gold
was kept at the mine. ' They then returned the manager’s
watch, after binding him with strips of sheeting, and
tying up his wife’s hands. They got away with 10s.
Innocent burglars, to think of finding gold at such a place !
The co. itself has spent about £150,000 in that task with-
out result. If Jt could get any guarantee of finding it by
burglars, a hundred would soon be employed for the pur-
pose.
(Continued on page 25.)


OVERCOATS FOR THE WINTER SEASON
PALMERSTON OVERCOATS—
-42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
W. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Vicuna, Satin Facings and Fore-parts,
63s
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
. Single-Breasted.
BLUE AND FAWN BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
BLUE AND FAWN MELTON CLOTH,
52s 6d
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d,
42s
CLERICAL BLACK WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in TWEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s 6d
D.B. BLUE NAP, 50s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS,
with DEEP CAPE,
Fan ji cotch Tweeds, 30s, 355, 50s, 55s
New
Smart
Shapes
PADDOCK COATS-
-56 to 58 inches in Length.
FAWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 58s 6d, 65s '
EAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVERT
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 54 to 56 inches in
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d.
COVERT COATS-
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 6d
Fawn Beaver, 45s
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES—
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth Facings, 40s
Black Vicuna, with Satin Facings, 47s 6d, 63s
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
Orient Clothiers, George & Barrack Streets, SYDNEY.
nm
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH.
SGRUBB’S
CLOUDY
FLUID
n
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates.
Restores the Colour to Carpets. Cleans Plate and Jewellery.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales—
ELLIOTT BROS., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
mn
SOCIETY
The Duke of Edinburgh died of cancer at
the base of the tongue. No word of his hopeless
illness had reached Australia before news of his
demise was cabled. The Duke was an innocent
actor in one of the greatest disasters which has
ever befallen N.S.W.— i.e., the Clontarf incident.
When the madman O’Farrell, scion of a family of
lunatics, shot H.R.H. with a pistol,.he inflicted
oh the body politic a wound which festered for
decades, and around which buzzed for long and
bitter years all the blowflies of sectarian politics.
To such depths of hatred (and snobbery) did
N.S.W. descend as a consequence of the maniac’s
deed, that when the distinguished Butler Cole
Aspinall, Q.C., then Australia’s foremost advo-
cate, came to Sydney to defend O’Farrell before a
judge and jury, the members of Sydney’s leading
club actually declined to admit him as an honorary
member —until the Duke had snubbed them by
publicly walking down King-street arm-in-ami
with Mr. Aspinall, than whom he had no closer
friend in Australia, and for one of whose sons he
subsequently provided a place in the navy. Of
course that didn’t cost anything; the Duke was
as close-fisted as the meanest of his forbears, and
had about his character none of the off-handedness
which has so much conduced to the personal
popularity of the Prince of Wales.
* * • »
Melb. Argus actually put its advertise-
ments in mourning in honor of Prince Alfred, and
local drapery firms hung festoons of crape around
their gorgeously-filled windows.
When the Duke of Edinburgh visited Ade-
laide in ’67, his portmanteaux were robbed; in
Melbourne, the late Capt. Standish, Commissioner
of Police, took him in tow, for certain tender rea-
sons ; and in Sydney O’Farrell tried to kill him.
It used to be said, at the time, with a rough ap-
proximation to the truth: “In Adelaide, the
Prince lost his jewels, in Melbourne his morals,
and in Sydney his life.”
* * *
September Ist (Eight-Hours Day) in Ade-
laide is made a'holiday (under an Act of 1886) in
lieu of the Duke of Edinburgh’s birthday, which
was ordered to be celebrated under an Act of 1873.
Parliament had not the pluck to say right out that
Eight-Hours Day itself should be celebrated, but
got over the difficulty by a subterfuge. Now that
the Dulce is dead, however, it will be absurd to
continue the celebration of his birth, and it will
be interesting to watch the means by which the
trouble will be surmounted.
* * * *
Of the third batch of invalided N.S.W.
warriors from S’Africa, —recently arrived in
Sydney per S.S. Oonah —only 3 had been wounded
(and two of them accidentally), the whole balance
of 59 being accounted for by enteric fever—with a
stray case or so of dysentery.
* * * *
Verbal appeal addressed to an Australian
officer supposed by the German father of a war-
like young Cornstalk to have a big say in the
selection of a contingent for China
My son haf told me dot he volunteer to go to China.
Veil I don’t vant him to China go, und Chinamen kill,
pecause he might himself get killed, und dot I do not
vant.
He also might get brisoner daken, und den I lose him
again, unless he be exchanged, und I do not vant him
exchanged for a Chinaman.
He also might drowned get, und den I lose him again
pecause I cannot go mit him to see that the ship gets not
slnken. So I think it better he stop at home mit the
peesnes und learn to sell goots to Chinamen instead of
killed gotten by Boxers.
Dere is plenty of fathers who their sons to get killed
vish, but dot is not me, so please his name to take off
list.
* * * *
An Imperial officer, writing from S’Africa
to a Sydney resident, gives high praise to Colonel-
Surgeon “Billy” Williams’s N.S.W. Field Hos-
pital, and thinks the equipment-system thereof is
likely to be adopted by the British military
authorities. The chances are that Colonel WiK
liams—the officer to whom Olive Schreiner alluded
as “ su.ch a fine man, just like a Boer ’’—will come
out of this business with more kudos than any
other Australian, and perhaps with a more sub-
stantial decoration as well. It’s the organiser
who is invaluable on active service.
PROOF POSITIVE.
LITTLE GIRL: “Papa, ’ ere’s a pussy got three little kittens." PAPA: “ Well?"
LITTLE GORL: “And I didn't know she was married.”
Apropos the
bombshell east
into the Vic.
Religion - in -
State - Schools
camp by the
Melb. Luther-
ans (who con-
tend that reli-
gious instruc-
tion by the
State is con-
trary to the
constitution of
the provinoe,
and that State
instruction in
religion is im-
possible unless
denominational
and dogmatic).
The Commis-
sion of mixed
religions which
is drawing up
Scripture - les-
sons in Melb.
has edited the
Bible to the
literary level of
a British
Workman.
Eve r y t hing
thatisquestion-
able in fact has
been struck out.
The Creation,
with its pictur-
esque story of
Adam and
Eve, has had
to go under
because it won’t agree with geology ! Joshua no
longer commands the sun to stand still. Noah does
not sail on a deluge that covers the earth, and in
all probability when this band of parsons reaches
the story of Joseph they will deem the allegation
that he ran away from Mrs. Potiphar far too strong
for the boys of Victoria to swallow. The up-to-
date Bible, reconciled with modern science by the
Melb. clergy, will be the funniest volume pub-
lished since Mark Twain got off “Huck Finn.”
* * * *
It is stated that the chief opposition to
the Imperial naval acceptance of the S.A. gun-
boat Protector with her Australian crew, for work
in China, came from Admiral Pearson and his
officers, who considered that, if the boat were
sent, she should carry full-blown naval officers.
Capt. Clare, the commander of the vessel, was for
many years in the merchant service on the
Chinese coast, which he knows well. He is a
quiet, cool, courteous gentleman, who hitherto
has had nothing to do with guns or bloodshed.
The final acceptance of the Protector’s service is
generally ascribed in Adelaide to the intercession
of Gov. Tennyson.
* * * *
The departure of the Naval Contingent
from Melbourne last week was something like a
fiasco. The crowd was microscopic compared
with the farewelling mobs that filled the city when
the S’African contingents passed out, and there
was a lamentable lack of enthusiasm in the whole
show, including the heroes themselves, who, when
they were not full of beer, were obviously lacking
in spirit. But many of them were so full of the
Australian national beverage that they had to be
loaded into cabs and conveyed to the pier in a
state of inglorious obliviousness. The spectacle
provided by one beautiful boy in blue sagging half
out of a cab, paralysed by salicylic acid, was the
mo J affecting scene of the day. The hero who
audibly requested his Waxellency to be “blowed”
in the midst of his first spasm of oratory was pro-
bably under the same baleful influence.
* • • •
Tell us—why on earth should the sep-
tuagenarian Captain Hixson (late President of
the celebrated N.S.W. Marine Board) be sent to
China with the N.S.W. naval forces? More
flummery !
* * * *
“ Willy Governor ” is to be on the spot to
grasp the hand of the Governor-General when he
lands on the harbour foreshore. The eternal fitness
of things ; it would not do for a really representa-
tive Australian to represent the Commonwealth
in the welcome given a Governor-General ap-
pointed by people other than the Australian
citizens.
* * * *
A good many of the employers who enthu-
siastically promised last year to keep Private
Smith’s billet open for him till he came back from
contingenting in S’Africa have nearly forgotten
that promise by now. The man who was put
temporarily into Private Smith’s place has grown
more or less permanent by effluxion of time. He
knows the. work now, while Private Smith has ;
been forgetting it on the veldt. He doesn’t want
to waste time when he should be plodding at the
gross and material day-book by telling the other
clerks about the fight at Something Spruit. And
there is a vague feeling that the wild life of fight-
ing, looting, commandeering, cattle-lifting, &c.,
may have made Private Smith' forgetful of the
Sacredness of Property, and unfit to be trusted
with the petty cash. So there is an inclination in
many quarters to give Smith a little cheque, and
a good character, and a hearty shake of his honest
brown hand when he comes back, and to turn him
loose,
■ * * * *
All Chief-Justice Madden’s effusive efforts
to attract notice in England by his loquacious and
ungrammatical messages, and so on, go for
nothing. Chamberlain had occasion to quote one
WORSE THAN THE PLAGUE.
REV. TWADDLE : “ Does it not seem a pity that the plague should come, to this
lovely country?”
MISS DARLINGHUKST : “ Yes, indeed! A plague is such a hard thing to get
rid of once it attacks you! ”
cablegram in Committee on the Commonwealth
Bill. He just quoted it as from “ the officer con-
cerned in the administration of the Govt, in Vic-
toria.” He did not even say it was from the
Lieut.-Governor. There is a smack of a snub in
that casual, distant remark, “ the officer concerned
in.” And “John” does try so hard to get noticed.
* * * *
N.S.W. attorneys mortally dread being
brought before the Full Court with Darley, C. J.,
on the Bench. They have scores of illustrations
to convince them that they will either be let off,
or “struck off” —the roll. There is no such
middle course now as suspension. A little matter
of £5 took away an attorney’s license t’other day
—and the long apprenticeship and stiff study of
five years’ went for a few inexplicable “quid.”
What a professional tragedy !
* * * *
J. P. Abbott greatly surprised most of his
hearers in one of his explanations during the expan-
sion controversy, by announcing that there were
more A.M.P. policy-holders in Victoria than in
N.S.W. He angrily told Jack Want that Sydney
could not run the Society, though it might think
it could ; and, as this is not the kind of remark
which pleases an audience of Jack Want’s way of
thinking, the ex-Speaker fell a little further in the
estimation of his hearers.
• * * *
There is significance and local fitness in the
proposal—to come before the approaching Angli-
can General Synod of Australia —to change the
name of Church of England as applied to doctrines
in Australia.. Not only is the name exotic, as the
Dean of Perth holds, but there is serious doubt as.
to whether the canons of the Church of England
are in force in Australia. But what name will
Australian Church of Englanders take ? The R.C..
has such a tight grip of Catholic that that abso-
lutely perfect word is shut off, and Rev. George
Walters has used up nearly all the remaining ser-
viceable titles.
* * * *
The archdeacons of the Anglican Church
in Victoria have their lives worried out of them,
by the troubles into which their young lay-readers
are constantly getting over girls. The Bishop,
was recently urged to refuse ordination to a youth-
ful candidate, on the ground that he had fallen
under the influence of a professional flirt, and!
jilted a young lady belonging to a highly-esteemed:
family. Dr. G.oe, however, dismissed the appeal,
probably on the ground that if he listened to such,
complaints his Church would soon be utterly
parsonless.
* * * *
Vic. P.M.G. has touched a rather knotty
point in deciding that no postal employe shall hold!
a billet in a city if his wife keeps a pub. within
the suburban radius. The lady must give up the
business, or the husband must take a shift to a
country office. In other words Watts ordains
that no. employe of the department (letter-carriers
in particular are aimed at) shall suffer the tempta-
tion of living in a pub. where he doesn’t have to.
pay easli for his drinks. The intention is good,
but what is to prevent postmen from, perchance,
getting “adopted ” by widows in- the liquor trade ?
* * * *
Attorney-General Gordon explained in
S.A. Leg. Council lately that his Govt, is legislat-
ing to remove Adelaide Hospital from “Board”
control mainly because Dr. Ramsay-Smith’s
onerous duties as coroner, &c., make it “undesir-
able ” that that “efficient officer ” should continue
his connection with the institution. Such a
diplomatic and humorous explanation could only
come from Gordon. The sole stumbling-block to.
a complete'settlement of the Hospital squabbles is
Ramsay-Smith’s refusal, backed by the Board, to.
resign as an hon. physician, and a majority of out-
side medicos refuse to work with him. Hence the
Holder Govt, has to legislate to remove the Board
and obtain the power to remove the pugnacious
Ramsay-Smith. And that is the Adelaide
Hospital difficulty in a nutshell.
We beat our hearts—they’re full of woe—
And shed of tears a vast amount,
And yet it’s just as well, you know,
To turn our grief to good account.
Our sorrow’s mainly what you’d call
That latest fad —a poster bawl!


The Acetylene Miners’ Lamps, introduced oy
the Acetylene Gas Co. of Australia, Ltd., have proved a
great success and are now largely used in the mines
throughout the colony. The company has lately been
rushed with orders for lighting up gold-mining dredges
owing to the many advantages offered by the light for
that purpose. It would be well for mine and dredge
owners to ascertain full information as to cost, etc., from
the Head Office of the Company, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
SUNLIGHT
OIL CAKE
FOR ALL STOCK AND POULTRY.
LEVER BROS. Ltd., Sydney
hats, HATS. hats.
Mountcastle & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes fitted with this
valuable invention.
Write for
Catalogue to
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Queen Stkeet, BRISBANE.
The Brisbane public has been taking all
manner of precautions of late by way of securing
itself against the attacks of bubonic bacillus. The
mainstay and sheet-anchor so far has been car-
bolic acid ; and no matter how foul the drain, how
smellsorne the gutter, or how odoriferous the haunt
of the dead rat might be, the average Brisbaneite
pouted his drop of carbolic acid on the fetid spot
and' slept the sleep of the just man fortified.
There was a huge demand, of course, for the
above-mentioned chemical. A few days ago the
Municipal Council determined to have samples
of the disinfectant analysed, and this is how most
of the specimens panned out:—■“ Nos. 1,2, 3 and 5
“Let not the sun go down upon your wrath.”
are not carbolic disinfectant, but consist prin-
cipally of tar oils and caustic sodas (practically no
value). No. 7 consists also of a mixture of heavy
tar oils and caustic soda. Only traces of carbolic
acid- present.” Only two specimens out of 10
supplied turned out to be genuine. A polite
letter of inquiry had to be sent to one firm asking
if it were a fact that the article supplied as car-
bolic acid was simply a line of condemned sheep-
dip bought-up and palmed-off on to the Council.
Australia, the paradise of the.adulterator ! It has
coine to a pretty pass when traders may “ doctor”
drugs with impunity. If carbolic acid may be
adulterated without fear of punishment, then why
not quinine, or morphia, or digitalis: God knows
—perhaps they all are.
* • * •
In a South Coast (N.S.W.) court, t’other
morning, when the temperature was below freezing
point, the P.M. was attracted by a cloud that
hung over a crowd in a corner. “Sergeant,” he
cried angrily, “ there is someone smoking in that
corner ; remove him at once ; I never heard of such
an indignity in a court of justice.” The sergeant
hurried to grapple with the offender, but could
not find him, and presently approached the Bencli
with, “They’re all smoking, yer Worship; their
breath is smoking wid the cowld.”
* * * *
Lately at Horsham (Vic.) a maintenance-
case’became strangely tangled up over the usual
problem of the man who disappeared in Wes-
tralia. It was a plain maintenance-case when
•it started; the lady said that her second
husband, a school-teacher, whom
she married after the death of
her first husband in Westralia,
had left her without the
necessary home and victuals,
and asked for support. He
denied being her husband,
and produced a letter from
the Registrar - Gpneral of
W.A. stating that her first
husband was still alive. The
lady -aid that she had pos-
sessed a certificate of her first
husband’s death which the
second husband had destroyed
before leaving her. The second
husband said there had been such
a document, but that plaintiff had
admitted it to be a forgery. She
denied admitting anything of the
kind. Then they sat down and left
the court to decide, and the court
tackled the case like a Solomon. It re-
solved that the lady must be supported
by somebody, and the alleged first hus-
band being remote and doubtful the im-
mediate responsibility rested either with
the .public or the alleged second hus-
band. And it decided that the second
husband, being at least partially mar-
ried to her, whereas the public wasn’t
married to her at all, might as well
take up the contract. Verdict accord-
ingly.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners
state that for the past year an average of
10,000 persons a month were caught travel-
ling without tickets on Sydney and subur-
ban railways—120,000 a year! And yet mis-
sioners go to India. There is room in Sydney for
a Pay-the-railway religion.
* * * *
The N.S. Wales M.L.A. who supported
John Haynes’ Capital Punishment Abolition Bill
by saying that but for the introduction of private
executions capital punishment would have been
abolished long ago was thoroughly correct. Public
hangings had come to be a blood-debauch. First,
they were larrikin field-days, but gradually they
became a stage around which all that was evil in
the community assembled. Private executions
became the law in Sydney in 1855. And tlv
privacy, such as it was, served as a curtain, and
hanging got a new lease of life. But in those days
the curtain was a very thin one. The sheriff
issued tickets with a free hand, and as many as
400 slipped into the gaol-yard to witness a
butchery. Even at present, a couple of dozen
generally secure passes to witness the hideous
entertainment.
* * * *
A N.S.W. school-teacher, who is leaving
the Service shortly, and is, therefore, quite reck-
less of dismissal or other dreadful consequences,
took independent action recently with reference
to two of the blackmailing imposts made by the
authorities of the Department on the teaching-
staff. He flatly refused to pay his contribution
to the expenses of cleaning the schools, and he
also flatly refused to pay anything towards the
departmental war-levy. His head-master threat-
ened to report him, and did so, with the result
that he was asked to wait upon the Inspector.
Latter, without attempting to argue the rights or
wrongs of the questions, said : “It will far
better for you to pay and hold your tongue. ” Shut
up and pay up !
• * * *
The propriety or otherwise of appointing
single females to the charge of bush schools may
be discussed from many points of view, but making
the Miss Kerz murder one of these is more than
absurd. It might as well be argued that because
the Mawbey children were murdered children
should not be allowed to live in the bush.
* • * *
Historic Parramatta Park lost one of its
big English oaks by a land-slip
during the recent rain. The tree
was over 50 years old, and stood
in the main avenue, near to the
one which caused the death of
Lady Mary Fitzroy, in 1847.
Apropos, although this was one
of the first laid-out reserves of
N.S.W., it receives much less
attention from the Govt, than it
deserves. By the way, who
ordered the ringbarking of one of
the big Moreton Bay fig-trees at
the Boomerang-st. entrance to Phillip Park,
Sydney ? Or is the act a mere piece of unofficial
vandalism ?
• • * *
The urgent necessity for a drastic amend-
ment of the Landlord and Tenant Act was shown
by a recent case at N. Melb. Court, when a woman
sued her landlord for the return of her sewing-
machine. Her husband had been unemployed for
seven weeks, and, to keep the poor home together,
she had got the machine on time-payment. Nine
pounds of the £12 10s. due on the article had
been paid when the landlord, for 45s. worth of rent,
stepped in and seized the machine. Presumably
it didn’t come under the tools-of-trade exemption
clause because it didn’t belong to the husband ;
anyhow, the Bench admitted the legality of the
seizure, but adjourned the matter for a month to
allow of a settlement. The outrageousness of a
law that allows the “man for the rent” to seize
and sell another person’s property for a debt
owing by a third party never seems to have struck
law-makers.
* * * *
“ Confi.” : At a certain Sydney “ reli-
gious ” printing establishment the Factories Act
inspector, the other day, found employed three
boys—one 12 years of age, and the others 13; but
these, the “overseer” explained, were merely
messenger-boys—whereas, in reality, they are at
“case,” setting-up. The instance is far from being
a solitary one, and employers who do these things
are amongst those who are just now howling
loudest against the proposed Arbitration Bill !
No wonder!
• • * a
District Court Judge Heydon treated
Tamworth to a somewhat novel judicial procedure
the other day. After hearing evidence in a disputed
promissory-note case, he informed counsel, Mr.
Walter Edmunds and Mr. A. Thomson, that he
would hear their addresses in
Chambers in Sydney the
following week and would
forward his decision to
the Registrar in
Tam worth.
VELLY NT”-A LITTLE BIT “OFF-
COLOR”
more of the ill-luck which attaches to the
initial “ T.” The Union S.S. Cos. of Maoriland
has lost fully half-a-dozen vessels carrying the
fated letter in the van, and after the loss of the
old Taupo it tempted Providence by giving the
same unlucky name to anew craft. The new
Taupo has just gone smash at Greymouth, and
vessels with the gallows-shaped initial are again
at a discount.
* * * *
Quong Tart says the Chinese missionaries
aren’t to blame, and his yarn gets big black cross-
heads in the daily papers. Well, perhaps they
aren’t; but even if they were you could hardly
expect the diplomatic Quong, whose big tea-shop
is so often chock-full of the missionary gang, to
say so, or even think so.
Ed. Bulletin, — May I say a word for
N.S.W. Charities Department ? Your
cartoon of July 28, named “Until
Charity do Them Part,” correctly
states the case in so far that
the separation of “Darby
and Joan” into different
asylums for the destitute
when the old people
have fallen on evil
days is the leaal
method of dealing
with such cases.
Still, the prac-
tice is the oppo-
site. Over 40
cottages have
been erected
in connec-
tion with
the Govt.
Institu-
tions at
Parramat-
ta, and
your “Wo-
man’s Col-
umn ” quite
recently paid
a high tribute
to their man-
agement. All
these cottages are
occupied, and appli-
cants for one are not
even separated until a vacancy occurs. Although
Parliament has never passed a law which would
enable the Chief Secretary’s Office to deal in a
more humane manner than by sending husband
and wife into different asylums, the Minister has
so far anticipated the Old Age Pensions Act as to
allow the old people a small weekly grant until
such time as a cottage is available. At the pre-
sent moment there is not a single case in Newing-
ton Asylum which could be treated in a cottage if
one were vacant. —Kobeko.
* * * *
At Townsville (Q.) the other day a man
who had stolen an old towel and shirt got six
months gaol, while a very objectionable obscene-
language case was awarded £1 fine, or 48 hours.
Some day, when this country is a little more
civilised, it will understand that the public use of
foul language is worth more than 144 shirts, and
then it will give the languager the 12 months he
so richly deserves. As matters are now no Aus-
tralian city is fit for any decent woman or any
child or any clean-minded person of either sex to
walk in, by reason of the steady stream of
adjectives. And our cities will remain in that
state until the relative importance of keeping
clean the moral atmosphere, as compared
with the necessity for rescuing from the spoiler
a dilapidated old shirt is better understood by
this country’s perfunctory magistracy.
* * * *
N.S.W. Factories Act badly needs lever-
ing up in one particular. “ No female shall be
employed in a factory more than 48 hours in
any one week,” says the Act. But if she
works 50 hours how is it to be proved ? The
employe must prosecute—which is absurd.
The M.L. Act says : “No female shall be
employed in a factory or workshop be-
tween 6 p.m. and a quarter to eight in
the morning.” The inspector enters
in the prohibited hours, and then he
can prosecute.
In Melb. Age recently :
"Vy ANTED, some kind person to adopt baby
two months hence.
“Selling to arrive” is an ordinary com-
mercial transaction—but then bills of lading
have to specify particulars.
Two promising juveniles of 14 came before
Elstemwick (Melb.) Court the other day for
inciting another infant of 11 to commit crime.
The syndicate sprang into existence when one
lucky day its senior member found the 11-year-old
smoking a cigarette. Primed with all he had
learnt at Sunday-school, he discoursed severely on
the evils of smoking, and announced that it was
his duty to inform the youngster’s parents. The
trembling devotee of nicotine wept copiously, and
after violent promises of reformation on his part,
the other offered to overlook the awful crime on
payment of Is. The only place where this could
be obtained was the till of his father’s shop, so the
knee-high victim of tobacco promptly stole the
necessary amount. In paying it over, he was
easily bluffed into admitting how he had got it,
and the horrified recipient immediately demanded
2s. 6d. more as the price of his silence regarding
the theft. He then took in a partner, to whom he
confided that he had “struck a gold mine,” and
the bright pair proceeded to exploit the discovery.
They had succeeded to the extent of £l3 when
something went wrong with their plans, and the
worried cigarette-smoker, who was on the verge
of suicide, confessed all. A prosecution was
started, and the two promising youngsters were
bound over for good behaviour on their parents
refunding the blackmailed money.
* * * m
An enterprising infant of 12, no less, at
Kyneton, (Vic), recently wrote out, signed in his
employer’s name, and cashed a cheque for 30s.
He promptly spent the proceeds in oranges, lollies
and a watch. Apparently this is the latest de-
velopment of the universal youthful desire to go
bushranging. But what kind of civilisation is it
which allows a child of 12 to have an employer ?
* * * *
The filth of municipalism. A man shot
his wife, in Brunswick (Vic.), and immediately
afterwards shot himself. Yet the coagulated
blood was still lying in rivulets along the right-of-
way adjoining the bouse where the tragedy had
occurred till quite 36 hours later !!
*•* * *
“ Gr.B.” : The weather has a lot to do with
magisterial decisions. At Melb. Licensing Court
t’other day, when a she-publican who had been
convicted of taking household articles from bare-
footed kiddies in exchange for tied-house tangle-
foot, wanted a renewal of license, the police put
in the conviction against her. But just then the
sun shone out bravely and glorified the visage of
the Bench, which granted the license, with an
admonition to sin no more. Half-an-hour after-
wards a cold snap came along with rain, and
another woman who had been fined (first time) for
Sunday trading, got shunted as unfit to hold a
license. All a matter of weather !
THE GREEN-EYED MONSTER.
THE INJURED HUSBAND (a journalist): “This
co-respondence must now cease! ”
At a recent Melt), public prayer-meeting
one Barley said be hoped the fate of the martyred
missionaries in China wouldn’t, deter others from
embarking upon missionary enterprise. Barley
didn’t look much as though he, personally, would
care to take any chances, but he was very earnest
in his prayers that others would put themselves m
the way of being flayed alive or slowly minced to
death. But, after all, if a fool-man, urged by a
wise man, does a thing which is vicariously good
in the wise man’s eyes, doesn't the merit lie with
the wise man ? And all the well-meaning idiots
who go to evangelise the Chows and to get inci-
dentally slaughtered, are largely impelled by the
exhortations of the Barley kind of person that
stays and prays and earns half the Crown while
carefully steering clear of the Cross.
* * * *
On a motor-car. A Sydney lady relates
her sensations to The Bulletin :
The motor is harmless to look at, but it seems to be
restless when it has to stand still, and makes a low moan-
ing all the time as if it felt bad inside. A large crowd
gathered round it as we got in ; they were all telling one
another to he careful and not go too near in case it ex-
ploded. The driver told us that there were five brakes,
and that no accident could possibly occur unless 25 com-
plications arose, and in addition somebody put a match
to something ; nevertheless, at first, we were too busy
placing our trust in Providence to enjoy the novelty. The
machinery of the motor is coiled up serpent-like beneath
the seats, so that in addition to putting our trust above
we had to place it below as well. \No matter how fast
the vehicle goes the motion never seems much to those
inside. From the street it appears to skim along, out-
distancing ’busses and electric-trams ; even the perspir-
ing bicyclist with his head on a level with the front wheel
is left behind by that little horseless victoria. As we
moved along we seemed to have advanced a century
ahead of the rest of the street ; the horses had quite ari
antediluvian look, and the ’busses looked like Noah’s
Arks ; the faces of riders and pedestrians flashed back on
us admiringly till we felt as if we had invented the thing
ourselves. The motor is an animal with many voices.
Till you get on him he wails and jumps ; once started he
moves contentedly enough, only making a low continual
grrr-grrr, which to the people outside has somewhat a
cricket-like sound. When you want to move admiring
people out of the track, you squeeze a squirt, and a hor-
rible noise, something between a midnight cat and a fog-
horn, causes to fall under a tram the small boy who has
just remarked “ ’Ere’s a kerridge bolted from its ’orses.”
The most original thing about the motor consists in the
remarks it makes to itself when you compel it to remain
still a minute or two. Its curses are low but deep. I
don’t know exactly how to work the cursing apparatus
yet, but I am going to learn.
* * » *
Breelong-black news-heading in Sydney
D.T.:—
ON THE DEATH TRAIL.
Deadwood Dick ! Whoop !!
m * * *
N.S.W. Justice A. H. Simpson, asked
last week to attach a defendant against whom a
judgment for £193 10s., with costs, and 4 per
cent, interest, had been gained in 1895, directed a
writ to issue but not be enforced so long as de-
fendant paid £1 ss. a month. Without counting
costs or interest, it will take plaintiff years to
collect the verdict given five years ago.
• m * m
In a Tasmanian .police court t’other day a
solicitor contended that a lawyer cross-examining
a witness had a right to peruse any notes the wit-
ness might be refreshing his memory from, and
that, unless the lawyer had had an opportunity of
questioning witness upon the notes, they could
not be put in as evidence. Although the presid-
ing magistrate agreed, a decision by a higher
authority might be worth hearing.
* * m *
Brief and significant advt. in a Hobart
paper:
' TjiOUND, some years ago, a sum of money. M. W.
. A Oilleran, St. Mary’s
A Mrs. Somebody or other remembered that years
ago she once lost a purse with 24 so vs., so she went
and saw Father Gilleran, who handed to her her
long-lost purse and contents. How his reverence
came by it is easy to guess.


NECKWEAR
IN
Charming Variety
AND
j
Profusion
r<
O
&
►
Lace
Scarves, and
Kibbon Velvets.
Collarettes, with
Square Yoke, also Square
Back-pointed Fronts, Silk
Ficbus, Cravats, Fancy Bows and
Chiffons, Silk & Black Velvet Collar
Bands, Plain Black Collar Bands, Vests.
Ostrich Feather Bows in Greys, Whites,
White and Black.
W. IM. WILLIS,
Land and Financial Agent,
25 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Dear B.— ln issue of 28/7/ 00 a paragraph
states : “ Be she a Nance O’Neil, a Mrs. Brough, a
Brown Potter, or a divine Sarah, there is always
a little something left for her to gain (in figure)
from the P.D. corset: God bless it.” Have been
admiring the photoed forms of the Brough Co.
ladies, and the “ Rose of Persia ” divinities. If
those professional charmers owe their grace of
outline to the P.D., I also say “God bless it.”—
A.R.T.*
Simplest—Most Durable—Best.
IICHT^S''
fRUNNING
m
nm
n
mn
) MACHINES
Write for our illustrated
PRICE LIST (Free).
GENUINE NEEDLES,
parts and fittings
for every make of
machine.
MADAME WEIGfeL’JS
Paper Pattern*.
Catalogues Id.,
by Post 2d.
Journals 3d, Post4d
nm
d.W. JOHNSTON & CO.,
746 GEORGE STREET (Haymarket), SYDNEY
Swanston St., Melb. Queen St., Brisbane.
GLOBS TEAS have N °
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN’S LETTER,
My Myee.— S ’’ d ”’ r ' Ausu “ 7 ’ 190 °-
On Sunday nights Sydney goes rushing, rushing
to near the Latest Lecturer. But stay ! Is he
quite that ? Or is it only because a Sunday lecture
•Judged by the length of a Sunday sermon,
and if the lecture is longer it seems twice as lomr
as it is. °
In a long dancing-hall we seat ourselves for the
psychic night. The walls are draped with shriek-
mg gas-blue cretonne. The gas is hung with
red and yellow paper-balls. And green and
orange fight their battles over again, all along the
walls and ceiling and draped platform. If the
psychic can feel at home here, no further evidence
is required to prove that psychic isn’t physical.
JJormy plain, green, physical, staring eye shud-
ders like anything, and feels a miserable little
stranger in a strange place. But everyone comes in
placidly. Most of the women are dressed in black.
Ihe audience is mixed—musicians and artists,
aggressive freethinkers with dirty nails, philoso-
phers in tan boots, lawyers, johnnies, men, boys,
and a great host of women, worn women with three
volumes in their faces looking for the fourth, the
unwritten and unwritable one. They drop some-
thing silver into a plate as thev enter. The lec-
turer was brought out all the way from ’Murka,
and things have to be kept up.
‘ ‘ Can you see him ? ” “ Well, not till he comes
out, I reply. Then lam told he has been on
the platform all the time. It is like that story
about the little man who went into the witness-
box. “Please, stand up, Mr. Dash,” said the
Judge. “I am standing up,” squeaked the little
man.
And now the evening commences. The lecturer
sings, all by himself, a little hymn. Then he
speaks. After he has been talking three minutes,
a vivid picture flashes across the mind—Leslie
Victor, in “The Liars.” The lecturer is Fweddv,
to the finger-tip 3. The beard makes no difference;
neither does the fact that he never “ subsides.”
This is Fweddy right enough. Or it is Leslie
Victor dressed up in a red beard and some Sunday
night ethics? The lisp, the movement of the
hands, the curving of the little body, and the
peculiar jumping emphasis of the little voice rising
higher and higher, going along a level, then
higher, then another level, then still higher yet—
well, there I gave up. I utterly yielded myself to
the belief that this was just our Fweddy, having
his say at last. To the end of the lecture 1 ex-
pected to see Emma Temple bustle out and cry,
“ Fweddy, subside ! ”
What did he talk about, this strange little man,
who gets such big crowds, and sets them all raving
about him ? I remember one thing. He said we
were to take a moment for silent aspiration.
While we silently “aspired ” he seated himself at
the organ and played the “Dead March.” It
seemed like casting a damper over one’s aspir-
ations—particularly as the organ was only a
harmonium and the player couldn’t play.
Also, he hoisted Marie Corelli to the skies. He
considered the “ Sorrows of Satan ” about the
finest book written. He urged good parents to
take morals from Marie, via the “ Mighty Atom.”
He scattered broadcast all the crumbs swept up
from the tables of the unorthodox who still can’t
do without a little holy bread. In short, he
accounted to the uttermost for the wave of
enthusiasm rocking Sydney till it falls at his tiny
feet, and lies there, and raves about him as only
the good can rave.
Coming out two women passed mo. “I ’ave
such a headache,” said one. “Some people ’ave
got an imagination ” replied the other.
It was “ Mental Science.” But it didn’t sound
nearly as fine, or as sweet, or as healing, as “Boor
thing, so sorry for you.”
It reminded me of Mark Twain on “Mrs. Eddy
and the Book of Christian Science.” Mark was a
little bitter, perhaps, on account of the death of his
only daughter, the lovely Miss Clemens who was
so much admired when in Sydney with her father.
She was treated in London by mental healing;
but she died. Then Mark wrote one of his flash-
ing things.
He described how he fell over a precipice and
got smashed to pieces and somebody brought a
mental healeress along. He was broken in pieces.
She • said there was no such thing as a break. He
described his pains. She said there was no such
thing as a pain. He made her look at his wounds.
She said there was no such thing as a wound.
Mark said something funny. “She nearly
smiled,” he adds, sadly, “but there is no such
thing as a smile;”
Plenty of them at Donald MacDonald’s lectures
—smiles, laughs, roars, and reckless burstings of
kid gloves. That opening success quickly blazed
up to a red-hot boom. Night after night the Cen-
tenary held bigger and bigger houses, until a few
extra nights were thrown in, just to give everyone
a chance to hear this rare good thing in the way
of an evening’s entertainment. The fetching sim-
plicity of Donald’s style, his intimate chatter
about Ladysmith (where they had every disease
under the sun—except D.T.’s), his well-turned
anecdotes, tossed off like omelettes with the light-
est hand, and last, but not least, his quiet and
companionable smiles took Sydney by storm.
Jolly Edwin Geaeh, in a straw hat, took the other
thing, in large round numbers, at the box-office.
At a girls’ tea, the war-man made an extra
score. It was rather pretty to see dozens of girls
worshipping, open-eyed and a little dumb. They
were brought up in bunches; at every introduc-
tion the same thing happened. “ What name did
you say ?” said the wanderer. When he caught
the name he kept it, and called every one of the
dozens by her right handle all that tea-party.
To win a woman’s interest call her by the right
name straight off. She’ll look at you twice, and
then—well, then the rest is with you.
But I doubt if MacDonald has had one bigger
admirer than a well-known thespian—Rignold. to
wit. Whether it was the war-horse stirring in
good old Henry Veo’s blood, or just sheer inciden-
tal interest, Rignold was to be seen there, lecture
after lecture, as fine a listener as a warrior, as good
an audience as a monarch. Mrs. Rignold was
with him at the profesh matinee. She wore a big
black hat and cloak, and George looked young
beside her. The theatres rolled up heavily to that
matinee. Kenningham’s round, Tommy-like face
drank in draughts of his old regiments ; Mabelle
Darley sat next him in a red hat ; Mr. and Mrs.
Bland kept those domestic traditions as green as
ever—the Blands, like the Broughs, go everywhere
together.
That reminds me that Bland was missing from
Mrs. Bland’s “At Home,” at Needs’rooms, last
Friday—probably because Mrs. Bland is a host in
herself. She received her crush in a black lace
and jet frock over dark rose, with a tucked pink
vest, and looked younger and prettier and curlier
than ever. Miss Coppin helped the hostess to
make things hum, especially with the many
children wandering about at their own sweet will.
In the hush after Madame Caron’s dramatic
vocalising, a little voice broke the silence:
“Mother, where are the bedrooms?”
I daresay the same thought struck others, who
only know Needs’ rooms as the best dancing
floors in Sydney. A suite of rooms is hidden
away upstairs, in the front, and there the Holts
domesticate while in Sydney. Miss Coppin,
daughter of the Hon. George, acts as housekeeper
and companion, goes everywhere with Mrs. Holt,
and quite takes the place of a daughter. Another
Coppin sister, Daisy, is dancing at the Tiv.
Hand-painted programmes set out the music.
Mrs. Hugh Ward made a great hit with her lovely
sympathetic mezzo; Hugh Ward, a thin, clean-
shaved, actor-faced ’Murkan, recited; Madame
Leon Caron warbled away with heaps of execu-
tion : Burris Walker sang love songs so forcibly
that three different girls believed—or alleged—he
was looking at them. Tea, and orchestra, and lots
of looking-glass helped on a most delightful after-
noon. In the rooms I noticed Mrs. J. C. Wil-
liamson in grey, with a big hat and feather boa ;
Miss Winnie Austen, petite and pretty in black
and a flowered toque; Miss Harrie Ireland with a
white toque topping her glorious auburn hair ;
Mrs. Henderson, who used to be Maggie Knight,
in pearl gi-ey; Mrs. Mackenzie, Miss Ethel
Stephens, and a forcible peppering of black coats.
Miss Ada Hatchwell’s pupils’ evening came off
at the Y.M.C.A. last Wednesday. A platform
decorated with shaded lamps and ferns made an
appropriate drawing-room setting to the very
drawing-room recitings. Miss HatchweU’s alone
rose to the height of a platform.
The slim, dark-haired elocutioness wore a frock
of sky-blue silk, with violets on the corsage, and
at the end of her sash. She recited “ Lady Maud’s
Oath ” and “ I don’t care ” in a sweet penetrating
voice, but I failed to see the points of the Oath
recital; and, listening to the whole programme,
the old woe about the tediousness of the selections
people make when about to elocute at you, swept
over me once more. Why, for instance, should a
pretty graceful girl like Miss Emmie Carey battle
with “Henry VIII. ?” Why should any pretty girl
in white want to fight Shakespeare ? As he said,
himself thinking perhaps of the Y.M.C.A.
Hall when he said it—“ And Death once
Dead there’s no more dying then.” Which
might mean—might it not —being interpreted,
“ They can’t murder me now.” Miss Carey ex-
hibited a rare promising gift, if turned in a
different direction, and used to imitate people, not
actors. A dear little white-legs, Miss Helen
Mosel.y, recited a “ vewy sowwy ” little tragedy.
Miss Kingsborough, Miss Stella Cohen and Miss
Franckel showed how carefully Miss Hatch well
had moulded them after her own image. Marie
Narelle, in black shoulder-straps, was encored for
her two billings. Norman Alston’s fine taste
gleamed out through two artistic Jensen songs,
and the programme ended with a verse from
“The Princess”—picked because the gathering
was all girls ? It ran weirdly—“ She, ending,
waved her hands; thereat the crowd mutterin'/,
dissolved.” / did not think it was as bad as that.
A Melbourne lady gave a dinner for Donald
Macdonald last week, and the party ended up at
the “ Absent-Minded-Beggar.” The only man in
the house who knew the genuine article when he
saw it leaned out of the box with absorbed eyes,
and drank in greedily the Boery play. When the
Generals came on it was better than the play to
see how Bobs and Baden-Powell and Kitchener
and even Kruger looked up nervously at the Lady-
smith man above them, casting a supplicating
expression at him as if to say, “If there’s any-
thing wrong with us don’t let on.”
The “Pretoria” ball came off last Thursday.
I am glad to report that it was quite the success of
the year, as far as crowd—which means funds for
the Boys’ Brigade—goes. Five hundred people
revolved about the Paddington Town Hall, and if
occasional peculiarities showed up, such as young
men smoking on the supper-landing, men in boots
and short coats, and other hopeless characteristics,
'nobody minded. The committee was , poudre.
Pretty Mrs. Playfair was beautifully frocked in
mauve glace silk, a polonaise over chiffon flounces,
and diamonds in her whitened hair. Mrs. Dean,
the hard-working sec., was in ivory satin. Miss
Cissie Harris wore a black and silver frock that
could not be overlooked.
I want to draw your attention to a fancy fair
coming off in aid of the Indian Famine Fund. The
fair opens at Sydney School of Arts, September
15, and lasts for three or four days, and the
energies of many well-known matrons and young
girls are being devoted to working up an attrac-
tive as well as charitable, entertainment.
In concerts coming off shortly there is Miss
Gertrude Palmer's, Y.M.C.A., August Kith, with
a good programme offering—George Rignold, Mis 3
Jessie King, Messrs. Staell, Vollmar, Dr. Ennis,
Miss Amy Simpson, Miss Alice Bryant, and
others. By the way, I was sorry to miss the con-
cert given by Miss Pearl M‘Crossin and Miss
Fannie Walker last Thursday, but have heard
much about the crowded house and the excellent
impression made by Miss M‘Crossin’s soulful
voice and Miss Walker’s contralto tones.
It is sad to relate that Miss Walker’s father—
Mr. T. B. Walker, of the Telephone Department
—passed away a few days after his daughter’s
successful debUt. Mr. Walker’s friends say that
the telephone killed him ; and, indeed, it isn’t
hard to believe that. His genial, popular per-
sonality will be missed among many friends in
Sydney.
I am told that the foolish scare caused by the
Gilgandra blacks far exceeds anything of the old
bushranging days. Many isolated families about
Coonabarabran (only GO miles from the scene of
the murders) have shifted into the town, and fire-
arms of all sorts are at a premium. Every
stranger is suspected, and travelling after dark is
out of the question.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“ When the Committee of the Women’s
Hospital, (whose self-imposed duty it is to smooth
the way for the entrance into this wicked world
of many little unwelcome strangers,) met the other
day, there appeared before them a demure-looking
damsel whose answers were very satisfactory.
She gratuitously informed them that ‘ ’e wasn’t a
bad sort.’ The Committee visibly brightened.
‘Then there is some prospect of your getting
married,’ said the President briskly. ‘No-o-o,’
she drawled biting at the finger of her shabby
glove. ‘But, my girl, do take your fingers out of
your mouth and listen to me—is there no prospect
of his marrying you ?’ ‘No-ool’ ‘I don't want
to reproach you, but you must see that for the
child’s sake ’ ‘ Yes, but, —well ’e can’t marry
me.’ ‘ But why, my girl, why ? ’ ‘ Well, you see,’
defiantly, ‘’e can’t. He’s just married another
young girl in the same way! ’
“ And this, which is also a true bill, also comes
via the Women’s Hospital. She had no children
of her own and at last decided to fill the vacant
place with an adopted child. Miserable mothers
came by tens all anxious to dispose of their un-
welcome encumbrances. But they were all
uninviting,—poverty-stricken, frowsy, bedraggled
fast. She turned away from the last applicant,
who wore a fashionable hat much on one side with
three weather-beaten ostrich plumes by way of
decoration. ‘ It’s no good,’ she sighed, ‘ I don’t
want anything else, but one stipulation I must
make. The child must be of gentle birth.’ The
latest applicant turned at once and held out her
baby. ‘lf that’s all you want,’ said she promptly,
‘ this is just the boy for you. I had a very easy
confinement.’ And even now she doesn’t under-
stand why the lady didn’t take him.
“Friday, Aug. 3, saw the Lieut.-Governor’s first
grandson baptised, at the Anglican Cathedral, by
Bishop Goe, and labelled ‘Pat John,’etc. Plain
names are the thing nowadays. Hence Osborne
baby took after ‘Uncle Pat,’ instead of honoring
equally near and dear kindred yclept ‘Guy,’
‘ Clement,’ etc. Sponsors and proxies signing
the baptismal register as ‘Beatrice,’ ‘Ruby,’ ‘Sel-
wyn, ’ and so on, would have felt twice as tip-top
had they been able to write themselves down
‘ Peg,’ ‘Biddy’ and ‘Mike’respectively. Baby’s
grandparents, by the way, were unable to witness
the interview between little Pat and the bishop,
because of poor, dear Saxe-Coburg and Gotha.
“ At Scherek’sBth concert (Aug. 4) young Zel-
man’s fiddle items caught on splendidly, especially
with the young ladies. This cheery little violinist
is a downright petticoat pet, and whenever he’s
billed to perform lots of nice girls put up prayers
for his success. In Saturday’s audience, a tall,
fair-haired girl looked well in simply-made bright-
blue gown. Blue, youngest and sweetest qf colors,
goes well with white fur, and in consequence is
prevalent just now. Rough uncut lumps of tur-
quoise are popular with trinket wearers, and girly
coral necklaces will soon be to the fore again. For
brush-backs and toilette fal-lals, mother-o’-pearl
and tortoise-shell threaten the supremacy of silver.
According to present notions the most valuable
tortoise-shell is pale yellow without marks, which
points to good business ahead in gum, gelatine and
celluloid imitations.
“ Brides apparently revel in ‘Fedora.’ In that
piece, a bride and bridegroom are separated by
death after a fortnight’s bliss. I suppose less ill-
starred, newly-wed spectators enjoy their own
good fortune by contrast. Some people, you know,
enhance their enjoyment of warmth and light by
picturing homeless wayfarers dying on dark door-
steps. Mrs. Cox, now staying at Menzies’, has
.seen the play twice in a week, in all white as
befits her bridal condition. Nance O’Neil, as
Fedora, carries about a good deal of handsome,
heavy, floppy drapery. What with Fedora’s own
bigness and her piled-up haberdashery, the slim
Kingston looks sort of submerged at embrace
moments.
“Nance O’Neil is Queen of the Perch ; her
amateurish she-colleagues are so dowdily-dressed
as to look drab Jenny-Wrens before her. In
‘Fedora,’ Thistle Anderson and Edith Berry as
Parisiennes of high degree mope at a Countess’
reception like bashful governesses, conning photo,
albums in the intervals of playing accompani-
ments. Miss Berry’s limp yellow frock is
trimmed with violets, modestly hanging their
heads, like their wearer. Thistle Anderson, a big
blonde, buxom girl, looks a shade brighter than
her companion, and enlivens a rather pathetic
black frock by splashes of red. Each of these
neophytes, blonde and brunette respectively, is
blessed with a pair of sparkling eyes, but neither
turns her ‘points’ to any stage account what-
ever.
“The Baroness (Thistle Anderson’s) shy histri-
onic demeanor comes as a surprise to acquaintances
who, in real life, don’t find her timid. Her late
father, many years M.P. for Glasgow (Scotland)
subsequently became Master of Melbourne Mint
through Mr. Gladstone’s good offices. Before lie
came to Australia, the elderly verse-writing
politician married a 17-year-old Scotch beauty,
then Miss I‘ollie Clavering, now an ample but)
attractive lady, in appearance not much older than
her own daughter. The latter, while her father
lived, was a pupil in a convent. But the death of
the white-bearded theorist changed matters. His
widow was soon engaged to be married, and his
daughter grabbed the desire of her heart and
entered the Ballet.
“ Another Spring-chicken permitted to ‘pick a
bit ’ in the O'Neil coop is Alice Crawford, the
Bendigo elocutionist—a sparklingly handsome
girl with black hair, white skin and black-grey
eyes. In ‘Fedora’ she gets into a becoming
liussian-peasant dress just to say six words. But
her star rises high at charity matinees, &c„ when
she sells programmes ad lib. and lets people see
what a decorative item she really is.
“ St. Kilda is peculiar in being more susceptible
to theatrical influences than any other place in
Australia. St. Kilda is the suburb from which
J. C. Williamson recruits all his racy girls.
Chorus girls, high-kickers, and small-part damsels
literally swarm m the Melb. Ghetto, and no doubt
this is why one meets so many Nance O’Neils on
St. Kilda sands. Nance O’Neil is the favorite
glass of fashion and model of form to the stage-
stricken just now, and Nance O’Neil hats and
hair, the Nance O’Neil expression, and even a
conspicuous Nance O’Neil redundancy are aped
by many of the daughters of the Children of
Israel and numerous Christian misses who long to
loom. And these all prance on the Esplanade,
like so many living-picture posters to the greater
glory and advt. of Nance.
“Lady Brassey on her way ’Ome went from
Albany to Africa in the Sunbeam like a dutiful
wife. At Capetown she thankfully adjourned
into a big passenger boat where her fellow
travellers at once proceeded to kow-tow her nearly
to death. She absorbed herself in cementing a
childish board-ship friendship between daughter
Helen and ‘a little boy from Manly,’ whose un-
obtrusive parents, wouldn’t have ventured within
coo-ee of such greatness, unless specially invited.
“Commander Tickell, off to China with our
naval contingent, is not impressive to look at.
Short, with a scrubby red beard, lie’s a quiet
little family-man. His eldest boy, a ginger-
headed urchin, sturdy and plucky as a bull-pup,
was mad to give JDad a hand with the China
campaign. Condemned to stay at homo with his
mother and small sisters, he now lives only for lus
approaching promotion from knickers to pants.
“ Poor Mayoress M'Eacharn, has not been en-
joying a great time in England, it seems. Her
facial paralysis was all the worse for the voyage,
and soon after her arrival the weary victim of
official duties retired to a sanatorium, or whatever
they call it, for the ‘Rest’ cure (originated by
the world-famous specialist, Weir-Mftchell). All
that one has to do in these peaceful retreats is—
Nothing. Even the face massage is made as little
of a treatment as possible. Thinking is strictly
prohibited, and if the patient feels inclined to
read a book, she just shuts her eyes whilst a per-
fect treasure of an attendant speaks the lines in a
nerve-soothing voice. The cure scheme aims at
giving one the maximum of contentment with the
minimum of and it often works won-
ders.
“ ‘ What are the flags on Government House and
the Town Hall flying half-mast for ? ’ was asked in
Melbourne on Friday. ‘ Hush !’ it was replied
between sobs, ‘don’t you know that Alf. Josephs,
the bookmaker, is dead ? ’
“ Meanness and greasy mock patriotism are
distinctive of Melbourne City Corporation. When
the contingents went away to the war, the city
fathers could ‘booze’—there is no other word—
and hoist flags in honor of the event, but there
was no personal send-off to the poor adventurers
going out to risk life and limb. Now the sick and
wounded are returning from their enterprise, the
city authorities quite ignore their presence, and
don’t even congratulate them on their return.
Everybody snubs the returned soldiers, even their
own department had to be wakened up by the press
before noticing their arrival. And now the last
lot of returns, sick and weak and suffering, had to
walk a mile-and-a-half to draw an advance of a
pound or two from the War Dept., which was too
lazy to send an official down to the ship with the
miserable advance.
“Mr. Ernest M‘Caughan, just bereft of his two
months’ bride, was for long enough an extremely-
popular Melb. bachelor. He fell in love at first
sight with his late wife, then Miss Collins, at a
Tas. society function some years ago, but the
pretty maiden was in no haste to marry.
y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULL.


Hotel
Australia
Rates from 12/6 per Day'
» £3 10s. per week
inclusive of all meals and attendance.
Dr. Gresswell, President of Victorian
Board of Health : “There is no
danger in coming to Sydney at
the present time. Of course, it
depends a great deal where the
visitors go. To come to a place
like The Australia Hotel is to run
no risk at all.”
H. EDWIN MOORE. Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Largest and Best Company in the World.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The Reports of the State Insurance Departments show that the Mutual Life of New York
had, on December 31, 1899,
Larger Total Assets
A Greater Gain in Assets during the Year
A Larger Total Income and
Larger Amount paid to Policyholders
than any other Company.
ASSETS, at end of 1899, £61,980,398.
include Insurance, Investment, and Trusteeship, as required. Write for particulars, giving
name, address and date of birth, to “ The Manager,” at any of the undermentioned Branch Offices.
AUSTRALASIAN DEPARTMENT: Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
Branch Offices :
SYDNEY —Company's Building, Martin Place.
MELBOURNE—2B9 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—2IO yuEE.\ Street.
ADELAIDE —73 Kino William Street.
PERTH—St. George’s Terrace.
lIOBAIIx 93 Macquarie Street.
The plague has had its advantages for some
people, though not for most. Tlie Sydney Safe deposit,
for instance, h;is had a (treat accession of business during
the last few months, consequent on persons having de-
cided to prepare for tlie worst hy placing their papers,
in safety. The fear is that when a house'is quaran-
tined valuables may go astray. It is well to he on the
safe side, and the Safe Deposit affords perfect protection
against either fire or burglars. It is well worth a visit,
anyway. The Deposit is situated in Ash-street, near to
Paling and (Jo’s.*
THE TEETH.
The only means of keeping the teeth in a proper
state of preservation is by using a scientifically-
prepared, antiseptic tooth powder. Smokers especi-
ally suffer from discoloration of the teeth.
&3T Vegetable Tooth Powder, made by
NEWMAN, Chemist,
KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
Meets every requirement. J3y Post, 2s. 3d.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Sam Hordern, of sporting and com-
mercial fame, has, it is said, been offered a seat in
N.S.W. Leg. Council by two successive Govts.
Jimmy Governor is an old Vernon (Sydney
training-ship) boy. Illegally using horses was his
early bent. His father was a Queensland black,
and his mother a half-caste.
Lieutenant Ebsworth is to have a tablet
in the chapel of the intensely Jingo King’s School,
Parramatta. He was the first of the forty-five
King’s School old boys to fall by a Boer bullet.
Dead King Humbert was the only vege-
tarian monarch in Europe. He was also one of the
few kings of his day who were wounded in battle.
At Custozza, he was Lemmed-in by the Austrians,
and nearly lost his life.
“ Gentlemen, there are only two men who
can tell you how Cohen met his death, and one of
them is dead,” said barrister Duffy to the jury in
the Drouin (Vic.) murder case, prior to putting
forward “ the other man ” (prisoner) to tell his
story.
An Australian Judge who talks of resigna-
tion showed particular pique on the last couple of
occasions upon which the Privy Council reversed
his judgments. The late Justice Faucett is the
only N.S. W. Judge who was never over-ruled by
the P.C.
Edward Faunt, of Cootamundra, 90 years
of age, hopes to live into the old-age-pension era.
He boasts of having more children, grandchildren,
and great-grandchildren living than any other
man in Australasia. He built Cootamundra’s first
church and first gaol.
A postmaster, now in a northern N.S.W.
town, was present, in ’54, at Tambaroora, when
the late Mr. Justice limes (then gold-com-
missioner’s clerk) rode second in a race on a horse
called Doctor. To make up the weight young
Innes carried in his belt 131 b. of gold-dust.
Donald Macdonald offered to go with the
naval men to China, in the interests of Melb.
Argus, but editor Willoughby promptly sat upon
the proposal. Macdonald, as a lecturer, is piling
up dollars, and the idea of interfering with the
rare spectacle of a pressman making money
seemed sacrilegious to the editor.
In Melbourne Donald Macdonald is pretty
widely-known as “ The Stormy Petrel.” Having
at one time done a good deal of Parliamentary re-
porting work, he seldom now visits the House.
On each of the last few occasions he has been
present a Ministry has been thrown out. Happy
thought : Let G. H. Reid engage Mac.’s services
for a night at N.S.W. Assembly.
At a Sydney banquet-table, t’other night,
a descendant of the Macdonald! massacred at
Glencoe passed a knife, with the blade foremost, to
a member of a famous old family bearing the his-
toric name of the Macdonalds' betrayers. Most of
those who looked on stigmatised the action as one
of contemptibly bad breeding. But one or two
understood the significance and knew that the
betrayal is still unforgiven.
“ THICK.”
He: “ Yes, the plague-germs enter through the
skin.”
She : “ Then we won’t lose any of our politicians.”
Bismarck’s axiom that “sensibility, not
sense, predominates in the nature of a good
speaker, and that it is incompatible with the physi-
cal constitution of humanity that any man should be
at once a good orator and a good judge,’" is rather
rough on Waxellency Madden, and one or two
other Australian spouting chief-justices.
A certain minor Australian Judge, who
lately retired, distinguished himself when hon.
member of a swell club in London in 78, by
inviting 30 people to dinner, using the club’s
premises, cuisine, and waiters. Anew rule had
to be added to the list to guard against a recur-
rence of the the unforeseen contingency.
Lawyers are said never to be able to make
their own wills intelligible. The oldest solicitor
on N. S. W. roll, who died a couple of years ago,
worded what should have been a very simple
matter in such ambiguous terms that four counsel
and two firms of attorneys appeared recently
before the Full Court to have the point settled.
S.A. Insolvency Commissioner Russell, who
is considered a certainty for the first vacancy on
the Supreme Court Bench, started life as a boy
laborer on the wharves at Wallaroo (S.A.). Rus-
sell entirely organised S.A. Land and Income Tax
Department, and is still Commissioner of Taxes.
He has been in S.A. public service for over 20
years.
Mining speculator and incessant traveller,
Lord Dunmore, who is again in Sydney, carries
his 60 years lightly. He has been in almost all
parts of the civilised and uncivilised globe. His
top interests at present are in New Caledonia.
Dunmore is a very old Blackwood contributor ;
his sketches of travel were for years a leading
feature of that periodical. He is author of “ The
Pamirs.”
Wood and Carpenter are members of S.A.
Assembly. The latter is always having a cut at
the former. Carpenter is a staunch Labor mem-
ber, with a caustic tongue, and Wood, though
originally elected as a Labor member, is now per-
petually excluded from the conclaves of the party.
The whole party cuts Wood, in fact, though Car-
penter probably cuts him more vigorously than
the rest.
Bishop Green, of Grafton and Armidale,
now about to return to his old home at Ballarat
(Vic.) is the first Australian-ordained C. of E.
Minister appointed to a bishopric in the colonies,
just as Bishop Dwyer of Maitland is the first
cornstalk appointed to be an R.C. bishop. Dr.
Parry, late Bishop Suffragan of Dover, was a
native of N.S.W., born duriug his father’s
management of the A. A. Cowper Estate at Port
Stephens.
Tenterfield has lost its old identity, Ed-
ward Irby, at the age of 79. He had been in Aus-
tralia since 1841, and passed over the site of Ten-
terfield long ere a hut was built there. He settled
on Bolivia run, and lived most of his after time in
that locality. Mr. Irby, though generous-hearted,
amassed a considerable fortune. He has a large
number of relatives scattered about Australia.
He claimed royal descent, and was connected
with the Earl of Plymouth and Baron Boston,
besides being related to Methuen and Baden-
Powell, of Boer-war fame.
In the late sixties some leading Victorian
politicians, dis-
satisfied with
the way in
which the cat
seemed likely
to jump, inter-
viewed Chief -
Justice Stawell
as to his willing-
ness to re-enter
Parliament.
The C.J. was
desirous of quit-
ting the Bench
on account of
financial diffi -
culties caused
by mining
speculation ;
but the scheme
eventually fell
t hroug h.
' Th e n it
was sug-
gested that
Mr. (after-
wards Sir
H e n r y)
Parke s
should be
brought over
from Sydney to
lead the progressive
—which n o doubt
meant the Conservative
—party. Parkes was so
deligiited when the negoti-
ation began that he blew
the gaff too soon, and caused that scheme to
abort itself. So Uraham Berry got liis chance.
What would poor N.S.W. have done without its
Parkes ?
Should the Legations at Pekin be safe
after all, the more important of the foreigners in
them will derive much entertainment from perus-
ing the newspaper obituary notices. S.M. Herald
took upon itself to severely lecture the remains of
Sir Claude Macdonald on the way he had mis-
managed Imperial affairs in China. London
Times, too, published a panegyrical leading article
on its supposedly-dead correspondent, Dr. G. E.
Morrison, which, at the very least, should stand
the Geelong boy a substantial rise in his salary.
whose fidelity to the party in a coming divi-
sion was a matter for suspicion, was also
pacing the platform. There was evi-
dently a coolness between them. At last
Henry P. stopped, put his hand on the
other’s shoulder, and said : “ Well,
, I expect you will be with
us?” considered a moment,
then replied : “ What chance
have you of winning ? ”
When the late Joseph Bo-
sisto, of eucalyptus oil and Vic.
political fame, settled in Ade-
laide in ’4B he got a billet in a
chemist’s shop. Opposite was
the shop of a German chemist,
who had for assistant a young
man named Mueller, destined to _
become the leading botanist of his
day, a Baron, and a lot of other
things. For 40 years after-
wards Bosisto and Mueller were
neighbors again in Melbourne —
one as Curator of the Botanical
Gardens, the other in business
in Richmond. And now they
are still near neighbors in Melb.
Cemetery.
The father of N.S.W. At-
torney-General Wise was, when
in England, editor of the Queen’s
Bench Law Reports. He was
a voluminous writer on legal sub-
jects. He became Solicitor-General
Varney Parkes told his late Canterbury
(N.S.W.) constituents some anecdotes about his
departed dad. In one, he pictured to his hearers
a railway-station with Premier pa pacing up and
down the platform. Another parliamentarian,
two years after arrival in Sydney, and in
five years he was on the Supreme Court Bench.
That veteran Yic. politician, John M*Tn-
tyre, recently gave a Melb. daily some interesting
details of his early diggings experiences when a
lad of 20. He omitted to mention that in ’54,
during the license-hunting trouhles, he offered to
lead the Bendigo miners in a body to Melb. to
demand justice from the authorities.
The boom-victims are thinning out now,
but even yet one is occasionally heard of.
Recently an old man named Simon Muller hanged
himself at Hawthorn (Melb.) He couldn’t pay
the calls in the disastrous Montgomerie’s Brewery
Co., so he went off to a land where there will be
only one call, —on Resurrection Day.
Of the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly, elected
Dec. 1860, but seven are now understood to be
living—J. F. Burns, C. Cowper, John Lackey,
John Lucas, Saul Samuel,, A. A. P. Tighe, and
Wm. Walker, and only Lackey, Lucas and
Walker are now in politics, if N.S.W. Leg.
Councillors can be considered politicians.
When the first Australian Eleven were in
’Frisco some of them called on Frank Gardiner,
ex-bushranger, of N.S.W., who was keeping a
whisky saloon. Frank looked broken, but not a
bit like one of the criminal class. He remarked
that he would rather be hanged in Sydney than
die in exile. Two years later he passed in his
checks.
A few years ago a lately-defeated Leg.
Council candidate was seeking election against a
popular M.P., who was on this occasion, however,
beaten. The latter in protesting against certain
rumors circulated by his rival, remarked in-
dignantly:—“He told all sorts of people that I
was keeping two women, although he knew well I
couldn’t afford it ! ”
Holly, a Yankee engineer who years ago
erected a concentrating-plant at the British
Broken Hill, was one day pestered by an agent
representing an anti-friction-grease firm. Said
Holly : “ Waal, will you give us a trial of the
darned stuff ? ” “ Oh, any trial you like to ask
for, Mr. Holly.” “ Waal, then, just grease your-
self with it, and I’ll time you while you slide off
the mine.”
In 1883, when a junior reporter for Melb.
Age was taking his first “ turn” in the Parliamen-
tary gallery, he began firing away at a glib
speaker. Proprietor David Syme, who happened
to be in the gallery, leant over his shoulder and
said, “Don’t take a word of that fool.” So the
scribe laid down his pencil. Then another talker
arose, and David again said, “Don’t take a word
of that fool.” The first speaker was Graham
Berry, afterwards the great oracle of the Age,
the second was Geo. Collins Levey, then editor of
the conservative Morning Herald, and after-
wards a most trusted editor of the Age. Circum-
stances alter cases.
A short while before Dr. “Jack” Quick
was elected to Vic. Assembly for Bendigo, he re-
ported for Melb. Age a deputation of the unem-
ployed to Premier Service, in which the latter
said that a working-man could live in a tent on os.
a week. The scribe was late, and took a hurried
note from a friendly reporter, not having heard
the speech himself. In transcribing, Quick inad-
vertently put a twist in the phrase, which made it
capable of the construction that every laborer
ought to live in a tent on 5s. a week. And this in
Graham Berry’s “ tine country for the working-
man ! ” Marcus Clarke saw his chance, and wrote
a slashing leader for the Age. A general election
was then on, and the result was a Waterloo for
the Service Govt. What great events from trivial
causes spring !
Hugh Junor Brown (Alfred Deakin’s
father-in-law) was a captain in Durban Vol.
Cavalry 40 years ago, and on the strength of his
THE RUSH FOR THE SPOIL.
Scene in Melbourne suburb where
rats are 6d. now."
old-time knowledge of S’African affairs he wrote
to Lord Wolseley in March last year, telling him
that if he didn’t send 50,000 troops at once he
would have to send double the number later on.
Junor Brown holds true-blue Jingo doctrines re
the Boers, and declares that their individual and
collective word in any dealings with the British is
not worth a rap. But then H.J.B. was a distiller
in Natal, and the beastly sobriety of the Boers
probably prejudiced him against those uneonfkling
agriculturists.
“Here and There Memories,” byH.R. YV.
(’96), contains an old Victorian legal anecdote
worth reprinting :
A newly-imported senior judge was inclined to be pom-
pous, and greatly struck by the miscellaneous modes in
which he was addressed while on the Bench. He wrote,
asking what was the customary mode of addressing a
judge while sitting in court in Australia. The Melbourne
man replied as follows: —“Sir, —I have the honor to
acknowledge your letter No. 1981, and to reply that I
have been addressed as your worship, your lordship,
your grace, your eminence, on occasions as your honour,
and more than once as your reverence —I have the honour
to be, sir, your obedient servant, O. J. Wrixo.n, Judge,
County Court, Melbourne.”
Dignified and feeling protest by Portland
(Vic.) Guardian, apropos of a charge by the local
Loathsome Contemporary of having stolen a
report:
How true it is that eaten bread is soon forgotten ! For
years we have allowed him to go on making free use of
our reports. In the very issue in which he charges us
with plagiarism he has coolly annexed a paragraph about
the Juvenile Rechabites. We have also assisted him over
and over again with supplies of paper and ink, when our
refusal of his plaintive appeals for help would have meant
at least the temporary stoppage of his print. Residents
of Julia-street know that Mr. Kean’s barrow, which we
are sorry to upset, has been a familiar object at our front
door for months past. But now, with the prospect of a
fat election harvest before him, these favors are forgotten
and he evinces no remorse in branding us a veritable
thief. The severance of such ties causes us no regret.”
The late “Jemmy” Hoskins, M.L.C.
(N.S.W.), who died Ist April, 1900, had much
more wealth than people gave him credit for. By
will, executed in ’92, he disposed of about £lB,OOO,
consisting of mortgages and scrip. This, save a
few small bequests, he left to his son, born in
Cheltenham, Eng., in ’4B. The son, it is under-
stood, never left England, and the father, who
always passed as a bachelor during his long resi-
dence in N.S.W., does not seem to have had any
communication with him. The executors are
directed to make every search for Hoskins the
younger, or his heirs, and failing the success of
the search the estate is to go to Mr. Henry
Clarke, M.L.A.
The late Thomas MTlwraith got his first
substantial start in life as supervising-engineer of
the section of the ML Alexander railway from
Castlemaine to Bendigo. The line was completed
in ’62, and shortly afterwards MTlwraith tried to
'enter Parliament as representative of Bendigo.
Failing in that, he promptly departed for Queens-
land. On the completion of Mt. Alexander rail-
way, there was a deal of litigation, Cornish and
the executors of his deceased partner, Bruce (the
contractors), claiming vast sums for extras. It
used to be said that M‘ll wraith refused to give
evidence on behalf of the contractors until an
agreement had been made to pay him £3OOO for
his testimony. The contractors were successful,
and he got his money.
A Scotchman from Belfast is Thomas
Duncan, who succeeds Maoriland Lands Minister
Mackenzie, and about as unlikely a man to hit on
for a Minister of the Crown as his friend, John
Mackenzie, looked in ’9l. Both are unpolished
gems, though his nine years of office have rubbed
off much of John’s uncouthness. Duncan is a
remarkably poor speaker—but so was Mackenzie,
and in many other respects they are alike. Both
shared Ballanee’s enthusiasm for small settlements
and were his staunchest supporters when, in the
far-back days of the Grey Ministry, he tried to
mend things with a Land Tax and Village
Settlements policy. Duncan has shown his
common sense by refusing to have more than one
portfolio. He knows the land question in and
out, and should make a successful administrator.
Also he has had 18 years experience of jxditics.


MACONOCHIE’S
PACK EACH YEAR MORE
PISH THAN ALL OTHER
BRITISH FISH PRESERVERS
COMBINED.
Fr€sb NsrripgS
Kipp*r%d
Hcrnsjgs It) Tomato
K uppers Blberfeld Lag
DAVID STORER & SONS 1 >n Three Colors—BLACK, RED and BUIE.
.
Registered
Trade
Mark.
n
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE
Wool-
Marking OR
Perfect Sheep-Marker BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALL MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR OIL
FOR THE HAIR.
Preserves, Beautifies, Nour-
ishes and Restores it more effect-
ually than anything else ; pre-
vents grey hair and scurf. For
Ladies and Children it is the
best preparation ; also in a Gold-
en Colour for fair or grey hair.
ROWLAND’S
ODONTO
FOR THE TEETH.
Whitens and Preserves them,
prevents decay, sweetens the
breath. Ask for Rowland's ar-
ticles, of Hatton Garden, London.
Sold by Chemists and Stores.
Aboriginalities.
“P.H.C.” : When I first read “Banjo’s ”
verses entitled “ Those Names,” I was struck with
the strange melodies of the aboriginal tongue, and
determined that I would make a study of the
nomenclature of Australia. Needless to say that
my ardor was damped at the outset by some of the
words I struck. Travelling in the Clarence River
district, for instance, 1 inquired as to the abori-
ginal name of the river, and found from reliable
sources that it is “ Booroogarrabowyraneyand,”
meaning “head of the salt-water.” It is a com-
pound of three words, “booroogarra”—salt-water;
“ bowyra”—head of creek ; “ neyand ” —top. The
natives of the Tenterfield district still use the
name. Other portentous names are “ Choon-
gurracarranarindearn,” meaning “the pelican
corroboree-ground ” ; from “ choon-gurra,” a peli-
can. (Name of a hill close to Boyd’s Bay, Tweed
Heads, and now known as Observatory Hill.)
“ Murracompagoorandannie an aboriginal with
a hand cut off. (A place near Murrabrine.)
“ Warrapanilla7>mlloolacoopallinie” —a cane-grass
clay pan, the shape of a leg, with Woogra trees
growing round it. In the Macquarie and Castle-
reagh districts, the “hereafter” is known as
“ Eerintooloobongborrabin, ” and hell as “ Ween-
comogarry.” Oh, those names !
» * * *
Apropos China. The stumbling-blocks to
the acceptance of the faith taught by missionaries
are just as real to the heathen as to the average
thinking civilized man. Here is an incident of
the early days of missionary work in Australia.
The black who murdered Mr. Beverage near Lake
Bogra, while awaiting execution in Melb, gaol,
was approached by a clergyman who tried to bring
a knowledge of the future state to the aboriginal
by simple word-picture. He said : “ There is a
place called Hell where lives a very bad fellow
called the Devil, who goes about telling poor
■Hckfellow you kill’em white fellow. There is
THE BOER AT HEAVEN'S GATE.
also a good place called Heaven, where a very
good fellow called God sit down—he no like bad
fellow that kill whitefellow. Because you kill
whitefellow God says you go bung.” The black-
feUow: What for God no kill Devil; then
oJackfellow no more kill whitefellow?”
“ Cecil P.” ; Re yarn that first Australian
itleven to England was expected to be black bv
bucolic spectators. The very first Australiaii
-Eleven was black, and hearing that another team
«L^ Ck i et . erS was comin g> t ll6 yokels naturally
expected to see every man with a boomerang and
a fancy name.
.** * *
Brisbane (Q.) Gardens is an albino
wallaby. Eyes pink, but without any signs of the
usual weakness. The animal is well-grown, and
furred, and robust in all respects, which is
very unusual in albinos.
In Wellington district of N.S.W., re-
cently, a man who took a grubbing-contact from a
cocky found, at the end of 10 weeks’ solid graft,
that he had 4Jd. to receive.
* * * •
“ York ”: He carnivorous plants. It is not
generally known that the simple and smiling
primrose is of that nature. It feeds a number of
tiny white-and-brown snails, which in turn feed it
with their bodies, for its roots will often be found
embedded in their empty shells.
* ‘ Mallo ” : I once
worked a reefing-claim
lone-handed and camp-
ed in a solitary old hut,
with a 14ft. carpet snake
as my only mate. Jum-
bo was very useful in
keeping mice and ’pos-
sums away, and he used
to lie and watch me at
meals, ready to snap up
any meat I threw at
him. He had only one
fault, a startling habit
of climbing unexpected-
ly up and licking both
sides of the back of my
neck at once with his
forked tongue. One
day I’d slithered nearly
down the shaft, which
was 50ft. deep and only
the first 20 laddered,
when the rope broke,
and altho’ not hurt I
was imprisoned. I coo-
eed, but there was no
one within miles, and
my efforts to gad holes
in the side of the shaft
were unsuccessful. Long
after dark I heard a
noise, and struck a light
to find that jt was
Jumbo hanging down
from the last set. The
old boy seemed to size-
up the trouble and near-
ly turned himself in-
side-out trying to com-
municate some idea he
had. At last he hauled
himself up to the set
he was hanging from,
took a turn with his
head part round the
timber, and let his tail
drop in my direction.
Then I grasped his no-
tion, climbed up him,
and got on the timber,
and this performance
we repeated until I
reached the ladders.
I’ve often shuddered to
think what my fate
would have been if
someone, taking Jum-
bo for a mere ordinary
snake, had killed him
when he was making
over to find me. The
poor beggar was so stiff
for weeks afterwards
that he used to creak
every time he coiled
himself up.
“ Eller ” : Used to
wonder why an old far-
mer, who had no chil-
dren, bought a big tin
of lollies and a lot of
cakes every time he
came to town. Ques-
tioned him one day,
and said he—“Oh,
them’s for my horse and
dorg.” In proof, he
then gave the nag a
handful of lollies and a
cake, which the beast
readily disposed of. The
dog, also, eats fruit of
all kinds, green cabbage,
and porridge, and won’t
eat meat—l have tried
him.
During the Kelly gang excitement, while
a report was current that Ned Kelly was in the
MERE TRIFLES.
Ist. Footballbb : “ Wot the dickens is the matter with the umpire?
Has he lost his head? ” 2ND. DITTO : “ Oh, no / Only an ear and some teeth."
New England district of N.S.W., a woman dis-
guised as a man dismounted one night at a way-
side shanty near Tenterfield, called for drinks all
round, informed those present that she was Ned
Kelly, and, at the muzzle of a revolver, compelled
them to drink success to the outlaws. An old man
lying in a room near the bar, overhearing this,
crept out, caught his horse, galloped into Tenter-
field and gave the alarm. All places of business
were immediately closed and barricaded, and blue
(also pale-green) funk reigned supreme all night
and next day.
• * • *
“ S.” re the statement in N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly that the recent outrages by black-
fellows “are without parallel in the history of
the province ” :
What about the Myall Creek affair in 1838 ? At this
place, 350 miles from Sydney, there were 40 or 50 abori-
ginals on the station, including a couple of dozen women
and children. Station-Supt. Hobbs, having been absent
for a few days, on his return found these blacks missing,
but noticing some hawks and crows hovering about not
far from the homestead, he investigated and discovered
the mangled and half-burnt remains of 28 blacks, some of
whom he was able to recognise, although for the most
part the heads were separated from the bodies, and din-
goes and birds of prey had devoured much of the flesh.
An attempt had obviously been ftiade to efface by fire all
evidence of the dismal deed. It was afterwards proved
that some of the victims had been shot, and others slain
with swords. The white men on tire place said the blacks
had speared some of the cattle, but in five days’riding
about they couldn’t point out any animal so injured. These
men were put upon trial, undone Anderson deposed that,
when he was at the blacks’ camp, a number of white men,
armed with pistols, rode up, tied the blacks together, and
took them away ; and that shortly afterwards he heard
shots. “ Some of the children were not able to walk, and
were carried by their mothers, and they were all crying
until they got out of my hearing. . . . Next night the
white men came back, and the following morning they
took firesticks and went in the same direction as they
had taken the blacks. Foley, who remained with me,
said no blacks had escaped, except one gin.” At the first
trial the seven accused were acquitted, hut at the second
they were convicted and executed ; the Judge (Burton)
saying that “ there was not the slightest evidence that
the unfortunate blacks had been concerned in any such
depredation as that complained of.” Previous to execu-
tion the men acknowledged their guilt, but said they
didn’t know they were violating the law, as that sort of
thing had, they thought, “ been so frequently done in the
colony before.” What sort of a time must the blacks
have had in those days—when men on the verge of
eternity declared they did not know it was any violation
of the law wantonly to slay in cold blood three dozen or
so of fellow-beings—men, women, children and babes at
breast ?
* * * m
Re the marriage of a white gill by a C.E.
parson to Jacky Governor, the Breelong slayer,
in a northern N.S.W. district a blackfellow
(half - drunk) called at a District Registrar’s
office with a white girl to get married, but the
Registrar—because of the black’s condition-
refused to perform the ceremony. Whereupon the
pair went straight to the local Wesleyan parson,
who gathered _ m the quid without being unplea-
santly squeamish.
• • *
A Sydney Sunday paper says of Jimmy
Governor, the Breelong murderer, that “notwith-
standing his strain of white blood, it is not too
much to suppose _ that hearing of the horrible
butchery of Christians by the Chinese, he was in-
duced to imitate them.” But what about his
strain of white blood being responsible for the
whole ghastly affair ? The white man, especially
in Australia, has always done his share of murder
for the sake of murder.
* • . *
Not often does Nemesis overtake a man
quickly as in the case of Mr. Land-syndicator
- F.R.G.S., who quite recently wrote
in Melb. Age
By a system of firmness and tact I have had no diffi-
culty in making good workers of the worst Australian
savages, and I have no doubt whatever but that the
natives of Arafura (a portion of N.E. Australia) can be
prontaoly utilised for all manner of work, their remunera-
tion being only food , tobacco and other trifles.
Telegram from Adelaide, Tuesday, July 31
M reprtd ta Port Darwin that mounted-consta-
mes Stott and Stone returned overland to Brock’s Creek
yesterday, having captured two Daly River blacks, who,
it appears, after throwing the engineer overboard,
attacked and killed Larsen, the other white man, and
three Victoria River blacks on board Bradshaw’s steam-
launch.
Alas ! for Bradshaw’s system of “ firmness and
tact.”
“ E.lt.” on the Breelong aboriginal scare:
The present reign of terror in these parts ! Left my
camp to go to Mudgee and on my way called on a friend.
While there, the little son came out of a bedroom carry-
ing the wood-axe which the mother had carefully stowed
away with the fire-shovel under the bed. Further on I
came across a man repairing the road guarded by a youth
with a repeating rifle. At next place a man was building
a house also under guard of a man with a rifle.
Next place two men on guard. Short distance on
saw in a paddock two young women, who bolted
like mad for the house at the first glimpse of
me. Then came the school-house (lady-teacher) closed ;
the nearest inhabitants being a mile away. Next, just as
I was mounting a rise came the crack of a rifle and the
bullet went clipping through the leaves too close to be
pleasant, grabbed my revolver, and thought I had the
blacks—or rather that they had me—but discovered that
the shot came from two men in a hollow about a quarter
of a mile away (more danger from whites than from blacks
after all).
It is something of an anomaly that the
N.S.W. blacks should be under the official charge
°f the Police Inspector-General. The rapidly
diminishing remainder of our aborigines should bo
under the care of someone better acquainted with
their nature, and able to devote more time to their
interests.
Dear Bulletin. ; Re the butchering
Breelong blacks Harry Stockdale (8., 28/7/’00)
talks of "‘racial hatred.” But it is well known
that black police or trackers are never so bitterly
persistent as against those of their own colour—-
always providing that no tribal connection stands
in the way.—W.M.F.
• • * *
“ Axeman ” : h’e these Breelong fugitives.
I recently met a miner who was grafting up
way at the time of that tragedy, and his comment
on police proceedings was crisp and crushing:
‘ I D— —n lot of bluff! W liy ther’ were several traps
stoppin’ at— —’s pubj and they uster come down
to our camp, about five miles off the road, do a
loaf all day, and get back after sundown. Kept
that game up for two or three weeks and we uster
get the papers from town an’ see in ’em :
‘ Exciting Discovery by Trooper So-and-So.’ ‘ Hot
pursuit of the Outlaws Ivy Senior Constable -—’s
party.’ ‘Early Capture Expected,’ and so on.
And jSenior-Constable would be doing a
camp with us the whole time. Why ! they uster
nearly bust, themselves laughin’ at the accounts of
their own supposed doin’s in the papers.”
* * * *
“ Locust ” laments the increasing difficulty
of the lot of a grandfather in ‘ ‘ Australia
So greatly has the national dialect changed that I find
the utmost trouble in understanding the alleged English
spoken by my grandchildren ; and if Hive —as I hope to—
to see.my great-grand hildren, I will assuredly have to
hire an interpreter. When I hear my eldest grandson, as
1 did the other day, singing as follows :
“it is not moine to sing the stytely gryce,
The gryte soul beaming in my lydy’s fyce,”
I could not quite follow his meaning ; and when I hea> and
a young contemporary of his singing for a long time about
“ a swine,” I wondered when the pig had become the sub-
ject of lyric poetry—until I was informed that he was
singing a song about one “ I 'anion,” who, it appears, was
not a swine, but a swain. A friend of the second gener-
ation was enlisting my sympathy recently about a poor
little “wife” of seven years who was turned out by a
brutal parent. Shocked at the early marriages of the
new generation, I inquired why this juvenile person did
not go to her husband, and found that it was a
‘ 1 waif ” that my young friend was talking" about. For long
I was puzzled at the word “vurry”—but as it is used
in the same sense as “very” I always allocate it
to that. lam learning to say “ vury wull.”' I don’t know
why my young friends call a spade a “ spyde ” and a cow
a “ kee-a-ouw.” Also a cat is no longer plain cat, she
is elongated into a “ kee-at.” When a lady is i( gee-awing
dee-awn to the rilewye stytion,” she tells you so without
any false pride. When a girl says “ now’,” she doesn’t,
she just sings or recitatives “ nee-a-auw.” When she says
“now,” she means “no.” A good deal of our speech is
recitative, and perhaps that accounts for the splendid
singing voices we have here—witness the Williamson
chorus or the Sydney Philharmonic—beautiful voices and
damnable intonation. The worst experts in the newest
of the living languages are Sydney University students.
They speak a peculiarly horrible brand of it. I ask my-
self—is it a nasal defect, curable by the surgeon’s knife,
or is it ’Arry Rickards ? A surgeon friend says that one in
every seven children has nasal growth, on the eastern
A COUSIN JACK YARN.
Tredinning, miner, Cornishman—
Whose mates this tale assert—
Stepped on a cage, a pasty in
The bosom of his shirt.
The pasty fell, dropp’d down the shaft,
From side to side it bumped,
Till on an iron plat-sheet down
Two-hundred feet, ’twas dumped.
“Hi, mate, what’s doin' you up there?*
The plat-man ’twas that spoke.
“ Your pasty’s here as good as new ;
But, Lord I—the plat-sheet’s broke."
vio.
E.D.


~ prevent Bubonic Plague wear Metzler’s
fVv ~ rotectlv ® Anklets,” a certain protective against
vermin and disease germs from the
1 Iry 1 r y - are orn b 7 several members of the
Srr?l,, doctors of the staff of
wTr xT l J e £l t V and are worn also by mem-
ersoftheN.S.W. Police Force on duty in the
S quarters of Sydney, Obtainable
J 7, 1 ? a “ nrst-class chemists or from Head Office
of the Proprietary, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.*
When you treat a friend do \fot offer him
anything counterfeit. Helidon Spa has many
Sr but no “ e Possess the valuable properties
which have won for it the public’s approbation.*
RINGS
LADIES’ RINGS
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
DRESS RINGS
Half-Hoop Diamond Ring.
From £5 se.
We save our customers 25 per cent, of middlemen’s profits
We buy the gems unset, in quantities and at the lowest prices
We have old world ring-makers who do the finest of fine work.
mc * ® em King we make on the premises.
Why do we trouble to do thin? BECAUSE
GEM RINGS.
All Diamonds .. from £5 ss.
Diamond and Sapphire „ £3 3 S .
Diamond and Ruby .. ~ £3 3s.
Fairfax & Roberts,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 HUNTER (ONLY), SYDNEY.
Canterbury Press (M.L.) in a late issue
printed two articles wired to all the M.L. papers
trom Auckland on arrival of ’Frisco mail. One
described the entry into Johannesburg, the other
the hnal assault on Mafeking. In the latter, as
h 7 ° ther P a P ers > was a paragraph praising
® bravery and stating that the Boers had res-
pected the ambulance. In the former, a descrip-
tion of how British soldiers had told some Johan-
qtfwoiw <y!V° ere trying t 0 knock off a Free
fhrid- L lat fl He „ fou ffht , for bis flag ; you wouldn’t
by h the Press P ° tb W6re carefull y omitted
Peculiar Experience of a Farmer’s Wife.
4 , far ™ wife s life may be thought regular
°H “ft bu t for 17 years the life
of Mrs. Hannah Eliza Nevm, the wife of a
farmer residing at Oakwood, Inverell has
been so full of peculiar incidents as to possess
extraordinary interest. p
“ 1 a ™ ,53 years of age,” she said, when inter-
lTfe Un rin i^ ve T llve ; 1 , in , this district aII m y
KlBB3|Tij°jld3 | T ij°j Id - alwa y s attend without
d fficidty to household duties, but I then began to
fi wrf re 1 y 4° f 4 rbeumatism in my hands and
w*??»d Flt ?rr he fi agers became numb and
K Xli r4 l 4f joints ewelled, and mv
body and limbs ached all over. Later on shooting
my he ad causing intense headaches g
and my sleep was often broken. I consulted
doctor after doctor; they diagnosed my case as
but no fc mat r and neur algia in the head,
7“° treatment cured me. Then I tried an
electric battery, and many mixtures supposed to
pure rheumatism, but without effect, /read in a
pamphlet how Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills mired a
Afte/a few w ng i. T?' \ and 1 commenced them.
After a few weeks I felt so much better that I was
encouraged to continue them, with the result that
6ntlre] y cured me. The swellings in
shrunken S as Iff™ 6 ’ *4® fi , rigers are not bent and
left me f t f and tie P ain s have entirely
e t me. Ido not fear the winter now for mv
system has been so strengthened that a’ change
of season does not affect me.” cnange
m£?-!m a ri d / am a d i? not Ca H ae rheumatism. Rheu-
hW>d a C ,4 ed by a vitiated condition of the
But Dr Wn- d and damp then bring on the pains.
thus drive lTf Pl ? k Pills make rich blood and
urns drive the foundations of rheumatism and
other diseases from the system. By their direct
omc action they have cured paralysis oomsuinn
br o n n nci v° mot 4 r ataxia > skin diseases! lumS
ous d sordere of 1 " 1 ’ dySp ®P sia - an ®mia. and nen ’
T),- vnr , of m en and women. .Sold by the
Dr Williams’ Medicine Co., Queen’s Place
Sydney, six boxes fifteen and three past free and
for Dr t Williams’ Sfc °T ke / er f~ But “ ind yoa ask
ior or. w niiams. Treatise free to all who write. *
WATSON’S WHIS K Y.
coast of Australia. Perhaps it is that; perhaps it is the
system adopted by schoolmasters, who are amongst the
worst offenders. And so we have had half Australia
within the last few months “ Shee-out-ing Ree-ule Brit-
"a"ya> a , nc l,“ S'ee-owing to Tible Buy.” As I have before
remarked, the art of being a grandfather is becoming
more and more difficult. . B
Apropos Mr. Divining-rodster
s interview with Melb. reporter (Age,
25/7/ 00), writer met a sturdy Scotchman in W. A
who was a firm believer in the efficacy of the
rod m water-locating. He had no prejudice in
favor of any particular wood, but, as a rule, used a
bit of fencing-wire, turned in the form of aV, with
the ends bent out slightly to allow of-a grip with
each hand, the instrument being held horizontally.
According to him, the trend of the. underground
current was indicated by the “ rod ” turning up or
down, the up-turn signifying that the operator
was walking against the stream. Scotty was very
successful in Katanning district, W. A.
* ♦ » *
“Trotter” on the W.Q. drought :—
Stock has nearly all left Winton district for the coast:
trains running day and night for weeks. When I was
there they got nearly 3in. of rain, the first for almost two
years. One man lost 7000 shorn sheep in two nights from
cold, wet, and starvation ; another 2000, and there are
many more in the same boat. But the most pathetic
sight was round the railway yards and down at the local
bore, where, of 10,000 shorn sheep from Baratria station
for trucking, fully 4000 perished. I saw hundreds upon
hundreds of carcases carted away, and others piled in
huge pyramids and burnt. At the bore the wretched
animals perished in scores, crowding round the hot bore-
pipe in dense masses, and standing huddled where the
steam from the heated water could blow on to them. 3in
of rain make no impression on this country--nothing less
than 8 or 9in. would do any good. The country from
Jjongreach to Winton is in the worst condition of any in
" . Q., and it will take years for it to recover, even if it
gets ram, which isn’t probable.
* • * *
Bennett Burleigh, London D.T war-cor-
respondent, on the Australian as a curser ;—
Alas, these Boer tracks, how they encourage vain words,
and the practice of profanity ! Drivers or passengers, who
think they have a gift of free vernacular, are hailed with
joy when they voice fellow-sufferers’ unspoken anathemas,
ic is welcome, as in the nature of relief to one’s own
pent-up feelings, to hear another who swears easily pour
fiery contempt upon “the whole boiling” of bumble-
dom and Boerdom. Admittedly, our Mr. Thomas Atkins
has a jarring, curdling vocabulary of expletives, and
bailor Jack can even give him points, for though he
knows not how the Army swore in Flanders, I wot they’ve
learned in furrin parts.” But at a pinch, when we look
for variety, vigor and vilification, we call upon the
Colonials to give due lurid expression to exacer-
bated feelings. There is no monotonous reiteration
about their extensive diction, and Tommy and
Jack keep silent, lost in admiration of their talent.
A ay, the very dumb brutes acknowledge their gifted-
ness, for oxen and mules, which would not strain a pound
nor budge an inch for native or British objurgations, the
instant a Colonial takes up his parable, hasten to break
thews, muscles, and bones, rather than stand stuck in a
drift, and have such abuse showered upon them. I have
seen teams shift an ox-waggon bogged in a sluit where
the track sloped like an old-fashioned gable, in a twink-
driver P0 " the flr8t persuasive “slanging” of an Australian
“ Boja ” : Reason blackfish won’t bite in
winter is that the large bodies of water coining
down during that season bring with them ample
food for fish fry said black-fish with dainties
foreign to their native stream and they’ll bite
at Wildwood (Vic.) splendid takes of
bait Sh b0mg made Wit “ salt ' water shrimp
* * • •
Met the champion “spinner-up” lately
out West. He was telling us strange George
Washingtons about sand-storms in the early’
days near Wilcannia when be was droving
for a station out there. Told us there was
a brush sheepyard on the station ;
terrific sandstorm came along and com-
pletely covered it up. Manager built
another yard on top of first.
History repeated itself and mopped
out No. 2 yard in one act. There-
upon the manager (being of a
persevering brand) built No. 3
yard on top of the other two,
and used it for the station
sheep. From continual use a
hollow worked in centre of
the yard. Our friend came
along with 4000 fat sheep
for Melbourne, and put
them in for the night.
Same night a healthy
thunder-storm came up
and 3 inches of rain
fell. Result, 500 sheep
found drowned in the
yard in the morning. The
balance of sheep topped Melbourne market.
.* * * *
a while back, in a N.Q. libel-action, the
man sued stated, in defence, that Mongrelian
journalism was, “as a rule, a bit hot.” Some ex-
tiacts from a letter in a recent Bundaberg paper:
Listen to me for one moment, you crawling l hound
fc't y v° Ur ? ffor i to advertise me, but I would like
you cast. y f ° r the mean ’ con temptible aspersions
This beautifully virile effusion laconically ends :
I H^° Uld , r , emark that 1 re £ ret w aste of so
ence occasfo’naHy RS y ° U deserve a satirical refer-
If above is merely “ occasional satirical reference ”
,wK t be^" kal “and d ’ s «i»go
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken oj communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
I. Bales : We simply mean that the only Euro-
pean 1 national flag which consists of three strips (red,
white and blue) placed lengthwise is the flag of Holland.
Said flag hasn’t the faintest resemblance to anything
British. There were probably 5000 Dutch flags flying in
Melbourne on Mafekingday, and 10,000 more being waved
in the street. At the great sharebrokers’ demonstration
at Melbourne every sharebroker save one wore the
colors of hostile Holland. The great Purves wore
Dutch colors. The orchestra that banged patriotic
tunes for the sharebrokers in Melbourne Royal had
Dutch colors pinned on its coat. The committee
was decked with Dutch colors. The audience was
waving them, and the actors worked in enthusiastic allu-
sions to them. Hanging outside every theatre was the
red, white and blue of Holland. And Sydney, Brisbane,
Adelaide, &c., were more or less the same way. It was
the joke of the century—a thing to make Australia the
scoff of the world—to see thousands of people waving
a hostile flag thinking it was their own !
G.S. : Yarn more-or-less incorrect all the way through.
I robably.Syine met Deakin at a spiritualists’ gathering,
but that is an old story. The trip to Fiji was taken, at a
friend s invitation, for the benefit of his health—a holiday
trip, in fact. Deakin was a spiritualist before he met Mrs.
Britten, and never reckoned himself another John the
Baptist. But he did publish a book (“ under inspiration ”)
which was practically a continuation of f< Pilgrim’s Pro-
gress,” written in a John Bunvanish style O.R.A. :
Bord Roberts is the strongest teetotal influence in the
English-speaking world, anyhc v B.Y.Z. : We only ob-
ject to the gentleman because he is all the beasts of Reve-
lations by instinct and some more beasts by education.
.... Carlos : The Argus’s Chinese trade-figures, as given,
certainly don’t add up correctly, but what figures it meant
to give are known only to itself and the Almightv W.
H. : Material for a good yarn, but told in such a dull, mat-
ter-of-fact way that it reads like a list of the dead animals
on a drought-stricken station. ..Zebra L.O.: Your preacher
dri fts into burlesque, and not very wholesome burlesque...
Cecil P. : What’s the use of such a humorless mendacity
as that wombat-yarn? Bulletin's tired of repeating that
it has no use for lies—simply as lies....H.G. (No. 2):
But that de Quiros question was settled against
the Cardinal, by Ernest Favenc and others, long
before Bevan took it up... .Tuniwka: “It actually
happened here lately.” And The Bulletin printed
it years back about an Australian black 1..
Alone : One verse of your “ Instructions to Kissers ” pro-
claims you an amateur in love-making. You say—
Pay no attention when she murmurs “ Brute ! ”
Or feigns to struggle as both arms enfo'd her ;
Kiss on, and on, until her lips be mute,
And lo I her head rests shyly on your shoulder.
Quilp N. : “Doing Well” is rather scramble-
some verse Frank: Facts duly noted.... Cecil
"• : Hardly sufficient interest in '“Paths to Great-
NOT HIS LINE.
LADY: “ You say you’ve tried for months to get
work, and can’t get a job anywhere.”
LOAFER: No, Missis — nothin’ but choppin ’
wood.”
e8 ?'" Kodak: Story all parentheses and short
ba f ks Bendee: Kidney yarn very horrible and
not interesting.... A. J.B. : Thanks.... Hayseed-
Well, if the scenery was rather cronk it was quite good
enough for that weary opera. Try “ Rose of Persia " for
your liver.... Absent-Minded B. : Have a vague recollec-
tion that some politician was fool enough to make that
w a w e p en fe, bu i dont reco| lect which fool it was
denr : M room -mate is an old fictional inci-
dent.. C.H.R : Bit gruesome, but is life-like and mav
be used R Lp . (Vic.) : Sketch may be fixed up a bit
and used.. . .Laura B.: Rather a strong life-study, but
crude in places and finishes ineffectively. Ishmael •
n-,mk n r f e th ® teliing... . J im 0. : Pointless as a
) npstn !.... Roughrider :As usual—merit, but not
enough P.H.O. : You write fairly well, and have here
and there a good touch of satire, hut your work suggests
lack of mental precision... .T.P.O. : Thanks •an astound
Tf ; F ork Kon art ' = “ B u UllS ” are ‘‘ OS,” tha S n 0 k U s nd :
one .P olnfced enough T.J.N.: Friction-fire
subject done with. H.G. : Also ploughing question
Sophy: Too crude.... Battler: To hand; pars, pretty
Leave more line-space. That practice of
the dabchick and other diving-birds is a matter of common
knowledge Ston :If you can prove that the detectives
tried to blackmail that discharged prisoner after he had
Police bl fikw U -Pi° Uld t ®l l tb ? Inspector-General of
Police.... O. K. W. : Please write address clearly on stamped
and we Wlll recommend you an honest and
skilful specialist J.H.T. : Unsavory Kentucky Bill :
Even more unsavory... .St. George: The sketch certainly
looks as if it had been drawn by a blackfellow : as witness
the importance given to the pipe One Who Knows •
Don’t care to return to subject... .Coral: Obvious lie arid
humorless..... A.P. : Drum-heads are not made of sheep-
skin, but of goatskin. Hence the reason why soldiers,
jingoes and others “ act the goat.”... .Q.P. : Better to be
bead of a department in a Crown colony than in a Respon-
sible State. Ministers of a Crown colony carry pensions
into retirement; under Responsible Govt, they don’t—
Ji n J ess P, arliament expressly vote one Ben Sun:
Spirit too tame W.M.W. : Not enough distinction.
Koo Snatcher : You “hope soon to supply some more.”
Hope springs eternal in the human pest.. W.H (ML)'
Good wishes cheerfully accepted ; verse sadly declined. ’
J.M.I. : Fine lead-mine wasted in you W.M.F. : Last
not up... M. L Mac: There’s a good heathen moral in
it, but not worth B. space.... W. E.C. : Too much like the
same old oft-printed song...,A. Clarion: Something
wrong with the mouthpiece Novice: Please take the
mack veil at once—your verses should live a retired life
away from the glare of the harsh world J.O.F. :
o** r? Buffic ' ent < kee P “ the others.” R.C. : Your
a j r Door ” c : ollars Quinn’s ideas, scene and title.
What do you think of yourself, anyway ?... iLunaria :
Ihere is something moony about it.... W. A.K. : May that
first attempt” be your last Fortuna : “Her eyes
are dark wells —handy to drop “ poems ” d0wn..."..
Tangata : You 11 meet those old favourites' in “ A Book of
Bulletin Verse,” to be published shortly... WM J •
You are an all-right ’un :—“ Dear Sir,—l enclose herein’a
poem, and wish to know your charge for inserting the
same. If it is at all reasonable I shall gladly have it in-
serted in your valuable paper. Be so kind as to let me
know by return of post, and I shall send the money ”
Charge is 245. for the poem, and £lOOO for the personal
hbel contained..... Gobung: Not good enough. Cosmo:
Presumably the lamentation of the prophetess Jere-
”} a " a - •~ ■ : No, it won’t..... R.T.: You want a prize
° f u r An Ode on the Australian Common-
wealth. The thought makes our own last epics stir in-
side,... Alec S. : Not enough interest fowepace;... Copper
M.. Ventilate locally Berkeley : “ There is no peace—
"° throng.” That’s how we feel exactly.
“ : A °out the evil there is no doubt, but there is a lot
of doubt about the adequacy of your remedy for it....
R.I.P. : We let it do 50... .C.H.R. : “ Kiss ”is a rather
plain, bare gruesomeness.... W. E. M‘L. : Considering
suggestion. But it is hardly a see-saw now ; the bear end
l? r “s> wn all the time and the bull end is nowhere Milky
White : A pretty story, but too slight.... J.H.W. : 'Know
of no such examination... .A.8.D.: The woman who dls-
gxuses herself as a boy to go with the man she loves, and
dies m trying to save his life, has been worn to many
hundred tatters... .R.S. (Essendon) : Metrically correct,
anc P® glaring defects ; but the ideas are commonplace
and the long, flowing metre is ditto A. Dadd : Smith
story rejected with great corrobboree Anti-Alien: A
certain amount of information can be gathered laboriously
by pmkmg it out of some dozens of Govt, publications,
but there is no work which gives a comprehensive, up-to-
date statement of the Australian alien question. When
next census is taken it will be possible, by comparison
with previous census, to get a good view of the trouble.
fv.o' : ,y° ur story is even more horrible
than three others which came right on top of it in the big
heap now before us. Well told and thrilling, but too
£!l eOUS 1° pnnt ' V;, Qu 3JP N. ; “Punchin”’ for illustra-
tion perhaps. J.K. (W.A.) : Steele Rudd’s “On Our
Selection will be mailed on receipt by publisher, Bulle-
tin office, of 6s. in stamps. Ogilvie’s “ Fair Girls and
Grey Horses ’ post-free for 4s. 6d....Tangata-Mata : An
exhausted subject.. New Chum (Q.) : Too discursive,
ww u c ? n each ff ri evance to a separate slip ?....
E. Welland : M.L. Parhamentary-HANSARu-chief Grey was
not a permanently-salaried official, lie only drew a
retaining-fee for sessional reporting, and was at liberty,
according to the terms of his engagement, as signed by
Premier Seddon himself, to utilise his spare time as he
Uked. In his spare time he wrote articles against the
Govt, war-policy, and for this he was dismissed
Reid' Wif fc U n>r® e : N ' S '.T; leffal delegates were Barton,
Reid Wise, O Connor, Abbott, and Carruthers. How
fc -n ey c ?“ Pare Wlth the non-legal delegates-Lyne
M itillan, Walker and Brunker ? When vou get down to
Brunker, you feel that the lawyer is not intolerable as a
constitution-framer. as a
“ Coolly take unerring aim—now, mind,
t If you miss, her contempt goes for that sin.
A clumsy aim just spoils the game, you’ll find,
And lands it on her ear, or nose, or hat-pin."
Now listen to what you ought to have said—
Embrace the darling roughly, never fear ;
Young love’s first squeeze'is offtimes much too tender ;
Ram kisses on her cheek, her lips, her ear,
And though she frown, don’t think that you offend her.
A GIRL’S LETTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have had letters from damsels and dames,
Read them with laughter and flung them away;
I have half-forgotten the writers’ names,
But one little letter Til keep for aye.
Staying one season a iveek by the sea
There was a country girl 1 met,
In face and figure a queen, and she
Wrote me the letter VU never forget.
I had been reckless as men may be,
And loved her a little to pass the time,
And kissed her once by the coral-tree,
And wrote her, I fancy, a careless rhyme.
But I only guessed when we came to part,
The night that I bade her a light good-bye,
How well I had stolen her simple heart —
For she held me close with a stifled cry.
I told her kindly—l tried to be kind-
'll) at no love buds in a single week;
But deep in my heart I could not be blind
And her passionate tears still burn my cheek.
And my heart was sore, and my eyes a-brim,
And I spoke no word as a lover would,
Hut I left her there while the stars grew dim,
And the red sun reeled in a sea of blood.
And a week and a day and her letter came,
And to read it a harder heart might melt,
It was rolled on a petal of coral-flame,
Awkwardly worded and all mis-spelt
I read it at night and my eyes grew wet,
I read it at dawn and my heart grew sore;
It waits and it is not answered yet —
For to give her a hope were to sin the more.
And to take the hope that is in her heart—
Ah, to take that hope were a cruel thing l
So I turn to the kisses of Fame and Art,
But ... I know that the corals are blossoming
And sick of their praises I fling them aside—
These flattering letters of damsel and dame
And whenever my breast grows full with pride
There s a letter I read for the scourge of shamt
FREELAMCE


CRTOONLETS.
THAT PATRIOTIC FUND TRUST.
“ Parting is such sweet sorrow ! ”
L Some genius has proposed that the Gov.-General
be landed at Botany, the scene of Captain Cook’s
first landing.
His Ex. (approaching the land): “Has no
public building been erected there to mark
so important an historic event! ”
Member op Ministerial Party : “ Not ydt,
your Lordship • but it has more than
once been mentioned as a suitable site for
noxious trades.”
N o<*
, *°v.
Ok
yj s
f?
*/ x?
AV>
£
*4*
"°>
<4
m
nm
EXIT THE GEEBUNG PARTY.
Westralian Federal Referendum.
For ... 45,616
Against ... ... ... 19,737
.Majority for - - 25,879
V-M
"hMq
A Ka s^
Chief Confidential Bottle-Washer : “Tvo been a-wonder-
ing, sir, when Federation is established, whether you
were at all thinking of shifting the business to
Melbourne to be near the—the source as it were——”
Principal Partner in the Firm and General High Muck-
a-Muck : “ No. Wouldn’t think of such a thing.
Why Melbourne will only be a sort of temporary
Washington, anyhow 1 ”
« Jf current rumors are to be credited,
serious trouble has developed in connec- .
tion with the Yictorian Naval Contin-
gent. It is said to have begun on the
march to the boat at Melbourne, when
an officer seized a bottle of liquor that
was being handed to one of the men and
dashed it to the ground. Directly the
ship cleared the Heads the same offioer
ordered some of the men up aloft. They
refused point blank to go.
A North Shore Alderman suggests Cremome Point
as an eligible site for the Gov.-General’s residence.
Good business! A member of The Bulletin staff
who lives in the neighborhood could pull over in his boat
of a Sunday morning and drink whisky with his Ex., and
otherwise be a father to him.


MELBOURNIANA.
Mr Oatts thinks that some of the bnsl-
nees men In the city should devote part
of their time to winning souls. Many of
them, he says, have more Influence than
the ministers, and could do very good
.work In this way,*
" e 7 n
v l^ercWjJ^v-'ife
[\ by stotfv.)-
|\^v'
J/Ou, (_
\ will , v *^
M H«sW>% de*»\ Iw
► \ <Wy^.
\ wy '^ ,tr f E
\ SO •
The beat point in Mr. Watt’s speech was
the ingenious manner in which he laid hold
of Sir George Turner’s figures and turned
them against the ex-Premier. All this waa
clever enough, and up to a certainjpoint made
a favorable impression upon‘the House. But
the Postmaster-General has a fatal gift of
smartness which does not allow him to get his
opponent at a disadvantage without rubbing
it m.
Now, although Sir George Turner has gone
astray lately, he is not unpopular in the
House, and members did not like this waspish
teasing by the youthful Minister. It is well
known that the Premier has had occasion to
reprove his juvenile colleague for an occasional
. undue exuberance of spirits, and Mr. M‘Lean's
l grim solemnity of features during Mr. Watt’s
> humorous interlude last night waa a shadow
from the day of judgment.
Iren?ier fl
* ve«fc y^
? ao<>7. w-r r V
g. y e JOO")f 07 en J' >
| PI believe very much in.hymns. Son
can sing things into children that yon
cannot get Into them otherwise. — ur
Strong. / H
«?v.
Jr*W
<S>
\ s
'The” Herald" Is the most religion?
prtper In Victoria, first because of Its <
fairness, secondly because of the
amount of space it gives to reports of
religious movements.”—Bcv..Dr. Black,
supporting the view of Dr. Watkin, at
the East -Brunswick Presbyterian
Obnrcfei^atevening.
fditor Wi
little rwWWy ssjisj *£&iw frjmrjfiytiirt, .«
mft-
& title H?*f 1 Vw I7OW i«7 my mwk- '
—-\ i I u i wou i<i. ask you heartily and earn-
estly to remember that, however na-
ture may be excited, we all owe loyalty
to God, to do no murder. 1 trust that
on the day of battle that those quallliea
of our race, .whether in sport or In con-
test, will be developed, and that you will .
remember that while your fiercest eo*
■ ergyis directed against the enemy, If
once that enemy yield to your force,
your dunning and your skill, yon will
_ spare him, which you have always been
- taught to do as the square. That is
way in which we must distinguish
—our race from savages.’* Sir John \
saying “good-hye” to our naval
~ contingent. J %
CotyeA
of \
Iff®
t-jerJl Boy of orful
CWc I7 ftwdaj •"
Boy: * 'MF* Gre&fDWo»t*


Handsome $ Useful Wedding Presents.
Call and See our Displayed Showrooms.
An Up-to-Uate Show.
We Replate Old Silverware Equal to New.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cake BASKET, chased, 18s (id ; plain, 16a 6d.
Other styles, 20s, 255, SOs, £2, and £2 10s.
We guarantee the quality.
Send for illustration.
II flUknrjn A ‘ LAUNDERS.
UENTS FRIEND," Letter Book, Pure Solid Silver,
mounted, 15a, 20a, 255. A Useful Present,
Ruby JAM, 12s fld and 15s 6d. Pure Silver,
plated. Guaranteed Quality.
Send for Price Book.
LADIES' FRIEND.
Pure Silver-mounted, 18s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Flora] BISCUIT, firac-cl*ss,
20s, 22s od, 255.
LADIES’ FRIEND,
Silver-mounted, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oak Biscuit, pure Silrep
plated Mounts, lie 6d 4
Fluted Bands, 20a a
Shield only, 12s Od,
FLOWER STANDS.
• lfis M pair.
Other styles, 10s, 12s fld, 20a
JPure Silver-plated.
COFFEE POT,
A. SAUNDERS.
•olid Metal Silver-plated BUTTER
255; similar, very neat and pretty, ’
20s, 22s 6d.
Pure Silver Manicure SET. First-class
20s ; smaller, 12s 6d.
TEAPOTS.—Pure Silver-plated, First-class, 80s.
Other styles, 17s 6d, 20s, 255. Send for Book of Patterns.
Pure Silver-Mounted PURSES, 15s, 20s.
Cheap Styles, 6s, 7s 6d, 10s.
Pure Solid Silver PENCILS (Cedar), 3s 6d and 4s 6d.
Old Plate Made Equal to New.
Estimates Given. • Send Your Address.
4 o'cKck TEA SET, with Covers, Gilt inri
20 Years' Guaranteed.
£2 10s, worth £4 4s. Other styles,
, l ure Silver-plated.
•£«, £2, £3, £4.
*uonwi«nni jo; puag en|«A Proofs ‘*9l Z»
wr> MHS u> ‘BOKOO P«« RBHSmiH JOAIIS OJO.I 3
m
Avideia Hno aae-^-
QNV VIVO AICJNIM
I saipßi
TEAPOT.
nm
n
SUGAR, with (
First-class Electro S
Other styles, £4 4s,
Jover - MILK, with Cover.
A. SAUNDERS.
lilver-plated TEA and COFFEE, £5 Bs
£6 6s 6d, £8 Bs, £lO 10s. Bend for List. '
ENTREE DISHES, 4 Pieces, Pure Silver-plated, £2 17a 6d
Others charge you £4 4s. TRY A. SAUNDERS.
Mil i l 'j i; 1 Slffii'iliMSfflES
MlRBi
2 Bufcter KMV ES, Pearl Handle, 15s 6d. Cheaper Btvle,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d. Send for List.
CRUETS —4-bottle Square Bottles, 21s.
Similar, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
EOG CRUETS, 30s, 3f>s, £2. Cheap,
20s, 255. Pure Silver-plated.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-plated COAL
SCUTTLE, 16s 6d, 20s, 265.
FLOWER STANDS.
Latest Style, 21s pai&
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER, os above, 15s Cd ; Large
Size, 20s. Guaranteed Quality.
A.'JtT,
Pa e Silver-plated BUTTER, 8s 6d.
Special Value.
Silver-plated BERVIETTE RINGS, 8s M.
Pure Silver, 10s 6d, 12s 6<L
Ruby Glass SALTS and SPOON, 10s 8d pair
Other styles, 6i 6d, 8s 6d.
" I 1 ; II .4 |
.' • f W,;f- V /• <v;§v'.-f
!J {. ffc 1
-V \ ■y\ / \ - \
wsi - v is
■ ▼ •
• -> £ '- .. •* ■ \ ■
A. SAUNDERS.
4 o’clock TEA SPOONS and TONGS, 12s fld ;
Ocher Styles, 15s, 20s, 255.
Spoons, without Case, ss, 7s 6d, 10s half-dozen,
Puro Solid Silver, in Silk Case, 26s ;
With Tonjra, 30s and 365.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 6 Bottle Design,
£2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOAST RACK, 10s 6d. Other Styles,
8s Cd, 12s 6d, 15s. Pure Silver-plated.
Guaranteed Quality.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hot Water Tea KETTLE, 86s;
Embossed, £2. Others charge
£2 10s and £3 tor same article.
We Guarantee the Quality.
a u SENDERS. Spoons and Forks—Solid Nickel Silver Table Spoons or Forks
4s half-dozen ; Dessert, 3s ; Tea, Is 6d. Pure Silver-plate (on Hard White Metal)
Tnt b i!lfE? 0I?8 „ and Fork f ! ! 2s l ? al, - do «n ; Dessert, 10s ; Tea, 5s 6d. These are Guar-
anteed to give every satisfaction. Dinner and Dessert Knives, 4s 6d and 9s 6d half-
dozen, the very best Sheffield Steel. TRY THEM. nall
A. SAUNDERS.—Butter KNIVES, pure Silver-plated, 2s 3s 4s 1
i P~»Handle, 3s 6d ; Extra Mounted, 6s 6d. ’ ’
Jam SPOONS, same price. Two in Case, 7s 6d and Ids.
A. SAUNDERS.—Pure Silver FRUIT KNIFE, 6s, 7s 6d, 10s.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, Large Size, 32s Bd.
Cheaper Style, 20s, 255.
mn
m
Jeweller $ Silversmith
815 George Street,
Nearly
Opposite
Railway
Btation,
Sydney
■A. BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF PRESENTS.


Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
TECH FAMOUS FCEM.HDY FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief ; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs *’ have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BEWARE OP COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULR
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d ; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Minerva. Tonic ia a phorphorised iron syrup *
Minerva Tonic
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
Minerva Tonic
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
Minerva Tonic
is also approved by the British Lancet, the
highest authority in the world.
Minerva Tonic
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
Ire you Too Stout?
AN ARSOUJTEhY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With Improvement In Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either Hex, without any restriction or
change ol diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesity, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALING REMEDY GO., 38
Ellzaheth-street, Sydney.
DA.PTO (Lalco
(LIMITED),
Illawarra),
near SYOWEY.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
PRODUCERS
or
FINE SILVER.
B
I B
MAKERS OF
“ S. Co. of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW ARRA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COFFER ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEF REFINERS of SILVER LEAD BULLION
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SI I’TLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
Eor all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd., DAPTO, N.S.W. ; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
PREVENTS BRIGHTS DISEASE
i| i* SfcSt c
EXACT size:
OFTHEBOTTLE
K
+—+
KUTNOW’S
improved Effervescent Carlsbad
POWDER.
• t
KH
m
01
or Deer Leap
V*
S'/f
’4?
» IONDOUf!
41, FARRiNGDQN ROAD, E.C>
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
EXACT SIZE
OFTHE BOTTLE
By Freeing the Kidneys of the Impurities that Weaken
them and Render them Unfit to Perform their Functions,
KUTNOW’S POWDER Prevents Bright’s Disease and other
Distressing Maladies.
Gravel, smarting and scalding sensations, excessive uric acid formations, backache, swollen and cold feet,
etc., are so many evidences of a condition of the kidneys that frequently ends in Bright’s Disease. This condition
of the kidneys is generally brought about by inactivity of the stomach, liver and bowels, which results in the
blood becoming charged with an excess of uric acid and of other waste substances that the kidneys have to
remove from the system. This additional labor causes them to become weak, disordered, and congested, and a
certain proportion of these substances remain in the kidneys, producing the various symptoms mentioned!
It will, therefore, be seen that Bright’s Disease is caused by derangements of the kidneys and other
digestive organs, which are themselves caused by careless eating and drinking, and other unhygienic habits
Tms being the case, there is only one way to prevent Bright’s Disease, and that is by restoring the kidneys and other
digestive organs to a healthy state of activity. Nothing accomplishes this better than KUTNOW’S Improved
Effervescent Carlsbad POWDEIt, which, by cleansing, stimulating, and strengthening the stomach, liver, and
bowels, prevents the further accumulation of uric acid and other disease-breeding deposits in the blood, and
thereby enables the kidneys to recover from the effects of their overwork, and to get rid of the impurities with
which they have become clogged. F
With the kidneys restored to healthy activity, the gravel, smarting and scalding sensations, the backache
and other symptoms will disappear, and all danger of Bright’s Disease or any other kidney ailment will be
removed.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS
Kutnow’s Improved Effervescent Carlsbad Powder may be obtained in capsuled bottles from all Reliable Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, See that the Registered Trade Mark, “ Hirschenspnmg» (or Deer Leap), and the autograph,
facsimile signature, “S. KUTNOW <C CO., Ld.,” are on the label and carton. Only these ensure genuineness
Insist on “KUTNOW’S,” and )Irmly refuse substitutes. They may be worthless, probably injurious.
t
PROPRIETORS
S> KUTNOW & CO-, Ld. f 41 Farringdon Rd., London, E.G.
PROPRIETORS IN u g & -
KUTNOW BROS., Ld -! 853 Broadway, New York City.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . • •
geo. Roe a Co.
JOHN MEACHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives,
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
—rrmi, imb
ITHLrUm
m
G-O TO HBLL-
ItiOLAND f° r Pretty Stamps, but
if you want real (rood stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo,
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizateth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
list s gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Sti.k OTTur*
Mattalassk and other Unshuinkablk Shikts
ate highly recommended.
it3/~ ]>er Half-dozen, free Ini post throughout
A astral ia.
Patterns and Measurement Forme on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane, Q'land.
D?MACKENZIES
3RSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society.
S. Hurvcy, ltd.,
London, S. E.
mn
mn
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALT€R BRADLCY # CO.,
Curniture atnl Cine Art A art ioneers,
Auction Rooms, 324 Gsorga Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION 4 FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniturn, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted By
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a coni|>eleni staff.
Sales Held at the A action /looms.
Cash Advanced on Ooods for Unreserved Sale.
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
POLITICAT
POINTS
The margin lines of “mourning ” used by
Melbourne Age in publishing the “Death of
Prince Alfred,” served also to enclose a paragraph
on the sad subject of N.S.W. Public Accounts.
One gushful member of M.L. House of
Reps, wants the Govt, to give the contingenters
perpetual free railway-passes on their return. The
idea fell flat with the buttered side downwards.
Tieinvith, M.L.A. (Victoria) on Frank
Madden
To do the lioti. member justice, 'ne has always fear-
lessly and consistently opposed every effort to ameliorate
the condition of the poor.
N.S.W. legislators are fast dropping out of
the Federal campaign. A few months ago, almost
every member announced himself an intending
Federal candidate. To-day, not more than 50
members openly talk of nominating.
Statistician Coghlan should seriously con-
sider the expediency of including warriors in his
return of N.S.W. exports. Let him get them in
ahead of the rival statists. And if the tables were
ever turned invaders could be included among the
imports.
Only four of the present members of Vic.
Leg. Council have been elected to their seats, all
the rest having walked in without a contest, a
proof, according to the adoring Argus, of their
marvellous popularity ! —not that the House of
Rich Landlords is impervious to the people.
Hicks-Beach was vociferously cheered upon
stating that the British policy in China was not a
policy of annexation cable. Not annexation?
vociferous cheering 1! Well, let us see : Russia,
100,000 troops ; Japan, 100,000 ; Germany, 20,000 ;
Britain, 20,000 ! ! Ao, sirs, ours is not a policy of
annexation.
“The Übited States named its Federal
capital after its first President —Washington :
therefore, the Commonwealth capital, Hopetoun,”
says a pragmatic N.S.W. high official. But the
U.S. didn’t name its capital after its first im-
ported English governor of the old colonial days,
so the inference fails badly.
Major Randall Carey (Sydney D.T. boss)
and ex-M.L.A. Varney Parkes are reckoned sure
things for big billets under the Sydney Harbors
Resumption Act. Three or four other “dead
birds ” are named in whispers, but the row that
will rise over .Carey and Parkes. should give
Premier Lyne a sore-enough head.
The Imperial authorities obviously didn’t
want the S.A. gunboat Protector and crew, but
the tub and its men were absolutely forced on
them at the point of the cable. Nor were the
N.S.W. and Vic. naval contingents wanted, but
they were offered, and it was considered necessary
*o ‘umor the politicians who are pulling the wires.
WHAT WE EXPECTED—BUT IT ISN'T SO BAD AS ALL THAT.
Out of 62 invalided Australian soldiers who returned last week, only five had been wounded—two accidentally; the rest
were ex-fever patients.”
In connection with lawyer Maxwell’s can-
didature for Warrnambool (Vic.) constituency
against brainy, burly, downright Jack Murray,
what is already puzzling the local democrats is
that a self-styled radical should be backed up at
all his meetings by only the rankest Con-
servatives.
Maori land politician E. M. Smith holds
that his province should borrow a hundred millions
and “develop the natural resources of the country
to their fullest extent.” If there is one cant
phrase in the Australian vocabulary which should
be made an offence punishable with £lOO fine and
two floggings, it is that one about “developing
the natural resources of the country.”
N.S.W. Works Minister O’Sullivan’s
worthy minimum daily wage for employes in his
Department is not alone good in itself, but good
as an example to employers in general. In the
first place, however, all Govt. Departments should
be brought into line. At present some of them
are paying only 6s. a day, and if the men ask to
be raised to O’Sullivan’s minimum they are told
to “clear.”
John Murray, M.P. for Warrnambool
(Vic.) on the fake by which, in dividing Victoria
for the Federal elections, the M'Lean Govt, has
wedged a slice of a Tory district into his own
Radical one : “If you look at the colored map
you will see that the Govt, has stuck a big pink
peninsula down into the bowels of Warrnambool
that is calculated to destroy its political digestion
for evermore.”
Big John Forrest is in a peculiar situa-
tion. He has lately turned as strongly Federa-
tionist as his hesitating character allows. He is
Premier of Westralia, and Westralia in general
has given a huge majority for Federation. Bub
John’s own constituency of Bunbury is one of the
handful of backward little places which gave its
vote for Parochialism, so Forrest is torn by con-
flicting instructions, so to speak.
Two Bills affecting Parliamentary machin-
ery are in course of preparation for N.S.W.
Assembly. One abolishes the Public Works Com-
mittee, establishing in its stead a paid expert
board. The other abolishes the Elections and
Qualifications Committee, transferring the duties
to the Supreme Court. Both these measures will *
be welcomed by the public, and surely none will
be so bold as to gainsay them in the House.
If Premier Lyne does not hurry up with a
Bill cutting down the membership of N.S.W. As-
sembly, and otherwise cheapening the State Par-
liament, lie will be discovered one of these days
running into the House trying to hold on to
George Reid’s tail. And George’s Tail will be
Soaped. A month ago Lyne was pressed to
explicitly announce himself on this subject, but he
held back—waiting for another round robin from
the members.
Premier Seddon has a measure before
M. L. Parliament to absolutely prohibit the coupon
fiend. He recognises that the coupon man is only
one more unproductive middleman who must live
somehow on the producer, and one more exponent
of the great fake of existing without doing any
useful work. The usual .sneer about the Liberal
Government’s restless desire for change doesn’t
apply here. Seddon is conservative for once, and
holds that as our fathers got on well enough with-
out this new middleman we will do the same.
There was much virtuous indignation for
a while in Perth (W.A.) when it was publicly
alleged that the Perth Ice Co., in which some of
the best known magnates of W. A. are shareholders,
had habitually diddled the Railway Department
by despatching cars full of frozen provisions to the
Gold fields as ice—ice being carried at exceptionally
low rates. But the row continued, and at last a
weary and reluctant inquiry results in the
announcement that the co. has done the State
out of £2295. The cable is most particular to
state that the directors are innocent of all
knowledge or complicity, and are as pure as the
whited snowball. It was all done by the Man
who’s Dead, or by some base but enthusiastic
underling still alive and disgracing this earth, on
whom the virtuous wrath of the directors will
presently fall. Nothing is said about prosecution,
but a call is to be made on the shareholders to pay
the deficiency—without interest, it would seem.
The total affirmative vote for the six
federating provinces reached 425,000, the total on
the other side being 1(54,000. Half of the latter
were recorded in N.S.VV. and about one-third in
the urban districts of Sydney and Brisbane. A
quarter-of-a-million majority will satisfy most
people.
There is much unrest in S.A. political
circles, and a coalition between the Country party
and the Opposition is whispered about. Were
such a union effected, Holder would be left in a
severe minority, but the members of his Cabinet
are all alert and well-skilled in the art of “whip-
ping.” Any attack made will be led not by Solo-
mon but by Playford, Glynn, or Homburg.
GOOD COMPANY.
M'KINNON : “ Wecl, M'Nish, I canna' ondcr-
stan' M'Wurrtie. A year syne he never put
his head inside a kirk; and noo he goes tua
times a day.”
M'NISH : “ But d'ye no ken why he's gettin ’ in
M'NISH' that crowd? ”
M'K INNON: “ Na, I canna' tell for the life o' me.”
M'NISH : “ Weel, he's contemplatin' floatin' his
beesness into a company.”
Sam Griffith is, on his federal record, best
entitled of the Judges named to the post of
Federal Chief. He has been frank, bold and con-
sistent throughout. The other Judges dis-
sembled, stabbed in the dark and otherwise played
a backstairs game. Griffith’s legal record is as
good as the best of his competitors. But after all
the man who should be and probably will be
Federal Chief Justice is altogether outside the
little group of Judges—Edmund Barton.
N.S.W. Finance Committee proposes, in
the course of a general cleaning-up, that the recent
war expenditure, as an extraordinary item and one
not liable to recur, should be added to the accumu-
lated deficit and not charged to the year’s revenue !
This is the only point in the Committee’s report
that does not look like plain common-sense.
N.S.W. is still in the Transvaal war, and is just
going into the Chow war; besides, it has declared
over and over again that it is going to carry its
share of the Empire’s burdens hereafter, and
Britain averages one war at least every year. The
war-bill looks like an annual affair, and to put a
regular annual expenditure, or even an expen-
diture which comes along regularly every second
or third year, into the £5,000,000 deficiency is
most immoral financing.
“Falcon,” the
loud Jingo of New-
castle Morning
Herald, states that
the British is a
maritime empire,
and, “apart from
India on the north,
and Canada on the
south, the empire
has not a single
land-frontier. Con-
sequently, the navy
is, and must always
be, the first line of
defence.” This is
surely the record
muddle. India has
four land-frontiers
—the eastern, the
northern, the north-
western, and the
western. Canada
has a north-western
land - frontier to
guard, as well as a
southern. British
Guiana has three
frontiers to guard
against three foreign
States. All the West
African colonies are
in the same boat, and
can be invaded from
French or German
territory. Egypt
runs up against
Abyssinia, Barca,
and Arabia. British E. Africa jostles the
Congo Free State, German territory on the
south, and Italian territory on the N.E. The
S'African colonies march with German posses-
sions on two sides and Portuguese on some others.
Gibraltar has a land-frontier. British Papua is
cheek-bv-jowl with German and Dutch neighbors.
Away in Central America the little colony of
British Honduras has two land-frontiers, and
has been invaded over and over again.
The elections and qualifications com-
mittees, the most partial and inequitable of tri-
bunals. must go. A Supreme Court .Judge should
adjudicate.in disputed elections and not a com-
mittee of party men.
.Caldwell, M.P., is moving i»
S.A. Assembly for the appoint-
ment of a permanent Committee
of Public Accounts, charged with
the duty of annually fixing a cold,
critical eye on the Treasurer’s
balance-sheets, and reporting
to Parliament whether the al-
leged surplus isn’t really a
deficit. The flaw in Caldwell’s
scheme is that he wants the
proposed committee to consist
of politicians instead of expert ac-
countants, thus giving ex-Treasurers
(there are four of them in the Assem-
bly) a chance to get on the committee
and prevent the disinterment of their
own past fakes.
Maoriland Assembly contains some charm-
ing egotists. On opening day of present session
E. M. Smith, of New Plymouth, finished his
speech by quoting six verses in glorification of
labor—the last lines being—“ He is noble who
advances freedom and the cause of man”—and,
then, sweeping the air with his ’orny ’and, Smith
bellowed, “That’s me!” And new member J. H.
Witheford, in moving the Address-in-Reply,
parenthetically observed, “I only mention this
matter to show that if the English people or Eng-
lish Govt, had listened to me, or to Sir George
Grey, all this difficulty in regard to Samoa would
have been prevented.” Poor Hori !
W. Gentry Bingham, the bustling, bald,
bespectacled little man whose tram proposals
turned Adelaide upside-down, has practically
abandoned his scheme owing to Govt, and muni-
cipal opposition. Bingham’s back-stairs “ con-
cession” from Adelaide Corporation would have
been a good thing to sell in London, but the
timely opposition of the Holder Govt, and subur-
ban Councils killed it. Adelaide Council, how-
ever, still refuses to act cordially with the
other councils in forming a Municipal Trust.
The prospects of the latter are unpromising, and
Railways Commissioner Pendleton’s project of
State control will then follow as a matter of
course.
Premier Seddon is going it. He proposes
to raise an “Imperial reserve force” of 10,000
men to be always available either for the defence
of Maoriland or for foreign service, and a further
10,000 for the defence of Maoriland only. The
total expense is to be about £lBO,OOO or £200,000 a
year, which will soon wreck the beautiful surplus.
Still, Seddon is the only logical man among the
seven Premiers. They all filled the country a few
months ago with shouts and elocution about their
resolve to always—always—always stand by
Britain in her wars and troubles. Seddon is the
only man in the crowd who seems to fully remem-
ber these promises and to be resolved to carry
them out regardless of expense.
Opposition-leadei’ Reid is already be-
ginning to make it hot for Premier Lyne in the
latter’s capacity as a federal candidate. “ I
think,” says Reid, “that before the Premier
becomes a candidate (for the House of Represen-
tatives) he should resign the Premiership. In my
opinion, it would place the colony in a very humili-
ating position were the Premier to be a defeated
candidate for the Federal legislature. A man in the
Premier’s position should make up his mind as to
what he intends to do —whether to devote himself
to Federal polities or to those of his own colony.”
Reid says N.S.W. Assembly should be reduced
from 125 members to 80, and that he isn’t sure
that an Upper House is wanted at all. Mean-
while, Premier Lyne is “ a sealed oyster”—says
never a word.
Tasmania’s new Government and House
of Assembly show signs of being half-inclined to do
a wise thing by kicking the outrageous and utterly
useless Great Western Railway syndicate right off
the island, and refusing further negotiations. But
in the whole course of the debate on the subject
not one member raised the real, business-like
aspect of the case, which is this: If a syndicate
professes to be able to build the G.W. line pro-
vided it gets an endowment of about half-a-million
acres, the revenue from which will eke out the
ordinary railway revenue, then the first duty of
the country is to ask its own railway department
if it can’t see its way to build the G.W. line itself
as a payable undertaking, provided the dapart-
ment gets the half-million acres endowment and
throws the revenue derived therefrom into the
earnings of the line. It is admitted that the
department couldn’t make the G.W. line pay
without an endowment. But before the job is
given to a syndicate with an endowment it is-
worth while inquiring if the department couldn’t
also make the line pay handsomely with an endow-
ment and keep the profits for the State.
Re the N.S.W. loaves and fishes. Writes
a wrathful scribe :
The Lyne Govt, is getting a reputation for ingratitude
to its friends and solicitude for its enemies. To have
aided Lyne to office is to have won his studied neglect,
not to mention his incidental contempt. To have hin-
dered him in his efforts to overthrow Reid is to have
secured his best endeavors and his beaming cordiality.
Here is a little list for the edification of Protectionists-
who either perspired or were frost-bitten for him during
a weary period of five years : The Speakership went to "a
Freetrader, the Chairmanship of Committees was given to
a Freetrade-Laborist, the superintendentship of quaran-
tined area (fee, £lO 10s. a day) went to a Freetrade ex-
>l.l,.A. A reporter from the Freetrade D.T. was ap-
pointed to the Agent-General’s office ; another reporter
from same staff is to be appointed to the same London
office ; J. R. Carey (President of the Board of Directors of
the Freetrade Sydney D.T.), is to be President of the
Wharves Resumption Commission ; Varney Parkes, P.M.U.
in the Reid Cabinet, is to be a member of that Commis-
sion ; and last, but not least, a reporter for the Free-
trade D.T. and a reporter for the Freptrnde S.M. Herald
have been appointed assistant-paymasters to the contin-
gent for China, at £6 per week each. Ye gods ! So far,
but two Protectionists have been given posts. Copeland
got the Agent-Generalship, and henchman Sehev, who
was hired by the anti-Federal League to spout against the
Bill, was appointed chairman of the Lahor Advisory
Board, at £3OO a year. Copeland, however, voted with
Reid on the censure motion, and declared he would never
support Lyne as Premier. So Schey is the only exception
to the Lvne policy of helping your enemies to billets and
cold-shouldering your friends.


A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Snlpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Snlpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
Newspapers sometimes stumble into
humor. Adelaide Advertiser (July 31) had these
consecutive sub-heads re the Chinese crisis: “A
Gleam of Hope.” “More Missionaries Mur-
dered.”
In the N.S.W. breach-of promise case
Howell v. Neeld, permission has been given to the
wealthy young Mr. Neeld to appeal to the Privy
Council at the other end of the .vorld against the
(£700) verdict given in favor of Miss Howell.
Truly the system is a Howelling shame.
The recent ly-pr'omulgated new rule per-
mitting N.S.W. law-clerks of 10 years’ standing
(five as managing-clerk) to go up for the final law-
exam. without serving articles and without matri-
culation—is being taken advantage of by, among
others, the following well-known identities:—
Messrs. “Joe” Marks, H. R. Clark (\V. P.
Crick), E. A. Maddocks (Tceton and Faithful)
and Summers (Allen and Allen).
IT’S A FACT.^
W EBBE FI’S
VITADATIO
CURE YOU.
READ THIS TESTIMONIAL.
HEART TROUBLES.
A TRULY WONDERFUL CURE OF RHEUMATISM
AND HEART DISEASE. 12 YEARS’ SUFFERING
CURED 74 YEARS OF AGE, ANI) CURED RY
VITADATIO, THE GREAT HERBAL REMEDY.
19 Gilbert-street, Adelaide,
December 4, 1899.
Mr. S. A. PALMER.
Dear Sir,- Kindly allow me the privilege of letting
you know what VITADATIO has done for me (an old man
74 years of age). For the past 12 years I have been al-
ways ill. One doctor told me I had Rheumatism, another
said I had weakness of the spinal nerve, and still another
doctor said my complaint was heart disease. About eight
months ago I started taking your VITADATIO, and the
result is more than I expected. I feel 20 years vounger.
I have regained health and strength, and feel quite a new
man. V 1 TADATIO has done more for me than words can
express. My advice to anyone suffering is, “ Try what
this wonderful medicine will do for you.” You have my
full permission to publish this testimonial.—Yours faith-
fully, (Signed) S. KNIGHT.
Witness: Wm. Coward, Wilton House, 27 Robert-street,
city.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 5s (id; Small Size, 3s (id.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s Gd.
S. A. PALMER.
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
£3T ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
Missing Friends. ’
AMBROSE ALLEN, alias Robert Watts, last heard of
Snowtown, South Australia. Information concerning
him will b j thankfully received by his anxious parents.
Address, Ambrose Allen, 3 Portland-street, Richmond’.
Victoria.
RECORD ORDER for TYPEWRITERS
121
.. YOSTS
This order has just been given by
Her Majesty’s Government for
Yost Type writers, after the famous
machine had been thoroughly
tested alongside other makes.
St
m
a SSSSIsb
gratis!
»r
ilfiS
ill
This is the Clearest Proof of the Sterling Value of the Yost Typewriter.
The United Typewriter and Supplies Co.,
114 Pitt Street, SYDNEY; 362 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; Barrack Street, PERTH.
Brisbane: Webster & Co. ; Adelaide: Reeves & Co.; Launceston : Hedley Button.
83T Agents also for the NE IF CENTURY and DENSMORE.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE
|OUis’ Velveteen.
WWWWWWWWWWWWW*
t
NOTE WELL!—Each Yard of Genuine “LOUIS” Velveteeni
bears the name (spelled L" , 0"U"l“S * n no other!
way) and is stamped with a guarantee of wear. i
MERCHANTS !
WHY push
“ other fellows’ ” Coupons
When you can PUSH XOUE, OWN
ty using the ....
national Cash Register Coupons
; '
In place of paying the“ other fellow” Five Pounds weekly,
and advertising his business, you can issue your own
Coupons at a next-to-nothing cost !
mli
m
ol •
m
%
% '.V
* Se 4
2£K
SEi
It is a well-known fact that
half the Coupons issued by
the Storekeepers are never
returned.
WHO gets the benefit of this ?
You or the “ other fellow” ?
This is worth your serious
consideration, and it will
pay you to investigate the
NATIONAL
Sash Register
COUPON SYSTEM.
Full particulars on application to • • •
National Cash Register Co.
. 335 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINOHAM, General Manager for Australasia.
/
to
f.'lll'jifo*
®
■No more experimenting with Cheap Grade Cycle Tyres. I’ll-
have DUNL.OPS next time.”
m
FOR
Comfort, Durability, «» Ease of Detachment
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed for 12 months.
Beware of Imitations.
Dunlops are onlv genuine when the cover and tube
are embossed with this
First in 1888. Foremost ever since.
TRADE MARK.
nm
The Dunlop pneumatic Tyre Co. of flue, [td.,
150 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Ciiristohuroh, N.Z.
This is what Burdett-Coutts, British Tory
said he saw with his own eyes at Bloem-
fontein :
There were 316 patients, of whom half were typhoids.
Their condition was almost indescribable. The tents were
bell tents, such as were mentioned in a former letter as
affording sleeping accommodation for from six to eight
orderlies when working and in sound health. In many of
these tents there were ten typhoid cases lying closely-
packed together, the dying against the convalescent, the
man in Ins ‘‘crisis” pressed against the man hastening to
it. There was not room to step between them. Think of
this, you who know the sort of nursing a typhoid patient
requires. With no beds or mattresses, and only 42
stretchers in the whole hospital, it followed that 274
patients had to be on the earth. There was a great
scarcity of blankets, and no patient could have more than
one with a waterproof sheet between his body and the
ground. The ground is hard as stone, and at night the tem-
perature falls to freezing point. Besides other deficiencies
which cannot be described, there were no sheets or pillow-
cases or pretence of bed linen of any kind ; only the
coarse rug grated against the sensitive skin burning with
fever. The heat of these tents in the midday sun was
overpowering, their odours sickening. Men lay with their
faces covered with (lies in black clusters, too weak to raise
a hand to brush them off, trying in vain to dislodge them
by painful twitching of the features. There was no one
to do it for them. Seventeen orderlies had come with, or
been raised for, the half-section of the field hospital; 10
had been taken with it, the number being made up from
the bearer company ; but they had other duties to per-
form than brushing flies off patients’ faces. At night they
were not enough to prevent those in the delirious stage
fronr getting up and wandering about the camp half-
naked in the bitter cold. In one tent, where some slept
and qther lay with eyes open and staring, a case of “ per-
foration ” was groaning out his life, huddled against his
neighbour on the ground. Men had not only to see, but
often to feel, others die.
A few weeks later, according to the story,
heavy rains came, the patients increased to 500,
of whom 300 were typhoid cases, and the
patients “were dying Sin. deep in mud.” For
these 500 there were three doctors, no female
nurses at all, the attendance being left to order-
lies, ignorant of nursing, and some of them only
just .recovered themselves ! And the foregoing
did not apply to only one hospital, as there were
others. It is cabled that Mr. Burdett-Coutts has
since modified his charges against the hospital-
administration, but the foregoing is far too specific
and circumstantial to be effectively withdrawn.
According to rumor, one of South Austra-
lia’s captains at the front in S’Africa has been
court-martialled, one of its lieutenants has been
transferred from his command for “spiritualism,”
and one of its private soldiers has got into serious
trouble for insubordination. There is an air of
mystery about all three stories, concerning which
neither confirmation nor denial can be authorita-
tively obtained locally.
Apropos tile employment of bloodhounds
to hunt the N.S. \V. aboriginal murderers. In
1870 a half-bred bloodhound and a full-bred
spaniel were em-cloyed to find the head of a child
murdered in Blackburn, England, by a barber
name 1 Fish. The latter was suspected by the
police, but no ev dence was available. They had
searched Fish’s premises before without success.
They brought the dogs, and (Fish willing) set
them to work. The spaniel gave tongue up the
chimney in an upstairs room, and, search being
made, the head of the girl was discovered. Fish
confessed,, and was executed.
From a N.S.VV. trooper at the front :
Talking of the starvation our prisoners get ir, gaol at
Pretoria, there is a nice comparison between them and
the Boers as prisoners with us. There are a lot of them
here in hospital, wounded and fever cases, and they get
anything they like to ask for, it does not matter what it
is ; and you may not believe it, but I have heard a con-
valescent Boer ask for champagne to drink, and got it,
too. In fact, there is nothing they ask for that is not
given them. The other day a Boer asked an orderly to
get him some ice for his drinks, and because the orderly
did not run away at once (being busy) the Boer called
him up and said, “ Englishman no good ! ” Whereupon
the orderly spat in his face, and is now doing three
months’ confinement to barracks, and the Boer is in hos-
pital eating roast chicken and drinking stout at the ex-
pense of Govt. The Boers are treated just as well at St.
Helena, and have the best of food served out, the only
restriction being that they have to cook it themselves. I
would like to have my way with them—l would flog them
for breakfast, dinner, and tea. It is not like as if they
were soldiers ; they are no good unless firing from a cave
or out of a trench, and when they are rooted out they run
to the next hole and do likewise. Their masterpiece is
ill-treating wounded soldiers, and s arving prisoners.
You know, I am speaking of the majority—there may be
a few good ones, but they are few and far between.
Barrister Purves struck a bad snag the other
day when he tried to take change out of the irre-
pressible Randolph Bedford in the witness-box.
After receiving a dozen hot counters, Purves de-
manded : “Do you use slang?” “Certainly,”
replied Bedford. “ Then,” said Purves, with an
air of triumph, “ use modest and becoming Eng-
lish while you are in the witness-box.” “ Only
too happy,” retorted Bedford, “if you think you
can understand me.”


Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
($*
&
a
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
□NT.S.-W.
|||ont deplete L Go., ttd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
*7 A CASTLEREAGH ST. f 74
' SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
¥ Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIQH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
GEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
Ocean
A ccident
and
Guarantee
Co. TJd. o/ Condon.
Fidelity Guarantees. limp. Lialpity,
Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, etc.
W. M'Mili.an, M.P., A. W. Meeks, J.P., Directors.
Adelaide :E. H. Peachey, L. A. Jessop, Director. Mel-
Ijourne, D. Clyne ; Brisliane, J. C. Hassall ; Perth, A. W
Karquiiar. J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in Australia
STUART St GO.
* PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 ni ees of Woollens to select from.
°
Our Suit to order at 42s
is marvellous value, made
from all-wo"l Tweeds. Vi-
cunas, or Series, fast colors
is perfect fitting and beau-
tifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order
from any class of material.
£3 .Ts. To measure, capital
Tr- users. v< ry good pat-
terns, l2s. Gd.
Dress Suits to measure,
£5. i'lerica Suits, to mea-
sure, £.».
Hid ng Breeches. 255.
Riding Habits. &c.
We supply ready-made
Men’s Capital Tweed Suits
215., 25s
. Famous Ballarat Serge
) uits, Indigo dye, 255.
Lonj' Chesterfield Coats
all colors. 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Serge
Trousers, ss. 1 Id.
All-wool Blue and Black
Vicuna Coats and Vests,
19s Gd,
Tweed Overcoats. 21s.
Waterproof Coats, full
capes 15s. 9d. Undressed
White Shirts, linen fronts
and cuffs. 2s. Gd., 3s. Gd.
4s. Gd.. ss. Gd
Heavy Warm Travelling
Rugs lOs Gd., 13s. 9d.
All-wool Crimean Shirts,
ss. Gd., Is. Gd. Travelling
Trunks, Bags in great
variety. Soft Alpine Hats,
4s. Gd., all colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. 6d.
Caps. Is.
Merino Undershirts or
Fant* Is 9d.
Neckties, a'l shapes ami colors, Is. White shirts to measure.’
Gents’ Splendid Balmoral Boots. 6s, 9d., 9s. 6d.
We like to write letters, so don’t be afraid to for any
information. Our book. “The Philosophy of Dress.” and
patterns of all kinds and self-measurement forms posted free
Write for them.
AM.USKMKNX for OLD and, lOUMG.
Wonderful Value—a Packet of Seven Different Articles,
comprising One Performing Skeleton, Book of Conjuring
Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which .causes roars of laughter),
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket and
blow n out to life-size, to the astonishment of all), Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of vour character, very superior,
for parlor entertainments), Wizard Pack of Cards (can be
changed as you please, instructions enclosed), Magic
Photograph (your likeness taken instantaneously, direc-
tions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
X
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
716*4 and 718 George-street, SYDNEY.
H. T,. HUTCHINSON. Alnnawr
n
FRINGES,
Natural Corly. from S/6 each.
PLAITS and TAILS,
rOln. long, ryli, all real hair.
cuttings & com linos
worlted tip, i/6 per oz.
We are the eheapeStin Ao»
trails for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
w. H.^figzeil,
IIOWrLUAU Street,
corner of Palmer-street,
SYDNEY.
Coble Tram will stop at Door.
Seed stamps for full Price UeV
V A
«£6gggeQ etaa to Gogiitff
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Saturday, Aug. 11, 12 Noon.
[ Gabo, Saturday, Aug. 18,12 Noon.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Steamer early.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
.Peregrine, Sat., Aug. 11,12 Noon.
Konoowarra, Tues., Aug. It, 5 p.m.
Leura, Sat., Aug. 18, 12 Noon.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., Aug. 11, 12 Noon.
Leura, Saturday, Aug. 18, 12 Noon.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Gowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest. Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Com- ies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves —Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tbe TrGstccs, €*€ctitorS,
AND
AgtOCy Conjpaoy Limited,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts,
and Clients, 31st December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq. ; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BOItROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government, .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government, .. .. 600,000
Amount of Capital payable by Shareholders 600,000
Total Capital .. .. £3,000,000
Queensland Smelting jjompg.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TDUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, apply to GEO. V. S. DUNN, Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
file Bank of Horth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... 250,000 ... £350,000
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. £4.800,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4 ’OOl . £3,196,353 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P. ; Hon. W. It. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon. N. .Thornier, M.L.C.
General Manager: Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Chief Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager : Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 lii.shops(/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES!
SYDNEY - 273 GUOItGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford (with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
WICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
* DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on the SECOND MONDAY in each month for
MORTGAGE BONDS, bearing interest at THREE per
cent. Tender forms and conditions supplied at all
SAVINGS BANKS in Victoria.
GEO. E. .EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
'—THE—,
Colonial Mutual I.ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices - - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Bruch Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,474,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358,325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—eauitably distributed.
Head Office :
119 & 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.LA., General Manager.
Shipping
WHITE STAR LINE.
(Ismay, Imrie & Co., Liverpool.
STEAM TO LONDON, ANTWERP, and LIVERPOOL
Via CAPETOWN,
Calling at Melbourne, Adelaide and Albany.
The fine new Twin-screw Steamers of this line will leave
Sydney as under, viz. :
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail 7th September.
And will be followed at suitable intervals by the
MEDIC, AFRIC, RUNIC, and SUEVIC.
The attention of the travelling public and shippers
generally is drawn to the splendid equipment of these
vessels.
Passenger accommodation is for Third-class only, and
consists of two-berth and four-berth cabins and open
berths, with reading-room, smoking-room, and a dining
room occupying whole width of ship.
The dietary scale is of the most liberal character.
Surgeon and Matron carried. Electric light throughout
For rates of freight, passage money, &c., apply to
Dalgety & Company, Ltd.,
Agents, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
JgN GLAND
VIA
by the
AMERIO A
American & Australian Line
CA. & A. LINE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
MOANA
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
Tons.
Leave
Sydney
at 1 p.m.
Leave
Auckland.
Arrive ab
San
Francisco,
4000 August 29 Sept. 3 Sept. 21
3158 Sept. 26 October 1 October 19
3158 Oct. 24 Oct. 29 November 16
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
all other information, apply Union Steam Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, Gcnrge Slreet,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N.D.L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, Southamp-
ton, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Steamer.
*P. R. LUITPOLD
GERA
KARLSRUHE ...
*KONIGIN LUISE
DARMSTADT ...
BARBAROSSA ...
Tons Commander. laide,
11 a - m - 2 p.m.
Walter ... Aug. 25 Sept. 1
5005 C. von Borell Sep. 22 Sept. 29
5057 O. Oesselmann Oct. 20 Oct. 27
10566 M. Eichel ...Nov. 17 Nov. 24
5012 C. Dewers . Dec. 1 Dec. 8
10769 F. Mentz ...iDec. 15 Dec. 22
TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFT'"' SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW GUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
And regularly thereafter every six weeks.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney. •
NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD
Business Announcements.
P€RCY PHILLIPS,
legal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING-, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
ni yw//\
Weak
Men,
There is nothing like ELECTRICITY to put life, vim
or vigor into weak men or women. Drugs give but
temporary relief; act merely as a stimulant, but Elec-
tricity flies to all weak parts of the body, imparting
Nature’s force thereto and doing the required work surely
and in a permanent manner. If “ run down ”in health
and strength you had better try Electricity. Use an
Electric Belt, for that is the best method of applying it;
but be sure you get a good one while you are about it;
in short, try “ Dr. Pierce’s,” for it is guaranteed to be the
best Electric Belt on earth.
“ Booklet No. 2,” sent by mail for a stamp, tells
all about it. Address
PIERCE ELECTRIC CO.,
620 Market Street, SAN FRANCISCO, U.S.A., or
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
W. H. SOUL & CO., Agents.
Publishers’ Notices.
WAR music FREE!
Full 2s. Size Copyright Music Given Away.
The following New Popular Marches are given away Free:
Transvaal March, with Portrait of Buller.
Scarlet and Blue ~ ~ ~ Kitchener.
MacDonald ~ ~ „ MacDonald.
Sons of the Empire ~ „ Colonial Heroes.
Pratt’s Chart of Chords Teaches Piano or Orgar
Playing in One Day. A Complete Self-Instructor, en-
abling brilliant accompaniments to be played without difli
culty to any song. The Simplest and most Comprehensive
Chart Published. Endorsed by teachers and musicians.
FEES
The Price of Pratt’s Chart alone is 55., but to
introduce it into every home we will sen
Free the Giant Album of 184 Songs, words and music, con
taining many old and new favourites, together with the Chart
for only 2s. 6d.; posted, 2s. Bd.; stamps, 2d. extra. Add two
extra stamps for extra postage and pocking if you want any of
the above Marches Free. Add exchange to postal notes.
Anglo-American Publishing Co., 458 George Street.
Sydney, N.S.W. Mention this paper when writing.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhipping-at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
S.S. Cintra, Friday,
August 10.
S.S. Wollowra, Saturday,
August 11.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
I S.S. Rockton, Friday,
[ August 10.
/test and Cheapest Ttoute to Gold,fields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and W. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W.A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A. U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOWN MAIL LlNE—Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS—Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURIvETOWN—Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly.
Passenger Aecornrnodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application.
For Adelaide and W. Australia all tickets are inter-
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows :
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) betvveen intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Mari-
times Steamers having* room. Particulars on application
to Mr. EDWARD TRELAWNY, Superintendent in Aua-
traha, Exchange Corner, Pilt and Bridge Streets.
Huddart, Parker & (Jo’s [ine
—TO—
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, and JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United:
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
. _ . _ 37 Pitt-street, Sydney.
IDlluiraith,fn‘Eacharn&|o.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
( For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotat ions, apply ’
M'ilwraith, M’Eacharn & Co. P cprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
. _ SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS
Steamers of 6700 tons, under Postal Contract with t
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE AD
LAIDE, ALBAN Y, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAI
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :
Steamer
Com- I Sydney, | ,
mander. : Noon. I bourne,
1 I p.m.
Ade-
laide,
1 p. m.
Sept.
Oct.
1 Nov.
V.DELAGIOTAT Riquier Sept. 3 Sept.
POLYNESIEN Chevalier Oct. 1 Oct
ARM AND BE- Le Cois-
HIC __ i pellier [Oct. 29 Nov.
PASSENGERS booked to Bombav, India Chi
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY. £25 to P
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES KNOTT
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters nr
the passengers for London and give them every assistar
m landing andpassing their luggage through the Custoi
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Int
colonial Ports are available for return by P and
and Orient steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offio
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydnev.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent


RASSMUSSEN’S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
mn
FOR THE BLOQD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALF ALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
"Me Blood Pills
will cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely' Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALF ALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Diver and Kidney Complaints, CostivenesS,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, ~ ONE SHILLING.
Alfaline Universal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
TO BE GIVEN
AWAYJFREE,
THE ALFALINE
GUIDE TO HEALTH
This FREE BOOK
contains a vast fund i
of most useful and
interesting informa-
tion, as well as nu-
merous Testimonials i
from cured and j
grateful patrons, '
with full particulars ;
necessary for self- J
cure, and all details j
regarding the scope J
of the Alfaline
Remedies. ’
Sent Post Pree
. . . and . . .
in Plain Cover.
/V
S 3
k
Wm
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
IMPORTANT
■. WARNING
Herr Rassmussen
anyone of imitating the
AlJaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALF ALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ADL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr RaSSIHUSSeiIj
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
APVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RtISSHIUSSeiI.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-Guaranterd to cure
Rheumatism, Gout., Sciatica amt Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., Os., 125., arid 235. Gd. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills-a Wonder-
ful Remedy for i oughs, Colds, i oiisuinption, bronchitis,,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders-A harmless
but, most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in tire return of Youthful appearance
but also Yu comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets—An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter bow caused. Is. per
packet. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder Builds up
aiid Strength.ns toe S.\ stein, improves the figure and,
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6-. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifisr —A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wo derful f ir Beautifying t ie Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alialine Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing tire Hair turning grey
and falling off. and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant.beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6-.
Al r aline Worm Powders—Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in C.iildren and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil—Superior to any other
for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes—Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, Is;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Cora Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions, bottles. Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder—Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder—Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment—Boxes, Is. and 2s.
Eleitrlc 3ilt3 Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidnev Affections ; 425: and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfa ini E.ectrii Suspender Bandage This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Harr ftassnwssen 3 Head Office 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Bill SB AN E : 100 Queen-street (near Creek-street),
MELBOUBJNE : 150 BdiirJce-street (opp. Eastern Markets),
ADELAIDE: 134 Bundle-street (near York Hotel),
7yr z 7. WELLANfIION . : 91 Lambton Quay.
BEItTH : Hay-street (opposite IFiedenbarh's),
KAIjGOO It LIE ; Hannnn-street (next Lintlell's).
BOULDER CITY : Piesse-street.
FREMANTLE \ Henry-street.
The N.S.W. Federal Electorates Commis-
sioners have announced that it is intended to give
the new electorates native-Australian names; but
the supply of short, euphonious and pronounceable
words is unequal to the demand. Suggestions are
hereby asked for.
From letter of a member of the Imperial
Bushmen’s contingent
The British Yeomanry we have seen are a bright lot!
Tliev were sent away from here (Beira) because both
officers and men used to run the town all night. They
had th ' job some of our men are on —looking after a mob
of about 1500 Hungarian ponies, running loosepn a pad-
dock These nags stampede regularly every night, and
charge about like fiends. Every time they did so the
Yeomanrv officers used to fall out of their tents, slim up
thp nearest trees, and request their men to “keep cool
an ! stop the rushes.” The best lot were the Scotch
sharpshooters—a mob of brawny . porridge-eaters, m very
b i<i"> v p mts None of the Britishers we have yet seen
can Tide anything but* a riding-horse. The Scotch gents
were positively awful. The offhand way they would
mount a horse barebacked, attempt to ride off, leading
four or five others, fall off and be walked on by every
h o rse in turn, then get'up and do the same again—gained
them the admiration of us all. They were an absolutely
irresponsibl-• lot. and everyone seemed to be a boss of some
sort • but they were good stuff, and as plucky as bull-ants.
Th" Maorilatid Rough Riders are a warm lot—absolutely
undisciplined, and for the most part exceedingly “ rough
rider i indeed. There are strict orders against the men
Woihg into Beira at night, but the M.L. men “break
camp ”by the dozen. The other night about 20 of them,
in various stages of drunk, were returning, and when near
the entrance held a council of war to decide on the best
plan ot action. Result, the party lined up in column of
route, with a not-too-drunk sergeant in conunand and
soberest warriors on the flanks, and marched boldly up to
the guard. “ Halt! who goes there ? challenged the
senttw. “ Picquet, N.S.W. Bushmen,” replied the beery
sergeant, and he was .passed in all right in the dark. A
little further on the M.L. adjutant came out and blocked
them, getting the same answer. “Oh ! I beg your par-
don ” said he ; “ I thought you were some of my own
men who had broken camp.” “Broken camp, be
a a: ” replied the brilliant non.-com. Squad, quick
march ! ” and he marched the men away to their tents.
3ut the show was given away by a corporal m the belli-
cose stage of drink, who went back to assure the adjutant
that they w&ve- N.S.W. Bushmen, and that they could
fight a paddockful of Maorilanders.
YOU
LEG
%vilh Wounds : hat Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
round, d with inflammation and swollen that when you
nre-8 your finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
sion ? If so, under the skin you have poison that defies all
tiie remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
you. Perhaps your knees are swollen, the joints being
ulcerated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
may be discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
if allowed to continue will deprive you of the power to
i ° u . lna y have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
?° Sl, bmit to amputation ; but do not, for I CAN
►V Kt V OIL * don’t say perhaps ; but I "WILL. Because
others have failed is no reason for not now being cured,
bend at once for
ALBERT’S GRASSHOPPER. OINTMENT and FILLS,
wliich are a certain reitl.edy.fQr the cure of Bad Legs,
Housemaid s Knee, Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
tiaiuls, 1 umours, Abscesses, Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Buiuons, aud Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores,
r* Britain, I/lJd. per b>x. Prepared by.
Ai BMa, *3, .larringdon-street, London, England:
Agents ; ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney. Purchasers should
look for the registered trade mark of the Grasshopper on a
g.ceu la. eion each box. (Regd. copyright).
Medical.
WNAT IS CATARRH ?
m
M EDICATOrt.
CATARRH is inflammation of the
lining membrane of the nose
and adjoining 1 passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skull. The putrid
discharge passing' through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma, Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Non?? Catarrf) CGrc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
STABLES, KENNELS, CLOSETS, COW-SHEDS,
REFUSE HEAPS, &c., should be regularly dis-
infected with
CALVERT’S
15 per Cent.
CARBOLIC POWDER,
To destroy Bad Odours, and to Kill or
keep away Insects.
The most Effective Preparation.
In Jib., lib., and 21b. tin dredgers, at 6d., 1/- and 1/6
each (English rates).
Beware of Inferior Imitations.
F. 0. Calvert & Go., Manchester.
ASTHMA CURE
fSPiwiA' 'LT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs,' Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AULT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Do Not Seek Assistance
From New # Untried Sources
but of the Old, Well Tried, and Reliable
The Renowned CURE
for Drunkenness. Can
be given Secretly or
otherwise. Book, and
Particulars Free.__^
EUCRASy
Address orcall on The Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney
or 271 Collins-street, Melbourne, Vic.
Medical.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
(THLOROPYHE
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BHOUCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr. J.COLLIS BROWNC.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ot
Sept. 28, 1895, saya:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
30 Days’ Trial.
v:
m
'•V
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
A RELIANCES
a trial of 30 days before
payment, which’ is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing:, we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES,
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address :
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Stkekt, SYDNEY.
nm
n
r Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
/ Proprietor STEP HEN GREEN,
/ 210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
/Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
/ Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders,
should send to
SAYERS, ALURORT .& POTTER, SYDNEY,
for my Invaluable little pamphlet.
Medical.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering-
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
the knowledge of the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
never fails. Pamphlet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASV COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY;
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
I Cure Pits
You are
not asked
0 to spend
any money to test whether my
remedy does or does not cure
Fits, Epilepsy, St. Vitus’ Dance,
&c. AH you are asked to do is to
send fora FREE bottleof medi=
cine and to try it. I am quite
prepared to abide by the result.
A Valuable and Safe Remedy.
APPROVED BY THE MEDICAL PROFESSION.
H.G.ROOT,sB, Endslcigh Gdns., LONDON
HEALTH AMP STRENGTH
" ' may be secured without inconvenience by taking
Dr. HOPE’S LIFE SYRUP. Its effects are almost
instantaneous, and the good effects go on increasing from
day to day. Are you a. Sufferer from bad health
in any of its many forms ? Do you feel nervous, fretful,
timid, and lack the power of will and action ? Are you
subject to loss of memory, broken sleep, feel listless,
moping, and subject to fits of melancholy ? Are your
kidneys, stomach, urinary organs, liver or blood in a
disordered condition ? Do' you feel generally debilitated ?
Do you suffer from rheumatism, neuralgia, or other aches
and pains ?
The Life Syrup Will Cure You.
Restores the shattered constitution to vigorous
manhood.
A treatise on the Brain and Nerves, showing how dis-
orders are cured, and in many cases by diet alone, posted
six stamps. Address : —HOPE MEDICINE CO., 145
Collins-street, MELBOURNE. P.O. Box 405 Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE. HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Address—MALlNC REMEDY CO.,
38 Elizabeth-street, SYDNEY.
mn
DEAF
m
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
ICompletely overcome Deafness
land Head Noises, no matter of
■how long standing. Are the same
'to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
M. NAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne


THE EASY RUNNING MASSEY-HARRIS
is a perfect Bicycle at a fair price,
and the best at anv price.
I! | Factories-Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide
' I Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted free on application. | |
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 886 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
Wake up! You are an energetic man—an
ambitious one. But it is hard to get up in the
morning. You feel that you could just take one
more nap, and still more.
Your head is heavy. You
hate to get up. Your
mouth tastes bad. Your
breakfast does not suit,
and you
are irri-
table.
When
you go to
work you
don’t feel
like it.
You fight
the feeling
all day,
and a
couple o f
hours be-
fore cl os-
(CMml
ing time you turn in and work like a good fellow.
When it is time to stop, you are just warmed up
for a good day’s work. But it is too late, and the
next morning it is the same thing over again.
That is not laziness, it is sickness—real, serious
sickness—and later will develop into something
worse—liver trouble, blood disease or nervous
prostration. There is a remedy that will put
you on your feet—Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. They will wake up your stomach, give
you an appetite, put life in your liver, a move
to your bowels, and give you blood that is pure,
rich and red. “ For the past twelve months I
have suffered from impurities in the blood,”
writes Mr. T. J. Cummins, of Wangarrata,
Vic., “which manifested itself in blotchy
pimples, causing me great inconvenience, and at
times pain. About five weeks ago I commenced
to use Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and am
pleased to say that the pimples have quite disap-
peared, and my general health has much im-
proved. 1 attribute this to their blood purifying
qualities, and would advise all so affected to give
them a trial.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
stand alone as a perfect blood purifier, and posi-
tively cure biliousness, indigestion, dyspepsia,
headache, sallow complexion liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples blotches. Price, Is l|d
per bottle, or six bottles Os (id. Sole proprietors,
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Australasian
Depot), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. They are packed
in amber bottles, and the full name blown thereon.*
There is something in the suggestion that
the inaugurating ceremony of the Australian
Commonwealth should take place at Parramatta
(N.S. W.), inasmuch as Government House, Parra-
matta, was the residence of the last Governor
before the division into provinces took place. The
office of Governor-General may be said to have
died out at Parramatta, and those who yearn after
the historic fitness of things would like to see it
revived there.
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY, ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO.,
Tdpnl Tttva Pnir RICHMOND, VICTORIA.
AUCcU xyre V,Oy., and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z*
DED BIRD BICYCLES
A:Rg all the RA.G-E
KARL CREELMAN . . .
wlio is riding a RED BIRD
round the world, leaves
Australia this week for
China, taking his RED
BIRD to the front with
him. He says : “ The Red
Bird is just all right. I’ve
ridden mine 8600 miles
now without an accident."
n
. . Prof. OLAF SCHRADER
the Tramp Cyclist and Trick
Eider, now drawing- packed
houses nightly to the Tivoli,
says: “ I use a RED BIRD
for my difficult feats, be-
cause I want to feel my neck
is safe. The RED BIRD
stands more knocking about
than any other bicycle."
Tel.
3160.
THE 600LD BICYCLE CO. LTD.
64 KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The G.N. Hurdle Race afc Caulfield fell to a
kindly-handicapped horse in Redeemer, who wore down
the uncertain Beau Brummel in the last 50vds., and won
by more than a length. Redeemer, six months ago, was
reckoned about the best of the moderate lot of hurdlers
in training. He lost “ form,” or perhaps he isn’t built for
weight-carrying, and, as the result of several feeble shows
in public, he got into the Caulfield event at 10.12. Re-
deemer’s starting-price (12 to 1) last Saturday was a
“ straight-tip ” for the public, all things considered, con-
sequently the public got on it to some extent. And, see-
ing that two out of the next three races were taken by
warm favorites, Ikey Mo presumably had a rather bad
day. Ikey, however, will probably get his money back
next Saturday. The Steeplechase is more than likely to
produce a surprise ; not an astounding “ turn-up ’’—for,
after the experience of the recent Flemington meeting,
there will be no very despised outsiders—but a victory of
the kind that casts a gloom over the proceedings.
* • • •
Veteran 13-year-old Paris gave punters a shock
in Warwick Handicap, Saturday, as he went prreat g*uns
ahead of everything for about a mile, but afterwards re-
lieved the tension by falling back. 50 to 1 was offered
against the ancient before lining up, with no takers, but
in the running he was rushed by several of the clever
brigade, and at a much shorter price.
* * * •
Lemonade sprung a surprise on most people by
easily annexing Warwick Farm Hurdles on Saturday. He
could have beaten Onez at Canterbury when latter" raced
there recently. Present owner, Gollan, bought Lemonade
from a Melh. serated-water man, who dubbed every nag
he had after one of his decoctions. Worth mentioning, as
evidence of how things are done by Sydney “shops”;
Gollan, wanting to back his nag on Friday, saw tens up
and distributed a tenner amongst a few friends to take
the odds simultaneously at different places. But Ikey
was too cute—one operation (£2O to 2) started ’phones,
and down came figures to sixes and fives everywhere.
The marvellously quick and effective manner in which
the system worked staggered those putting on the com-
mission. Shop Mo’s, have evidently leagued to give the
punter no hope whatever. Evidently the only way is to
have, say, ten agents with their watches timed to a frac-
tion of a second, let them rush into one shop each at
exactly the same second and put the tnonev on. and then
leave ten Mo's, ringing each other up simultaneously.
The Melh. and Caulfield Cup double, Sagacity
and Lancaster, has been backed by the “ right ” party to
win over £40,000.
* * * *
Vic. trainer, "Brewer (just out from *Ome), inter-
viewed, says Yankee riders are thick “down under,"
and being boomed at a great rate ; they include some that
would have to beg for mounts here. English nags have
great pace over short distances, but thev lack stamina.
Had a lot of trouble with The Grafter, gettingJiim ready.
Oxy’s representative and immediate friends made Syerla
favorite for City and Suburban, and former, though told
to put a hundred on The Grafter, refused. Brewer won’t
have English methods of training, and says the volume of
English betting is greatly exaggerated—biggest books
only bet “ mugs’ ” prices.
* » • •
For the racing season concluded 31st -Tnlv, 1000,
the appended list shows all successful registered N.S.W.
jockeys in their respective order Steve Callinan, 49
wins; F. Kuhn, 32; L. Kuhn, 32; A. Quinn, 29; W.
Curran, 25; 0. M. Godby, 19; E. Cleal, 1,. Want, IS
each ; S. Tucker, 17 ; H. Laycock, 10 ; W. H. Smith 15 ;
J. Barden, 14; J. Sixsmith, 13; ,J. Hartigan. T. Johnson,
C. Parker, P. Regan, T. VVoodgate, 12 each ; H. Cook. J.
Callinan, W. Delaney, 9 each ; M. Cherry, G. Champion,
J. Gilmore, A. Henkel, P. Marsden, 8 each ; ,J. M’Gee, J.
Phoenix, 7 each ; J. Brooks, L. Bushel], J. Chevalley,’ 11.
Freeland, A. Luckman, T. Nerriker, 6 each ; J. H. Gor-
man, M. Harris, E. Humphries, H. J. Moran, D. Morgan, A.
Richardson, F. Simmons, J. Walker, B. Whallev, E. Yeo-
mans, 5 each ; H. Farrel, W. Gilmore, A. Gorman, 4 each ;
R. Brennan, S. 11. Bennett, W. Burke. E. Courtnev, J.
Duval, D. Edwards, H. J. Gardiner, C. T. D. Godby John
Gough, F. Hickey, E. Huxley, J. M'Hugh, W. M‘Great, 3
each ; W. Bennett, T. Clavton, E. Cunningham, J. A.
Delaney. P. Fielder, C. Grovenor, T. Hardiman, J. Hutton,
W. Leadbeater, H. B. M Lachlan, J. M‘Mahon, R.
M'Nally, G. Osborne, G. Phillips, W. Wright, 2 each ; R.
Bailie, W. Cook, J. Crothers, C. Cullen, C. A. Deane, P.
Fallon, J. Fewings, J. Gainsford, H. Giltinan, P. Harris,
J. T. Hawley, J. Henry, J. Mon gomerv, W. MTnnes, M.
M'Kenna, S. M‘Mahon, J. A. M’Farlane. A. Smyth, It.
Steenson, and R. Wright, one each.
• * * •
W. Burn heads the list of winning jockeys in
Victoria for the past racing season with 43 wins ; J. S.
Newton (40) being second, and W. Ross (35) third.
* * ♦ *
Over hurdles and steeples during the season
ended last Tuesday T. Curtin, with 18 wins, leads in Vic-
toria ; while P. Regan is first in N.S.W. with 12 wins.
* * * ,
Poor Alf. Joseph has gone where the good
bookmakers go, and the caricaturists and irreverent para-
graphists cease from troubling. He didn’t own up to
being older than 50, but whatever his age the sudden
death of that enthusiastic Australian identity (which hap-
pened in London) had been spoken of as a likely event by
most people, who noted his short neck and unhealthy
adiposity. Alf. Joseph was an exceptionally soft-looking
bookmaker, in a physical sense, and he gave one the im-
pression that his fatness was incurable. Two years ago
he got into a bad way, and took a trip to Maoriland, fear-
ing that he would never get back to his old haunts. Alf.
was too rich to take a philosophic view of life. Probably
he will prove to have been a quarter-millionaire, or there-
abouts, and as he leaves only a widow to his name, and
was a quite sincere admirer of his native country, it is ex-
pected that the Melbourne and Bendigo charities will
benefit considerably by his death. Five months ago Alf.
Joseph got a send-off from the Victorian Club, the chair
being taken by J. F. M‘Oarron. Chairman and guest of
the evening have both of them met a sudden death.
♦ * * *
The Prince of Wales has a little gold-mine in
the mare Perdita, dam of his two Derby winners, Persim-
mon and Diamond Jubilee. After the victory of Diamond
Jubilee an American horse-breeder paid £lO,OOO for Sand-
ringham, an older member of the family, which had been
incapacitated from racing by an accident when it was a
2-year-old. At that rate Perdita, for as long as she
remains fruitful, is worth £lO.OOO a year to the owner,
whether her foal proves a successful racer or doesn’t race
at all.
* • • «
The Bulletin lately printed a par. ahout a.
Broken Hill miner who had one leg crushed so much that
it had to be amputated, and who shortly afterwards met-
with another mine accident which smashed both his legs,
—the wooden one and the other one. ‘ A pitying mate
sent for a “ Tattersall’s ” ticket for him, and the other
day second prize in the Silver City Cup sweep came
along. He reckons his luck has changed.
**•- ■ - #
Most talked-of thing in Sydney turf circles just-
now is the manner in which three racecourse persons
were taken down t’other day. One of them (an ex-pug.
who hasn’t figured at the game since the days of Larry
Foley’s VVhite Horse gvm.) rushed behind a crack Rand-
wick trainer and stretched him out in the street— opposite
Tatt’s —with a right swing on back of neck. Trainer got
up and went for pug. so effectively that he carried a big
lopsided jaw home and owns it still. Other two came on
and were dealt with somewhat similarly. Trainer was
complimented on all sides. Proceedings against the
assailants for “ assault in company” were only withdrawn
through strong influence brought to bear and an ample
abject apology published in the city papers.
*****
_ “ Gun ” : Steve Callinan’s feat of riding all
winners at recent Newcastle meeting wasn’t a record.
George Cooper (now dead) “rode the programme” at
Wallsend once. Billy Duggan did likewise at Tamworth.
STEVE GALLINAN, the crank Australian
jockey , who has headed the winning list for
the past two years in N.S.W., and who re-
cently won the WHole programme ( jive events)
at Newcastle.
Ditto Dan Roarty at W. Maitland, but latter was up on
five different nags, while Callinan only had three. At
last Tam worth races, Maitland jock. Steve Tucker ran
second in first event, and got home in five subsequently.
Atop of the lot is the achievement credited to Duggan on
the Macleay (N.S.W.) —five races with the one “ prad,”
Playboy.
* * • •
Sydney Coursing Cup (64-dog stake) finished
Aug. 3, at Belmore, and panned out well. Veteran Rooty
Hill (N.S.W.) courser (Bladon’s)crack Booty got the big
money and 50-guinea trophy. Same owner annexed valuable
N.O.A. Challenge Stakes with Braddon’s Blot in June, and
went over to Melb. last month and, per medium of Booty
and Beeline, gathered in Waterloo Purse and Plate, with
attendant good cheques. “Old Sam” has been too long
at the game, and knows too much about how to get dogs
ready, for the present generation of coursing men. When
anything of his is wound-up, it can always be labelled
“ dangerous.” Those Vic. enthusiasts. Messrs. Kelly
Bros., have often found their dogs opposed to Bladon’s in
finals, and latter has invariably triumphed. Two years
ago, Bladon’s Bogan was left in with Kelly’s Gold'spur.
Latter carried a heap of money—former was unbacked,
yet Bogan won handily. Sydney Cup, last week, saw
Goldspur again figure in a final, but this time Bladou’s
dog was favorite (3 to 1 on), and Kelly’s neglected.
* » * *
Proceedings at late Dungog (N.S.W.) coursing
meet take the bun. A lb-dog stake was run. All but
two nominators held two nominations each and ran same
dog twice. One hound (Blackguard) was successful in
both norns. and carried off first and second money— i.e.,
virtually filled positions of winner and runner-up. Local
paper says, “ Blackguard was hard pressed by Wallace
and Nigger, who both ran three dead-heats with him.”
Inference is that in second ties Blackguard had eight
tussles—three undecideds and a settler—with each. He
must also have engaged in two courses in first tie, and
two in first round, or a total of 12 runs in one daj' !
Rather rough this, if correct, and the sort of thing that
would get the club hauled over the coals were it affiliated
totheN.C.A., but it isn’t. Writer has had years of ex-
perience without having heard of a parallel. ' First round
saw Nigger beaten in one nom. and win in another ; ditto
"Wallace. According to the report, the two last-named
hounds ran seven times each. There were cases of a dog
being slipped in consecutive courses. It looks as if
Blackguard was in every course of the second ties.
* * * »
Crack Maitland pigeon -shot Mr. W. Eales
whose brother lately beat Champion of N.S.W. Massy
(Yass) got away with Sydney Gun Club’s £5 sweep at
Botany t’other day, killing 15 (13 with first barrel) in great
style. Nearest to him was old Bill Beach with 10.
William of Dapto, however, made amends in sweeps same
day, as he divided five and won one right out of eight
contested. Bill is still a big factor in sport and hasn’t by
any means got a bad thing on in this pigeon-shooting
game ; hence his frequent and effective swoops.
* * * *
There was no fight ’tween Mick Dooley and
Bill Doherty at Metropolitan A.C, (Sydney) Monday
night. Paucity of attendance (only about 400, all told)
offered little inducement. Reports that the thing was
“ arranged ” did most of the harm, but pro-
hibitive charges also had some say. Principals
and 'management decided to reduce the tariff
and bring the affair off Friday this week. Writer
would like to wager that there’ll be no fight even
then. Judges didn’t like the match much- ’twas made
in too great a hurry ; besides same pair have
fought so often—four times. “ Championship ” isn’t the
fetching power it was when we had Foleys, Jacksons,
Slavins, Goddards, Griffos, Dawsons, and others contend-
ing. People have been fooled a deal over them lately.
They’d sooner part with thrice the gate-fee to see Oribb
take on somebody who’d stand up to him and mix,it, or
a gory go such as the two country heavy-weights. Ted
Arthurs (Wyalong)and M’Coll (Armidale), will probably
supply next Monday.
• * • *
Cribb, after carrying a maimed thumb about in
;a sling for weeks, is on the job again, and has already
pledged himself to a, still list of contrac s to be got
through before Xmas, when he purposes taking a spell in
ALL. The ball is to be set going with Tot Higgins (Vic.),
then Jim Barron (Sydney), and Jim Deir (Tas.). Later,
Peter Murphy (Melb.) is to come in, and Oct. will see
miner Dan O’Connell and middle-weight first-flighter,
Mick Dunn, engaged. There ought to be little trouble in
disposing of Higgins, old-man Barron, and the much-
whipped Tasmanian, but Murphy, O'Connell, and Dunn—
how Irish the pugs, mostly are ! —are* factors to be
reckoned with, as they don't belong to the common
variety of pug.
* * _ * »
“Old-Timer”: Saw a gory mill at G. Gate
A.O. (Sydney) Sat. night between Tom Hope and coming
“ feather” Frost. Stoush was liberally shovelled out on
both sides, but Hope got a lot more than t’other man, and
stood it as if ’twas nothing. Hope couldn't have looked
worse had he just come from the shambles after a hot
hour’s graft ; so sanguinary a spectacle hasn’t been seen
in Sydney ring for many a day. Frost got home hard on
the “mark ” in sixth term, and put played-out Hope past
rising inside the regulation lOsec. Hope should “chuck”
fighting now and stick to his trade, fruit-growing ; he’s
not clever or quick enough, and is handicapped by a
cronk eye. Both Frost and Hope have met the little
Cape Malay, Tom Essler (misnamed “Kaffir”). Hope
went under twice after a heavy bashing each time, hut
Frost came out on top, albeit Essler protested that it
wasn’t a fair go.
♦ * * *
“Uppercut”: Altogether disagree with recent
eulogy of Mick Dunn. His fight with Preston was
apparently won wholly through the Victorian’s illness,
and those .who had no knowledge of this left the hall
firmly convinced the affair was crooked. Dunn is cer-
tainly clever in avoiding punishment, but he
can’t hit hard enough to dent a pat of butter, and
there wasn’t a man who saw Preston beaten hut would
have taken the little he got for loser’s end of the purse
JVly opinion, based on this victory of Dunn’s, is that he
would have no chance against Preston fit and well, and
that he could not stand up one round to a lighter like Tim
Murphy.
• • * •
“ Sam ”: Was satisfied long ago that Jeffries
battered a heap ol sap out of sailor Sharkey, and latter’s
go with Ruhlin endorses that view. Think Jeffries
suffered, too, otherwise the played-out hack-number,
Corbett, wouldn’t have faced him throughout those 23
rounds. Jackson and Slavin are examples of what two
big men will do to each other. Neither did any good as
a top - rung fighter after that never-to-beJorgotten
struggle of theirs in London years ago. ’Twas said by
some, after the Jeffries-Sharkey affair, that the sailor
went perilously near pegging out.
• * » •
Lookers-on are satisfied that bruiser Otto Cribb
Will never fight another wild and woolly go, and con-
sequently he isn’t likely to be the factor he was in the
biz. He has got to know a bit. That month or so of
training with Tweedie, Felix and co. settled him. His
crude methods and brute strength pulled him through
hitherto, but former are being polished up too much.
Ample evidence of this was shown in the M.L. pug’s last
fight with Sturgeon. Same thing occurred to one-time
man-eater Joe Goddard. The more he got to know about
the clever business of the game the easier prey he became
for clever men. It was Joe’s knack of doing things never
dreamt of, and consequently unlooked for, that stood to
him. Middleweight champion of the provinces, Mick
Dunn, challenged Otto t’other day, but latter didn’t come.
Had he done so, the accuracy of this estimate might have
been demonstrated.
* * * *
“Old-Timer”: U.S. papers say that freckle-
fisted Fitzsimmons means to have another “cut” at
champion-of-the-world Jeffries and agrees to latter’s own
terms—6s per cent, of purse, win or lose—or will let all
go to winner. Says the long, red-headed one in conclu-
sion : “There was something queer about our previous
fight.” fMost judges think so.] “I remember nothing
after round 2 ; the dope (drug) was given me in good
style. In 343 fights I lost one.” Don’t know whether his
fights total so many, but do know he lost two—one with
Jem Hall in Sydney, and that with Jeffries.
“Spike” : When mail news comes ’twill be
found Yankee Pennyslvania ’Varsity man Kraenzlein
cut a wide swathe in the British premiersbips and
Olympian Games last month. He is a hall-marked top-
notcher and has no peer on earth as an all-rounder.
Kraenzlein’s records up to early in June (all, save the
broad-jump are world’s bests):—l2o yds. high hurdle (10
flights) 16 1-5 ; 220 yds. low hurdle (10 flights) 36 3-5 : 50
yds. high hurdle, indooor, (4 flights), 6 sec ; 120 yds. high
hurdle, on turf, (10 flights), 15 3-5 ; running broad jump,
24ft. 4^in.
• * t •
The Barbadoes stunted black demon bruiser,
gorilla Joe Walcott, is looking for a cut at world’s cham-
pion Jeffries. Walcott lately badly beat the tall Choynski,
hence his presumption. There’s nearly s,)st. difference in
the poundage of Jeffries and Walcott and a foot in height
(black stands sft. ljin.), and yet good U.S. judges give
Walcott a chance if the pair get to it. This dwarf pheno-
menon calls sailor Scroggins (mentioned in the annals of
the English P.R.) to mind ; his view was “ the bigger the
man the better the mark.” Certainly “ handsome Joe ”
has done more against big men than those in his own
weight division--f’rinstance several defeats of Dan Oree-
don, Bonnor, one or two others, and Choynski. ’Ome
ring history has a parallel in the match between “ Toff”
Wall (sft. 4in.) and huge Jack Knifton (6ft.), wherein the
little-’un smothered the big-’un.
• * 4 *
Since his wrestling-match with Pag’el, Buttan-
Singh has been a constant attendant at Melb. Victorian
hall fights, and now never misses a night. Several of the
fancy have been trying to persuade Buttan to put ’em on,
but the scion of 5000 years of civilisation simply shakes
his black head and murmurs “ Allah be praised,” or some-
thing equally irrelevant. The chances of getting the
wily Buttan into a ring to fight are not regarded as pro-
mising.
• * * •
Veteran all-round “Tonald” Dinniehad honors
heaped upon him in his native town, Aberdeen (Scotland),
last month. He got a huge silver belt, each link of
which bore an inscription telling of some great feat
accomplished by the old man in one particular branch.
Donald now runs a hash-house after the style of the one
he had in M.L.
» * * •
Cabled death of Lieutenant Ebs worth in
S’Africa, last week, caused deep regret. The dead soldier
was an old King’s School (Sydney-) boy, and, 10 .years ago,
got the School’s Challenge Shield as top-notch runner,
lie put up a School cricket best for speedy scoring—l 22
in 44min. A recent letter told that he had added
181 b. to his weight and been through 24 fights.
* * * *
Late ’Ome papers have much to say abouti
Australian champion sprinter Rowley. In Scotland lie
won his heat of 100yds. event in lOsecs., but in the final
went under to Wood (61yds.) by lyd. Winner’s time
(lOsecs.) would make Rowley do 9 9-10 sec. One Scotch
writer says Rowley is the finest sprinter ever seen in the
country, and another authority insists that he’s as good as
Downer ever was. Compliments couldn’t rise higher.
Great merit of Rowley’s feat lies in the i act that he did it
on a soft grass track, and while rain “ fell in torrents.”
* * * *
S. A.’s fast bowler Jones has just been offered an
engagement by E. Melb. C.C. “Jonah,” now at Broken
Hill, is stated to be wavering between the Melb. offer
and a lease of a B.H. hotel.
• * * *
Although Albert Trott started the season badly
he had taken 100 wickets before the end of last month,
says the cable, so it looks as though he is quite as good as
the best of the English bowlers. Are they a poor lot all
round, judged by the local standard of howling talent, or
was it the improved Australian batting that stopped All
England in the last series of Test matches?
* * * *
Ranji’s batting (at ’Ome) this season up to late
in June was extraordinary. Against Cambridge ’Varsity,
.158 ; Worcester, 36 and 15 not out; Middlesex, 7 ; Oxford
’Varsity, 31 and 15 ; Surrey, 17 ; Gloucester, 97 and 127 ;
Somerset, 122 ; Cambridge ’Varsity, 215 not out ; Notts, 0
and 29 ; Kent, 22 and 192 not out. Aggregate, 1183;
average, 98.58.
• * • •
Cabled last week that Ranji had made his fourth
200 and over in front rank matches during present year,
and has an average of 90.
* * * *
The West Indian cricket team now touring
England has a fast bowler named Richardson, a darkie,
who cannot trundle with his boots on, and, when the mail
left, the S’African war and the Chinese crisis were minor
matters compared with the question of Richardson ex-
posing his colored feet at classic Lords. And will the
umpire decline to respond when the niggah asks him to
kindly hold his boots during the over ?
* * * •
“Stump” : Umpire Phillips published a book
on last year’s cricket in England, and his elaborate figures
show the surprising fact that the Australians scored more
rapidly than the Englishmen, their average of runs per
hour being far ahead of their opponents.
* * * *
Sydney Rugby football struggles advanced
another stage Saturday. North Sydney and Glebe pro-
vided the big draw—only one point separated them. The
severe drubbing that Norths gave Western Suburbs
week before made them favorites, but'a hot game went to
Glebe by 7to 4. Play was fast and clever throughout,
albeit both sides neglected passing. This result renders
the competition more open than it otherwise would have
been. A couple of weeks ago Western Suburbs looked to
own the honors, but the cropper at N. Sydney a fortnight
back, and another (12 to nil) at the hands of E. Suburbs
last Sat. indicate that they may be counted out. Bab-
main is coining in great style, though too late. They beat
S. Sydney 6 to 3. “Unis” whipped Newtown 24 to 8.
Glebe is now top of all three lists—by 1 point in first, 6 in
second, and 7 in third.
* * • *
N.S.W. Cyclists Union (Amateurs) are “not
taking any ” of proposed amalgamation with the totter-
ing League, and said so emphatically by 102 to 67 at a
meeting. Gathering was a notable one; 170 turned up.
Speeches were limited to 10 minutes, and, though many
did not occupy half that time, there were three solid hours
of talk. Arguments in favour were that League, Union,
and Touring Union combined could do infinitely more for
the good of the game than each “on its own.” Those
opposed contended that “well should be left alone. The
Union had stood 16 or 17 years, and still thrived. It was
the only amateur cycling body in the provinces. Prof,
and amateur wheeling organisations, controlled by one
head, had invariably gone under everywhere, because in-
terests were in some respects so opposed ; besides,
Cyclists’ Union couldn’t possibly gain anything, and must
lose a heap by throwing in with the decaying and dis-
credited League.
* * * *
To-morrow (Sunday) world’s cycling supremacies
will be contested at Paris. Australia won’t be represented,
but M.L. has three over there—Sutherland and Reynolds
from the league, and Dransfi'eld “on his own.” Suther-
land should do best. If championships are beyond him
he’ll probably get away with a handicap, but the 50 kilo-
metres premiership may give him a big chance if pace is
good.
* * * *
Sydney Tatt.’s billiard tourney ended Friday
night in a win for metallician “ Paddy ” Bourke (received
95), who put down brother Mo. “ Bili ” Lyons (owed GO).
Lyons was all at sea throughout ami hardly played up to
form once ; besides, Bourke kept “ poking it ” at the old
man, who can't stand banter, especially under such con-
ditions, and Bourke knew it. Winner only had 50 to 10,
and laid the ten servants at Tatt.’s a fiver to nothing
each. Lyons hacked himself to win a “monkey,” and,
like most of us, would have liked to get it, but Bourke,
who is (or wax) a pal, wouldn’t give him a chance to win.
“Old Bill” lias toed the mark in every Tatt.’s tourney
held, and nearly always looked like being there at the
finish, hut has never got home once. Writer has an idea
that Lyons came over from M.L. specially to win this one.
**V * *
Exhibition match Roberts v. Weiss finished in
Sydney, Thursday, last week—Roberts 14.009, Weiss,
13,549, including 4000 start. Principal breaks right
through eight days’ play were : Weiss, 145, 79, 86, 97, 147,
89, 215, 167, 88, 82, 104, 101, 103, 92, 89, 132, 152, 76, 81,
125, 99, 187, 84, 111, 203, 105, 91, 85, 91, 75, 95, 144, 76, 94,
167, 91, 157, 124, 102, 76. Roberts, 95, 81, 129, 109, 136,
202, 89, 157, 84, 124, 113, 171, 117, 80, 240, 103, 156, 159,
126, 100, 91, 138, 133, 153, 199, 89, 131, 162, 198, 500, 263,
94, 128, 100, 124, 186, 251, 88, ISB, 78, 91, 108, 79, 85, 107,
117, 137, 89, 241, 161, 244, 78, 120, 96, 101, 128, 158, 125,
200, 107, 120, 95, 163, 272, 89, 90 (unfinished.)


“Rfter the Ball”
ft
<
3
( WM .«<.
lllm&S
SMOKE
DERDY
TOBACCO.
It is more than a pipe
of peace—lt relieves,
soothes, pleases, and
gratifies
Ask for “DERBY” Tobacco.
The Modern Art Jewellery Co., «7 rm st., Sydney.
mn
THE VERY LATEST
LONDON FASHION.^
Handsome Turquoise and Pearl Set 9ct
Gold Cable Bangles, ‘22s 6d to 50s.
15ct. Turquoise and Pearl Cable Bangles,
50s to £5 15s.
Oct. Plain Gold Cable Bangles, 22s 6d,
30s, 40s.
15ct. Plain Gold Cable Bangles, 57s 6d to
± 5 ss.
We have just received an Extensive and
Varied Assortment per s.s. Omrah of
these Turquoise and Pearl Set Bangles.
The administration of the First Offenders
Act is worth watching. In Brisbane a young
ruffian assaulted his mother and destroyed the
sight of one of her eyes. Sentence suspended
under the F.O.A. If he had killed her he might
have been let off on the same plea, for he might
assert he had only one mother, and had never
killed her before, and might also truthfully plead
he would never do it again.
Gigantic efforts are being made by Bris-
bane authorities to stamp out the plague. T’other
day the house of a plague patient was condemned
to demolition. By day a cleaning gang pulled
down the infected timbers ; by night the neighbors
collared them and carted them off for firewood,
And now the germs are scattered in forty different
directions.
Tile prize cable, printed in Bundaberg (Q.)
Mail
[OUR SPECIAL MESSAGES.]
OBITUARY.
London, Thursday.—The death is announced of Alfred
Josephs of apoplexy at the Hotel Cecil. At the Queen’s
instance the interment of the body at Coburg has been
postponed from Friday to Saturday. The Kaiser, Prince
of Wales, and the Duke of Connaught will attend. The
body lies in state at St. Mortis Church.
Sometimes the N.S.W. Leg. Council
g reduces surprising results. Look at the
hhia-Contingent debate, for instance. There
Was any amount of latent opposition in the
Assembly—had the vote been by ballot Heaven
knows how it would have gone. But only
half-a-dozen members dared to openly oppose the
farce—utter farce it is, sending 250 men to help in
beating down a population of 300,000,000 to
400,000,000. But in the Leg. Council voting was
even, and the Contingent was only sent away by
the “Yes” of the bebaubled President Lackey.
Did the Council for once better represent the
popular sentiment ? Or was it better able to defy
popular sentiment, not having to face the infuri-
ated elector on the hustings ? Or had it more
sense, or more sense of humor ? Or was it afraid
of more land-tax to cover the bill ?
The adjournment of N.S.W. Leg. Assem-
bly on account of the death of the Duke of Saxe-
Coburg and Gotha and the defence of the action by
Premier Lyne were comparable performances in
loyal bathos. The Duke had utterly severed himself
from the Empire—might conceivably have had to
bear arms against it. And Lyne’s defence was
that he would like the House to adjourn at the
death of any member of the House. The history
of the Commons is an emphatic condemnation of
such an opinion. At the death of the distinguished
Cornwall Lewis the Commons adjourned, being
caught unprepared, but next day and for weeks
afterwards Parliamentarians condemned the prac-
tice of adjourning on the death of a member.
Exception has been reluctantly made in the case
of the leader of a party—when, for instance, Sir
Robert Peel died ; but the theory has been always
resolutely held that the death of a member affords
no reason for shutting up Parliament.
The narrow squeak which the motion for
sending 200 men to help quell the Boxer rising in
China had in N.S.W. Leg. Council came as an
electric shock to the Lyne Ministry. Having for-
mally secured the approval of the Assembly, the
Premier looked upon the thing as settled, and this
was partly what riled the Council. But that tie
in the division looks Suspiciously like a “fake.”
Jack Want, Dangar, and Pilcher, all of whom
made long and angry speeches against the motion,
did not wait to vote ! But as an adverse majority
would only have embarrassed the Govt, and made
N.S. Wales look even more ridiculous than it does
already, without preventing the despatch of the
contingent ; the Council —having scared F. B.
Suttor out of his wits and attracted the flagging
attention of a public which is mainly indifferent
to its proceedings—rested content with a dead-
heat.
The attention of all concerned in ear-
marking pliers for sheep and cattle is directed to
the advertisement on page 1 in this issue, of Mr.
W. Jno. Baker, of 3 Hunter-street, Sydney,
whose instruments are made in accordance with
the regulations of the N.S.W. and Queensland
Stock Depts. Mr. Baker makes pliers to any de-
sign required, and sends them post-free to any
Australian province, and as he has a small museum
filled with trophies won at shows and exhibitions,
clients can rely upon getting the best workman-
ship and material.*
A lady writes: —I was so tired that had it not
been for the ever-blessed Scrubb’s Ammonia in
my bath I do not believe I should have been able
to get up till night. It is wonderful stuff, and
would waken the Seven Sleepers, while it is
altogether pleasing, too, in its effect. I believe
it has various advantages besides this one. Once
I took a stain out of a dress of mine with it, a
feat every other condiment had failed to accom-
plish. I remember, too, a friend confided in me
that she owed her fine complexion to its influence
in her hand-basin, but then she used it in combina-
tion with Scrubb’s Antiseptic Skin Soap.*
[JIOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
((
El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - CEO. w. Kt'.'t
rpo CYCLISTS AND CYCLE KJSPAJiUtt&.s . .
X I)®- YOU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINES !
“ IMPERIAL ” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rims and
Dunlops.
“ IMPERIAL ” Special Racers with same fittings.
American 1900 Model Component Cc. 3, complete with
every fitting, all ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze can build a bicycle
of these sets.
“ MORROW ” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Back Pedal
Brake—saves the rider 40 per cent.
Write for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
Sundries, Novelties and Second-hand Wheels. GOOD
AGENTS wanted where not at present represented. Marine
Oil Engines and Launches—particulars and designs. A
post-card will bring you all information of our lines.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney,. N.S.W.
Ivanhoe : More changes in management. The
mechanical engineer has resigned, and Mr. Huntley,
the metallurgist, leaves for Mt. Higgins _ soon.
Huntley, by-the-bye, introduced the agitation-vat
before filter-pressing at Hannan's, and nearly every big
producer on the field has adopted it, the exception being
the Golden Horseshoe, which double-filter-presses instead.
Sutherland, the Golden Horseshoe manager, is the inven-
tor of the filter-press, as far as its application to the
extraction of gold from slimes is concerned. Sutherland
conceived the idea from its use in quite a different direc-
tion at Broken Hill ; mentioned it to Callahan, then
manager, who coincided, and they sent to Germany for a
press. The first three or four sent were practically use-
less—weren’t strong enough to stand the pressure neces-
sary for the new purpose to which they were put ; and it
is "only on account of the improved designs sent by
Sutherland that they were greatly strengthened and
finally perfected. The Germans now crow over their
perfection ; perhaps unaware of the fact that Martin,
of Gawler, has also had the plans, and is turning
out a filter-press quite equal to the best from Germany.
Single filter-pressing without previous agitation was
found a comparative failure and Huntley came to the
rescue with agitating before pressing. If Dr. Diehl, with
his new sulphide process, achieves as great a success as
“ Jack ” Sutherland and young Henley have achieved by
filter-presses and agitation vats, he will deserve a monu-
ment of telluride for his glorification. The writer has his
“ doots,” and very much objects to accepting the result
at Hannan’s Star as any positive criterion. The details
are too indefinite. What became of the concentrates?
Besides, there is little or no telluride in the Hannan’s
Star ore, and a process might be a great success on Kal-
goorlie ores without tellurides and an utter failure on
ores containing them. Writer has more faith in the
system of dry-crushing, roasting, amalgamating in pans,
and, finally, filter-pressing, as adopted by the Great
Boulder and Perseverance, the result of which should be
known next month. The want of roasting, writer is
afraid, will be Dr. Diehl’s great trouble, and the extrac-
tion will not be high enough to stand the cost.
* » • *
B.H. Prop, has paid in dividends £7,072,000
the co. is just 15 years old), and in cash bonuses
£88,000; shareholders received for the British blocks
£576,000 in cash ; and the nominal value of shares in off-
shoot co.’s received by shareholders in the parent was
£1,744,000. The extent of its present business may be
judged by the fact that it had at the end of its half-year
£174,160 cash in hand and at bankers, while its stock-in-
trade was worth £892,266, and its debts amounted to
£201,511. Of its reserve fund of £125,000, £94,837 is on
fixed deposit; the balance is in Metropolitan Board of
Works loans. It has written off £680,000 at various times
for the cost of its plants, which now stand in its books as
worth £359,077.
• • • •
Broken Hill mines employ 7321 men, of whom
4115 work underground and the others in the open cuts
and about the machinery. In addition they employ 2520
at their ore-reducing works at Pt. Pirie, Pt. Adelaide and
Newcastle. The total is 9851 as against 4290 at the end of
1895. Poorer or more refractory ore forces the co.’s to
handle more stuff to make divs. these times. Of the pre-
sent total the B.H. Prop, employs 4444. The Central
(Sulphide Corporation) stands a good second on the list.
According to B.H. Prop, chairman, Harvey
Patterson, the recent all-round rise in prices costs his co.
£40,000 a year; but that is counterbalanced by the rises
in lead and silver. Coke (the co. uses 1000 tons a.week)
has gone up 35 per cent, inside a year. Mr. Patterson,
by the way, has been surprising people by his warm
championship.of the “divining-rod” for the discovery of
reefs of mineral and springs of water. But it is many
years since first he personally practised with it. His
attention was turned to it in the days when he managed
a sheep-station in the droughty far-west of N.S.W. And
he backs tne “ rod,” too, with his money. On Chillagoe
he has taken up most unlikely-looking country because of
the “ sensations ” he got with the “rod” while passing
over it.
But Harvey Patterson is not the only long-
headed Scotch mining man in Australia who firmly believes
in the “ divining rod.” Adelaide has one, who claims to
have located unsuspected veins at Broken Hill and at
White Cliffs opal field. Adelaide’s (and, in fact, Aus-
tralia’s) most enthusiastic and public “ rod ’’-apostle,
though, was the recently-deceased E. H. Derrington, ex-
M- P. ; yet, though he practised with it long enough, it
never led him to wealth.
* * * *
Prices for opal at White Cliffs are still extra-
ordinarily low, and pretty well all the field believes that
a ring is responsible for it, For first-class gems (and
White Cliffs stone has been worth up to £lOO an oz.)
there is still moderate demand, but for even fair stuff
there is no bidding. In the circs., the Govt., which takes
go deep an interest in the price of frozen fowls, might do
worse than instruct someone at ’Ome to inquire if there
has been a corresponding slump in the European opal-
market. But, apart from the price, things are none too
rosy-looking at White Cliffs. Most of the ground
on what is reckoned the best blocks has been
«gouged ” out to the lowest depth at which opal
has been found ; and though the gem is just as likely to
occur on another floor still lower, the opal-field’s universal
system of tributing is dead against any deep prospecting.
Meantime, things being so slack on the field, a violent
effort is being made to promote a local boom in Wertago
copper shows ; but copper-mining, and especially copper-
prospecting, out in the Never-Never isn’t a game that
commends itself to a man with a fortune of under a
“ fiver,” and so the boomsters boom in vain.
•** . *
j n far-western N.S.W. there isn’t another
mineral so well distributed (on the surface, anyway) as
CO pp er . The Barrier is dotted with shows ; many have
p een worked and abandoned as the metal market has been
„ 00( ] or bad, hut mostly, at the best of times, freight has
little profit. The prospects of some, though, have
j )een good enough to attract the Hancocks and other of
the most experienced copper men of S.A. Yet, so far as
wr jt er knows, only one is a producer now—Nadbuck,
which owns a wonderfully solid, though comparatively
gmall, lode of good ore. But even that is being worked
as though the owners were afraid to break the stuff down
and send it to market.
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
. g p re p are( j to purchase or develope, with option of
pllr chase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
nl j n eral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection.*
, * *
T c j
Mr. Mephan Ferguson, Bngmeer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts,nuts,forgings, and all sorts of iron-work.*
* * *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row s Buciiu Bitters.
To be at and Chemists,
* * j-t>i i tn i j
Acting-Manager Grayson, of Block 10, has made
the statement that the increase of ore-freights by S.A.
Govt, has put the further treatment of slimes out of the
question for the present; and 10 per cent, of all the ore
concentrated is turned into slimes,
Cabled that Maharajah Scindia offers for
British troops in China a hospital-ship, to cost
over £130,000. Yet famine is rife in Scindia’s
dominions, and millions of his (11,000,000) subjects
starving !
t» c t i u j
The Review OF REVIEWS lor J uly had on
its cover a sketch (four times repeated) of a China-
man banging a gong, said sketch being stolen
w Ghout acknowledgment from Vincent’s illustra-
tiong of the ]iolldigo Chow carnival published ill
time last vear
I HE JiULLETIK at Raster time last year.
Victoria’s ex-Postmaster-General, the
f r ; vo ] ous ]) u ff y opposed womanhood suffrage and
• , , rupture the hush
voting by post, and started to picture the hush
S6ttler gathering his family round him, watching
them fill in their ballot-papers, and trudging off
to the post with them, discreetly lighting his pipe
on t } lo way with those papers which didn’t sup-
rt v )e t candidate. “He will gather his wife,
his daughters, and his sons,” said Duffy “ his man-
servant and Jus maid-servant ” “And his ox
and his ass, said the flippant and ociipturai
Treasurer Shiels. “ No,” said Duffy, “my non.
f r [ end will 110 t be there.” Shiels might have re-
Ported, “ We’ll both be absent—l’ll be hauling the
dra „ and you’ll -be having some light refreshment
on a 7 thistle", ’’ but he let the matter pass. Probably
it was as well. Ihe man who tries to argue with
Duffy about asses is sure to be left. Duffy is a
fountain-head of knowledge on that subject.
Ttimhmnn Donvbeare well-known in mid-
Bushman Dolly Deare.weil Known in m a
western N.S.W., brother of the S.A. Rabor M.Jr.,
leaves his bones in S’Africa, like so many dozen
more g ood Australians. In his last letter he
wro^o .
We have a ffrea t e r enemy than the Boer to fight against
jj ere . My old friend Bash died from enteric fever, and
there are a lot of our fellows down with it. Many of them
will not get over it, for what with the hard work and the
har( j living, when the poor fellows get enteric fever they
are too weak t 0 g g ht against it, We have been four days
witll no thing but two or three biscuits and coffee, and we
have had a lot of wet weather to contend against. We
had three days’rain last week without stopping. We are
w j t hout tents, and have but one suit of clothes and one
blanket; and when it rains there is about a foot of water
an( j g]ush on fche y roun d, and sleep is well nigh out of the
quest; j on> j am well and cheerful now, but will not be
gorr , r w hen the campaign is over.
They called it enteric at first, because, they said,
people were sq seared °|ffyphjM ; but it doesn’t
matter what they they call it now.
John Roberts.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A good solid name—a good solid stamp of man.
About middle height, thick, fair, fleshy, with hair
and trimmed beard grizzling to grey round the
full-coloured face (the stamp gets defaced by o 3
years’ usage), he sits under a straw hat in the
Hotel Australia, and “ puts ’em up ” for the inter-
viewer with the skill of a champion in constant
practice. Roberts ? The name is nowadays
Welsh;' but the man is of modified Saxon type,
with the Saxon force (this time) directed not
into thews and sinews, but into a big reservoir of
nervous energy stored somewhere under the straw
hat. A forcible personality—as_
world’s billiard champion for 25 years, ‘ the
champion of champions.” And for 25 years John
Roberts’ father was billiard champion before him.
Yes ; there was a person called Cook who spoilt
the symmetry of the family record for a few
months in the mid-seventies: brush him aside;
he is irrelevant. Our challenge stands ; we give
5000 points in 21,000 for £lOOO a-side (with bon-
zolene balls, please); might even make it 5500
to get a match. And we have just beaten \v eiss,
the best Australian player, giving him 4000 in
14,000. And (where the British game is played)
we are champion still.
* » • *
“What’ll you have? (Give me Scotch and
apollinaris, with a slice of lemon, and a drop of
hot water.) No ; I don’t diet myself ; bless you,
I wouldn’t be a slave to the game. Nor exercise
—not deliberately ; get enough walking round the
table. I don’t smoke now ; knocked it off some
years ago ; found it was affecting my eyes. Yes ;
my nerve too, I suppose : it stands to reason,
doesn’t it? I get exercise travelling; travelling
suits me. Thirteen times to India ; half-a-dozen
trips to Johannesburg ; and this is my fourth visit
to Australia —1870, ’7B, ’9O, 1900. This time I’m
going where I’ve never been before —round
Batavia among the Dutchmen, after I’ve filled my
Australian engagements. My wife is with me, of
course ; and all my children are married.
“One son —yes ; but he isn’t a billiardist; won’t
continue an hereditary championship. But I
haven’t let go yet. The next best players? Well,
Dawson, Diggles, Stevenson, and two or three
others are very nearly even ; Dawson a little the
best. Weiss is easily the best in Australia ; and
lie’s not old ; he’ll improve a lot yet. I improved
a lot after I was his age—must have; for the
young fellows have always been coming on and on,
yet I manage to keep ahead somehow. No ; I
don’t feel quite as good as I did ; I’ve lost some of
the confidence, the certainty that I used to have.
What can you expect ?—I was born in ’47. Yet
you see I made a break of 500 the other night
when I got into form.
“ Much in form ! Bless you, there’s everything.
You know how it is in cricket, when a batsman
gets set. He sees the ball as big as a balloon, and
nits it every time. It’s just the same in billiards.
When you’re in form, you feel you can’t miss.
The trouble is playing when you’re out of form—
when you feel you can’t hit. You’ve got to fight
that feeling down—fight yourself down. I bend
my whole mind to it—tell myself I must; and I
do. Then when you’ve done that once you have
more courage ; you know you can do it again.
“ How to succeed in billiards ! Well, if I could
tell you, I’d rather tell it for myself; I could
make a book and get a couple of thousand pounds
for it. But I’ve tried several times and haven’t
been able. Like everything else, you must begin
young—l played as a boy at my father’s table.
And to be a champion you must have a natural
gift, and practice. Like everything else. And play
the all-round game. They’ll tell you I prefer the
top-of-the-table game myself—keeping the balls
near me; but I don’t know that I have any
favorite stroke. Sometimes I fluke a new stroke ;
and then I practise it; for I know that what I’ve
done once I can do again—see ? That’s the beauty
of billiards—there’s plenty of room for improve-
ment in the game; it’s full of possibilities.
“ The British game, I mean, of course ; far and
away the best to my mind. I wouldn’t play the
French or American game; I think it spoils
billiards. And the Americans are beginning to
find that out; they’ve about exhausted the ten-
and-five table. But our game, with our table —as
I say, there’s ever so much ahead of it. Billiards
are more popular now than ever they were; though
| the whole game has been, you might say, revolu-
I tionised since I began to play. Yes; and im-
proved. Knocking out the push stroke has given
more variety. But a billiard-table still costs too
much for the game to be thoroughly popular.
When you can get a table for £25 billiards will
make great strides.
“The Billiard Association people mean well, try-
ing to make tables uniform; but they don’t under-
stand their business. They insist on a standard
3§in. pocket; and as long as the tem-
plates of the pocket measure 3§in. by their
standard they’re satisfied. They don’t realise
that you can put their standard templates on
two tables; and one pocket will be as hard as the
deuce to get into, while the other’s like going into
my hat. It’s the way the pocket’s built-up. No
two tables are alike. I would be in favor of the
pocket being widened a little, so as to make the
pocket-chance closer to the chance of a cannon.
When you cannon, you have the width of two
two-and-a-sixteentb balls to play with—4A inches.
Anywhere in 4£ inches you cannon. But the
Billiard Association’s standard has only a 3§in.
template. Why not make the pocket-chance a
little more equal to the cannon-chance, and have a
uniform all-round game ?
“ The most exciting game I ever played in my
life? Well, I think it was a game of pyramids I
had with a gentleman named Sidebottom —about
1888, in London. I’d been playing him all the
evening—won £2BOO from him ; and, at three in
the morning, I said, ‘ Well, a man can’t go on for
ever; I must stop.’ ‘No,’ he said ; ‘you must
give me my revenge.’ ‘All right,’ I said; ‘on
condition that this is the last.’ So we played
three games for a monkey a game ; I gave him
three or four balls ; and we were game and game.
Then he won the last one. Sometimes the game
is very close. When you come to winning or
losing by half-a-dozen points in several thousand,
it does get exciting. And that happens now and
then.
“ The table is nearly everything in billiards.
The best man can’t play on a bad table. Then
your cue must be well-balanced, and have a good
tip. Never save money on your tips. And good
chalk, compared with bad, is worth ever so many
points. The touch is everything. If you haye
bad chalk and a greasy tip that works lop-sided ;
why, you’ll miss-cue and lose the game. But
everybody knows that.
“Elave another drink, (Bring me another
whisky and apollinaris—the same whisky—and a
slice of lemon.) Yes, I have good health
travelling, and strange beds make no difference to
me. I sleep anywhere—nine or ten hours. That’s
a great thing.”
•» * • •
And when John Roberts sleeps, what does he
dreanf of? Hard-fought matches? brilliant
strokes? solutions to new problems propounded in
last night’s play on the green cloth? John
Roberts never dreams. “ Never dreamt of a game
of billiards in my life.”


Publications.
SEARCH
THE
WIDE
WORLD
OVER
And you will not find any Musical Publications that
compa e in variety or value with the
Australian..
Music gooks
Price, lf-
.. or . .
Posted, lj2.
MO, 52 (Just Published) contains
10 Pianoforte Solos
of Mo lerate Difficulty.
No. 51 contains
25 Easy Pieces for Little Fingers
A Perfect Gem. Get it for your Children.
No. 50 THE GRIEG ALBUM, contains
21 Magnificent Pieces
By the Famous Composer, EDVARD GRIEG.
No. 49 contains
49 Little Songs for Tiny Voices
This is another splendid number you should have
for the Children. It is certainly a marvellous
Shilling’s worth.
No. 48 contains
11 Pianoforte Pieces
Moderately Difficult. A siilendid Drawing-
room and Teachers’ Number.
No. 47 contains
12 Selected Songs
Including Gounod’s Serenade.
WRITE FOR FULL LIST , which will be sent
Post Free for the a-king.
jpT" If either of the a ove Numbers are not obtainable
at your Musicsellers send lircct to
Allan $ Go. proprietary [td.
Mils' c Publishers,
276 & 278 Collins St., Melbourne j
LADIES—>■
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
Books. Books. 113 o oka.
"POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
J Home £2 10s. for il. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, bound half calf, up-to-date edition, T 7 10s.
for t'2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 1898 edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R. W. SKI IM N E R SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh street., Sidney.
FOREiaKT STAMPS.
POST AGE
fTIEAP SETS.—24 Cuba, Is 6d ;
4O Japan, Is 6d ; 11 Canada,
6d; 16 Heligoland, Is ; 8 Bosnia,
6d ; 4 Tientsin, 3d ; 12 India Tele-
graphs, 6d ; 3 Victoria Queen on
Throne, 7s ; 8 Egypt, 6d : 11 Por-
tugal, 6d ;10 Bulgaria, 6d; Gibbons
Price Catalogue of Postage Stamps,
part 1., 2s 3d. Stamps purchased.
Catalogues of Albums, Packets, etc., gratis. CHARLES
B. DONNE, 346 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
m
nm
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET %$&
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
I t T , XT STRA.TED
n
~VXT ITII numerous anatomical
'' colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price 2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of hook, sent on receipt of 2d.
(stamps) foi postage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
GENTS.
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address—L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
CAULFIELD & MEL BO UK NE CUPS, 1900.
J, J, UILLEH SPOETii PAMPHLET
And Athletic -Record.
All Booksellers and Newsno-e- +».
Price Is.
TRICSEOG
A Study of BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASE
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner find Head r.son, SYJ)]\ T KY.
LOOK UNOERYOUR NOSE a Cue Shilling:.
A Realistic Story just published by Dr. Hodgson, of
Sydney (author of The Secret Society in Hodgson’s Tales 5
of Medical Students). All Bookstalls and Booksellers
Wholesale—Edwards, Dunlop & Co., Ltd., Sydney
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they will
be honoyably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
Nervous sufferers will find it worth tlieir
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
27 of this issue.*
BEWARE
OF
IMITATIONS
TEAT THE SIGETATITEE—
LEA & PERRIN’S
IS ON EVERY BOTTLE
SAUC
Agents—VlßGOE, SON & CHAPMAN and DAVID COHEN & CO., SYDNEY.
Registered under the “ Companies
Act, 1890,” as a Company, having
secured Assets in Victoria.
It has also deposits, as required by
law, in Great Britain, U.S.A., Canada,
and wherever operating in other parts
of Australasia.
Benefits Paid, over £1,650,000.
Monthly Income, ever £40,000.
Accumulated Funds, over £838,581.
Head Office, TORONTO.
ORONHYATEKHA, M.D., J.P.,
Supreme Chief Ranger.
™ INDEPENDENT ORDER" FORESTERS
Incorporated by Special Act of Parliament (Canada), 5% Vic. and 59 Vic.
A Great international and Fraternal Life Assurance Society.
'? ie gTives Life Assurance at a Lower Cost than any other Society in the World
Th ® pa y not onl y for Life Assurance, hut also for Disability and Old Age Pension
All Premium paying in the 1.0. P. ceases at Age 70, also on Total Permanent Disability. '
EXAMPLES:
.£lOO Policy.
/ Age 18
\ Monthly Ppemium Is. 7d.
20 25 30 35 40 45
Is. Bd. 2s. 2s. sd. 2s. lid. 3s. 6d. 4s. 4d.
50
6s. Id.
Policies for £lOO, ,£2OO, .£4OO, £6OO, £BOO, or £ICOO issued to Men
18 to 54 years of age, at Equal Rates.
and Women,
Office
J.
for South Australia :
H. GILMOUR, D.S.C.R.,
Victoria. Buildings,
29 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Chief Office, Australasia :
ROBT. MCNAIR, P.H.C.R.,
73, 74 and 75 Temple Court,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Office for New South Wales :
W. G. STOTT, D.S.C.R.,
283 George St.,
Sydney.
Prospectus , with full Table of Rates , Ac., on Application.
, “ Retained when all other
Foods are rejected.—•
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
FOOD fob
INFANTS
9
BENGER’S POOD is not only highly nutritious,
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by *
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
IVALIDS
AND
the aged.
He Shouted for Help.
It was not for pleasure that Mr. Wilson concluded
to take a walk in his garden ; it was rather an ex-
periment than an act of recreation. And, griev-
ous to relate, the result was against him. The
fact is, he had hardly covered a hundred feet of
ground before he stopped, gave a choking gasp,
and then sang out for help. His wife and two
sons came to the rescue, and got him indoors as
best they were able. And that ended his going
alone for six months or more.
By trade Mr. Wilson is a carpenter, one of the
most useful, peaceful and respectable of all the
forms of industry. He has lived and worked for
a long time at Given Terrace, Paddington, Bris-
bane, Queensland, and lives there still. About
four years ago—or it will be by the time this gets
into print—Mr. Wilson began to feel himself much
less of a man than he used to be ; he was breaking
down.
The first thing he noticed was that when he set
out to walk a fairish distance, which he would have
done once with a kit of tools on his back without
minding it—l say, when he set out to tramp this,
he found his legs were weak, and he often had to
stop for breath. And he kept on getting worse.
Such a state of things-was almost as bad for a car-
penter as it would have been for a postman.
Both these vocations demand good legs and good
wind.
On being consulted, the doctor said, “ Mr.
Wilson, your heart is so weak it can scarcely pump
the blood through your body, and your whole sys-
tem is out of order. There is no chance of your
getting sound again, and the sooner you lay aside
your saws and hammers the longer you are likely
to live. ”
These were plain words, to be sure, but not
words which a patient would feel like paying out
money to listen to. All the same, friend Wilson
did as the doctor said, because he had no choice.
He couldn’t work, and so, naturally, he didn’t.
His chisels grew dull, but not so dull as their
owner. He left olf making chips and shavings,
and went in for drugs and regrets—a bad land-
slide for him.
After about half a year of this sort of thing,"
Mr. Wilson made up his mind to find out for him-
self if he was in fact so poor a stick of human
timber as the medical man had declared him to
be; hence the experimental walk in the garden
already described. For six months more he was
like a ship in a dry dock, of no use to himself or
anybody else. The doctor had measured up the
carpenter’s complaint to an eighth of an inch, but
as for curing it, why, that he made no pretence of
doing.
“ About this time,” says Mr. Wilson in a letter
dated Sept. 22nd, 1899, “Mr. Frank Pereival
Peacock, of Manning Street, South Brisbane,
urged me to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup ; he said
he was sure it would help me. I didn’t think' so,
but I tried it. To my surprise and delight, it
enabled me to get about in three weeks, and in six
wee-.s I ivcnt back to work ; and have had splendid
health ever since.
“ As I am 61 years old it wasn’t the rebound of
youthful elasticity that saved me; it was Mother
Seigel’s Syrup, and nothing else. lam known to
nearly all the people of this neighbourhood, Who
can vouch for the truth of my statement.”—
H. Wilson. >
Mr. Wilson’s ailment was of the digestion—the
heart and lung troubles being functional symp-
toms of that. When the stomach was made right
he picked up his saw.
Brisbane municipal authorities had cans
made for the use of rat-catchers conveying their
spoils to municipal offices. Recently the shape of
can was altered. It was alleged as reason for the
alteration that a rat-catcher had remarked to a city-
inspector : —“Here, gimme back my can—l
want to get a pint o’ beer on the way home ! ”
The person who is out looking for Sunday
public-house convictions doesn’t stop at trifles.
In a recent case at Oakleigii, near Melbourne, the
enthusiastic informers couldn’t find an open hotel
to inform on. So they climbed over a 6ft. galvan-
ised-iron fence, prowled round till they discovered
an open window, whereby they crawled into de-
fendant’s licensed premises (defendant was a
woman, not big enough to throw out two large and
enthusiastic informers), and refused to quit until
they had a drink. They got a drink for peace
sake, and then informed, and defendant was fined
40s. The bench remarked that it had to fine the
lady whose premises were crawled into, but it
would recommend the quashing of the conviction.
Also, it refused costs to the two informers, whose
time, wear and tear of clothes getting over the
fence, and money out of pocket for drink, had
thus to go without recompense.
“Old Jack”: “Gunner’s” observations
concerning Sepoy chivalry during the Indian
mutiny are simply tommyrot. I was in India at
the time, and know of numerous cases of villain-
ous outrages on women by Sepoys. I saw a
French lady, en route for Europe, who had sur-
vived unspeakable abuses, but was happily mad ;
and I knew a man who had to witness the dis-
honor of his wife ere he was butchered himself.
As for the Cawnpore devilry, every female body
found in the wells had been stripped naked—the
poor creatures’ clothing, in tatters, was scattered
all about, and there was plenty of evidence of the
horrors that had been enacted. Fact is the whole
matter was so hideous that men, official or other-
wise, shrank frpm contemplating it, and silence
was agreed on as "the best homage to the outraged.
Of course, there were occasional instances of
Sepoy virtue, just as when the Pekin story is
told we shall have instances of Chow generosity
and forbearance. [And, as for the Sepoys firing
into the ceilings, sooner than.shoot the women
and children—Trevelyan’s account, hitherto un-
impeached, says—“ Half-a-dozen .sepoys were
ordered to sound the doom-note by firing through
the windows, at the ceilings of the room. Then
the five men—a member of the Nana’s body-guard,
two Hindoo peasants, and two Mussulman
butchers—went in with swords and began the
deliberate slaughter.”—Ed. B.]
The Chinese think a good deal of agricul-
ture—so much that their Emperor, who is other-
wise a great God Set Apart, ploughs with his own
royal hands the first furrows in the Agricultural
Festival to welcome the Spring. The Chinese
farmer believes in two things religion and
manure. He gets a holy man to pray over his
fields to make the rice grow,, and then to ensure
that it shall grow deluges it well with bean cake
and feathers of birds and human hair, which the
city barbers send him in great loads. The English
town poet who describes the English Hodge as
trudging cheerily home at even, his faithful dog
by his side, his plough upon his shoulder, and his
harrow and reaping-machine under his arm, would
have been all there if he had been describing the
cockatoo in the land of tea and rice. That’s how
John does carry his particularly small specimen
of earth-scratcher. He is a man of limited ambi-
tion, and when he has got possession of eight
or ten acres of his native soil, calls himself
the Chinese for squatter, and is considered a
big man in the neighbourhood. The Chinese State
encourages the people to go on the land and ex-
presses a fatherly interest in them once they are
there. There is an Agricultural Board in every
village, consisting of. three or four of the old
farmers of the place. Their duty is to see that
every cultivator makes the most of his land. If
he fails, the Board recommends the local magis-
trate to try the effects of a flogging, and the
magistrate invariably accepts the Board’s recom-
mendation. China would be the right place for
the numerous Australian selector who builds his
cowshed of bark, and grieves when the fatted calf
breaks through and wrecks the family mansion by
leaning against it before anyone can snatch him
off. Going on the land is a serious function in
China, and prayer, manure and flogging have
brought the land to an intense state of cultivation.
The Czar, in his benevolently despotic
capacity of “papa” to 80 millions of subjects,
lately issued an order that no more baccarat shall
be played anywhere in Russia. “Papa” Nicho-
las’s ukase recalls to mind the baccarat scandal
cloud that lowered on the Prince of Wales’ popu-
larity some years ago. Albert Edward was the
guest, during Doncaster week, of ship-owner
Wilson, a rather sanctimonious person, who had
issued his parental ukase against gambling on the
premises. Nevertheless the dining-room was con-
verted into a quiet “hell,” at the Prince’s sug-
gestion, as soon as old man Wilson was off to bed.
Green baize was stretched over the table, and to
avoid any tell-tale clinking of coin the royal
ringleader produced a sweet little set of leather
counters with their money-values stamped on
the face. The noiseless gamble went on
smoothly enough until two or three members
of the —haw!—ill-bred Wilson crow T d had the
vulgarity to spot a dandy visitor in the act of
cheating his Royal Highness the dealer. The
amateur detectives thought they were doing the
correct thing in exposing the fraud, whereas the
Prince would probably have been glad to give (or
owe) £5OO to be out of the trouble. As it was he
imposed an oath of secrecy on everybody at the
table, and hoped he would hear no more of the
scandal. But it leaked out —one of the women
couldn’t hold her tongue—and it got into the
newspapers, and the dandy culprit made an
unsuccessful attempt to prove his innocence, and
one way and another Albert Edwai’d found cause
to wish he was dead for a time. The story of
how he had presided at a baccarat table in a house
where card-playing was contrary to the domestic
law caused the last remaining hairs to fall from the
top of poor “Wales’” shiny head. The London
mob took rises out of him ; when his carriage got
blocked for a minute in a narrow roadway leading
to~ the Waterloo Railway Station the by-
standers started to enquire after his health. They
were afraid he had been sitting up too late playing
baccy-rat, Their 'anxiety as to whether their
future King had brought the counters with him
was intense. Just as the carriage moved on a loud
voice from the crowd announced : “ It’s all right,
Bill’’(every Cockney street humorist addresses
his deadliest remarks to a suppositious pal Bill)
“it’s all right, I’ve arst him, and he sez the coun-
ters is ’idden under the seat.”
The Bulletin hereby withdraws a state-
ment made in a recent issue that the Melbourne
Clerks and Warehousemen’s Association was the
only one of its kind in Australia. A Sydney
Clerks and Warehousemen’s Benefit Association
hangs out at 126 Pitt-street. It has been five
years in existence, has a steadily-growing mem-
bership, and, though it has many employers
among its vice-presidents and other ornamental
functionaries, the actual management is done by
the clerks and warehousemen themselves. Its
objects are
To provide a weekly allowance to members out of em-
ployment.
To provide medical attendance and medicine for mem-
bers and their families.
To assist members out of employment in obtaining
situations.
To relieve members, their widows or orphans, in specia
cases of sickness or distress.
To assist in defraying the funeral expenses of deceased
members.
Thus it helps the clerk or warehouseman while he
is alive, and supplies him with a neat tombstone
when he is dead. Long may it prosper !


The LITERARY TREASURES
OF THE
“ Not merely a work of reference, to be
consulted when some question or doubt arises,
but a reading library of the choicest character
—one that every man of culture covets as a
fireside companion in his own home.”
Britannica
Now that, under the special arrangement made by “The Times,” the ENCYCLOPEDIA
BRITANNIC A has been brought comfortably within the means of every buyer of books, there will
be few among those who take pride in the possession of a general library who will longer remain with-
out this monumental publication. It is characteristic, but it is none the less remarkable, that
some of the finest and most faultless work of our contemporary writers has been done for
the ENCYCLOPEDIA. Following the tradition of Lord Macaulay, of a generation ago —
though the tradition was really established long before—the foremost of English men of letters,
like the most eminent English men of science, have contributed from the store of their knowledge
and learning, to make the ENCYCLOPEDIA what it is—the one work of its kind in the world.
world. A similar example of obvious affinity between writer and subject is to be found in Professor
Alexander Bain’s account of the life and philosophy of John Stuart Mill.
How Lyly’s ‘‘ Eupheues” for the time set the fashion in English prose, how the work ran
through thirteen editions, and then was forgotten for a century, is charmingly told by Mrs.
Humphrey Ward. How the fame of Cowley eclipsed that of Milton, and how the author of the
“Miscellanies” afterwards fell into a neglect as undeserved as his earlier popularity had been,
and how deep was his influence on Dryden and his successors is traced by the trained hand of Edmund
Gosse. How the dull and colourless writings of Chamfort proceeded from the most brilliant talker
since La Rochefoucauld and how his “ Maximes etPensees” contain the most brilliant and sug-
In no other language does there exist such an ex-
traordinary compendium of human knowledge,
nor, on the other hand, an encyclopaedic work of
so high a literary standard.
Thepeculiarposition of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA
BRIT A N NIC A is unquestionably due to the
policy, established at its inception, of securing the
recognised authorities in each particular field to
write its articles, and to rely upon these alone.
The result has been an accuracy, a sympathy, a
vividness of treatment that lifts the ENCYCLO-
PAEDIA completely out of the ranks of mere
compilations. It is, indeed, not so much a cyclo-
paedia as a vast, all-comprehending, and admir-
ably-proportioned library.
A further result has been an array of special
articles of such value and importance as to make
the ENCYCLOPAEDIA indispensable to every
student or well-read man. This is not less true of
the arts and sciences than of literature itself. The
case of Mr. Swinburne, for example, may be in-
stanced as very keenly in point. The excursi ns
of the poet into the field of literary interprc a-
tion have been comparatively infrequent, and it is
not too much to say that his strongest and most
notable essays in this direction have been given to
the ENCYCLOPAEDIA. Contemporary criticism
has no deeper student of the earlier dramatists,
and Mr. Swinburne’s appreciation of Marlowe, of
Congreve, and Beaumont and Fletcher, come not
less than a large critical insight than from a
breadth of information possessed by no other
living writer. So, too, his appreciation of Keats
and Land or derive an especial value from the
poet’s own attraction, so strongly shown in his
own poetical work, for these two masters of form.
Again, among contemporary essayists, Mr.
Morley has made peculiarly his own the French
Revolutionary era. His more elaborate studies of
Diderot and Burke have been condensed into
brilliant monographs for the ENCYCLO-
PAEDIA. The instance of Canon Farrar is much
the same. His graphic narrative of the life of
Christ is not over 20,000 words in length, but it
combines in a terse, rapid way all those elements
which makes his larger study so deservedly
popular. The writings of Professor Saintsbury
upon French Literature are varied and volumi-
nous, and his account of this topic for the
ENCYCLOPAEDIA, as well as his individual
studies of Gautier, Lamartine, and many others,
may be said to be the outcome of a lifetime of pre-
paration.
John Addington Symonds appropriated the
period of the Renaissance so thoroughly that
hardly any other writer has ventured within his
field, and it is he who writes for the ENCYCLO-
PAEDIA of the Renaissance, as well as of
special types like Machiavelli. Professor Bryce
has gone deeply into the lore of the later
Roman Empire, and it is he who sketches the
character of Justinian, and likewise the
romantic story of Theodora, the bear-
feeder’s daughter, who became Empress of the
wm
fx' \ /'sss,
Wft , f;'
:
m ''
mwmmm
y:
L
S , ..••• Tfr ::
riaaSigg»B»
THE SPECIAL BOOKCASE.
gestive sayings that have been given to the modem
world, is revealed by the delicate pen of W. E.
Henley.
So instances might be multiplied by a thousand
—the story of Froissart, by Sir Walter Besant; of
Hogarth, by Austin-Dobson ; of Rossetti, by his
life-long friend, Theodore Watts-Dunton ; of
Berenger, by Robert Louis Stevenson ; of Saint-
Beuve, by Matthew Arnold ; of Moliere, by
Andrew Lang; of Washington Irving, by Dr.
Richard Garnett ; of Leonardo da Vinci, by
Sydney Colvin —the pen knows not where to stop.
Whether it be of a character or an epoch, a
question of science or of history, a subject of art
or philosophy, of law or trade, it is the supreme
merit of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA
than it puts the reader in instant possession of the
fullest and most accurate information and the
latest research obtainable. It is a rather less
recognised merit, that has been touched upon
above —that it contains an immense number of
contributions which are among the best posses-
sions of English literature. There are scores of
monographs buried in its voluminous pages which,
did it have nothing else to recommend it, would
stamp it among the most remarkable publications
of the century. So firmly fixed is the idea that
encyclopedia work must necessarily be “ machine-
made ” that it is easy to forget that the ENCY-
CLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA is not less a library
of literary treasures than a library of information.
The point has been dwelt upon at some length,
for the reason that the ENCYCLOPAEDIA has
hitherto been held at so high a price that, save in
public libraries, it has been practically inaccessible
to the average buyer of books. Believing that it
could do no greater service to its readers, “ THE
TIMES ” has effected arrangements, in virtue of
which a limited number of copies of the new
Reprint of the Ninth Edition will be distributed
in New South Wales at a special price, and upon
remarkable terms. Not only has the publishers’
catalogue price been cut more than in half, but
those who send in their applications at once may,
if they desire, have the privilege of paying for the
volumes a little at a time, month by month, until
the whole sum is made up. The subscriber pays
only One Guinea before he receives the complete
set of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA, which, it should
be understood, is the same in every way and in
every detail as the work sold by Messrs. A. and C.
Black at the full catalogue price. The purchaser
has the use and enjoyment of this monumental
publication while he is paying for it in an easy
way, from time to time, as his means permit.
SPECIAL ATTENTION is directed to the
fact that a stock of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA
BRITANNICA IS CARRIED IN SYDNEY
for the filling of immediate orders, thus saving
the carriage cost from London, as well as avoiding
the necessary delay in receiving the work that has
heretofore prevailed when orders were sent to
England.
THE REVOLVING BOOKCASE.
Home persons may hesitate to take advantage of “ The Times ” offer, simply because they have no shelf-room for the volumes. “ The Times ” cut down the price
of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA by one-half, but the size of the volumes—like their quality—remains unchanged. And the cost of a book-case large enough
to hold the 25 massive volumes would, under ordinary conditions, be a serious addition to the cost of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
For the convenience, therefore, of those who subscribe through “ The Times,” a handsome Revolving Book-case has been specially designed to receive the
ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA.
Subscribers who elect to pay for the ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA in monthly instalments of one guinea each, will, if they desire the book-case, be
called upon to make three further monthly payments (after the payments of the ENCYCLOPAEDIA have been completed).
Subscribers who pay for their sets in cash may procure the Bookcase by remitting a cheque for £3.
Temporary Prices for the 25 Volumes.
§OF~ Sufficient provision has been
made for the filling of orders
promptly posted, but applicants
who hesitate may find that the
number of sets reserved for New
South Wales has been exhausted,
and that the offer lias been with-
drawn, without further notice.
CLOTH
BINDING
17 Monthly Payments of One Guinea, each
or, if cash in full accompanies the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £37]
£l7
HALF
MOROCCO
(Which we
recommend)
22 Monthly Payments of One Guinea each,
or, if cash in full accompanies the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £4s]
£22
FULL
MOROCCO
29 Monthly Payments of One Guinea each,
or, if cash in full accompanies the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £6s]
£29
The Sets will toe Delivered to Subscribers Carefully Sealed in Tin-lined Cases.
The first 1000 Subscribers in New South Wales will receive their Sets Delivered
Free of Cost as far as Sydney, where stock is carried temporarily.
ORDER FORM CASH PAYMENT.
Subscribers who elect to send Cheque
in full with the order have the advan-
tasre of an additional-saving of one shilling in the guinea, as shown above, and no order form is required. Cheques
should be drawn to the order of the Bank of New South Wales, Sydney, and sent to The Times (London),
Mutual Life of New York Buildings, Sydney.
ORDER FORM-MONTHLY PAYMENT,
(Date)
To the Manager, “The Times” (London), New South Wales Office,
Mutual Life of New York Buildings, Sydney.
I enclose One Guinea. Please send me “The Times” Reprint of the Encyclopaedia Britannica (9th Ed.)
BOUND
IN
(A) CLOTH, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone .you may ap-
point, 16 additional monthly payments of one guinea each.
(b) half morocco, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone you
may appoint, '2l additional monthly payments of one guinea each.
(c) FULL MOROCCO, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone you
may appoint, 28 additional monthly payments of one guinea each.
[Strike out two of the
paragraphs marked a,
b, and c respectively,
leaving- the one which
names the style of
binding desired.]
my next payment upon delivery of the complete volumes, and ray succeeding payments on the corresponding' day of
each month following. Until such payments are complete, I engage that the Volumes remain your property, and
shall not be disposed of by sale or otherwise. I further agree that if, owing to unforseen circumstances, of which you
shall be the judge, the volumes cannot be delivered, the return of this deposit of one guinea to me shall cancel the
agreement.
Please also send a Revolving Bookcase, for which I agree to make three f urther monthly
payments of one guinea each, after the payments for the books are complete.
}
Strike out if Bookcase
is not desired.
Signed s
ISyd. Bul. FN. Ill]
Address
If books are to be delivered elsewhere than in Sydney, the purchaser shall add here the name of the
carrier (rail or boat) in Sydney to whom delivery is to be made for forwarding.


Amusements.
RONALD MACDONALD.
BRILLIANT
LADYSMITH LECTURES,
THURSDAY and SATURDAY.
Absolute Farewell Appearances in Sydney.
NEWCASTLE and BRISBANE to follow.
Crowded Houses Everywhere.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. EDWIN GEAOH.
Business Announcements.
A CA R D Established 1853.
Mr. ROBERT BYRNE,
Tjftnrl and Estate Agent,
Government Valuer,
333 Collins Street Next Commercial Bank,
(Ground Floor) Melbourne & Heidelberg.
Properties (City and Suburbs) for Sale and _ Tel.
entered in Register List Free of Charge. ® 1269.
Loans Negotiated, and all Inquiries Answered Promptly.
Henry Skinner,
01arendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10h3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to "him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS C.nd DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
ESTABLISHED 55 YEARS.
s * 1
ONE OF THE LARGEST BTOCKS OF
IRONMONGERY IN AUSTRALIA.
Cheapest Prices.
i i OOFING FELT, 75ft.x32in., 8s roll ; 500
8 i tons Bolts and Nuts up to 3Gin. long; Black,
Galvanised, and Steam Pipe up to Bin. dia. ; Wire
Nails, taking lOcwt. assorted sizes, 10s cwt., as
follows : x 6-7-8-9-10-11, x 6-7-8-9-10,
2in. x 5-G-7-8, 2| x S-6-7-8, 2i x 5-G-7-8 ; Copper
Boilers, 25 gallons, 35s ea. ; Copper Boilers up to
120 gallons ; Octagon Steel, lin., £2O ton ; Good
Quality Fuse, in cases of 500 coils, 4|d coil ;
Tinned Meat “S ” Hooks, 3in. to Bin., 26s cwt. ;
Governor Brand Horse Shoe Iron, los cwt. ;
Walker’s Horse Nails, 9s. cwt.; Globe Nails,
slightly touched, 4s box ; Bullock, Drag, Leading,
Back Chains, 2d lb. ; Bullock Bows, Id per lb. ;
Buggy Poles, 2s 6d ea. ; Tyre Bolts, 3-16th Is 6d,
£ 2s, 5-16th 3s per 100 ; Varnish, in 4 gallon tins,
20s tin ; Copal, 7s 6d gallon ; French Polish,
4s 6d gallon Hay Knives, 3s 6d ea. ; 2-pronged
Hay Forks, 15s doz. ; Hay Rakes, 10s doz. ; Cross-
cut Saws, 6s ea. ; Pit Saws, 7s Gd ea.; Military
Rifles, 7s Gd and 10s; Single Barrel Muzzle
Loaders, 15s ; Pinfire Revolvers, 6s ea. ; Snaring
Wire, 3d lb. ; Soft Soap, for Wool-washing, 14s
cwt. ; Steel Wire, slightly touched, 19 to 22 g.,
suitable for Broom-making, 10s cwt.; Paint
Brushes from 6s doz. ; Mixed Paints, per lb.;
Plough Shares, 10s doz.
IMPORTERS of Builders’ & Contrac-
tors’, Engineers’, Plum-
bers’ & Gasfitters’, Cabinet-makers’, &
General Ironmongery & Painters’ Material.
John (I|‘|ntosli & Sons,
307, 321, 323, 325, 276, 278,
PITT-ST., SYDNEY, N.S. W.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. C. Williamson.'
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening- at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
1900. ANNUAL OPERA SEASON. 1900.
3rd WEEK and CONTINUED BRILLIANT SUCCESS
of the WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY in
The Hose of Persia.
Plan, Nicholson’s. t 5@ r ~ PRICES—Ss., 35., 25.. and Is.
■yHEATR E ROYAL, SYDN E Y.
There is NO abatement in the INTENSE INTEREST
created by BLAND lIOLT’S
Wonderful Military Melodrama,
The Absent-Minded Beggar .
ALL ENTHUSIASTIC! ALL FULL OF APPROBATION.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERIO N THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Dampier.
ALFRED DAMPIER,
EVERY” EVENING EXCEPT FRIDAY,
The Green Lanes of England.
SEVENTH SHAKESPEARE FRIDAY.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10,
HAMLET.
ICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS’
TIVOLI MINSTRELS AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
TO-DAY”, First Appearance in Australia of the
PATTERSON BROS.
Bil'lee Barlow.
Splendid Success of EMMONDS, EM ME RSON and
EMMONDS, PAUL’S 1000 CENTURY AN IMATOGRAPHE,
Billy M'Clain, M. Cordelia, Walker and May, and all
our Great Double Co. Pldh at Paling’s.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Ilarrv Rickards.
First Appearance of the World's Greatest Pantomimists,
PAUL MARTINETTI
and his Renowned Great Company of Eight, in their
Latest Grand Production,
A TERRIBLE NIGHT*
Splendid Success of DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN, Roy
Cashin, Alma Gray, Will Whitburn, Dora Taylor, Eva Lee,
E. Brinkman, Alf. Lawton, and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Th eat re royal, m elbourn e.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
ANOTHER ANDERSON TRIUMPH,
THE ORPHAN HEIRESS.
EVERY EVENING,
The Great Sensational Surrey Drama.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
PR INCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction ol Mr. Robert Brough.
Representative Mr. Allan Hamilton.
LAST THREE WEEKS of the BROUGH COMEDY CO.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10, LAST NIGHT OF
TYRANNY OF TEARS.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 11, THE MAN OF FORTY,
an entirely new and original modern play,
by- Walter Frith.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’ and
the Grand.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
(Late Alkxaxdra).
Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 10, LAST NIGHT OF
NANCE O’NEIL as FEDORA.
SATURDAY”, AUGUST 11, First Time in Melbourne,
TESS OF THE D’U RB E RVI LLES.
MISS NANCE O’NEIL as TESS.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 5s ; Stalls and Family Circle,
3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
-|-OWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, August 11, at 3 O’clock
Scb?rek’& Orchestra.
(50 Instrumentalists).
Principal Violin MR. GEORGE WESTON.
CONDUCTOR .. HERR BENNO SCHEREK.
POPULAR PROGRAMME, POPULAR PRICES:
3s. 2s. and ONE SHILLING.
See Daily Papers. Box Plan at Allan’s.
THE POSTER ADVERTISEMENT BALL.
THE LATEST LONDON NOVELTY.
In Aid of the Children’s Hospital.
Under the patronage of His Excellency, Sir John
Madden and Lady Madden.
The merit of the Poster Ball is that it combines un-
rivalled opportunities for charming and effective dress-
ing, with an absolutely unique means of bringing an
advertiser’s interests under the notice of the public.
Each participant in the ball is, so to speak, a living poster,
and the effectiveness of such an advertisement may be
easily imagined. Prizes are to be awarded.
Mr. Chas. M’Mahon, the committee’s representative, is
authorised to arrange terms, &c., with advertisers.
JANET LADY CLARKE, President.
11. BYRON MOORE. Hon. Treas.
COLIN TEMPLETON, lion. Sec.
TO MAKE MONEY EASY
Give public exhibitions with the wonderful
MOTION PICTURES, a recent invention,
which illustrates interesting scenes with all the
motions of life, and a Panoramic Stereopticon
Outfit illustrating any of the following interest-
ing subjects: “ Around the World in Eighty
Minutes,” “ The Sights of Paris and the Ex-
position,” “ The Shadows of a Great City,”
“ Boer War in the Transvaal,” “ Spanish Ameri-
can War,” “ Religious Sets,” &c. Also the
GRAPHG-AMPLIPHONE Talking and
Musical Combination, which talks as natural as
life and reproduces the music of any instrument.
By giving entertainments in Public Halls,
Churches, Opera Houses, &c., many are malting
£OO to £l2O per month, and some exhibitors
much more. We furnish large Illustrated
Advertising Posters (H x 2 feet) with outfits,
complete and ready for business as soon as re-
ceived, at £8 arid up. Write for catalogue and
copies of letters from those who are MAKING
BIG MONEY with our outfits. Our Motion
Picture and Talking Machines are positively the
best made.
The Enterprise Optical Mfg. Go.
(incorporated.)
SB Fifth Ave, CHICAGO, U.B.A.
Our Cash Capital is £5OOO full paid in.
Reference : Graham & Sons’ Bank, Chicago,
or any large business house in the United
States.
Business Announcements.
GENTLEMEN ! !
AVrite at. once for SAMPLES of the
NEW SPRING SUITINGS
anrl we will forward to you FREE
SOMETHING THAT WILL PLEASE YOU.
Our New Spring: Coods are Now Ready.
HORDERN~BROTHERS,
ART TAILORS, and
SYDNEY’S LEADERS OF FASHIONS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Excellent Cutters in Attendance.
Watch the Sydney Daily Papers for OUR
SPRING ANNOUNCEMENTS.
ladies’ Tailoring
Season—^l9oo.^>
HAVING made special provision for keeping
pace with the growth of what lias now
assumed the proportions of a most important
branch of the Tailoring 1 Business, we are in a
position to invite the attention of Lady Patrons
to our New Stock of Season’s Goods, among which
we might particularly refer to those
Fancy Meltons, Venetians & Serges
in all the new colorings, now so much in vogue,
and the New Designs in Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each in-
coming; Ma.ilboat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Co.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
ROCHESTER LODGE
Collins Place Bast, ]Jlgl|)oUril6.
Private Boarding Establishment.
Most Central and Healthy Position in the
City. Within three minutes’ walk oi Town Hall.
Close trains, trains and theatres.
Terms Modeatre.
Mrs. M'CLELLAND,
Pronrietress
Medical.
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Is a restorative and physic A
regenerator of magic power. A
broken-down or weakened eas-
tern rejuvenattd Vytol acts
on the nerves, brain & blood,
quickly & permanently re-tor-
mg to the suffer* r the lost v m,
energy, strength and vigor of
youth. IMc* posted, 7/6 Itocke,
Tonmsit t & Co., Druggi ts, v 92
Flmders-slreet VV„ Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Free.
"COMMON SENSH EAR DRUM.”
Ithei
DEAF
pOMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-day for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
Mrs. WALSH ES
Famous English Y::nsy Pills.
( Registered.)
'T'IIESE Famous Pills are now universally used through-
out the world, being the most perfect combination
of agents yet discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and may be safely taken by the most
delicate without fear. Being non-poisonous, and with a
decided and sure specific action, they can always be relied
on to afford immediate relief. Price, sent anywhere,
ss. 6d. per box. Obtainable at Rocke, Tompsitt, and Co.,
Druggists, 272 Flinders-street, Melbourne.
47
'J'
o
t-r;
OLD
RKTS
SUNBU.
FINg
c/?
HA
V
Ic. C
s
H
Y
1
p *o
r, Etors
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
G. L. ROBERTS, M.D.
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
inventor op Dr. ROBERTS’
Poor Mans Friend OINTMENT.
The best for all Wounds and Skin Diseases,
Chronic Sores, Ulcerated Legs, Pimples,
Sore Eyes, &c.
cse Dr. ROBERTS’
ALTERATIVE PILLS,
For all impurities of the blood. Invaluable for Skin
Diseases. Prices is. ijd. and as. jd. each of all Drug
Stores.
Sole Makers. BEACH & BABNICOTT, Ltd.
BRIDPORT, England
Fair girls and gray horses.
2nd Edition. Pri*e 4/6.
At Poverty Point.
Stroller ” relates to The Bulletin his adventures at
Nance O’Neil’s Hedda Gabler :—I was the sole man among
200, and when the door opened was borne upstairs by the
onslaught of skirt. The amphitheatre was filled with
earlier arrivals and I could only secure a fractionary seat.
A girl, with a volume of Ibsen, sat next to me —and we
were crushed into acquaintance. She talked Nance gener-
ally—l wondered if my arm was warm to hers, too. She
thought Nance commanding, lovely, intense. She herself
was small, excitable, yearningly wistful —a modern Clytie
with her feelings as yet unfocussed. All around, the
babble—multitudinously feminine—was in the same key.
A little old lady declared she had come 40 miles
by the cheap excursion I knew that enthusiasm
was Gippsland’s. My right knee was threatened by a
grey-faced school-marm, sourly determined to see.
She could stand—l wasn’t going to give up my Clytie.
The curtain rose. I could see a quarter of' the
stage by a neck feat. I followed the play with my ears—
my thoughts being tethered to one sense alone were freer
to speculate over Nance’s voice. It is commanding—it
suggests public meetings, large outdoor ones ; it is the
American woman’s—the Woman that is To Be. After the
first Act Clytie felt faint—l supported her. Half-an-hour
in that magnetic atmosphere gave me as much as years of
intimacy, Another Act followed. Clytie rose to see and
sat down partly on my knee. The school-marm was tired
and sat on the top of a seat with her back to the stage.
But I was surprised at the hold the piece had on the
audience as a whole. A few laughed at Lovberg’s
drinking—only a few—the majority saw the tragedy.
Clytie talked much during the next interval—
with her _ hair coming down. She read her own
emotions into the play and credited Nance with
them—a delightful egoism. The old lady in the following
act whispered “Love-letters,” when Tesman produced
Lovberg’s MS. She had woven melodramatic complica-
tions of her own round them, but she was enjoying it
with large, blind idolatry. When lledda burnt the'letters
Clytie squeezed my hand—a hard, passionate pinch. At
“ I am burning your child, Thea,” the air became as
electrically feminine as a boudoir’s. The audience under-
stood as one woman. The instinctive comprehension was
so contagious that I almost forgot my sex—but for Clytie,
who was a pale and tremulous tangible reality upon my
knee. In the last interval I threw out proposals for
future mutual communi: n—with Ibsen. I prayed
for the electric light to fail, and damned the opening
music of the last act,' for it was useless talking
against Nance —even with instincts on one’s side. The
curtain fell—Clytie became a young lady who thanked
me formally for picking up her parasol. I missed her in
the crowding out ; but I met her on the path outside.
She gave me a blank stare and passed on—the hysteria
was over. I wa,tched the swarm of womankind—all tired
and longing for tea ; .and I forgot Clytie in the endeavor
to crystalise my impressions. Nance had reason to be
proud—she had interested a majority among whom a few
years ago the “ Doll’s House ” was guyed. I recalled her
voice—how it dominated Kingston’s High Churchman,
Plimmer’s prosperous self-satisfaction, Game’s well-bred
mezzo ! Yes, this is it. Nance’s was the manliest per-
formance of them all. • Hence these skirts.
W 11 Whitburn’s hold upon his Melbourne audiences is
often said to be inexplicable to Sydney people, but they
must accept it as a solid provincial truth. There is a new
stage-manager and “ middle-man ”, at the Bijou—a genial
disciplinarian, seemingly, who undertakes to start the
Martinettis’ 50min. pantomime at 9.3 I, and objects to any
waste of time in the first part. Whitburn was dawdling
over his “ turn ” as usual, t’other night, at the end of a
somewhat too long first part, when the new boss (Barring-
ton) interjected in a business-like voice : “ Mr. Whitburn,
the stage waits ! ” The popular scarecrow-identity turned
the reprimand into a joke by looking up at the gallery,
with a jerk of the head towards the new boss, and re-
marking : "He thinks that because he’s been a stage-
manager for 17 years in Sydney he can come here and talk
to Willie!” The gods roared. Everybody roared. Mel-
bourne’s weary Willie is a law unto himself.
The Bulletin predicted that Nance O’Neil was going to
get Melb. theatrical criticism into a shocking tangle.
Take the Age notice of “School for Scandal”: “Miss
Nance O’Neil should leave comedy severely alone. . . .
Miss O’Neil has a certain capacity for delineating the
markings of a strong tempestuous character, but she is
deficient in those feminine graces , &c., that are demanded
in the realms of homely pathos and pleasant fancy. In
Elizabeth, Miss O’Neil defined the limitation of her quali-
ties. ... It is that insufficiency of arch and playful
humor , the inability to realise the capricious wayward-
ness of a sprightly, tender-hearted woman that makes
Miss O’Neil a disappointing Lady Teazle.” This was a
pretty honest back-down for a paper which, a month
earlier, had said : “ The part of Magda calls for the dis-
play of a very wide range of emotions—tenderness and
contempt, revolt and playfulness , &c. The unstudied
ease with which Miss O’Neil passed from one mood to an-
other without a strained intonation held her audience
spell-bound.” But the Age, having backed down, found the
other papers still sticking to their'old enthusiasm for Nance
the slogger, so it backed up again, and said of her Peg
Woffington performance—“ If anything could test an
artist’s versatility and demonstrate whether she was
entitled to rank, if not as a planet, at any rate as a bright
star in the dramatic firmament, it would be realised in
the series of impersonations Miss O’Neil has attempted
during her season in Melbourne. ... In ‘ Peg Woffington ’
the flavor of grief and disappointment is blended with a
pretty story of self-sacrifice and a happy combination of
pathos and humor. . . . Miss O’Neil was graceful and
womanly in the scenes with Ernest Vane. . . . the
business of introducing the roues and wits of the
company under grandiloquent names was excellently
managed. The third act, in Triplet’s garret, was also
carried through with liveliness and spirit, a little
boisterous and just wanting that modulation of tone
which is the fly in the amber of Miss O’Neil’s finer
work, but none the less a thoughtful and carefully-
studied performance.” Each of the three notices quoted
is more or less a contradiction of the other two.
In one she passed thrqpgh a range of emotions with ease.
In another her qualities were limited to, tempestuous
acting, and she had no feminine graces or pathos. And
in another she was graceful, womanly, and lively, but
wanting in modulation of tone. What a tangled web is
weaved by critics Who get self-deceived. If anyone wants
to know whether there is any real feeling in Nance’s large,
manly performance let him shut his eyes for a few minutes
whilst the lady is engaged in conversation with, say/
Plimmer.
Musgrove begins his season at Melb. Princess with
“The Scarlet Feather.” Nellie Stuart figured in this
comic opera at ’Ome, and if Muzzy were to bring her along
for the new opening, the likelihood of the Princess taking
a big grip would be considerably enhanced. . .
( “ Edson ” : In considering Na,nce O’Neil’s work, quan-
tity as well as quality may be considered. Certainly no
actress operating here has worked through so many heavy
roles in so short a time. In this matter the leading lady
has to submit to being led, and, consequently, after
“ Hedda Gabler,” “Peg Woffington,” and “ Fedora” with-
in eight days, and that on top of a series of quick changes
in exacting plays, It is hardly surprising that Bernhardt’s
completeness was lacking in the first night of the Franco-
Russian tragedy. A few bricks should have been hurled
at those running this show for the folly of running it off
its legs.
It was a nice question with Her Majesty’s (Melb.)
government whether John Rumbelow, the real call-boy at
the theatre, should play the Call-boy in “ Peg Woffing-
ton.” However, Peg feared he would be too much of a
star, this Little Gulliver, and indeed it would not have
been wise to have the scene interrupted by a guffaw. So
Rumbelow merely called the Call-boy.
The adorable Antoinette Trebelli changed her platform-
name a few weeks ago. Seems that, from time to time,
people were heard to speak of her as the original Trebelli,
whose voice, if it had lived till now, would have been de-
cidedly sere and yellow. So the charming Antoinette
made her first appearance, at the Winnipeg Theatre
(Canada), with a footnote on the programme as follows :
“ In order to prevent any confusion with her personality
and that of her deceased mother, Mile. Trebelli has found
it expedient to assume a different professional appellation,
and for this she has selected one of her family names.
From this time forward, therefore, Mile. Trebelli will be
known on the concert-platform as Mile. Dolores.” All the
same, it is probable that Mile. Dolores will make a point
of being generally known as Trebelli when she pays her
next visit to these parts. The old name has good Aus-
tralian gold in it.
“ Tommy ” Hudson, who has been running a waxworks
show in the pious city, has joined Pollock in leasing
Adelaide Royal. The new firm takes the Royal for three
years.
“ Mac” moans from Melb. :—Recent B, theatrical critic
stated that at Sydney’s leading play-house programmes
are very scarce, there rarely being sufficient to go round.
That’s Just the complaint of visitors to a certain Melb.
house. Surely everyone is entitled to a programme,
especially as the advts. thereon pay for same.
More dramatic criticism : “ Oh, ‘ Woman and Wine ’is
a fraud. All Bland ’Olts are frauds, but, my oath, what a
rotten crowd was at the Royal before him. Why I seen
’em in a show called “ Solvin’ th’ Wind,” an’ they did
nuthin’ but sit about and drink wine out o’ straw bottles,
an’talk. They never used to do nothin.’ No more o’
them Broughs for me. My oath, no 1 ”
A weddilig-notice in Melb. Age of July
12 'begins: “Arnott—Ready. ” And yet they
got married.
The Sydney anti-Federal papers are now
quite enthusiastic over Commonwealth prospects,
and are mentioning their joy in many leaders,
notes and paragraphs. Anyone would think that
“alone they did it.” By-the-way, N.S.W. anti-
Federalism has only one really red-hot disciple
left—G. Republican Dibbs, but he is now worth
several men, having shaved his beard and renewed
his youth. The moustachioed G.R.D., his many
distant friends will be glad to hear, now appears
to be not more than 45 years of age.
Easily Secured.
There is a widespread idea that books are costly
luxuries, and that only those possessed of abun-
dant means Can afford to be the owners of works
covering a very wide range of topics. It is quite
true that the possession of a complete library in-
volves a large expenditure, which is beyond the
reach of persons of humble means. But it is also
a fact that the ability to become well-informed
does not depend upon a large expenditure for
books. At best, an education is but an epitomisa-
tion of the knowledge of others, and does not in-
volve original research, -except in a few cases. To
obtain such an epitomisation does not necessarily
involve a detailed study of all the works upon any
desired topic, since this has already been done by
the best scholars, the results of whose labours are
confined in those great condensations known as
encyclopaedias. The “Encyclopaediaßrittannica”
is the concentrated wisdom of the best minds the
world has known. It is authoritative and com-
plete. The amount required in order, to obtain
possession of this greatest of all works of reference
through the offer of the London Times, is so small
that no one can plead poverty as a reason for not
purchasing it. The insignificant sum of Bd. a day
(a guinea a month) can surely be laid away by
anyone who is regularly employed, no matter how
small his salary, and yet that is all that is needed.
A little self-denial is all that is necessary, and it
will prove a literal casting of bread upon the
waters, for no money is so well spent or so certain
of returning a large interest as that devoted to the
improvement of one’s mind.


‘Sound as a Bell all Over,’
THE DOCTOR AFFORDED NO EASE.
It turned out that
CLEMENTS TONIC was just the
thing I wanted.
The Ca.se of
Mr. THOMAS KELLY.
(AN INTERESTING INTERVIEW.Jr
There is no more beautiful suburb of
Brisbane than that of Red Hill. Here the
loverof nature may obtaina comprehensive
view of the dark, green, wood-clad hills,
the broad and shining river pursuing its
sinuous course towards the Pacific, and in
the foreground of the picture he may behold
the extensive city of Brisbane spread at his
feet; the whole forming a scene of semi-
tropical lovelinessthatcanhardly feematched
in Australasia. Nestling half-way down
one of the ridges of Red Hill, in Zig Zag-
stieet, is the pretty little cottage where
resides Mr. Thomas Kelly, about whose
remarkable restoration to health we had so
often heard in an unofficial way that we
determined to despatch a reporter to gain a
plain and ungarbled report. Mr. Kelly
welcomed the newspaper man enthusiasti
cally, and without the least hesitation
accorded him the interview just as the
reader may see it here.
Reporter : “ What about that iness o f
yours ? ”
Mr. Kelly: “ That is some time since,"
replied Mr. Kelly. “At present I am as
sound as a bell all over, and can do a hard
day’s work without so much as turning a
hair. Once, however. I was so weak I
couldn’t walk—l positively could not walk.”
Reporter: “Yes,” encouragingly.
Mr. K elly : “ Yes, indeed ; and the illness
came upon me in such a strange way,
too. I began to get thin without any cause
that I could find out. This gave me no
little anxiety. Then all at once the reason
of my sickuess became apparent. The food
I was taking was not nourishing me. I ate
it, but it failed to assimiiate. I had hardly
ascertained this when severer symptoms
marked the evil progress of my complaint.
After eatiug food it seemed like a heavy
load on my chest. It was as though I had
swallowed a stone or a lump of wood. It
hurt me much and seemed to press on my
lungs and my heart.”
Reporter : “ Did this food finally digest ?”
Mr. Kelly: “No, it did not. It partially
digesied, and would then turn sour, and
would ferment, causing heartburn and
belching of a sour gas. My tongue was
coated all over with a yellow substance, and
I had all the time a hitter taste in my
mouth. I not only suffered pain in the breast,
but also lower down in the stomach and
bowels. All these symptoms troubled me
just as much at night as in the day time. I
tried starving myself, but this proved of no
service. Generally, lhadnoappetiteataliand
won •! almost have to force the food down
my tnroat, but at other times I felt almost
ravenously hungry, but on these latter
occasions my hunger would disappear after
I had passed the first bite between my lips,
and I had to get up and leave the table. My
head troubled me a good deal, too—a nasty,
dull, sick headache that would never leave
me, and which kept me awake night after
flight. I got very little sleep at this time,
I cau assure you, and I felt as tired in the
morning, or more so, than I had felt when
getting* between the sheets the night
before.”
Reporter : “ Were you long in this con-
dition ?”
Mr. Kelly: “For months, but slowly
getting worse, and daily getting thinner and
weaker. Sometimes, in addition to the
headache, I sßould have a queer heavy
feeling about nry eyes—just as though they
were dead. In’ the end I became so thin £
was like a skeleton. When 1 stood up my
limbs shook und*r me from sheer weakness.
My face was of an unearthly, dusky colour,
and deep and dark hollows were under my
eyes.”
Reporter: “Did you obtain medical
advice ? ”
Mr. Kelly: “I employed a doctor con
tinually, but he afforded me no ease,'
although he changed my medicine several:
times. I also went to the hospital, but all'
seemed to be no use to me. I then com-
menced on several remedies which were
advertised, besides trying a grt at many other
supposed remedies which were continually
recommended to me, but they proved abso-
lutely useless. I became almost hopeless ; a
miserable despondency seized me and slowly
the thought came over me that I wars sinking
away and should never recover.”
Reporter : “ But I hear and see that you
finally made an excellent recovery ? ”
Mr. Kelly : “Yes. It was in this way
had often heard of Clements Tonic, but I
put it down to be merely a make believe,
like the various bottles of rubbish and boxes,
of fancy-named pills that 1 have been taking.,
However, I was so strongly recommended to;
take a few doses, to see if that remedy
would suit my complaint, that I gave way
and sent for a bottle.”
Reporter: “ I ho e it gave you relief?
Mr. Kelly : “It turned out that Clements
Tonic was just the thing I wanted, for in a
very short time after putting myself under
that treatment I began to pick up. I now
found I could take my food again without
any inconvenience; and very soon I could
cat again with a fair degree of appetite.
Nor did I suffer with pain in the chest and
stomach, but my food digested, and left my
stomach free from wind. Now my food wa3
doing me good and nourishing me in a
healthy way ; it woul < have surprised you to
see me put on flesh. I plucked up my spi its
and felt quite cheerful and hop ful, as I
found that every day I improved with
Clements Tonic. It put flesh on my bones
and vitality and vigour into my system. I
slept like a top, being entirely fieed from
headache, and was thoroughly refreshed by
my long sleep when the light of morning
made its appearance. Finding Clements
Tonic was doing me all this good, I gave it
a good chance by taking it right .up to the
time I was able to get back to work again,
It was a perfect success, for it not only
cured my complaint, but the cure has been
quite permanent, as you may see for yourself.”
Reporter: “ You have cause to be thank-
ful to Clements Tonic.”
Mr. Kelly : “ Most certainly I have, and
who wouldn’t, after having teceived benefits
such as I did from that source ? ”
“And you have no objection to a full pub-
lication of your statements ? ”
“No objection in the world ; you can
make public every word I have said.”
STATUTORY DEOC A RATION.
I, Thomas Kkllv, of Red Hill, Brisbane, in the
Colony of Queensland, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare that I have carefully read the
annexed document, consisting of four folios and con-
secutively numbered from chip to four, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish the same in any
way ; and that I do not receive any payment for the
same; and I make this solemn declaration volun-
tarily, conscientiously believing the same to be true,
and by virtue ol the provisions of “ The Oaths Act,
1867. 1 *
-vetared at Brisbane, this 6th day cf September,
■ thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine, before
e W. J. TROUTON, J P.
FURNITURE, CARPETS, BEDSTEADS
AND BEDDING.
A. Hall & Co.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, covered in Rich
Tapestry and Silk Plush Borders--Couch,
2 Armchairs, and 4 Small Carved Chairs,
4 Guineas.
A. Hall & Co.
BEDROOM SUITE, Walnut Color—Wardrobe,
dress compartment, enclosed by bevel plate-
glass door ; Duchesse Dressing Table _to
correspond, Marble-top Washstand, 2 Chairs,
and Towel Rail. £6 15s.
A. Hall & Co.
DINING-BOOM SUITE, Very Strong—
-6 Padderl-back Chairs, Pair Easy •Chairs, and
Couch, all Spring-seated. £5 15s.
A. Hall & Co.
FULL-SIZED HALF-TESTER BEDSTEAD,
Extended Footrail and Brass-mounted ; Best
Kapok Mattress, Bolster, and 2 Pillows,
Triple Wire Mattress.
£4 15s. complete.
A. HALL & COMPANY,
561, 563, 565 & 567 George-street, Sydney.
Hall’s New Catalogue, 72 Pages, 500 Illustrations, Posted Free.
Country Orders Packed Free.
Open all day Saturday until 9 p.m. Close 1 p.m. Wednesday.
Leave Tram at Liverpool-street for Hall’s.
The Jolliest Book of the Year
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.”
“By Steele Rudd.
This is the Latest Type !
GRAMOPHONE
or
ZONOPHONE!
Price, J 37.
mn
TALKS! SINGS!
PLAYS ALL
Instrumental Music!
In fact, it is a CONCERT in your own Home.
Nothing 1 to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action
ILecords, 2s 61 ; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New illustrated List —FREE.
/fgT Also on Sale —Phonographs and Graphophones ;
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £so—a fortune for a smart
man ; 2 Edison Kintosoopes, rlO each —Bargain.
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOTS
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe Street (120 Pitt-street), Sydney (Only),
nearly opposite G.P.O.
[Carriage Paid.] VV. J. N. Oldbbsiiaw, Manager.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £.900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEI? , X COMZFBTXTXOKT.
WINES The, Beat Brands Only of SPIRITS.
&c
MANUFACTORIES OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
m
The Most Delicious
Sauce in the World.
RELISH
Millions of Bottles Sold Annually in England.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL'S
CUSTARD POWDER.
Tor making delicious Custards without eggs
Less Time and at Halt the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DEJLIC OUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GQODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure aud wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete iu themselves in the
following flavours :—Lemon, Orange,Vauilla,
Raspberry, Strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors:— GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative: JOSEPH EVERETT, Bagot Ud.Subiaco, Perth, W.A.&6B,King St.,Melbourne
Business Announoßm it?.
©
U
k
rtai
USE
SPOONER’S
nm
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning and Polishing'
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
black: oil
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
. bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Unrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc., Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
. Medical.
35 YEARS PROVEN EFFICACY.
Wi
Take
6*
n
XJlajs ComPf .
\h> el oiS
i
of all (>f EMI STS
[throughout Oreat Britain & the Coloni es
’LINUM CATHARTICUM Pills Purely %table
ui£ COACUUNE •
Transparent Ce ment for all Broken Articles
r GOUT v
PILLS.
F° R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA.
LUMBAGO.
These invaluable Pills/ a tv rec mummied
to the afflicted with copHdi nee, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Prout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.


4
a
THE. LEAD I NC HOUSE.
N O M I D D L..E MEN
WE SAVE YOU 25 TO 50 PERCENT
iikLs
mn
m
nm
Th£ SIX
LONDON
PRLMI ER E STABUSRMENTS
SYDNEY MELBOURNE PERTH AUCKLAND WELLINGTON
No. 201a —Set Links, 9-carat
Gold, £1 Is; 16-carat Gold, £2;
Silver, 6s 6d.
Lady’s Gold Tie-Ulip, set with
Pearls and Turquoise, 18s 6d.
No. 116a —9-carat Gold and Fine Amethyst
Brooch, 18s 6d. Superior Design and Finish.
No. 193 — Set; Links, 9-
carat, 15s 6d ; 15-carat,
£llos ; Silver, 4s (id.
No. E747B—S-carat Gold Chain, Bell and Leaf
Brooch, 11s (jd.
No. 021--15-carafc Gold and
Fine Opal Links, £4.
No. E7347.—501id Silver Shaving Mug,
£4 10s, either Plain or Ohased ; Best Silver-
plated, 18s 6d and £1 6g.
mm
m*
&
sm
Cut-Glass Toilet Bi x, Solid Silver Top. Small, 15s 6d ;
Medium, 21s ; Large, 255.
m
w§M§m
,Wi
i&SSs
IP
WiKii
Very Massive Solid Silver Cake Basket, £l3 10s.
No. 284.—Cut-Glass Puff Box, with
Solid Silver Top, 3in. high, £1 Is.
Others, 9s 6d and 13s Cd.
No. 558.—Very Massive 15c. Gold Broo :h, 9 Fine
White Diamonds, £8 10s. Special Value.
No. 150.—15 c. Gold Bracelet, i Diamond, 2 Rubies, £4 7s (id.
N>. 017.—9 c. Gold and Fine Opal Brooch, £1 ss.
No. 139. —9c. Gold Bracelet, Ruby Centre, £1 2s 6cL
No. P3739—Best Silver-plated and
Satin-lined Collar Stud Box,
-- 7a 6d. -
Solid Silver Shaving Brushes, 11s 6d, 13s 6d, £1 is, £1 12s 6d.
V- -
No. 3S3A. —Beautifully Chased Cake Basket, -Finest Silver-
plate, on Nickel Silver, £2 10s. Others, £1 Is and £1 10s.
No. 371—Silver-plated Salts
Stand and Spoon, with Fancy
Glass, 3in. high, 5s 6d.
No. 373—Beautiful Silver-plated Toast
Back, 6 divisions, 7in. long, 12s 6d
No 177.
Gold Keeper, ISc.,
£1 Is.
No. 208.—15 c. Gold
Heart, 10s 6d ;
Oc. ditto, 6s 6d.
No. 178. Wedding
Ring, 18c. Gold,
£1 Is.
Heavy, £llss.
No. 193 A.— Set Links.
9c. Gold, 12s 6d ; 15c. Gold,
£1 ss. Silver, 3s 6d.
No. iOJ.
2 Diamonds, 3
Rubies, 18c. Gold,
£2 12s 6d.
No. 194 A.—Set Links.
Bc. Gold, £1 ss; 15c. £2 10s.
Silver, 4s 6d.
No. 163.
5 Fine White Dia-
monds, £5 5s ;
2 Diamonds, 3 Sap-
phires, £3 10s.
No. 215 —Pearland
Ruby Heart, 9c.
Gold, 16s 6d.
No. 167.
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies,
18c. Gold, £2 6s.
Silver-plated Eg# Frame 2-Cur,
£1 5s ; 4-Cup, £2 ; 6-Cup, £3 3s.
No. E 6851 —New Clasp, antique design, very
handsome, heavy make, Solid Silver, £l. (En-
graving drawn half size.) Others, 8s 6d, 10s Od,
13s Od. Silver-plated, 4s 6d and ss.
No. KaOOl- Beautiful Silver-plated Bis-
cuit Box, £llss.
No. E 7849 A Charming and
Novel Wedding Present. Silver-
plated Egg-Boiler for the Break-
fast-table, £1 ss.
No. 416—Handsome Clock, Tin. high,
Gilt Fox Head, two Hunting Crops,
and two Gilt and Leather Traces,
£1 7s 6d.
. —9c. Gold Bar Brooch,
10s 6d.
No. 130. 15c. Gold, Opal and Diamond Bracelet*
New and Handsome Design, £l2 10s.
No. 015.—15 c. Gold and Finest Opal Heart
Brooch, £3.
No. 137. —9c. Gold Bracelet, set Sapphires and Pearls, £3
Others at £2, £2 ss, £2 10s, £2 15s.
Ho. 319 —Silver Button Hooks and Shoe-Lift’
10s Od ; siftaller size, 11s 6d.
295--Silv er -plated Serviette Rings, 2 in Case,
bs Cd ; 4 m Case, 16s 6d ; 6 in Case, £1 sa.
No. E 946 Morocco Case,
Solid Silver Shell-Pattern
and Knife, £1 5s
containing
Butter-Dish
No. 268a— Set of Solid Silver Manicure Instruments—Nail File
Scissors and Cuticle Knife, in Case, 17s 6d '
Others, 14* 6d to £6 10s.
Any of the Articles Illustrated above will be sent
Free and Safe by Post on receipt of Remittance.
Write for our Illustrated Catalogue. Sent Post Free.
£
IV
G\
/©
o
m
/©
CA
-m*
(A
Hi
(A
o
m


For fl|ore o ne Hundred years
SOAP
has maintained its supremacy in the face of the whole
world’s competition. Such a record could not be
achieved without cause. Temporary .successes are com-
paratively easy, but for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man who has once tried Pears’ Soap in the form of a
Shaving Stick wants no other, he takes it with him on all
his journeys. The woman who travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
“ matchless for the complexion.”
THE STOMACH GOYERNS THE WORLD.’
General Gordon.
DRAWING AN OVERDRAFT ON THE BANK OF LIFE.
ms
Late Hours, Fagged, Unnatural Excitement,
breathing 1 Impure Air, too rich food, Alcoholic
drink, Gouty, Rheumatic, and other blood
poisons, Fevers, Chills, Feverish Colds, Throat
Irritation, Sleeplessness, Biliousness, Sick Head-
ache, Skin Eruptions, want of appetite, Sour-
ness of Stomach, &c., &c.Use
ENO S ‘ FRUIT SALT'
Pleasant, Soothing, Cooling, Health-giving, Refreshing, and Invigorating
NO HOUSEHOLD OR TRAVELLER’S BAG SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
TN HOT OR FOREIGN CLIMATES ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ is
INVALUABLE. It is the BEST and SIMPLEST preparation for
regulating the action of the LIVER that has yet been discovered, and relieves
the system of effete GOUTY, RHEUMATIC matter, the groundwork, of
FEVERS and other diseases, which, if retained, poisons the blood and pro-
duces the most disastrous consequences. It allays nervous excitement, and
restores the nervous system to its proper condition by NATURAL MEANS.
The effect of ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT’ upon any DISORDERED, SLEEPLESS,
and FEVERISH condition is SIMPLY MARVELLOUS. It is, in fact,
NATURE’S OWN REMEDY, and an UNSURPASSED ONE.
C.ELTJTIOISI'.— See capsule marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you
have a WORTHLESS IMITATION. Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,
‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, by J. C. ENO’S PATENT.
Tailoring.^-^
POOR OLD HATTE
He toils not,
Neither does he spin,
T)tTT he turns out a REAL GOOD
SUIT, with Extra Pair of Trou-
sers, for £2 25. ; and a clinker for
505. ; and 3 Guineas Hand-
made.
A DRESS SUIT, Silk-faced,
from 635.
A CHESTERFIELD OVERCOAT
for 555. upwards.
-o-
WRITE FOR PATTERNS and SELF-
MEASUREMENTS
C. G. HATTE
NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
STOPS COLD
This Well-known Remedy for
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA, HOARSENESS, &c.
Gives immediate relief and rest.
Safe and pleasant for Children.
S&t
“ I use a good deal, giving it to servants
and others, and invariably hear of good
results. My brother, who had Whooping
Cough and could not rest, found it the
greatest relief.” —E. M. D., The Elms,
June, IS9S. Fnringdon.
AGENTS—Elliott; Hoffnung ; Dnerdin;
A. Drug Co.; Felton; Fanlding; Falk
CURES COUGH
R£kt§ER.MAN Hollow Grown®
ttv?
4l^yar ea .
NEVER REQUIRES GRINDING.
MADE IN VARIOUS WIDTHS OF BLAC
IN BLACK AND IVORY HANDLES.
Wholesale: OSBORNE, GARRETT, & CO.. LONDON. V.
Tales of the Convict System :
By “Prick Wabdng.” Paper covers,
193 pp. ; 6d.
The Decimal System.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
“What, Sellier! Back from the country al-
ready 1”
“ Zat is so, ze countree lam from back. I stay
six week, it ees enuff ! ”
Sellier rose and shook hands with his friend.
“I haf raysign, raytire—is zat not ze word? —
from ze Daypartmong Publique Instructiong ! ”
“ Why ; did you not like the billet ? You were
a teacher before, in your beloved France, weren’t
you?
Harman looked about the coffee-room of the
Grand. There was but one other occupant, a stout,
middle-aged selector, sleeping off several days’
liquoring, in an armchair.
Harman drew a chair to the table and sat look-
ing at Sellier upon the opposite side.
“ I vas and lam ! I vill go back —ze Anglaise
it is, vat you say ? Bewilder ? Ze language it is
deefficult, but ze arithmetic, it is— ! ” Sellier
held up his hands and Harman laughed.
“Youlaf! You should veep for ze ignorance
of your countree ! I set out to teach ze rule,
simpel it is call. It is deefficult, suffichong for ze
French. 1 will explain.
Sellier rose and took pencil and paper from his
pocket. Harman rose also, and they bent over
the paper.
“ Here is ze simpel sum :
29
47
34
51
I add up ze first line. I say twentee-one. I put
ze twentee-one, so —21. Ze one I put down, ze
two I take —21. I mark out ze one, so ! I add.
ze 2—it is sixteen. I put down ze IG. I haf 161.
It is simpel. Ze child follow. I repeat; it onder-
stan’. I teach ze substract, ze multiply, and ze
deevide. It is all clear, it is ze ten system. Ze
young child onderstan’. I like ze work ; ze child
it advance.
“Then why didn’t you stay at the work ? ”
Sellier looked at Harman sorrowfully.
“ Stay, Harman ! I vill explain ze leetle more.
Payschonce! Nex’ come ze colnpound! Ze
money an’ ze weight an’ ze maizure. I put down
ze leetle sum, ze pound, ze sheelin’, an’ de pence.
See !
£ s. d.
20 5 6
15 10 10
74 12 9
Zare is ze farthin’ which you do not use, yet you
reckong ! It is ze doable compound ! It take ze
two feegaire ! Look—f ! ! Look at ze simpel
additiong an’ ze farthin’ additiong :
d.
47 2f
39 5£
54 4i
What is ze line f? Sacre ! It is ! ” Sellier
threw up his arms again. “It is —damn I ! ! ”
Harman held his laughter, as his friend’s round
swelling eyes glared at him.
‘ ‘ But I will leave out ze farthin’. I will add ze
pence—9 +lo+ 6. Zat is 23. Ze child I haf
taught so well, it smile and mark off ze five,
an’ take on ze 2. It look for my approve. I
shake my head an’ frown sorrowful. I say—not so !
Ze child it stare, it reproof me, but it do not
speak. Its eye say: ‘ Haf you not told me so ? ’
An’ I admit it, but I say ze 25 is ze pence, an’
twelve pence make ze shillin’, and’ we deevide by
ze 12, an’ we get 2 shillin’ an’ one pence ! So we
put down ze one pence, 1, not ze 5, and take on
two —2 ! An’ ze child staire ! An’ I feel ze child
haf wondaire for myself. It look sorree ! Then
one child, who is always inqueesitif, it say:
“Plees, teachaire, why is ze twelve pence ze one
shillin’ ? ” .
An’ I staire, an’ I ask what it say. An’ ze
child repeat. An’ ze class see my deestress. Zay
look at me. Ze rude boy at ze back, he look, an’ I
think I hear him say : ‘’E dos not know ’isself ! ’
An’ I grow red an’ white, an’ want zat boy ! I
grow cold and zen hot! I take ze long breathe,
an’ I scorn ze questiong ! Ze class still stare. I
go on to ze shillin’, it make 29—zat is one pound
nine shillin’, I say quick. Ze class staire more !
I add up ze pounds. Ze first line is 10. I put
down ze nought—o—an’ add ze one—l. Ze class
smile —it haf recover ! But it still wondaire ! I
add up ze nex’ line. It is elevong—ll. Ze pounds
are 110. I haf feenish ! But lam pairspire !
I change ze lessong !
Ze nex’ day an’ every day ! I get ze “Table
Book ”it is called; I look through ze maizures.
I fin’ ze worse an’ worse ! I see ze inch, ze foot,
ze yard ! I fin’ ze yard make ze pole— 5£ ! an’
ze squaire, 30|!! I feel sick in my bed, I sleep
not, it is too much ! I flee from ze bush chil’ ;
L’AnglaiiTl I go back to my beloved France !
where we have ze metre an’ ze ten, ze decimal so
easie ! Ze Engleese techaire he ees a fool ” ?
“But you overlook the intellectual cultivation
our system supplies to the child-mind, Sellier ! ”
Sellier was half across the room to ring for
liquor.
“ ! damn!” he exclaimed The
bell jingled, viciously pulled.
The sleeping selector woke. “I don’t —hie—
min’ if I do, —sh —shanks, —mine’s a beer an’
surrup 1 ”
A. G. Alanson.
Maria’s Boy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The inevitable time arrived when Bonnor left it
too late.
Travers let a flood of moonlight through the
front door just as he reached the foot of the stairs,
and there was nothing left but to run for it. Bon-
nor had hard luck. He had passed through the
swing glass-doors at the end of the back passage a
score of times, but the excitement on this occasion
made him pull when he should have pushed, and
Travers’ hand grabbed his arm before he could
scramble through.
His only chance of escaping recognition lay in
fighting Travers and disabling him. He was the
better boxer and the more powerful man ; but
with a moonlight meeting in a. dark passage there
are no Queensberry rules, and in the blind coun-
ters and/exchanges, Bonnor was hard hit. He
closed to prevent the advantage being followed,
wliile Travers fought on like a cornered cat, and
yelled “Burglars!” 1 with all the frenzy of the
man expecting a bullet through his chest.
The situation was becoming embarrassing to
Bonnor. Mrs. Travers would never become so un-
nerved as to bring a light. He knew that— and
smiled. But the servant might come on the
scene at any moment and put all the fat in the
fire. Bonnor did not know Maria. He had seen
her certainly. Had admired her like all the other
visitors. And had she been employed in any
other house but that of Mrs. Travers, Bonnor
would never have so far forgotten himself as not to
have had a few quiet words with the big hand-
some housemaid who handed round cups of tea with
the air of a Cleopatra.
Had he known her he would have regretted it,
for Maria would have treated him as she had
dozens of other male guests. She would have bled
him of presents to the limit of his patience, and
would tlien have indignantly demanded what sort
of girl he thought she was. The policeman on
the beat, who knew Maria, said she could show
them all points, and he was reckoned an authority.
Bonnor was still struggling when something
white formed in the darkness through the maze of
tangled arms. Then his heart stood, still for a
moment as a woman’s voice sounded. It was only
for a moment though, for the voice was not that of
Travers’ wife, but of Maria.
“ Oh, don’t! Oh, don’t, Mr. Travers, don't! ”
the voice moaned in apparent anguish.
“What do you mean, Maria?” panted the
householder.
Bonnor, still held tightly in the clutch of Travers,
discerned the vignetted figure of the girl throw
itself against the side of the staircase and sob
aloud, and he marvelled at the meaningless demon
stration so much that he almost forgot his own
danger.
“ What do you mean ?” repeated Travers to the
girl. “Call your mistress at once, and ring up the
police.”
Maria gave a shriek that made Bonnor’s blood
run cold. The white figure swerved, and before he
-had time to wonder at the reason, it fell at Travers’
feet, gurgling and imploring in the frenzy of des ■
pair. “ Oh, no, no ! Not that! Oh, God ! Mr.
Travel’s, not the police. Oh, what can I say—how
can I tell you, I—-—” then a fit of sobbing inter-
vened, and the girl at last arose and threw her
long golden hair back in the moonlight, with an
hysterical laugh.
“What do you mean, woman?” persisted
Travers. ‘‘ Do what I tell you at once, instead of
behaving in this way.”
Maria stiffened herself with an effort which
seemed to tear her heart. She was calm now. As
if racked with shame, the words came one by one,
slowly and deliberately: “He is not a robber,
Mr. Travers ; he is my ‘ boy.’ ’
There was the .silence of a second ; then Travers
laughed. Hard and cold though he was, he had
a sense of humor which saved his speeches in the
House from being totally ignored. In his own
way he had admired Maria himself, but the look
she gave him when he pinched her arm once ended
his admiration. Travers regarded the present
situation as interesting, and, wondering whether
the milkman or the policeman had succeeded
where he —pastoralist and M.L.C. —had failed, he
let his captive go. Then, before Bonnor had time
to break away, Travers struck a match and flared
it in his face.
“ You !” lie cried. “Well, I’m !” And
he crossed, chuckling, to the hall-lamp and turned
it full on. Bonnor was still in the comer, crest-
fallen and shamefaced and silent. Maria, with
her snowy robe clinging round her and throwing
up the curves of her splendid form, was still sob-
bing against the stair-rail. Travers, with his
evening-dress crumpled and dirty, stood grinning
under the lamp. Both he and Bonnor were think-
ing, how much handsomer was Maria than Mrs.
Trayers.
‘ ‘ You —Bonnor ? ” repeated Travers; ‘ ‘ you ! I
wondered why you grew so friendly with me all of
a sudden ; and it seems it was Maria.”
Bonnor smiled in a sickly way. He was no
actor, as Maria told Mrs. Travers later on.
“And all the time I thought you were coming
to get the strength of the currency-question ! ”
Bonnor tried to grin again.
“The ‘appreciation of gold ’ —in Maria’s hair—
was your principle- eh ?”
“Ye-es,” said Bonnor. It was the first time
he had spoken, and the moment the word was out
it sounded terribly wrong and unconvincing.
“By Jove!” continued Travers, turning side-
ways from Maria, who lifted one hand from her
face and frowned vigorously at tm mystified
Bonnor, “ this is the primest joke I’ve run across
for some time. How my wife will laugh when I
tell her.”
Travers laughed, and his laugh this time brought
back Bonnor’s old-time confidence. He was him-
self again, ready for a battle of wits witli any
man, and Maria smiled approval as he pleaded,
“ For God’s sake, old man, don’t do that ! Think
of the result. I would be a ruined man.”
Then Maria came again to her master, with out-
stretched hands and the anguish of a Magdalene
in her features, and the top buttons of her gown
loosened ; and Travers’ heart was touched. He
saw Bonnor out of the front-door, joking with
him and calling him the scoundrel he did not know
he was.
Maria gave Bonnor another look, and he kept
Travers talking on the step while she slipped up-
stairs and reassured Mrs. Travers..
Bonnor walked home elated, satisfied, confident,
but puzzled. Half-a-dozen times he stopped at
the end of a long attempt to explain the position,
and asked himself : “ But why the devil did that
girl call me her boy ? ”
He knew next day, when Mrs. Travers met him
on the Block and commented scathingly on the
density of men generally and Bonnor and her hus-
band in particular. He realised the reason more
acutely when Maria requested the loan of £2o—on
the understanding that she was not to explain to
Travers that he, Bonnor, was not her “ boy.”
She was a smart girl, Maria, and Bonnor never
parted with money with better grace than when
she married old Johnson and he sent her a pair of
diamond earrings as a special dividend. Old
Johnson was 72, and was generally credited
with owning five terraces and a city pub. Before
Maria went to the altar she discovered that
rumor had not lied.
Travers still chuckles sometimes over the night
he came home and found that Bonnor was Maria’s
boy ; but Bonnor never sees the joke.
M‘G.
Sydney “ Bung,” in a spirit of heartfelt
admiration, gave a rich purse to the inspector
whose duty it was durinsr many years to sample
and test liquors sold in hotels and pubs. The
inspector has retired on pension and goes ’Ome
for a trip. >.
Woman the weaker vessel ! At a recent
Ballarat inquest upon an infant it was deposed
that the mother thereof, a mere girl, gave birth to
the child during the night and then went to sleep
again, and that her mother and sister, sleeping in
the same room, were unaware of the event till the
following morning, when it was found that
the child—annoyed at such indifference to its
existence —had promptly abandoned same.


STRAIGHT TALE
BY SYDNEY PEOPLE
ABOUT
.. DOAN’S.
I
))1J
%
')))))
)))) /,
\ /
V 5)
m§
’-U'.
->r
's/?.
Q
m
m
vJ
K
V
w\
w
m
a®
HEARD IN TRAINS, ’BUSES—EVERYWHERE ANDALWAYS-DOAN 9 S.
When incidents like the following occur here in Sydney, and
Sydney men and Sydney women relate their experiences in a
Sydney paper for the benefit of Sydney people, the genuineness of
the statements cannot be doubted. They have the ring of truth
about them that there is no getting away from.
Here is the case of Mrs. Fred. Russell, 7 St.
Andrews-street, Balmain “My husband has
been bad three or four years with kidney trouble.
He was such a sufferer that he could not stand up
straight, and all his movements were fraught with
’great pain. Unable to sleep at night, he usod to
try all mannas- of positions, and would get up next
morning thoroughly done up and unrefreshed.
The best position for him to lie in was face down-
ward, but he would soon have to change that.
Sometimes the pains were a lot worse than others.
To stand up straight was worse than hard work.
When well, before he got bad I mean, he used to
do heavy work, but he had to give up, his back
having well-nigh crippled him. He went to hos-
pitals one after another ; and when they failed to
give him ease from his terrible pain he tried all
manner of remedies advertised, excepting one.
We spent a lot of money in plasters and liniments
and other things for outward application,
but he was still as bad as ever after using
them —aye, worse. It is now over 12 months
since that lucky day when we got Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills at Newman’s Pharmacy,
King-street. At that time he was unable
WHY?
to sit down or lie down, and when he walked
he held his back all the time. His pains were
frightful. Well, the first few doses of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills rid him of those terrible
pains, and after a time he became much improved.
In' all he took si-x boxes. Then he left off the
medicine, and has taken none since, and that is
over six months ago. A few days ago he said to
me, ‘You never hear me complain of pains now ;
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are simply grand.’ ”
Then thei’e is the case of Mrs. Spear, of 32
Good sell-street, St. Peters, Sydney, who suffered
for a good while with her back, a constant dull
ache about the kidneys, who was at last cured by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
And there are the cases of Mrs. M. Isaacs,
21 Albion-streeV Surry Hills; Mrs. Gregg, 9
Enmore-street, Newtown ; Joseph Grieve, 18
Albion-street, Surry Hills, - Mr. E. Hansen, 41
Rosser-street, Balmain ; Mrs. F. May, Excelsior-
street, Woollahra; and hundreds of others, all
cured by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills of illness,
the full facts of their cases having already been
published in the Sydney papers.
AND THEY ARE ALL SYDNEY PEOPLE.
Is there not food for reflection in the above, for anyone who is ill ? Do other' medicines publish
in Sydney straight out, honest statements from Sydney people ? No ; they publish names of people
from some far away town.
Why?
✓
Be Sure You Get DOAN’S. The kind your neighbors endorse. Don’t accept
a substitute. All chemists and storekeepers sell them at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or if you
cannot obtain them locally they will be sent on receipt of price by Foster-M‘Clellan Co., 76 Pitt-st.,
Sydney, Sole Proprietors.
Itchiness of the Skin.
Evhr have any irritation of the skin? There are
many forms of it, any of them bad enough to tax
vour patience. Hemmorrhoid, a plague of the
night; no rest for the sufferer from that com-
plaint. Eczema, too. Hives don’t sound dan-
gerous, but they cause much misery to those
unfortunate enough to be troubled with them.
Doan’s Ointment is “a wonder” for any such
trouble. Any troublesome irritation of the skin
can’t resist its healing, soothing influence. Lots
of Sydney people know this now.
Mrs. M. A. Carter, Waratah, Orange-street,
Randwick, this city, writes a most enthusiastic
letter as to how her young daughter, aged 10 years,
was cured of Eczema by Doan’s Ointment. Mrs.
Carter thought her daughter contracted the disease
at school. It affected her scalp, which was terribly
inflamed and all broken out, which irritated her
terribly. She obtained some of Doan’s Ointment
at Newman’s Pharmacy, King-street, and after
thoroughly washing the child’s scalp applied it.
The result was the scalp entirely healed in' a few
days, and left no scar, much to their joy.
“ I have also use:} the ointment myself for irri-
tation of the skin —a sort of Eczema—and it has
done me equally as much good as it did my
daughter. You are at liberty to publish these
facts at any time, and I will only be too pleased
to verify the statements should I be called upon
to do so.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all Diseases of
the Skin, Eczema, Piles, Hives, Insectßites, Sores,
Chilblains, &c. It is perfectly safe and very effec-
tive. Very frequently two or three boxes have
made a complete cure of chronic cases that have
not yielded to other remedies for years.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all dealers at 2s. 9d.
per box, or will be posted on receipt of price by
the proprietors, Foster-M‘Clellan Co. 76 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
But be sure it is DOAN’S.
The Rhyme of Rudyard K.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
[Kipling’s head is evidently as- swollen as his farming and
grazing knowledge is ludicrously vague. He talks thus :
“ We ” (that is, ME and the Empire) “ want you Austra-
lians to stay over here and help Africa along.” “ Banjo ”
Paterson pointed out the fact that African land-settle-
ment inducements are not in the same street with Aus-
tralian, and Kipling turned the conversation on to
artesian-water subjects, lost himself, and got out of the
difficulty by repeating that “ We” (ME and the Empire)
“ wantfyou Australians,” &c. Kipling should evidently
be kept in a cool place—and it might be wise to exclude
air. Wherefore Rudyard speaks:—] n
I am the casual cuss who made the British Empire
known—
The Geographical poet, with a line for the littlest
stone,
And a rhyme for the largest island, and a page for
the tropic sea,
And a comma for a continent, and a column for a
sea.
lam the Empire’s bagman. I barrack for British
trade;
And I teach that the solar system for British
trade was made;
For the sake of ME and the Empire—l, the Ab-
sent-Minded, went
And got the fee-simple of all the stars, and the
deeds of the firmament.
I have taken the North Wind by and large, and
tailed and ear-marked him;
I have shot the zephyr on the wing in the twilight
cool and dim;
I have faked the brands of the virtues all from the
Cape to the Dogger Bank;
I have yarded God, and branded him “JBover
E ” on the flank.
I wrote a great Recessional (tlio’ I don’t want any
recesh ;
For even above my love of steam I love heaps of
mangled flesh),
And when I wrote of Dominion that is over palm
and pine
I seemed to copy Emerson—but I thought the line
was mine.
When I write of an army coward —’tis from Ire-
land that he comes ;
And he’s led to be slain at the dawn to the roll of
good English drums;
An 1, although I never have seen a fight, you have
only me to thank
For the knowledge that courage is British—and all
the vices are Yank.
I put on my specs in Port Phillip, and I spat on
Sydney Quay,
But I’m tie bloke that hits it in once—no serving
my time for me !
And I cleaned ray nails over Brisbane, and I
sneezed for an hour at Perth,
And then I came home on the English mail and I
wrote of the Big Wide Earth.
So Rhodes and ME are partners —he sticks to the
boodling side ;
But I run the rhyme-department, and I cut my
swathe very wide.
There’s ME and Rhodes and the Empire—and the
last has me to thank,
For I’ve yarded God and branded him “ JB over
E ” on the flank.
v.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The House of Living Death.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Constance Clyde describes the place where the
o.d inhabitants moulder :
Went to see the Old Men’s Home at Rookwood t’other
day ; there the City of the Dead is overlooked from the
slopes by the City of the Still Alive. It resembles a city
because the Asylum is built in disjointed fragments
facing one another in uncertain squares and oblongs.
Some of the buildings are still unfinished, and there is
room for hundreds more on the surrounding wide tract of
country wher.eon the State has some vague intention of
settling a large number of its various charitable institu-
tions. As this looks like a practical scheme, reducing
working expenses, and with nothing against its adoption,
it is not likely to be carried into effect.
The Matron, who is superintendent and manager in
one, is a handsome, stylish woman, who gives to the aged
derelicts the same sweeping bow which she formerly
bestowed on the nobility. A smile from a handsome,
duchess-like woman must console somewhat, and keen
competition goes on for a glance from the Hostess-in-
Chief, to which the inmates respond with their long-
departed Court bow, or a respectful, front-lock pull. By
some happy accident the State has put the right person
in the right place. Writer cannot explain how it hap-
pened. The State generally moves in a mysterious way,
but sometimes it “ gets there ” in spite of itself. Never-
theless, it is curious to reflect that an elderly gentleman
takes care of the lapsed girls at Parramatta Industrial
Home, while a young and stylish woman presides over the
male octogenarians at Rookwood.
We traverssd the various small buildings, and saw rows
of beds with red and yellow quilts, bedclothes folded
military fashion. We strolled through this city of eleven
hundred old men, and beheld them at plain wooden
tables feasting on tea and treacle and hunks of bread, and
passed other lots waiting their turn to feast. We saw the
kitchen, and admired the wisdom of the Government in
giving such &n ordinary-sized apartment for the use of
eleven hundred men, while a certain State institution that
harbours 13 girls is supplied with a Brobdingnagian
boiler and brick ovens large enough to cook colossal
dinners, if there were anyone to cook them for. We
strolled round the grounds, where one of the inmates was
acting as pedlar, hawking round a tray of sweets and
small goods. Among the latter were needles and hair-
pins. Presumably, the latter were purchased as memen-
toes of the missus left behind.
“ I’d be all right if I had a wife.” The remark penetrated
to us t n-ough a loose crowd, waiting to go in to tea. The
sexagenarian spoke, not as if referring to a Maria in New-
i ngton, but as if he would like to contemplate a new matri-
monial departure. It is a disgrace to civilisation that
Darby and Joan'should require to separate in order to
seek shelter from the State. Nevertheless there is no
denying that the average old man bears his sorrow with
fortitude. If poverty and want of work and herding
together six in a room conduce to cementing family affec-
tions, then the longer these fine old institutions continue
the better.
The old men’s hospital seems to be always pretty full,
with a large proportion of the foreign element —and also,
curiously enough, a small sprinkling of diseased youth.
A Chinese doctor had been in bed fourteen years. He' was
a clever man, and quite prepared to cure the entire
eleven hundred if someone would only cure him first. A
jovial German lay reading, with numerous small trophies
slung round his couch. It seems that if the worthy Hans
picked up a pebble, or a bit of worsted or nickel, or a frag-
ment of hair from the man in the next bed, he could
fashion them into articles of wondrous beauty. He wore
spectacles and a large smile and a Bible in front of him,
and the vicinity of his bed looked like a doll’s washing-
day. Most of the men read—newspapers by preference.
The two favourite works were the Bible and a certain
Sydney weekly which does not like to see itself approv-
ingly mentioned in itself.
A dear old friend was encountered by us in the shape
of the church. This edifice is the Macquarie-street St.
Stephen’s galvanised-iron church, whioh in the early
fifties was brought out in an emigrant ship, probably with
many of the same old gentlemen who worship there. For
a time this venerable edifice turned itself into a library,
and resided in Sydney. Now it combines church and
library. Also it - has become broad-minded in its old
age, and harbours all sects in turn. The Anglicans and
Roman Catholics are provided for by the State, but the
other religions have to do without their loaves and fishes.
For entrance to the Home the regulation age is 60, but
men who are certified weak may enter before that age,
though if they cannot contrive to remain ill till their 60th
birthday is attained they are liable to be shown the door
till age renders them once more eligible. Like most other
institutions, this was originally intended for a Reforma-
tory. Henry Parkes seems to have had reformatories on
the brain. Whenever there was a bit of gum and mortar
to be used, Sir’enry had them fashioned into a reforma-
tory, but as he never seems to have had the heart to put
anyone into them they gradually got used for other pur-
poses. Nevertheless, he evidently knew what this bright
young country wants most.
Sentiment rules the world. In the Parramatta George-
street Asylum, the old gentlemen inhabit an old mill
which has* been condemned, but the occupants cling so
strenuously to their dear old home, and the ancient dust
and time-hallowed mouldiness thereof, that no one has
had the heart to remove them into a new, clean building.
In another institution, (Liverpool), the occupants are per-
mitted to build a number of little whares or humpies at
the back of the Asylum, where they make believe that they
are still sundowners and are camping out.
Immaculata.
[FOR THE BU LLETIN.]
“It wouldn’t be so hard to meet her,” said he,
with a sudden impulse towards confidence, to the
quiet little chaplain of the gaol, “if she was a
different kind of woman. But she never had any
failings—except the failing of being too good ! ”
The chaplain was human, after all, and he had
a wife of his own. No rejoinder rose readily to
his lips.
Kelso had got his five years over something con-
nected with sheepskins. He was a man in
a fairly good position, and to his acquaint-
ances in general there appeared no extenuating
circumstance, except the doubtful one of a sud-
denly and abnormally-developed greed for gain.
Each month in the early part of his term seemed
an eternity. Each month towards the end of it
slipped past with increasing velocity. And the
thought that haunted him in these latter days was
the meeting with bis wife.
She had believed in him until it was impossible
to believe longer. She wrote to him occasionally,
explaining that she was too busy to write oftener,
stating that she was not in want, and had a few
boarders, and that the children were growing and
went to school. She neither exhorted, reviled,
nor complained, as other women might have done.
If she had, he fancied it would have made things
easier.
When—a few days earlier than he expected —the
door of the prison closed him out, he took a second-
class ticket to Bellamy, and turned his steps
homewards. He might have done otherwise had
he not felt so utterly stranded and nerveless.
Also, in a numb kind of way, he thought he would
like to see the “ kids.”
It was a sultry afternoon. The well-known
house, with its orderly flower-beds, spotless
window-curtains and white steps, seemed mutely
to reproach him. His wife was dressed in a black
gown, plain enough for a nun’s. A few streaks of
grey showed in her abundant hair; she struck
him as looking older, more imposing. She re-
ceived him not unkindly, yet with a restraint that
in another woman he would have taken for ner-
vousness.
The youngsters, most of them, recognised him,
and, drawn by the attraction to childhood which
was a part of the man’s personality, soon clustered
round his chair like bees round a honey-pot. His
wife’s face relaxed.
Then the bedroom-door pushed open, and a little
figure in a white frock, with sleep-laden blue eyes
and pillow-tossed yellow hair and bare pink feet,
toddled unsteadily out, and, catching sight of the
unfamiliar figure* in the familiar chair, made a
swaying grab at the black dress, with a little cry.
“Muv-ver!”
The hot blood rushed over Kelso’s shrunken,
prison-grey face, a 3 he had never expected it to
rush again.
“ Marcia /”
She caught up the child hurriedly, and faced
him. Her voice was tense with something that
was neither scorn, nor bitterness, nor entreaty—
yet Suggested all these—and more.
“I've fathered and mothered yours for five
years,” she said. “Now, you can father this
one!”
And he did.
JOHN CAREW.
WhenN.S.W. Govt, started to clean up
the filth-accumulation of years in the various
quarantined areas at the beginning of the plague-
scare, it was in a violent hurry to finish the job,
and so engaged an army of all sorts and conditions
of men at high wages. (Then a scared com-
munity cursed the Government for not hurrying
twice as fast. If the plague had got worse it
would have been thrown out of office for not
hurrying 25 times as fast. The plague having
been stamped out by the Government’s hurry a
shamed community now swears it wasn’t fright-
ened at all, and asks what the foolish hurry was
about. To return to the subject—) Accommodation
was necessarily limited, and in some of the worst
places the workers were not allowed to leave for
fear of carrying infection. Some hundred or so
men were camped on one of the Darling Harbor
wharves, their beds being made up on a straw-
covered floor. The shady characters among the
men had a pleasant habit of avenging a slight
from any individual by igniting the straw under
his bed. The “boss” of the gang was so afraid
of fire that he threatened to hose the next person
who struck a match. Immediately his back was
turned another fire started, and the enraged mana-
ger, with an assistant, .turned the big fire-hose
belonging to the premises on to the men. The jet
was powerful enough to knock over anybody it
might strike ; and, driving the whole gang into a
corner of the shed, the boss thoroughly washed
them down—the only wash, as he grimly re-
marked, that many of them had while under his
eye. No matches were lighted after that. A
'■.urious dodge of some of the cleansers was to
simulate, as far as they knew how, the symptoms
of plague—for which everybody, naturally enough,
was watching his neighbor—when they would be
separated for “observation” (on full pay, of
ourse).


Gives Push and Energy
Steadies the Nerves, Gives Tone to the
Stomach, Prevents 111 Effects of Extreme Heat.
“Puts the ‘Co* Into You”
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
QL
“I am a professional cyclist.”
“In training and racing in the extreme heat of a Queensland summer, which
requires a heavy expenditure of nervous energy and often leaves one thoroughly
exhausted, I have found Ayer’s Sarsaparilla of the greatest benefit.
“It makes you have a good appetite, tones up the stomach, steadies the
nerves, and puts the ‘go’ into you. I tell you, lam a great friend to Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla.”
Mr. F. E. Shaw, of Edward St., Brisbane, Queensland, a cyclist well known in
connection with the “Red Bird Bicycle,” sends us this letter together with a
photograph from which the above illustration is made. This is another reason
why Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is called
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Such a testimonial shows how valuable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is to those who
have to work hard. It removes all feeling of exhaustion, braces you up, makes
our work easier, gives strength to the muscles, refreshes and invigorates, and,
est of all, takes out every impurity from the blood.
t
AYER’S S arsaparilla
The Greatest of All Nerve Tonics.
AYER’S PILLS cure all forms of liver trouble.
FOR
24 Years
OWBRIDGE’S LUNG TONIC
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
Empire, for Diseases of the Throat and Lungs.
When you ask for
jQuiglMc
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should v ever' be without this
invaluable Remedy, which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared, by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull,
Sold in bottles, at Is. lid ., 2s. 9 d., 4s. 6 d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Stores, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
copraioirr.
*
c
&
r
S
s=^
m
Q*)
I3V3CDF 2> INJ T JE3 !
NICHOLSON & CO.,
Have pleasure in announcing they have been appointed
SOLE AGENTS
for the WORLD-RENOWNED
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS.
These Organs have been before the Australian public for 30 years, and
ARE STILL THE BEST.
A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF ELEGANT STYLES FOR CHURCH AND PARLOUR
NOW OPENED. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists to the i _
Sole Agents: NICHOLSON & CO., Sydney, F and Perth.
Giro
uLH
n
IMWM EASE
mm raran
im
P£ffrUM£
mn
INVALUABLE TO
, SINGEBS X SPEAKERS
cfce
TO/y ' s
IRISHMOSS
FOR
-The best remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
Ask for Banning ton's
and see that you ge t it.


A FEW QUOTATIONS
...FOR...
Cycle Tyres
£ s. d.
Pneumatic Detachable Tyres (on Dunlop
principle), including Cover and Inner
Tube , 16 6
Outer Tyre, Canvas and Rubber,. 15s. and 0 18 6
Outer Rubber Covers 0 8 6
Inner Tube, complete, ■with Valve ... 0 7 0
Inner Tube, not joined, without Valve... 0 5 0
Re-rubbering Old Canvas ... 12s 6d and 015 0
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy, 2in. wide 0 5 0
Wearing Strips, Extra Heavy, attached. 0 7 6
Wearing Strips, Regular, wide ... 0 3 0
Wearing Strips, Regular, attached ... 0 5 6
Dunlop Valve 0 16
Victor Rims 0 6 C
Palmer.Tyre, Single Tube Fabric ... 1 5 0
Rubber Solution and Patching Rubber.
BEST QUALITY OUTER COVERS GUAR-
ANTEED FOR 12 MONTHS.
Lists Sent on Application.
We do Repairs.
PERDRIAU &CO.
268 and 270 GEORGE ST.,
m
n
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Go. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND . .
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
THE WORTHINGTON
....IS THE ORIGINAL....
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND.
Sole Australasian Representatives:
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
WORTH INGTOH.
TRADE MARK.
32 and 34 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W
■■ 0
•t?
PULLEY BLOCKS.
Hydraulic and Screw
Jacks
REPRESENTED IN AUSTRALIA BY
BENNIE, TEARE & CO.,'Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Ooolgardie.
TO
100 TONS.
TACKLE
60
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W- O- BT,DRTT)G'E] «Sc GO.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
4Q YOiUi STHJUMT, .sy |)NBp?
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post train, all the
mn
irge
m
nm
THE MOST
3SS
NUTRITIOUS.
9
V?"vV =
r ‘\ :
I -
COMFORTING.
GOA
* 4V,
AKFAST-SUPPER.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO. LTD.
PASTEURISED
BUTTER • ••
The same remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
cream consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
1 to say only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value bf the process ; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less" daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored blitter and the
ordinary make is only - x d per lb It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if, he will not, Send your Orders to lIS, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas 01 for ordinal y use
ctili any price. The famous Berry ” brand JPasteurised butter can be obtained only fiom this Company.
bad butter is clear
H. PATESON, Manager,
Harbor-street, Sydney.
I)
&
aliimldfeM
Galkin’s Automatic Cupel
Machine.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
(Dining machinery, Steam Engines and goilers.
SOLE AGENTS for
F. W. BRAUN & GO.,
Los Angeles, Cal., US A-
MAKERS of
ASSAYERS’ and CHEMISTS’ CUPEL MACHINES.
Will make 600 cupels of uniform size and
density in an hour.
Burners, BSow-pipe Ou
All Styles of Cupel Moulds carried in Stock In Sydney.
Write for Descriptive Catalogues.
n
mn
m
i
m
“DUPLEX”
Vertical & Horizontal.
Suitable for every- Pumping
Purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Yalves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. * SONS L!«™
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHO’S BAKING POWDER.
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
head office: WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
r-sf a blessing in every family.
HOLLOWAY’S FILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 528 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
ECOND-HAND
AND
EW FURNITURE
(Best Quality).
s
M
BUY FROM US AND
SAVE 50 PER CENT.
£1 Saved is
to £5 Earnsd!
Every requisite for the Furnishing of the HOWE ef best
quality at fully 50 per cent, less than prices ehoryssl stse-
where. Call and inspect.
JNO. C. LOVELL & CO.,
27S George-sfc. (8 <••«! past Hunter-sb.), JfC*K*r.
Telephone 1023.
