

McEWAN’S
*
-
\ T\/m>o T
Absolutely
Pure,
therefore
“ The Standard
of
Highest Purity.”
107
Mining and
Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR-
Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ amp GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
G
u
Sawing»! Wood-Working Machinery
VERTICAL and HORIZONTAL BAND MILLS HOLD THE WORLD’S RECORD.
Sole
The Most Up-to-Date Machines for
ail Purposes.
Send for Prices and Particulars.
WINE!
WINE !
WINE !
Bukkulla Vineyard (Inverell)
PLANTED 1849.
OIPEST
**SAIN AUSTRALIA.
SSST Send for Price List
Mention this paper.
Eaton Grant & Co. Limited,
263 KENTSTREET, SYDNEY.
Established 1831.
That’s All!
OKIE’S
A 1 WHISKY.
SANDEMAN’S
AUSTRALIAN WINES.
ALL HOTELS A«n LICENSED GR OCB R S.
HOBART.
finmm
KM*
JJOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
™'p , ' ( , )U, » G - EOR ,GE HOTEL, opposites
Hilda Railway Station and Cable Trams. Largest Hotel
Accommodation in Victoria. INCLUSIVE TARIFF for
Boarders, 9s. per Day, or 2 Guineas per Week.
oo
i’ll Try It
The Only Certain
Moustache Pro-
ducer. ■' ’
Capillarine I
Pouted (undercover)
toanypart of Austra-
lasia or New Zealand.
I’Hcc, 10s. fid.
Sole Agents :
'm
The Result
Craig & Aitken, 680-682 George- st., Sydney
PERPETM DITER.
ALL your letters, bills and papers should
be DATED! This Dater adjusts to ANY
desired date INSTANTLY, and will save you"
time, money and trouble. It is Rapid,
Legible, and costs practically nothing.
Dates from 1900 to 1905 ; also prints re-
ceived, answered, paid, etc. Price with
Self-Inking Pad, Two Shilling’s (post free).
DATING STAMP CO., Box 1402 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
The Leading Belt oi Amairalia.
Unsurpassed for Durability and Cheapness.
Used exclusively by theN.S.W. Government.
Prices and Samples Free to ly address. '
J. C. LUDOWICT& SOM, LTD.,
1.1.7 "XTorarls: Street,
SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Queensland; Perth, W. Aus-
tralia ; Hobart, Tasmania ; Adelaide, S. Australia.
“ Tales of the System.”
PRICE Is.
per Post Is. Sd.
SEND KOI? A
BOOK CATALOGUE
of RARE, CURIOUS,
and LAUGHABLE BOOKS.
As advertised in the Illustrated London Standard.
Post Free from
Acme Publishing Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
-J&h
How Do! May I send yon
my
Extra Special
Book Catalogue ?
WILL ANDRADE,
1201 BOURKE-ST., MELBOURNE.
GOOD, PURE WHISKY IS SCARCE.
HIGHLAN
WHISKY
IS GOOD AND PURE.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOVE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
THE G-iR-lE-A-T . . .
CASCADE ALE
IS HERE TO STAY.
Sole Agents for N.S.W. : PLUMMER, LOYE, and CO., 249 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
A
■ms
*
iftf v -
ami
m
TOBACCO
n
BEST AMERICAN MAKE. FINEST AMERICAN LEAF.
. . Obtainable of all Leading Tobacconists .. .
PHOTOS
rom Life, for lovers of Art, Beauty, and
-'hie > Carefully Selected Assortments,
Cabinets or Stereos, with Illustrated
Catalogue and Minatures, 3s, 6s, 10s, 20s.
Money Order or Cheque.
ENGLISH or FRENCH BOOKS*
R. 6ENNCRT,
89c Faubourg, St. Martin, Paris, Franoe
THE WORLD-RENOWNED
Ediswan - Lamp.
ECONOMY IN-
- - CURRENT
LONGT life.
Equality of Light.
COMPLETE RELIA-
BILITY,
Have no Worthless
Imitations.
THonmg
United Electric Light
Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch: 16 Carring-fcon-street.
WYNYAKD SQUARE. SYDNEY.
Q’nsland Depot-Central Buildin s Edward-st., Brisbunt
The Bulletin
Vol. 21.—N0. 1072. J
[Saturday, September 1, IyOO.
at fhe Genera! Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a "Newspaper.


PERIODICALS BY POST,
at cheap rates.
C wHUH,r/H Masazinb, Harmsworth's, Royal, Harrow**,
omvKR, 7s. per year.
Pearson’s, Strand; Windsor, Widb World, Enolmh
Illustrated, Munsry, Talk, 9s. per year.
ALL POST FBEE. Stamps or Postal Notrs.
syosmi
fhe Bulletin publications.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses, with Other
Verses:
By Will H. Ogilvik. Third Edition. Silk
Cloth, gilt top, silk'marker, 220 pp., 4s. t»d ,
post free. *** A eharrhing presentation
volume.
The Hidden Tide:
A Selection of Verses by Rodekic
No. I. of The Bulletin Booklets. Pam-
phlot Bvo., Is. 9d., post free. Out of Print.
Two large-paper copies remain, 11a., post
free.
The Ways of Many Waters:
By E. J. Beads'. Buckram, gilt top; 55.,
post free. *** Australia’s best book of sea
and sailor verse.
Hits, Skits, and Jingles :
By W. T. Goodge. Paper, 2s. 10d., post
free. *** First-class for recitation.
Maoriland and Other Verses:
By Arthur H. Adams. Buckram, gilt
top ; 55., post free. *** TTie beat book of
Maoriland verse yet published.
On Our Selection:
By A. H. Davis (“ Steele Rudd ”). With
about eighty illustrations by Mahony,
Lambert. Vincent, Leist,, Fisher and
Full wood ;-(is. post-free. *** "The j oiliest
book yet printed in Australia.”
isrSupplied direct from The Bulletin Office by
return mail in exchange for stamps (of any
Australasian province), postal notes; or P. 0.0.
for amounts stated.
Sole Wholesale Agents :
Edwards, Dun-lod & Co., Limited, Sydney ak» Brisßasb.
liUN<
THROAT, the VOICE
. . THE . .
Great Antiseptic
Remedy
for the Cure of
Coughs ! Colds!
■Bronchitis!
arid .
Influenza!
md the Prevention
of Coiisumption.
A. The Larynx, or organ, o£
voice.
B. The Trachea or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected lung.
of one of the lungs..
SUITED
for
OLD and YOUNG,
and
Invaluable to
SINGERS
and
PUBLIC
SPEAKERS.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES (Registered).
. . . Contain NO cocainr or othrr poisonous tlrur/ ...
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS, in Tins, 1s 6d ; from the Proprietor, _G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queenslam
free on receipt of stamps.
Sydney Depot: 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
THE RED PAGE.
The Ink-Black Art.
I AM the M.D., the Master Mage. lam told
that there are in broad Australia a hundred
thousand tyros in the Ink-Black Art of
writing something which shall not be too
unlike literature. I am asked to shut my eyes
and watch the long procession defiling past me—
eager youths, innocent maidens, men and women
cramped in middle age, veterans .whose paralysed
fingers will scarce hold the pen—denizens of city
and bush caught together in the terrible net of the
Idea that some day, somewhere, somehow, they
will write something worth printing, possibly (O,
my God !) worth paying for. lam instructed to
feel a wave of infinite pity come over me as I gaze.
And I am desired, as M.D. and Master Mage, to
whisper to these neophytes the horrid secrets
which I have learnt in my Black Book of the
Pharmacopoeia, that perchance they may not .soil
their souls to the Scribblers’ Devil in vain.
Thus doth the Master
inuruct the Neophyte
in the drawing of
Aubrey Beardsley.
I hear and obey. My Neophyte, lend me your
ears !
* 9 *
You are, let me suppose, an ingenuous youth
with a bubbling brain-pan, and you wish to be a
writer, perhaps a professional writer ? You de-
sire to shake the world with' the rolling thunder of
reverberating Macaulayese ; to titillate it by the
delicate stimulant of verse with an incisive edge
which shall penetrate the public hide? Perchance
the tragic drama attracts you ? Or comedy, with
the moral of “What cannot learning and a wife now
do?” spread delicately over three well-builded
acts to set the papers talking ? Is your dream a
lyric whose lines ring mellow as the string of
golden bells on a nautcli-girl’s anklet ? or a patri-
otic ode. wherein the voice of a nation roars defi-
ance at the massed millions of a frowning foe ?
Listen, my Neophyte ! Be not discouraged by
small initial difficulties, for all these your desires
are within the reach, of the trained writer.
“Trained” —I use it in the athletic sense, to
imply concentration and development of a power
to the extremest notch of original ability, and the
art of wielding power at that acme in the perform-
ance. of a task. You write, my Neophyte, with your
brain; and your training must be directed toward
the' development of a highly-specialised power of
discharge in certain collections of neurons, which
we call cerebral centres. You may aid this dis-
charge by the paralysis of the inhibiting or con-
trolling centres, but in addition need to
“ riffle the sjiuice.” (as miners say), so that the
rushing stream of superfluous energy will not
carry off the lighter gold. The life you shall lead
is not a “healthy” life; that hackneyed mens
sana in corpore sano is out of date in our Art. The
healthy body overloads the mind (a mind which
needs to be at its highest" only in one parti-
cular spot, or group of spots, at a time),
weighs it down under a peine forte et
dure of grilled steak, 16-mile walks, and
domestic bliss. Not from the mens sana come the
r savage flame-pictures sketched against the hell-
smoke of Krakatoa, or the operative glimpses
where the very mystery of life itself lies quivering
for an instant before the scarlet jet of an artery
floods its image off the retinal plate.
“ Health -pah ! I tell you the greatest work
nas always a pathological foundation ; it is born
in agony and bloody sweat. The healthy normal
brain, with a thousand channels of outflow, can-
not specialise or cull till a group of centres jets
force like a hydraulic nozzle eating its way into a
hill-side. You need to stop those waste channels,
to concentrate your “ head ” on a single flume, and
then—to have your nozzle clean. . Know that
your normal man is a creature of physiological
control in his most ordinary desires and needs.
But to make a bull (and the Irish faculty for bulls
is but an expression of the thousand channels of
outflow in the Celtic brain which forbid concen-
tration on a single idea), brain stimulation is for
the greater part a question of inhibition. My
Neophyte, learn to inhibit! So. may you employ
your producing neurons and simultaneously re-
press your controlling centres, so that even when
satiated the poetic neurons or what not will dis-
charge unchecked. Is this obscure ? I speak of
the Ink-Black Art. Shall Ibe M.D. and Master
Mage to no purpose ?
To inhibit—that is the problem. Theoretically,
it is simple; but m these elementary days ot
brain knowledge even I must be content to show
you a roundabout solution, an empirical solution,
with the very variable factor of individual per-
sonality always ready to rum the equation,
Nevertheless, my Neophyte, listen !
Most great writers—most writers in fact, so they
be professional—have a system, though it may be
practised unconsciously. The Gargantuan feast-
mgs, the torpor, the feverish sunrise work of
Alexandre Dumas in his literary-supply days ;
the fasting and exercise of Bishop Butler; the
midnight absinthe and grotesque sensuality of
Paul Verlaine;—these were all based on (probably
unconscious) principle! To eliminate the gross
body altogether is impossible, but we may per-
chance attack it with our inhibiting neurons—-we
may take captive that body and set our inhibiting
centres to guard lest it revolt. The captivity, my
Neophyte ! is always to be in proportion to the
effect desired—a column on the prospects of the
wheat-season does not require absinthe and a
French dinner with Suez cigarettes,,. That is a
treatment which would better suit the psycho-
physiological school of Hubert Crachanthor.pe.
It would make a mess of the wheat-article. So-
to the Art ! !
* ■* *» *
Firstly, of Tobacco. This is the prime factor of
the literary life. You smoke, my Neophyte—you
smoke cut tobacco. Be bold, be bold, but not too
bold ! Not all tobacco is your inhibito-stiiuulant.
You must have your special brands, and you must
discover them for yourself. Do you inhale a pipe ?
When writing of, for example, the tragic side of
city life it is well to preface by inhaling one pipe
of heavy plug —it gives contour and perspective to
the misery. Cigars are of a lyric or essay type if
of moderate strength. (I speak only of good
cigars.) The “long breakfast” Manila (lasting
from after breakfast till nearly lunch-time) makes
an excellent medium for harmonious descriptive
work where no special colour-touches are re-
quired. Curiously enough, a black Trichinopoly
to follow (in place of lunch) will often give
mellow pathos. For a light novel a sufficient sup-
ply of medium Batavians or Manilas should always
be laid in, Havanas being more suited for respect-
able business articles. Cigarettes ? They occasion-
ally produce light, airy verse with a pretty rhyme
in it, when inhaled in the company of a flippant,
smart-tongued woman who smokes but does not
inhale. Under such circumstances they yield a
certain femininity of touch—a delicate insight to
those middle depths where the pseudo-motives
lie. I refer, of course, to the cigarette pur et
"simple; such modifications as the 1 Havana
cigarette, the mingling of opium or musk, are dis-
tinct in themselves.
Secondly, of Alcohol. This is highly import-
ant, and the Americans understand it better than
you, my Australian Neophyte. Some day, per-
chance, a literary barman, of the type of the
urbane, clean-shaven jugglers who dispense busi-
ness acumen and hilarity at the Hoffman House,
N.Y., will stand behind a well-fitted Australian
bar and respond to your orders. “ Popular scien-
tific article for middle-class magazine ! Yes, sir.
One moment—thank you, sir!” “ Two assays
and a slashing review, gentlemen ? Here
you are ! ” See the potentialities of liter-
ary fame swirl in an opaline flood, a
block of ice swaying on its bosom, cold as a
prejudice in a good woman’s soul ! But the brutal
Australian habit of using fiery whiskey for light
, sentiment, and limb-tangling colonial beer where
clear reasoning is required, cannot be sufficiently
condemned. Generally speaking, a good old
brandy in slight excess produces heavy, strong
pictures; whisky has a similar effect in a lesser
degree, but lacks the savage directness of brandy.
The latter (in conjunction with other media) may
be used freely for certain political articles. Note,
my Neophyte ! how professional democrats com-
bine whiskey and strong cigars. Absinthe symp-
tom&tises in diluted cynicism, cheap at first but
tending to accumulate. Vermouth is concen-
trated devilry if- taken after two petite verves of
brandy. Chartreuse, yellow or green, is decidedly
sensual; Cura§oa and Benedictine are bland and
broad-minded, despite the former’s brandy-mix-
ture. Of wines, the Burgundies and Clarets
proper are marked by breadth of grasp without
much care for detail. The Hock and
Chablis class may be used in two
ways:—(a) Alone for light, airy society-pleasing
stuff; (b) following heavy indulgence m brandy
overnight. In the latter case the physical exhaus-
tion is removed, and the result is frequently
trenchant. Beer is useful for readable newspaper
padding of a respectable nature, albeit
when taken in excess it may produce in heavy
temperaments of strong physique effects some-
what resembling those of brandy. For daily-'
paper leaders drink beer moderately in the early
morning, when you get the required lead in the
pipes. Gin is maudlin sentiment diluted with
hypochondriasis. Most excellent ballads of the
G. R. Sims type may be written on gin. Rum
had better be left alone, although I once knew a
man who wrote gallant pirate-verses on rum.
Thirdly, of Woman. She varies exceedingly. It is
always ivell to have a passion at call—for preference,
some stately dame of noble soul whom you are not
acquainted with. (Beware of coming too close !)
Well-read Women of cold temperament often
supply excellent ideas, and even quotations : from
these, bright, airy pseudo-literary matter may
be obtained at times. A small, pure - faced
girl of the old-fashioned type, if she can be
brought to admire, you (but no more), makes a
gopi 1 mental background for sonnets. Yet
Woman is better out of the scheme altogether,
except under the condition given. She stimulates
in the wrong centres and spoils concentration.
Fourthly, of Food. It is a large subject, and in
this, our preliminary lesson, its value can be sug-
gested merely. Some day I, will write a bile-
stirring treatise on the' literary aspects of dys-
pepsia, The humorist who remarked that he
always took a light breakfast of hot buns and gin
when he wanted to be serious touched on a wider
subject than he knew of, Indian curry (real
curry, not the cliee-chee abomination trading
under its name in Australian restaurants) is excel-
lent for Eastern stories of imperialistic tendency ;
while cold turkey and lobster-salad at lunch pro-
duce a fine melancholy suitable for pessimistic
essays dla Schopenhauer. Food needs many
adjuncts, and the very presence of such adjuncts
vitiates observation. French cookery, in the
opinion of many good authorities, is absolutely
necessary for the production of literary work pro-
perly so-called ; but from well-timed starvation is
born a fierceness of detail unattainable by other
means.
Fifthly, of “King’s Peg.” I suspect Kipling
of “ King’s Peg,” as he himself names it, in many
of his toups de force— li The Mark of the Beast,”
for instance. It is a subject needing separate
consideration, and I purposely place it apart
from tbeUommon Drink .class, for it is to be used
heedfully. In fact, King’s Peg is not a drink :it
is the essence of a brand-new soul fresh forged in
the cold starlit ether where Force juggles with the
constellations. Do not use it without cause, for
its-,magic departs with repetition. When the time
comes that the elusive hussy Fame has goaded
you into madness and you hold the dice-box for
one last throw, then turn to King’s Peg. No
lunch ; but much tobacco of the black Trichino-
poly type" during the afternoon—at least enough
to spoil your dinner. Be discontented with
a well-sbiected meal of very light character
(oysters, clear soup and, say, a breast-slice of
chicken with a delicate sauce); then take caff
royal, and more cigars. Then to the street or the
bush for an hour alone. Then if it be vour last
hope of-credit, do nqt Omit this—take a moder-
ately cold small bottle of the best dry champagne
(NOT brut), and pour into a long glass about two
inches of the best liqueur brandy. Fill up with
the champagne, and, after a moderate draught,
s ip. Half-an-hour afterwards the jade Fortune
lies quivering in your arms. Hold her, my
Neophyte, hold her ! .... Ah . !
Sixthly, of Drugs. There are certain deserve
notice.. Caffeine, for instance, has a reputation'
but it is purely stimulating and requires inhibit-
ing adjuvants. It is best used as coffee. A cup of
strong black Mocha at 6.30'a.m., preceded and
followed by a glass of hot water, sets the average
brain going like a windmill for six or eight hours ;
and similar doses at 2.30 and 9 p.m. will keep the
effect up into the next day, especially when aided
by judicious starvation. Tea also contains caffeine,
but to a less active extent than coffee. The most
marked period of "reaction to both tea and coffee is
present up to two or three hours after taking.
Morphia and cocaine are powerful agents for one
accustomed to them, having both stimulatory and
inhibitory effects; intensely concentrated work
may be done by their aid—of the omniscience-
strained through-omnipotence class beloved of
some later social essayists. Marcus Clarke
wrote a strange tribute to the powers of
haschisch as a mental stimulant, but (alas
for those who quote the Student Martialis
as a haschisch-born vision!) the Melbourne sur-
geon who .had proposed the idea to Clarke trem-
bled at the last moment, and gave Clarke two of
Plummer’s dinner-pills instead. Hysteria and
brandy were the parents of Martialis. There is a
drug, however, which contains most of the elements
requisite for a true brain-regulator—the yerba de
nuaca of South America, tt- is at once inhibitory
and stimulant, the very essence of all the fays that
ever danced on the moonbeams of a madman’s
cell.
• * * *
I count it enough, my Neophyte, to have in-
dicated roughly a few of the main points to be
considered. The ever-variable • personal factor
must never be forgotten, and self-experiment is
necessary to success. Until physiological demon-
stration can actually show the dendritic filaments
advancing and retreating under the command of
that probably-electrical force which i.s the agent
of the process we call thought—until the effect «f
therapeutic factors on the circulation which cheeky
or renders active each collection of neurons i»
thoroughly explored—we must proceed more or
less empirically.
I end my first lesson with a few prescriptions
illustrating possible combinations towards a given
effect. The subject is a man of strong physique,
agile and cultivated brain, and nervous tempera-
ment —you, O my Neophyte !
For Essay, Pseudo-Scholarly, Polished.
JR. Dinner, French (about 316) ... 1
Woman, well-read, platonic ... 1
Claret (good) ... 1 pint.
Cigars, Manila-Imperial ... t
Coffee and Benedictine, of each 1
Digest two hours. Add coffee 1 cup.
For Ballad, Biliously Pathetic.
B. Gin, unsweetened £ bottle.
German sausage ... . | lb.
Black, tobacco (1 pipe inhaled) S pipes.
Mix. Sleep three hours.
For Love Verses, Passionath.
It. Gaff Royal and Manhattan
cocktail, alternated ; of each . S
Dinner (French, choice) ... 1
Woman, brunette, brilliant, but
unresponsive to advances ... 1
Claret (good), large bottle .. 1
Cigars, black . ... ... S
Mix. Add Coffee, 1 hour after ... 1 sup.
Write after two hours.
I
am
the
M.D.
and
Master
Mage,
PUTYAKA.
A question in N.S.W. Parliament brought the
answer that James Bon wick is paid at the rate of
£636 per annum to transcribe documents in Eng-
land for N.S.W. Historical Records. Mr. Bon-
wick’s knowledge of early Australian history is
valuable; but at 83 years of age his services for
six hours daily are not quite worth that.
Ambrose Pratt’s (the Sydney writer) serial
story, just ending in local Telegraph, shows an
uncommon power of invention, and the interest is
very fairly maintained. But the young writer’s
fault is still prominent: the characters have no
individuality—-they are all Pratt in various cos-
tumes. Still, there is considerable advance on
“ The Emperor and His Double,” of last year.
The strife between Sydney Chess societies has
ended in the affiliation of the independent Sydney
Chess-Club with the Chess Association ; and on©
side sounds muffled bells of triumph, while swift-
fingered Achilles and his comrades sulk in their
tents. The local chess-player is an amusingly
jealous person ; but now that union has come all
sides would do well to bury their squabbles for th*
benefit of the game.


ASTORAL r INANCE
L
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS
—(SELLING ONLY)—
LOWEST CHARGES. HIGHEST RETURNS.
I
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Company Ltd.,
SYXDKTEY.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO WOOLGROWERS
IN New South Wales and Queensland.
The Dissolution pf the Sydney Wool-selling Brokers’ Association by effluxion of time
and our .Refusal 10 join the Wool-selling Institute, enables this Company to Revise its
Twinrn mMMTccTow Wool by Reducing same, and. also Abandoning the CONSOLI-
DA D COMMISSION CHARGE, which, we have always contended, unnecessarily
rS, BETTEE tlle c,iara cter of the Wool Grown and the
PRICE REALISED the HIGHER the CHARGE.
The following will be our Charges to the Grower :
COMMISSION
WAREHOUSING (including Receiving into Store, Fire Insur-
ance, Weighing,. Lotting, Repacking Sample Bales, Adver-
tising, Cataloguing, etc.), on. Wool realising over 6d. per lb.,
the charge will be
On Wools realising 6d. and over 4d. per lb.
On Wools realising 41b. per lb. and under
| per Cent.
3s. 9d. per Bale.
2s. 6d. per Bale.
Is. 6d. per Bale.
ON PRODUCE (other than Wool), viz., Skins, Hides, Tallow, etc., SPECIAL RATES will
be quoted on application.
Special Arrangements for the Storage & Sale of Wheat
(Full Particulars on Application).
Sole Agents in New South Wales for WALTER A. WOODS Harvesting Machinery.
FULL CASH ADVANCES- against Consignments of WOOL, GRAIN and PRODUCE.
For Sale in Sydney or Loudon.
The COMPANY acts as SELLING BROKERS only, and the proceeds are absolutely protected
under a Special TRUST CLAUSE.
Saleß of Mlaranpial Skins Held. Weekly.
Harrison, Jones & Devlin, Ltd.,
Wool and Produce Brokers.
Consolidated Charge!
for Selling Wool /
2i per cent.
/Includes all Charges excepting
/cartage from steamer’s wharf.
Fat Stock Salesmen, Stock & Station Agents,
SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Harrison, Jones~& Devlin, Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
LAWRUS
FABRICS
are the latest novelties for Indoor and Outdoor wear.
Town or Country, Walking, Cycling, and Golfing.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL THE LEADING DRAPERS & STOREKEEPERS.
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
Australian Agents for the
Wholesale Trade only:
OCdMtd
EVERY YARD IS STAMPED
jl£^R A _*~ E & PUF PUS, 326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne, &422, George St., Sydney.
0 ijjh
>( -V
m
in
'■ 1
2 «
Wlien
writing
please
mention
Thb
Bulletin.
ELECTRICITY.
If you are tired of STOMACH DRUGGING
and disappointment, send for one of Stephenson’s
ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, invented by
Sydney’s Leading Surgeon and Anatomical Demon-
strator, assisted by A SKILLED ELECTRI-
CIAN, therefore wholly an Australian invention.
THEY MAKE PERFECT MEN.
DO NOT DESPAIR. DO NOT SUFFER
LONGER. The joys and ambitions of life can
be restored to you. These beautifully and perfectly-
constructed Belts give prompt relief in Insomnia,
Failing Memory, Rheumatism, Giddiness, General
Debility, Weakness, Loss of Memory, etc., etc., etc.
They impart vigor and potency to every function,
brace up the system, give bloom to the cheeks and
lustre to the eyes of young and old, are warranted
to renew vital energy, are light, comfortable, and
may be worn without the slightest possibility of
detection. They have cured thousands.
THEY WILL CURE YOU.
£ s. d.
Plain Belts, with eight visible batteries 10 0 |
Plain Belts, with twelve visible ditto 110 0
Plain Belts, with extra powerful cells 2 2 0
Extra powerful, with suspensory
attachments .. ..330 i
Ladies’ Belts and Abdominal Supports
at prices ranging from .. 15s. to 2 2 0 i
Any of the above-named Electrical Appliances will be
forwarded to any address with written guarantee and
carriage prepaid on receipt of remittance. Send for
complete catalogue of Electrical Surgical Chest-pads,
Knee-pads, Belts, Bands, &c.
All communications should be addressed to —
A. D. STEPHENSON,
151 Elizabeth-st., Hyde Park, Sydney
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Skins, &c.
TO OBTAIN BEST POSSIBLE RESULTS, SEND YOUR SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, & CO. Ltd
SYDKTE Y,
Who Act as SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
SYDNEY WOOL SALES.
Reduced Charges. Reduced Charges.
Goldsbrough, Mort*Co
-LIMITED.
SELLING CHARGES
For the Coming Wool Season s
2\°
This is our Only Charge to the Grower.
GEORGE MAIDEN, manager.
THE MUTUAL STORE Ltd. Universal Providers.
SPRING SHOW
OF
Millinery & Dress Goods.
OTHER DEPARTMENTS.— GROCERIES, PROVISIONS, WINES & SPIRITS,
OUTFITTING, FURNISHING, &c.
.BEST QUALITY GOODS.
PRICES LOW.
The Mutual Store Ltd., Flinders St., Melbourne
VINOLIA WAR FUND
AMOUNTS TO
£lO,OOO
REPRESENTING NEARLY
5,000,000 HA’PENNI
id. sent on every tablet sold.
rnw
&C
oieR s
sou
<»*
VjN° e °
v^o
rt^ s
ORP
CH
Ihi*
th»f* s
ixow
O'
with
uec
000
av
f
|Ht4^
VVtoN
N 6
IXM*'"'
RE °
NVOQSP
VOC®
*o« N
sum
ted
dire®
5^
rop r,a
ApP
EKAfhAte:
Vinolia Soap is specially prepared for Sensitive Skins
ALL WHO DESIRE TO HAVE
SOFT VELVETY
SKIN,
CAN OBTAIN
IT
SY USING
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
BEFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
And entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 6d„ 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers —M. BEETHAM & SON, CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND
Felton, Grimwade & Co.,
Melbourne ;
Elliott Bros., Sydney.
K€^ PS Patent Si)€€p-Braodii)g Liquid.
Guaranteed to Mate a Clear, La,tin, Not Injure the Wool, to Scour Out,
dM.C3L -H1 "n • C3 C« TQftne «»- I*l -S aa ■— -■ •» -
per sail, in Melb. and Sydney; 3a 9dL per &a,ll. in
Sriabane.
Manufacturers—
Felton, Crimwacfe & Co.
MELBOURNE.
Agents— RlCH & CO. LTD,
SYDNEY & BRISBANE.


TATTERS ALLS.
Address: Care GEO. ADAMS, Hotoart.
Metropolitan S.
00,000 Subscribers at 0b
To TATTERSALI*
Please allot me
Sept. 11.
shares in the above.
Metropolitan S. (special).
DEAWN MORNING OF THE RAGE.
60,000 Subscribers at &
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot shares in the above.
£
Name
Address _
:
s
Demonstration H. oct 1
£O,OOO Subscribers at 0
To TATTERSALIa
Please allot me_ shares in above.
Name
Address
£ : t
Caulfield C. October 20.
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me -shares in the
Name
Address
£ t *
Caulfield C. (SPECIAL).
100,000 Subaoribers at 5.
To TATTERS ALL.
Please allot me shares in above.
Name
Address
£ s s
Melbourne C. November 6.
100,000 Subsoribers at 20.
To TATTERSALL.
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name
Address - ■
Melbourne C. November 6.
Please allot me_ shares in the above.
Name
Address
£ s s
Melbourne C. (special.)
100,000 Subscribers at 5.
To TATTERSALL,
Please allot me shares in the above.
Name _ _
Address
For full particulars read our Printed Circulars
Address “ Tattersall,” care Geo. Adams, Hobart.


OPALS, SAPPHIRES, PEARLS
A. BENJAMIN & SONS,
MELBOURNE,
BgSt PriQ€S-
MODERN
MILLING MACHINERY.
1
\
X
\
. \ \
BAND SAW MILLS. CIRCULAR SAW MILLS.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Roller Flouring Mills on the Universal Bolter System.
Saw Mill Engines. Automatic Cut-off Flour Mill Engines,
Machinery erected by Expert Engineers and Millwrights,
and Guaranteed.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 Clarence Street, SYD.JEY.
Imperial Lubricating Oils, as used on the Railways of
N.S.Wales, procurable only at 24 Clarence-st., Sydney.
cooy
A** p
►® €tl S oO' t "
t*e*
o
THIN
HAIR
Lots of peo-
ple have thin
hair. Per-
haps their
parents had
thin hair; per-
haps their
children have
thin hair. But
this does not
make it neces-
sary for them
to have thin hair.
One thing
you may
rely upon-
makes the
hair health}
and vigor-
ous ; makes
it a - ro w
Hair
visor
thick and long. It cures dan-
druff also.
It always restores color to
gray hair, —all the dark, rich
color of early life. There is
no longer need of your look-
ing old before your time.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies the blood,
and clears the complexion.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A
"■>o r Naturally Curly Frit)ares, 4s 6:1
to 30s each. English Hair Tails, from 5s 6d to £3 3s each
Send pattern of hair, and write for any information.
Eairlressers and Wigmakers.
Send to us for price lists of anything you want. Human
hair of every description in stock. Agents for the Royal
Lounge Hairdressing Chair. Every requisite for saloon
in stock.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
New South Wales • • • \
Barber s’ Supply House f
-2 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
TO DARKEN GREY HAIR.
Lockyer’s Sulphur Hair Restorer, quickest,
safest, best, restores the natural color. Lock-
yer’s, the real English Hair Restorer. Large
bottles Is. everywhere.*
Australia!) Provident Society.
MONET TO LENS
On security of FREEHOLD or LEASEHOLD CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES.
Or on FREEHOLD and C.P. PASTORAL and AGRICULTURAL LANDS combined
At Lowest Current Rates of Interest.
Onr New Mortgage Deed contains a condition, allowing borrowers the privilege of repaying not
more than 20% of the loan during any year without notice or payment of any tine.
Head Office: 87 Pitt-streefc. Sydney.
RICHARD TEECE, General Manager.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
mmutfV,
Commercial
Buggy,
£l4 10s.
H. Hillier,
130 Sussex-st.,
SYDNEY.
t£3T Send for a
Catalogue.
Bent -Shaft Sulkies
£lO 15s.
IMPORTANT NOTICE to
buyers of Eight Vehicles
The Best and Cheapest.
H. HILLIER. 130 Sussex-street.
. Works : MEL BOURN E-ST., CONCORD, SYDNEY,
Buyers of Light Vehicles, send particulars. Quotation
by return post. Carriages, Broughams &c., Repaired by
First-class Workmen. Send for a Catalogue.
For more Than Qno Hundred years
has maintained its supremacy in the face of the whole
world’s competition. Such a record could not be
achieved without cause. Temporary successes are com-
paratively easy, but for an article to maintain its popu-
larity generation after generation it must appeal to
something more than passing fancy. This is the case
with Pears’ Soap. It is, and always has been, an honest
product. Everywhere abroad it has found a place in
public favour equal to that for so long held in England.
Men and women alike find it good and reliable. The
man who has once tried Pears’ Soap in the form of a
Shaving Stick wants no other, he takes it with him on all
his journeys. The woman who travels and fails to take
a supply of Pears’ must put up with substitutes until
her burning, smarting skin inexorably demands the
“ matchless for the complexion.”
A NOVELTY IN SAUCE,
99
AT
(TRADE MARK)
LIME-FRUIT
JUICE
SAUCE.
The Basis of which is » MONTSERRAT ” LIME-FRUIT JUICE.
Lime-Fruit Juice, it is found, forms a most convenient basis for Sauce, and we invite
a trial. It has been pronounced by connoisseurs to be the Best Sauce before the Public.
It is also half the price of first-class Sauces.
JOHN WOODALL, Master in Surgery , writes so far back as 1617, in a treatise on Scurvy : —
“ I dare not write how good a sauce it (Lime-Juice) is at meat, lest the Chiefe in the Ships
waste it in the great Cabins.”
STRONGER AND CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER SAUCE.
AG-EWTS =
SYDNEY—Elliott Bros., Ltd.; D. Mitchell & Co.; E. Rowlands; Jules Renard & Co.
NEWCASTLE-D. Cohen & Co.
AND OF ALL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Price 6s.
Post Free.
“ON OUR SELECTION.’’
“By Steele Rudtf.”
N.S.W. Carriage & Saddlery IVtanf. Company,
Note our New Address : 193 to 195 Cleveland-street, Redfern, SYDNEY
When in town, pav us a visit. Do you want a
SULKY, BUGGY, WHEELS, or any description of
SADDLERY'? If so, send for our Price List. You
will save 20 per cent, by buying from us.
Our One-man Sulky, £5; 3-Spring Sulkies, £7;
3-Spring Sulkies, £7 15s. Our Special -Bent Shaft
Sulkies, the best and strongest ir» Australia, £ll.
Double Buggies, £2O. Buckboard Buggies from £9
10s. Ladies' Pheatons (single and double), Dog Carts,
and everv description of vehicles in Stock and Made
to Order.' HARNESS and SADDLERY of every des-
cription at the very Lowest Prices. Send us your
address, and we will forward you our Illustrated
Catalogue and Price List. NOTICE. —Do not be
misled by any ilrms who say they will deliver for less
than we can. They cannot do so, and you pay 15 per
cent more for your requirements.
(close to Redfern Railway Station).
OUR SPECIAL Xo. 2
£8 18/6
Dolirered at any Wharf «r
N.S.W. Railways, Station
Bards of the Backblocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The Curse of the White Man.
Wild son of fair Australia’s plains,
I sing in no unfeeling strains
Thy blighted hopes, thy bitter pains,
O black, but human, brother!
A “savage” heart beats in thy breast
As white as all the savage rest,
And e’en thine ebon arms have pressed
A human form—thy mother.
In happier days behold him roam,
The boundless bush his haunt and home,
And o’er his head the azure dome,
A king in every feature !
But now, alas ! behold him come
From out his ancient groves of gum,
To cringe or beg for beer or rum—
A cursed and ruined creature !
His placid lakes with sable swan,
Where generations, ages gone,
Found food and sport for sire and son,
Dread white men haunt and plunder;
They fell and spoil his ancient trees
That bore a whole millennium’s breeze ;
They roam and smite where’er they please,
And cleave his woods asunder.
Beneath that tangled roof of hair
There hides a brow unmarked with care,
And fierce his fiery eyeballs glare ;
He heeds no forest barrier.
Behold him hurl his wooden spear !
Within his breast there dwells no fear ;
But free he roves from year to year—
A stout and wily warrior.
His words lived only on his tongue,
His songs are lost, his harp unstrung,
His deeds of daring die unsung
These myriad generations.
Perchance he had his Iliad, too,
Now vanished with the morning dew;
His deeds and he pass from our view
Alas for Christian nations !
The curse of Cain is on our head ;
And since his race will soon be dead
We send him clothes, we give him bread,
But first we gave him brandy !
We landed on his native shore
And drove him rudely from our door,
And where he reigned a king of yore
Now struts a British dandy !
We owned no kinship save from lust
That filled e’en “ niggers” with disgust!
We trod his daughter in the dust,
Then asked for love and beauty.
We s' ot him when his manhood rose
(To d( a’ as man must deal with those
Who strike the deadliest blow of blows)
Constrained by sacred duty.
And were not life and honor dear
To him who owned a hemisphere ?
Poor black ! I’ll drop an honest tear —
My heart can do no other.
No more thy wild corroboree !
No more thine ancient dynasty !
And who will write thy history,
Thou hapless human brother?
W.A.
J. BUFTON.
Wattle’s Abloom!
There’s a scent dropping down from the side of
the hill,
There are patches of gold in the gullies so still,
There’s the bluest of blue in the canopy calm,
There’s a breeze that is sweet with an odour <
balm,
There’s a bosom that throbs with an emulous play
To match with the joy of the garrulous Day.;
There’s an eye that’s astir with the gleam of a
star,
For a whisper comes flashing anear and afar—
“ The Wattle’s abloom ! ”
The Wattle’s abloom —for the bountiful land
Hath taken the gold from her breast: in her hand
Hath spun it oat craftily, twined it with care,
And fashioned a crown for the brown of her hair ;
Hath come from the mirk of the Night as a
Queen,
Hath shown us the joy of her coronal sheen,
Hath bidden us bow as she passeth us by,
Hath laughed with the light of the spring in her
eye—
“ The Wattle’s abloom ! ”
A plague on your twaddle of party and town !
Old Care is a dog that we’ll throttle or drown.
We’re fools —if you will—but we certainly know
That there’s life and there’s love in the blossoms
that blow ;
And the land that they tell us is sombre and bare
Is fragrant of breath and surpassingly fair,
Is gay for the nonce as an innocent bride
Who paces so dear in her virginal pride—
“ The Wattle’s abloom ! ”
The Wattle’s a-bloom ! and a wreathing of flower
Hath fashioned above us a fabulous bower,
Hath bordered the banks of the petulant stream '
With clusters that drop like the clouds of a dream ;
And lie who may wander and ponder will feel
His palpitant breast in a jubilant peal,
Will marvel that mortals should sing of the rose
When every sweet chorus might tell at its close—
“ The Wattle’s abloom ! ”
q.
P. LUFTIG.


w
L
Aust
ICHTEST
IN
NE
AL
A
The jfusiralian pdouis’ fund [ife Assurance Society Qtd.
Established 1871.
THIS SOCIETY, in addition to transacting all the usual forms of Assurance, is the ONLY OFFICE IN AUSTRALI A
which issues Special Policies granting';—
I. Remission of proportion of premium in the event of temporary incapacity through, illness; to earn a livelihood,
fl. A Paid-up Policy in the case of permanent incapacity through illness.
Hon. Sir Chairman;
Hon. J. H. CARRUTHERS ; Hon. JAMES WATSON, M.L.O.
Accumulated Funds ... exceed £1,330,000 Annual Income ... ... exceeds £220,000
Offices: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Special Prospeotus.] GEO. F. MURNIN, Resident Secretarj’.
FEDERAL HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
SITUATE CLOSE TO STATION, STEAMER, AND
CENTRE OF CITY.
Every Modern Convenience
Electric Light in Every Room
Sanitary Arrangements Perfect
Home Comforts
Suites for Families.
ROOMS ALL SIZES, ALL PRICES.
For Cards of Tariff write to
//. Perceval Smith,
MANAGER.
WOO LG ROWERS! you
30 YEARS we have never failed to honor your confidence.
have created our reputa-
tion and name ; and for
We ask you to honor us
by supporting us, WHO, OF YOUR MAKING, are
The Largest All-Round Brokers in New South Wales.
JOHN BRIDGE & COMPANY L T ?
Financiers; Wool, Hides, Tallow, Skins, and General Produce Brokers.
THE ENJOYMENT OF TOBACCO
LARGELY DEPENDS UPON .THE
PIPE USED. THE CELEBRATED
BRIAR PIPES" BRANDED
B
BB
OWV^MAKE
ARB RECOGNISED AS THE HOST
PERFECT, BOTH AS TO
MATERIAL AND WORKMANSHIP.
Oi«cgttest demand
Cameo Ci js rcttas
Because the Best.
ONE MILLION AND A QUARTER POUNDS
1,250,000 lbs. TOBACCO
Were the Sales for Dixson’s Sydney Factory for Year ending: 30th June.
YANKEE DOODLE.
The Leading Tobacco in N.S. Wales.
OBTAINABLE THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE OF THE OTHER COLONIES.
CONQUEROR
THE WORKMAN’S TOBACCO—CHEW AND SMOKING. DOES NOT CHANGE. g;
YANKEE DOODLE DARK
YANKEE DOODLE BRIGHT
CHAMPION -
CONQUEROR -
BONANZA CIGARS -
Mild smoking, and the richest flavor of any tobacco obtainable here.
Those who formerly smoked only the well-known American and English brands are
now taking to this in large and increasing quantities.
The choicest of Gold Leaf Plug and Cut, very mild.
The workman’s favorite for smoking and chewing, always the same, never changes.
Retailed 4 for 6d., yet guaranteed Havana and American Tobacco, Sumatra covered
(made by machinery), a marvel of cheapness for the high quality cigars.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Vox. 21,—N0. 1072.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1000.
Prioh 6d.
THE FEDERAL ELECTIONS.
KNOWING DOG: “By Jove ! There’s a fine joint. Shall I have ago at it, or shall I stick to my bone?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the A ustralians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Botany-street, Waverley, for ThiT Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co.,
214 George-street North, Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 214 George Street North, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required—
which you may 'pay by Post Office Order, Postal Note,
One Pound Note, or stamps of any Australian province,
you can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every
week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, managing director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
Special Notice
The whole contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
article, tale, sketch, poem, paragraph, illustration, or
any other part of the contents of this number, is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted,
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in length,
or, say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters, or Newspaper clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MS. to distinctly understand that we
are not responsible for its preservation or transmission.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash., of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on accent.ance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and Street & Co., Cornhill.
San Francisco.— The Argonaut office, 2U6 Sutter-street.
South Africa. — it. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church
Street, Capetown ; also in the Transvaal. F. H. Solomon
and Co., 22 Hout-st., Cape Town, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria., S. Australia,
Westralia and Maoriland.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual sub-
scription outside N.S. Wales (except Queensland) is now
£l, with 2s. 2d. added for postage.
No newspaper can be sent unless the subscription is
prepaid. There will be no exception to this rule.
To Subscribers in Queensland.
Owing to the imposition of lj.i. postage, the subscription
to The Bulletin to Queensland will be £1 6s. 6d. per
annum, payable in advance.
To ease off in some degree the burden of the unreasonable
postage —ljct. on a Bulletin of ordinary weight—now
exacted by the Queensland Post Office, a special Thynne-
paper edition o/The Bulletin is now sent to Queensland.
Tj&f&zxlleZztfi,
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1900.
Federal Railway Construction.
When it was suggested, in the days while
the Australian Constitution was in process
of construction, that the Federal Govern-
ment should be the sole railroad-owner and
railroad-builder of the Commonwealth, the
Parochial multitude, and many of the weaker
Federalists as well, said that the suggestion
was revolutionary, and that it gave them a
severe shock. They asked, in the tone of
one who propounds an absolutely crushing
objection, if it was not a fact that, under the
proposed circumstances, N.S.W. would be
unable to extend its railway into Sydney, or
build a half-mile branch at Parramatta, with-
out the consent of the other provinces.
Being frankly informed that that was the
exact size and nature of the situation, they
said that the impracticability of the scheme
required no further demonstration. They
inquired, also, what guarantee there would
be under these terrible conditions that “our
State ” wouldn’t be grossly wronged and de-
frauded in the matter of new railways, and
being informed that “our State” had only
the same security as all the other States they
replied that, under these circumstances, the
idea was obviously visionary. They further
desired to know, in a horror-stricken voice,
if it was actually proposed that the other States
should dictate to “us” what lines we should
or should not build. And being informed
that the other States would dictate to “ us,”
and that “we” would equally dictate to
them, and that, in point of fact, Australia
would dictate to itself on railway-construction
matters, just as it does now, only that it
would do so as a whole instead of as six sec-
tions, the Parochial party rose to its feet
and denounced the idea as an obvious con-
spiracy on the part of that unknown person
who was always supposed to be laying plans
to steal something from “us.” They also
said something about giving away our Inde-
pendence, and being Crushed beneath the
Iron Heel of Despotism.
The fact that the existing railways must
be federated sooner or later has already
become too evident to be disputed. It
is the only way to secure a uniform gauge,
uniform rates, economical working, to wholly
abolish the border war of tariffs, and
to arrive at many other advantages. And
yet it is a logical certainty that federating
the existing lines must also mean handing
over the work of railway construction to the
Commonwealth. If the Central Govern-
ment, when it has bought up the existing
lines, leaves the work of construction to the
States, and allows them to build what lines
they please and work them under State
control, then there will be no uniform
Federal management after all. It will
become a case of starting the old confusion
over again, and where there are now six
hostile and disjointed State managements
fighting among themselves there would pre-
sently grow up six hostile and disjointed
State managements still fighting among
themselves, and also fighting with a seventh
hostile and disjointed Federal management.
Also by leaving new construction to the
States the greatest benefit which can
accrue from Federation will be lost. Aus-
tralia needs to be opened up by railways,
and to be opened up as widely and cheaply
as possible. Every place in the interior
which can give reasonable cash excuse for
a railroad wants connection with the nearest
seaport that will answer its purpose, so that
its railway will be as cheap as possible, and
will be built as quickly as possible, and
fares and freights will be as low as possible.
And that can't be done by the State Govern-
ments, which have powers of construction
only within certain areas, and which are
paralysed by an ink-streak on a map, or
stopped short by a meridian. Further, the
Commonwealth can’t leave the States to
construct what lines they please and then
take them over, for two reasons : It
can’t make the railways pay if it is liable to
have hopelessly unprofitable new under-
takings dropped upon it at any and all times
by a power which it can’t control, and which
might build unprofitable lines quite reck-
lessly when the after loss would not be
its private funeral. On many lines the after
loss is a far larger consideration than the
first cost. And it can’t build a scientific,
economical railway system—that is, one
which will take the shortest road to the most
profitable destination, irrespective of county
or parish or State boundaries—if it leaves
the work of construction to authorities
which are brought up short by a parallel, or
a meridian, or a peg stuck up in a dry
wilderness to show that one side of the peg
is Us and the other side is You.
* * * *
After all, how much is there in the alleged
horror of being dictated to by outsiders as to
whether or not a new two-mile branch or
loop shall be laid down in Sydney, or Mel-
bourne, or Adelaide, or Perth, or Hobart, or
Brisbane, or any other place ? Under the
existing separate management it is impos-
sible to lay half a mile of new rails at Bris-
bane if Central and North Queensland,
situated from 500 to 1300 miles distant,
object, and a paltry little siding that is much
wanted at Warwick may be refused by one
vote—and that the vote of a cantankerous
Australian from Carpentaria, much more
than 1000 miles distant. That is quite as
bad as if the same proposition was liable to
be lost in the Federal Parliament by the
vote of the much nearer and not more can-
tankerous member from Sydney. Brisbane
can’t get the money to build a new ticket-
office without asking the assent of Cooktown,
and that is fully as humiliating, except to
those unaccountable souls who find balm and
consolation in a streak on a map, as asking
the consent of the member from Melbourne,
who is very much nearer, and who can hardly
be less sympathetic. Albury, in N.S.W.,
can’t get any new railway expenditure with-
out the permission of Bourke and Sydney
and other places 400 or more miles distant,
and the horrors of having, under a Federal
railway construction system, to consult
Wodonga, in Victoria, three miles distant,
are not so grievous as they look. It is quite
as painful an outrage for Sydney to be un-
able to patch its dilapidated railway station
without submitting to the dictation of Broken
Hill and Wentworth and Tibooburra and
other far-off places on this side of an
imaginary streak, as it would be if it had
to consult Mildura, which is about five miles
nearer than Wentworth, only on the other
side of an imaginary streak. Esperance
Bay has to argue about its railway with the
member for East Kimberley, and East Kim-
berley is a shade further off than Melbourne,
and much more remote than Adelaide.
All the alleged dangers of handing over
the work of railway construction to the
only authority which should possess it—the
Commonwealth—is based on a Grovelling
Reverence for Imaginary Streaks. It is held
to be quite fair, just, and obviously reason-
able that Portland’s railway-extension policy
should be dictated from Melbourne, 250 miles
east; but the proposal that it should be con-
trolled in any way from Adelaide, 250 miles
west, is too horrible for words. The fact
that Sydney has waited 30 years for a decent
central railway terminus, and can get no
further forward, through the hostility of the
country districts, including places like Ten-
terfield, and Bombala, and Milparipka, is
considered regrettable, but it isn't looked
upon as an outrage on the liberty of Syd-
ney- But the proposal that Boorgunvah or
Tintaldra should be at liberty to vote for
Sydney having a decent railway station im-
mediately is regarded in many quarters as
good cause for revolution. They are nearer,
certainly, than Tenterfield, but the fetish or
Joss or Mumbo-Jumbo of Imaginary Streaks
on a map makes all the difference.
• 9 * *
And yet the States, under the present
system, are, in one important sense, less in-
dependent in railway construction matters
than they would be under Federal control.
As an instance, N.S.W. has built a miser-
ably-unprofitable line to Cooma, not far
from the Victorian border. It might be
made to pay if it were part of a second
through line to Melbourne, but Victoria
refuses to move an inch at the construction
of its end. of the line. N.S.W., under the
present policy, might vote till the Day of
Judgment for the extension of that line to
Melbourne, and get no further forward. If
railway construction was the work of the
Commonwealth Parliament, where N.S.W.
will have great weight, its vote might decide
the construction of that through line whether
Victoria agreed or not. As it is, under the
alleged policy of State freedom its railway
management in this matter is dictated
by Victoria. When the inevitable trans-
continental railway to connect the east
and the west comes in view, N.S.W. will
meet the same trouble in a more aggravated
form. If the building of the new lines
rested with the Federal Legislature N.S.W.
would have a voice—the loudest voice—in
the laying out of the whole line. Under the
existing policy the question whether N.S.W.
will ever get direct communication with the
west rests wholly with the little intervening
population of S.A., and N.S.W. can only
get that communication on such terms and
by such route as S.A. sees fit. Queensland,
in like manner, is pushing its railways
towards its western border, and when they
get there further progress stops, unless the
western province is appeased and propitiated
with sufficient grovel, and allows the lines to
cross its territory and develop into another
transcontinental system. At present there
are only three places in Australia where
railways cross the Imaginary Streaks that
make all the trouble. When the iron roads
extend to the borders in many directions it
will become apparent that under the old
separate policy no province has real control
of its own railway system, and that each one
is subject to the irritating dictation of all
its neighbours. Moreover, under the separate
system there is no remedy for this dictation.
The smallest State, if it happens to be in the
way, can dictate to any possible combination
of big neighbors with absolute impunity.
• * * *
As for the plea that, when the Federal
Parliament is the sole railway-builder, there
will be no guarantee that each component
part of the Commonwealth will get its fair
share of the new lines, that must be ad-
mitted. It is just the same way now. It
will be just the same way if the States con-
tinue separately in the railway-building
business. It will be the same way if the
Commonwealth takes the business over. As
things are now, South Queensland is liable
to be unjustly treated by North Queensland,
1000 miles away, in the division of the avail-
able construction money, and, as things will
be, it will be liable to be treated just as un-
fairly by N.S.W., 250 miles away. All the
other parts of Australia are in the same situ-
ation. If any attempt had ever been made,
or any means had ever been devised,
for ensuring a fair division of the cash
under State management then that would be
a reason either for demanding that State
management should continue, or that Federal
management should give an equally good
guarantee of fairness. As things are, and
always have been, the worst that can be said
is that, in this one particular, Federal con-
trol is open to the same drawback which has
always attended State control. To put the
situation in a sentence : If the work of rail-
way construction is handed over entirely to
the Commonwealth things are liable to be no
worse in this one particular, and they are
certain to be much better in all others.
These are The Bulletin’s reasons for being
in favour of absolute Federal control of the
present and future railways of the Common-
wealth. And on the other side there is the
fetish of Imaginary Streaks on the map, and,
possibly, the plea that a consolidated rail-
way system will be too vast an undertaking
for one head to manage. But the latter
difficulty can be surmounted by judiciously
dividing the work and the responsibility
among district managers, and district rail-
way committees ; and as for the gospel of
Imaginary Streaks on a map, it is only a
very small superstition, or Joss, or Mumbo-
Jumbo.
The Plague.—A Foreword.
“ Potyaka ” (a medical man) to The Bulletin :
Sydney—apathetic Sydney—is knotting for herself a
scourge that will yet send her howling into the wilderness,
a scorn and a reproach among civilised cities. Sydney
smiles and reclines along her harbor, fondling her pretty
toys of armed men in shops, armed men ashore, horse-
races, picnics, and general gaieties— never heeding the
tread of the executioner, with the brand hissing in his
hand to sear her flesh. The alleged guardians of the pub-
lic health are bound hand-and-foot by three-penn’orth of
newspapers, which order a grovelling' Parliament to put a
stop to the unnecessary and unwarranted expense of pre-
cautions against the re-introduction of the Plague. The
opinion of a fifty-shilling-a-week reporter, loaded to his
unshaven chin with the eleemosynary whisky of interested
capitalists, is sufficient for the opening of the door to
Death, and a muddle-headed capitalistic proprietor stands
ready on the threshold to take the visitor by the hand.
And, in case Death should not hear the summons, behold,
every fool in the land who craves for cheap notoriety
rushes howling at any further-sighted man who dares to
lift his hand in protest.
* * * *
You have forgotten, you people of Sydney ! You say
there were but a hundred or so of deaths about which to
make all this pother ; that the disease has gone, anyhow,
and won’t come back. You blurt out all the noxious
fatuity that is in you, begotten and nourished by the pro-
perty-owner-inspired pennyworth which leads you by the
nose and forms for you what you call your “ opinions.”
You have forgotten the Days of Terror, when you rushed
with jerking, pallid lips and pumping hearts to the very
men whom you now try to belittle, for hope and protec-
tion. You have forgotten how those of you who could
fled the city, leaving wife and children to stand their
chance while you took a trip “on urgent business.” You
have forgotten how, as the cases mounted up day by day,
you talked in your shops, your offices, your hotels, your
trains, of the Plague, till the word burned into your
brains and maddened you, as maniacs are made by the in-
cessant sounding of a single musical note. You have for-
gotten your GoD-smitten city, where you toiled and dug
frantically, tearing out God only knows what of congested
filth and rottenness. The hand of death rested quivering
above you, and was stayed, as is the fashion in this
disease —but it rests above you still, and the stroke will be
to your very heart. You whitewashed your streets, then.
Make more whitewash, and save it for your next year’s
tombstones.
* * * *
It is the whim of the Plague-Demon that he measures
his stroke, as does a swordsman with a touch of the blade,
before he smites. The Great Plague of London did not
spring like some foul beast out of the darkness upon an
unprepared city. There had been five plagues of London
in the preceding sixty years. Take the dry official
records of the Bombay and Hong Kong outbreaks of the
last six years, and their history is as that of Sydney
in its scorn of warning. The plague-centres within easy
oversea reach, the initial doubtful case or two, the
smitten rats crawling and lumbering into the open air to
die, the recognised hurilan case, the gradual climb-
upwards of an accompanying curve of proportionate
death rate, the occasional small rises and small falls as
the poison fermented and spread in the rotten soil of rat-
tunnels filled with putrid carcases, or was affected by
temporary meteorological conditions ; the longer period
of apparent quiescence with the flushing of sewers by
heavy rains. So far you have gone. But in these other
cases—after a period of quiescence while the smiter
measured his distance—he struck and struck again ;
struck till the hospitals overflowed and paved the streets
with swollen corpses for the pariah-dogs to gorge upon
until they too staggered and died.
* * * *
The condition of some portions of Sydney is almost on
equality with that of the native quarters of Hong Kong
or Calcutta. The Asiatic is constitutionally no more
liable to plague than is the low-type European. The “in-
fected area ” is but a portion of Asiatic Sydney, and
despite the prate of “ vigorous action ” and the rest of the
fanfare made, you have only scratched the surface. You
talk of the “ clear Australian air.” Plague cares nothing
for air, so long as it has filthy houses or filthy soil in
which to generate. On the southern slopes of the
Himalayas, where the pine-forests sing in the pure dry air
and the roaring snow-torrents speed through the gorges—
there the festering villages perched on cliff and scarp
make of Nature’s sanatorium a home of Plague. Some say
that the summer climate will stamp out any remnants.
How then is it that the putrid huts of Uganda, sweltering
under the Equator, yield a yearly dole to endemic Plague?
It is the filthy house, the garbage-sodden soil, the rotten
refuse of a score of rubbish-tips, that are even now
forming a culture-medium better than the gelatine of a
laboratory. Poona, eighty miles from Bombay, had an ex-
perience such as you may yet have. A small outbreak—a
mere twenty or so of deaths a day—was “ stamped-out’
as the newspapers tell you your own outbreak has been
stamped out. The people forgot—as you have forgotten
—and for months the scourge lay quiet. The rains had
washed the gutters as they have washed yours ; but the
leaven worked. Then, as the poison grew and gathered
strength, there came a case here and there, till suddenly
the pest leapt beyond human interference and laid the
town waste. In your streets and alleys are the same piles
of garbage, the same foul, greasy stench. Ships lie un-
protected along your quays, free to bring infected rats to
you or to distribute them among your coastal ports. In
the hotels where you eat and drink are the same abomina-
tions in the shape of public conveniences that demand
the hanging of those responsible for their condition.
Thousands of working men herd in hovels built over the
rotting filth of the city, their children playing among the
lazar-rags of the tips.
* * * *
By inoculating earth from rat, and rat from earth, in
turn, the Plague organism can be kept alive indefinitely,
increasing to epidemic strength with each successive cul-
tivation. Even now, rats burrow and die under your
feet and in your streets, repeating the experiment of the
laboratory on a gigantic scale. You will argue, with your
cheap cocksureness, that rats in time become immune;
but do you know how many years it takes for this to
come about ? Do you know that, as the immune rat-
population dies out, others with no such immunity swarm
in from ships and from the outlying districts, to take
their places and to die in their turn ? Some say that rats
are necessary scavengers. Is the present typhoid-scourge
a credit to their administration, if that is the case ? You
prate of your slain and paid-for sixty thousand ! Make
the foreshore of your harbour one vast rat-trap, kill six
millions —and perhaps you may rest awhile upon your oars!
Search out the burrows with jets of superheated steam,
and cover the ground with chloride of lime when you
have done it. Protect your shipping and yourselves by
the enforcement of proper health-regulations. Clean-up
your city. You have the chance now of doing it volun-
tarily ; but in a decade you will be cursing yourselves at
having been driven into it in terror-stricken hurry.
* * * *
The July rains saved you, this year; but they will not
have power to intervene again, for your soil will be rotten
through-and-through unless you bestir yourselves. The
bacteria are multiplying in geometrical progression in
the very bowels of your city, while you throw money
with both hands to the beef-fed idols of your blood-lust.
You love to read in your newspapers of death and misery
in foreign countries where your young men go to slaughter
farmers and to die of enteric fever, but shortly—very
shortly—you will have Death himself among you, thank-
ing Parliament for the facilities afforded for his entry.
You have forgotten now, but afterwards you will terribly
remember!
* * » *
You have spoken of the Boer war, howling your idiotic
thanks to a God who doesn’t care whether the Austra-
lian ant slaughters the Boer ant, or vice versa. You
speak now of the Chinese war, demanding, in your silly
blood-fury, vengeance from Him on a people who in their
daily lives are immeasurably better worshippers than
yourselves. You will speak of the Plague, asking mercy
in sobbing whispers—those that are left of you.
* * » *
And—hearing you, perhaps, for an instant out of
Eternity—God will smile.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Is It Worth While?
The mighty English match-manufacturers, R.
Bell and Co., have lately caused trouble in Maori-
land. This firm received a Govt, subsidy of £l5OO to
start the match-making industry in Maoriland,
and after refusing to pay decent rates to Maori-
land girls, imported some London “ ’Arriets ” at
a starvation and body-selling wage to do their
cheap and nasty work. They were promptly
brought before the Conciliation and Arbitration
Board. The solicitor for Bell and Co. said that
if the wages demanded by the court were paid,
the industry would be “ seriously hampered
which remark called forth some very plain
speaking from the President (Judge Martin).
He said it was a consideration with the court
whether it would not be better to stop a trade or
industry altogether which could not give its em-
ployes a wage that would enable them to lead
decent lives—“ The province was not bettered
by an industry which forced girls on to the
streets to supplement their earnings.” The
statement did all possible credit to the Judge’s
heart, though, perhaps, hardly so much to
his head. The matcn-making trade can pay
a living wage as well as any other trade —
though whether it can do it and yet sell a package
of 12 boxes for 3d. is another matter. And no
decent community (are there any decent com-
munities?) wants 12 boxes for 3d. if they can only
be supplied by starving the work-girls and driving
them to prostitution. But to abolish the local in-


dustry is no remedy. That only means importing
matches instead of making them, and getting
cheap matches out of the misery and prostitution
of the English girl instead of the Maoriland. one,
which is quite as shameful, only not quite . so
visible. The remedy is to get rid of the English
firm of Bell and Co. with its sweating policy and
its cheap labor traditions; to have locally-
owned factories which will sell matches
at the cheapest rate consistent with civi-
lised conditions ; and to keep out the
foreign slave-wage-made matches with a heavy
duty. It will make matches dearer, most
assuredly. If matches are cheap because the
miserable girls who make them work incredible
hours for ss. a week, you can’t give them decent
hours and 15s. a week —which is little enough to
live upon—without making the product dearer.
No Christian community wants to sell its immor-
tal soul, and be a slave-driver, and to force its fel-
low-creatures to prostitution in order to keep skin
and bone together—merely for the sake of getting
matches a little cheaper. Of course the extra
price arising through the payment of a wage on
which a white girl could live and be a decent mem-
ber of society would be quoted by the glib and
one-idea’d Foreign-trader as another proof of the
evils of Protection —but the Freetrader doesn’t
matter.
♦
The Weary, Weary Reid.
N.S.W.’s wearisome drawback, ex-Premier Reid,
who, in some respects, should surely be able to
hold an easy first place as the most incredibly in-
solent political charlatan on this earth, turned up
the other night in the Assembly to defend what
he calls his financial reputation. Not satisfied
with having his accounts reported on in the most
blighting fashion by three well-known business
men, two of whom were placed on the committee
of inquiry at his own suggestion, ex-Premier Reid
has been having them further overhauled by
another committee of three, which is all his own
committee this time. Like Premier Lyne, he
submitted certain questions to the committee to
answer, but with a wide difference. Lyne’s one
central question was : “ Supposing each year was
debited with its own fair and reasonable expendi-
ture—the expenditure properly chargeable to it—
leaving all fakes and devices out of the question,
how do each year’s finances pan out ? ” That
was the gist of Lyne’s question, and that
was just the one subject that N.S.W. wanted
to hear, about. The question which Reid
put to his committee —the committee which he
paid himself—was apparently, judged by its
answers, about this: “Did the revenue received
during 4£ years of my term of office fully cover the
expenditure which I charged to these 4i years ? It
isn’t your business to ask what should “have been
charged. Just stick to what I charged.” And
Reid’s committee reported that the revenue for
the 4J; years for which Reid was solely responsible
exceeded the sums actually debited by
Reid to these 4| years by £llo,llB—that there
was £llO,llB surplus, with certain reservations.
The reservations include a number of things. It
is specifically mentioned that sums paid on
account of Martin-place and Centennial Park
resumptions are not reckoned in the expenditure,
and these amounted to £161,445. Attention is
also drawn to the fact that no account is taken of
the fact that £201,647 for interest from 31st March
to 30th June, 1899, was not charged against the
revenue for the year ended 30th June, 1899. Then
Reid’s own committee begins to say things like *
these about Reid’s Cash Basis Fake:
The accounts of one kind and another actually owing at,
the close of the year must consequently always amount,
we should imagine, to a very large sum, and by charg-
ing back to previous years the accounts owing on June
30th, 1895, when the new system came into operation,
and not bringing into account the outstandings on June
30th, 1899, the expenditure between these two dates must
have been made to appear much smaller than would have
been the case under the old system.
Moreover the new system gave another considerable
advantage, especially during the first year—
The year of George Reid’s £330,000 or £340,000
surplus
—and it may be that the revenue account derived some
benefit from the new system introduced of spreading the
cost of certain unproductive works over a period of 30
years instead of meeting the whole cost at once out of
revenue as in years gone by.
So Reid’s own committee, paid by Reid, and with
the lines on which its inquiry was to be conducted
carefully fixed by Reid, practically and to all in-
tents and purposes reports thus :
If we don’t reckon £161,445 which you paid away, as
being paid away, and say nothing about interest (£201,647)
which you left unprovided for, and say nothing about the
fact that you saved a lot of money on paper by not
charging yourself either with the amounts owing when
you took office or the amounts owing when you left office
(charging one lot back to your predecessor and the other
lot forward to your successor), and if we say nothing
about how you made your outgoings look smaller by
charging to a new series of 30-year loans ordinary expen-
diture which your predecessors paid out of revenue, and
if we don t inquire at all about what ought to be charged
to each year but simply inquire about what you did
harge—then you had a small surplus.
Reid s finances have now been inquired into by
no less than three committees. The first one was
wholly his own committee. He appointed it in
1896, to guarantee the absolute genuineness of his
famous surplus, and, after overhauling things
carefully, it replied that it wasn’t prepared to say
that the surplus was genuine. In the second com-
mittee, two out of the three members were ap-
pointed on Reid’s suggestion they were men
whom he named and with whom he declared he
would be perfectly satisfied. And this second
committee showed up Reid’s political dodges,
fakes, and misrepresentations as no Aus-
tralian .Treasurer was ever shown up before. And
the third committee was all Reid’s committee,
selected, not directly, but by persons whom he
entrusted with the work of selection, and paid by
.A n d^ it says it can only throw a mode-
rately-favorable light on Reid’s accounts by not
■charging him with a vast number of things which,
it broadly hints, should be charged against him.
Dan t this impudent trickster find one intelligent
and well-known man of figures in the community
who will give him a straight-out certificate
ot political honesty and solvency ? So far,
even when he pays the man out of his own pocket,
he can’t get a clean bill of health.
State Governors.
William Lewis to The Bulletin :
At this moment the status of provincial or State Gover-
nors m the sister Dominion of Canada should be of in-
terest to Australians. These officials are invariably
Canadians, taken from the ranks of leading - public men,
and appointed by the Governor-General, acting - on the
advice of his responsible ministers. The present Governor,
or, to call him by his official title, Lieut.-Governor of
Ontario, is Oliver Mowat, for many years Premier of that
province, and former leader of the Liberal party. On-
tario has a population of over two millions, and is by far
the richest and most prosperous member of the Canadian
Federation. A* salar y the Executive is but
£2OOO. Crossing Lake Ontario we find the State of New
York, with a population verging on seven millions, in-
cluding within its bounds the second largest city of the
world, paying its Governor only the same stipend. His
office is justly considered as second only in dignity and
importance to that of the President, and has freer fllled
by men of even more than national reputation. Governor
Tilden, in ’76, missed the greater prize of the Presidency
by the merest fluke, while Cleveland in ’B4 found it but a
step from the State House at Albany to the White House
at Washington. In the matter of recompense to our
State Governors the question should receive more
careful consideration than has hitherto been given
to it. N.S.W. politicians are in an ultra liberal
frame of mind, stimulated, may we suggest, by the fear
that the neighboring southern State may outbid them in
the matter of gubernatorial salary. It cannot be con-
sidered censorious to say that £5OOO is an extravagant
sum with which to reward an office which must, of neces-
sity, be of a subordinate character. To the ordinary tax-
paying citizen it seems anomalous that a State with only
two-thirds the population of the Canadian province of
Ontario and hut one-fifth that of the State of New York ,
should seriously propose to pay its executive a salary one
hundred and fifty per cent, i.t excess of that paid to an
official performing practically the same functions in either
o/ the Commonwealths designated. It is well to have an
eye to the future. Increase of wealth and population
means increase of the executive duties and, properly, an
increase of recompense for the performance of those
duties. To initiate the office with a salary of £5OOO as
proposed, is to mortgage any possible increase for genera-
tions to come. As to the personnel of the State governors,
the office is not one likely to be sought after by English-
men of the first rank. Such men will not covet a position
in which they must play a subordinate part to that of the
Governor-General., If we insist on the Colonial Office
appointing these officials, pur choice lies between that
class of callow politician novices who have little save their
names to recommend them, and the great cloud of diplo-
matic has-beens who haunt the purlieus of Downing-
street.
Better to follow the safe Canadian precedent. No
Australian should hesitate in his choice for State governor
between a fellow-citizen of high character who has filled a
.prominent and honorable position in the affairs of his
colony, and an English appointee from either of the
classes indicated.
4
A Tale from the “Front.”
The glories of war ! Private Jas. Bartlett,
formerly of Newcastle (N.S.W.) police, returned
to Australia the other day, and was interviewed
by Newcastle Morning Herald. He fully bears
out Burdett-Coutts’ impeachment of the medical
arrangements at Bloemfontein. After telling,
among other things, that many of his comrades
were so exhausted by fatiguing marches that they
actually went to sleep in their first experience
under fire, the narrative proceeds:
Bartlett shortly afterwards contracted fever, and was
carted into Bloemfontein, where he was placed in No. 12
Brigade Field Hospital. The patients were coming in
very numerously, and six were being buried in a blanket
at the one time. There were nine or ten hospitals, and
from the former the deaths averaged 10 a day, the
average death-rate being 40 a day, principally from
enteric fever. In No. 10 the treatment the patients re-
ceived was simply scandalous. There were no sisters in
any of these hospitals, the orderlies of the R.A.M.C. doing
all the work, and there was only one stretcher for every
10 men. When Bartlett was admitted to the tent he was
placed on the wet ground, with not even a blanket to
cover him. The patients were supposed to get three pints of
milk and two pints of water a day, but they never received
the regulation allowance of anything. He subsisted 21
days on this diet. If a man came into the hospital
after 11 a.m. he was not seen by the doctor for 24 hours.
It was impossible to get a night-pan or a drink of water,
for that matter, during the night, and if a man was unable
to shift for himself he had a bad time. He had frequently
seen an orderly kick a man lying at death’s door in the
ribs, and tell him to get up, when the poor fellow was
barely able to move. Medicine was ordered two or three
times a day, but if a patient received one dose he con-
sidered himself very fortunate, and then it was not given
in anything approaching a decent manner. The bottle
was placed to the man’s mouth, and by the time he had
swallowed the medicine he had possibly taken three times
more than the doctor prescribed. They were also sup-
posed to have a wash and to be sponged all over once a
day, but Bartlett only had two ablutions in 30 days. He
frequently" asked for a bucket, but could never g-et one,
and the only way to get water was to fill the water-bottle.
The way he managed to get a wash was by one of his com-
rades pouring the water into his hands and swilling his
face in this fashion.
Nos. 9 and 12 hospitals were the worst of the lot, and if
he had not witnessed the scenes with his own eyes,
Bartlett could not have believed that one white
man could treat another in such a brutal manner.
He has known patients to be ordered brandy
and milk, but the orderlies kept the brandy, and the suf-
ferers did not even get the milk. There was in reality no
attention paid the patients, and it was little wonder that
the Tommies always expressed a wish to be sent to the
N.S.W. Hospital. No. 12 hospital was eventually re-
moved half a mile from the town, and on that day none
of the patients saw a doctor. Bartlett was told to get on
to a waggon, which already contained a huge latrine, and
upon saying that he could not walk, let alone jump, he
was told to b well walk. The tents were pitched any-
how, and the walls not being pegged, the cold night winds
fairly whistled through. One man crawled outside, and
as he did so the ants and flies almost carried him away.
He was lying face downwards, with not a soul near him,
and eventually he crawled back into the tent, and died.
Next morning one of the officers came along and shoved
the man with his boot, telling him to get up with the
others ; but the poor fellow remained motionless, and it
was then the officer discovered that the man was dead.
There were only two pans in the hospital for the use of
all the patients, and the only wonder to Bartlett is that
they did not all die, so crueily were they treated.
Several times he saw the orderlies quarrel over the dis-
tribution of a dead man’s kit. As soon as a man breathed
his last a rush was made for his kit by the orderlies, and
it was nothing short of an outrage to see how they quar-
relled and fought over the possession of the poor fellow’s
effects. He frequently heard them refuse to give a
patient medicine, saying that it would only be wasted on
such a man. When he applied for a blanket, the officer
gave Bartlett one covered with filth, and fairly alive
with vermin. He told the surgeon that he would not
place such a blanket in his dog-kennel, and it was then
taken from him. He afterwards saw a stretcher lying in
the tent, and with the aid of a comrade he managed to
place it under him, as the damp ground was producing
aches and pains all over his body. The stretcher, how-
ever, was wanted the next morning to remove the dead
men, and he had again to lie on the wet ground. There
was really no care or comfort whatever in the R.A.M.C.
hospitals, but everything in connection with the N.S.W.
was carried out with the utmost satisfaction.
Reforming 1 the Victorian 48 Rich
Landlords.
When Victoria’s House of 48 Rich Landlords
showed signs of “turning dog” on the Woman’s
Suffrage Bill for the fifth time, the local Age pro-
posed, as a means of coercion, that the Assembly
should refuse to pass the Federal Electorates Bill
unless the Upper Tomb gave way. The
refusal would mean that, at the election
for the Federal House of Representatives,
all Victoria would be one constituency
on the one-man-one-vote principle, and the
Liberal party would sweep the polls, whereas
under the electorate system there are at least two
constituencies that are a gift to the Tories. It
was a good idea in its way, but if it succeeded,
and the Woman’s Suffrage Bill (which applies
only to the already democratic Assembly) was
carried, the 48 Rich Landlords would be left as
Tory, as unreformed, as much a stumbling-block
to all progress, as ever. What is wanted is a
workable scheme for compelling or inducing the
Dreadful Four Dozen to reform themselves—not
one for inducing them to consent to further re-
form of the Assembly, which is a Liberal institu-
tion now, but which sees most of its progressive
measures rejected by the House of Landlords.
The Age, with all its vague demands for
reform, has never propounded any such
scheme, good, bad, or indifferent. The
Bulletin, which doesn’t believe in vague, unpro-
fitable yearnings, has frequently proposed the
introduction of a Bill providing that the Council
shall in future be a paid body, with no property-
qualification, elected by absolute adult suffrage
with the whole province voting as one consti-
tuency, and further setting forth that Parliament,
m view of the great services of the present 48
Rich Landlords rendered for many years without
pay (this would be irony, but the fact of its being
irony needn’t be mentioned) decreed them a per-
petual free railway-pass, the permanent retention
of the title of “ Hon.,” and a life pension of £lOOO
a year each. It would be shameless bribery cer-
tainly, but nothing save bribery or insurrection is
at all likely to shift the 48 Rich Landlords, [f
the thing was put nicely it would probably catch
enough votes to carry it. Many of the Landlords
are sufficiently mortgaged to make it a very hard
thing to resist an offer of £lOOO a year—they might
refuse it once or twice, but they would grab at it
m the end. While they hesitated it would
bring a rush of new candidates at every Council
Election new candidates yearning to get in and
vote for the Bill next time it appeared, and get
the £lOOO a year for themselves. That bait always
dangling in view would upset all the Council’s
traditions, and shatter its holy calm into 70,000
fragments. When the offer was at last accepted
it would oiily cost £48,000 a year at most, and it
wouldn’t cost that for long, as the Councillors are
not young men, and many of them look like
walking incarnations of Apoplexy, Cirrhosis, and
Fatty Degeneration. And the new reformed
Council could promptly pass an extra land-tax on
big estates which would yield more than £48,000 a
year, and thus make the class which created the
48 Rich Landlords pay for their extinction. Then
an absentee-tax would also be possible, and a law
for the compulsory resumption of large estates for
closer settlement- in fact everything would be
possible. Victoria is full of democrats who are
“ in favor of the reform of the Upper House,” but
not one of them has yet advanced a scheme for
inducing or compelling the Upper House to con-
sent to its own reform, and while that great want
lasts all these democrats are quite useless. Will
the Victorian Labor-party either adopt this
scheme or produce one of its own ? It is time to
drop vague good wishes for reform and set about
real reform.
Victoria s Crown Law authorities have an over-
powering respect for legal forms. Recently a
village settler at Kooweerup swamp was fined
2s. Gd. for failing to send his boy to school for the
statutory number of days in the preceding quarter.
The lad was only absent two days short of the
required number, and there was also the good
excuse that he had to walk seven miles to school,
through swamps, etc., barefoot, the family being
too poor to provide boots. The settler couldn’t
pay even the poor half-crown, but promised to
stump up as soon as able ; nevertheless, a few
days later a constable called and demanded the
penalty, and, failing to get what the man hadn’t
got, actually took him 30 miles to Melbourne, and
locked him up for the alternative six hours ! At
the end of that period he was turned adrift
in the streets, 30 miles from home, without a
penny in his pocket. Meanwhile, there are
thousands of truants in Melbourne 800 in
Hawthorn alone—and nobody makes any attempt
to round them up and find out why they
never go to school at all. And think of the sinful
waste of sending two policemen 60 miles and one
defendant 30 miles all to impose six hours’ gaol
for non-payment of 2s. 6d. ! Why can’t the bobby
in such cases carry a portable india-rubber gaol
under his arm, and let the defendant do his six
.lours in it on the spot ? Or supposing defendant
has a big trunk or a woodshed or a hollow tree,
why shouldn’t the bobby be authorised to proclaim
it a temporary gaol within the meaning of the
Act, and put defendant in it for the necessary six
hours—or 4i hours, when the ordinary remission
for good conduct is deducted ?
♦
The seizure and lodgment in gao. of N.S.W.
aborigines, under the Breelong panic, is a more
serious piece of police or Executive high-handed-
ness than the community appears to realise.
These handcuffed and leg-ironed aborigines have
an undoubted, right to legal redress. It was never
ruled that aborigines come under the Vagrant Act.
In fact, there are numerous rulings showing that
they are purposely excluded from the operation of
that Act. Only for this they could be arrested
wholesale all over the territory. Any backbloeks
squatter could clear his countryside right away.
Yet this Act is the only defence set up by the
authorities for laying by the heels as many of the
unfortunate race as scared policemen thought it
necessary to imprison. Probably a spell of gaol
will, in the circumstances, do the blacks little
harm. But that is not the question. The real
harm is the tyrannous official distortion of law.
♦
Jack Want or somebody wrote the following in a
disguised hand, and blackened his face and put on
a false beard, and posted it at midnight, and the
S.M. Herald published it: —
Sir,—Might I suggest as the crowning act preceding the
proclamation of the federal constitution, and as a small
token of the public gratitude due to the Right Honour-
able the learler of the Opposition, the meetness of in-
augurating a monster demonstration of the citizens of
each large centre of population in the colony, led by the
citizens of Sydney, in recognition of the practical initia-
tion and actual accomplishment of Australian federation,
due so largely, if not solely, to Mr. Reid. I would propose
that this great movement should be simultaneous—that
is, on the same day throughout N.S.W. This would
be supplemental to the recognition of the energetic
and untiring ideal and theoretical work of others, and a
just honor to him who realised and carried into effect
what they so ably and unceasingly preached. I feel sure
that Mr. Barton, to whom so much is due for his federal
work, and Mr. M'Millan, who so generously recognised
Mr. Reid’s major share in the accomplishment of Federa-
tion, as well as those others to whom the colony dele-
gated their federal interests at the Convention, will
heartily endorse and work together in carrying out what
only justice demands and honor as recognisedly due
exacts.—l am, etc., Federal Australian.
What are they giving us? No- Yes was always
anti-Federal, but after Barton and others had,
at infinite pains, blown life into the dead ashes of
Federation and it was dangerous to longer ignore
it, Reid, wishing to nobble Federal votes, moved
in the matte ]of the Convention. At its sit-
tings he evinced his ardor by snoring dis-
cordantly, and when it concluded -he stumped
N.S.W. against the Bill and denounced clauses
he had himself voted to include, but, still
with a glazed glare on Federal support, stated that
in spite of its imperfections he would vote for the
measure. Also, as an earnest of his zeal he
allowed the iniquitous minimum vote clause to be
added to the Enabling Bill. It is safe to bet that
had George, usually an adept at guessing how the
cat will jump, foreseen the immensity of the Union
vote, he would have yelled himself hoarse for the
original Bill. He expected the measure to be lost
and then he could have posed as the chap who
tried to pass it; but circumstances were too strong
for him, and a very inconvenient matter would
have been satisfactorily squelched for a long time.
It is to be hoped that the proposed meetings will
be held, and a resolution to this effect passed ;
“That George Reid endeavored to wreck the
cause of Australian union, and that he is a
political posturer and bounder and rail-sitter of
the worst type.”
The city of Brisbane is rapidly earning for itself
the reputation of being the most wooden-headed
municipality in Australasia. Not content with
having allowed that magnificent asset, the city
tramways, to drift into private hands, it appears
to be prepared just now to allow the electric light-
ing- of the town to become the business of a
syndicate also. A poll of ratepayers taken
a few days ago on the matter gave
the following amazing result. One thousand
and ninety votes were recorded in favor of
the Council’s undertaking the installation of the
electric light on its own account, while 1319 votes
were given against the proposal, which was thus
defeated by 229 votes. The defeat was bad
enough, but the public indifference displayed in
the matter was infinitely worse. Out of 8953
votes on the roll (or (1442 voters) the total number
of individuals voting was 1332. And this on a
matter of the most vital interest to every ratepayer
of a city where the taxes are mounting by leaps and
bounds. From this poll one comes to a variety
of conclusions. In the first place the people of
Brisbane haven’t any faith in the old order of
aldermen, otherwise they would have rolled up
to support them and their private lighting
proposals. Then again, for a similar reason, it
might be argued they haven’t any faith in the new
municipalising order of aldermen. Further, it
would appear also that the Brisbaneites haven’t
any faith in themselves, or their votes, or their
capacity for running things. Well, perhaps
they’re right. A city that went frantic with
enthusiasm over the Anti-Federal business and
set up the idiotic Brisbane Telegraph as its Joss
and Bible, is quite right to mistrust itself and its
capacities to the bitter end.
♦
Premier Section proposed in his financial state-
ment toabolish theMaoriland duty onmatches, and
this has been promptly followed by the shutting
down of the local match factories. Freetraders, of
course, say that if an industry which has been
protected by a duty for ten years or so can’t get
along now without a duty it ought to go—which
is just as wise as saying that if Britain, after
having been protected by an army and
navy for five centuries or so, can’t get on
now without an army and navy it ought
to go. Matches are made cheaply in England
because the girls who make, them work hideous
hours, under hideougly-insanitary conditions, foi-
ls. or ss. a week, and in many cases are driven to
eke out their miserable earnings by prostitution.
Even after 1000 years of Protection the Maoriland
match-industry wouldn’t be able to compete in the
open market with the slave-made British product
while Maoriland pays its girl-operatives a decent
white girl’s wage. So Maoriland has to choose
between paying a trifle more for its matches
while giving the makers a living wage,
or getting them a trifle cheaper at the
price of patronising and encouraging sweat-
ing and compulsory prostitution. And Pre-
mier Seddon, who is apparently leaning towards
British Freetrade ideas as another result of his
new outbreak of British war-patriotism, throws in
his lot in this matter with the cause of cheapness
and sweaterdom. It is just as mean, disgraceful,
unchristian, and undemocratic to patronise the
European sweater, when it is possible to avoid
doing so, as to encourage the local sweater, and
the old Seddon would never have done such a
thing. The new Seddon appears to be built on
different lines, somehow.
♦
That was a significant answer made by Premier
Lyne to a question put him as to whether he
favored the occupation by one man of seats both
in the State and Federal Parliaments. Lyne
wriggled, but, in the end, vaguely defined his alti-
tude. He said “he had not given the matter
very careful consideration” (!!!), and then he
“ gave it as his opinion that the ques-
tion should be dealt with at the general
elections.” So he hadn’t given the matter
“ very careful consideration ” ! Incredible.
The matter is not only one obviously including tf.e
very political life-blood of Premier Lyne himself,
but it has been a burning one in Cabinet and
Parliamentary circles for months past. Ex-
Premier Reid, four weeks ago, made an emphatic
declaration against dual seats. Just look through
this escape door held congenially ajar.
The next general elections may not take place till
October, 1901. The present Parliament does not
expire till August. The Federal poll will be taken
in February and March, and Lyne and four of his
colleagues, and more than 50 per cent, of members
are in the field as candidates. If the question of
dual seats be postponed till the next State Parlia-
ment determines the matter, then Lyne, if
successful in the Federal fight, might retain
the State Premiership and a seat in the Common-
wealth Parliament for eight months at least; and
his successful colleagues would be somewhat
similarly favored; while successful State mem-
bers would draw double salaries for dual duties
from the meeting of the Federal Parliament till
the dissolution of N. S. W. Assembly. Again, should
the Lyne Ministry be returned at the General
Election by a good majority, and should
many State members also hold seats in the Federal
Parliament, is there any guarantee that Lyne, in
October of next year, will have given the test
question “any serious consideration”? As he
believes in shirking the question now, he may
be relied upon to shirk it with greater de-
termination than ever should he successfully run
tlie gauntlet of the Federal and State elections.
The idea of awaiting the verdict of the State
elections is the shallowest of subterfuges. The
people are just as unanimously opposed to dual
seats as they are opposed to dual billets with dual
salaries in the civil service. If Lyne is only
temporarily opposed to legislation to meet the
question then he is seeking a privilege which will
not be extended to any future State premier. If
the principle of dual representation is admittedly
pernicious why should its abolition be deferred in
the special interests of placemen for the time
being ?
The Boer plot to kidnap Lord Roberts and kill
his staff may have had its genesis in the reading
of a book written by a most excellent English-
man. Sir Thomas More, in his “ Utopia,” thus
describes the methods of the Utopians in their
conduct of war:—
As soon as they declare war they take care to have a
great many schedules, that are sealed with their common
seal, affixed in the most conspicuous places of their
enemies’ country. This is carried out secretly and done in
many places all at once. In these they promise great
rewards to such as shall kill the prince, and lesser in pro-
portion to such as shall kill any other persons, who
are those on whom, next to the prince himself,
they cast the chief balance of the war. And they
double the sum to him that, instead of killing the
person so marked out, shall take him alive and put him
in their hands. . . . They very much approve of this way
of corrupting their enemies, though it appears to others
to he base and cruel; but they look on it as a wise course,
to make an end of what would be otherwise a long war,
without so much as hazarding one battle to de-
cide it. They think it likewise an act of mercy
and love to mankind to prevent the great slaughter of
those that must otherwise be killed in the progress
of the war, both on their own side and on that of their
enemy, by the death of a few that are most guilty ; and


ga
THE TRANSVAAL WAR!
The PREMO CAMERA
18 IN THE FRONT RANK
OF HAND CAMERAS,
AND CANT BE BEATEN.
Price, 255. to £2O.
AGENTS —
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.
375 George-st.,
SYDNEY.
260 Colltns-st., Melbourne. 81 Queen-st., Brisbane.
65 Rundle-st. , Adelaide.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
The Oldest and Largest International Life Company.
Has 40,000 more Policy-holders than the next Largest Company, and more Insurance in force.
Chief Office-
-76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
THOMAS P. PXJRVES,
General Manager, Dept, of Australasia.
that in' so doing they are kind even to their enemies, and
pity them no less than their own people, as knowing that
the greater part of them do not engage in the war of their
own aooord, but are driven into it by the passions of their
prince.
Now, who among those Boer plotters had been
reading More’s “ Utopia ” lately ?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Rose of Persia.”
Royal “ How London Lives.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Criterion “ The Power of Wealth.”
Palace “What Happened to Jones.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Trilby.”
Theatre Royal “ Serving the Queen.”
Bijou Rickards’ Variety Co.
A great deal of money Happened to Jones
on that maddened commercial traveller’s opening
night in Sydney. The Palace theatre overflowed,
and the public surged in the painted vestibule,
and jammed on the marble stairs, and poured over
the costly decorations generally. The boom has
rather increased than diminished since then as
Jones and his lost coat-tail grow more familiar, so
it seems that the American bagman has come to
stay. Arnold’s new play is fun pure and
simple. An unworldly professor is beguiled to
a prize-fight because he is told it is to be a
great exhibition of “science,” and he gets a
black eye when the police stop the exhibition,
and as no such disgraceful thing ever happened to
him before he tries unworthy means of conceal-
ment. Therefore when Jones, who has stoushed
a policeman in getting away and is “ wanted,”
takes refuge in his house, and refuses to quit till
the coast is clear, the sad old man with the black
eye lacks the courage to throw Jones out. He
becomes a temporary slave to Jones as the price
of that airy bagman’s silence about his eye and
the prize-fight. He lets Jones pass himself off as
a clerical brother from Australia. He doesn’t
even murmur at Jones’s clothes being concealed in
the piano, and when Jones, in his capacity as a
■relative, kisses the family generally, he only has
fits silently in a corner. The play is wrongly
named, for nothing really happens to Jones —it is
Jones who happens to the old man. Even when
the real clerical brother turns up, and, because
Jones has his clothes, moons round the house in a
blanket, the old gentleman takes it in a chastened
spirit. “ Jones ”is built on the same lines as a
hundred other farcical comedies ; the old man who
has been out on a frisky night and has a black-
ened optic and a mystery to conceal from his wife
is the oldest of comedy props, and Jones as a
clergyman trying to explain the nature of the
kangaroo, is brother to Walker of London as an
African explorer expounding the ourang-outang.
But the new production is good enough to go all
the same.
* * * 9
Charles Arnold has brought an excellent
company with him. Hans the Boatman of olden
days is a revelation in farcical comedy; it is a
line of business of which he was not generally
suspected, and the cheerful, airy insolence of his
bagman Jones reveals the poetic Hans in quite a
new character. His brightness does wonders to
disguise the fact that the resources of “Jones”
are in themselves a trifle limited. It looks a very
clever comedy as Arnold does it, but in the hands
of anyone a little slower and heavier it would pro-
bably fall down very suddenly. Frederic Sharp’s
crushed professor is memorable. He reveals new
possibilities in the way of the crushed husband
and flattened parent; he is an ambling apology
and a chronic cry of woe. Five ladies of the
flattened one’s family—Miss Agnes Knights, Inez
Bensusan, Hope Mayne, Dot Frederic, and Sallie
Booth —give such general satisfaction that the
work of disentangling them is postponed. Miss
Dot Frederic, however, has the largest oppor-
tunity, and she fills it like a gleam of sunshine, and
is only restrained with great difficulty from finding
Jones’s pants in the piano. Also, Miss Ada Lee
deserves a line to herself; the sluggish, foreign
slavey, who blackmails her master in a foreign
accent, is an institution that is going to be very
popular.
* • * •
Miss Frederic bas another opportunity in
a pretty little one-act introductory play, “An
Empty Stocking.” This is an attic idyll, in which
an unsuccessful writer is trying hard to bring up
a hungry child in cold weather. A good deal of
pathos centres round a dubious leg of mutton and
an orange. The small and empty one has hung
up one of her two stockings to see if Santa Claus
will put anything in it, and owing to extraordinary
circumstances that mythical person is more punc-
tual than usual. A baby gem, little Edna Arnold,
gets most of the credit out of this little scene;
but Miss Frederic, as a disagreeable girl from
downstairs, comes a good second, and there is
some honor left over for Frank Denton and
George Willoughby—the former in particular.
** * *
A gentleman who can’t be too warmly en-
couraged has opened a novel variety show at
the Temperance Hall, opposite Sydney Criterion.
It is mainly anatomical, and deals with sections of
the human frame in glass cases and elsewhere. As
one goes in, the bony, hairless vestige of what was
once his best girl, or what his best girl will one
day become, stands before him in an easy attitude
in the centre of the f100r... She has nothing on—
not even her flesh, and she is kept upright by a
wire. Then the visitor realises for the first time
how ridiculously long his best girl’s toes really
are, and how they look like five distorted pen-
holders sticking out of her foot. On the left are a
scalped head showing the skull; another with the
skull partly sawn off showing the brain like a mis-
cellaneous substance in a jug; and another
with the brain emptied out —the thinking
substance being alongside on a saucer.
Samples of heads troubled with uncommon
diseases are plentiful—one very shocking head
in particular is calculated to make the public
swear off drink for ever lest it should meet the
wearer with that head on in the garden of its
dreams. The internal organs of people who died
through drink are a strongfeature. One of them is a
huge, flattened-out, brownish substance that
seems to have settled down in its case like a legal
precedent settling down on the chest of unborn
generations. There is a baby ribbon, or some-
thing akin thereto, round this affrighting object,
and it is somehow reminiscent of the countenance
of the policeman that Happened to Jpnes. It is
the hobnailed liver of a person who was brought
down on the bottle, and, judging by its size, he
must have worn it doubled up. A casual, baggy
circumstance that won’t stand up by itself and re-
quires to be propped proves to be a plain, ordi-
nary, every-day stomach, and the stout, darkish
objects that might be small footballs struck by
lightning are kidneys. A nicely-dressed lady in a
case, completely clothed except as to her head and
feet, is lectured upon and unscrewed to show how
one’s best girl is constructed.
* * * •
And, after seeing all these and many
more, including the full-sized skinned citizen, no
person of imagination could really want to have a
best girl again. And no one would respect a great
thinker again; he would simply say: “I know
what he does it with ; I saw it in a saucer !” It is
all very good to realise that we are fearfully and
wonderfully made, but it seems a | ity that we are
made so red and damp, and with so many bluish
streaks and stringy organs and baggy substances.
Also the writer has a grievance that he will never
get over against some of his own vitals after seeing
how they sink down and spread out in a large pool
on a plate. Still he will probably go back and
look at all these things again. It may not be
pleasant to think that he looks like that,
but it is satisfactory to reflect that many
people whom he knows and doesn’t like
look like that also. When he considers the
huge brown liver, and remembers that everyone of
his creditors has a matter of that kind inside him,
there is satisfaction in it. Also when he looks at
the baggy internal organ, and remembers the man
who didn’t appreciate his best poem, there is balm
in the conjunction of ideas ; a person containing
such a common-looking substance would naturally
be unable to understand poetry. In short, every-
body who is blighted or lost or unappreciated
should go to the Temperance Hall and see what
his detractors are composed of, and then ask him-
self if anything better can be expected from people
with such contents. This scribe, anyhow, has
now sworn off the foolish habit of lending money—
has sworn off for ever. He never knew before
what kind of thing he was lending it to. Now
that he does know he would as soon trust a fantod
or a jim-jam.
** * *
“Rose of Persia ” has only another week
to run at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, and this de-
serving opera will depart much regretted. There
is a general impression that it might have stayed
longer if it had wanted to, but possibly previous
arrangements got in the way. The Bulletin will
try to fix up a fitting epitaph next week, and
meanwhile that section of the public which hasn’t
yet seen Brownlow’s latest monarch is warned
that time is fleeting and seats in the front row are
scarce.
* * * Jfc
Bland Holt undertakes to produce this
Saturday an entirely new play called “How
London Lives.” Therefore the “ Absent-Minded
Beggar ” will cease on Friday night, and he bids
fair to leave De Wet still uncaptured, and the
drama’s namesake still hustling vainly after the
agile Botha.
** * *
The earthquake which brings down a large
building on top of the erring wife at Sydney
Criterion is beginning to attract some notice.
The “ Power of Wealth ” is a deserving play', and
some of the characters in it are more than deserv-
ing—notably Dampier himself, Buffer’s cynical
old clo’ man, and the bright and original Italian
drunk mentioned last week. And the scene
wherein Miss Lily Dampier finds that she has re-
married her lost husband —the man who was
buried alive —is a really powerful piece of
work. But the impressive earthquake which
should end this scene is apt to be erratic,
and on two occasions a piece of the building has
fallen prematurely on Miss Dampier, and some-
what injured the coherence of things. The writer
here diverges violently to state that Mr. Dampier
lately gave a benefit in aid of St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital. Gross takings were a little over £110;
expenses, £lO 10s.; profit for the hospital, £lOO
and some fraction. Which casts a little extra
disgrace on that much larger society-benefit at the
Lyceum, where the takings were nearly twice as
much, and the balance which was left for charity
was £3 14s. Id. That £3 14s. Id. will take a great
deal of hard forgetting. By way of further diver-
gence and parenthesis it may be mentioned that
“ Hamlet” is still on view at the Criterion Friday
nights.
** * *
No new stars have appeared in the Tivoli
firmament, but several old stars have furbished
themselves up a little. Madame Cordelia has a
song that seems to be the request of a young man
tohisgirl to be as pure asthespring. Present writer
has not noticed any more notable purity about the
spring tide or the spring mattress (whichever is
meant) than about any other bed or season.
Charles Walker’s song, “Take your clothes
and go,” is punctuated by the clothes
in question, but they are quite harmless —
merely a bundle of collars and one cuff. The
Coon Ballet is beginning to be a weariness, mainly
because the coons are rather stiff in the joints and
the coon-leader rather small in the voice.
** * *
“Constance Clyde ” is justly severe on a
“ drammer ” :
There has just concluded, at Sydney Royal Standard,
an impressive “drammer” called “Waiting for the Ver-
dict,” in which a good many crimes are offered to an
appreciative audience for 3d. (best seats, Is.). It is the
usual pathetic tale of the man (young this time), who
clings to the old home, though the Lord of the Castle has
offered a goodly sum for it, and though his wife is sick and
his aged parent is enjoying nothing to eat in the same Old
Home, which, as staged, seems to consist mostly of one wall
gone askew and an eanviggy attic. The hero, who is very
well dressed, declares himself to be out of work, and as
there is no prospect of his getting any work, his conduct
in clinging to the Old Home where the wife and the aged
but invisible parent starve haughtily, when he might get
much money and buy food with it by selling the place, is
as much out of dravving as the Old Home itself. Mean-
while, the agent of the Lord of the Castle is so anxious to
add the Old Home to his master’s stately halls that he
bribes his own special agent to get the hero arrested for
poaching. The agent’s agent thereupon gives the hero
an alleged hare tied up in a bag, whereupon the agent
and the local magistrate and a policeman appear upon the
scene, and proceed to try the case in the hero’s backyard.
Nobody thinks of looking into the bag to see if it really is
a hare, so the noble-hearted clergyman pays a five pounds
fine for what may just as well be a cat, or some-
body’s washing, or to-morrow’s leg of mutton. Later
the Lord of the Castle is shown as overcome
with remorse for having led somebody’s sister astray.
The led-astray girl's brother then comes in and offers to
settle the matter by a duel in the moonlight glade. The
young Lord goes to the glade aforesaid and whiles away
the time, while waiting, by counting over a thousand
pounds in notes, which he happens to have about him, in
order that the agent’s agent ma.v have some reason to kill
him with a club, which he promptly does. The hero, who
has come along to hit the agent’s agent with another
club, finds the Lord of the Castle beside a blasted oak,
and for no visible reason rushes off, leaving his hat
as incriminating evidence behind him. Thereupon,
the led - astray girl’s brother, who intended to kill
the Lord himself, is very indignant at this das-
tardly crime, and vows to bring the murderer
to the gallows. There is nothing whatever against
the hero except the hat, so he is put in a felon’s cell, and
dressed in an effective navy-blue suit with small arrows
all over it, and a liberal allowance of clanking chain. He
is about to be introduced to an uncertain and harmless-
looking gallows, when various people wander casually
into the place of execution to say that he is innocent.
The led-astray girl's brother, or someone very like him,
tumbles in with a reprieve which he finds he hasn't got,
because the agent, who is still determined to get the cot-
tage, sneaked it away from him. Then the wife rushes
in with a club, or a bar of iron, or something, with
which the deed was really done, and at last the
agent's agent comes in and confesses to the crime
in order to annoy the agent. As the A.’s A. will be
hanged himself, and as nothing very much can be done to
the agent, who has not killed anyone, this scheme of ven-
geance seems a little bit off the track. Anyway, by virtue
of the bar of iron, and the confession, and the reprieve
that wasn’t there, the hero gets off and retires to the
Humble Home to starve cheerfully as before. The moral
of this play seems to be that small, ricketty cottages are
a great inducement to crime in people who possess large-
sized castles, and that if poor people were forced to live
in really big, comfortable places a great deal of stage-
villainy would be spared.
*« * *
The last but one performance of the
Brough Co. at Melbourne Princess’s was an in-
teresting revival of “ The Village Priest,” with
trusty Robert in the name part. To call R.B. a
“ great "’ impersonator of the good old abbe would
be an exaggeration. He doesn’t thrill his
audience in the miracle scene any more than
Titheradge did of yore. The story goes that the
late Bill Leake once upon a time gave a startling
impression of the priest whose open Bible gets
touched by the hand of God. The Bulletin will
not quarrel with the theory that Leake (rest his
soul!) was a stronger artist than Brough in his
feeling for a holy stage miracle. All the same
Brough’s treatment of the character is highly
effective, and as further evidence of his versa-
tility it is remarkable. The man who can
in one short season produce clever pictures of
Lord Bapchild, two or three polished worldlings,
the clownish police constable in “ Dandy Dick,”
and finally L’Abbe Dubois, is an actor with a
large “ A.” Everybody remembers Brough as
the escaped convict in “The Village Priest”—
the nervous force of his railing against the unjust
judge, the sincerity of his grief, the many touches
of nature (i.e., art) that won sympathy for Jean
Torquenie. In Mario Majeroni’s hands the con-
vict seems not half as real as he used to be,
although tall Mario is an intelligent player and a
striking stage figure. This comparative failure is
merely instanced out of compliment to the
admirable all-round artist who runs the co.
** * *
On Monday the Broughs revived “The
Tyranny of Tears ” for their farewell appearance,
and now they are in Adelaide, or thereabouts.
The Princess’s for the next seven weeks will be
awaiting the arrival of George Musgrove’s opening
show —a grand opera, the name whereof is about
to burst into print. The pretty theatre is to be
refurnished and generally touched up at vast
expense to G.M. aforesaid, and rumor suggests
that the return of the prodigal manager from
London —Nellie Stewart is to be of the co.
—will be celebrated by an advance' in the
Erice of boss seat 3. Meanwhile, the stage is a
arren waste, and the electric-light is turned off
at the meter.
** * *
Miss Edith Crane, and other people whom
Melbourne either affectionately remembers or
will be glad to meet for the first time, falls due at
Her Majesty’s on Saturday. They start with
“Trilby.” The Svengali drama made its biggest
Australian success in Melbourne four years ago,
and since then it has gathered some more noto-
riety from a burlesque, so, both things considered,
the revival of “Trilby” should hum joyfully.
#* * *
It happens that Her Majesty’s is likewise
out of work for a couple of nights. Nance O’Neil
was advertised to wind up her profitable season on
Wednesday, and at time of writing the advt.
showed no signs of departing from its word.
There will be a return of Nance anon, but for the
present she has passed away .from Melbourne,
leaving two widely different opinions behind her.
The writer of this notice holds on with both hands
and all his remaining teeth to the opinion that
Nance in her capacity of “star” actress playing
famous “star” characters is a gigantic de-
lusion, and to anyone who quotes the gor-
geous notices bestowed on Nance by the press,
and points to her large audiences as proof of her
ability, this scribe replies that Amy Castles got
gorgeous notices, and her show was rushed by
24,000 people in two nights. And yet this scribe
will cheerfully admit that Nance does not altoge-
ther disappoint her non-admirers, meaning those
who say they “don’t see so very much in her.”
As a matter of fact, they do see very much in her.
She is the biggest actress of commanding charac-
ters they have ever witnessed, and she is doubtless
the only Fedora, Magda, Camille, &c., in the
wide world who looks out of place when she sits
down.
»* * *
The ancient “ Ingomar” was Nance’s bill
last Saturday night. “ Ingomar ”is a queer old-
fashioned yarn, in stilted verse (blank and other-
wise) of a mythical barbarian who wore long,
greasy curls on the back of his head, until a white-
robed maiden, of mythical artlessness, soothed his
savage breast and induced him to get his hair cut.
“ Ingomar ” is not an exciting play, and the day
when leading ladies fancied themselves as Par-
tlienia is yesterday, as a rule. Beautiful Mary
Anderson brought Parthenia back to light some
years ago, therefore Mary’s charming young dis-
ciple, Essie deny ns, played the part in Australia.
A graceful woman, who is also a finished elocution-
ist, can make herself very pleasant as Parthenia,
especially if she be contrasted with a heavy and
barbaric Ingomar. Nance O’Neil is not conspicu-
ously graceful, neither is her elocution good, or
her face poetic in its expressions, so the contrast
between massive Nance and beauteous Plimmer in
the name part was an entertaining novelty. It
set one wondering whether Nance was taming
Plimmah or Plimmah was taming Nance.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal, the drama of the
moment is a fairly peaceable matter, known as
“Serving the Queen,” and its course of military
color and gilded sin covers five acts. The charac-
ters belong mostly to the Queen’s Own Lancers,
and they often threaten to go forth and save the
Empire, as British soldiers should, but some of
them are busily engaged in wrecking the happi-
ness of Inman, whilst the others are proving his
innocence, so the Empire has to keep the Flag
flying without any assistance from the regiment
in question. “Serving the Queen,” in fact,
is the sort of military drama that might
just as well be based on the boot - trade
or me butter industry, but for the moral
effect of the uniforms that furnish a neces-
sary clue to the title. Inman, apparently, is a
simple, virtuous trooper, beloved by the gallant
Colonel’s daughter. Also he has a mother who
nurses lunatics at a public asylum, and when
mother and sort meet a learned judge by acci-
dent at Shorncliffe camp, the old lady casually
informs her offspring that the learned judge
is his father. Nothing comes of the re-
lationship until Inman has been sentenced
to a term of lunatic asylum for murdering
a parson, after which the villain, H. O. Willard,
is run to earth at the instigation of a
Hebrew money-lender with a kind heart. In one
of the preceding dramas villain Willard didn’t get
overthrown, which explains the particular delight
of the gallery at Willard’s downfall on this occa-
sion. The “comic relief,” by Bert Bailey,
Herbert Linden, and Miss Hilda Fraser, is not
the saddest part of “ Serving the Queen.” In the
agony department Inman, Miss Duggan, Willard,
and Godfrey Cass are leading features, also Harry
Douglas is a somewhat commendable Israelite, and
the scenery plays its part with much intelligence.
“Serving trie Queen” will run for three weeks
and then retire in favor of John F. Sheridan and
Co.
** # *
Harry Shine is the latest returned wan-
derer at Melb. Bijou. Harry’s talent for getting
through a lot of remarks in a brief period helps to
balance the programme as it were, because the
Martinettis say nothing in forty minutes. Panto-
mimist Paul and his co. produced “The Keyhole”
on Saturday night. “ The Keyhole ”is an in-
genious little dumb-show, containing more humor
and less extravagance than the knockabout “ Duel
in the Snow,” but seeing that the Martinettis will
be moving along towards England in another week
or so, they would supply a want by reviving
“Robert Macaire” before they go. “ Macaire”
is the panto, that has a strong backbone and an
immortal soul.
The Wild Cat Column.
When the A.M.P. Society issues its ballot
papers for a straight “ yes” or “ no ” vote on the proposal
to give the directors power to extend the business,
if they choose, to England, Canada, Sierra Leone,
India, Ceylon, Burmah, Hong Kong, British Guiana
and all the other healthy or unhealthy spots of
the British empire, The Bulletin urges every mem-
ber to vote No, for these reasons among many
others : (1) The assurance that the extension will lead to
a great increase of business is quite true, but in a mutual
concern increased business does not mean increased profits
for the members, unless the new business is as profitable
as the old. The Australian and outside policy-holders
must share the profits equally, and even if the A.M.P.
doubles its business by going outside Australia, and even
if the new business pays handsomely, still unless it pays as
handsomely as the Australian business does the Aus-
tralian policy-holders will get less profit. (2) Tiie
Bulletin’s reasons for saying that the British
business won’t pay as handsomely as the Aus-
tralian business does are these: (a) The death-rate
is very much higher in Britain than Australia, which
means less profit. ( b ) The interest-rate is lower in Britain
than in Australia, which means less profit, (c) No British
ordinary life office earns such high interest or pays such
large bonuses as the A.M.P., so unless the A.M.P. people
are going to England to teach their grandmother how to
suck eggs—are going to show the great British life insti-
tutions that they don’t know their own country and their
own business —the A.M.P. must also earn less profits in
Britain, and thereby reduce the average profits all round.
And (3) the fact that the officers of the society are largely
in favor of the extension doesn’t necessarily prove that
it is good for the policy-holders. The officers have
interests quite apart from the policy-holders, and may
be unconsciously biassed. Expansion, even though it
may reduce the policy-holders’ profits, and so be bad for
them, is dead sure to be good for the officers. It means
more billets. The secretaryship in London will be a very
handsome prize for somebody. The London directorships
will be more handsome prizes. London is a pleasant
place, and it is the great life assurance centre of the
world, so the men who go there in a subordinate capacity
have chances of transplanting themselves into better
positions in great English offices. There is no lack of in-
ducement for the officers of the A.M.P. to believe in the
expansion policy.
It is at least to be hoped that the vote this time
will be not influenced by office interference. In the
matter of the proxies, branch managers, by instructions
from head-office, hustled round for proxies which they
gathered in freely, often from people who hadn’t time
to think, or hadn’t heard the merits of the case, or didn’t
really know how their proxies were to be used.
The men that the policy-holders pay, and the machinery
the policy-holders’ money provides, were employed to
rush the policy-holders into deciding as their servants —
the board—wanted them to decide. And the policy-holders
who are against the extension object to any part of their
premiums being used in promoting the extension policy.
They don’t ask that the cost of their own anti-extension
propaganda shall be paid out of the premiums, and they
want the management to fight fairly.
* * • •
The Standard Life Association (Limited) of
Sydney, the newest among the rush of little proprietary
life insurance oflices in this country, publishes its first


REPLY TO NUMEROUS ENQUIRIES
We desire to inform the Trade and
the Public generally that
THE PRICE OF
Zetz-Spa Water
HAS
MOT BEEN INCREASED
Beware of Unscrupulous Imitators who endeavor
to palm off Inferior and Concocted Compounds.
WE ARE ONLY BOTTLERS
or
ZETZ-SPA
Which comes straight from our NATURAL
SPRINGS at BALLIMORE, and are
WOT
iErated Water Manufacturers.
Zetz-Spa Proprietary, [td.
Famous
AS SUPPLIED TO THE BRITISH
HAVY AHD WAR OFFICE.
PACKED IN 4, 2 & 1 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
Cope Bros, ft Co., Ltd, Liverpool. Agents; i, Rutty ft Go., Sydney,
“ THE FINEST - -
SMOKING TOBACCO
IN THE WORLD.’*
The success of the flotation of the 60,000 fully
paid-up shares in the Western Consolidated Silver Mines,
Zeehan, Tasmania, is now practically assured. Shares
have been applied for largely in all the Australian colonies
and New Zealand. The list will shortly close. The direc-
tors have secured the services of Mr. P. G. Morris as their
mine manager. Mr. Morris has been principal under-
ground manager of the Western Silver Mine for seven
vears, and this gives him a thorough knowledge of the
Zeehan lodes, and as he has been engaged in them on the
very boundary of the Western Consolidated co’s property,
it should be of special value to this co.*
» * * *
Insukance Spectator, July Ist, 1899: “The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society stands on a brood
and firm basis. Its interests are widely spread. It laa
the confidence of the assuring public, a strong pro-
gramme, and energetic management.”*
* * * *
The Austral Otis Engineering Co. have just
completed a concentrating test on the Wilfley Table in-
stalled at their South Melbourne works of a parcel of
crushed ore representing the second product from the
concentrating Mill at the Conrad Mine, owned by Mr. J.
Howell, which hitherto has all been stacked on the mine
waiting the advent of a machine that would profitably
treat it without re-crushing. The result of the Wilfley
test is a high-grade concentrate, and tailing waste show-
ing very little values, and the Otis Co. have despatched
the tables for erection on the mine.*
* * » *
A representative of the firm of Gilfillan and
M'Creery, Mining Engineers, Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne, will shortly leave for London to attend to the
flotation of several important mining properties. Mine
owners who desire flotation are requested to furnish par-
ticulars at once.*
* • * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-street, 74.
Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
Messrs. Plummer Love and Co., 249 George-
street, Sydney, are large suppliers of all mining requi-
sites. They are sole agents here for the now celebrated
“ British ” brand of explosives, detonators and fuse ; also
for the Taylor Horsfleld Improved National Rock Drills,
Air Compressors, &c., &c.*
* * » *
The quantity of sulphides now treated per week
at the “ Barrier” compares favorably with the output of
any silver-lead mining field in the world. The difficulty
in treatment of sulphides is being successfully grappled
with mainly owing to improved systems of mechanical
“dressing.” In this the Luhrig Vanner plays a very
prominent part. A large number of these machines are
now in use there, and fresh orders are still being given to
the agents, Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, Melbourne. The
South Mine people are remodelling their mill on up-to-
date lines, and will install twelve or more Luhrig Vanners
of the 1900 pattern. The British Co. is also erecting
more of these superior machines.*
» * * *
Ward off influenza by taking
Row’s Quinine Bitters.
Sold by all Hotels and Chemists.
* * * *
Norman Godkin, of 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
Is prepared to purchase or develope, with option of
purchase, “big prospecting shows” (either gold or
mineral) in any part of Australia. Properties offered
must be subject to inspection. Cable address: “Option,”
Melbourne.*
* * * m
Mr. Mepban Ferguson, Engineer, Ironfounder,
&c., of Melbourne, Adelaide, and Perth, reports that the
great demand for spiral riveted pipes has necessitated the
increase of manufacturing facilities at his Footscray
works, and he is now in a position to supply orders at
very short notice, for all sizes of pipes from six to twenty
inches in diameter, with either patent cast-iron bolted
joints, flanged joints or the ordinary spigot and faucet
lead joints. Mr. Ferguson also manufactures boilers,
pumps, fluming, patent Nelyambo earth-scoops or tank-
cleaners, rabbit exterminators, refrigerators, ice-making
machinery, bolts, nuts, forgings, andallsortsofiron-work.*
* * » *
Urinary troubles speedily relieved
By taking Row’s Bucuu Bitters.
To be obtained at Hotels and Chemists.
• * • * *
Mt. Deddick Railway (Vic.): The £lO,OOO
deposit on this scheme should have been paid over in
London by the promoters last week. Vic. Mines Minister
is believed to have received a cable on the subject, bub
will make no official announcement, though he says “ it
will be all right.” If the money has been put up the
Minister is excused for breaking it gently. If not the
Deddick crowd had better shut up.
BLEACHING POWDER, 36/38”
Caustic Soda, Carb. Soda, Borax, Litharge.
CYANIDE
GUARANTEED
98/100%
Bone Ash, Zinc Shavings, Crucibles.
MANGANESE 8170
Ny. Markwald,
178 William-street,
Melbourne ;
11 Pitt-st., Sydney; 68 Currie-st., Adel.; 27 Eagle-street,
Bnsb. ; Lambton Quay, Wellington, NZ.;
Water-street , Dunedin; Queen-street, Auckland.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
1 St. James’s Buildings,
113 WILLIAM STREET,
Melbourne.
Buyers of all kinds of Metals and Ores.
Importers of Cyanide of Potassium (98/100 per cent,
pure), Blasting- Powder, Caustic Boda, Mining
Requisites, Candles, eto.
b dance-sheet—to 30th June, 1900. It covers a period of
14 months, and the results are :
Income.
Premiums .. £9OBB
Interest .. 105
£9193
Outgoings.
Claims .. £216
Expenses .. 12,998
£13,214
Deficit on 14 months’ working, £4021. The Standard Life
Association represents things somewhat differently by
charging only £7998 of -the expenses to this year and call-
ing the other £5OOO an asset under the name of “ New
Easiness Extension Account,” it being understood, of
course, that this will be gradually written off in future
years. Still, the above is the exact situation. The co.
started with £12,500 paid-up capital, of which £8479 is
still apparently intact.
Whether the results are bad or moderately good it
is difficult to say owing to the form in which the accounts
are presented. The Standard Life Association does both
ordinary life insurance and the penny and twopence and
threepence a week industrial business. A new office,
doing ordinary life business only, finds a great part of the
first year’s receipts swallowed up in expenses, for it is new
life business that costs (renewal business is comparatively
cheap) and its business is all new. (The A.M.P. in its first
year received £268, and expenses absorbed £173 of this.)
New industrial business is still more costly ; it is so costly
that more than the first year's premium on a new indus-
trial policy usually goes in expenses incurred in persuad-
ing the insured to" take the policy. If the first 14 months’
business of the Standard Life Association consists
mostly of ordinary life business then the expense rate
is a great deal heavier than it ought to be. If it consists
very largely of industrial policies then the expense rate
may be really much lighter than is usually the case in the
first year of a company which goes in for that thriftless
and unsatisfactory line of business whereby everybody
who pays Is. a week gets about fid. worth of value in the
shape of insurance while the other 6d. or thereabouts
goes in expenses. The Standard Life Association doesn’t
say how much of its premiums come from the ordinary
life business and how much from industrial insurance.
So no estimate can be formed as to the economy or other-
wise of the management. If it proposes to keep on
lumping the two together no estimate can ever be formed.
The best thing it can do is to re-issue its balance-sheet
with the accounts of the two branches distinct, and to
keep them distinct in all future balance-sheets. The
Standard Life Association has done a remarkably large
business for an office in its first year, and its investments
so far are mostly in safe Government securities.
The industrial assurance business is always
more or less amusing, though the Standard certainly
treats its insurers quite as well as the average. For in-
stance, under on£ of its endowment tables a person, by
paying Is. per week, can get from the Standard Associa-
tion at the end of eight years, if he is then alive, £2l—
is his money back and 4s. interest. (The same
amount, put in the Barrack-street savings-bank at 3|- per
cent., would yield about £23 10s. in the same time). If
the insured gets tired and drops his payments after (say)
3 years and 9 months (there is no surrender value until
half the period of the insurance is expired) the £9 15s. he
has already paid is absolutely forfeited. (The Barrack-
street Savings Bank—G. Dibbs, manager—would give him
back his £9 15s. and interest as well.) If he dies within
the eight years the co. doesn’t pay the full amount of the
policy ; it hands back the premiums paid without in-
terest. (The Barrack-street Savings Bank hands them
back with interest). So this remarkable table doesn’t
give any life insurance ; it is merely a system under
which the co. takes care of its customer’s savings at very
much less interest than the Savings Bank pays, and for-
feits them if he stops saving before half the term agreed
upon is expired, which the Savings Bank doesn’t. The
industrial insurance business is full of hilarious jokes.
* * * * *
The accounts of the Union Bank of. Australia,
for the six months ended 28th February, 1900, show a
most remarkable improvement, and this is by far the best
return this institution has shown for at least 8J years.
Comparative figures are as follows
Profits. Dividends.
February, 1892.. £84,900 12 per cent. =£90,000
August, 1892 .. 84,652 12 „ = 90,000
February, 1893.. 69,609 8 „ = 60,000
August, 1893 .. 60,295 8 „ = 60,000
February, 1894.. 44,132 6 „ = 45,000
August, 1894 .. 44,676 6 „ = 45,000
February, 1895.. 37,173 5 „ = 37,500
August, 1895 .. 36,063 5 „ = 37,500
February, 1896.. 37,996 5 „ = 37,500
August, 1896 .. 58,837 5 „ = 37,500
February, 1897.. 37,578 5 „ = 37,500
August, 1897 .. 37,436 5 „ = 37,500
February, 1898.. 47,696 5 „ = 37,500
August, 1898 .. 42,578 5 = 37,500
February, 1899.. 42,071 6 „ = 45,000
August, 1899 .. 48,514 6 „ = 45,000
February, 1900.. 92,002 7 „ = 52,500
£906,208 £832,500
The Union Bank has thus a surplus of £73,708 in the last
8J years. Of this £20,000 has already been written off.
It is now proposed to add £50,000 to reserve fund, raising
it from £750,000 to £BOO,OOO, and at the same time £50,000
appears to be written off the Contingency fund of £250,000
(created in 1896 by transferring that amount from reserve)-.
This £250,009 was set aside to cover losses then existing,
or anticipated, so by writing off £50,000 the bank does
nothing but formally wipe out certain losses already
known and acknowledged. The reserves at 31st. August
1891 appeared as £1,016,156 (reserve fund £1,000,000 ;
undivided profit, 16,156). They now appear, after writing
off £70,000, as £1,019, 861 (reserve fund £BOO,OOO ; Con-
tingency fund, £200,003 ; undivided profit £19,864).
The Union Bank’s half-year’s profits are equiva-
lent to £7 7s. 2d. per cent per annum on the shareholders’
capital and reserve funds. Its stock of cash and liquid
securities is equal to £5,069,246. And a notable matter is
that the Board has decided hereafter to keep the whole
reserve fund of £BOO,OOO separately invested in British
Government securities. So that reserve fund, at all
events, will have a definite existence and location if ever
it chances to be wanted.
* • m •
Melbourne Hydraulic Power Co. presented a
rather cheering annual report for the year which closed
on 30th June, 1900. Going back as far as 1893 this in-
stitution shows the following results :
To
Profits. Renewal Dividends.
Reserve.
June, 1893 £10,039 £2,500 10 p.c. = £7,500
~ 189-1 10,667 2,500 10 ~ = 8,186
„ 1895 11,380 2,500 10 „ = 9,000
„ 1896 8,935 10 „ = 9,000
„ 1897 11,028 2,000 10 „ = 9,000
„ 1898 11,886 2,800 10 „ = 9,000
„ 1899 12,262 3,000 10 „ = 9,000
„ 1900 12,316 3,500 10 „ = 9,000
£88,513 £lB,BOO £69,686
The year 1896, when the profits dropped so suddenly, was
the one when the co. was struck by a heavy verdict over
the lamentable squashing of a popular lady singer in a
hydraulic jift. Apart from this disaster the Melbourne
Hydraulic 00. has been a very steady-going and pro-
gressive institution. It has a paid-up capital of ±.90,000.
There is no general reserve fund, but there is a fund of
£20,065 to cover depreciation and renewals, and as the
entire amount sunk in the co’s undertaking is £106,550,
this is equal to about 20 per cent. Also, the co. has
£579 undivided profit.
* • • *
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria continues
its career of misfortune. At 30th June, 1894, it was still
making a profit on paper, and it had reserve funds,
strictly on paper, of £118,161. About that date it effected
an arrangement with its £900,000 worth of debenture-
holders which fixed the interest at 4£ per cent. Since
then things have gone thus :
Loss through Loss through
insufficiency sale of pro-
of income pert.v Total
to cover below book Loss.
out- value,
goings. &c.
December, 1894 .. ..£6,038 £6,038
June, 1895 .. .. 6,617 6,617
December, 1895 .. .. 8,848 8,848
June, 1896 .. .. 9,697 9,697
December, 1896 .. .. 10,494 10,494
(Interest on £900,000 of debentures reduced from
4j to 3J per cent.)
June, 1897 .. .. 7,653 £5,718 13,371
December, 1897 .. .. 4,398 4,110 8,508
June, 1898 .. .. 4,230 6,685 10,915
December, 1898 .. .. 3,916 3,047 6,963
June, 1899 .. .. 4,198 not stated
December, 1899 .. .. 3,650 4,033 7,683
June, 1900 .. .. 3,244 5,562 8,806
Many other things have happened to the Land Mortgage
Bank which it is impossible to fully trace by reason of
the reticent character of some of its statements. It has
written-off amounts (not always specified) for irrecover-
able interest, expenses of converting debentures, &c. It
has called up some fresh capital with difficulty, and
applied it to buying up debentures at a discount, thereby
making a profit (not specified) which was sometimes
added to the balance (not specified) at credit of contin-
gency fund, while at June, 1899, the unspecified profit
made by the repurchase of debentures was set against the
unspecified loss by sale of property below book values, so
that both were unspecified, and remain in that state even
unto this day. But the net result is that where the Land
Mortgage Bank had £118,161 of reserves (reserve fund,
£105,000, and £13,161 undivided profit) at June, 1894, it
has now no reserve and an accumulated loss of £60,560.
The present situation is about this. The Land
Mortgage Bank, despite a slight diminution in the gap
between income and outgoings, is only earning enough to
pay 2,j per cent, interest on its debentures, ft is paying
3J per cent., and it obtained that concession with the
utmost difficulty. The concession, too, is only temporary ;
in another 18 months the rate reverts to 41 per cent.
Income being insufficient to meet outgoings, the concern
necessarily keeps selling its assets piecemeal in a bad
market for whatever they will fetch, and making more
and more losses, which might possibly be avoided if it
could pay its way out of revenue and nurse its assets. It
is living on its own tail, in fact. Paid-up capital is
£412,677, of which£6l,s6o is obviously lost, lea ving£352,117
nominally intact. Liabilities to debenture holders are
about £711,000. The invested assets yield only £2 2s. 9d.
per cent, gross on their nominal value, and assuming that
they yield 4 percent, gross on their real value, then said real
value is so low that the paid-up capital is all.lost, and there
isn’t enough, by at least £150,000, to pay the debenture-
holders. But there is about £700,000 of callable capital,
and with that asset in view the debenture-holders want
their lib. of flesh. If there was no callable capital they
would probably agree to reduce interest to 2J per cent.,
at which rate the Land Mortgage Bank might pull
through and come right after many years or thereabouts.
A prompt calling up of more capital to pay off the deben-
tures might also save the institution, but the small calls
already made were collected with great difficulty and not
very much success. Moreover, the uncalled capital is all
mortgaged to the debenture-holders, who have to be con-
sulted before anything can be done. And they are in
England, much scattered, difficult to get at, and appar-
ently not in a good temper.
* ♦ • •
The boom of the National Bank of Maoriland
still continues. At March, 1891, this concern had no
reserve-fund, not even an undivided profit-balance. It
had had a painful cleaning-up and was starting afresh,
after a great writing-off of capital and reserves. Since
then it has progressed thus
Carried )
Profits. to ' Dividends.
Reserves.
March, 1892.. £19,335 5 per cent. = £12.500
~ 1893.. 16,344 6 „ = 12,500
„ 1894 .. 16,997 5 „ 12,500
„ 1895 .. 16,431 5 12,500
„ 1896 .. 18,090 £20,000 5 „ 12,500
„ 1897.. 21,461 10,000 5 „ 12,500
„ 1898 .. 25,538 10,000 6 „ 15,000
„ 1899 .. 40,966 20,000 7 „ 17,500
„ 1900 . 42,347 20,000 8 „ 20,000
£217,509 £BO,OOO £127,500
The National Bank has thus accumulated in nine years a
new reserve fund of £BO,OOO, and the other £10,009, less
£2500 set aside as the nucleus of an officers’ pension-fund,
leaves £7509 undivided profit. The profits are at the very
remarkable rate of £l3 13s. 2d. per cent, per annum on
the shareholders’ capital and reserve fund. For some
reason or other the two Maoriland banks, doing business
in a country where capital is supposed to have been
“ driven out ” over and over again by socialistic legislation,
leave the Australian institutions hopelessly behind at
present in the matter of earnings. A good part of the
National Bank’s gaudy prosperity is doubtless owing to
the fact that it does a very large business on a very small
capital. The entire shareholders’ funds are now £337,509,
and the deposits and other liabilities to the public are
over £3,200,000. The National Bank’s reserve of cash and
State securities is £717,506, equal to a little over 22 per
cent, of all liabilities to the public. This is reasonably
strong, but no more. The policy of keeping the cash
reserves as low as can be done with anything like safety
is doubtless another thing which helps to keep the
earnings high. It is always just possible that some time
of panic might prove them a shade too low. Still the
National Bank of Maoriland seems to be prospering in a
most satisfactory fashion, for the present at all events.
• * * *
Broken Hill Water Supply Co. closed its best half-
year up to date at 30tli June, 1900. Profits were £19,557,
and £27,319 brought forward from 1899 made £46,876
available. A dividend at the rate of 12J per cent, per
annum absorbed £11,656; an addition of £lO,OOO was
made to reserve fund, and £25,220 was carried forward.
The Broken Hill Water Supply 00. has paid regular
dividends since 1894, and since the beginning of 1897 they
have varied between 10 and 15 per cent. It has now
nominal reserves of £45,220 (reserve fund, £20,000, and
undivided profit, £25,220). Yet its situation is hardly
good enough to justify the dividends it is paying, and its
reserve fund is largely, if not wholly, nominal. Among
its assets is an item of goodwill or preliminary expenses
described as “ Water rights, leases, Parliamentary Bills,
&c., at cost, £25,193.” This is a purely fictitious and
irrecoverable item which should be entirely written off.
Then there is a very big item “Construction account,
filtration plant, freehold land and dwelling house, at cost
£160,883.” In all the years the co. has been working
there has been apparently no allowance made for depre-
ciation of this huge asset, yet the depreciation must be
considerable. Plant isn’t immortal, by any means.
Probably it would be a fair and reasonable thing if the
balance-sheet of the Broken Hill Water Co. was made up
like this :
Liabilities.
Capital .. £186,500
Sundry Debts 1,64 p
Reserve Fund Nil
£188,140
A aqpfg
Water Rights, &c. Nil.
Plant, &c. (less De-
preciation) .. £157,481
Stores .. .. 1,177
Amounts due .. 4,457
Cash .. .. 25,025
£188,140
It would, at least, be much more business-like to write
the illusory item of “Rights, Leases and Parliamentary
Bill ” off the reserve fund, even if no allowance is made
for depreciation. This would reduce the nominal reserves
to about £20,000.
* ■ * » *
By the way, a remarkable paragraph in thereport
of the Broken Hill Water Supply 00. reads : “ It is the
intention of the directors to shortly issue the 13,500 shares
held in reserve by inviting tenders for same, the proceeds
from which will be placed to the credit of Reserve Fund.”
If the proceeds are put to reserve then there will naturally
be no dividend on these shares, and they will be quite
unsaleable, and the money paid for them will simply be a
present made to the other shareholders. In fact, they
won’t be shares at all. Perhaps the board means that the
premiums obtained on the new issue will be put to reserve
fund, which is intelligible enough. But that is certainly
not what it says.
* * * *
“E.W.K.”: Wouldn’t put any money into it.
It may pay good dividends for years, or it may snuff-out
very suddenly. It has always been a precarious business
in Australia, somehow. Also, there are one or two people
connected with it whose names don’t generally signify
good management. » * *
John Smith : The Citizens Life Assurance Co.
is the best on your list. The mere size of the accumu-
lated fund doesn’t matter so much. The question is
whether the fund is large enough to cover the liabilities.
* * * *
Junction North'made a gross profit of £11,858
for the 12 months, but the directors write-off £7699 for
wear and tear of plant; the net profit is thus £4159. To
make this trifle 42,360 tons of ore have been taken out of
the mine and treated. This ore contained about
564,6000 z. silver and 7836 tons lead. The product, how-
ever, was 7065 tons concentrates worth 29'8 oz. silver and
61 - 8 per cent, lead = 210,5330 z. silver and 4366 tons lead.
That is, 210,5330 z. silver was recovered in the concen-
trates, and 354,0670 z. was for the present lost; 4366 tons
lead was saved, and 3470 tons wasn’t. Nor is the metal in
the concentrates all saved ; as there is an average of nearly
7 per cent, zinc in it, a considerable quantity of both
silver and lead must be lost in the smelting. A number
of improvements in the mill are promised ; and clearly
the process can stand improvement. Yet it is not the
fault of the machinery so much as of the ore, which is
singularly refractor} 7 on account of garnet sandstone and
rhodonite. On the other hand, there is a recent improve-
ment in prospects underground, though, on account of
the position of the workings, it will not be possible to
extract the ore in large quantities economically. At the
end of the co.’s year (July 31), it had surplus liquid assets
over liabilities of £6763.
• • * *
Great Cobar Copper Co. : Royalty received for
half-year, over £29,000, of which i 24,000 has been paid in
divs. The tributors have now an option to purchase the
mine for £500,000, which may be exercised any time
before 15th June, 1902. If the sale is completed before
the end of the tribute the co. will pay the tributors com-
pensation for the surrender, to be fixed if necessary by
arbitration, but not to exceed a sum calculated at the
rate of £90,000 per annum for the unexpired term. It
now remains for the tributors to say how long they will
wait before going into possession as absolute owners
of the mine. Understood they now own over
three-fourths of it, so it is only a question
of paying for the remaining fourth. Nothing is said
as to position of the new tribute. Probably the
compensation the new tributors are to receive is set out
in the agreement. It was only a farce, anyhow—a move
by some directors to checkmate tributors gaining posses-
sion by purchase of shares. The sooner the mine is taken
over the better ’twill be for the other mines in the dis-
trict. At present the heavy royalty of 50 per cent, when
copper is over £5O per ton is a bar against local smelting
which would be removed by the purchase. Instead of
water-concentrating silicious copper ores at the Cobar-
Chesney mine, it would be an easy smelting proposition
to blend them with the ores containing an excess of iron.
The Chesney concentrates are being carted to the railway
station and trained to Lithgow. The tributors have
started a part of their electrolytic refining works at
Lithgow, which promise to be a great success. These
works will stop robbery on the part of smelting-houses in
London, and will only need the addition of a copper-wire
and plating plant to establish another great industry in
N.S.VV. The large amount of copper -wire used annually
in Australasia should be manufactured in the country
where the copper is produced, instead of the metal being
shipped to England and brought back again. A duty
under Federation would help the industry along.
* * * *
Howell’s Consolidated, N.S.W., locally known
as the Prince of Wales—July return, 3450 tons for 3150 z. 1
Worked at a loss of about £5OO for the month. Great
things were expected last year from this mine, which now
seems to have become tod low-grade to pay. Wines, not
mines, improve with age.
* * * *
Grassy Gully, N.S.W., is a newspaper-boomed
concern. Crushing starts in a week or two. Said to have
1500 tons good-grade ore at grass. Is this going to be
another N.S.W. disappointment? Writer sincerely-hopes
not, although, as a rule, the big-talked mine has little
results.
* * * *
New Eldorado, N.S.W. This concern has a
ridiculous reconstruction scheme so common to Cobar
management. Proposed to give four shares at ss. each
for every £1 share now issued, and to create 36,000 con-
tributing shares of ss. each, payable 2s. on application and
allotment, the balance in calls. These are to be offered
to shareholders—who aren’t likely to take them when
they can buy on the market original shares at less than
half the price. Eldorados are selling at 6s. and 7s.
One of these will mean four ss. shares, and is
it likely the others are going to be taken with
a liability of ss. each ? The proposition is absurd,
and the face that the directors mostly live at
Cobar is the on \ possible excuse for making it. The Co.
has an overdraft if £3BO and owes sundry creditors £333.
The mine is more- - ban an excellent prospect; four-fifths
of the Mt. Drys !e gold came from within 100 ft. of its
boundary. It ha 3 also a large surface formation which
could be'worked at a good profit in a big way, and it is
now working good gold from the Drysdale 275 ft. level. It
is a mine that deserves better management than that
from which this asinine reconstruction scheme emanates.
• * • *
Mount Drysdale should amalgamate with the
Eldorado, and now seems to be the time to fix an equitable
basis. Its principal gold is lying very near the boundary,
and anyone seeing the mines must immediately conclude
that they should be worked together and not apart. It is
better equipped than the Eldorado, which is not saying
much, for it wants a main shaft and a new winding ana
compressing plant. It has the most puzzling formation
that writer has seen ; but, like the Gt. Boulder of Wes-
tralia, the gold is becoming more concentrated with
depth. In the upper levels, when the rich shute disap-
peared, the mill was often kept going on 10 and 15dwt.
ore. In the bottom level the vein has become compara-
tively well defined, while the formation around it is of
little or no value. Lots of gold has been left in the upper
levels. The mine is well managed.
♦ * * *
Still another effort to work the reefs at Mt.
Browne goldfield, in the N.W. corner of N.S.W., has
petered out. Equity Judge Walker has appointed an
official liquidator of the Waratta co. Every co. that has
a look-in at this field makes the same fatal blunder—l-
starts with insufficient capital considering the expensive
ness of everything but sand and sorrow up that way.
* * * *
Editor Bulletin : Chillagoe Railway and Mines
Co. keeps on advertising for “axemen, rubble masons,
bridge carpenters, and laborers,” with the result that
numbers of men have given up their homes down south
and come up here, only to find they are on a wild-goose
chase. There is absolutely no work at Chillagoe ;I ve
just come from there, and i know ! —W.M.B.
* « * *
Mt. Garnet Freehold (N.Q.) Smelting expected
to start at the end of this month. 12,500 shares placed
in London at 475. 6d., and the purchaser has the option
till November on the further parcel of 12,500 at £3 a share.
Estimate of already-available -ore of all classes, 209,000
tons. The metallurgist says: “The hope that in the
course of opening up the mine, large bodies of silicious
material carrying payable quantities of silver or
copper will be found, which would render
the addition of barren flux to the furnace charge
unnecessary, has, so far, not been realised, and
it is consequently evident that such addition will at the
commencement of smelting operations have to he made.
The present high cost of carriage also precludes the use of
coke for smelting, and a contract has been let to supply
2000 tons of charcoal. Directors’ fees and other expenses
in Melbourne, £1215. London-office expenditure, £282.
Over £16,000 already spent on the smelting-plant, and
total expenditure to date has exceeded £BO,OOO. Once
more Tub Bulletin desires to remark that it takes a heap
of money to run a copper-mine.
Lyell Tharsis (Tas.) : Has been informed by the
Mt. Lyell Co. that: “In view of the purchase of the
South'Tharsis property the Directors do not wish for the
present to pursue negotiations for acquiring the Lyell
Tharsis mine.”
* k * *
Mt. Lyell.—The market in this stock has
anticipated that there will be no div. this quarter on
account of the purchase of the South Tharsis, and other
mine purchases which the 00. has probably in view ;
hence shares have gone back to where they were before
the purchase was made. If they were worth- £7 10s.
without the South Tharsis they certainly should be worth
considerably more with it. There is a marked difference
between using barren flux and silicious ore containing
from 2 to 3 per cent copper, the effect of which should be
seen in the Mt. Lyell returns as soon as the South Tharsis
body is operated on. Writer would not be astonished to
see Mt. Lyell shares goto £lO before the end of the year
if copper keeps over £7O.


OVERCOATS FOR THE WINTER SEASON
PALMERSTON OVERCOATS—
-42 Inches in Length.
Scotch Ribbed Tweed, 27s 6d
W. of England Venetian Cloth, Blue, Brown,
Fawn, and Grey, 47s 6d
Black Vicuna, Satin Facings and Fore-parts,
63s
CHESTERFIELD OVERCOATS—
Single-Breasted.
BLUE AND FAWN BEAVER CLOTH, 30s
BLUE AND FAWN MELTON CLOTH,
62s 6d
CLERICAL GREY SERGERETTES, 37s 6d,
42s
CLERICAL BLACK WORSTED, 39s 6d
Double-Breasted.
SEMI-ULSTER, in TWEED, 42s
D.B. IRISH FRIEZE ULSTER, 57s 6d
D.B. BLUE NAP, 50s
SCARBOROUGH OVERCOATS,
with DEEP CAPE,
Fan j cotch Tweeds, 30s, 355, 50s, 55s
New
Smart
Shapes
PADDOCK COATS-
-56 to 58 inches in Length.
PAWN VENETIAN CLOTH, 58s 6d, 65s
PAWN AND GREY RAINPROOF COVERT
COATING, 58s 6d, 65s
TALMA OVERCOATS—
THE LATEST STYLE, 54 to 56 inches in
Length.
Fawn Venetian Cloth, in Two Shades, 57s 6d.
COVERT COATS-
FAWN MELTON, 21s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d
Fawn Covert Coating, 27s 6d, 37s 6d, 47s 6d
Fawn Beaver, 45s
Fawn Beaver Cloth, Tweed Lined, 63s
OPERA AND INVERNESS
CAPES—
Black Serge, with Italian Cloth Facings, 40s
Black Vicuna, with Satin Pacings, 47s 6d, 63s
Carriage Paid on Parcels of the value of £2.
DAVID JONES & COMPANY
Orient Clothiers, George & Barrack Streets, SYDNEY.
IT’LL BE von of ——
HARRINGTON’S CAMERAS
Click!
“I’ve captured him.”
Dot’ll take me yet!
Every dom roo t nek
has von .
Note. —This particular rooinek is using
HARRINGTON’S
“Brilliant” j-plate
MAGAZINE CAMERA.
Two Brilliant View-finders. Magazine carrying
12 1-plates. Automatic Indicator. Time and
Instantaneous Shutter. Revolving Diaphragms.
Built of Mahogany. Covered with best Black
Grain Leather. Price, 30s.
cz
I
]’m taken at last.'
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.,
OS’ Branches or Agencies in every Colony. 66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Society
In its eagerness to supply news re the
Breelong blacks, Sydney E. News observes:
Governors were seen at Moonbi, near
Mullaley Well, Moonbi is only 80 miles from
M ullaley by shortest route, with Gunnedah, Car-
roll, Somerton and Tamworth in between. Geo-
graphy has no chance against Hysteria! Also,
Gunnedah is “in a state of frenzy,” ditto Bog-
gabri, Baan Baa, Mullaley, Coonabarabran, Mud-
gee, &c., and around _ Singleton (?) “all persons
carry arms.” And this in the province that sup-
plied. J. Bull with so"many “last hopes !!” In
V ellmgton district all the settlers lock or barri-
cade their doors every night, and sleep with an
axe or a gun, or both. Sheer frenzy, or rank
cowardice ?
* * * *
According to Sydney Evening News :
A tracker was following the tracks of the Governors.
Mr. D. Murphy heard loud talk and laughing, and called
to the tracker to stop, saying “ Here is some other party
coming.” Two horsemen appeared immediately on the
left hank of the creek, and when they got opposite Mr.
Murphy and party, who were about 80 yards distant, Mr.
Murphy called out, “Hallo, there is Jacky Governor 1”
The man riding a chestnut turned round, answering,
“Hallo there, what do you want?” Constable
called out, “That’s them —at them, boys.” The party
galloped through a deep sandy creek, about 60 yards
wide, but when they reached the opposite side they could
only see dust flying in Coonabarabran district.
Now, accepting “Mr. Dan Murphy’s” statement
as correct, it boils down thus: When four con-
stables, besides Mr. Murphy and a black tracker,
were all but ridden into by the fugitive Governors,
they exchanged remarks— not shots —and the
blacks escaped. At only 80yds. distance not a
cartridge was burned ! —and after the party had
gone 60yds. all they could see was dust. Why,
Carbine himself could not have gained more than
20yds. in the distance ; and, in any case, what
could the pursuers have wanted better than the
dust to follow ? Either that party should have
had the Governors, or the Governors had them.
Both parties mounted and armed—midday—Boyds.
apart, and six men to two 1 Monstrous !
* * * *
The pleasing news has just arrived that
that alleged offer of splendid wages for 3000
miners and other workmen to go to S’Africa was
al l a joke or a fraud. Somebody, it is explained,
asked one Rendle if lie thought 3000 men could be
got in Australia at £1 a day and a 12 months’
agreement, just as he might have asked whether
3000 men would take Rothschild’s billet if it was
vacant. So Rendle wrote inquiring—just as he
might have asked if they would all like to have
1000 shares in the Bank of N.S.W. or a pension of
£5OO a year. And they, not understanding this
kind of joke, took it for a serious offer. Rendle,
it now seems, doesn’t really know in any personal
sense if there is work for one Australian miner at
even 3s. 4d. a day; he was merely put-
ting a question. This way of putting a question
“oka peculiar. The natural inference is that
the Rand mine-owners and others want
to see the country rushed so that they can
get abundance of men at a starvation wage,
through sheer pressure of competition. The off-
hand inquiry if 3000 men can be got to take a 12
months’ job at £1 a day has already done some-
thing to start a movement Africa-wards which
will help to make labor cheap, yet the mine-
owners are committed to absolutely nothing. Per-
haps the shortest way to counteract this move
now would be for some unauthorised person to
send a letter to Capetown asking if there are 6000
men there who would like to come to Australia,
and get 640 acres of good land apiece free, and
£5OO each in cash to start farming with. That
also would commit nobody to anything.
* * * *
It looks as though the kindness of the
Lyne Govt, in supplying cheap reporters to the two
Sydney thick dailies may be thrown away after
all. Pekin has been taken, and the grandest thrill
of the expedition is apparently over. The great
opportunity for fine, hair-raising descriptive writ-
ing_ was in those dark days at Tientsin, when
Chinese artillery out-ranged and out-classed the
guns of the Europeans and Japs. The weeks of
fighting had filled all the swamps around the city
with unburied corpses, and the river washed them
up in hundreds, and the dogs tore and ate them in
the face of outraged humanity; A city with a
larger population than that of Sydney was on fire
in many places, and the Chinese slowly closed
in and mutilated the dead and tortured the
wounded. Things grew so bad at one time that
the Russian commander proposed that while 400
of his troops worked the guns and fought to a
finish in the crumbling Concession to cover the re-
treat, all the rest of the Allies, military and civilian,
should form a square and, with the women and
children in the centre, try to sneak or cut their
way through to Taku. It was to be a case of
deliberately sacrificing the 400 Muscovites to save
the rest, and if the idea had been adopted they
would have gone down in a struggle fit to
blaze through history beside that of Thermopylae.
But a young Britisher, Jimmy Watts, and three
Russians, whose names mostly ended in -ski,
dashed out of Tienstin on horseback, galloped
through the Chinese lines under heavy fire, raced
through whole villages where every man did
his best to pull them down, carried the news to
Taku in time, and the reinforcements fought their
way to Tienstin and saved the allied army. And
the local reporters got a close monopoly of it all.
* * * *
N.S.W. Public Service was wrought up
last week over the elections for next year’s coun-
cil. Most of the contests were keen, two seats
going on the casting vote of the returning officer,
while two candidates lost by three votes only.
The best known of the men elected are Tom
Garrett, of the Justice Department, the old-time
’Varsity cricketer, and J. W. Turner, of Fort-
street School fame. The general division fought
the clerical and professional divisions successfully
in _ two of the departments, three letter-sorters
being returned for the P. 0., while two of their
number, one the head-messenger, were successful
in the Chief Secretary’s Department.
* * * *
Editor Bulletin. —N.S.W. National Gal-
lery trustees (including Messrs. Lister and Col-
lingridge, two members of the committee of the
council of N.S.W. Art Society—this dear old,
THE FLY IN THE OINTMENT.
“ Oh, Tm SO fond of the country. Indeed, I often think I'd live in it if it weren't so far
from town.”
FEMININE GONGRATULATIONS.
SHE (somewhat elderly and about to be married): “We are going to conceal the fact that we are
just married and on our honeymoon .”
GIDDY YOUNG THING: “ That will be easy—everybody will think you are his mother."
familiar objection, you see, cuts both ways) have,
I see, bought for £2OO Mr. Joe Wolinski’s picture,
“ After Life’s Fitful Fever,” which some of the
newspapers say is “the best painting of the kind
ever done in Australia.” Well, the trustees gave
a good price, considering that they got Lambert’s
“Through the Blacksoil Plains” for £lO5 and
Longstaff’s “ Lady in Black ” for £5O; and that
they could easily have acquired Gordon-Coutts’
fine canvas “Too Late” for not more than £5O.
What intelligent amateur. would buy Wolinski’s
picture for £2OO if he could get Coutts’ at a simi-
lar figure ?— Brush.
* * » *
N S.W. Art Society’s annual smoke-night
was a well-attended function, and more or less
harmonious while the official proceedings lasted ;
at the end there was a slight divarshun in the
si)ape of a small scrap (outside.) A bit of the
Noble Art, in fact.
* * * A
There’s a note of true pathos in thosj
cablegrams of sympathy which Fitz Gibbon, the
Melb. Board of Works man, has lately been send-
ing to Her Gracious Majesty “on his own’’and
also on the alleged behalf of Melb. ratepayers.
Fitz is growing old, and the long-expected knight-
hood must come now or never. With Federation
close at hand he is making desperate bids for the
“ coveted distinction.” The sadness of his anxiety
lies in the fact that Her Gracious’s secretary for
loyal messages, or whatever name the gentleman
is known by, seems to have got Fitz’s measure.
The replies up to now have not been encouraging,
and the Melb. betting against a knighthood for
the poor old pleader is about 3to 1. As much as
4 to 1 has been laid at the Victorian Club.
What is the matter
with the gum on the
current N.S.W. postage-
stamps? Is the trouble
bad gum or not enough
gum ?
In his story of “ Mafeking after the
Siege,” Capt. Rev. J. H. G. Auld says—“ Why,
500 Australian Bushmen would have taken the place
in an afternoon.” Modest—soo Australians too
good for Baden-Powell and his 800 prize Britishers !
Mr. Auld also relates, with no apparent disap-
proval, that a Mafeking resident was making out
of shell-cases, “spittoons, with Kruger-coins in-
serted in the concave; the idea being that of
spitting on Kruger’s face.” How truly noble !
and Christian and clean and gentlemanly and
large-minded !
* * * *
The N.S. W. Artillery Band, as much State
property as is the Supreme Court Bench, is com-
pulsorily driven to tootle gratis at private
“society” functions. The man who refuses is
kicked out. To begin the killing of this scanda-
lous abuse, Member X should call for a return of
the times the band been requisitioned “by
authority ” this last 12 months, with the names of
the “hosts ” at whose functions it.has served, and
the gratuities, if any, tendered. Following that
should come a resolution of the House that the
band should be precluded from tootling at private
entertainments, or that it should only be allowed
to tootle at the current rates charged by private
bands. Cheap “ Society ” could then take its
choice.
* • ¥ *
Sleath, M.P. (in select committee), to
N.S.W. Commandant French : “ Take the ease of
King. Seeing that you rejected other candidates
for service in S’Africa, why did you accept
King ? ” French : “ Well, he belonged to an old
family.”
* * • *
The discussion on aboriginal names for
N.S.W. Federal constituencies has induced inquiry
as to the meaning of several native-named country
towns —and with disastrous results. Cootamundra,
for instance —the beloved Coota. of the residents —
is found to have such an abominable significance
that public mention of it would entail a month’s
gaol.
* * • »
Be the prematurely abated Sydney pla gue-
scare—what of the dilapidated and germ-infected
Chinese dens at Botany, and elsewhere (built
mostly of kerosene tins, scraps of galvanised
iron, dirt-boxes, and old bags) ? Also, bone and
refuse-gathering carts are allowed to pervade
George-street till nearly lupch time daily.
If England wants to end the Indian
famine she can do it easily enough, as far as mere
money is concerned. But her people don’t really
worry about the matter —a recent proposal to
grant five millions sterling to the famine fund and
chance its ultimate return was simply not listened
to by the Commons. Meanwhile, a gilded Aus-
tralian, who is prostrate on his stomach in search
of social distinction, spent £2OOO the other night in
London in roses to decorate the marble stairs of
his mansion.
* * * *
The unfortunate consumptives in Liverpool
(N.S.W.) Benevolent Asylum have petitioned the
authorities to be allowed occasionally to take a
stroll in the adjacent bush, instead of being, as at
present, cooped-up all the time in a restricted
area within nigh walls. What a grim satire it is
upon the boasted hygienic progress of the time
that sufferers from a disease requiring, perhaps,
more than any other, plenty of fresh air should be
practically imprisoned so as not only to have less
chance of individual improvement but also to
vitiate the common stock of oxygen, and thus
banefully re-act upon each other! A “ forcing-
house ” for phthisis !
BOHEMIANS.
(Written for the Illingworth Bohemian Night.)
Good friends ! By kind request I write
To welcome you, in gentle phrase,
To this, our friend’s, Bohemian Night—
Ye know not of Bohemian days.
These brave Bohemians, heart in hand,
March on their way with spirits free ;
They count not moments, sand by sand,
But spill the hour-glass royally.
And o’er the wall their caps they fling,
And with their caps their hearts withal ;
They paint and carve, and dance and sing—
Lured by a Vision Magical.
They follow, as the Monk the Bird
Did follow through the forest green,
The Song no other ears have heard,
The Sight no other eyes have seen.
In days of dearth, on paths of mire,
Through gleams of hope, and hopeless glooms,
They seek the phantom Flower of Fire
That by the door of Heaven blooms.
For ev’ry man his weird must dree
And they must theirs—and dare the Fates ;
While hunts the lean hound Poverty
The gaunt wolf Hunger through their gates.
Each one is born to play his part,
And each must play as best he can ;
These make the blood leap in the heart,
These keep the soul alive in man.
With wine, and jest, and laughter long
Their lives appear to pass, maybe—
But still beneath the river’s song
There sounds the sobbing of the sea.
VICTOR J. DALLT.


s
Jewellers and Silversmiths.
WEPPIMg PRESENTS
• • ~ • r;
Large Shipment of New Goods
in Sterling Silver Just Opened.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue, “^d
Hunter-St., Sydney
■■mi
m
.i
THE DEVIL SENDS COOKS.
The Judge’s head is crammed with lore,
His brain of knowledge is a store,
But oft in vain, for when he sums
His judgment from his stomach comes,
And baited sinners brought to book
Know why the devil sends the cook!
The Mayor of Forbes, N.S.W., was re-
cently requested by a number of residents to con-
vene a public meeting “ for the purpose of con-
sidering the increase of crime in our district,
and the measures to be taken for repression
thereof.” But a lot of the people*who didn’t sign
the requisition are saying not only that the move-
ment casts an entirely undeserved stigma upon
the district, but that some of the 15 signatories
themselves can’t afford to heave any great amount
of rocks.
m * * *
Westralian aborigines call Sunday, “the
whiteman’s big sleep.” A local Anglican Bishop
is the authority for this and if the blacks invented
the figure it is the nearest thing to respectable
thought that has been cited in their favor.
Sydney birth an-
nouncement : “Wife of
—: of twins (se-
cond time). Doing
well,” Rather !
* *
Many Sydney
houses abandoned on
thediscovery of a plague
case are still tenantless.
* *
At a recent funeral,
at Kiandra (N.S.W.),
the coffin was conveyed
on a toboggan drawn
by mourners on snow-
shoes.
* *
“The hand that
rocks the cradle rules
the world.” Also, the-
hand that works the
cable fools the world.
* *
Dear Bulletin.—
lie luck of drunks (8.,
21/7/’oo)._ Was recent-
ly standing in Oxford-
st., Sydney, when a
child running past was
severely bitten by a
dog, which also bit a
man who interfered.
Then up comes boozer
—“lt’s sorlrite, Ell
show yer how ter man-
age That .’ere dawg.”
He went up and grasp-
ed the canine by the
neck. Did he get bitten ?
My word, he did. !—Count R.
* • *r *
The Golden West ! Given in
evidence, in Perth t’other day, in
an inquest on the usual unwel-
come mfaiit, that the woman’s
husband, a laborer, averaged
l-’s. a week, and they had 10
children of their own to keep.
Knight Snowden, ex-Mayor of Melbourne,
is much troubled about the “ Supreme Court
Amendment Act ” now before Vic. Parliament.
Lawyers, he says, as a rule, are straighter than
the people who come to them, and it is not the
client, but the poor, much-suffering lawyer, who
needs protection. Which recalls the story of the
poor swagman, who explained to the indignant
B< c'i^iv er ky w hom he had been caught in the act
of kdlmg a sheep : “ Look here, I done it in self-
defence. I’ll allow no man’s sheep to bite me.”
Judging from the flatness
of the public receptions given to
the soldiers from S’Africa, it
would be appropriate for the
bands which accompany the
mournful street-processions es-
corting the invalids to invariably
play, “O what a difference in
the morning ! ”
* * *
The crew of the s.s. Perth
from G-eraldton to Fremantle,
W.A., describe a fight they saw
between a sea-serpent and a
whale. In these kodak days
there is no earthly reason why
anybody who tells such yarns
should be listened to without
corroborative snapshot evidence.
Why not make every captain
pass an examination in photo-
graphy and carry a camera to
photograph sea-serpents and
things, the Museum authorities
agreeing to buy good sea-ser-
pent photos, at a decent
price ?
* * *
When a certain church re-
cently advertised for an organist
the numerous applicants were
weeded-out to six, who had each
to play for four Sundays on
trial —so that when at the end
of six months one was appointed
the “screw” for thit period
had been saved ! Yet, from the
pulpit of that church have
been heard sermons against
sweating !
The indecent small-female mania took a
fresh turn in Melb. last week, when a _ woman
charged a middle-aged man with committing a
capital offence upon her infant daughter, aged 16
months ! After hearing her evidence the jury
stopped the case, completely exonerating accused.
Judge Holroyd expressed satisfaction with this
step, and said that had the case proceeded further
he would have been compelled to order an inquiry
into the woman’s mental condition. But lie alto-
gether omitted to order detention for examination,
or her prosecution for perjury—she was a Crown
witness. Also there was no suggestion that the
Crown should pay accused’s expenses and costs,
incurred in defending himself from a charge
which a Crown Defender, backed up, as he should
be, by the police, would have shown to be purely
fictitious at the police-court hearing.
The other day, at Prisoners’ Aid Society
meeting (Yic.), Burrowes, P.M., late Governor of
Melb. Gaol, remarked that once a man enters the
prison door his career as a respectable citizen is
forever closed. Same day Acting-Judge John-
stone sent a young girl (first offender) to prison,
with the observation that three months’ gaol
would probably prove her salvation. And so
experiment in social science trips airily along.
BARTNEBSHIP.
“Me and Slogger
made a hundred .”
“Garni You’ll be
going to England with
the team soon. How
many did you make?"
“O, Slogger made the hun-
dred. I did the bowling .”
The Narandera banquet to N.S.W. Works
Minister O’Sullivan cost £lO2. The tickets at 7s.
6d. totalled £44. Now there is a local row to
raise the difference.
* * ♦ *
The York Hotel, Adelaide—for years the
fashionable local hostelry—is in danger of extinc-
tion. A Melbourne drapery firm has bought the
site for £38,000, and, it is said, thinks of building
a big warehouse on it. A brewing firm holds a
lease of the York, which has nine years to run,
but as the establishment has not been over-profit-
able of late it may be glad to cry off for a reason-
able sum. There are many hotels in Adelaide
which might be wiped out with advantage, but the
passing of the old York will cause some regret.
* « * *
Writing re an Anglican recently
held in Sydney, S.M. Herald suppressed the
Christian and surnames of all the prelates present,
giving them instead their sectarian titular dis-
tinctions. Thus, the Bishop of Perth, the Bishop
of North Queensland, the Bishop of Tasmania,
and so on. Now, there is no such person as the
Bishop of Perth ; there is no such person as the
Bishop of Bathurst; there is no such person as the
Bishop of anywhere in Australia. There may be
a Bishop, but not the Bishop, and never will there
be.
* • » *
“F.H.” to The Bulletin :
Dear Bulletin —Kurikka and the Finns in Queensland,
are known to the writer as a sturdy, muscular crowd of
tireless workers. Yet for their hard labor and pleasant
manners they receive from the local “poler”—who has
his Is. an hour secure but little encouragement.
Kurikka is a man of education, apart from his knowledge
of English, and is strong-minded and enterprising. In
the navvies’ camp, 300 yards from this shanty, there are
a few Finns, one of whom has with him his wife and two
children (boy and girl), and the noble navvy—anxious
to instruct the children in the language—has begun by
teaching them to swear. I yesterday found the two
youngsters squatting upon a pile of horse-feed, and,
in many bad English words, black-guarding the stable-
boy. Most of the Finns are head and shoulders above the
navvies in physique and appearance, and can give them
points in any direction.
A somewhat historic estate
is being cut up for sale at North
Sydney. Brisbane House, the
old home of the Milson family, is
perhaps the most ancient build-
ing now on the Shore ; it is of
solid masonry, and was entirely
built by convict labor. The
founder of the Milson family
came to N.S.W. in the suite of
one of the early Governors, and
the Milson estate was a grant of
the old days. The headlands by
Lavender Bay are named after
old colonists to whom the adjoin-
ing lands were given, Milson’s
Point and Blue’s Point.
* *
Boiled down, the experi-
ences of one N.S.W. warrior
read as follows: —“Was an in-
cubus on the old folks through
inability to obtain employment.
Volunteered for Transvaal,
passed tests, shipped on trans-
port, trip just long enough to
teach officers what authoritative
swells th ey were. Disembarked,
sent to the front, tucker limited
and indifferent, clothing scarce
and shoddy, endless patrollings,
perpetual drillings, cleanliness
unknown, mother earth for bed,
stars for blankets. Enemy lo-
cated in position, waiting;
frontal attack ordered, usual
repulse, wounded. Ten hours to
field hospital, lightning treat-
ment, cross-cut saw, extraction
of bullets, plenty bandages, ditto
iodoform. Eight days spring-
less cart, rough tracks, water
cronk, tucker rough and tough,
wound undressed, sleep un-
known. Base - hospital eighth
day, wound open, swollen, dis-
charging, spirits low, fever high.
Eight weeks in bed, two weeks
convalescent, invalided home,
still shaky. More incubus old
folks.”
• •
“Tangata” tells a sad
story of the Church of England
in Maoriland :
Have often wondered which sect takes the bun for
“ begging.” All over M.L. are to be seen palatial build-
ings belonging to the “Woman in Red ” and the “ Plaided
Lassie,” but this may only mean that collections and
bazaar-funds are applied to legitimate and reasonable
purposes and not to paying fat stipends to surpliced
magnates of the “Canon Wealthy” stamp. For down-
right poverty and meanness there is not the slightest
doubt the “ dough ” in M.L. goes to the Anglican Church.
For many years I warbled responses, anthems, and
things in a “ quite English” toney M.L. church, and had
a desperate struggle to get the few shillings I was en-
titled to weekly as paid lay-clerk, whilst the plate, which
regularly reached us after the congregation had allegedly
contributed, was stuck under our noses in full view
of the “ House ” whilst singing offertory sentences
such as “ The Lord loveth a cheerful giver,” “ Lay
not up,” &c. Result, a wild tussle with a surplice
to track the weekly 3d. to its lair, and much mental
blasphemy at an array of “tray-bits” already in the
plate, not enough, even, to pan-out my “ screw.” Things
got so bad that Dunedin’s aristocratic Bishop had to go
'Ome on a cadging-trip, despite which the local pro-
Cathedral, established about 30 years, is still gasping out
a mortgaged existence. A well-known and real-“ white ”
minister, who recently took charge of a city Anglican
church at a yearly stipend of £5O, found that he was ex-
pected to pay £52 per year for rent of the parsonage !
Nothing daunted, the good man mortgaged his life-
insurance policy to build a Sunday-school! The mort-
gage and the school still exist—and the church is doing
well. 8
* * * *
Certain proposals for the cleaning up and
purifying of small and smellful Hobart came before
Tas. Assembly t’other day, and it almost looked as
if something might be done. But before cleaning
Hobart it was necessary to admit that Hobart was
dirty, and the insinuation that it was dirty was
thrown back by the Hobart members as a gross
outrage. Therefore nothing happened.
* * » *
It will be interesting to see who’ll succeed
Gov. Gormanston in Tasmania. The Lewis Govt,
has brought in a bill to fix the salary at £3OOO. Of
course His Ex. will have quarters with light and
fuel, but £3OOO won’t go far when Tas. society has
to be fed. The effect of the reduced salary (to fit
in with Federation) will be to make Tasmania a
breaking-in place for Governors, like the Leeward
and Windward Islands. Before he left Tasmania
Lord Gormanston made it known that during the
seven years he held office he spent £6OO a Jiear
more than he got from the island, and it was lately
stated in the Assemby by Parspn Woolnough that
Gov. Robert Hamilton “ lost by his billet.” One
minister advised Private Secretary Rawlinson to
pply for the Tas. Governorship now that ho had
the work at his “fingers’ ends”; and, joking
apart, it’s such a man as Rawlinson that Rasp-
berry Land may expect when the screw is pulled
down, unless Tasmania strikes for a local man to
fill the billet—as it should do, and as Canada
does. “Big” men won’t play second fiddle to
the Gov. General. The Tas. Govt., however,
wants to compel the next Governor to spend some
money in the “ provinces.” £5OO is to be allowed
him for “travelling expenses” in Tasmania.
♦ * » .
It was probably apropos of all the sickly
business which accompanied the departure from
Hobart of Gov. Gormanston that Fowler, member
for Launceston, when it was said ip the Assembly
that there ought to be a Govt. House in the
“Northern Capital,” declared that he’d be no
party to voting money for “the few people who
called themselves society and contributed little or
nothing to the revenue.”
* * * *
Despite the fact that Lieut.-Col. Burns
published his refusal to accept the resignations of
Messrs. See and Lyne, juniors, whom he had
appointed lieutenants in N.S.W. Lancers, the
young men wisely insisted on withdrawing.
Young See bravely entered the ranks of the regi-
ment again, Lyne leaving the whole concern in
great disgust. As Quartermaster-Sergt. M‘Mahon
receives a commission in the regiment, the ulti-
mate result is a triumph for the troopers. The
men as much resented their favorite non-com.
being passed over as they objected to two inex-
perienced boys, simply because they were the sons
of Ministers of the Crown, being placed over
them. While the fact of a body of troopers so
easily setting at nought the wishes of their
superiors may be subversive of discipline in volun-
teer ranks, the complete climb-down of so many
persons who are high and mighty in the land jus-
tifies the men in their action.
• * * •
“ Gunner ” to The Bulletin :
“ Khaki” (B. 18/8/’00) seems to imply that N.S.W. “A”
Battery was efficient (or not inefficient) in Oct., ’99, and
was only shelved because local 001. “ Alphabet ” Smith
made an ass of himself. Now, at date mentioned, “A ”
HE KNEW THEM.
IRATE YOUNG HUSBAND: “Look here, sir, my wife tells me
that in addition to supplying inferior goods you are
insolent to her.”
GROCER: “Lor ', sir, don't get excited. When you've had my
experience you won't mind what wimmin says about you.”
Battery had 6 guns, 80 men, and 30 horses, and according
to a statement by Gen. French commented on in The
Bulletin, the 30 horses, though less than one-fourth of
the proper complement, didn’t get work enough to keep
them in health. I saw some of the battery out when the
Lancers were leaving for England, and it could then only
horse two guns and two luggage-waggons. Truly an
“ efficient ” battery ! And, as for Col. Smith’s rank, he
didn’t know much if he thought his Australian title
would stand good in S’Africa. He certainly wouldn’t
have had a whole “ division ” (not “ brigade ’’-—there are
no brigades of artillery) if a senior-major was present.
Trust them for knowing all about that !
• * * *
In a Sydney hairdresser’s shop recently a
young man from the country, who was getting
shaved, was complimented by the barber upon his
fine set of teeth, and induced to let them undergo
a small scraping process, which he took to be, he
deposed, “an act of either charity or friendship.”
But when—to quote the song—
He handed them over a sovereign bright,
And they said there was not any change—
Although they assured him ’twas “ perfectly right”
He thought it remarkably strange !
Defendant produced a price-card, which he said
had been hanging in the shop at the time, arid
which bore amongst its items—“ Teeth, £1 Is”—
but the magistrate expressed his opinion of the
cheerful little transaction by promptly finine
defendant £5 —“or a month.”
♦ * * *
A leading M.L. paper editorially prints
this:—
What could be more fitting than to make of Pekin itself
a monument, to wipe this infamous capital from among
the cities of the world, to leave nothing living in it nor
one stone upon another ?
As the paper in question is owned by two eminent
Methodists, whose chief recreation is local-preach-
ing, and edited by a leading Congregationalist, it
may fairly be taken as representing up-to-date
Christianity. The proposed slaughter of more
than a million Chinkies in one act shows that
there is nothing mean or retail about their rever-
ences’ ideas. As an example of Christian benefi-
cence, the article would be of great value to future
missionaries—
J. H. Gossip, of Wagga Express, is the
first country journalist to introduce the linotype
to the backblocks.
“ Eye for eye, and tooth for tooth,”
Ran the stern old Hebrew law ;
But the Christian’s milder creed
For a tooth exacts a jaw.


“He’s from the Country.”
Such is the expression intended to convey the
idea that he is easily deceived.
MARK FOY’S success is a Town Trade.
The Keenest Judges in Sydney haunt FOY’S.
If you asked City Friends to get your wants,
they would surely go to FOY’S.
For the fun of the thing /
-J WrUeto MARK FOy, SYDNEY.
Bame prices and attention as if you bought amongst the dally crowds at the counters.
Drapers Everywhere.
6L886 TEAS have N 0
Atcherley & Dawson Limited, 257 George-st., Sydney.
A WOMAN'S LETTER.
Sydney, August 28, 1900.
My Dear Myee.—
A Supper that brought a lot of people to-
gether was Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Birthday Party,
at “Ithaca,” Elizabeth Bay, last Sunday night.
As far as I know, it isn’t a secret that J.C. has
just celebrated fifty-five. He doesn’t look it.
The supper was an informal, merry gathering.
Around the long tables sat —well, let me think.
It is hard to know where to begin. The hostess
led off a long array of black frocking. Billie Barlow
—Mrs. Stuart —was there next to Wallace Brown-
low, looking charming in black, embroidered
in jet over pale grey. Her warm hair and bright,
brown eyes were the only touches of color. Mrs.
Bland Holt was also in jetted black, with nastur-
tiums in her low-dressed hair. Miss Winston -
Weir wore more black. In off-stage dress she is
one of the smartest women you could see, with a
well-coiffed hair, and a particularly “drawing-
room” manner. Dolly Vane, who sat beside
Charles Arnold and didn’t talk much, wore lilies
of the valley in her hair and a high-necked
black gremidine frock. Dolly is still recruiting
at Coogee. Her marriage comes off next week,
I believe. Mrs. Bernard Espinasse and Mabelle
Darley were both in blue. Pretty Cecil Engle-
hart (whose portrait, I am told, is being painted by
a very deft craftsman) wore a tucked cream silk,
with elbow-sleeves and a chiffon fichu. The
party —it was wholly theatrical, with the excep-
tion of this scribe, who happened to drop in
—included Carrie Moore, Fyvie Dench, Harry
and Noni Rickards, “Goody” and Mrs. Goody,
the Carons (Madame in white brocade, with
red-velvet shoulder-straps), Mr. and Mrs. Lauri,
“Charlie” Kenningham and “Pat” Bathurst,
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Arnold, and, at inter-
vals, two small girls, Marjorie (in white and
blue ribbons) and a little Miss “Goody.” “I
came early,” remarked the latter confidentially to
me ; “I was here at nine thith morning.”
Mr. Williamson’s health was proposed by Mr.
Henry Bracy. Replying, “ The Governor ” re-
marked that he sometimes felt like giving up work
now, and retiring into ” He didn’t say where
he thought of retiring into —with one voice the
company interpolated breathlessly “Suss/”
Which, being interpreted, means “ What will
become of us—of us—of us ? ”
And after that pathetic outburst there really
was nothing for J.C.W. but to assure everybody
that he intended to continue, for many a day yet,
his just methods of looking after “Suss,” him-
self included.
The Art Society opened its 21st. Annual
Exhibition last Saturday. Yes, twenty-first!
Things are getting on. Art is no longer the pale,
freen, callow thing it used to be —Art in Sydney
mean. It is growing up steadily, stealthily.
Soon it will be able to run. Already some of it
has walked away from us, and started feeling its
way round the old world with the aid of chairs and
tables as it were. Saturday morning’s unofficial
opening brought in a fair sprinkle of picture-
lovers, who took the canvases slowly, without a
crowd. The Mayoress was present with Miss
Harris. In the rooms I saw also Lady Innes,
Mrs. Gadsden, and a good many originals of the
wall-decorations. On Monday His Ex. came
along and purchased two little water colors,
“Transport Moravian” by J. H. Young and
“Sydney Harbor” by Lister-Lister.
His Ex.’s purchases are both dealing with
Sydney Harbor. Somebody said he wanted them
to remind him of his arrival in Sydney. I think
it might be of his leaving ditto.
Turning to the pictures. In the oil room there
are some very big canvases. One that jumps at
you as you enter is Mr. Coffey’s “The Curse of
Gold,” rather an original subject for an artist.
Not many of’em can look at it that way. But
Mr. Coffey’s pictures are all over the rooms, and
the red ticket —sold—flares from more than one of
his frames. His “Under the Ti-Trees” was
bought by the Gallery. It’s a strong and vivid
landscape, rich with green and yellow coloring
and luscious water. I believe the correct thing is
to stand in front of it and say, “This isn’t like
Coffey ! ” It is a charming picture now, and it
will improve with age.
But there ! Where would we be at an Art
Show without our little ready-made phrases ?
There are times when one’s feelings are too deep
for words. Then there are times when one has to
say something; when the occasion demands ex-
pression. And then come the good old hoary
patriarchs, that never failed anybody yet. A few
of them are (including the one above-mentioned),
“This is so restful”; “It reminds me of some-
thingand our old friend, “ I-don’t-know-any-
thing-about-pictures—but——
Signor Nerli’s “ Cosette” has many admirers.
It takes a full-length view of a rather mature girl,
with golden hair, and a beaver-colored frock lifted
to show a red lining. She wears a red flowered
toque with white wings. I mention this picture
because, while I was looking at it, it came home
to me forcibly that a man takes an entirely dif-
ferent view from a woman of the beauty of a woman’s
hair. An artist likes his woman’s hair loose,
rough, underdone. Crimps and brillantine, and
smartened-up lines, and a lot of hair-pins, and a
fringe-net, are not for him. And this is true, not
of artists only, but of the male sex in general. It
was cleverly put by a writer lately who said,
“ Coif your hair for a woman, and frill your petti-
coats for a man.” No man was ever caught by a
fringe-net yet.
In the catalogue I saw a “French Hat,” by
Tom Roberts, for ten guineas. But no; he isn’t
imitating Worth. It is a clever and fetching
study of a head as well as a hat, and was quickly
bought. The Art Gallery salved many sores
by purchasing Wolinski’s scholarship picture,
“ After Life’s Fitful Fever.” You will be glad to
hear that the artist gets £2OO for it. Mr. Daplyn’s
retiring little landscape and Miss Cusack’s jar of
Xmas bush and wild flowers have also been bought
by the Gallery. Mr. Moore-Jones shows “ The
Awakening Soul of Adam,” in oils, amongst his
•other exhibits. I understand that it took this
Adam five years to get into Paradise.
Women are remarkably well represented. Mrs.
Stoddart leads with two beautiful miniatures. I
like her “Mrs. Toohey” better of the two. The
"white hair, white lace frock, and the touch of vio-
lets in the corsage are very effective, and the like-
ness is most faithful. The “ Lady Mary Lygon ”
is inclined to stare. But for fineness and delicacy
it would be hard to beat these portraits. And
then there are innumerable exhibits from the
Misses Cusack, Sophie Steffanoni, Alison Vivian,
Margaret Flockton, Mrs. Tom Marshall, Ethel
Stephens (who is very poorly represented), Mrs.
Halligan, Alice Norton, while Miss Louise Hunt
and Miss Gether put in some clever wood-carving.
But oh ! I do wish the observations at the end
of the catalogue could be deemed unnecessary.
When you read, “Her shapely head is covered
with golden curls, while the pensive attitude has
•been depicted in an equally artistic manner,” you
ponder.
And the following sort of thing is what one
wants to find out for one’s self: “ This artist has
given us many pictures of still water, tall reeds,
and waving rushes, but in the one here presented
he has excelled himself. From the sturdy honey-
suckle tree on the left to the tall rushes on the
right all has been carefully studied from Nature,
and the artist must be congratulated on the re-
sult.” That just leaves me room to say that, in
my humble opinion, the Art Society quite excels
itself at this year’s Exhibition.
The Society of Artists’ dance came off last Fri
day, at Needs’ Room. It was a bright, busy little
dance, with a supper that lasted. But Artists were
not very plentiful. I could only count seven. And
one hadn’t learnt dancing, and one was engaged,
and one was married, and only one answered to
the requirements of a dancing man. The remaining
three were women—Mrs. Pauli, the energetic sec-
retary, in grey brocade brightened with pink roses,
Miss Haidee De Lissa in turquoise blue glace with
a lace overdress and violets in her hair, and Miss
Thea Proctor in white. Two sisters with fair,
much-bunched-out hair spun round like spinning
aureoles, while two black-haired sisters waltzed
with the languorous movements of black-haired
beauties.
By the way, our Art Societies have amalgam-
ated. That is to say, both exhibited in one and
the same room last week. The pictures were given
to help the Nelson Illingworth Fund. Afternoon
tea, and music by Elsie Stanley Hall and others,
made up a cheerful invitation crush.
The many friends of Mr. George Lambert will
be interested to hear- that the young artist will not
leave Sydney a bachelor. He starts for London this
next month on his Travelling Scholarship. Before
he goes, his marriage with Miss Amy Abseil will
take place, and his bride will go along with him.
Miss Abseil is known in Sydney as a story-writer;
perhaps she is better known as the original of cer-
tain charming pictures from Mr. Lambert’s brush.
Saturday last saw the departure for Berlin of
Miss M. F. Wright, one of our few penwoinen
who has succeeded in getting a connection with
foreign magazines. Miss Wright intends to study
the Charity System in Berlin, and also discover
whether the domestic Frau is the household slavey
that indignant writers have made out.
The death of Dr. Dagmar Berne, alas, was not
unexpected. This clever, kindly woman, well-
loved by all who came in contact with her, con-
tracted the seeds of consumption years ago while
studying medicine at London Hospital. She was
the first woman to enter a medical course at
Sydney University. Then she went off and fol-
lowed up her course at Dublin, London and
Edinburgh Universities.
“ What Happened to Jones” was what Sydney
had been wanting to know for a long time. A
crowded, dressy house filled the gay little Palace
Theatre on Saturday night. But what a flower-
less, though otherwise warm, reception ! I didn’t
see one green leaf from beginning to end, although
the co. included more than one Sydneyite return-
ing home after months of absence.
For a play that gets so laughed at the frocking
is “ all there ” ! Not paralysing, you know, but
careful and pretty. Miss Agnes Knights’ best
gown is black, embroidered in big tiger-lilies;
Miss Dot Frederic looks fluffy and smart in
white ; Miss Inez Bensusan wears a brocade with
a tucked lace bodice and a vivid green waisting;
Miss Hope Mayne looks her best in a pink
jewelled net, with long ruffed chiffon sleeves, and
a rose in her hair. Opinions differed about
another lady in the co. Is it a man? Is it a
woman? The likeness to Johnny Sheridan’s
Widow O’Brien sets the house wondering if Miss
Sallie Booth is an actual “she”—as indeed
she is.
A concert that I was unfortunately unable to
listen to last week was Miss Ada Parr’s at the
Centenary Hall. Lady Mary Lygon and party
were there, and a crowded house welcomed the
new pianiste, brought out by her teacher, the
indefatigable “ Heather” Fitz-Stubbs. Miss Parr,
by the way, is an A.M.A., Senior Honour Gold
Medallist.
I had a chat with Mr. Steffani lately. He and
Madame have resumed their flat in town after two
years’ absence in Europe. Glad to get back ?
The climate—the climate! And Steffani dwells
eloquently on how French people endure mud,
submit to mud, revel in mud ; how Paris takes no
notice of rain, but just goes on as calmly, and more
coolly than an Australian in his impossible—to
Paris—summer. Florence Schmidt will take
three years to get acclimatised, says Steffani.
Her Bananaland blood cools slowly, and her throat
husks on the slightest provocation.
That pretty sight, the Children’s Plain and
Fancy Dress Ball, comes off at the Town Hall next
Thursday at 7.30. Dancing—according to the
card—begins at 10 o’clock. I presume that is for
adults, who will be heartily welcomed on the pay-
ment of 7s. 6d. The proceeds to go to the Civil
Ambulance.
The other charity hop—the Masked Ball —looks
like a brilliant success to be. Apropos, a quaint
story tells how Lady Blank was going to represent
X., the well-known vendor of What-d’ye-call-it.
Everything was arranged. Lady Blank was to
receive—for the hospital—£so for her advt. Then
X. happened to mention the matter to his mother,
who happened to be a Quakeress. What she said,
and how she said it, is a secret. But she so
worked on her son’s feelings that he decided he
couldn’t have his firm represented on a woman's
back. Arrangements were abruptly shattered.
I have two deaths to report which will deeply
grieve many people—those of Mrs. Kelso King
and Dr. Alfred Shewen. The amiable lady
named, who had long been an invalid, passed
away suddenly and unexpectedly on board the
P. & O. mail-steamer on tier way to Melbourne,
and Dr. Shewen died in England, whither he had
retired for his health’s sake. When first he set-
tled in Sydney, many years ago, he was the medical
associate of tiiat good surgeon and charming man-
of-the-world, the late Dr. Fortescue. For 12
years he was one of the honoraries at the Alfred
Hospital. And so vanishes from earth the price-
less accumulated medical experience of one of our
keenest physicians.
Miss Annie Duncan, N.S.W. Inspector of Fac-
tories, is not an Englishwoman, as constantly
stated. She held the office of Inspector of Work-
shops and Laundries in London for some years,
but was born in Adelaide. Her father, Handyside
Duncan, was Health Officer there.
Sydney’s Potts Point isn’t all luxury. Some of
it is splendid penury. At a certain house they’ll
tell you the story of a neighbor’s Austral-Irish
servant—the true blend for impudence—who,
having received “warning,” was ordered to bring
in a dish of food that had seen service before.
There was a guest present, and instead of bearing
the dish right into the room, the girl put it on the
floor outside the dining-room door, and said
loudly : “Faith, ye’ve been up so often already
that you ought to be able to go the rest of the way
by yerself! ”
In new music there is still much of the Pyetrio-
tic. “Sons of Victoria,” by Angelo Maschereni,
has a vivid rythm in its refrain. Gould and
Co. also send “Farewell to Summer,” by Noel
Johnson, doleful, and palely imitative of Tosti’s
“ Good-bye.” From Paling and Co. come “ The
Nigger’s Lullaby,” a bright and tuneful coon-song
by Ettie Lewin; and “The Overlander,” a bush
ballad by Hugh and Mary Macdonald. These are
local musings, and I can recommend them both.
A burst of music-hall ditties comes via Paling.
“Nancy is my Fancy,” “Belinda,” with a very
taking air, “The Stay-at-Home Tourist,” and
“ The Lads in Navy Blue.” They are all lively
examples of the class of song that coins money
nowadays. There isn’t any definite distinction
between any two airs, but the pleasingness lies in
the fact that the public always feels it is getting
something it knows, and originality would only
bore and disturb the public’s equanimity.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent:—
“Mrs. Edith Wilkie, petitioner in the sensa-
tional Melbourne divorce suit, is a plump and
golden-haired matron below middle-height, and
whose fascinations are of figure rather than face.
Though nearly all her life has been passed amid
rough surroundings, she speaks with the language
and intonation of the lady born and bred, and is a
splendid advertisement for the society tutoress
who taught her the — vide evidence—“etiquette of
social life” for 3s. an hour. Also Mrs. W. is
quite able to look after herself. Without bravado
or mock modesty she described many delicate de-
tails of her married life to that awful man, Purves,
and even scored off that individual, leaving the
box with an air of calm triumph after three days’
constant testifying. Purves described his client,
Adam Wilkie, the respondent, as a navvy who
had made money, and the description fits him.
Wilkie is simply a well-dressed edition of
any of a thousand labourers to be picked off any
contract. He shows no sign of the constant
wallowing in alcohol charged against him, and
wears his 48 years very lightly. Though giving
no indication of particular shrewdness, Wilkie is
one of a trio of brothers who made heaps of money
out of railway-contracting on an original plan.
The Coolgardie line was the last and most success-
ful venture of all. In the height of the gold-boom
they accepted the contract for £50,000 less than
cost, reserving the right to run the traffic until the
completion of the job. Rushing the rails down
with all speed they had a monopoly of the carriage
to the goldfields, charged what they liked, built
the permanent line by night, and netted so much
that Adam Wilkie took £60,000 as his share.
£23,000 of this he gave to his wife, and an equity-
suit will follow the present divorce to decide its
ownership. Both fortunes, however, are being
vigorously gnawed by the lawyers.
“Big and popular Jim Moloney, M.P., aider-
man of Melbourne, and solicitor, has just amazed
his friends by quietly getting married. He has
wed his little office type-writer. Propinquity,
propinquity ! Jim stands over 6ft.; new Mrs.
Jim is measured by inches. Not many people
know of the wedding even now. It was done
quietly—just like serving a subpoena. Dr. Pat
Moloney, his brother, is now living in Paris, and
has definitely abandoned Melbourne practice.
“And this is what has happened to big, easy-
going, dreamy Jim of many ambitions, after all
his diatribes against Holy Matrimony. The only
intimation James gave his friends of his nuptials
was to say, ‘ Alas ! my brother, it is not good for
man to live alone.’
“Dapper little surgeon T. N. Fitzgerald was
banquetted by his brother sawbones, in Melbourne
t’other day, on his return from S’Africa, where he
has been acting as a consulting surgeon. His
speech on the occasion is described by those who
heard it as a queer bit o.f quaint, unprepared
humor. The first man he met in Natal, after he
had poured himself into a khaki suit, was Brassey,
dressed up ‘ regardless ’ for a call on the Governor.
Old Tom insisted on taking Surgeon Tom along
with him. ‘ But I’ve got no clothes but these,
said Fitz. ‘ Never mind—come on ! ’ said Brassey.
Fitz. went, feeling very uncomfortable among a
crowd of well-dressed folk from England ; but he
avers that, before the day was through, the ‘ little
man from Australia ’ was first favorite. Which is
probably true. By the way, when Lady Hopetoun
comes along he will be able to see how a neat job
of his holds out. He patched up the smart
Countess’s nose after her accident in Melbourne,
and made it as pretty to look at and as good to
smell with as it was before.
“ Marshall-Hall’s accusers are ‘ fit to be tied ’
when asked for proofs (outside the ‘ Hymns ’) of
their bugbear’s alleged devilishness, and seem as if
they’d rather see him laid in his grave than shriven
of his supposed guilt. Some of the stone-throwers
are simple outsiders, misled by cock-and-bull
stories. Scribe’s charwoman pins her faith to a
baseless slander impugning the validity of the cul-
prit’s matrimonial arrangements, while the green-
grocer believes firmly that the ex-Director
presented the daughters of a popular parson with
an ‘ atheistical book ’ —a fallacy on the face of it,
seeing that their reverend pa plumps publicly for
the Prof. At present the petition in Marshall-
Hall’s favor annexes influential names galore, for
Mac-bigot and co. have blundered badly and
created a reaction in their quarry’s favor. They
sent round to all Masters of Arts and sich a com-
pilation of the very worst lines they could spot in
that absurd hymnal. So far from being shocked,
the recipients, surprised to find the written-up
plague-spots so harmless, now pooh-pooh the
Marshall-Hall drivel as ‘mere coarse tommy-rot.’
The compilers were twice as impressive while they
contented themselves with hinting darkly at the
wild-beastliness of the sinner and his works. Now
they have trotted out their bears— i.e., the crea-
tures of the music-man’s literary fancy, and
they’re only small bears, after all, not woman-
snatching satyrs or worse.
“One hears that the childless ‘leviathan,’ Alf
Josephs, just dead at ’Ome, has left a ‘bittie’ to
his nephevv and nieces, young Lincoln and his
sisters, children of the senior partner in the
Lincoln-Stuart firm. Lincoln, jun., dramatised
Marie Corelli’s ‘ Vendetta,’ lately played in
Sydney by Dampier under the name of the
‘ Power of Wealth.’ His sisters are dressy, chatty
members of the Austral Salon. One of them is
the wife of young Dr. Hewlett.
“Lord Richard hints to his farewelling friends
that Adelaide Govt. House will not be his abiding-
place for long, as he hopes to return to ‘ dear old
Melbourne, don’t-fou-know,’ very soon. In what
capacity ?
“ The Melbourne Children’s Hospital Fund is
accountable for two books (one of them not yet
out) that should take the fancy of all Right-
Thinking Persons who have a silver lining to their
pockets. Mr. Byron Moore, our white-hatted
master of the Cup ceremonies, and ‘ energetic sec.
of the V.R.C.,’ as the papers call him every year
when the warm weather begins to set in, is the
author of a happy little booklet published for the
benefit of the fund. Mr. Moore tells the story of
the stories in a prologue. A few years ago he was
living by himself in town, suffering from bank
failures and general gloom. His family were away
at Mount Martha—the place where visitors are
guaranteed to gain 31b. of flesh between Saturday
and Monday—and so, to soothe his mind and
make things look pleasant, he wrote these very
original fairy yarns to his children. And the
youngsters felt all the better for them, no doubt.
They are jolly tarradiddles about imp's and fairies,
and impets and fays, told with nice touches of
literary heart and humor, the sort of tales that a
grown-up can laugh at whilst reading them aloud
to the entranced Tom and Sissie. Has any other
bank-smashed city man ever done anything half
so good for a recreation, I wonder ? The book
includes some clever illustrations and lovely ad-
vertisements, and the Sands and Macdougall
printing is a work of art. Mr. Byron Moore has
given 2000 copies to the Children’s Hospital Fund.
The price is half-a-crown now, but they will be
worth more than that one day as readable
souvenirs of an interesting Melbourne identity
and a historical crisis. Don’t you forget it. The
title is ‘ How the Cruel Imp became a Good
Fairy.’ The other hospital volume, ‘Childhood
in Bud and Blossom,’ is being together by Mr.
Josh Lake, and will go as high as three half-
crowns for an edition de luxe. The list of con-
tributors looks promising for business—Ada
Cambridge, Mary Gaunt, ‘Banjo’ Paterson, J.
B. O’Hara, Donald Macdonald, and others.
Among the others is Major-General Baden
Powell, the delightful fellow and magnificent
advertiser who worried lots of Boers into their
graves. Also, the pictures are to be worthy of
their athletic selector, Josh.
“ Actor Kingston is hopelessly in love with his
charming little wife, who is to make music in Syd-
ney next month. The girls who have sought an
intro, to the actor of the eye-brows are sorry they
spoke—so to speak—for the stage-lover wearies
them with extravagant praise of his dainty and
vivacious partner. A little while ago the turtle-
doves tried to part, and Mrs. Kingston got as far
as Adelaide on her way to England. There she dis-
embarked, threw up her engagement (nothing
else), and rushed back to hubby’s arms.
(Continued on page 31.)


ROWLANDS
KALYDOR
For tk® Skin.
Removes Freckles, Tan, Sun-
burn, Redness, Roughness, Heals
and Cures Irritation, Insect
Stings, Cutaneous Eruptions,
produces Soft, Fair Skin and a
Lovely Delicate Complexion
Most cooling a»nd soothing in hot
climates. Warranted harmless.
ROWLAND’S
ESSENCE OF TYRE.
The most perfect Hair Dye.
Produces a permanent brown or
which cannot be removed.
Ask for Rowland s articles, of
Hatton Garden, London. Sold
by Stores and Chemists.
Citizens [ifejjssurance Company limited.
Premier Industrial-Ordinary Office of Greater Britain.
Bxiati PolicyholdLera exceed. 206,000.
IMMEDIATE SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS.
Large Reserves.
Moore and Castlereagh Streets,
Sydney.
Annual Bonuses.
JOHN FARRELL,
Resident Secretary,
HATS. HATS,
Mountcastle & Guard’s
Patent Grease-Proof Hats will Revolutionise the
trade. All the newest shapes htted with this
valuable invention.
Write for n
Catalogue to **■
Qckic.v
Maun toastie, & Sons,
SrnuET, BRISBANE.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Jimmy Governor is 23 years of age, Joe
19.
“Times change! ’ The suite of offices
formerly occupied by Crick and Meagher are now
used as chambers by G. H. Reid, Q.C.
Ex - Speaker Abbott’s Parliamentary
phrase : “My duty to my Queen, my God, and
my country.” God second, country last.
Mr. J. C. White, of Bathurst Free Press,
entered his 88th year recently. He is a colonist
of over 60 years, and in the late thirties built the
first Wesleyan chapel in South Australia.
Before N.S.W. Justice Cohen. Counsel,
a prominent M.P., addressing jury : “My honor-
able friend has told you—l beg his pardon—my
learned friend. But he may be honorable, too —
some day.”
Editor Sowden, of S.A. Register, is
believed to cherish Federal Parliamentary am-
bitions, but, like the much-boomed Bonython, of
the Advertiser, fears that defeat would be a bad
advt. for his paper.
Some newspapers are claiming the wife of
Boer General Botha as a grand daughter of Robert
Emmett. Possible, of course, .but not probable,
in view of the fact that Emmett was but 23 (and
unmarried) when he was hanged.
It is stated that the disease from which
John Mackenzie, until lately Maoriland’s Minister
for Lands, is suffering, is internal cancer, located
in the same region as the malignant growth which
killed the great M.L. Liberal pioneer, John
Ballance.
It is stated that Jimmy Governor, the
Breelong slayer, is the illegitimate son of a man
whose family was largely connected with Aus-
tralian coal-interests, and one of whose illegiti-
mate descendants, after inheriting a vast fortune,
recently died insane.
A certain notorious District Court Judge
laughs when members bait him in Parliament.
He openly asserts that half “ the low fellows ”
should be in gaol. As for dismissal, he threatens
to enter politics, when, he alleges, the same crea-
tures will crawl around him in expectation of
small favors.
Walter Griffiths, M.P., who went to
England on behalf of the Westralian Separationists
and who was warmly praised for his Federal work
by Kingston, is lying seriously ill in an Adelaide
private hospital. He is the handsomest, the most
popular, and with one exception, the youngest
member of S. A. Assembly.
The late
oig bookmaker,
Alf. Josephs,
used to do
much sea-bath-
ing a couple of
summers back,
and haunted
the shallows at
a pleasant but
u n popular
watering-place
in a most amaz-
ing neck -to -
knee batliirig-
suit. The pe-
culiarity about
Alfred at this
time was that
he couldn’t
sink if he want-
ed to, and although
unable to swim a
stroke, he was quite
safe in flopping into
the deepest water.
One warm afternoon
he was floating
round casually with
his lips and rotun-
dity above water, joy-
fully smoking a mam-
moth cigar, when a
pleasure - boat laden
with youth and beauty
bumped into him and
sent him down into
the depths. There
were shrieks in many keys
as the large sportsman in his
fearful costume came sprawl-
ing up through the pellucid
water, breathing smoke, and
one man howled : “A
shark ! A shark ! It’s a
shark! ” Then the bookie
popped up like a cork.
“That’s a d good
guess, young man,” he said.
Justice Owen, of N.S. W.
Supreme,Court, was called to the Irish
Bar 41 years ago, and has been a resident
of N.S.W. since 1860. He was for a time in the
Civil Service as Principal Under-Secretary.
The Soudan Ministry of some 14 years
ago, is a scattered family. Premier Stuart dead ;
Dibbs m a Savings Bank billet; Cohen on the
Supreme Court Bench ; Copeland Agent-General
in .London ; Dailey and Farnell dead ; Reid (but
he was only on view a little while) still on the
stump; Wright, Trickett and Abbott hanging
around ; and Jennings dead.
Alfred Dufrayer, one of the recipients of
the four “ Queen’s scarves,” is a son of the lady
who, when a girl at her father’s station of
Pechelba, where bushranger Morgan was killed,
was compelled by the desperado to perform at the
piano nearly all the night for his delecta-
tion. Morgan was shot leaving the house in the
morning by a stockman named Wendlaw.
Lord VVolseley’s recent severe slating of
the Aldershot division of the British forces was
directed really at the Duke of Connaught—com-
manding said division and considered by Wolseley
to be occupying a position which would be much
better filled by one at whom he (Wolseley) could
“sling-off” when needful. The incident will not
increase the violent regard which Her Gracious is
known to entertain for Wolseley.
A definite pronouncement has at last been
elicited from Premier Seddon re the M.L. Agent-
Generalship. King Dick avers thUt he has no
intention of supplanting Peeves, who is to be
offered office for another term. Reeves’ accept-
ance, however, is problematical in view of the
well-known fact that the editorship of a prominent
London paper is at his disposal. It may in the
end prove to be a matter of “ screw.”
Mainly about a prospective S.A. Premier :
With Federation accomplished and sundry big poli-
ticians out of the road, John Greeley Jenkins, Chief Sec.
in the present Holder Ministry, is certain to have an early
chance of S.A. Premiership. “ Jinks ” was born in
Susquehannah, Murka, in ’5l, but he is a full-blooded
Welshman. Struck Adelaide in ’7B with a consignment
of books and a Yankee twang, and immediately jumped
into politics. Has been in office more than half his time,
and is one of the sturdiest of Kingston’s democratic
followers. Will be 49 Sept. 8.
Robert Horseil, a man who was aboard the
Coromandel, which really arrived at S. Austra-
lia ahead of the Buffalo, though the latter is
always regarded as the pioneer vessel, died a fort-
night ago, aged nearly 100. The Buffalo had the
officers of the proposed settlement aboard ; hence
the Coromandel had to hold-off while she came up.
Bor years, before there was any railway, Horseil
carried the English mails between Holdfast Bay
(now Glenelg) and Adelaide.
N.S. W. Postmaster-Generalshipseems to be
the longest-lived portfolio : no less than 14 former
holders of the office still survive—Tighe, Samuel,
Burns, F. B. Suttor, Wright, Trickett, James
Norton, See, Dan O’Connor, C. J. Roberts, H.
Clarke, Kidd, Cook, V. Parkes. The reason why
so many ex-Postmasters-General are still in the
flesh no doubt is that the office is usually held by
the fool of the Ministry, and when a man has no
brains he is never attacked by that most fatal of
diseases, nervous Ability.
Colin Templeton, mentioned along with
C. L. McDonald in W. R. Wilson’s will —“St.
Albans ” left them £lOO each to buy a memorial
—has been for a dozen years a sort of
confidential financial adviser of several of the
big Broken Hill men. Mr. Templeton first got
MELBOURNE ON SUNDAY.
Note. This is not a joke; Melbourne on Sunday
is no joke. These things seem to the artist to
symbolise the atmosphere of a Yarratown
Sabbath. Item, two “ tarts ,” two lads; item,
one drunk; item, one dog; item, one police-
man; item, one funeral.
into their eye when as manager at Broken Hill for
the Bank of Australasia he did the co.’s local
business ; and it was soon made worth his while
to quit the bank service and get somewhere where
“ the Queen-street crowd ” might more conveni-
ently consult him.
Sam M‘Caughey, M.L.C., the Riverina
bachelor millionaire, was once showing round his
Coonong station a young and pretty widow.
Drawing a long breath, he said, “ There is only
one thing that Coonong wants ! ” The lady
thought quickly, and coquettishly queried :
“What is that, Mr. M'Caughey?” “ Water,”
replied the gilded Samuel.
When the late John O’Shanassy was made
a knight he was dissatisfied. He wanted
a baronetcy to hand down to his son Matt.
—who recently died. Had poor Matt,
got the thing he wouldn’t have known
what to do with it—he’d rather
have won Melb. Cup every third
year. But Big John wouldn’t >
have got even the knighthood
but for his old friend Duffy.
When C.Gr.D. was kicked
out of office in ’72, after
being a year in (most of
it was recess), his friend,
Dr. .John Grey (who was
tried with him in ’44 at
Dublin for sedition) and
John Cashel Hoey, hus-
band of the novelist, went to
Gladstone, then Premier,
and represented what he
(Duffy) had done for the
land-laws of Victoria, and how
badly he had been treated, and
asked that he should be soothed
and consoled. Then, when Duffy
got his knighthood, O’S.’s friends
made a row, and so Big John
was bebaubled, too. Which is
true history, till now unprinted.
Ex-Premier Brad d o n
(Tas.), when he makes a big
speech, always has a glass of
whisky-and-water at hand. He
stands at the clerk’s desk, and fixes his beverage
behind a row of Tasmanian statutes.
The demise of Alfred of Saxe-Coburg re-
calls an incident of his Maoriland peregrinations
as Duke of Edinburgh. In Rotorua district he
succumbed to the fascinations of a dusky Delilah,
assumed marital responsibilities, and boarded at
the pah. When he departed, the damsel was
conveyed by her people to a place where she was
strictly secluded for months from the other sex
upon the chance of the appearance of a little
coffee-colored semi-Edinburgh. It was not to be,
however; though it may be mentioned that in
after years other touring Lancelots were more suc-
cessful in this way with the lady, who is still alive.
The slavish way in which Australian news-
papers crib from reference - books printed in
England was curiously illustrated the other day
in Melbourne. The death of Faed, R.A., was
cabled on Friday. Both Argus and Age give
short biographies of him, with a string of the
titles of his best pictures. But neither paper
mentions the only fact of local interest about him
—neither apparently knew it—that the picture
that established his fame, “The Mitherless
Bairn,” hangs in Melbourne Gallery. The Argus
says he made “a great hit with his popular pic-
ture ‘The Mitherless Bairn,’” but is evidently
quite ignorant of the close proximity of said canvas
to the Argus office.
Barton’s English trip seems to have
changed him somewhat. He keeps himself more
in hand; is not, perhaps, more urbane, but more
deliberately urbane; respects himself more in
preserving a more restrained manner. Perhaps
his wits have gained polish as well as his taste.
He seems to have somewhat modified his charac-
teristic tendency to subtilise and refine —a weakness
which has spoilt many of his popular addresses.
Rubbing shoulders with John Morley and James
Bryce may have widened his hitherto mainly
academic sympathy with Liberalism. He seems
to his friends to have grown visibly in mind and
in scope of purpose.. If Barton had to stand up
to his equals in a House of Commons, in the fence
of mind with master mind, he might grow into a
very great Parliamentarian indeed.
In his recent Melb. lecture on Eureka
Stockade, banker H. G. Turner told an awful
story of disloyalty in the weeks preceding the
fight. The American consul’s dinner was proceed-
inr>' at Ballarat when the toast of the Queen was
called. To the proposer’s horror, nobody moved ;
but at last the spokesman of the local men arose
and said: “We respect the Queen, but we’re
asked to respect her maid servant and her man-
servant, her ox and her ass, and this we will not
do.” In connection with the Eureka business, it
is not generally known that the now awfullest
of Vic. Conservative drivellers was among the
contingent marching from Maryborough to the
assistance of Peter Lalor, or that Dr. Enabling,
father of the present sickening Tory, led the
Melb. agitation of sympathy with the diggers.
At the recent annual banquet in London
of the Associated Board of the Royal Academy of
Music and the Royal College of Music, JST.S.W.
Agent-General Copeland was “down for” reply
to the toast of “The Visitors.” Upon this sub-
ject Henry duly expanded himself ; but, finding
that by some chance the Times had omitted all
reference to himself and his oratory, he jumped at
the chance of the ad. and duly notified the Thun-
derer that he had not only spoken on the occa-
sion, but had paid Mr. Chamberlain a “well-
earned tribute of praise” for his “masterly
navigation of the Commonwealth Bill through
shoals and quicksands,” &c. An ingenuous and
narochial personage is the man who wanted “Old
England ” to “blood her pups” ; he writes to the
lorldly Times just as Aid. Smith, of Maitland,
N.S.W., would write to the local Mercury.
Trotter Bethune writes :
Some six or eight months ago, you published a para-
graph to the effect that David Syme would cheerfully give
half the profits of the Age to anyone who would cure him
of his chronic rheumatism. Now.l have an infallible cure
for rheumatism. So after reading your par. I wrote to
Mr. Syme enclosing my prescription and hoping it might
cure him. I received a letter in replv signed “G. Syme ”
in which the writer pulled my leg a little. He said that
Mr. Syme thanked me for my prescription and trusted
that it might be as beneficial to him as it had been to me.
A few days ago, not having heard further from Mr. Svme"
I began to think it was about time the half-share of the
paper came along, and I accordingly waited upon him
ostensibly .on mining, business. Turning to leave his
apartment, I remarked, casual-like, “ I sent you a pre-
scription for rheumatism some time ago.” “ Ah,” he said
“ what was it you recommended, was it milk ?” ’ “ No,” I
replied, “it was ” (naming the formula). He remarked
“ Very funny, but The Bulletin said I had rheumatism!
and I’ve had dozens of prescriptions showered upon me
ever since. As a matter of fact, I never had rheumatism
in all my life.”
IN PUSH SOCIETY.—A BELATED
CEREMONY .
LIZ: “Hello, Sardine, what’s the row up to your
place?”
SARDINE: “Aw, northin’. On'y mother try in'to
argue dad into marryin’ her.”
It is the custom of Yic. Chief Justice
Madden—who could long live on his own adiposity
—never to eat in the middle of the day, and very
often he keeps the court sitting through the usual
luncheon-hour. But sometimes, in deference to
the preoccupied look of a hungry barrister, he
adjourns for 20min. or half-ari-hour. During the
hearing of the Wilkie divorce case, t’other day,
the lawyers, as usual, rushed in at the time for
resuming, munching the last mouthful of an un-
finished meal—but only to be kept waiting for
another half-hour for his Waxelleney’s appear-
ance. Purves, Q.C., entered a mild protest by
remarking that if his Honor had adjourned the
court for an hour several members of the bar
would have been saved from indigestion. “Be
sides,” he added, “two waiters have probably
already died from exhaustion.” His Wax. seemed
hardly to relish the reference to his unpunctuality,
as he snorted, “I might have done so had I the
gift of prophecy.” The lawyers, however, now
hope that the Chief has taken to eating lunch,
even if he doesn't care to say so.
The creditors of the bankrupt Sydney firm
of Meyerfeld and Co. recently recorded by
unanimous vote their appreciation of the conduct
of Mr. H. A. Trower (one of the partners) who,
despite the fact that he had been relieved from
legal responsibility, came forward and honorably
settled the liabilities of the firm, which exceeded
£lOO,OOO. Mr. Trower’s firm went through the
Bankruptcy Court in ’9l, the dividend received
by the creditors being 3£d. in the £. By lucky
speculations on London Stock Exchange, since
his failure, Mr. Trower amassed a large fortune, a
considerable portion of which, he has now
to discharging his old-time liabilities. In many
respects Mr. Trower’s vicissitudes of fortune
closely resemble those of J. G. Ward, the present
acting-Premier of Maoriland. After the failure
of his Farmers’ Co-operative Co. some years ago,
Mr. Ward was forced into bankruptcy, and, at
the instance of some of his creditors, was subjected
to all the harassing vindictiveness of the Bank-
ruptcy Law—which can be very vindictive indeed
when it tries. When all was over, Mr. Ward
calmly set to work, made another pile, and put
his quondam tormentors to the blush by paving
up to the last penny.
Paris Nesbit, Q.C., feels that a new paper
is needed in Adelaide, and he propow s to fill the
gap :
Morning will be the advocate of lost causes. That is
of causes which appear to be lost, although just Of
course, no just cause is ever really lost*. Every tragedy
is the opening act of a comedy. From time to time
character-sketches will be given of Australian Judges and
other leading public men. Much will be extenuated—or
how should they survive?—and nought will be set down
in malice. Publicity is the salt of social life. It is the
river which alone can cleanse an Augean stable
It is intended to run this paper as Christ would if He
were Butaect to the present limitations of my faculties
Sheldon s attempt failed as it deserved. Puritanism is a
phase of Christianity, but it is not Christianity. The
most- notable event of his week’s editorship was the sui-
cide of a wretched compositor, driven to desperation bv
being dismissed because he was drunk. A prettv result
of so-called Christian practice!
The three most distinctively Christian newspapers
known to me are the London Spectator, the Sydney
Bulletin, and the Adelaide Herald. But the Spectator’s
Christianity is Mammon worship ; The Bulle-
is too Voltairean : and The Herald is perhaps too
a of Lahor t on C ly nSldennff PUbUC questions in the *•»-
Prominence will be given to everything that tends to
vivify and sweeten society. Amusements and legitimate
sport will receive due attention ; but the columns of the
journal will be closed to all that ministers to unhealthy
excitement such as gambling on the Stock Exchange
and the nefarious part of proceedings at race meetings’
The question which particular swindler intends to win
and with which particular horse, has no interest for the •
proprietor of this paper. e
Regular contributions are expected from some of the
most noteworthy persons of genius in the British Empire •
such as my cousin Edith Nesbit, the greatest
English woman poet, and perhaps the greatest woman
IVu her hushind Bland the
Fa * )lan essayist, fiction critic for the London
Dail\ Chronicle \ and their friend Bernard show
century. Saturday revie ™ er - the Ezekiel of ‘the nineteenth
The British race is burgeoning in this country Its
genius is ripening as it never ripened before-for genius
cannot ripan in a cold climate—and the glories "of the
Elizabethan era will pale their ineffectual fires before the
golden matin of Australia. Morning will be one of the
heralds of this radiant dawn. The inountaln peaks of
America are even now aflame with roseate sun-shafts •
but, as yet, m Australia, thouerh it is nearer thp rising
sun, the light has crept but slowly upwards K
Nesbit says he expects that Morning will eventu-
ally blossom from a weekly into a daily.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
The NATIONAL DRINK of AUSTRALASIA.
It possesses TONIC properties that healthfully stimulate without
exciting.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Aboriginalities.
After all the talk about “racial hatred,”
“ reversion to primal savagery,” and so on, in the
case of the Breelong black murderers, the captured
"Jacky Underwood’s” evidence makes it look
very much as if the redoubtable Jimmy Governor
is merely suffering from a bad attack of the white
man’s “ Dead wood Dick.” Said Jimmy to Jacky,
according to the latter’s story :
“I want to be the greatest murderer in New South
Wales. I’ll do for the first man I come across, either man
or woman, I don’t care a . The first woman I get
alive I tie her up to a tree, get a lot of bushes, make a
light round her, take her clothes off, get cold water and
chuck all over her.”
Pure Texas this! And again, according to
Jacky—" They think if they can capsize a train
they will be good men.” (“Darklieart the
Destroyer.”) “When they got to the foot of
Nulla Mountain they would slip off their clothes
and blacken themselves all over, let their hair
grow long, put eagles’ feathers in their heads.”
(Indian-warrior fashion), “and when they come
across any blackfellows they are going to take
their gins and live like that for 20 years.” How
schoolboy-like it all is !
* * * *
A bobby, who lately struggled in to Port
Augusta (S.A.) with three aboriginal prisoners,
deserves credit as a plodding man with the grit
that subdues mountains. He captured his three
black brethren away up in the region where there
is nothing but loneliness and rocks, and rode
with them 500 miles to Blood Creek. Then,
finding there was neither feed nor water on the
110-mile stage which remained before the railway
line was reached, he left the horses, and manfully
walked and belted his three niggers over that last
awful stage in four days. The mixed train took
them to Port Augusta, and, having handed over
his prisoners, the trap set out on his return jour-
ney. If he never turns up again at Arltunga the
authorities may find a policeman’s bones on the
dry 110-mile stretch north of Oodnadatta. What
pay does the active and intelligent officer get for
this kind of work? The word “active” isn’t sar-
casm when applied to a man who can hustle three
grumpy aboriginals over 110 miles of dry country
on foot in four days.
* * » •
A Queensland trooper, near Esk, recently
rode 120 miles in 22 hours after a horse-thief, and
got his man. It wouldn’t do to send him after
the Governors. He might catch them.
* * * *
“Drill” : Driving to Mt. William (Vic.)
goldfields, the other day, I met two men with a
wheelbarrow, one in front with a rope pulling,
the other behind pushing; barrow loaded with
picks, shovels, cradle, tin-dish, &c. Told me they
had come from Charlton, distance, 140 miles.
Had averaged only Is. 6d. a week up there, and
got sick of it.
* * * * %
Dear Bulletin.—Reported (re the search
for the Breelong murderers) that “the Mudgee
police came across the blackfellows’ horses in ti-
tree scrub near O’Brien’s house. They must have
left their horses, there while committing the
murder. The police waited and watched, but the
blackfellows did not return for the horses.” I’ll
bet they did return, and duly spotted the police or
their tracks. It wa3 a fearful bungle ; for, though
it was right to watch the horses, one man could
have done that while the other —or others—fol-
lowed up the trail. By the way, it would be more
A Melbourne man who proposes to illustrate the Old Testament, starts by de-
picting for THE BULLETIN Adam being hunted out of the Garden of Eden.
correct to write of the Governors as “ half-breeds ”
or “cross-breeds,” than as “blacks.” Let the
white strain bear its share of the obloquy ! —H.S.
* * # *
Dear Bulletin. —Why shouldn’t the
"whalers” of N.S.W. have an electorate in the
Assembly? Says Gov. Lewelling of Kansas : “If
these men are an army of tramps and vagabonds,
they are none the less representative in character,
still the people shall rule and the voice of
vagabondage representing the majority, must and
shall be heard.” And what price a “whaler”
Senator, if the swagmen would take out their
rights and vote ?He would head the poll; but as
long as beer is beer they won't take out the little
blue paper. Personally I should be a “ cert.” for
a seat in the Senate, if I qould muster a pint a
man along the rivers, before it is too-late to run
the “ whalers ” in.— Scotty the Wrinkles.
* * * *
“E.C.” : High time some steps were
taken to curtail the duration of Maori tangis. A
native died from typhoid at Petane (Hawke.s
Bay) recently, his remains were taken as far as
Matatu (Bay of Plenty). The coffin was on the
Taupo road five weeks while the tangis were in
progress at the different places en route. At one
kaianga, the party with the corpse remained 10
days.
“Pelican”: Be the protraction of ob-
sequies over a Maori child until the corpse
dissoluted by effluxion of time and gave a mourner
typhoid. Australian aboriginals can go consider-
ably further. I have seen a lot of infant’s bones
in a gin’s “dilly-bag,” and was told that said
bones belonged to a piccaniny of hers which died
in its first year. The corpse had then been
deposited in the bag and despite the olfactory
inoonvenience, had been kept therein until only
the bones remained—presumably as a reminder
of what might have been.
* * * *
“ Canip ” : Down Leeuwin (W.A.) way
was once discovered, some miles inland, a skeleton
from which all vestiges of apparel had long dis-
appeared, but amongst the bones lay a flint-and-
steel and some gold and silver Spanish coins dated
well back in the 18th century. Marooned, pre-
sumably. The relics are now in Perth Museum,
though they do say that the gold coins exhibited
are not the originals.
♦ * * *
“ Yar.” : My longest iguana was 6ft. lljin.
I chased him into stump on mountain, between
Bulli and Douglas Park, and burnt him out.
[“ Titus Salt ”: My longest iguana was 27ft. I
chased him all round a public-house, till he finally
hid himself in a beer-pot.]
* ♦ * •
“ Chas. F.” writes about rabbits :
“N—d—W” (B. 2/6/’00) takes the N.S.W. and Q.
rabbit-proof fence as a standard of efficiency. I worked
for nearly the whole of ’B9 on a station on Q. side of that
fence. (Herewith, for your private information, is name
of said station.) At the end of ’BB there were
no rabbits on the station, but during ’B9 four
men were employed keeping them down. I know
positively that rabbits (then swarming in N.S.W.)
were thrown over the fence to keep things going ; and
now there is little difference between one side and the
other. Netting is not effective, except in small extents ;
there is always a gap of some sort in long miles of fencing,
and even in the case of small stretches rabbits are thrown
into cultivation paddocks to make things good for any
chance swaggie looking for a job. Also, young rabbits
will squeeze through the mesh when chased by the bucks.
Have never seen a rabbit climb a netting-fence, but have
known them climb upright hollow trees for 12.0 r 15ft.
inside the pipe. Have also seen them hanging dead 6ft.
up in forked mulgas. Rabbits will also jump 3 or 4ft.
over a drooping place in the netting, and some of them
will burrow under a fence. The Australian scrub-rabbit
in any case is not to be judged by the “ dairy-fed ” bunny
of England. The struggle for existence here has
sharpened his wits. He is hardier and more adaptable,
and, in the opinion of competent observers, is developing
the jumping qualities of those aboriginal animals whose
existence depends on the facility with which they can
bound over logs, broken scrub, &c. In Port Lincoln dis-
trict (S.A.) rabbits burrow a lot deeper on account of the
wild dogs, and there I have seen bunnies killed in burrows
(not wombat-holes) 6 and 7ft. deep vertically. I have not
been in the bush since ’94, but I know there was then an
unwritten law among “ travellers ” never to kill a rabbit.
One evening, when eight of us had camped on a Darling
bend, one man went away to get bait for the lines, and
came back with a live rabbit. The rest looked at him
aghast. “ You ain’t going to take a rabbit tor bait, are
you ? ” shrieked the old hand—“ and plenty of good sheep
about I Look here, my lad—by and by you’ll be looking
for work, and the rabbit ’ll give you more than the sheep.
Never kill a rabbit, unless you’re paid for it.”
* * *
“R.W.S.” : No wonder marsupials are
dying out. Recently saw a “ drive” in which 932
wallabies were yarded and killed with sticks by a
lot of so-called “ sports.”
An o 1 d
stockman’s
alleged flood
experience:
We’d been
three weeks
out, looking
for cattle ; no
rain for two
months, and
camped one
night in the
bed of abaked-
-up creek.
Awakened
about 3 a.m.
by crashing of
timber. Flood
waters from
up - country-
creek coming
down. Roused
my mate and
tried a bolt.
Too late
water over our
heads. On
reaching the
surface I heard
shout from
my mate and
next instant a
big log skim-
med past just
missing m y
head. After
another half-
mile (it seemed
to me five) I
was hurled in-
to a clump of
saplings. Hung
on somehow
till daylight, then tangled myself in the branches and
waited. Found mate and both horses two miles down.
Mate killed by log, horses drowned. Tramped 80 miles
to the nearest hut, and found it deserted, but had
the luck to strike another 15 miles further on. Got
tucker, borrowed a horse, and reached the station.
* • • •
“ C.H.L.” : Be the miles of prickly-pear,
6x7 feet high, said to exist in some parts of
Maranoa (W.Q.). This plant yields an excellent
brandy, and is in Algiers thus utilised. Why not
also in Australia? [Some prickly-pear experi-
mented on in Sydney didn’t contain enough sugar
to yield much alcohol.]
* * *
“ Jimmy P.” : In reply to “ Narked ” (B.
4/8/’00), there is no way of inducing a dog to show
his “kill.” Have had dozens of dogs up in the
Big Scrub and pretty well all over the Dividing
Range, and the best of them would often take me
half-a-dozen times past a “ kill ” without as much
as a tail-wag or an ear-prick to hint of its prox-
imity.
THE CIVILISING WAVE.
BIBLE DISTRIBUTOR: “Here, my
ignorant brother, is a Book I
have travelled weary, weary
miles to give you.”
IGNORANT BROTHER: “That's all right; but if you've got a new thing by Guyrie Boorell or
some tasty French trifles, I don't mind looking through your stock.”
W. A. Grenike, formerly a grazier in
western N.S.W. —at one time he was Mayor of
Wilcannia —writes to the Perth papers that Wes-
tralia is making a great mistake m fighting so
hard against a rabbit invasion. From his experi-
ence of western N.S.W, and Westralia Grenike
says that neither hares nor rabbits will ever
become a serious pest in Westralia, while they
would form a welcome addition to the scanty meat
supply of the way-back mining population.
* * * *
“ E.D.” : It doesn’t seem to have occurred
to the gohanna-eaters to try the ugly jew-lizard as
a viand; and yet, of all queer edible creatures of
the Australian bush this repulsive-looking little
beast is certainly the most toothsome. After
being left in hot-water awhile he skins easily,
and when skinned and fried his flavor and appear-
ance are exactly those of the much-esteemed
native black-fish. Indeed, the jew-lizard might
be dished up to black-fish enthusiasts without
their ever discovering the fraud. I know a man
near Cassilis, Vie. (a British new-chum, too), who
developed quite a passion for the jew-lizard, and
devoured it in preference to any other obtainable
tucker.
* * * *
"Fancy Free”: Before shooting-season
opened a Northern M.L. constable met a gum-
digger carrying a dead kiwi. Constable, an
amateur taxidermist, asked for and obtained the
bird. At home, the policeman found kiwi in the
list of protected game, and digger was promptly
summoned. Fine, £1 and costs. But the con-
stable paid the fine. Truly a straight policeman.
* * * *
“Give some account of the Romans,” was
a N.S.W. school-inspector’s direction to a class.
This is what appeared on one slate :
Dear Sir, —There isn’t many Romans about here, my
sister Kate married a roman but mother didn’t want her
because he only gets thurty bob a week from old S——
and the priest gets a lot of it. I can’t think of no more to
tell you now only the Romans put babys in salt and oil to
chrissen them.—Yours truely ; .
» • • *
Over some thousands of sq. miles of the
semi-desert country of far-west N.S.W., now
carrying a bit more herbage than usual owing to
timely rains, millions of caterpillars have been
gorging on young saltbush and anything else
tender. The matter having come under the
notice of the Agricultural Dept., that sapient
institution reported that the affected plants might
be treated with paris-green and treacle ! But a
natural antidote came along in the. form of a ter-
rific two-days’ duststorm, the wind and sand
whereof simply tore the billions of soft overfed
vermin to pieces.
* * * *
“Yang Anyut ” : Be preserved eggs (“ D.”
B. 14/7/’00). The Chinese bury duck-eggs in a
mixture of charcoal, paddy-husks, and salt. About
seven years are needed to ripen an egg to perfec-
tion, and then when boiled it has a golden-brown
yolk and black-and-grey marbled albumen. It
took me a long time to tackle the first, but I soon
got to like them.
The site of Eureka Stock-
ade is now a nicely-plant-
ed reserve. Recent-
ly a tree was planted
by Mrs. Penhalla-
rack, the first female
born on Ballarat;
while another was
planted by . Mrs.
Franks, who witness-
ed the encounter be-
tween the diggers
and the soldiers on
3rd Deo., 1854.
Pat (who has heard fearsome stories of
Australian wild beasts, and has just made the
acquaintance of a bull-dog ant): ‘ ‘ Hev schnakes
legs?” Mick: “Divvle a wan.” Pat: “Thin,
be the powers, I’ve bin bit be a wallaby.”
* * * *
Travelling through western
sheep-stations one is struck by the almost uniform
taciturn incivility of the “hands.” Whether
driving (as I was), riding or walking one meets on
every station the same kind of reception—a super-
cilious stare (seeming to say “Another blanky
stranger!”) a surly “G’day!” and grudgingly-
fiven directions as to route. One loses little,
owever, by this characteristic unsociability, for
of the outside world the ordinary station hand
knows nothing, and as he further never reads any-
thing but “ Dead wood Dick” literature, these
remarks will never hurt his feelings. He has no
ambition to see a city or the sea, sand is content to
remain on the one station all his life-time. I have
come to the conclusion that the evolution of this
type of bush-denizen is due to the fact that the
avoidance of strangers meets the approval of the
boss, who himself has no welcome for visitors,
other than the neighboring feudal magnates.
• * « *
“ A.P.R.” : The luck of drunks ! At a
bush pub. I once saw a drover come in and hand
over his cheque. In an hour he was scarlet drunk
—got on his nag, cantered 100 yards, and fell off
five times. Then he came galloping back and
threw himself off at the pub.-door. Said he was
thirsty, “ and the horse wouldn’t pull up.” And,
after all this, he didn’t show a scratch.
* * • •
“ W. 8.” : Recently had a delightful trip
in W. Queensland. The "coach” was a 2-horsv
IN VICTORIA—THE USUAL THING.
GE NIAL MAGISTRATE : “As you are ill and
destitute all I can do is to send you to gaol
for — er —twelve months .”


RINGS
LADIES’ RINGS
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
DRESS RINGS
Half-Hoop Diamond Ring.
From £5 ss.
Every kind of Gem Ring we make on the premises.
Why do we trouble to do this ? BECAUSE
We save our customers 25 per cent, of middlemen’s profits.
We buy the gems unset in quantities and at the lowest prices.
We have old world ring-makers who do the finest of fine work.
GEM RINGS.
All Diamonds .. from £5 ss.
Diamond and Sapphire „ £3 3s.
Diamond and Ruby .. „ £3 3s.
Fairfax 8l Roberts,
Vice-Regal Jewellers,
23 HUNTER STREET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
Examiner: “Wlio was Robespierre?”
Pupil : “He was shot in his bath, sir, by Char-
lotte Bronte. ”
“ The Bulletin is the most read of all the
Australian weeklies.” —Pierre Leroy-Beaulieu, in
Revue des Deux Mondeh, republished in his Les
SOCIETES ANGLO-SAXONNES.
While the last lot of Bushmen were at
Albany, on the way over, an Indian hawker went
alongside the steamer, with fruit, in a boat. The
soldiers lowered money in nose-bags, and got the
fruit up by same means. The last money lowered
was 45., and for it the Indian only sent up 12
bananas. Ere he had time to get his boat away,
however, two buckets of tar were emptied on top
of him, much to the delight of the whole ship !
Died recently, near London, Journalist
Blanch, founder of the famous Thirteen Club.
Blanch’s notion was to discredit every kind of ill-
luck-superstition ; with. which view he once gave
a dinner at the club to 169 guests, arranged in
parties of 13 at 13 tables. All the waiters were
cross-eyed ; a looking-glass was formally smashed,
to begin with; and the guests made a point of
spilling the salt, and in other ways defying all the
prevalent malominous notions.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEM TRADE.
H. Newman, the well-known jeweller of 175
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, is the largest buyer
of opal in Australia, and opal miners will find it
to their advantage to send their opal direct to
him. The firm has a reputation for straight deal-
ing extending over a period of 40 years, which is
a sufficient guarantee to consignors that they wili
be honorably treated. H. Newman is also a
buyer of all other Australian gems. *
• •
Kuppers Elberfeld Lager.
DAVID STORER & SONS’ ,n Three Colors-BLACK, RED and BLUE.
Registered
Trade
Mark.
Is the Only Absolutely
SAFE Wool ~
l ' ,nrt Marking
The Perfect Sheep-Marker- BRANDING OIL.
Kept by ALU MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
2-seated buggy, and contained a policeman in
charge, and a man who had delirium-tremens and
had been 18 days without food. Latter was
stretched out in the bottom of the buggy, and used
as a footstool by his caretaker. Wonder is he didn’t
die during the trip of 14 hours.
• » • •
“ Louis M.” on “a deeper Sheol ” :
Re “ Trotter’s ” remarks (B. 23/6/’00), Surat (Q.), from a
travelled “ out-backer’s ” view, may be considered an ely-
sium. For instance, vegetables, beef, bottled beer, fish,
fruit, sheets, bathrooms, &c., are not absolutely paralys-
ing phenomena there. Also, there is usually a fair sheet
of water in the Balonne, and the eye may dwell pleasantly
on the green of the Chinamen’s gardens. Coaches, too,
pass through the place, and dwellers therein may, if they
choose, thus learn much of the outer world. “ Trotter ”
should try a further-out “ hotel ” —where a stranger may
not hope undirected to recognise the main building, or
rather, the hut that bears somewhere on its undressed-
“ slab ” wall the legend of, say, “ Bed Dorg hotle —by—
Bob Maginis.” Sundry “ clay-pans ” dotting the chaotic
scene (these in their turn speckled with various unplea-
sant thihgs) afford the sole water supply, and all around
are multitudinous dogs, pigs, goats, and fowls. Cuisine
—pork and damper with (on rare occasions) “ pigweed.”
Liquors—all from one bottle, and a mystery at that.
Bath—not to be even hinted at. Let “Trotter” put in
five years on a W.Q. “out-station,” broken only by
periodical visits to such bowers of delight as the above,
and he’ll simply howl for the fleshpots of Surat.
*
“F.W.R. Had a pretty clever dog
once. If you showed him the cart-winkers he’d
bring the cart-horse, and if the riding-bridle he’d
bring the hack. Sent him home once with a calf
which stuck him up half-way and wouldn’t budge
an inch one way or the other. The dog suddenly
tore off home and into the dairy, dipped his tail in
the milk, went back to the calf, gave him the
milky tail to suck, and so got home easy.
• * • •
“ Canip ” : My black friend Jerry explains
as follows why bees don’t sting niggers
You climb it tree and stuff that fella bee-hole up with
hankshiff ; then you out nutha fella hole longit tree and
put it other fella hankshiff longa that. Wait lily while
an’ that fella bee smell it blackfella longa hankshiff an’ get
very frightun, cause him know it blackfella, and no sting.
You cut him right open, then alrigh.
Jerry leaves it an open question whether it is the
smell of the nigger or the nigger himself that
frightens the bees. If it is the former I can quite
understand it. The rational explanation, I ima-
gine, is that the bees are bewildered by the block-
ing of the holes and the tapping, and start gorging
themselves stupid with honey, so that by the time
the nest is opened up they are in no condition to
show fight. [But bees (European variety) do sting
niggers.]
“ Rex ” : “ P.H.0.” (B. 28/7/’00) omitted
from his list of aboriginal animal-cry-names those
of the curlew—“ coweela” for the male and
“creben” for the female: which respectively
almost say these words.
• • • •
“C.H.L.” . The pickling of live pork
was tried in Maoriland long before that
Muswellbrook farmer (B. 28/7/’00) attempted
it. Over a score years ago, the then
young and foolish mistress of a household in
Karori, near Wellington, caused her pigs to be
supplied with the brine from which a lot of dead
pork had just been taken. “Didn’t want the
brine wasted.” Result, within a few days, exten-
sive porcine obsequies.
“ Canip Cera-
todus Fosterii (a
“ lung-fish ”) is un-
known outside Bur-
net and Mary Rivers
(Q.) and their tribu-
taries. True barra-
mundi fexist only in
the Upper Dawson
(Q.). So-called bar-
ramundi on N.Q.
coast —called Palmer
fish at Mackay—is
only a gigantic perch
which grows up to as
much as 2001 b., and
is most voracious.
At Port Alma
wharf, Keppel Bay
(Q.), the way of
catching them is to
bait a shark-hook
with a piece of white
rag, and jiggle it
near the surface after
dark. When a
“barra” is hooked
he strives hard to
entangle the line
with the wharf-piles
—hence the line
should be very short.
Where the gigantic
perch are plentiful,
in tidal creeks, all
round is heard the
sound they make
with their mouths at
the surface very
like the popping of
ginger-beer corks.
Stanton and Cole went out from Grant
(Vie.) into the distant hills to work an alluvial
creek which Cole had found. The latter had
come in from a prospecting tour full of his amaz-
ing discovery. It was in country, he said, where
no white but himself had ever set foot, and it
seemed to be more his pride and glory as a pioneer
than the richness of his find that made him en-
thuse by night and day till Stanton was persuaded.
After a toilsome two-days’ journey, the partners
struck the new field—hitherto untrodden by
Human boot—and they camped. Next morning
they went out with pick and pan, and Stanton
washed his first wash. It yielded about two and-
a-half colors and—a false tooth set in vulcanite.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on MS.
No liability is undertaken in any case re contribu-
tions voluntarily submitted, whether sent by post or
handed in ; and in no case will MS. be returned un-
less stamps (of any province) accompany.
Gr.C. A.: That conundrum was graven on Cheops’
pyramid by a drunken Egyptian laborer, Ishmael:
What a tame wild man you are! M.L. (Vic.) : “ Flana-
gan ” jingles fairly, but lacks point D.P.L. : “ Days of
Life” too close to A. L. Gordon A.M.M.: Bulletin
believes in the entire abolition of the legal attachment of
wages—this as a step in the direction of the utter aboli-
tion of legal process for the recovery of debt. Imprison-
ment for debt has been practically abolished, and gradu-
ally there has been established in many countries the
freedom from seizure by creditors of a certain amount of
household furniture, tools of trade, life-assurance and so
on. Democracy and civilisation will continue to march in
that direction and credit will ultimately be given or
refused on a man’s personal character and chances, not
upon the creditor’s power to sell up the debtor’s home....
A.W.P. : What Deakin said was that his London expenses
had been comparatively small because ill-health and domes-
tic reasons had prevented him from taking part in the en-
tertainments offered to and returned by the other delegates
S.G.M. : A page of personal particulars to introduce
such a mere puerility 1... .W. : A striking and painful
story, but such women are fortunately rare M.W.P. :
But there are local precedents, cutting both ways. For
instance, when Edmund Barton was N.S.W. Attorney-
General a coroner’s jury found a certain male baby-
farmer guilty of manslaughter, but Barton indicted the
man for murder, and he was hanged for that crime
Elma V.: Interesting, but based on very old and thread-
bare idea. Look up “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” and read
slave-catcher Loker on the meanness of death-bed repent-
tances R.A. (Windsor) : Good enough J.E.W.
(Zeehan) : If you buy for £5O and sell for £lOO, the profit
is 100 per cent. If you buy for £lOO and sell for
£5O, the loss is 50 per cent. The author of the
“ Buyer’s Order Book ” has merely rediscovered an
old mistake, like Besant’s astronomer, Reginald Ambler,
who rediscovered that the world is flat Ignotus :
What is the grievance ? The B.N.Z. was not a
State Bank but a purely private affair when it made the
investment you complain of. Maoriland Govt, did not
lose anything by putting the money temporarily to its
current account at the Colonial Bank. It had to put the
money somewhere ; and the Colonial was known to he
able to pay its depositors in full, though the shareholders’
capital was lost. The State has got £441,000 odd from
the people by the sale of Consols, and the annual interest
is £15,452. With the money it has repurchased State
securities which cost in annual interest £16,630, thereby
making a good saving. And what is the difficulty of
realising? When people are willing to buy Consols
at par from the State, they will also buy them at par
from private persons. The talk of £5 charges for selling
£5O worth of Consols is pure drivel. Consols are more
easily saleable than land or houses, anyhow “George
T.” (W.): “No wise man ever tells his religion.”....
R.D.M. : Oh no, we do not insist on type-written matter.
But it is only the well-established genius who is privileged
to write like flies crawling out of an ink-bottle.... Charles :
Grace Palotta was born in Austria, not Australia Paul
Pry :No use... .Hermit: None has sufficient force or in-
terest.. ..F.F.T. : Not worth writing, let alone printing.
... Ahan : “ Flight ”of long words over a dead subject....
Waimak : With a block and a chopper and a blue apron,
you might be a butcher—never a poet.. . .G.II. (N.S.W.) :
Declined E.N. (V.): Too vague J.K.M. : Queen Vic-
toria’s exact height is a jealously-guarded State secret
X. : An unknown quality... .Treb : We’ve already had
various versions of that puris naturalibus yarn. The
other is a dramatic chance missed, though you don’t end
badly... .Rex : Do use plain English ! Don’t write “an
unparalleled incident eventuated” when you mean “it
strangely happened.”... .000-ee : A very old story—not
REPRISALS.
PATSY (son of the rival laundry): “Now I'll pay the yaller cow out
for washin’ shirts for tuppence. See! ”
too badly rendered.... Emelie H. : Quite out of our line ;
but manifests a good observative faculty.. . Pipe : Som-
eone of them up ; though none of them despicable... .
Will J. : “ Poole ” too jerky and unintelligible Stroller :
“ Price,” will consider W.H.K. : A London-laid story
doesn’t suit us ; and it’s not much of a story, anyhow...".
Mup : Utterly barren of interest..... Sandy S. : One
usable A.O. : The Boer forces, according to Cecil
Rhodes and to their officials’ own accounts, never ex-
ceeded 35,000 men (and women) W.M. : George-st.,
Sydney, was originally known as High-st.....Russley :
“ C.W.” somehow lacks force Brute : But good rubies
are more valuable than diamonds Holdar M. :If you
didn’t get replies, the things sent were unavailable. * As
to the one reply you did get, that probably applied to
matter first selected as a likely subject, but finally re-
jected E.J.W. : Doesn’t hang to anything—doesn’t
stand a10ne.... Prospect Sorry “Caprice” not up....
0.D.P.: Not good enough O.M.T. or J. : Poem bad or
THE FIEND WHO ASKS NEEDLESS QUESTIONS.
KODAK FIEND: “Hello, fishing?” FISHERMAN : “No, you idiot — I’m play in cricket."
worse Joey B. : You are a Man of Sin Spes : None.
W.M.F. “White-face” unusable, and “Spring.”
... .C.G. : Can do nothing with it... C.P.O. : The fact
remains that lots of colliers, with only a few feet of free-
board, sneak up Sydney harbor late at night, in order
that their illegally-overloaded condition may escape
official observation... .Wallan : We’ve had goanna-cwm-
bone in abundance. Subject now shut-down on.
....F.A. : It certainly isn’t funny—but perhaps you
thought it was clever !... .Trilobite : Thanks ; but you
must oe a curious fossilist not to be able to spell “ palae-
ontologist” and “ quadruped.”... .0. Lewis : Effort to be
smart is too apparent. Not hopeless, though... .T.J. :
Incident too “ strong,” and style too weak and wordy.. ..
Zebra : Dreary tangle of words around a very small
motive. Literature’s off your beat... .M.L. : Very jerky
and unequal, and quite out of Bulletin's line Uloo. :
Commonplace comparisons and feeble sentiment....
A.P.R, : Lively, as far as it goes ; but that isn’t far
enough.... E. Stanley: Nothing in it, as told. Could
have been made much more 0f... .Fancy-F. : Crude,
but may possibly be knocked into shape
(Juilp N. : Will print 0.8 A.H.: Quite out of our
line ; even if the scene hadn’t been laid at the other end
of the earth Prodigal: Clever in its way, but would
need too much fixing up Grant H. : Power in both,
though very erratic. Will consider H.M. : “ Cross-
Roads,” will consider. “Jones,” best of others, but not
quite up Tangata M. : Much worry is often an ante-
cedent of cancer J.J.B. : Don’t remember it, and
can’t answer your question unless you give date.... A.K.:
“In the (s)wheat by-and-by” is an old Harper’s sub-
ject Tang. M. : Your remarks about the clerics in
question are prima -facie libellous, and cannot be
printed in any shape unless we have before us the
printed reports on which they are ostensibly based
C.H. (Rockhampton): There are any number of good
works on the subject. Don’t know which is the best.
Better ask your bookseller to get you the one most in
in demand... .Democrat (Bundaberg) : Have some such
scheme in view Wat Tell : 145th joke of the kind that
has reached us in the last three months Jas. H. : Not
a very surprising incident C.O. : Poem burnt as re-
quested .... Herbert B. : “ Dull Atrocity ” makes us feel
bad.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
H.J.L. : One may serve as a suggestion... .T.R.D. :
Very good and characteristic indeed... .P.H.S. (Ad.) :
Too laborious... ,J. Robertson: Two good ideas....
J.C.S.H. : Chinese subject may do ; others unsuitable
11.5. D. :To hand.... Kas : Only one for direct reproduc-
tion ; another as suggestion.. ..A.J.B. : Serviceable per-
haps in paragraphic form.. . .E.E.J. : Two acceptable.
You have a strong sense of humor, and should diligently
study from life at the art-school Unavailable :
A.C.W., J. Bor. (Al. Rd.), M’Affie, C.P. and Match-box,
W.T.C., Zasa, W.G., C. 8.8., Sahiuma.
As Good as the Original.
The attention of readers is invited to an adver-
tisement which appears elsewhere concerning the
“ Encyclopaedia Britannica.” The London Times
has reprinted the latest —the ninth —edition of
this monumental work, and is now offering it at
very much reduced prices. The publishers’ cata-
logue price for the 25 volumes of which the work
consists is £37, but the arrangements made by
The Times are such that the purchaser may obtain
the whole work for £l7. That is, if he arranges
to pay cash, in which case he will have the
pleasure of knowing that he has obtained posses-
sion of this standard publication, in 25 quarto
volumes, at a price lower than the wholesale price
at which it used to be sold to booksellers. But,
if it will suit him better to make monthly pay-
ments, the purchaser has only to send a guinea to
the Sydney agent, with an order for the edition in
cloth, half morocco, or full morocco. He will, of
course, have to pay more for the latter bindings,
but if he chooses cloth he can get the whole
edition for 17 guineas. The reprint is excellent
from the printer’s point of view—quite as good as
the original edition sold at more than double the
price. On the payment of the guinea the books
are sent to the subscriber. It would be late in the
day to say anything in favor of the “Encyclo-
paedia Britannica,” on which the best-informed
men of the time have spent their labor. Full par-
ticulars of the terms and so forth will be found in
our advertising columns. It will be noted that
the offer is to be -permanently withdrawn on
Sept. 15th.
«.
“Avenge us ! ” cry missionaries when cor-
nered by the heathen. Taking it as prescribed
that it is their duty “to teach all nations,”
modern missionaries must learn to discharge their
duty as the early Christians discharged it. If
they penetrate China or elsewhere they must
accept the consequences, without right of appeal
to consul or ambassador. That is their Scriptural
bond. If they persist in practically holding that
their spirits are in the proselytising cause, but
that their skins are still the property of their
Government, it will become the duty of statesmen
to legislate that any man or woman who enters a
foreign country to teach Christian doctrines shall
lose his citizenship.
A TAME WALLAROO BEGGING FOR
LOLLIES.


MELBOURNIAN A.
WARRNAMBOOL, Tuesday. C
Mr. T. Bont has resolved not to seek Parlia '
mentary honors in this district at the next elec-
tion, but to stand again for his old constituency,
Brighton.
ftp’ll
m , K m ct Wl°»7 Bent": 'OJ
S 1 <WT m-Kce JffxtT
f /fc **&.*s&£>**
zb W e» 7 %5
7/ 7 rcce^ioy
Ijjik
C°y<e l «
W^-
hi
j 4
A moderately large audience a f se .™' , ' e l i 's, t
Independent Hall, Roswll-street, last »‘K ht £) “
u!i lecture on "Gambling " by the Rev. Ur.
Bevan.' The lecturer closed his address with a
reference to the totalisator. The introduction of
the totalisator here would not, he tetiend. lease”
the evils incidental to gambling, although there
waa a time when he had thought otherwise.
SV' - > -
X
fsr^y
A'VV'
•*>
/
VS N <> I^o® j,.
V^'
'tf o j„ 7 hf ?
WW, s|( u ll
f\ se ' '"W/W- i
Us Pot' I
a, bokc-f J
k°f (Hi
§l ovyt £ H
|j rr/efelw w
/ ol?3^otioj7
MR. R. VL SMITH’S
The fact that Mr. R. M. Smith intends to\
retire from political life at the termination of
the present Parliament has placed the Con-
servative party in Hawthorn m somewhat of
a predioament, as difficulty is experienced in
finding a suitable candidate. So acute did
the situation beoome that a meeting waa
called last night in the local coffee-palace to m
consider the matter. About 30 electors were
present, and the chair waa occupied by Mr.
Clooper.
The Chairman said that, notwithstanding '
strong pressure, Mr. R. M. Smith had an
nouncecf his intention of not standing for re
election.
/'A\ ! n ijttjoTl Im UHifee.X
Vjijicl/V,i?rf|ou Ve
o,ie H7OU \sr Wy
WeVeK w-eV-eV-er,
K.A.L. (Burwood) writes"My son is 161
years old, and is only about 4ft. 9in. Can you .-ul
etSim 8 ..” 1 i W V lf 1 “ n at all increase his
■ W loelD « 80 much at bio business
bem * 80 ' MM - ’ E RALO medical
Mcft'nff4icad enquiry
vJo\?T e\ 1 w^H
O<AV »tf „
n/wj'fbc sbeft' o^cy'’ —
oblTe oflfo boy sa^(^ f .
<?f i fficn tfy~ >


THINGS IN GENERAL.
FEDERATION ODE.
Premier Lyne, in reply to Mr. Rose, said that the advis-
ableness of offering a prize for the composition of a national
i»de in honor of the consummation of the Union of Australia
would be referred to the committee to be appointed to make
arrangements in connection with the inauguration of the Com-
uaonwealth and swearing-in of,the GovernorJjeneral.
grudge Zains?t£ S “ d ' mly underetJ *> d the Chinese
teSri h»?f f ’" ,ss ' onaries is not on account of their
° ’ tis due to their perpetual interference with local
customs, which have nothing to do with religion
The finishing touch to a Celestial brand snatched
from the burning is an excised pigtail, and that’s
where the Boxer steps in.
/wANW !
Acmcun&
f apply
warn de? t (
FOR N-s-r
\NO OBJECTION to
, local T/iUwr
Ttt/ORKS MP?
V \9S V ' 5 \
,to^ e v \\ rt'^’
r vo tV \ $° sS '
Scion of Supkkioii It ace :
“My won), John, you
losee your countlee now.
Plentee Flenchrnan, German, Eng-
lishman takee allergedder.”
John: “That noting; two blackfellow
'been takee Austalee.”
II
“ Without attempting to lay
down any hard-and-fast rule on
-the matter, therefore, it is not
too much to expect that in the
future the State Governors
will include local men, and that
the possibility of winning the
prize of vice-regal office will j
always be an incentive to high effort in the service of the /
State public.” /
Wilein'g Watkins (looking for employment) “My f
kword ! after the terrible experiences' of Beauchamp /
in the billet you don’t ketch me applyin’ for
job. Give me scrub-cuttin’ every time ! ”
~ r _L 5- —-z
#Bt'OPENCD T.U
fpy
ioUto^i
Ttit
htymh /
Vh\TomP /
Holy (J j
441 TrnTJUI
r 1 - THE SPIRIT OF JOHN CALVIN.
“Mr. Edwards, S.M., who presided at Newtown Police Court yesterday,
had before him a number of cases in which well-known local tobacconists were
changed with trading on Sunday.
“The informations, instead of being laid under the old Act of Charles 11., were
laid under the 10th section of the Towns Police Act (Vic. If., No. 2). This section
provides that justices of the peace shall, as far as in their power, cause the Lords
Day to be duly observed.”
BBSSswfl
MfJ
V rVV'
=4^*'
an undertakers 1 UN ton
The. long hours and increasing fre-
quency of Sunday funerals has led under-
takers’ employes to begin the formation
(of a union. Sunday burials are charac-
terised as contributing to the under-
takers’ desire for show, that day being
the best for such purposes. On the
ground that the Sunday labor was excess
ive, it was decided to form a union as a
nreliminary to abolishing il
/id o^ih~f-
jfci u,*,*™*
U (^** *"/
iy jzflf- ■


and. Birthday Gifts Direct from London House
Wedding?
A. SAUNDERS.
Hair Brush, Pure Silver, in Silk-lined Gage, 30s.
Monogram Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
M Eemaire w F*ield and Onara (Haas, 255, £2
A. SAUNDERS.
Teapots, Pure Silver-plated, Yarious Styles of
Engraving, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Send for Pattern Book.
A. SAUNDERS.
2 Jam Spoons, or Butter, in Silk-lined Case,
7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 21s, 255, 30s.
Very Neat and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 o’clock Tea Spoons in Silk-lined Case, in
Various Patterns, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s, 255.
Gent/B “ Companion,” or Letter Book, Pure
Silver Mounted, 12s <sd, 15s, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
3W Cruets, Pure Silver-plated,
20s, 255, 30s, 355, £2.
Silver-plated Bread
Fork, 10s 6d ; other
styles, 4/6, 7/6, 15s.
A WARM FRIEND.
Silver - plated, 108,
12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Biscuit, Floral China, Silver-plated
Mounts, 158, 208, 255.
o v
oz
rji
A
V:
UJ
£2
t^r-U
Child’s Sets in Silk-lined Cases, 10s, 18s, 80s,
255, 30s.
HAMDSOMK 8 ‘KIKINQ CLOCK.
Majble BjDhy StlriMhg Qloolt, Gilt Mount*;. S 9; without Mw nt*„ St*.
Guitranteod. !0
AliliiliMM
«Si- 5
*•?«
A. SAUNDERS,
M Roger's * Carvers, in Silk-lined Case, 20s ; Other Styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
large size cake or fruit
BASKET.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 26#.
Extra Ornamented, 30s.
Handsome and Useful Present.
A. SAUNDERS.
Dinner Cruet, 6 Bottle*, Pure Silver-Plated,
355, £2, £2 10a, £3, £3 10s.
4 O’clock Tea Set, with Covers, Pure Silver-plated, Gilt Inside.
FI st-cl s; English Make, £2 10s.
Similar Styl j, £2, £2 15s, £3, £3 10s, £4.
Hair Brushes, Pure
Silver, 17s 6d, 21s, 255,
31s. We do up equal to
nfew Discolored Hair
Brushes, 2s.
Mirrors, Pure Silver,
Velvet Back, 255.
All Silver, £2, £2 10s, £B.
A. SAUNDERS.
Flower Stands, Silver-plated
Red Glass, 12s 6d pair.
Jams, Pure Silver-plated, Chased, Green or
Eed Glass, as above, 16s 6d ; round, Pis 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Knife Rests, Cut Glass, Pure Silver Mounted,
15s 6d, in Silk-lined Case.
Lunch or Dinner Cruet.
First-class Pure Silver-plated, 21s.
Similar Style, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
Butters, Pure Silver on Hard Whitt
Metal, los 6d ; large, 20s.
s
1i
IS
m
X'
A. SAUNDERS.
Sugars, Coal Scuttle. 16s 6d, 20s,
255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Small Gilt Clock, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
Neat and Useful Clock.
&
Butters, Pure Silver-plated, White Glass,
8s 6d ; Bound, XOs.
rM
SB
Toast Rack, Pure Silver-plated,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 16s, 18s 6d, 21s.
Call and See Our Silver-plate and Jewellery Exhibition—A Splendid Display;
OR BEND FOR OUR 1900 COMPLETE ILLUSTRATED
POST FREE ANYWHERE.^
LEADING ART JEWELLER ,
815 & 817 GEORGE ST
NEARLY OPPOSITE CVIUIEY
RAILWAY STATION. O■PH CI ■


THOMSON’S
NEW Model, "GLOVE-FITTING”
CORSETS
ENGLISH MADE throughout.
These World-Renowned Corsets have been entirely Re-
modelled, and are now the Perfection of Shape, and meet
the prevailing fashion of long waist.
m
r
Thom
ONS
THE MOST COMFORTABLE & DURABLE CORSET
MADE; AND THEREFORE THE CHEAPEST
N.B. —Old Model Corsets always in stock.
“LA. RTOBLESSB ”
A New and Elegant Series of Corsets. Ask to see them.
TO BE HAD OP ALL DEALERS
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Mfrs- W- S- Thomson & Go-) Ld> London-
THE WORD
FOX
is a guarantee of soundness of
Material and Qualify of D/e of all
Worsted
Coatings,
Serges^TweeHs
on which it is stamped.
fox’s pure Mgo.
As the result of many years of ex
perience, FOX’S PURE INDIGO
DYE is recognised as the best
in the Market.
All Fox’s standard cl . .ii.s are
stamped every two yards on the
back ....
FOX’S PURE INDIGO,
and without this stamp aie not
genuine.
fox Brothers & Co., £td.,
Wellington, Somerset, €ntf.
Makars of Worsted Coatings, Vicunas,
Sergos, Twaads, Tennis and Costume
Cloths. Contractors to the English
Admiralty, War Office, India Office, Crown
Colon as, and Metropolitan Police.
THEIR MILLS are capable of an
annual production of 2,000,000 yards of
material, and find emyloyment for 1,200
hands. Reliable records show that the
business at Wellington was founded
early in the eighteenth centurjr, and the
present .Company have in their posses-
sion a balance sheet dated 1733.
$
These celebrated Serges can be obtained
from the leading Tailors and Drapers
throughout the Australian Colonies.
Australian Agents for the Wholesale
Trade only :—
S7OGDALE & DUFFUS,
326, Flinders Lane, Melbourne
AND
422, George Street, Sydney.
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Vytol
Ib a restorative and physical
regenerator of magic puwer. A
bfi ken-down or weakened sys-
tem rejuvenated Vytol acts
on the nerves, bruin & blood,
quickly a permanently restor-
ing to the sufferer the lost vim,
energy, strength and vigor of
youth. Pi icv posted, 7/6 lio.cke,
Ton insit t & Co., Druggi ts, 292
Fhnders-street W., Melbourne.
Pamphlet, Testimonials, &c., sent Feee.
DRUNKENNESS!
DR. MALING’S REMEDY
Is Guaranteed to Cure the WORST CASE of DRUNKEN-
NESS. Harmless, INEXPENSIVE, HOME TREATMENT.
Can be given secretly in food or drink. This remedy is
endorsed by Sydney’s leading physicians. Write for
Pamphlet and Testimonials, or call and see ORIGINAL
Letters of Thanks from WELL-KNOWN CITIZENS.
Addlfeas—MAUNO RSMEDY C 0„
S 8 Eillzatnth-itreet. SYDNEY.
THE
PLUM
Price—SINGLB RAZOR, 10a. od. ; or with Ivory
Handle, 15a. PAIR RAZORS in Double Leather
Case, 21s. ; or with Ivory Handles, 30s. Plum Razor
Strop, 7s. 6d. each. This Razor is superior to any
in the market, and never requires grinding. WE
GUARANTEE EACH RAZOR FOR TWO YEARS .
Post tree to any part of the colonies. Add exchange to Country and Intercolonial Cheques.
CRA.I& «Sz AITBZEIXr, 680 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
BALL & WELCH
PROPRIETARY, Ltd.,
DRAPERS * FURNISHERS,
M€LBOURN€.
MELBOURNE:
Opp. Flinders St. Station.
CARLTON, CASTLEMAINE.
Basinghall Avenue, London E.G.
Illustrated Catalogues and
Patterns sent Post Free on
application.
MOIR’
POTTED MEATS.
(Assorted kinds) in Tins about 2 ozs. & 4 ozs.
Manufacturers:
JOHN MOIR & SON, LIMITED,
LONDON, ABERDEEN, & SEVILLE.
Head Office— 9 & 10, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.
MERCHANTS !
WHY push
“other fellows’” Coupons
When you can PUSH YOUK, OWN
by using the ....
national Cash Register Coupons
: >
In place of paying the “ other fellow” Five Pounds weekly,
and advertising his business, you can issue your own
Coupons at a next-to-nothing cost !
mzm.
It is a well-known fact that
half the Coupons issued by
the Storekeepers are never
returned.
WHO gets the benefit of this ?
You or the “ other fellow” ?
This is worth your serious
consideration, and it will
pay you to investigate the
HATIOWAL
Cash Register
COUPON SYSTEM.
Pull particulars on application to . » ■
National Cash Register Co.
335 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
W. A. LINGHAM, General Manager for Australasia,
ladies’ Tailoring
-SPRING-
NEW SELF SHADES
IN
Meltons, Venetians & Sergerettes.
LATEST DESIGNS
IN
Fancy Worsteds and Check Tweeds.
Latest Novelties will arrive by each ln«
coming: Mailboat throughout
the Season.
David Braham & Go.,
Tailors and Habit Makers,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Between George & York Streets).
>
'
T*ught by Correspondence.
EASY TO LEARN.
SUCCESS CERTAIN*
Satisfaction given,
or
Fee Returned.
Popular Prices.
Send for Prospectu*.
etc., Free.
Inquiry solicited.
PROF. BROWN,
42 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
TESTIMONIALS.
Mr. W. LAKE, Student, Hobart—“ By its aid I can
now do with ease and certainty that which was almost
impossible. I find it a WONDERFUL HELP in learning
languages.”
Mr. A. H. Brown, Constitution Hill, Tas.—“ History
with its dates was always my dread in exams., but by
your system I have gained 92 per cent, of the possible in
it. I also used it in geography, Latin, &c., with equally
good results. It is easily learned, and cannot be for-
gotten.”
Rev. W. E. BROMILOW, New Britain. —“ It has greatly
strengthened my natural memory. By it I learnt the
almanac for the year in about two minutes, andean give
instantly the day of any date, and vice versa. Its use
must be of great assistance to students.”
“ COMMON SENSE EAR DRUM”
t<:m
DEAF
COMPLETELY restore the
Hearing and relieve sing-
ing, roaring, and buzzing noises
in the ears. Many have been
benefited after trying every
other- remedy. Testimonials
from all the colonies. Send a
post-card to-dav for illustrated
book, free. Address,
J. CHALMERS,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
Dr. Box well’s
FAMOUS
pr-
SILENT PILLS.
ATON-POISONOUS, HARMLESS, ALWAYS EFFEC-
TIVE. A Sure Friend, dispelling Misery, Suspense,
and Anguish by affording Immediate Relief. Sold by all
Chemists in Australia or can be sent anywhere. Price,
5/6 per box. Purchasers can rely on the fact that
these Pills are the Formula of a Skilled Expert— Dr.
Boxwell having been for y r ears Physician to the Woman’s
Hospital, London. Agents for Dr. Boxwell’s Silent Pills,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Druggists,
292 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Publications.
TRICOLOR
A Study ot BALDNESS and
FALLING HAIR, by Dr.
ALFRED NEALE, Posted 7d.
SKIN DISEASES
and their Treatment.
Posted Is. Id.
Publishers: Turner and Henderson, SYDNEY.
LADIES-
WRITE FOR VALUABLE FREE BOOK
CONCERNING YOURSELVES.
Address— L.D.l., 300 Collins St., Melbourne.
Books. Books. Books.
"POPULAR EDUCATOR in 6 Vols., £5 for £1 ss. The
-*• .Home Physician, £2 10s. for £l. Chambers’
Encyclopaedia, hound half calf, up-to-date edition, £7 10s.
for £2 15s. Webster’s Large Dictionary, 119 S edition,
£3 10s. for £l. History of Australian Bushranging,
Is. 3d. I have three very choice books, illustrated. Can
only be procured from me by post, Is. 6d. each. All
books sent post free. Mention this paper.
R.W. SKINNER SECOND-HAND BOOK ARCADE,
105 Castlereagh street, Sj dney.
FOREIO-M STAMPS.
r PO STA'Cr
'AUSTRALIA'
§2 O
HEAP SETS.—24 Cuba, Is 6d ;
40 Japan, Is 6d ; 11 Canada,
; 16 Heligoland, Is ; 8 Bosnia,
; 4 Tientsin, 3d ; 12 India Tele-
graphs, 6d ; 3 Victoria Queen on
Throne, 7s ; 8 Egypt, 6d : 11 Por-
tugal, 6d ; lOßulgaria,6d ; Gibbons
PriceCatalogueof Postage Stamps,
part 1., 2s 3d. Stamps purchased.
Catalogues of Albums, Packets, etc.,gratis. CHARLES
B. DON NE, 346 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Post Free for One Stamp.
Madame Panza,
BOX 913, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
Of RARE
BOOKS.
BOOKLET
I
LLUSTRATED
ITT.XJSTRATED
- \y\7ITII numerous anatomical
’ V colored plates and engrav-
ings, A NEW MEDICAL GUIDE.
Every man should read it, and
know the grand truths, the plain
facts and new discoveries in MED-
ICAL SCIENCE, and thus avoid
being imposed upon by ignorant
Medical pretenders. Price ‘2s.
Circular, explaining contents
of hook, sent on receipt of 2d.
„ „ , (stamps) foi postage.
Address, PRIVATE, Box 462, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
p
lAIR GIRLS AND GRAY
2nd Edition. Price 4/6.
HORSES.


The PUREST WHISKEY
in the World . . •
geo. Roe# go.
JOHN MEAGHER & CO.,
Australasian Representatives, -
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
mmm
o '\r\r\r's\/\/ > S
GO TO HELL-
HiO[,A NI) for Pretty Stumps, but
if you want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei),
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTER,
74 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Australian Stamps bought, price-
lists gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk STRIPE
Mattalaspk and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33! i» r HalJ-dozeu, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurement Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE Si SONS, Brisbane Q'land.
D«MACKENZIE’S
ARSENICAL SOAP
For a
Charming
Complexion
Used by the
Elite of
English
Society.
S. Harvey, Ltd.,
London, S.E.
Important Announcement to our City and Country
Constituents.
WALTER BRADLEY # CO.,
Furniture and Fine Art Auctioneers,
Auction Booms, 324 George Street, Sydney,
Have always on hand
FOR AUCTION &. FOR PRIVATE SALE
Well-made Furniture, Pianofortes, Pictures,
Organs, Carpets, Glassware, China, Electro-
plate, and Works of Art.
Auction Sales, in the City or Country, conducted by
Mr. Bradley, assisted by a competent staff.
Sales Held at the Auction Rooms.
Cash Advanced on Goods for Unreserved Sale-
Valuations and Inventories carefully prepared.
Walter Bradley & Co., 324 George-st
POLITICAL
POINTS
Reid avoids Barton as though he were the
Bogey-man.
Surely it is not intended to proclaim the
Commonwealth on 26th January, “the Day We
Were Lagged ” !
S.A. Labor-party takes a plebiscite Aug.
29 to select two Senate and three House of Repre-
sentative candidates.
Teetotalism is having a bad time at
N.S.W. bye-elections. Cold-tea candidates went
under in Philip-division, Bathurst and Canter-
bury.
Up to now, no man whose services would
be worth anything in the Federal Parliament has
publicly indicated that he aspires to hold simul-
taneously a seat in the State legislature.
Quite a storm arose in S.A. Assembly last
week, owing to the discovery that Treas. Holder,
by including the Brookman gift of £15,000 to S.A.
School of Mines in his revenue receipts, had
turned a deficit into a surplus. Although Holder
claimed precedent for his action, it looked at one
time as if the proceeding would produce a no-
confidence motion, and that is not unlikely even
yet.
IN TOPHET.
EX-PUBLICAN: “ Halloo I What brought you here?”
EX-BREWER'S MAN: “Oh! I was drowned in a vat of beer.”
EX-PUBLICAN: “Breathe on me!”
All the lawyers in S.A. Parliament, save
only Attorney-General Gordon, are in opposition
to the Holder Govt. These are Stirling (the Tory
leader in the Council), Glynn, Homburg, Von
Doussa, and John Downer.
The Austral-S’African warriors are gradu-
ally being absorbed in the Rhodesian and Trans-
vaal police; and the N.S.W. Govt., though it
wants policemen, is holding open vacancies in the
force for returned troopers from the Transvaal.
Every Australian soldier has a (hob jy s) aon m
his knapsack.
Price, M.P.. leader of S.A. Labor Party,
asserts publicly that he has never before seen so;
much “ lobbying” as there has been in connection
with a certain Electric Tramways Bill, and it is.
suggested that if only a list of those who
“expect ” to become shareholders were made
public there would he surprises !
Cabled that N.S.W. Agent-General Cope-
land has “expressed strong disapproval of Mr.
Cecil Rhodes’ scheme to introduce Chinese into
Rhodesia.” An interesting side-light on the
Rhodesian legend.
Queensland member Newell spent some
time t’other night in describing to the House the
benevolent nature of syndicates. Numbers of
men, he explained, combine with one common
end. Just so : Divid-end.
Let there be no delay in making the State
politicians understand that they cannot go for
two seats —that they must drop the State bone if
they aspire to the Federal joint—that National
politics are one thing and State ditto quite
another. “Reign in Hell—serve in Heaven”:
these are the alternatives for such people.
The Lyne Cabinet is about equally divided
on the question of one-man-one-seat in the ap-
proaching dual Parliamentary era. Lyne and
O’Sullivan think they are good enough for seats
both Federal and local, but Crick and Hassall are
for each man sitting on one stool. Slight pres-
sure from the House will force action.
The Brisbane crowd that met delegate
Dickson at the railway-station was certainly not
enthusiastic over that gentleman’s return, and was
even disposed to be uncomplimentary. It is said,
by the way, that Dickson is to be the Govt. Fede-
ral candidate for Brisbane division. It may be
safely predicted that his coruscations won’t
dazzle the Federal-Assembly.
Among the many holes through which
N.S.W.’s good money has dropped, the vote to
the Municipal Charities- Association seems about
the meanest. In four years the M.C. Ass. got
£1025 from the Treasury and spent it all in
salaries and expenses. It also raised £BB from
the public, of which £3l went on charity and £57
in salaries and expenses. This subsiding of self-
constituted he and she cats to inquire into
the troubles of their fellow-creatures and then
leave them just where they were is a small and
miserable Paul Pryism.
A page of unre-
corded history. J. B.
Patterson was returned
to Vic. Assembly at
the ’B6 general election
with the avowed inten-
tion of dishing the
Gillies - Deakin Minis-
try. Gillies’ huge bribes
to the constituencies in
the form of railways,
waterworks, and pros-
pecting votes under his
boom-budget made that
an impossibility for the
time being ; and the
Govt, introduced a Bill
providing for a redis-
tribution of the elector-
ates, which, if carried
as proposed, would have
unseated Patterson at
next election. The re-
sourceful J. 8., up to
that time the most
active member of Op-
position, suddenly
changed front, and sup-
ported the Govt, on the
stock-tax, his vote sav-
ing it from defeat. As
a reward, the proposed
redivision of electorates
was amended to suit
him, and he was taken
into the Ministry as
Postmaster-General and
Minister of Customs.
But the reconciliation
was compulsory, and
Patterson got even with
his “ friends.” Under
threat of breaking up
the Ministry if they did
not agree to his views,
he obliged them to call
out the military for the
suppression of the mari-
time strike, and, as a
consequence, theGillies-
Deakin administration
was hurled from office a
few weeks later.
The difference be-
tween political and
judicialsusceptibility to
friendly influence was
well illustrated in a late
application by an ex-
solicitor to be re-en-
rolled by N.S.W. Full
Court. The ex-solicitor,
who is an M.L.A., pro-
duced the signatures of'
113 M.’sP. backing his
application. If Parlia-
ment had had the power
to re-enrol such a round
robin would have settled the matter,
It took Tasmania’s Leg. Council just about
five'minutes to decide that the proposal to have
Q ne ]yj an One Vote at Assembly elections was a
subversion of the Sacred Rights of Property, and
the good old .plural vote was promptly re-inserted,
Still, it was only done by eight against seven, and
if there had been any real fight among the seven
it needn’t have been done at all.
Brisbane Govt, organs eternally wail about
| ; ] ie loquacity of Labor members and suggest the
introduction of a drastic closure system. They
wax particularly eloquent on this theme whenever
the Democrats attempt stonewalling such a
scheme as the Callide railway bill. But when the
Pliilpocracy shuts up Parliament seven months of
the year and adjourns a big part of the other five,
never a word of complaint comes from the
Courier and all its country kin.
A BLOKE.
1ST MOOCHABOUT : “ Who's this ’ere Common-
wealth Bill I hears all the talk about? ”
2ND. DO : “ I dunno; but I suppose it must be
one of them wounded blokes back from the
war.”
South Australia has been trying to pass a
Boilers Inspection Bill for something like 20
years, but the Leg. Council Tories, most of whom
own businesses, have blocked the measure. Re-
cently an ancient, up-country boiler exploded, and
half the township is still in the air. Following
week a septuagenarian boiler somewhere else
struck work and killed an engineer. Parliament
is now again thinking it over.
Five members of the Lyne Govt.—Lyne,
Wise, See, O’Sullivan, and Crick —will be candi-
dates for the Federal Parliament. Lyne pro-
mises to go for the Hume division, O’Sullivan will
be a candidate for the Senate, Crick will contest
the Bathurst-Blayney-Cowra electorate, Wise will
look to the metropolitan railway-line suburbs for
a seat, and See will go for the Grafton side. Three
of them may find Federal foothold.
Premier Lyne, who seeks to represent the
Border electorate (including Albury) in the
Federal Parliament, is really in a tight place. If
he is not solid on Albury as the Federal capital
then he must look elsewhere for a seat, and if he
is sound re Albury’s ambition, then he must look
for no quarter from the fierce jealousy of pretty
well all the rest of N.S.W.—and Lyne cannot
afford to make himself an unpopular provincial
politician.
S.M. Herald, arguing on Wise’s Arbitra-
tion Bill, sympathises with the 280,000 N.S.W.
workers who will be dragooned into union by
the 20,000 trades-unionists. First, how does the
Herald make up this 280,000? Second, does not
everyone know that non-union workers are, as a
body, the most down-trodden and impoverished
in civilisation ? A rise of even a shilling a week
will be better for them than oceans of Herald
sympathy.
How the latest N.S.W. Govt, fake came
about is clear. The Freetrade pressmen appointed
assistant paymasters (at £1 a day) to China con-
tingent looked after Waverley and Rand wick dis-
tricts for their respective papers. A certain very
influential politician lives at-Randwick. The two
reporters were not unfriendly and worked-in with
each other. One conceived the notion, suggested
it to t’other, both set influence going, and hey
presto ! the thing was done.
The bond of affection between Works
Minister O’Sullivan and the N.S.W. Railway
Commissioners grows beautifully less. One after
another The O’Sullivan’s railway proposals form
the subject of withering reports furnished by the
Commissioners whereupon the Minister dumps
the reports down before the House, says “ I don’t
believe a bit of it,” and passes the business on to
the Works Committee. The O’S. alone knows
why, in the circs., he troubles the Commissioners
at all.
S.A. Leg. Council somewhat unbent last
week and passed the second reading of the Holder
Govt.’s Household Suffrage Bill by a majority of
seven. Hardshell Tories like Stirling and E. T.
Smith actually voted with the Govt. The success
is only looked upon by Liberals as temporary, for
the Tory majority in the Council intends to
mutilate the measure in committee, and the main
proposal in the Bill, the conferring of the suffrage
upon occupiers of houses of two rooms and up-
wards, lias no chance of being carried in the
Council as at present constituted.
South Australia has decided to abandon
her communistic village-settlements —there are
seven of them—on the Murray, and no further
advances are to be made after 31st December,
1900. In future the 513 settlers, of whom 418 are
women and children, will be left to their own de-
vices. These settlements have received in State
advances, £85,538, of which but £9490 has been
repaid, and a State expert values the existing im-
provements at £B2OO. The settlements were
established by dreamer Cockburn some 10 years
ago. They might have been a success had compe-
tent experts been placed in charge at the outset.
Originally there were 13, but six of them quickly
expired, and the balance are practically in-
solvent. S.A. Govt, now proposes to apportion
the land amongst the 95 adult settlers, who, one
and all, announce that they are very tired of com-
munism.
Tasmanian Lands Minister Mulcahy is in
some trouble. Land settlement in Tassy
has hitherto been conducted in a happy,
indefinite sort of fashion. Some people
buy off the State. Others just go and
squat in little crowds on State lands, and
when settlement comes their way they
say they didn’t know any better, and ask
if it is a fair thing to turn a man out of
the home he has himself created.. As
a rule Tasmanian Lands Ministers simply
left these jumpers in possession on a sort
of indefinite title. It was the easiest
way out of a difficulty. But Mulcahy,
with a reckless desire for order and
system, is trying to suppress this, and
has been putting a lot of illegal State
tenants out on the cold hill-side. And
by ill-luck it was raining when Mul-
eahy’s agents started in to conserve the
interests of the State. The Minister
Erobably gave the order in dry weather,
ut the rain came on afterwards—and a
Minister who throws anybody’s bed and
infant out into the rain, however good his
motives, is bound to be disliked.
N.S.W. Defence Dept., learning
something from the Boer, has adopted
a suggestion which lately came over
from the squattages yound Broken Hill
that rifles and ammunition should be
handed round to small companies of station-hands
and others asking for them on rifle-club terms.
At first sight it would seem necessary to stipulate
that jackeroos and others should not have their
kangaroo-shooting at part-Govt. expense; but,
after all, it is better practice to shoot at
jumping kangaroos or running turkeys than at
motionless targets. The Boers didn’t learn their
marksmanship at targets, anyway.
The first direct vote of censure which has
been moved in the Westralian Assembly since
Responsible Govt, began 10 years ago, hit Bigjohn
in the eye when Parliament met the other day.
It was moved in both Houses simultaneously, and
the old members received it in much the same
spirit as the American Indians did the first
cannon-ball that struck their previously-quiet
continent.
Queensland Premier Philp says that it is
necessary to hand over future railway construc-
tion work to syndicates because the country can’t
borrow any more money just now. dust by way
of something fresh, how would it be for the help-
less Philp to put on an income-tax and construct
railways in a small patient way with the proceeds ?
It is quite as cheap to pay for railway construc-
tion now as to borrow the money and pay the
interest for ever afterwards. One is taking the
cow by the horns and the other by the tail, but
the difference is only the length of the cow
after all.
One William A. Byrne suggests that as a
delicate compliment to the Liberal statesmen at
’Orae who “rendered signal and valuable assist-
ance to our brilliant delegate ” in securing the
passage of the Bill through the Imperial Parlia-
ment the N.S.W. Federal electorates be named
after them. William selects the following in a
communication to S.M. Herald as the most suit-
able : Gladstone, Salisbury, Parnell, Carrington,
Jersey, Morley, and Bannerman. Of the lot,
Parnell was, perhaps, the most useful to Toby
Barton, because he has been dead the longest.
And picture the scorn of the averagely-informed
Cornstalk youth at perpetuating the name of Ban-
nerman and ignoring those of the only Giffen and
Charlie Turner !
The Queensland Government’s anxiety to
suddenly job away a whole lot of land-grant
railway concessions, has a sinister look. By next
year the Federal Parliament will probably be
ready to buy up the railways and undertake the
work of railway construction itself. Even if the
concessions are granted now, syndicates move very
slowly (it has taken the Tas. Great Western
syndicate five years to start 20 men digging a
small hole), and the Federal Parliament, if left to
itself, would probably get a real start at the
Normanton-Cloncurry railway and other really
important lines long before the syndicates would
have the first pick in the ground. Most of the
syndicates'are probably only rushing for con-
cessions in the hope that the Federal Parliament
will buy them out, and'the policy of thus
systematically heaping up embarrassments for the
Commonwealth, is stinkful, treacherous, and
disgraceful.
“ MIGHT IS RIGHT.”
KRUGER: “I tell you I did trust to a Higher
Power for aid in this war.”
THE OTHER PIETIST : “ You evidently appealed
to the wrong Power.”


Paling’s
ESTABLISHED 1853
BIOS
Pianos, Organs, and
Musical Instruments
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION
Save Money by Purchasing
a Reliable and Perfect Piano, such as the
following, which are constructed of the
Best-seasoned Materials, and have the
Most Improved Actions, and, further-
more contain
MODERN IMPROVEMENTS
IN CONSTRUCTION.
STEINWAY
BRINSMEAD
L | P P (the Genuine R. Lipp & Sohn)
UEBEL & LECHLEITER
JULIUS FEURICH
CARL ECKE
GORS & KALLMAN
THE VICTOR and
“ BELLING.”
W. H. Paling&Co., Ltd.
PALING & CO., Ltd.,
are able to give the Best Value owing to the
immense number they sell. Their present
enormous trade is owing to wonderful
value, also to the fact that the Pianos give
unusual satisfaction, even in most trying
parts of Queensland. Pianos may be
bought for Cash, or are supplied to any
part of the Colony on Easy Time Payment,
from 20s. monthly.
PALING & CO.’S
usually immense Stock has lately been
augmented by the arrival of several large
shipments, and is now exceptionally
complete.
LOWEST PRICES
HIGHEST QUALITY
BEST RESULTS
7»&
Jh
Y
cmAW,
rXFAOS
me
338 George Street, Sydney.
SEND
EOR
EREE
CATALOGUES
Unquestionably
the Cheapest
House for
Pianos, Organs,
and all.
Musical Goods
SOLE AGENTS for
STEINWAY PIANOS
BRINSMEAD PIANOS
LIPP PIANOS
FEURICH PIANOS
UEBEL PIANOS
ECKE PIANOS
VICTOR PIANOS
CELLING PIANOS
ESTEY . ORGANS
Quality the Best
Price the Lowest.
BAND AND
ORCHESTRAL .
INSTRUMENTS
VIOLINS
CORNETS
BANJOS
GUITARS
MANDOLINS
ACCORDEONS
CONCERTINAS
MOUTH ORGANS
&c., &c.
Everything and
Anything Musical.
V.EASY TIME PAYMENTS^
Our prices will prove to you the advantage of
placing your orders with us . . .
w.
H.
PALING * Co. 1™
338 George Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE AND NEWCASTLE.
The Colonial Office Blue-book on Aus-
tralian Federation shows that Chief-Justice
Lieut.-Gov. Madden made a protest against being
asked by Chamberlain to send per cable newspaper
opinions re the Clause 74 controversy. Madden,
m his cabled reply, said he would have preferred
to express no opinion on the subject. This was
evidently the right attitude, and does the Chief-
Justice credit. The opinions he cabled were those
of the Age, Argus, Australasian and Leader—
as though these were the only organs of opinion in
Victoria, when indeed they merely represent the
views of two wealthy newspaper-proprietaries,
both of which studiously boycott all opinion that
does not suit themselves.
The powerful civil service vote will have
great weight in the N.S.W. Federal elections,
and the successful candidates for both East and
West Sydney (Toorawal and Warrang) will have
to study it. Ex-Premier Reid, who has lost the
confidence of the Service, moved ah amendment
on the Lyne Harbor Trust Bill in committee, that
in appointing employes to the Trust preference
should be given to those already employed by
Govt. He gave no reasons, but forced a division
without discussion. Of course his motion was
lost, but Reid’s object was gained. He is the real
friend of the Service, he will say, quoting this
incident. But N.S.W. Public Service has not yet
forgotten or forgiven 1895.
The personal nature of the disputes of
Lyne and Wise v. Reid are making things very
unpleasant for the higher public servants in
Sydney. In the wrangle as to whether the ex-
Premier did or did not muddle up his finances
to the extent of a few odd millions, each side
confidently appeals to one or another Govern-
ment officer. The Lyne crowd appeals con-
fidently to one Martin, who is now Lyne’s
official authority on finance. Mr. Martin was
under T. A. Coghlan in the Statist’s office before
going over to the Treasury, where he is right-
nand man to the Minister. In the recent
inquiry over the Public Accounts, Martin’s
figures were pro-Lyne down to the last penny,
though he was only giving public figures, the
same figures any other public officer would have
had to produce. Ex-Premier Reid roundly
states that Martin is simply anti-Reid and
juggled the figures accordingly, while if the
Commission had called Coghlan, he says, the
thing would have worked out differently. An-
other grievance of his was that the Commission
didn’t call Mr. George Brodie, the deputy-
Auditor-General in Reid’s time; the evidence
Brodie should have given was entrusted to one
Pitt —one of the Treasury Inspectors—a subordi-
nate of Mr. Brodie’s. Again, Reid makes out that
Pitt is pro-Lyne, while Brodie would have given
evidence in support of the Reid figures. When
the Premier asked for a report from the head of
the Charities Dept, on the inner workings of the
Metrop. Charities’ Association, the ex-Premier
declared that Mr. Hanson, acting under orders,
had attempted to besmirch his (Reid’s) public
acts. He denounced Mr. Hanson at a public
meeting as unfit to discharge the duties of his
office, because he used them for the political pur-
poses of the party in power. The public servants
naturally don’t at all relish this sort of thing.
They care little enough who is the upper dog for
the moment, and object to even appear in the
ructions between the various contending parties.
They know well enough that the balance of power
will one day change, and that the outs will
be in, so they don’t like it. It smacks too
much of the American political system, as de-
picted in the English press.
On a matter of much Australian historical
interest, “ Waranee ” writes:
In referring to the death of the late Father Dunne, of
Albury, The Bulletin stated that it was at his house that
the late Peter Lalor sought refuge after the defeat of the
Eureka stockaders. This is incorrect. The circumstances,
as related by Mrs. J. P. Kelly, of St. Kilda, Melbourne,
who is still living, are as follows : Late one evening Lalqr
arrived in Geelong, concealed under some loose straw in
a dray. The cart was driven to a cottage occupied bv
Miss Dunne (Lalor’s betrothed) and Mrs. Kelly (then Miss
M. T. O’Connor), both teachers at St. Mary’s Catholic
school, Geelong. _ Here the fugitive remained for about
three weeks, during which time Miss Dunne dressed his
terrible wound (in the arm), being afraid to call in a
doctor. When, however, Father Dunne came to know of
the matter he was very much annoyed, and said Lalor
would have to be removed. Miss Dunne then arranged
with a Geelong doctor to take the patient to his private
house, where he soon became convalescent. Mrs. Kelly,
who is the only survivor of those concerned, wishes it to
be known that Father Dunne in no way countenanced the
hiding of Lalor. Father Dunne was then in receipt of a
Govt, pension, and it would not have been honorable of
him to hide Lalor, who was technically a “ rebel,” and for
whose capture had been offered a reward of £5OO.
JIFE HAS NO CHAItMS TO THOSE IN
BAD HEALTH.
Take WEBBER’S
VITADATIO
Pain and Suffering Disappearing.
To Mr. S. A. Palmer, 6th May, 1900
Vitadatio Institute, Bourke-st., Melbourne.
Dear Sir, —In November, 1898, I was seized with a
violent attack of muscular rheumatism in the left arm
and side, which continued getting worse, until I could
not straighten my arm, also could not get any sleep. I
was attended by a doctor, and received no benefit there-
from. I also tried many other remedies, which did me no
good. About the end of March I was advised to try
“ VITADATIO, ’’ and I did so. lam glad to say that after
taking a few doses I began to get better, and now, after
four bottles, I am cured, and I feel quite “A New Man.”
I am sending this testimonial, and wish you to make the
best use you can of it,, as I wish others who are in the
same condition that I was to try Vitadatio, and get cured.
WILLIAM SIMMONDS.
Warren-road, Caulfield. Witness, F. J. Wooster.
JOSEPH HOPKINS, LONGFORD, TASMANIA.
Mr. W. Webber. June, 1899.
Sir,—l was very much troubled with Liver Complaint,
and after taking three bottles of Vitadatio I was a different
man. I highly recommend it to anyone suffering from
the same complaint.—Yours truly,
JOSEPH HOPKINS, Longford, Tasmania.
The Price of the Medicine is
Large Size, 3d; Small Size, 3s 3d.
Indian Oil of Cream, 2s 3d.
S. A. PALMER,
Sole Distributor for Australasia,
India, Ceylon and Japan.
Head Office: 184 Pitt St., Sydney.
W. WEBBER, Launceston, Tasmania,
Sole Proprietor.
US'ASK YOUR GROCER or CHEMIST for it.
Correspondence Invited. Write for Testimonials.
"Mis
//i
A
mm
SPEEO&
0u(?«3i- r
'DUNLOP
rypeg.
V
wey
w
'Eagles Wmps \
DUNLOP
TYR
Soar high
BtSW VRB OP IMITATIONS.
Duniqp Tyres
. «*n'y /feniiftc ' *hsv
►fir ttyf/ irjJv -.-
FIRST IN iSSH. ,FORI.«OST FAFR sINCK.
The Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. of Australasia Limited,
150 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
Ana at Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


Banking. Publio Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. —.
LOWEST INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
BILLS
DISCOUNTED.
nxr.s/w.
(|)ont deplete Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre)
74 CASTLEREACrH ST., 74
* SYDNEY
EUSTACE BENNETT, Manager.
City Mutual Life
Assurance Society
Limited. . . .
Offices:
HUNTER & BLIGH STS.,
SYDNEY.
MARKET ST., MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE.
With 500 Branches and Agencies.
The Most Liberal and Progressive Life
Office in Australia.
OEO. CROWLEY,
Manager.
ESTABLISHED 1879.
Ocean
A ccident
and
Guarantee
Co. TAd. of Tjonrlon;
Fidelity Guarantees. I'inip. Ijia»n.».y.
I Accidents, Typhoid, Diphtheria, e«c.
Directors : W. M'Millan, A. W. Meeks, Sydney ; L. A.
Jessop, Adelaide.
Melbourne, D. Clyne ; Adelaide, W. N. M'Farlane ;
Brisbane, J. 0. Hassall ; Perth, A. W. Farquhar ; Wel-
lington, N.Z., C. M. Montefiore.
J. J. ALLEN, Manager for Australia,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
--THE-
Colonial Mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities with-
out Mutual Liability.
Offices • - 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors:
Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman; Hon. C. J. Roberts,
C.M.G., M.L.C.; Bruce Smith, Esq.
Resident Secretary : A. Ross Miller.
Accumulated Funds, £2,385,266.
Policies issued 82,600—assuring £25,174,851.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £2,358.325.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses—equitably distributed.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
LESLIE J. PARK, A.1.A., General Manager.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Rend Office —GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund...
Reserve Liability
1,950,000 0 0
1,200,000 0 0
1,950,000 0 0
Total 6,100,000 0 0
Directors:
James Thomas Walker. Esq. , President.
Reginald James Black, Esq.
William Alfred Cottee, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Charles K. Mackellar, M.L.O.
Hon. Henßy Norm and MacLaurin, M.L.C.
Auditors:
J. S. Harrison, Esq. F. W. Uther, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the Uniied States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
T,ie Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf m
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the agency of other banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes and letters of credit, and conducts all customary
banking business. ,
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East. '
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability
£1,000,000 0 0
1,010,000 0 0
1,000,000 0 0
£3,010,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward Knox, Chairman ; G. J. Cohen, Esq.,
Deputy -Chairman ; Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. ; Hon.
Henry Moses, M.L.C. ; Hon. Richard Jones, M.L.C.;
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., General Manager.
Auditors :
W. L. Docker and E. S. Cape.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T A Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: Sir J. A. You], K.C.M.G; F. H.
Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Lsq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton. Manager, Nathaniel Cork.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agenoies throughout the world.
Shipping.
THE HOWARD SMITH LINE.
TO
West & South Australian,
Victorian & Queensland Ports.
For MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PORTLAND
WARRNAMBOOL
Leura, Sat., Sept. 1, 1 p.m.
Tyrian, Sat., Sept. 8, 1 p.m.
ADELAIDE
WALLAROO
PORT PIRIE
PORT AUGUSTA
Konoowarra, Tues., Sept. 4, 5 p.tn.
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
Buninyong, Tues., Sept. 11, 5 p.m.
(No Transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
ROCKHAMPTON
BUNDABERG
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 1, 2 p.m.
Burwah, Tues., Sept. 4, 5 p.m.
Leura, Saturday, Sept. 8, 2 p.m.
GLADSTONE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Peregrine, Sat., Sept. 1, 2 p.m.
Lenra, Sat., Sept. 8, 2 p.ra.
LUCINDA POINT
GERALDTON
CAIRNS. &c.
Lass o’ Qowrie, from Townsville
weekly. Passengers and Cargo
booked through.
Lowest Current Fares and Freights to all Ports.
Return Tickets Available for Six Months.
Passengers Tickets interchangeable with all other Inter-
colonial S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
Offices Mutual Life Buildings, corner George and
Wynyard Streets.
Wharves—Foot of King-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Tb« Tr(ist€€s, CxccCitorS,
AND
Conjpaoy Linjitcd,
ESTABLISHED 1878.
CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED £150,000 0 0
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0. 0
RESERVE LIABILITY £150,000 0 0
Amount at Credit of Estates, Trusts, .
and Clients, Slst December, 1899 ... £6,277,747 11 3
Insolvency Department, Mr. L. I. Barker registered
trustee.
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., M.L.A., Vice Chairman ; John Grice,
Esq.; C. M. Officer, Esq.; Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
No. 412 Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Branch: Equitable Buildings, George Street.
Four per cent. Stock guaranteed by New
Zealand Government .. .. 2,000,000
Preference Shares subscribed for by New
Zealand Government. .. .. 500,000
AmountofCapitalpayableby Shareholders 500,000
Total Capital .. .; £3,000,000
Queensland Smelting Campy.
(LIMITED),
Aldershot, Maryborough.
TDUYERS and SMELTERS of Gold, Silver, Lead, and
Copper Ores, Auriferous Concentrates and Pyrites,
etc. For tariff, ap ly to GEO. V. S. DUNN. Manager,
Melbourne Office, 52 Market-street; or to the MANAGERS,
Aldershot, Queensland.
—THE—
Commeicial Bank of Australia
(LIMITED).
Registered Capital .. .. £4.500.W00 0 0
Paid-up Capital (23 4 ’ool .. £3.196,353 0 0
Directors :
Robert Harper, Esq., Chairman; Archibald Currie,
Esq., J.P.; Hon. W. H. Embling, M.L.C. ;
Hon N. Thornley, M.L.C.
General Manager : Henry Gyles Turner, J.P.
Cm ee Inspector : H. L. Heron.
Inspectors: R. M. M'Nicol, and Alban Hill.
Assistant Inspector : C. H. Tranter.
Head Office: Collins Street. Melbourne.
Manager: Edward Smith.
Assistant Manager: Arthur Walker.
Accountant: E. C. O. Howard.
London Office: 1 Bi.shopsr/ate Street Within
(corner of Leadenhall Street, E C.)
Bankers : The London City and Midland Bank Ltd.
N'tW SOUTH wales:
SYDNEY - 273 GEORGE STREET.
Acting Manager : J. R. Legoe.
Accountant: N. S. Bell.
Haymarket, Gosford with agency at Wyong), New-
castle ; with Branches throughout Victoria, South
Australia. Western Australia, and in Brisbane.
WICTORIA GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
* DEBENTURES.
The SAVINGS BANK COMMISSIONERS open TEN-
DERS on the SECOND MONDAY in each month for
MORTGAGE BONDS, bearing interest at THREE per
cent. Tender forms and conditions supplied at all
SAVINGS BANKS in Victoria.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The savings bank in victoria
HAS MONEY TO LEND
at FOUR per cent., in sums of £2OOO to £BOOO, on City
Properties in Victoria,
and £2OOO to £15,000 on BROAD ACRES in Victoria,
FOR FIVE YEARS,
WITH OPTION OF PAYING OFF PART
HALF YEARLY.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Savings Bank, Market-street, Melbourne.
The Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office 16 Bridge Street.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
Mr. A. J. Charker. (Messrs. Burns, Philp&Co. Ltd.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ... ... £700,000
Capital Paid-up ... ...£lOO,OOO
Reserve Liability of Share-
holders ... ... 250,000 ... £350,000
United
THE
iQSCiraiKe Co.
(LIMITED.)
Head Office:
GEORGE
HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise, Hulls
of Vessels, Freights, Passage
Money, etc.
Rates very Low .
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Shipping
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
(Messrs. George Thompson and Co., London).
To Natal, Capetown and London.
(Calling at Plymouth.)
The following magnificent steamers will leave SYDNEY
for NATAL, CAPETOWN, and LONDON as follows
All the above have splendid accommodation, and will
carry a surgeon and stewardess.
Passengers by this route to London will avoid the heat
of the Red Sea.
Only Ist and 3rd-class passengers carried.
Dalyety and. Company, Ltd.,
AGENTS, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
GLAND VIA AMERICA
by the
American A Australian Line
(A. & A. LINK).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:
Tickets are available until used, and Saloon
Passengers can break their 'ourney at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
on the overland journey.
Passengers booked to all parts of America,
Canada and Europe; also Round the World on
most favorable terms.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing
.all other information, apply Union Slenm Ship Co.
of N.Z., Ltd., Equitable Buildings, Ge >rge Street,
next G.P.0., Sydney; Corner Collins and William
Streets, Melbourne ; B. W. Macdonald, 15 Currie Street,
Adelaide ; 8.1.5. N. Co., Brisbane.
“N.D.L.” COMPANY.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL STEAMERS.
. . COMPRISING . . .
95 Ocean and 141 River Steamers with
496,169 Tons Reg.
Mileage Run in 1898, 3,375,400 ; Conveying 161,963
Passengers.
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Naples, Genoa, Southamp-
ton, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Steamer.
Tons
Commander.
Sydney!
11 a.m.
Ade-
laide,
2 p.m.
WILLEHAD
KARLSRUHE ...
*KONIGJN LUISE
DARMSTADT ...
*BARBAROSSA ...
*P. R. LUITPOLD
4761
5057
10566
5012
10769
6288
H. Formes ... Sep. 225ept.29
C. Oesselmann Oct. 20 Oct. 27
M. Eichel ... Nov. 17 Nov.. 24
C. Dewers ...jDec. 1 Dec. 8
F. Mentz ... Dec. 15 Dec. 22
| 1901
H. Walter .. JDec. 29 Jan. 5
*TWIN SCREW STEAMERS.
LEAVING MELBOURNE TUESDAY AFTER SYDNEY.
CHINA STRAITS and NEW CUINEA SERVICE,
via Queensland Ports.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars, see daily
papers, or apply to the Agents,
WEBER LOHMANN & CO., Sydney.
NORD-DEUTSCIIER LLOYD
Business Announcements,
PHILLIPS,
hegal Manager and General Agent.
FINANCE, MINING, INSURANCE-
LUDSTONE CHAMBERS, 352 COLLINS-ST.,
Telephone 2202. MELBOURNE.
IT WILL PAY YOU TO GO THERE.
Follow the footsteps of the wise and buy the Best,
Cheapest, and Most Stylish CLOTHING in. Australia
-LINCOLN, STUART& CO.
' PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
252 & 254 Flinders Street, Melbourne (op. Station).
10,000 ni ces of Woollens to select from.
S' O
si
11
ml!
Our Suit to order at 425.
is- marvellous value, made
from all-wool Tweeds Vi-
cunas, or Serges,fastcolora
is perfect fitting and beau-
tifully finished.
A splendid Suit to order
from any class of material.
£3 3s. To measure, capital
Trousers, very good pat-
terns, 12s* 6d.
Dress Suits, to measure,
£5, Clerical Suits, to mea-
sure, £5.
Riding Breeches, 255.
Riding Habits, &c.
We supply ready-made
Men's Capital Tweed Suits
215., 255.
Famous Ballarat Serge
i uits, Indigo dye, 255.
r Long Chesterfield Coats
all colors. 30s.
Excellent Tweed or Berge
Trousers, ss. I Id.
All-wool Blue and Black
Vicuna Coats and Vests,
19s. 6d.
Tweed Overcoats. 21s.
Waterproof Coats, full
capes, 15s. 9d. Undressed
White Shirts, linen fronts
and cuffs. 2s. (id., 3s. (id.
4*. (id.. ss* (id
Heavy Warm Travelling
Rugs. 10s (id., 13s. 9d.
All-wool Crimean Shirts,
ss. (id., 7». (id. Travelling
Trunks, Bags in great
variety. Soft Alpine Hats,
4s. (id., all colors.
Hard Hats, 4s. 6d,
Caps, Is.
Merino Undershirts or
Tants Is. 9d.
Neckties, all shapes and colors. Is. White shirts to measure.
Gents’ Splendid Balmoral Boots, 6s. 9d.» 9s. 6d.
We like to write letters, go don’t afraid .o a-«k for any
information. Our book. <• The Philosophy of Dress and
patterns of all kinds and sell-measurement forms posted free
Write for them.
Pair Girls and Gray Horses:
By Will H. Ogilvie. Silk cloth, sills
marker, 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
p OIIT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE,
Transhippingat Fremantle
to all North Western Ports^
S.S. Rockton, Friday,
August 31.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE .
And Ports North to Cairns
S.S. Allinga, Friday,
August 31.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port between Melbourne and Cairns with the
steamers of the A. U.S.N. Co. and VV. Howard Smith and
Sons. For Adelaide and W. A. all tickets are inter-
changeable with the A. U.S.N. Co. only. Subject to con-
ditions to be ascertained on application.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. U. S. N. Ooy. Ltd.
ROYAL MAIL "COASTAL SERVICE.
THE POPULAR PASSENGER LINE.
Despatch their Magnificent Steamships as under.
MELBOURNE and COOKTOYVN MAIL LINE-Weekly,
via Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Bowen, Townsville, Cairns, and Port Douglas.
TOWNSVILLE LOCAL PORTS Weekly.
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON—Bi-weekly, via Ports.
SYDNEY and BURIvETOWN —Every 3 Weeks, via Bris
bane, Townsville, Cooktown, Thursday Island,
and Normanton.'
SYDNEY, NEW CALEDONIA, and FIJI, Monthly.
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE, Weekly.
SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and WEST AUSTRALIA,
Fortnightly. <
P assent/er Accommodation, Attendance and
Cuisine unrivalled.
Saloon passage tickets are interchangeable after the
first port between Melbourne and Cairns with the steamers
of the Adelaide S.S. Company and W. H. Smith and Sons,
subject to conditions to be ascertained on application,
lor Adelaide and YV. Australia all tickets are inter
changeable with the Adelaide S.S. Co. only.
BURNS, PHILP and CO , Ltd., Agents, 10 Bridge
street, Sydney, and Agencies at all Australasian Ports.
P. AND O. COMPANY.
The Royal Mail Steamships of the above Company will
be despatched as follows • -
FOR MARSEILLES AND LONDON,
Touching at the usual Intermediate Ports.
With Permission to call at Brindisi.
***'- ovvwmoio at x' i cm (in Die.
PASSAGE MONEY TO LONDON—Single, £35 to £7O.
Ditto Ditto Return, £65 to £llO.
Return Tickets (Ist Saloon) between intercolonial ports
are available for Return by Orient and Messageries Mari-
tinies’ Steamers having room. Particulars on application
to Mr. EDWARD TRELAYVNY, Superintendent in Aus-
tralia, Exchange Corner. Pitt and Bridge Streets.
ijuddart, Parker & (Jo s tine
—TO —
MELBOURNE, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, WEST AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND POUTS.
Fares and Freights at Lowest Current Rates.
“E. AND A.” COMPANY.
The Steamships of the above Company will be
despatched as follows :
FOR MANILA, CHINA, AND JAPAN.
Touching at Queensland Ports and Port Darwin.
The above steamers were specially built for the Eastern
passenger trade, and are fitted with every convenience,
including Electric Light and Kilbourn’s Patent Refri-
gerator.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Passengers booked through to points in Canada, United
States of America and Europe at special rates.
For further information apply to
GIBBS, BRIGHT and CO., Managing Agents,
3V Pitt-street, Sydney;-
dl‘|lu)raith,(U‘EacharnB Co.
PROP. LTD.,
REGULAR LINE OF STEAMERS.
SAILING WEEKLY
To and From
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
AND
EASTERN COLONIES.
For Specially Reduced Rates, Passage Money,
Stock Rates and Freight Quotations, apply
MMwraith, M'Eacharn & Co. Proprietary Ltd.
Or BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
„ „ Bridge-street, Sydney.
Melbourne address—467 Collins-street.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOUBNE, ADE-
LAIDE, ALBANY, COLOMBO, SUEZ, and PORT SAID,
will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Chit
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £'
including table Vvines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLIS
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon at rival at Marseilles English interpreters im
the passengers for London and give them every assist a r
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custon
et 9;»“""JV? 0 accompany them to Paris and Calais.
RETURN TICKETS (First Saloon) between Int
colonial Ports are available for return by P. and
and Orient'steamers having room.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offic
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE THUY, Principal Agent


Herr RASSMUSSEN S ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
WEAK NERVES, HEALTH and STRENGTH RESTORED MOST EFFECTUALLY.
GENUINE REMEDIES
FOR THE BLOOD, SKIN,
NERVES, LIVER, PILES, etc.
ALFALINE
Vitality Pills
are the most Effectual Remedy of the Century, and are
unequalled as a Permanent and Complete Cure for all
Affections of the Nervous System, Weak Spine and
Brain Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability,
no matter how caused or of how long standing. BOXES,
6s. and 125., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., posted.
Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6d.
Blood Pills
rill cure the Most Obstinate and Constitutional Blood
and Skin Diseases. They remove any Taint or
Poison from the Blood, and eradicate all Blotches and
Sores from the Skin. BOXES, 6s. and 125., posted. This
Remedy is Purely Herbal and entirely free from Mercury.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special Powerful Double
Course, 435. 6d.
ALFALINE
Liver & Kidney Pills.
Unexcelled for Liver and Kidney Complaints, Costiveness,
Indigestion, Flatulency, Wind, Headache, Biliousness,
Fullness after Meals, Want of Appetite, Congestion,
Sluggishness, Constipation, and Weakness.
BOXES, - ONE SHILLING.
AlfalineUniversal Pills
are an Infallible Cure for Purifying the BLOOD and
Strengthening the NERVES, and are especially effectual
for all complaints peculiar to Females, beautifying the
complexion, brightening the eyes, clearing the skin, and
bringing about a youthful appearance.
BOXES, 6s. ; Courses, 235. 6d.
r
Wm.
r*
i
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
THE CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
Discoverer and Proprietor of the Alfaline
Herbal Remedies.
! IMPORTANT
■ ■■WARNING
#*
i Herr Rassmussen
\ anyone of imitating the
| Aljaline Remedies.
IMPORTANT.
Send for HERR RASSMUSSEN’S FREE BOOK,
“ALF ALINE GUIDE TO HEALTH,” which
contains most valuable ADVICE FOR ALL COM-
PLAINTS, and a large number of Testimonials. Sent in Plain Cover unobserved.
REGISTER all your Letters containing Money.
Address your letters to Herr Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Branches or to his Head
ADVK€ FREE.
Office, and make all Cheques or Money Orders payable to Hans RaSSHTUSSen.
A Few of the Alfaline Herbal
Remedies:
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-Guaranteed to cure
Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago. Boxes, posted,
35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d. Valuable Pamphlet sent tree.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills -a Wonder-
ful Remedy for t out-hs, Colds, Consumption, Bronchitis,
and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Fat-reducing Powders- A harmless
but most effectual remedy for transforming the stoutest
and most unshapely figure into that of the most perfect,
resulting not only in the return of Youthful appearance
but also in comfort, improved health, and renewed vigor.
Boxes, 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Headache Tablets— An instant cure
for all kinds of headache, no matter how caused. Is. per
packei. Valuable Pamphlet sent free
Alfaline Flesh-producing Powder— Builds up
and Strengthens the System, Improves the figure and
enlarges the Bust. Boxes, 6s. Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier— A guaranteed
pure and harmless remedy for eradicating Pimples and
Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s. Valuable Pamphlet sent free.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier—A
guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning grey
and falling off, and wonderful for producing rapidly
luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Worm Powders— Destroy and expel any
kind of Worms both in Children and Adults, very
palatable. Packets, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil— Superior to any other
for Goughs, Colds, Bronchitis. Prevents Fevers and
Influenza. Bottles, Is ; posted, Is 6d.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Jujubes -Cure Coughs,
Colds and Influenza. Pleasant to take. Boxes, la;
posted. Is 6d.
Alfaline Corn Cure really Cure Corns, Warts,
and Bunions. Bottles, Is.
Alfaline External Pile Powder— Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Internal Pile Powder Boxes, 6s.
Alfaline Ointment— Boxes, is. and 2s.
Electric Balts— Containing powerful and effectual
Electric currents, unequalled as a cure for all Spinal and
Kidney Affections ; 425. and 635. Send for all particulars.
Alfaline Electric Suspender Bandage— This
suspender imparts Strength and Vigor, at the same time
as it supports the parts Price 215., posted.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Office
547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
BRISBANE : 160 Queen-street (near Creel-street),
MEBBO UUNE ; 150 Bourke-street (opp. Eastern Markets),
ADELAIDE : 15A Bundle-street (near York, Hotel).
N.Z., WELLINGTON : 91 Lambton Quay.
PERTH: Hay-street (opposite Wiedenbach’s).
KALGOORLIE : Hannan-street (next Lindell’s).
BOULDER CITY: Piesse-street.
FREMANTLE ; Henry-street.
It costs N. S. W. Govt. £26 16s. a year to
keep the average prisoner in Biloela goal —the
old island prison in the harbor—as against £156
12s. to keep him in Wilcannia gaol. The labor
cost in the one case is £l3 165.; in the other,
£llB 2s. At Darlinghurst, where more are con-
fined than anywhere else, the cost totals £43 18s. ;
in 1897, though, it got down below £37. Of the
country gaols the least costly to the province is
that at Goulburn. The cost at Berrima has gone
up during the last two or three years from £6l to
£7l. The extension of the cellular system is a
strong factor in raising the cost.
Lord Cecil Manners, if you please, writing
to the—haw!— Morning Post from Pretoria,
where he was a nominal prisoner awhile, stated
that he “tried to look as much like a Boer as
possible” in a “quiet suit of grey flannel,”and
had once (at Bloemfontein) been positively mis-
taken for—haw !—one of them by an intelligent—
ah !—policeman. Which is rather rough on the
early stories of Boer bestiality. Lord Cecil must
be nearly related to that other Lord Mannahs
who immortalised himself in the verse—“ Let laws
and learning, arts and commerce die, But leave us
still our old Nobility. ”
That chain-letter curse. Since Jan., 1897,
no less than 83,000 insufficiently-stamped letters
have been returned to Sydney G.P.O. by Miss
Griffin, of Kogarah.
S. M. Herald is setting its Melbourne
agency in order. Large modifications in the Syd-
ney and Melbourne work will be effected within
a few months, so that the Federal business, may
move smoothly. A bright speculator has tried to
get the Sydney dailies—if not the four, at least two
of them—on a string to work the reports from
Melbourne as the cables are now worked from
London. He shows yards of figures in justifica-
tion. A proposal of another kind emanates from
Melbourne. Both Argus and Age are willing for
due consideration, to wire duplicates of their own
reports over-night and thus obviate the need of a
Sydney staff at headquarters.
HAVE YOU
AMD LEG
witlj Wounds that Discharge or otherwise, perhaps sur-
rounded with inflammation and swollen that when you
finger on the inflamed part it leaves the impres-
-5® n ' !?• ur| der the skin you have poison that defies all
the remedies you have tried, which, if not extracted, you
never can recover, but go on suffering till death releases
r i "?i ps yuur I'nees are swollen, the joints being
ulceiated; the same with the ankles, round which the skin
discoloured, or there may be wounds ; the disease
„„,ii w d t 0 coll t lnue W *U deprive you of the power to
ZtL, , yo “may have attended various hospitals and had
medical advice, and been told your case is hopeless, or
r'lTßk'vnr B T Ub ? I ]i t *o ampnta' ion ; but do not, for I CAN
othfr. 'l 01 ? 1 6a - v perhaps ; but I WILL. Because
Se 11 t<mce*f o ** D ° reasou * or n °t now being cured.
ALBERT'S GRASSHOPPER OINTMENT and PILLS,
which are a certain remedy for the cure of Bad Legs.
“ Knee > Ulcerated Joints, Carbuncles, Poisoned
SSfhi. T^2 Ur »* Abscesse *’ Sore Throat, Bronchitis,
Bunions, and Ringworm. Of all Chemists, Stores
AI'BFRT ’ 1 7Q Gr y at Brdara, l/ljd. per box. Prepared bv
ig L |fs“^L[ 3 lbT F T ar Srt g O d S L p 0 u n r d c o h D asi I, sCl < 5
Breen ?ahei e n reßlSte i. rC h d trad , e TJ mark of the Grasshopper on a
green label on each box. (Rcgd. copyright).
Medical.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
M EDICATOR.
OATARRH is inflammation of the
''- y lining- membrane of the nose
and adjoining passages. If this in-
flammation is not arrested it invades
the passages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the sight and
hearing, destroys the sense of taste
and smell, renders the breath offen-
sive, breaks down the affected
tissues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the small
frontal bones of the skuli. The putrid
discharge passing through the lungs
and stomach causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want relief and
cure ? If so, try our great remedy. It
has no equal.
Ramey’s Medicator
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache, Neuralgia, Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma. Hay Fever, La
Grippe, etc.
Price Complete with Four Months’ treatment by mail,
10s. Trial Free at Office. Write for Booklet, free, or
send order direct to
Nonjc Catarrh C6rc Co.,
231 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
CALVERT’S
CARBOLIC DISINFECTANTS,
SOAPS, TOOTH POWDER,
OINTMENT, etc.,
Are the Original and only Reliable.
They have been awarded 100 Medals and Diplomas
for Superior Excellence, and should always be used
as a protection against Infectious Diseases—especially
in Hot Climates.
Avoid Inferior Imitations.
F. C. CALVERT & CO., Manchester,
ASTHMA CURE
GR!MA”LT’S
inDIAn CIGARETTES
Difficulty in Expectoration, Asthma, Nervous
Coughs, Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression
immediately relieved by GRIM AD LT & CO’S
Indian Cigarettes. Sold by all Chemists.
Do Not Seek Assistance
From New # Untried Sources
but of the Old, Well Tried, and Reliable
The Renowned CURE
for Drunkenness. Can
be given Secretly or
otherwise. Book and
Particulars Free.^^
EUCRASy
Address or call on The Eucrasy Co., 62 Hunter-st., Sydney
or 271 Colilne-etreet, Melbourne, Vlo.
Medical.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
E.
Caution. —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, <fcc., bears on
the Government Stamp the name
of the Inventor—
Dr.J.COLLIS BROWN 6.
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS ol
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
CHLOROPyN
.
30 Days' Trial.
We grant every purchaser
of our
ELECTRIC
BELTS and
APPLIANCES
a trial of 30 da3 r s before
payment, which is fully
explained in our “ELEC-
TRIC ERA.” Our Electric
Beits will cure all NER-
VOUS and other Diseases
in all stages, however
caused, and restore the
wearer to robust health.
Our Marvellous Electric
Belts give a steady sooth-
ing current that can be
felt by the wearer through
all the weak part.
Remember, we give a
written guarantee with
each Electric Belt that it
will : permanently cure you. If it does not, we will
promptly return the full amount paid. We mean exactly
what we say, and do precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing,'we prefer that you send
for our Electric Era and Price List (post free), giving
illustrations of different appliances for BOTH SEXES
also Testimony which will convince the most sceptical.
Address
German Electric Appliance Agency
63 Elizabeth Stkekt, SYDNEY.
*
Cures all EYE
Disorders. Get a genuine
pot from any Chemist.
i’ropriefor.-sTEpHE,, GREEN,
210 Lambeth Rd., London, S.E.
Those suffering from Weak Eyes or
Eyelids, or other Eye Disorders
should send to
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY
for my Invaluable little pamphlet. ’
Modioal.
DRUNKENNESS
Or the LIQUOR HABIT positively CURED
by administering fUCRASY.
It , can be given in a cup of coffee or tea or food without
°* the person taking it. Perfectly harm-
less, and will effect a permanent and speedy cure. It
Wfci™i aJ - lB | Pam Pblet containing full particulars and
testimonials sent sealed free on application to
THE EUCRASY COY.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY:
Or 271 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mrs. WALSHE’S
Famous English Tansy Pills.
T H S^“^ Pil ' s . are "° w universally used through-
of S bein § the most perfect combinatfon
discovered. They contain no poison or
deleterious drugs, and they can always be relied on to
afford immediate relief. Price, sent anywhere ss. 6d
?79 fh X 'h o btainable at Rocke, Tompsitt, & Co., Druggists
-.2 ninders-st Melbourne. Mrs. John Wood, Bendigo-
at., Prahran, Melb. says : “ Mrs. Walshe’s Tansv Pills srsvve
me immediate relief, although I had during two
previous tried all sorts of remedies without success.”
G. L. ROBERTS. M.D.
Over
100
years
have
proved
their
value.
•nn
Always
useful.
Keep
them
handy.
Born 1766, Died 1834.
I inventor op Dr. ROBERTS’
T?°H y, ANS Fr,end ointment.
ChiontffVn' a " ? !f, o , unds and Skin Diseases,
UI ° erated Le « s - W«SpISS
use Dr. ROBERTS’
alterative pills,
S?s r eases"‘ P Pric^ S °l blo ° d - for Skin
Stores. F IS - T * d - and 2S - 9 d - each of all Drug
Sole MAKERsrBEACH & BARNICOTT Ltd
BRIDPORT. England.
DEAF
urn
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
|Completely overcome Deafness
and Head Noises, no matter of
'howlong landing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
eyes. Invisible. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal,
•explanatory Pamphlet Free
Address— A. M. HAST, 145 Collins St., Melbourne.
GENTS.^
CONCERNING TOIASsELyS® B °° K
Address L.D.1., 300 Collins St., Moibour no


A Woman’s Agony.
“ I have great pleasure in testifying to the good
results I have obtained from the use of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills,” writes Miss Ethel Brooks, 22
High-street, Kew, Vic. “ For the past five years
I have suffered the greatest agony with pains in
the back and head. Life almost became a burden.
My ailment was kidney trouble. After trying
several leading doctors I had given up in despair,
but a friend advised me to try these Pills. I did
so, and after taking the third bottle I am now
able to go about my daily household duties, and
am happy to say I am quite cured. You may make
this public, and accept my thanks for the good re-
sults obtained.” Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
stand alone as a perfect blood purifier, and posi-
tively cure biliousness, indigestion, dyspepsia,
headache, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples and blotches. Price, Is
lid. per bottle, or six bottles 6s. 6d. Sole Pro-
prietors, The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd. (Austra-
lasian Depdt), 58 Pitt-street, Sydney. They are
packed in amber bottles, and the full name blown
thereon.*
A Melbourne paper has made the alarm-
ing discovery that there are Boer spies at this
moment in Australia. Now, will any calm and
dispassionate person try to figure out exactly what
information there is in Australia which would be
of one penn’orth of value to any Boer ? r l here
are no more Contingents leaving here, and
Roberts’ secret plans and the British Govern-
ment’s intentions are not to be found lying loose
on the public-house counters in Bourke-street. A
Boer agent here would be about as much good as a
Bulgarian spy on the upper waters of the Amazon.
It doubtless feeds the vanity of a certain military
clique to picture this place as haunted by secret
agents; it seems to set Australia on a par with
great European Powers, and to suggest mystery
and diplomacy and intrigue. But, as a matter of
fact, a Boer agent might listen till his ear dropped
off at all the official keyholes in Australia, and
gain no information worth mentioning, for there
isn’t any. This country doesn’t even know where
its own Contingents are half the time.
Important Notice. —Piles. —Mr. Frank
Buckhurst, Chemist, of Mutual Store Buildings,
Flinders-street, Melbourne, has now a stock of the
famous “Cannalia” remedies for Piles. Copies
of the pamphlet by Albert Sharp, “ Piles and
How to Cure them,” sent free on application, or
from the head dep6t, 257 George-street, {Sydney.*
IDEAL TYRES
Unsurpassed for
SPEED, SERVICEABILITY, DURABILITY, ECONOMY.
Cheapest Trade House for Cycle Parts, Accessories,
Tyres and Tyre Material.
Write for our Trade Price List and Catalogue.
A. G. HEALING & CO.
Ideal Tyre Coy.
RICHMOND, VICTORIA;
and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
WHEN you RIDE FIRST-CLASS ON the Railway
you take a first-class carriage.
When you ride first-class on a Bicycle you select
A MASSEY-HARRIS.
Factories—Toronto, Canada. New South Wales Headquarters—Sydney
Branches—Melbourne, Sydney, Dunedin, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Agencies almost everywhere. Art Catalogue posted tree on application.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH : 385 GEORGE STREET,
(Opposite Strand Arcade).
SYDNEY
-71
-71
-71
-71
Y*
*
-71
-71
*
*
-71
71
71 .-71 _-7l
■ *7l *7l “71
THE RED BIRD BICYCLE.
Is the vehicle of the age. It will give years of wear without worry. You may
follow a procession or beat a railway train on it. It is an ornament to your
drawing-room, an object of pride to your family, and a continual pleasure to
yourself. Horses need feed, yachts and boats need caulking and repeated
attention, but a good bicycle needs nothing, and does more for you.
' The Goold Bicycle Co.,
Tel. 3160. 64 KING STREET, SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Once Rosehill was known as the “Punters’
Paradise,” but happenings at last Saturday’s and several
Erior meetings would suggest “ Mo.’s Harvest” as more
tting. Trouble began with Granville Stakes, when a 20
to 1 chance —lodine—(only nibbled at) got home in front
of the fast-finishing Australian Colors, which divided first-
favoritism with Maranoa. Steeplechase went to the big-
gest outsider (Satan II.) in a field of four only. Parra-
matta Handicap was won by Mt. Morgan W. R. Hall’s
Reviver (a 10 to 1 chance) who beat the first favorite—
Bob—in a hot finish and after a race that makes his (Re-
viver’s) Epsom prospects look rosy. Only first favorite to
get home throughout the day was Kelso’s Martini-Henry
—Vain Glory gelding Dandy in the Spring Stakes, run
under modified weight-for-age conditions. He fairly
romped away in the straight from a more than ordinarily
good field and a much better one than has been seen on a
course other than Randwick for many a day. Dandy’s
present form is such that one could back nothing else for
next Saturday’s big mile event with any confidence.
Rickshaw (6 to 1 against) just little more than pipped
first favorite (Glenore) in Aug. Handicap after a gruelling
finish. A rank outsider (Clydon) downed heavily-backed
Loch Olieveden (7 to 4 against) by a head through latter
losing her place at one Stage of the race. Many Derby
candidates were out. Yarrabee ran third in Granville
Stakes; Haulette, Hautesse, Wigelmar, Philibeg and
Schimmel figured in the Spring Stakes. Hautesse was
second to Dandy and therefore beat all others—carrying
a 101 b. penalty. Haulette, also humping an extra burden,
was fourth, while Schimmel and Philibeg shaped well.
* * * •
The disappointing Clarion, by Carbine—Clare,
has been leased to Mr. H. C. White for stud purposes. As
a 3-year-old, Clarion took the fancy of many good judges,
who expected him to develop into a Cup-horse, but the
son of Carbine lacked dash. A beautiful galloper, but a
comparatively slow-going machine.
*****
W. P. Crick, M.L.A. recently got heavily on
to the Committee of the Australian Jockey Club for
alleged hole-and-corner work. In the election of a fresh
committee Crick was badly left, polling less than half the
number of votes recorded for the lowest successful can-
didate ; but he can console himself with the reflection
that, as the result of such election was practically a cut-
and-dried affair, the formal balloting was little short of a
farce. The A. J.C. committee is elected, to all intents and
purposes, by the Union and Australian clubs, and most of
the men chosen are of extremely high personal repute.
But some of them are very slow, and it would do no harm
to have an aggressive outsider like Crick as a member, to
liven things up occasionally.
* * • •
Record Reign, one of Maoriland’s best handicap
flat-racers, lately won Maiden Hurdles and then the N.Z.
Grand National, carrying in latter 12,12 (inc. penalty).
Seven starters were beaten off; the time (2 miles),
3.46 3-sths, was 6sec. inside record for the race. On last
day of meeting winner was weighted at 13.13—a grand-
stand impost—but declined. The minimum was 9st. He
is engaged in N.Z. Cup at 8.11.
- * * .* *
Mr. J. A. Buckland’s three-year-old trotter,
The Heir, full brother to champion Fritz, won the classic
Juvenile Stakes of £2OO at Canterbury, (M.L.). Trotting
Club’s meeting by a head. The biggest field—3o—that
has ever faced a starter in a M.L. trotting event—went
out for the Bracelet at same meeting, winner paying
£34 10s. Another good div., £3O was returned during the
day.
* * * *
Reliance, who has won the Coolgardie Cup
(worth 500 sovs.) and the Boulder Cup, was bred by W. R.
Wilson, but did so wretchedly that that first-rate judge
of live stock, C. N. Kidman, was able to buy him for 29 sovs.
Mr. Kidman handed him over to Bolger to train, giving
Bolger a half-share in him. As betting was heavy over
both events, and as the horse was at one time at 8 to 1,
the stable must have made a “ punch.” Kidman was
pretty well going out of racing (he has his hands full of
the Westralian “meat-ring” business, being one of the
big shippers of live stock for the goldfields); but this has
given him a taste for more.
* * * *
Barring The Grafter and old Merman, Aus-
tralian horses have been performing poorly at ’Ome, the
latest failure being the quondam N.S.W. crack 3-year-old
Australian who ran “ absolutely ” in a race at the fashion-
able Lingfield Park.
* * * *
Mr. M. Power, who died suddenly on Saturday
morning last from the rupture of a cranial blood-vessel,
was one of Sydney’s best-known horsey men. Manager
of Mr. Sam. Hordern’s horse department, both racing and
utility, no hor ie-sale seemed complete without “Mick”
Power at the ringside. Some years ago he went to Eng-
land under commission from Mr. Hordern to purchase
blood stock, when he bought Haut Brion and Gigue, both
of the celebrated St. Simon blood, and several mares to
this country. Mr. Power was a man of exceptionally
fine physique, and did not look his 47 years.
Shrewd old Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) courser
“ Sam ” Bladon gathered in Sydney C.C.’s Bracelet Stakes
at Belmore last week with Beeline, his third crack per-
former in evidence this season. The veteran has now
scooped all the plums of the year in N.S.W., besides a few
in Victoria. Beeline is a red bitch by Leopold out of
Besant, and a worthy kennel mate to Braddon’s Blot and
Booty, which is saying a heap.
* * * •
Bill Beach made another of his periodical
swoops upon N.S.W. Gun Club, t’other day, and grassed
18—all with the first barrel. When he told that on that
day 16 years before he took the World’s Championship
from Ned Hanlan on the Parramatta, there was great
cheering and many congratulatious. Bill is as popular as
ever everywhere, and, unlike most champions who drop
out of the game, still owns and deserves hosts of friends.
* * * *
All-black pug match—lke Stewart v. Starlight—
at Golden Gate Hall (Sydney), Saturday, ended unsatis-
factorily. Starlight wasn’t “taking any” of the usual
referee—and clever boxer Wally Weekes, utterly devoid
of experience in that capacity, was chosen to fill the
office. Stewart, prompted by his wily seconds (Jim
Barron and Abe Willis) made the pace a cracker from the
jump, but as the mature “Star” knows every trick of
the trade, Ike’s swoop didn’t have the devastating
effects intended. In the second term the cunning “ Star.”
gave Stewart the shoulder as he bore down with all sail set,
and in various other ways—permissible but hardy legiti-
mate- -shook the local black from head to heel. Round
three had hardly begun when the fight was over. They
were breaking away from a clinch when “ Star. ” —quick
as a flash—got a weighty right home on the jaw. An
appeal (without apparent provocation) from Stewart’s
corner caused the referee to declare Ike the winner on
“ a foul.” There was no foul—’twas as fair a thing as
could be. The responsible official’s decision is only-
explainable by the probability that he “ lost his head.”
He went further, subsequently, and declared all bets off.
Why? If the verdict was good what valid reason could
there be for such a proceeding ?
* * * • »
“ Old-Timer ” : Saw Stewart-Starlight fight,
and thought latter most unfortunate in being adjudged
loser. There was no foul at all; both Starlight’s hands
were free, and that being so it didn’t matter how close
Stewart might have been, or even if he were clinging;
but present-day referees don’t know the rules, and the
one who acted on this occasion, though as straight as a
die, had had no experience. Subsequent explanation from
him evidenced that he thought combatants should be
half-a-yard away from each other before either could
strike." This shows the idea of M.Q. rules some people
have. Frequent cries of “Break fair!” from referees
and manner in which fighters go back with arms extended
are amusing. There’s no such thing as “ break fair”—it’s
simply “ break,” and either may land a punch instanter
provided he is not holding his opponent. Starlight had
the better of the deal as far as matters went, and looked
a sure winner. One or other would certainly have been
knocked out before the tenth round, judging by the pace
set.
• * • *
Starlight in the ring is indeed a swell. Entering
the roped*square he distributes his bows with all the
dignity of a king, and when that long “ Newmarket ” coat
is peeled off the effect is dazzling. Pale blue knickers,
with black-lace front and back, are surmounted by a
broad black belt. The boots are a dream in fighting foot-
wear, and extend well up the leg. Hair parted down the
middle with scrupulous exactness tops the lot. Such a
“ Gussie ’’-looking pug hasn’t shaped in Sydney for many
a day. The crowd, unused to so fetching a spectacle,
stared flabbergasted, and then roared with laughter,
especially while the bowing went on.
* * * *
Referee of a Sydney fighting-club was introduc-
ing two darkies (prospective combatants) to the crowd
t’other night. “ Gen’l’men,” he said, “these are two
colored gladiators who are— ” One of them kicked here;
he was a gentleman though his skin might be of inky
hue, and “ he wasn’t goin’ to stan’ there and be called an
alligator by any man.” Sustained roars of laughter pre-
vented an explanation being made and proceedings pro-
ceeded.
• • • •
“Rats”: See second Cribb-Higgins fight in
Sydney this Saturday night is being billed “ for light-
weight championship of ’Stralia.” Why, neither has the
slightest claim to fight for the title. Higgins tried to get
it from holder (Peter Murphy) once in Brisbane, but failed
badly. Cribb has never yet fought at the weight (10st.),
and ’tis doubtful whether he could do so. Anyhow, why
are they fighting again ? Higgins threw up the sponge
before, and would have done so two rounds previously
bub for ’suasion from his trainer.
* • • •
Monday’s cables told of another big win for the
lanky M.L. freak bruiser, Fitzsimmons, who knocked out
that acknowledged toughest mass of brawn in the busi-
ness, Sailor Sharkey, before the second round was
through. Sharkey has been up against all the Yankee
heavy-weights, and never before experienced the soothing
influence of a punch on the point or a jab on the mark.
Fact of freckle-fisted Fitz. spread-eagling the hurricane
Sailor for at least lOsecs. stamps him as the stillest
puncher of ’em all. Bob’s claims for another cut at
champion-of-the-world Jeffries can’t be ignored now.
When latter and Sharkey fought they put up a gruelling,
stoushing go of the severest character for 25 rounds, and
then thousands argued that it should have been Sharkey’s
fight or a draw. Had they stopped at the 20th the
referee couldn’t have got out of giving the verdict to
Sharkey. On this form, ’tis any odds that Fitz. will own
, the world’s supremacy again if the Californian ex-boiler-
maker toes the scratch. Fitz. and Sharkey met in ’Frisco
four years ago. Fitz. knocked chunks off the Sailor, and
in the Bth round had him dead to the world, when gun-
fighter Wyatt Earp, who was referee, declared that Fitz.
had hit low and fouled, and gave the fight to Sharkey
amid hisses and groans from the immense crowd looking
on. Sharkey has had more rough treatment during his
brief career than falls to the lot of most pugs in a lifetime,
notably when the Akron giant, Ruhlin, punched him to a
jelly recently. Hence writer wouldn’t be surprised to
hear that, finding Fitz. much too good for him, Sharkey
thought discretion the better part of valor, and went
“ out ” early so as to avoid another mangling.
*****
“ Old Timer ” : Was looking forward to a record
in poundage had Akron giant Ruhlin and Los Angeles
giant Jeffries come together for world’s championship,
but Fitzsimmons’ subjugation of former puts that out of
the question—for a term, anyhow. Dutchman Harry
Placke (6.5) and Q. giant Dick Barker (6.7) were the
tallest men ever seen in the Australian ring together.
P.R. history tells of some huge bruisers, notably Free-
man, the American giant, who whipped the “ Tipton
Slasher.” Ned O’Baldwin was a big lot when he shaped
up to that fine sample of an English yeoman, Andrew
Marsden, at Nottingham. But, though the Irish giant
stood 6.54, he belonged to the lathy or “ gintale ” section.
Gully and Gregson were much over 6ft. and stout in pro-
portion. Isaac Perrins (a worker in iron) was a monster
of muscle, strength and tissue. Writer remembers read-
ing that Johnson (a corn-porter who fought Perrins)
carried two sacks of corn (5001 b.) every journey for some
time so that the wife of a sick mate shouldn’t lose her
housekeeping money.
* • * *
Erstwhile W.A. pug. Tommy Cox, who beat
“ The Kaffir ” and others but wasn’t considered anything
here, found his way to Honolulu and thence to ’Frisco
with an ex-member of M'Adoo’s minstrel troupe as
manager. Fairy tales were told about Cox’s feats in this
section, and Yankee scribes wrote him up as an “ Austra-
lian Terry M‘Govern,” but there was a big slump in
Tommy’s stock when he met one Cole at ’Frisco last
month. Cox won on points after 20 rounds, but fell so
far short of expectations that judges opine he’ll go no
farther than his next battle —which may not come soon, as
there’s no market in Yankeedom for third or fourth-rate
bruisers.
* * * *
Late files record that that tall, good-looking,
and exceptionally clever but weak-hearted N.S.W. pug.—
Steve O'Donnell —has had what may prove his last show
in the States. Hibernian Peter Maher knocked him out
at Ne w York (July 6) inside 2mins. Source of information
says Steve had his nose broken, was floored three times,
and finally beaten helpless. Why these two men were
again brought together is hard to fathom. Five years ago
Maher settled the 'Stralian in a punch. A year later the
big Irishman came up atop once more ere the expira-
tion of a minute. In ’97 they boxed a six rounds draw
but a month further on Steve only lasted two rounds in
opposition to same man. O'Donnell was a smart electro-
typer and could have done well in Sydney but for the
seductive influence of those fabulous Yankee purses—
mostly mythical, as a fighter’s remuneration ’cross Che
Pacific depends wholly upon how the “ gate ” pans out
and then he only gets the leavings after the promoter has
closed on 50 per cent, and the manager and (often) four
or five others have had their dips into the pile. London
“ National ” Sporting Club purses don’t strike the ear as
temptingly as American rewards, but they’re much more
substantial as a rule.
• • *
Harry Graham, chosen 13th man in the ’93 Aus-
tralian XI., and who won the batting average of that tour,
has just returned from Mt. William gold-rush, near
Ararat, after an unsuccessful innings amongst the fos-
sickers.
* * * •
The British amateur cricketer can bat, but he
can’t bowl. In match, Gentlemen v. Players, finished at
Lords, July 18, former made 297 and 339. Players, having
put up only 136 in first innings, were left with 501 to
make, and they accomplished the task with 8 wickets
down, Brown making 163 and Tom Hayward 111. For the
amateurs, R. E. Foster, considered the most dashing bats-
man in England this season, made the double century.
Foster has been running second in the batting averages,
and is now probably just about at the top.
* * * *
Fred. Spofforth, one-time demon bowler, does
not seem to have altered much as old Sydneyites recollect
him. When the last Australian Eleven were in England
they received more than one letter from “ Spoff,” saying
that he felt as well as ever he did, and suggesting that
they throw out one of their bowlers and take him on
tour. How like the “ Demon ! ”
* * * *
S.A. Lacrosse Association has decided to do
nothing at present re importing a Canadian team next
winter, and as Adelaide is practically the headquarters of
the game, this is a decided damper. Generally under-
stood that Melb. Cricket Club contemplate offering to
run the whole show, and that is about the only chance of
the tour coming off, unless some one puts up the £lOOO
necessary to begin with.
* * * *
Last round of first-grade matches in Sydney
local football competitions was contested Saturday.
Glebe and ’Varsity led by 10 to 5, but Glebe came with a
full head of steam, and compiled 15 without a break.
Match topped anything seen this season for brilliancy,
and probably equalled the best inter-club game ever
played before. Western Suburbs had Balmain in trouble
for the first lOrnin., but subsequently were “ all out ” to
prevent their opponents scorings—never once attempting
the aggressive themselves. A draw resulted. Meeting
between S. Sydney and Newtown supplied comparatively
poor football; Souths won by sto 3. There was a lot of
go in E. Suburbs —N. Sydney contest, but neither side
had its best team. Former came out ahead —9 to nil.
* * 4 *
Sydney club football season closed Saturday
with Glebe on top in all three grades—second and third
easily. Senior team has played 14 matches, won 11, lost 2,
drawn 1, and scored 156 points to 67 notched against
them. ’Varsity comes next with 8 won, 5 lost, and 1
drawn. Newton is last on the list—4 won and 10 lost.
» * * *
Vic. premiership football got a severe shock
last week, when Geelong club very nearly got itself fired
out of the league. When the sleepy tovvnship played
“ Sowth” Melb.—on latter’s ground—early in the season,
the latter charged entrance fees to certain lady-sup-
porters, club members. Geelong protested, and, the
protest being unheeded, retaliated by charging admission
to all and sundry, save its own club members, when the
return match was played. Sowth appealed to the league,
which ordered the Geelongers to return the money—£6 Is.
They declined, and were promptly fined £2O in addition, to
be paid inside three days; in default, expulsion from league
for rest of season. The three days passed, also a fourth
and a fifth ; then the Seasiders, realising that they were
cutting off their noses to spite their faces, ate humble pie
and paid up; and peace and goodwill reigned once more.
Also, the gate the following Saturday, when they met
Melbourne, was much bigger than usual. If the league is
to be anything more than a dummy, like the V.A.G., it
must, of course, enforce its decisions.
* * * •
A constable had to draw his revolver to deal
with a Camberwell (Vic.) football crowd the other Satur-
day. The crowd wanted to eat the umpire.
* * • *
Revival of Botany pedestrian Handicaps, at old
Sir Joseph Banks Hotel, Friday, was a complete success.
Entries were good, and canie from all parts. Close on
2000 paid at the gates. Betting was lively on every heat.
Jones (aged 20), from Narandera (on 16yds.), carried most
money, and, before the first heat came on, nothing better
than 5 to 2 could be had, He got home in final, with
Griffiths (17yds.) second, and Vic. G. B. Bowser (13yds.)
third. Time, 11 7-10 sec. Jones is built for the game,
and promises well; albeit, he shaped as if he’d been in
the biz. before. A good sum of money could have been
won. Writer heard that a well-known “ shop ” Mo.
worked a fair commission on the rural flyer.
* • * *
At the recent British championships meeting
(up to then the most important meet on record of World’s
amateur athletes), there were 179 entries and 116 faced
the flag. Holders of five British premierships (Welch,
Newburn, Stokes, Paget-Tomlinson and Pritchard) failed
to appear. Of eight other champions only Tysoe and
Sturgess came out atop. Yankees scored eight firsts,
British Empire, fivd‘. England had 8J seconds and
America 4£. Kraenzlein’s 15 2-5 beat the world’s 120yds,
hurdles (on grass) record. Flanagan’s hammer-throw
wiped-out a British best. The English fastest (10 secs.)
for 100yds. was equalled and the figures for previous
championship performances at pole-jumping and weight-
putting excelled.
• • * •
His performances—in British Championships
and Olympian Games at Paris—indicate that, at most,
Australian champion sprinter Rowley is only a yard or
two worse than the best Yankee article over 100yds. In
the old country’s supremacy, he was a close fourth to
’Muricans Duffy, Jarvis, and Tewkesbury, as named;
then, in the 100 metres event of Olympian Games, July
14, Jarvis won 2ft. ahead of Tewkesbury, with Rowley
almost abreast, third. Later, Rowley was second to an-
other Yankee top-notcher (Kraenzlein) in the 50 metres
contest. Rowley had the bad luck to be up against the
strongest lot America ever produced ; but for their pres-
ence he would have made a clean sweep of the board.
• * » *
Crack swimmer Charlie Hellings succumbed to
pneumonia in Sydney Hospital, Saturday. He was 29,
and had been swimming almost every season since ’B2,
when that N.S.W. pioneer swimming organisation, the
old P.J. Club, flourished. Charlie won championships in
his time and appropriated many other important events.
Last season he was a competitor in several races, and was
tipped as a “good thing” for the big “ Half-Mile,” but
lack of proper “fix,” consequent upon long hours and
hard daily toil, told its tale. He affected the old single
over-arm style, which, in writer’s opinion, is by far the
best, though the ‘ ‘ Trudgeon,” or double over-arm method,
finds most favor now. Percy Cavill, Joey Nuttall (cham-
pion of the World), Tyers and Jarvis (present amateur
champion of England) all adopt the single over-arm
means of propulsion. Charlie Hellings was a brother of
sailing enthusiast and popular comic singer George
Hellings, who died some months back, also Jack Hellings
(the world-famous sprint swimmer, now in England),
Dick Hellings (the noted crack coxswain), and Harry
Hellings (until recently hon. handicapper to the N.S.W.
Amateur Swimming Association).
* * * *
Cable that ’Stralian champion swimmer Lane
had, at Paris Olympian Games, won 200 metres supremacy
in 2m. 25J5., and 200 metres obstacle race in 2m. 385., ex-
plains why no news has come regarding him for some
time; he probably laid himself out for these events. Fast
times would indicate that they were put up with a cur-
rent—probably on the Seine. So far, Lane has only com-
peted once in England this season, and this when Derby-
shire beat him by a yard in 150 yards after a hot and very
fast race.
**. * *
’Ome files give lengthy accounts of English
Long-distance Swimming Championship on the Thames
(’tween Kew and Putney) last month. Distance is esti-
mated at 5 miles and 60 yards. Winner (Jarvis) finished
300 yards in front of second man in lh. 4m. 17s. Previous
best (2.18 slower) stood in Australian Percy Cavill’s name,
and was accomplished three years ago. Race is swum
with the current, hence the apparently wonderful time.
Does not necessarily follow that there was greater merit
in Jarvis’s feat than in Cavill’s, for the Englishman might
have had more favourable conditions. Swimming time-
tests are only thoroughly reliable in water unaffected by
tidal or other influences.
• • • *
A Cycle Paths Bill, to be presented in M.L.
Parliament, gives cyclists in any district power to ask
Govt., by a majority of 2 to 1, to proclaim the district a
cycle district, so that every cyclist may be taxed ss. a
year to keep the roads in order, while the local authority
will have power to set apart portions of a road for the
exclusive use of cyclists, and arrange with cycle-boards
for laying down cycle-paths.
* * * *
Porta, the Italian cyclist, a favorite on so many
Aus. tracks a few years ago, is still in the West. He sued
a broker lately for £lOO, a disputed amount in connection
with a pretty’ big share transaction. But Maximiliano
went under.
• -* * *
In the John Roberts v. Frank Smith match at
Melb. Athenaeum Hall the champion’s “ form ” was
seemingly affected by Smith’s failure to play up to. him.
Conceding 6,000 in 14,000, Roberts found himself with a
lot the best of the handicap at the end of the second day,
and on the third afternoon the game dragged woefully,
Smith’s three best breaks being 71, 46, and 29. In the
evening, when Waxelleucy Madden and co. came along to
see what he was capable of, Roberts showed them breaks
of 219, 181 (twice), 111, and an unfinished 53, whilst
“ pace-maker” Smith was going weaker than ever, so the
old man filled in the spare half-hour with some fancy
strokes. It takes two players to make an interesting ex-
hibition-match. Smith, owing to an attack of liver, or
want of acquaintance with the bonzoline balls, shapea
like an amateur at times when he should have been put-
ting in his best work.
• * * •
“Baulk Line”: “Frank Smith, champion of
Victoria,” was a great disappointment to anyone who saw
him for the first time at Melb. Athenaeum Hall last week.
It was not so much his poor work against Roberts that
disappointed us, as his general appearance of weakness.
He isn't the stuff of which first-class billiard players are
made, though, doubtless, the dapper little fellow looks
big enough when dealing with players of his own class.
Roberts, on the other hand, comes as a pleasant surprise
to many people. Present scribe, for one, had expected to
find him in a rapid decline of “ form,” whereas he is prac-
tically the same inimitable artist who toured Australia
nine years ago. The suppression of the “push” stroke
has reduced his rate of scoring, but his delicacy of touch,
promptness, and fine, manly grip of the situation are as
maaked as ever. The match with Smith, of course, was
mere child’s play to the Old Master, and it put no real
strain on his nerve. Now that he is well into the fifties,
and begins to know what it is to feel uncertain of himself
sometimes, Roberts may be better at exhibition play than
when there is a big money-stake depending on his nerve.
All the same, I think he will be just goqd enough to beat
Weiss for that £5OO. The Australian champion is pretty
sure to make a plucky fight of it, and 7000 points in 21,000
is a long start, but, then, Roberts is an old dog who has
travelled harder roads than that.
• * * *
The Dunlop Tyre Co. are in receipt of the fol-
lowing cablegram from their Parisian representative
“ Paris, Monday, August "20th. —Huret won 100 kilometres
(62J- miles) World’s Professional Championship. Bastion
won similar Amateur Event. Both races motor-paced
Dunlops.”
* * * •
A John Roberts billiard yarn which deserves
to be true. The great John strolled into the billiard
room of an hotel, and a stranger immediately invited him
to a game. “Just as well that you should know my
name,” said John. “It is Roberts.” “ Yaas,’ said the
stranger, “ I’ve heard of the name. Do you play ?
“Well, I’m John Roberts, the world’s champion at bil-
liards. It’s only fair to mention the fact before we start.’
“ Yaas,” said the stranger, “ I guess under those circs. I
can’t give you more than 20 in the 100 ! ”
Champion Roberts was being tricky in the pre-
sence of vice-royalty in Melb. during the run of a local
match, and one of his specialities was to make the ball
bound off the table over the chandelier, and do some-
thing astounding. The ball bounded all right, but fell
amongst the audience, and close search failed to recover
it. “ I never yet missed a pocket with that trick ” was
the champion’s comment.
“ Bully ” : Curious that our sainted Bananaland
Govt., which objects to Tatt’s. advts. as demoralising,
allows the pubs up-north to keep open all hours of the
night, Sunday included—gambling going on all the time
like fury.
* * » •
Dave Gregory, captain of the first Australian
XI., was very swarthy. When the team drove on to Not-
tingham ground in ’7B, one of the crowd was heard to say,
pointing to Dave These be the chaps, Bill—leastways
one on ’cm’s a ’arf-carste.


J Snjot(e
I
%
j^uiirrmn/mnu
-Or
X
m
"I'll II JM I I'M
What do you Srrjoke?
INSIST ON GETTING DERBY.
THE MODERN ART JEWELLERY CO.,
&
Isj|'
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(Telephone 3490.)
Handsome
STEELING
SILVER-MOUNTED
PHOTO FRAMES.
10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 25/-.
SILVER-MOUNTED
(Panel Size)
FRAMES.
25/-, 30/-, 32/6, 40/-.
fMJr,
m
M
STERLING SILVER
PIN TRAYS.
6/6 each.
Best SILVER-PLATED
TRAYS.
From 3/- per pair.
C B B
*<?»
\
S 80 3
5800
5000
!TSS
Sflo>
Guaranteed nor to or bc/ro.
CERTIFICATE. —ShouId any of our “ Can’t B Beat ” Briar Pipes;
crack or burn, a new one will be exchanged for it immediately on
, application. Thousands Selling: Daily.
CBB
BRIAR
mien simmons
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches everywhere.
THE
Co-Operative Wool & Produce Co
LIMITED.
Offices: 12 and 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
STORES : CENTRAL. WHARF.
SOLE CHARGE—3 Per Cent, to the Growers.
BUILT UP ON NATURE'S PLAN
RESEMBLES MOTHER’S MILK IN COMPOSITION AND
* PROPERTIES, IT MAY BE GIVEN FROM BIRTH.
MELLIN’S FOOD is of the highest value for the weak and sickly babe,
as well as for the strong and vigorous. Adapted for use in all Climates.
MELUN’S
EMULSION
For COUGHS, COLDS, LOSS OF
FLESH, AND GENERAL
MALNUTRITION.
MELLIN’S FOOD AND MEEEIN’S EMUESION HAY BE OBTAINED OF AEL DEALERS.
Samples and Pamphlets to be obtained from QOLLIN & CO., 172 CJarenv e Street, Sydney.
Lest We Forget.
REMEMBER that Warner’s Safe Cure has
stood the test of more than
twenty year’s use as the only
specific for kidney and liver
diseases.
REMEMBER that it is recognised as a specific
by the medical faculty, and is in
daily use in the leading hospitals
throughout the world.
REMEMBER that it has been a boon to
thousands, who by its use have
been saved from being numbered
among the victims of dread
Bright’s disease—the scourge of
the present day.
AND SO commence using Warner’s Safe
REMEMBER- Cure to-day if you have the
INGr, slightest symptoms that denote
an affection of the kidneys. It is
what its name implies—a “Safe”
Cure for all who are thus
afflicted.
Mr. William Bennett, tailor, Branxton,
N.S.W., writes: “I can certify that Warner’s
Safe Cure cured me of kidney complaint, from
which I suffered for five years. My back was so
bad I could scarcely straighten it. After taking
three or four bottles I was completely cured and
have never been troubled with it since.”
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there is
ONLY ONE COFFEE PALACE TO STAY AT
IN SYDNEY. That is . . .
“ El is’ King-street Coffee Palace,”
situated 50 KING STREET, and near the General Post
Office.
Proprietor - - GEO. W. ELLIS.
rpo CYCLISTS AND CYCLE REPAIRMEN . .
I<T- YOU MUST WANT SOME OF THESE LINES !
“IMPERIAL” Roadsters with Westwood Steel Rims'and
Dunlops.
“ IMPERIAL ” Special Racers with same fittings.
American 1900 Model Component Sets, complete with
every fitting-, all ready machined, nickeled and
threaded. Anyone who can braze can build a bicycle
of these sets.
“MORROW” Coaster Hub (free wheel) and Back Pedal
Brake—saves the rider 40 per cent.
Write for Price Lists of above goods, also best lines of
Sundries, Novelties and Second-hand Wheels. COOD
AGENTS wanted where not at present represented. Marine
Oil Engines and Launches—particulars and designs. A
post-card will bring you all information of our lines.
J. F. MCDERMOTT & COMPANY,
37 Market-street, Sydney, N.S. W.
At Poverty Point.
Manager Lohr boldly advertises with regard to " What
Happened to Jones ” at Sydney Palace, “ Seats may be
booked six weeks in advance." It is a pretty good
manager with a pretty good show who can feel dead sure
about where he will be six weeks hence.
“ One touch of Nature,” &c. During Maggie Moore’s
last tour of M.L. she visited Wanganui and was taken to
witness a tangi over the dead chief Rangi. The womanly
Maggie was so moved by the lamentations of the old
Maori crones that she “ took a hand ” and started weep-
ing also.
Rumour says that Oarlyle Smythe, now in Europe, has
at last persuaded Paderewski to come to Australia. Be-
lieve it when you see the man of the yellow hair and the
long fingers actually flogging the Erard Grand. Paderewski
signed with Smythe to come to Australia several years
ago, but backed out. The Court Circular, by the way,
lately said that Paderewski “had the honor” of playing
before the Queen, whereupon even so Jingo a paper as
the Sphere remarked that the honor was the other way
about.
Talking of the estimated profit of Donald Macdonald’s
lecturing tour, it is only a fair thing to give the business
manager a line. Young Edwin Geach, who is somewhat
of a pupil of the genial (and wily) Lohr, has a sympathetic
press to deal with in Mac.’s case, and he works the oracle
most energetically. On the morning of Mac.’s opening-
day in Brisbane the Courier gave him a column of leading
article and another column of biographical notice.
Remarkable reference by S.M. Herald of Aug. 4 to Nance
O’Neil’s Melb. performance of Fedora: “ The dying scene
was ruined by the act-drop leaving Miss O’Neil’s head and
shoulders in full view of the audience. This and other
catastrophes were directly due to the labors of the
O’Neil-Rankin Co. in the cause of charity.” Query: If
the co. had given one more charitable performance, would
the poor lady’s head have been cut off ?
Rickards’ Adelaide music-hall experiment is turning
out quite a success. Rickards’ enterprise has influenced
the sleepy Royal, which will now have to hustle to keep
in line with the King William-street house.
Nat Goodwin has, The Bulletin hears from California,
been distinguishing himself again—playing melodrama
off the stage. He enjoyed himself so thoroughly with
hilarious friends at Los Angeles that the curtain had to
be rung down not only on the play, but on the en-
gagement, while for two days Nat’s life hung in the balance,
and fellow-hilarians trembled for the results of their
escapade. It was probably the biggest advt. he ever had,
but a little too costly for the co.
, George Musgrove has a lease of Sydney Lyceum dating
from December next.
! “ Demisemiquaver ” : Have you noticed all the recent
American music-hall songs, how they run into syncopated
rythins ? The whole of one of Irene Franklin’s songs is
syncopated throughout. This syncopation is, of course,
copied from the negro, of whose music it is characteristic.
It is extraordinary how the coon is coming above the
musical horizon. He is intensely musical. The foremost
of the rising “ English ” composers just now is Coleridge
Taylor, a half-caste West Indian negro. Dvorak, the
great Hungarian composer, went to the U. States and lived
among the negroes to get their rythms into his last and
greatest symphony. The coon has captured the music-
i hall now; and he may yet inherit the seats of the mighty
|in the kingdom of sound. And as to color, he doesn’t
wear gaudy green and red neckerchiefs for nothing.
; Who is going to make the burlesque—“ The Tyranny
of Beers ” ?
Johnnie Sheridan, in his lately-published booklet,
mentions that when he re-visited America in ’92, he was
more or less boycotted by press and public for having
(brought over an English and Australian co. He opened
in New York, and had a poor house for his first night.
“ For thirteen years I have played the Widow O’Brien.
Think of it! I have worn stays for thirteen solid years,”
says Sheridan.
“ Anti-Gammon ” : There’s a lot of stuff in “ Hedda
Gabler ” that seems to be gratuitous suggestiveness, or
1 “ indelicacy,” or whatever the ordinary Goth may choose
| to think. For instance, the probability of Hedda having
i a baby is touched upon three or four times. The old
aunt questions Hedda’s husband in the first act as to
i whether he and his bride have “expectations.” Women
in the audience titter violently at this cheap bit of
realism. It is new, but it doesn’t strike them that it is
novel only because other serious dramatists avoid unneces-
sary domestic details calculated to raise cerulean merri-
ment. Ibsen merely puts into his play carefully. the
catch lines which a Pinero would leave out. The idea
that Hedda’s husband’s aunt W'ants her to increase the
population is of no interest to the audience, seeing that
it has not the least bearing on the plot. In “ The Doll’s
House ” (the only other Ibsen play ever produced in Aus-
tralia), a gloomy elderly gentleman wastes a lot of time
over telling the heroine that he has arranged
to die of an inherited unmentionable disease.
The women in the audience nudge one another, and that’s
1 what Ibsen calculated on when he introduced the dirty
“ stroke of genius,” or whatever his admirers call it. But
to get back to “ Hedda Gabler ” and the everyday works of
nature. In the second act, Mr. Assessor Somebody sug-
gests that the lady will probably be having a baby some
day, to which she replies that “nothing of the sort is
likely to happen.” And again women in the audience
titter violently, whilst men speculate as to where the
hidden meaning of the dramatist is going to reveal itself.
The third act contains no reference to pregnancy, as far
as I can remember ; but in the fourth act the old aunt
returns to the subject, and Hedda herself appears
to give her husband to understand that she is in a “ cer-
tain condition,” whereat he promises himself the pleasure
of bearing the glad tidings to his blessed aunt. And
again women in the audience titter. Soon afterwards
Hedda commits suicide, not because she would probably
produce a baby if she continued to live, but because—
well, for some other reason best known to the author. So
all this “ blue ” talk at last proves irrelevant to the story.
The theatrical retrospector of a Melbourne weekly has
been moved “to try and catalogue from memory” the
doings of the Broughs since they first appeared in
“ lolanthe ”at the Royal. It is never safe to talk from
“ memory ” about things one never knew, or has more
than half-forgotten. Said the retrospector : “ When they
went across the road (from the Royal) to the Opera House
and started a burlesque season with ‘ Silver Guilt,’ Mrs.
Brough, in a black satin knee-breeches suit, of which
I was forcibly reminded in ‘ Lady Ursula,’ appeared as the .
Spider and gave hint of her genius for comedy with
which we are now so admiringly familiar. Mr. Brough
was the Wilfrid Denver, &c., &c. Then came ‘Little
Jack Sheppard,’ &c., &c. . . This burlesque season is
notable as marking the break away of the Broughs from,
the comic-opera stage, and their entrance into the more
serious and artistic spheres of the drama. . . It w-as
just about this time that the Brough and Boucicault
Comedy Co. was formed, and took up its abode in the
new Bijou." The foolishness of talking from a bad
memory ! Fact is that the Broughs,' soon after the
old Firm’s productions of ■“ lolanthe” and “Tambour
Major” at the Royal were incorporated in said Firm’s
new comedy co. which “ The Magistrate ” and
numerous other comedies (“ Glass of Fashion ” was one)
at the Bijou, ihe theatre being at that time sub-let to
Williamson, Garner and Musgrove by Majeroni and Wil-
son. It was in “ The Magistrate ” that both Brough and
Mrs. Brough made their first notable successes as light
comedians in Australia. After the Bijou season, and prior
i;o his going to England with young Boucicault to form a
co. of their own, Brough played a couple of special en-
gagements in “ Falka ” and “ Princess Toto ” at the Opera
House. Those were his last comic-opera appearances.
On returning from England the new firm of B. and B.
opened at the Opera House with Henry Harwood as
“ associate manager.” They started with “ Turned Up,”
other farcical comedies foliow'ed before they got to
that “ Silver Guilt ” burlesque whereof the erring retro-
spector talks so wisely. And, as for Mrs. Brough’s alleged
appearance in black satin knee-beeeches suit, the present
scribe doesn’t remember it at all, and he wasn’t forcibly
reminded of it in “Lady Ursula,” and he can’t under-
stand how anyone with a memory like Retrospector’s
can be forcibly reminded of aught that happened on the
stage 15 years ago. Mrs. Brough dressed the part of the
Spider in ordinary man’s clothes—dress suit, light over-
coat, tall hat, &c. So there now !
“Scribe”: Nance O’Neil is poorly supported in
“ Tess ” at Her Majesty’s, Melb. and it would have been
wiser had Williamson kept this melancholic show for the
Crane combination. The American girl is rather too
lumpy for Hardy’s much-pursued heroine too, but she is
superb in the one fine dramatic scene of the drama, after
the knifing of Tess’s protector. Here she strikes the actual
top-note of tragedy. It is only one note, but it still
haunts my nights. Angel has entered and discovered
Tess standing, white, dumb, stunned, mechanically
brushing at her hair like a woman in a dream. He look
in at the body and throws a coakaboutthe gn-l
whisDerine her to come away. What t she cries
sharply loudly, exactly like the cry you hear when you
in a silent house and someone suddenly utters
a terrified call in his sleep. That momentary effect is
compensation for some solid wads of dullness.
London There's no arguing with the illuminated
Ibsenites. They explain their faith in the unanswerable
way of an Adelaide Critic believer, who says - Ibsen
does not write for the multitude ;he f ° r ] t |'®
chosen few, the brightest minds, and makes absolutely no
concession to intellects less alert. Not many men under
stand him, and ladies are hopelessly befogged in the
strange atmosphere of his philosophy. Ibsen s voice is
that of one crying in the wilderness foretelling a new era
—an era that may never be (“ foretelling what may never
be ”is good)—and to appreciate him you must take to the
study of his work an active mind void of prejudices, and
a keen sympathy based on a conviction of the utter lolly
of most of our accepted ideals.” A man who gets on a
pedestal and assumes himself to be the only fellow in the
crowd capable of understanding the foolishness of things
is evidently a first cousin to the simpering cntic in one of
Du Maurier’s old Punch sketches. Du Mauner s johnnie,
striking an attitude of admiration before an alleged vvork
of art, said : “ It’s a beautiful pictchaw ! His friend
protested—“ The figure-drawing is vile, the coloring
crude, and the perspective all wrong.” “No mat tab, it s
a beautiful pictchaw,” droned the johnnie. Heavens,
man, where is the beauty?” roared the other fellow.
“In the pictchaw,” droned johnnie. He belonged to the
chosen few —the fewah the bettah.
The first Australian impersonator of Camille was Mary
Provost, who appeared in the 50’s. She was far gone in
consumption, and made the death-scene sufficiently grue-
some. Her chief supporter was Neil Warner as Armand
—an actor of talent who somehow never contrived to do
himself justice.
Sydney is much amused ab the manner in
which Hordern and Lassetter are “ poking it ” at
each other in their morning-paper advts. The
lawyers begin to look upon the duel with in-
terested and expectant eyes.
N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. reports
that for the past week wheat transactions have been
limited. London cables indicate an easier feeling, and
local values have still further receded. Northern District
promises a splendid harvest. Quotations : Prime Milling,
2s. 9£d. ; Good, to 2s. Sjd. ; Pinched, 2s. sd. to 2s. 7d.,
according to condition ; Chickwheat, 2s. 3d. to 2s. 4d.
per bushel.*
A record sea-speed of 37 113 knots (43
statute miles good) was recently put up by the
British turbine-engined “destroyer” Viper.
This would be smart railway-travelling, but the
turbine is expected yet to give considerably higher
figures, if a still greater steam-force can be pro-
vided. The talk is now of 40 knots, or a shade
under 46 miles.
In Maoriland, out of 117 prisoners released
last year under the First Offenders Act, 38 carried
out the conditions of license, 4 were re-arrested,
and 75 still rema in under supervision. Out of
£461 costs ordered to be paid, half has been re-
ceived and the rest is to be paid by instalments.
The approximate cost of keeping this crowd in
prison would have been £3715. Of the 1120
persons placed on probation since 1886, 926 have
been discharged after carrying out the imposed
conditions; 67 were re-arrested, 1 suicided, 2 died,
1 was asylumed, 27 absconded, and 96 still remain
fulfilling the terms of license.
Etiquette has hitherto demanded that
M’s.L.A. should confine their questions strictly to
their own electorates, but with a Federal seat as a
possibility members have now to make themselves
solid over a wider area. John Norton waxed in-
dignant t’other day because a member of a constitu-
ency adjoining his own (Northumberland) had
been trying to attract the free and independent of
latter electorate by plying Ministers with ques-
tions re what will be the combined Federal Con-
stituency. On appeal Premier Lyne joined in
condemning the practice, and promised that he
would not answer such questions in future.


You Should Have
Every Number
m
m
OF TIIE
Australian
fflusie
Books
iSS" From this date we will publish consecutively
in The Bulletin the contents of every number of
the “ Australian Music Books.” Every one is a
marvellous shilling’s worth.
No. 1.
Ten Popular Songs.
The Song that Reached My
Heart
The Arab’s Farewell to His
Steed
Let Me Like a Soldier Fall
Wallace
I Dreamt that I Dwelt
—Balfe
The Wolf —Shield
The Heart Bowed Down
—Balfe
Waiting —Millard
There is a Flower that
Bloometh
Hearts and Homes Blockley
The Anchor’s Weighed
—Braham
No. 2.—Favorite Piano-
forte Pieces.
Largo (The Celebrated)
—Handel
Sultan’s Grand March
—Blake
Fairies’ Frolic, The Sudds
True Love Gavotte Besch
Merry Peasant, The
' —Schumann
Maiden’s Prayer, The
—Badarzewska
Signal March, The Kleber
Ray of Sunshine, A Le Due
Robin’s Return, The
—Fisher
Indiana Valse Marcailhou
Christmas Piece, A
—Mendelssohn
Price - One Shilling;
or POSTED, Is. 2d.
Obtainable at all Music-sellers throughout Aus-
tralasia, or direct from the Publishers,
ALLAN & CO. 276 & 278 Collins-st.,
Proprietary Ltd. Melbourne.
AHIUS KM ICNT for OLD and IO UNO.
Wonderful Value-a Packet of Seven Different Articte
comprising Joker’s Love Bond, or Siamese Links ; Parisian
•Skirt Dance (a book bound and can be carried in vest
pocket), Book of Conjuring Tricks, Klondyke Grub (which
causes roars of laughter), Yankee Rubber Baby (can be
carried in vest pocket and blown out to life-size, to the
astonishment of all), Wizard Fish (gives the definition of
vonr character, very superior, for parlor entertainments)
Wizard Pack of Cards (can be changed as you please,
insl ructions enclosed).
This splendid Packet posted to any address in Aus-
tralasia Free on receipt of 2s. 6d.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
718 George-street, SYDNEY.
XH. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
(Mention this paper when writing.)
Mrs. E.
/LYNN
UNTON,
The Famous Authoress
writes —
Brougham House,
Maevern,
January 16th, 1896.
“ I have used your‘KOKO’now since
June last, and I have not only stopped
the falling out, which had been ex-
cessive after a severe illness, but I
have an entirely new growth of hair,
while the old hair is longer. As lain
not a young woman, but an old one,
I think this is a convincing test of
your preparation.”
‘KOKO*
Eradicates Scurf and Daudriff, Prevents
Hair Falling, Promotes Growth, and is the
Best Dressing for the Hair Perfectly
Ha ■ wless. Clean, Cooling, and Invigorating,
and its unique testimonials prove it to be
undcubtedly the Best Preparation for the
Hair, i 3/6 and 4 6 sizes, of all Chemists,
Hairdressers, Stores, &c.
THE KOKO MARICOPAS CO,, LTD,, J
16, Bevis Marks, London, England, J
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10/el.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of various sizes supplied.
90 King-st., Sydney
(OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS),
WATCH MANUFACTURERS
90 King-st., Sydney
(OUR ONLY AUSTRALIAN ADDRESS),
ART JEWELLERS, &c.
OUR LATEST PATRIOTIC BROOCH.
f(P '
Solid Gold Sword, with Red, White and Blue Enamel
Union Jack Flag-, 20s.
Gold Union Jack Scarf Pins and Pendants, 8s 6d each.
LATEST
NOVELTY.
TWIN BROOCH,
Plain Gold Bird and
Pearl-set Lovers’
Knot, 16s 6d.
Same Style,
with Pearl-set Bird,
and Lovers’ Knot,
20s.
GOLD TWIN SWALLOW BROOCHES.
Full size, 9c., 10s 6d and 12s 6d ; 15c., 17s 6d pair.
GOLD TWIN BROOCHES.
London Made, 9c.. 12s 6d ; 15c., 17s 6d pair.
SOLID GOLD,
With Bell or Gem Heart
Pendant, 16s 6d.
REGS
Without Pendant, 13s 6d.
Extra Strong-.
No Pin to Break.
Latest Novelty.
Solid Gold Pin. Chain, Heart, Bell
and Lucky Bean, 7s 6d.
Solid Gold Lucky Pig
Charm, 7s 6d.
With Pin & Chain, 10/6
\\ wfm
Finest Enamel on
Silver Gilt.
Souvenir of
Sydney.
Stamp Oharrn, 3s.
Solid Gold
Faith, Hope,
and Charity
PENDANT,
5s each.
With Pin and
Chain, 8s 6d.
Solid Goid. Lucky
Bean, Gem Set,
with any Name,
5s ; with Pin and
Chain, 8s 6d.
15c. Gold
and
13 First
Quality
Pearls, 255.
Latest
Novelty
Lyre and
Treble Clef
Brooch.
15c. Double
BROOCH,
with Chain
and Treble
Clef, 455.
Extra
Strong
and
Finely
Finished.
Please Send for our
Illustrated Slips of
Latest Novelties.
All Goods
Post
Solid Gold
Patriotic
Brooch,
with
Infantry
or
Gordon
Highlander
Charm,
17s 6d each.
Gold Charm,
Infantry
or Gordon
Highlander, ss.
With
Pin and Chain,
8s 6d.
Q ® 0
I 2 3
SOARF& LAOE
1 Gold Bead, 1/6 ; Larger size, 3/-, 4/-.
2 Turquoise, 3/- ; „ ~ 5/-, 10/-.
3 Real Pearl, 3/-; „ ~ 4/6, 7/6.
PINS.
POST FREE.
Set with 19 Turquoise, or assorted Pearls
and Turquoise.
SPECIAL
VALUE.
10s 6d each
LAI'ESf NOVELty
Sworjo
Bf^ooch
Gold-plated
on
Solid Silver,
and
Beautifully Finished.
Our Registered Novelty
BIRD BROOCH,
Extra Strong.
REG°
9c. Gold,
16s pair.
15c. Gold,
20s pair.
Our New
TWIN
BIRD
BROOCHES.
Plain Gold.
7s 6d pair.
With Two
Amethyst
Hearts,
13s 6d pair.
Gold Pin and Chain Charms, with
Lucky Bean, 7/6. Smaller size, 6/6
Lucky Bell, 7/6. ~ „ 4/6
Heart, 7/6. ~ ~ 5/6
Cross, 8/-. Larger size, 10/6
Lucky Bells with Chain, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6
With Faith, Hope,
and Charity, 8s (id.
Charm only, os 6d.
Gold Pin,
Chain, and
Gem Set
. :.,-2
X
< *
__
Novelty Pin, Chain, and Gold Emu or
Kangaroo, 8s 6d. Charm, only 5s each.
IM
LATEST
NOVELTY TWIN
BROOCH,
Pearl Set Bird and
Heart, 15s.
50 other Patterns.
Same Style, with
Plain Gold Bird and
Pearl Set Heart,
12s 6d.
Solid Gold SWORD BROOCH.
With Bell or-Gem Heart
Pendant, 16s 6d.
REGS
Without Pendant, 13s 6d.
Extra Strong.
No Pin to Break.
it N.S.W. politician to his constituents :
At any rate, I never read my speeches in the
House. An elector, emphatically : “Neither do
we.
Vosper of the Mane will presumably look
for a fresh seat since the W.A. goldfields gave
that solid vote for Federation. The Long-Haired
One was a strong Federalist when the Federal
cause seemed doubtful, and ratted just when vic-
tory was in sight. He evidently miscalculated
the chances. The public for a little while almost
looked forward to the time when Vosper, with his
haircut, would hold a portfolio in Forrest’s anti-
Federal Ministry. But just after Vosper came
over to join Forrest on the anti-Federal side, For-
rest went over to Federalism. It is a sad, sad,
thing to leave your principles to join a
man who has billets to give away, and then find
that that man isn’t there when you arrive.
At a Sydney missionary meeting,
t’other night, a speaker graphically described
the progress in civilisation of the Japs,
attributing same to > the influence of Christian
missions. What about the massacre of 50,000
converts of Xavier in 1603, followed by the post-
ing of public notices throughout the land to the
effect that if the Christian’s God was found in
Japan he would be beheaded? Also the continuous
rigid exclusion of foreigners till 1853? The
missions were responsible for that. The present
progress in civilisation is attributable to the forced
opening of the treaty-ports in 1854, and the con-
sequent discovery by the utterly materialistic Jap
that the new intruders were not proselytisers but
men of trade by whom they could profit. Marquis
Ito, the maker of New Japan, said : “ I never ex-
pected Japan would become a Christian nation,
for Christianity is a religion which no thinking
man could accept. Its only use here would be as
an agent to bring us into line with Western civili-
sation.” Again: “Japan should adopt Chris-
tianity as a convention along with the dress-coat.”
And the missionaries flatter themselves that Japan
takes them seriously !
Hobart Mercury still bitterly reproaches
the British Government at intervals for not badly
mutilating the Commonwealth Bill. Its theory
is that the most loyal intellects of Australia
trusted to the great mind of Chamberlain and Co.
to put into shape the crude work of the deficient
Australian intelligence, and that Chamberlain and
Co. failed in their duty. The Mercury calls this
“ betraying those who trusted them ” and other
hard names. Boiled down the Mercury’s views
are these:
(1) We (Mercury) held that it must be a crude, imper-
fect. Bill because it was drawn up by our own people who,
by reason of the deficiencies of the Australian mind,
are not equal to that sort of thing. We trusted to
Chamberlain’s great intellect to put things right.
(2) Chamberlain said it was a very good Bill and didn’t
need putting right. As a man of great intellect he ought
to know.
(3) Now we (Mercury) with our poor deficient Austra-
lian intellect, lecture this great man for being such a fool
as not to know a bad Bill when we tell him it is bad.
(4) Our prayer and attitude is : “ O, great man, we are
but an intellectual worm, and trust entirely to your
vast intelligence to see the deficiencies in our work and
put them right. And if you don’t see the deficiencies
you are a mere idiot, for we tell you there are deficiencies
and we know a great deal better than you do. There-
fore we humbly submit ourselves to your guidance and
better knowledge, and if you say, in your better know-
ledge, that our work isn’t nearly so bad as we think, you
are a liar and a mule, for our knowledge is much better
than yours. We are ah o by comparison with you, and
if you don’t agree with us about our being a worse fool
than you then you are a worse fool than we.
It is a curious position, when you come to think
it over.
An Australian, lately from S’Africa, states
that the newly-arrived “Tommies” had the
haziest ideas about Boers and their history. One
Tommy asked him if he had ever seen a real Boer,
and when he explained that he was 12 years out
in the country, the interested warrior said, “ Then
you know what they’re like. What are they like 1 '
Old, grey-bearded blankers, ain’t they?” On
hearing that Boers varied in their ages and
weights like other people, and were often fine-
looking fellows, the Tommy remarked, “ Oh,
well, they’re goin’ to git done bad, any’ow.”
Writing to a Bulletin correspondent, a
nurse who was on board gives an interesting
picture of the voyage of the American hospital
ship Maine to aid S’African wounded :
The Maine left London Dec. 24th. Lady Randolph
Churchill had a large reception-room, a bath-room, and
a bed-room on the promenade deck and played the great
lady philanthropist with much fuss and feather. The
skilled nurses and other folk were very small potatoes.
Some of them were put to such work as scrubbing decks,
and various other duties of seamen. On January 4th,
Lady Churchill had every scrap of religious litera-
ture —tracts, Bibles, periodicals, leaflets, &c., brought
up on deck and the whole pitched overboard for
the moral instruction of the fishes. But, to compen-
sate, she had the ship ransacked for caramels which “ she
knew were somewhere.” Finally thev were found and she
distributed 50 boxes among the orderlies and nurses.
Jan. 10th was Lady O.’s birthday, and the Maine crossed
the line, dressed in all her bravery of flags. The custom-
ary initiation of men who had never crossed the line before
was carried out while Lady C. and her companion, Miss
Warrender, stationed themselves on the bridge with
kodaks to get snap-shots of the different victims as they
were being lathered and shaved by Father Neptune’s
barber. The head of the non-commissioned staff of the
Medical Corps—an American —was badly handled and
dragged out of the rigging by the crew. They got
him up to the tub of tar and slush when
all the Americans rushed to his aid. The English-
men helped their side and there was a
free fight. Finally the Americans prevailed and
their man was not shaved. But Lady Churchill
came down from the bridge and lectured him for damag-
ing her fun, told him he was poor-spirited, had no sense
of humor, and had spoilt everything by his stubbornness.
The Maine reached Cape Town Jan. 21st. A round of
wild gaiety began. Sir Alfred Milner and-other poten-
tates came on board, and there was a big English recep-
tion on shore with Americans absent ! Durban was
reached Jan. 29—brilliant breakfasts, receptions, lun-
cheons, dinners, and teas were the order of every day.
When the first trainful of wounded soldiers came iii from
Pietermaritzburg Lady C. and Miss W. put red crosses on
their arms and went forth with a kodak to meet the
trains. The ship looked very much like Lady C.’s
pleasure-yacht. There were no lectures, no instructions
given ; the time was passed in lounging, drinking,
cigarette-smoking—by ladies as well as men. The badly-
wounded soldiers got everything they wanted on the re-
turn journey, but the convalescents were not allowed
the beer and stout which had been put on board for them.
At Durban 1000 cases of crackers, each containing 36
packets, were converted into cash, Lady C. deciding that
as money was running short thev could be sold. The
Maine was back at Cape Town March 21st, and there was
thore gaiety. Col. Rhodes was a guest on board and was
entertained largely on shore. More stores were sold, and
on 23rd the Maine sailed. At St. Helena there was more
fun, and more of the supplies were converted into cash.
On April 15th the Maine reached Madeira. The wounded
were most anxious to reach England as soon as possible,
especially Sergt. Grantham, of the Army Hospital Corps,
who was very ill. The ship was to have sailed at 4 p.m.,
but Lady C. dined ashore and did not return till very
late. Sergt. Grantham died at midnight. Lady C. begged
for another day ; the captain granted it, but when yet
another was asked for, she was informed that if not back
at the ship by a certain time the ship would sail without
her. After leaving Madeira Lady C. was very charming
to everybody and the nurses all had their salaries raised.
We reached London on March 23rd, and Heaven preserve
me from such another trip !


FOR TWO WEEKS MORE!
OIDTIE OXJUsTIE-A.
Will Secure a Copy of The London “Times” Reprint of the
Encyclopaedia Britanniea
at half-price, the purchase to be completed by
Honthiy Payments of One Guinea Each.
The unprecedented sale of “The Times” (London) Reprint of the Encyclopaedia Britanniea has nearly exhausted the supply sent out for distribution in New
South Wales. “The Times” gives notice, therefore, that the offer to supply this great work at half-price, and on easy terms of payment will positively be withdrawn
Saturday, September 15. On and after that date no further orders can be accepted for this work at any price. Provision has been made for filling anticipated
orders posted up to midnight on Saturday, September 15. It is possible, however, that the stock in hand will be exhausted before that date, in which event the
offer will cease at once. If you would participate in this offer, therefore, it is advisable that you at Once Send in your order.
m
m
if
m
Jal
Several hundred people in New South Wales are to-day considering whether they shall or shall
not buy the London “ Times ” Reprint of the Ninth Edition of the “ Encyclopaedia Britannica,” and
it may be assumed that in almost every instance their hesitation is due to comparisons which they are
makmgbe tween the Encyclopaedia” and some other object which can be procured at about the same
cost. Hardly anyone who is likely to read this advertisement is so circumstanced that the immediate
°* twenty-one shillings, and the prospects of making certain further payments of twenty-one
s mlings each, need be very alarming. But even among the more fortunately-situated classes there is
a limit to the number of available guineas, to the number of procurable pleasures. Opportunities to
spend money increase at a rate of compound interest which surpasses even the power of money to
beget money. I rom the child with the halfpenny in its palm, making its choice among the sweets in
the shop-window to the land-owner who doubts which one of two estates he shall add to his posses-
sions, we are all forced to undergo one acquisition for the sake of another. Is the acquisition of the
Encyclopaedia Bntanmca that which should be foregone ?
I**? the purpose of this advertisement to settle some of the doubts which delay the purchase of
the Encyclopaedia, and this can only be done by endeavoring to give these doubts, which are prone
to be themselves somewhat vague and formless, a definite and assailable form. At best this is but a
conjectural task. The wisest of the 1100 wise men who made the “ Encyclopaedia Britannica ” never
knew, and never will know, why certain people do not buy the book. He helped to make it; he
knows that it is a book worth buying; he is proud of it, and can defend it against any criticism. If
a man said to him : Sir, I desire, since you are one of the writers who wrote this book, to explain
to you upon what grounds I refrain from purchasing it,” he would be interested, and if he
were in the humour for chopping logic, he would no doubt find it easy to convince his
adversary. But all written descriptions of a book go out into silent space like pieces of paper
tossed into the air from the car of a balloon. One reader recognises the fact that a
great opportunity is presented to him, and he buys the book. The next man who reads the advertise-
ment is unconvinced—perhaps because he thinks the book costs too much money, perhaps because he
thinks it takes too much room, perhaps because he thinks he is too old to read' it, perhaps because he
thinks his children are too young to read it, perhaps for no other reason than that he has glanced at the
otter and thought no more about it. If he has given any consideration to the advisability of buying
or not buying the Encyclopedia Britannica,” he has perhaps thought of it as a book, and thought of
its price as the price of a book. Herein lies an error. One must for convenience speak of it as a book
but ail sorts of confusion will be avoided if one does not think of it as a book.
It is in truth a library of books, a collection intended for reading, study, and reference.
If its five-and-twenty quarto volumes were reduced to small octavos, the “ Encyclopedia ” would
occupy half-a-dozen shelves of an ordinary bookcase. If 500 of the more copious among its 16 000
articles were printed as distinct volumes they would make a library of 500 of the most valuable books
one could have. But all the matter has been run together for convenience. It was not necessary to
tr j a sl;ior t story into a long story in order that a brief discussion of some one subject might be
made to fill a volume, nor was it necessary to cramp the writer’s thoughts and distress the reader’s eve
m order that a spacious treatise should be forced between the two covers of an arbitrary size A fur-
ther advantage of this plan of arrangement is that one copious index can definitely point the wav to
ail that is m the various books. J
In the ordinary way, when one takes a book from a bookshelf one has to turn page after page and
even search through chapter after chapter before one finds the isolated statement, the solitary phrase
the one thing m all the book that is of any service in that moment of immediate need. In the “ . Ency-
clopaedia Bntanmca the reader does not even have to read the whole of an article At the cost of
enormous labor a running digest is printed on the margins of each of the long articles, so that a page
is in many cases broken up into four or five perceptible divisions. All these elaborate methods of sub-
division increase the value of the “Encyclopaedia Britannica,” and serve to mark it as a library a
collection of books, as contra distinguished from a single book. J ’
This view of the book is the only point of departure for an examination of its price.
«<rru Th m- twe^,t^ five . vol l uraes in th , e binding were originally catalogued by the publishers at £37
• i, 16 iime ® . Reprint has recently been sold, and will be sold until the 15th of September for £l7
m the same binding. Under the novel system of monthly payments which has been adopted, the
purchaser, instead of sending a cheque for £l7 to the Manager of “The Times” (New South Wale'
Office, Sydney), need only pay one guinea before the 25 volumes have been delivered to him, and then
complete the purchase by 16 further monthly payments of one guinea each.
What other Library can be bought for such a sum ?
One may buy an edition of the standard poets, but the standard poets do not answer questions.
One may buy a collection of engravings for the same money, but there is no such collection in existence
which, like the nine thousand illustrations of the “Encyclopaedia Britannica,” may be called a
systematised pictorial library of art and science. No matter how many other books one may have
bought before one buys the “Encyclopaedia Britannica,” and no matter how many other books one
may hope to buy after one has bought the “ Encyclopaedia Britannica, ” the “Encyclopaedia” is the
book to buy next. It is not, however, possible to arrive at this conclusion and to go no further. One
c < ini ) o f say, “ Yes, I will buy the ‘ Encyclopaedia Britannica ’ before I buy any other book ; I will buy
the ‘ Encyclopaedia Britannica ’ after Quarter Day,” for when quarter-day comes it will be too late to
buy the Encyclopaedia Britannica ”at the present prices and upon the existing terms. “ The Times ”
Reprint was published in accordance with certain arrangements made by The Times, and by Messrs.
.• ai B. Black, the publishers of the “ Encyclopaedia Britannica.” These arrangements made it pos-
sible for the moment to procure the “ Encyclopaedia Britannica ” at a reduction of more than 55 per
Ce i n - t 'i f m m the ori S inal publisher’s price, but on the 15th of September, eight weeks from the day on
which The Times Reprint of the “ Encyclopaedia Britannica ” was first offered to the New South
Wales public, these arrangements cease to be operative, and those who fail to buy the work within the
limited time will, if they desire to procure it on the 16th day of September, be obliged either to do
witliout it or send to England, wait three months for the books, and pay carriage and other costs from
All of the other arguments in favor of the purchase of the work could have been equally well
advanced ten years ago, when the Ninth Edition was completed, and will be equally valid ten years
hence. But this is the argument of the hour, this is the consideration which appeals to the purchaser
who wants to get the best value for his money.
.To buy The Times Reprint of the “ Encyclopiedia Britannica” is not a formidable under-
taking. It is not like buying a house that one must compare with other desirable houses, that one
must visit and revisit, of which the drains and the walls and the sub-cellars must be examined and
tested, the title-deeds to which must be scrutinised by solicitors.
It is only necessary to send a guinea to the New South Wales office of “ The Times,” Svdnev
accompanied by an order form, m order to secure the immediate delivery of the 25 volumes. It is’
indeed, one of those operations which are so simple that one unconsciously classes them among the
things which one can do at any time, from which one turns away to do more complicated things. But
untll m °l row p™. Will be very likely to postpone it for three weeks, until he
loses altogether the greatest bargain which is to be found in the whole world of books.
Special to Intending: Purchasers.
, Betters and telegrams have been received from various parts of New South Wales, enquiring how
long it will take for the Encyclopaedia Britannica” to arrive from London. ®
In reply to such, we desire to state that all shipments are made direct from Sydney where a
h “ l Th “° " h °
of H.fe Ed
Reprint of the ENOYCLOP JSDIA BRITANNICA in the se?esL?b”»dh,g“ A sampleo™ Re-
“ al ” be Se “' a “ d orders tor ‘ h « »>*'] the Bookcasemay begiven SiSt
Temporary Prices for Two Weeks Only!
Sufficient provision has been
made for the filling of orders
promptly posted, but applicants
who hesitate may find that the
number of sets reserved for New
South Wales has been exhausted,
and that the offer has been with-
drawn, without further notice.
CLOTH
BINDING
17 Monthly Payments of One Cuinea, each
or, if cash ik full accompanies the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding-, £37]
£l7
HALF
MOROCCO
(Which we
recommend)
22 Monthly Payments of One Guinea each,
or, it cash in full accompanies the order ,
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding-, £4s]
£22
FULL.
MOROCCO
29 Monthly Payments of One Guinea each,
or, if cash in full accompanies the order
[Publishers’ Price for this style of Binding, £6s]
£29
The Sets will be Delivered to Subscribers Carefully Sealed in Tin-lined Cases.
The first 1000 Subscribers in New South Wales will receive their Sets Delivered
Free of Cost as far as Sydney, where stock is carried temporarily.
ORDER FORM-CASH PAYMENT.
Subscribers who elect to send Cheque
in full with the order have the advan-
tage of an additional saving of one shilling in the guinea, as shown above, and no order form is required
should be drawn to the order of the Bank of New South Wales, Sydney, and sent to The Times
Mutual Life of New York Buildings, Sydney.
Cheques
(London),
ORDER FORM—MONTHLY PAYMENT.
(Date)
To the Manager, “ The Times ” (London), New South Wales Office,
Mutual Life of New York Buildings, Sydney.
I enclose One Guinea. Please send me “ The Times ” Reprint of the Encyclopaedia Britannica (9th Ed.)
BOUND
IN
(A) CLOTH, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone you may ap-'i
, \ .. monthly payments of one guinea each.
(b) HALF MOROCCO, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone vou I
riM\ ay M?fDrtk^« aC l difcio^ al u n T onthly P a 3’ me nts of one guinea each, f
(e) FULL MOROCCO, for which I agree to make to you, or to anyone you
may appoint, 28 additional monthly payments of one guinea each. J
[Strike out two of the
paragraphs marked a,
b, and c respectively,
leaving the one which
names the style of
binding desired.]
shall not be disposed of by sale or otherwise. I further a-ree that S owbi r.n nwf r . emam / our Property, and
saasr luds *' ■*• voiumes c * nnot be **•««•«»*-»»< «* **# * «.issn?tras'2a®
Please also send a Revolving Bookcase, for which I agree to make three further month!,, \
payments of one guinea each, after the payments for the books are complete.
Strike out if Bookcase
is not desired.
[Syd. Bul. HV. 150.]
igned
Address
If books are to be delivered elsewhere than
carrier (rail or boat) in Sydney to whom delivery is to be
in Sydney, the purchaser shall add here the
made for forwarding.
name of the


The allies have got to Pekin, but they’ve
got to get back !—and American General Chaffee
guesses that’s going to be a mighty tall contract.
A London thief-paper, Photo Bits, cribs
from The Bulletin many drawings by Souter.
The signature is always carefully cut out, unless
it can’t be omitted without spoiling the picture.
Byron Moore’s fairy-tale book published
for the _ benefit of Melb. Children’s Hospital is
interesting in more than one respect. The simple
up-to-date humor of the yarns has some very
clever illustrations by the late F. S. Sheldon.
Fourteen members of Victoria’s Leg.
Council come to the end of their term this month,
and by all appearances every one of them will go
back unopposed. Men with the required property
qualification, with a taste for politics, able to
spend a great part of their time in Melbourne,
and willing to work without salary in a House
where there is hardly any prospect of rising to
political greatness, are very few, and the few are
mostly Tories, so it isn’t worth while rousing up
Hie Tory who is out to oppose the Tory who Is in.
The Victorian House of 48 Rich Landlords prac-
tically dropped the hollow pretence of being an
elective body even so many years ago.
S.A. Leg. Council declined, by 13 votes to
10—which, with the President, accounts for the
whole Chamber—to enfranchise all householders
and their wives ; but it has agreed to give the suf-
frage to the wives of all present electors (the rental
qualification being £25 yearly and the freehold
qualification £5O land value), and to enroll all
Crown lessees who own improvements worth £2OO.
The Govt, shows an inclination to accept this small
concession, in the hope that it will lead to better
things hereafter. The rich man, they argue, has
got his wife on the rolls already, and so it will be
the middle-classes and the working-man who will
gain by the amendment.
The final results of the Federal Referen-
dum in Westralia show: —Federal votes, 44,700;
anti-Federal, 19,691; Federal majority, 25,009.
The goldfields supplied 24,394 of the majority, so
even without them the Federal party would have
pulled through with 615 to the good. The
big Federal majority in the eight Perthmantle
electorates was a revelation. Curiously enough,
however, the boss Federal vote was at lone, remote
bullock-raising Kimberley, which went Federal by
57 to 1. The one solitary Parochial vote was cast
at Turkey Creek. Wyndham and Hall’s Creek
and Wild Dog were Federal to a man.
Be the cabled announcement that two Aus-
tralasians have been selected by their comrades to
receive scarves made by the Queen herself as re-
wards for bravery in S’Africa. Gen. Evelyn
Wood relates how the first man elected by his
comrades in the Crimea to receive the Victoria
Cross was the man who used to carry the grog-can
daily to the trenches, and who, never having been
under fire for more than half-an-hour a day, had
never been in any particular danger. He was
simply elected because he was an extremely useful
and comforting person. The soldier who has
really seen war is rather scornful of deeds
of mere ecldt, and prefers the useful person who
simply does his duty. Apropos, the fact that no
Victoria-cross has yet come Australia-wards is
rather rough on the two young fellows who, it
was announced, had been recommended for the
distinction, and who bore themselves so modestly
that it was plain they had taken no hand in
advertising themselves over the matter.
Be the recent acquittal, in Tasmania, of a
half-caste Chinese girl who had shot two men (one
fatally) for, as alleged, trying to force their way
into the house in which she was alone — The Bul-
letin is informed that there is a somewhat different
side to the story. The house from which the
shooting took place is in any case, it is alleged,
“ within call of the Chinese camp, and situated on
clear ground, so that the girl could have got away
by the other door and reached the camp aforesaid
before the men could have known she had
escaped.” The people in the neighborhood, who
know a lot more of the matter than has got into
print, consider that there has been a gross mis-
carriage of justice. The fact that the men were
ten yards away from the house when they were
shot looks awkward, in view of the assertion that
they were shot for trying to force their way into
the house.
“ A Resident ” to The Bulletin :
Although the Chief Judge in Equity on Monday last
granted an injunction restraining N.S.W. Govt, from
allowing a continuance of the rifle-shooting on Randwick
Range, said shooting has since gone on merrily as ever.
It was stated on behalf of the Govt, that its military
authorities had advised it that it was very improbable
that bullets would, as stated, pass over the hill at the
rear. But it is an absolute fact that we residents in the
Coogee neighbourhood have for some time had bullets
flying around, and, in some cases, into our houses. I
saw a boy actually wounded some time ago by a bullet
which gianced from the iron roof of a shed in my yard,
and only the other day one of my sons barely escaped
being shot through the head. Numerous other residents
can testify to the arrival of bullets upon their premises;
and, in view of such unpleasantly hard facts, it’s a bit
ridiculous to maunder about theoretical “ improba-
bility.”
r Slab from Hobart Mercury’s London
letter which, judged from what appears in the
Mercury’s leading columns, surely must have
escaped editorial notice:
The Boers .... foemen worthy of our steel. It is
very significant that one rarely hears a hard word said
about them in the United Kingdom, and from invalided
colonial officers I hear the Australian soldiers have a very
kindly feeling towards the peasant soldiers of the veldt.
M
USEUM of art, physiology and
ANATOMY.
QUEEN’S HALL, „
Pitt-st., Opposite SENSATION
CRITERION THEATRE. OF THE HOUR.
VISITED ET THOUSANDS.
LECTURES AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
Matinee Lectures at 3 p.ra., Mondays, Wednesdays and
Fridays, FOR LADIES ONLY.
OPEN DAILY, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. ADMISSION, 2a.
■V
o
z
RNS
OLD
FING
\S>
CHA
<2
"V
&.C
Qne:
H
Y
P *op
r *£tors . *
More Queensland testimony as to Queens-
land defections. Letter to Cookieb (August 24)
says: —“We are having plenty of workout here
with patrols by day and Cossack posts by night,
as there are less than 50 men to draw ivom-rfifty
out of 4001 Where all the rest get to I don’t
know. There were only 37 of the Second Contin-
gent in the ranks as we marched into Pretoria,
and I think 22 out at Bronker’s Spruit, the
battle 14 miles north of Pretoria.” Same corre-
spondent declares how 40 Queenslanders chased
100 Boers into some hilly country, when a rifle-
duel opened. Both parties fired until all the
ammunition was exhausted. Result —“ One
fellow was shot through the coat.” Evidently,
there’s a terrible waste of lead in S’Africa just
now.
| (The Acetylene Miners’ Lamps, introduced by
the Acetylene Gas 00. of Australia, Ltd., have proved a
great success and are now largely used in the mines
throughout the colony. The company has lately been
rushed with orders for lighting up gold-mining dredges
owing to the many advantages offered by the light for
that purpose. It would be well for mine and dredge
owners to ascertain full information as to cost, etc., from
the Head Office of the Company, 36 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Patents fob Inventions— Arthur Griffith,
International Patent Agent and Consulting
Engineer, University Chambers, Phillip-street,
Sydney. Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights,
obtained throughout the world.
The Sydney Wharves Resumption, which
might have been the beginning of a new era of
honesty and common-sense, is apparently going to
be the same old swindle as all the other resump-
tions. There is no provision for basing the pay-
ments on municipal valuations, land-tax valua-
tions, rental returns, or any other fixed basis
whatever. Values are to be fixed by the law-
courts —the same process which has always led to
the State paying about twice the fair and honest
price for the property. That hired humorist, the
“expert,” who swore a few months ago that a
resumed property was worth, say, only £50,000 for
probate purposes, will doubtless now turn up
as usual and swear that it is worth, say, £150,000.
The owner who gets £lOO,OOO for his pro-
perty when he has for years paid tax on a
■municipal valuation of £30,000, isn’t made liable
for his back rates or for the land-tax he has
diddled the Department out of. The Lyne Govt,
follows woodenly in the steps of its predecessors,
and there are no new ideas in it —except when it
sends two “assistant paymasters” with the
Chinese contingent.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION.
Apply Sulpholine Lotion. It drives away
pimples, blotches, roughness, redness, and all dis-
figurements. Sulpholine developes a lovely skin.
Is. bottles. Made in London.*
The Tasmanian Government, after a
momentary pretence of firmness, has again sagged
at the knees. The Great Western land-grant
railway syndicate has promised to really start
work at last, and' in view of this 55th promise or
thereabouts —the fragments of the other 54 pro-
mises can be found all over the island —the Lewis
Govt, promises to try and persuade Parliament to
give the dreadful “cat’’another year’s extension
of time. It shouldn’t get another second’s exten-
sion,. and its £lO,OOO deposit and its line should be
remorselessly forfeited if the railway isn’t com-
pleted to the tick of the clock. The State has
as much reason to demand that other people shall
abide by their contracts with it, as it has to abide
by its own contracts. It is just because it is a
weak-kneed concern that never enforces its agree-
ments that the syndicates with which it makes
bargains never think it worth while to keep faith
with it. The chances are that inside the next two
years the Federal Parliament will have taken over
the railways, and be prepared to build the Tas.
West Coast lines quicker and on better terms
than any syndicate, and to work them at half the
fares, and for that reason alone the Great Western
“cat” should not receive another penn’orth of
encouragement.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
23 of this issue.*
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature lias not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts, the Lovers' Encyclopfedia will supply the art.
To love is to wish to possess. You can—the knowledge im-
parted by this hook unlocks the gato and you have only to
step in. It considers the whole subject from the time you
meet until you two are one. Valuable chapters also about
dress, personal appearance, cure for bashfulness, and many
other things heretofore secrets. Reproductions of ourious love
letters, anil FIFTEEN HUNDRED tit bits in prose and poetry
that you can find daily use for. ‘2s. Gd. (stamps 2d. extra) will
bring you the book by mail, post free, and incidentally hap.
piiioss with one you love. Anglo-American Pobushing Co.,
Waterloo Chambers, 458 George-st., Sydney, N.S.W. Mention
tlds paper when writing.
“There were some very useful dodges
pre’ dent in the Middle Ages which we are too
squeamish to adopt. For instance, if Mr. Bressi
had a few turns of the thumb-screw he’d soon yell
out all about the bigger blackguards who set him
on to kill Humbert. (Charming passage taken
from tl e columns of Brisbane Figaro, Aug. 25, a
warm supporter of the Philp Government.)
Not a Guessing Competition.
A RECORD. —We
sold 5000 of our
Celebrated WATCHES
and CHAINS at 6/6 in
13 months, and now, to
universally advertise
our famous 4/6 Para-
guayan 14ct. GOLD
CHAINS to every Pur-
chaser of one (either
Gent.’s or Lady’s) we
will present, on pay-
ment of 6/- extra, the
RAILWAY WATCH,
guaranteed, timed to
closest accuracy. It is
a JEWELLED, FULL-DAY, PERFECT LEVER MOVE-
MENT, SHORT-WIND WATCH, wound and hands set
from stem, strong and reliable, same as used on the rail-
ways of Great Britain. They give entire satisfaction.
That is why we send them out on appro., and if returned
within 14 days money is refunded. We make this extra-
ordinary offer merely to circulate our PRICE LIST and to
make ourselves talked about. The Watch and Oh: in is
sent Registered (any colony) on receipt of 10/6 and 6d.
for postage.
ffl
H. POTIER & CO.,
S 3 ROYAL ARCADE,
V^SYDNEY.
SYDNEY . .
Coffee Palace Hotel,
. . LOWER DOMAIN.
It is centrally situated, within 200 yards of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, overlooking the broad acres of
the Domain and Gardens, and the blue waters of
the Harbor.
It is just the house for Country Visitors who
enjoy the luxury of rest and quietness.
All modem conveniences.
Tariff from 255. to 30s. a week.
J. QXJIKT,
LOWER DOMAIN.
Missing Friends.
JAMES GALWAY,
of RICHARD GALWAY and MAR-
GARET RILEY, who was bom while his
parents were living on a farm belonging to a
MRS. LYNDON, situated about fifty miles from
GOULBURN, NEW SOUTH WALES, is
requested to communicate at once with the
undersigned from whom he will hear of something
greatly to his advantage.
ANYONE giving information to the under-
signed as to the whereabouts of the above-named
JAMES GALWAY will be rewarded.
STRINGER & CRESSWELL,
Barristers and Solicitors,
A.M.P. Buildings,
Cathedral Square,
Christchurch, NEW ZEALAND.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity or the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel; the
safest and most gentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNHFORDf
MAGNESIA
HMHS
mk
Sold Throughout the World.
N.8.-ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA,
ANY GENTLEMAN
can, by sending us his address on a Id.
Post Card, have a set of the
NEW PATTERNS OF SPRING
SUITINGS
sent to him Free, gratis, for nothing.
For GENTLEMEN’S WEAR for the Spring:.
Also, Self-Measurement Forms, Tape
Measures, &0., &o.
You can then see what is going to be worn, and
most likely will favor us with an order.
Send for them, Please!
hordernlbrothers,
FEDERAL CLOTHIERS,
203, 205, 207, 209, 211 Pltt-st., Sydney.
Amusements.
FITZGERALD BROS.’
Circus and Menagerie
WITH THE
NEW EUROPEAN COMPANY,
sent out by
MR. T. F. FITZGERALD,
Will Open in Sydney
ON
September 8,
Opposite the Railway Station.
J. MORRIS, Agent*
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY^
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Geo. L. Goodman. Treas., J. B. Moutrie.
Every Evening at 8 o’clock. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
1900. ANNUAL OPERA SEASON. 1900.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS
of the WILLIAMSON OPERA COMPANY in
The Hose of Persia.
Plan, Nicholson’s. .PRICES—6s., 35., 25., and Is.
-|“ H EATR E ROYAL, SYD NEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of BLAND HOLT’S
Unsurpassed Military Spectacle,
The Absent-Minded Beggar.
SATURDAY EVENING, SEPT. 1,
First Production in Sydney of the Absorbing Melo-
dramatic Romance,
HOW LONDON LIVES.
Popular Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Elvjr’s.
RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager .. .. Alfred Damfier.
ALFRED DAM PIER.
AND THE POPULAR COMPANY,
THE POWER OF WEALTH.
SHAKESPEARE FRIDAY, AUGUST 31,
HAMLET.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
CHARLES ARNOLD
and his
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in George H. Broadhurst’s Enormously Successful Farce
Comedy,
What Happened to Jones.
PRICES —ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
L. J. LOHR, Manager.
1C K ARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor and Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
A Real Hearty Australian Welcome Greeted
THE THREE HAYTORS.
A Brilliant Success. Gigantic Reception of America’s
Greatest Horizontal-bar Experts, THE PATTERSON BROS.
Unqualified Success of England’s Burlesque Queen,
BILLEE BARLOW.
OLAF SCHRADER, Billy M’Olain, M. Cordelia, Walker
and May, and all our Great Double Co.
Plan at Paling’s. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday
IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE. ~
Sole Lessee and Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Emphatic Success of the World’s Greatest Pantomimists,
PAUL MARTINETTI
and his Renowned Great Company of Eight, in their
Latest Grand Production,
THE KEYHOLE.
Splendid Success of DAINTY IRENE FRANKLIN, Roy
Oashin, Alma Gray, Will Whitburn, Dora Taylor, Eva Lee,
E. Brinkman, Bob Bell, and all our Great Co.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Matinee every Wednesday.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Under the Sole Management of William Anderson.
THE GREAT ADELPHI SUCCESS,
SERVING THE QUEEN.
The Most Attractive Military Drama.
FOR A LIMITED NUMBER OF NIGHTS.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
, Under the Direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
Bus. Manager, Mr. Geo. Tallis. Treas., Mr. R. Stewart.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 1,
Return to Melbourne of Williamson’s Dramatic Co., for
a brief season. Miss EDITH CRANE, Mr. CECIL
WARD, and Mr. TYRONE POWER in
TRILBY.
Dress Circle and Res. Stalls, 5s ; Stalls and Family Circle,
3s ; Pit and Gallery, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
iMenburys Foods.
A PROGRESSIVE DIETARY, unique In providing nourishment suited to the growing digestive powers of YOUNG INFANTS from
birth upwards, and free from dangerous germs.
The “ Allenburys”
Milk Food No. k
Specially adapted to the first three month* of life.
The “ Allenburys ”
Milk Food No. 2
Similarly adapted to the second three months of llle*
Complete Poods,
STERILIZED, and
needing the addition of'
hot water only.
The “ Allenburys’
Malted Food no. 3
For Infants over six months of age.
To be prepared for use by the
addition of COW'S MILK,
according to directions given.
No. 3 Pood is strongly recommended for Convalescents, Invalids, the Aged, and all requiring a light and easily digested diet.
The London Medical Record writes of it that— “No Better Food Exists.”
PIMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING Free on application to the Wholesale Depot, 484, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE*
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.


A PRAHRAN PROOF,
Drugs, Doctors, and Hospitals prove quite
impotent,
Clements Tonic Brought in and all Diseases
Melt Away.
The Case of
MRS. ELIZABETH HILL.
Another Proof for Sceptics,
Of the many populous suburbs surround-
ing Melbourne not one is to be compared to
Prahran j its main street of thriving stores,
roads bowered in trees, and the beauty and
animation of the whole place, make a most
attractive locality. This was the feeling of
our reporter as he trod tne busy icotpath of
Chapel-street seeking for No. 24 Chatham-
street, the home of Mis. Elisabeth Hill.
This lady’s residence was easily found, for
it is close to the Town Hall and the main
artery of traffic. The lady herself chanced
to be at home, and in answer to our ques-
tions graciously consented to relate her
remarkable experience:—
“Some time ago,” said Mrs. Hill, “I
suffered from one of the accidents peculiar
to married women. X was properly attended
and cared for, yet the shock to my system
was such that no medicine or food would
give me back my past health and vigor.
Something was tadically wrong with me, I
had no recuperative power, and time,
instead of making me stronger, Weakened
me.” _
“Did you go to a doctofr, Mrs. Hill?”
inquired the lepotter.
“ I went to three medical men altogether.
.3Tirst to our regular doctor, who said I was
r>i’flWing from neivous debility ; but his
U/i'iuiment doing me no good, I tried another
f doctor, and later, when my husband went
f to West Australia, I became an out-patient
at the hospital. But the result was always
the same; no matter where I went, the
• drugs prescribed were quite impotent to do
me good.”
“ What were the symptoms, Mrs. Hill, of
this complaint that so set medical skill at
defiance? ’ inquired the pressman.
“1 had a dieadful pain in the back part
of the top of my head, a fearful, horrible,
agonising pain that made me feel I was
going mad. Look ! it turned my hair quite
grey in that spot.” [The reporter here
notices that in the place indicated by Mrs.
Hill her naturally dark hair was streaked
with white.] “I could not sleep at night, nor
get proper rest, horrible dreams woke me
up in a cold sweat if 1 got a shoit doze, and
the hallucination would lemain with me
after 1 was faiily awake, for 1 would jump
out of bed with terroi and huiry from the
room. Only when the daylight was just
shining in the morning was 1 able to close
*r?.v eyes for a shoit.time. As I lay restless
in bed, turning uneasily fiom side to side, I
tried all the ways I could think of to induce
Bleep. I woula count figures over and over
again, or repeat lines of poetry in endless
repetition ; but it was no use, for the ■ nd of
every effort was that my mind switched
back to the constantly melancholy thoughts
that possessed me. And the least thing
would excite this morbid brooding; if I read
something horrible in the newspaper, some
murder or the like, I had a sort of irresist-
ible feeling that I was about to be involved
in a like catastrophe. This dread would so
master me that I dared not stay in the
house, but had to go to my mother’s for her
company and assurance. The least thing
startled me, I would leap right out of my
chair at a sudden noise, even though I
expected it. My husband, knowing this,
would walk very quietly into the room and
touch me with his hand gently; yet this
would make me tremble all over with a kind
)f shiver. After these nervous shocks my
leart would flutter and vibrate, and if I
were in bed I could hear it go thump
thump as it seemed to move the covering.
1 remember that once the doctor gave me a
deeping draught; he said it was of vital
importance that I should have rest, and I
was so delighted thinking of the oblivion
that was going to come for a short time to
my misery, that I got excited with expecta-
tion, and the medicine had no effect. It
was quite a common thing for me to cry and
sob all night long. I simply could not eat
at, all, X had no appetite, I became very
thin, losing my natural plumpness of body,
my skin got very yellow in color and was
blotched with brown patches. In the
morning the nasty taste in my mouth made
1 sick, and there was white fur over
in' io .gu •. There was a sharp paiu in the
back of my neck and a singing in my ears,
a sorb of buzzing that hardly ever left me.
Wind on the stomach was another source of
annoyance. There were muscular pains in
my arms, and at times in the palms of my
hands and soles of my feet a tingling,
pricking sensation, as though they were
going to sleep. My eyes were I
am sure they sank back in my head quite
an inch, and the sight became blurred and
misty with little stars dancing before me.
Sometimes a feeling like a veil falling would
come down over my head and face and creep
to my shoulders, a kind of dead ache, as
though all that part of my body was losing
life—an indescribably horrible feeling, I
am naturally of a lively disposition and
cheerful in thought } but now I was utterly
tired of my life. If it had not been for
thoughts of my family 1 would have
welcomed death. And my imagination was
so worked up that I had only to hear
accounts of other people’s maladies to fancy
I was suffering from like complaints in
addition to my own special ailment. My
temper became very irritable ; sometimes I
fancy I hardly knew what I was saying ; it
is certaih I did ttot hrean all I said. And I
was as easily upset abd turned to tears as a
little child, my herves and impulses being
quite beyond my own control. But while I
tell you of all these smaller things, do not
forget that my great and master trouble all
the time was the fearful pain in the head I
have told you of, that seemed in some way
to be the cause of all my other sorrows.
My last doctor did nob speak very hopefully
of my case, he said it would take twelve
months’ treatment to cure me. And after
my long experience of doctors’ treatment
you may be sure this prospect did not
encourage me. I tried the patent medicines
that are much advertised, but in my case
they failed to do as promised. Then I
chanced to read in the newspaper the re-
port of a cure by Clements Tonic, and I
fancied from what I read that this remedy
might suit my case. I purchased a bottle
of Clements Tonic, and it did me so much
good I bought another; and it was after
this second bottle that the dreadful pain in
my head went right away, and that I began
to care for my meals and get sleep at night.
Then all the troubles I have told you of
melted away one after the other, like ice
melts under the sun on a warm day, so did
all my distressing symptoms dissolve in the
healing effects of Clements Tonic. I can
not over praise Clements Tonic for what it
has done for me ; there is no doubt it was
the one thing that had been wanted during
all my sickness, and the finding of it at last
saved my reason if not my life. I know
another case in my own family where
Clements Tonic wrought another cure as
surprising as my own, so that I have double
proof that my faith in Clements Tonic and
its wonderful powers is well founded.”
“ I should like to be allowed to report
your case, Mrs. Hill,” said the reporter
interrogatively, for it will make yet another,
and not the least important, of the mighty
volume of testimonials gathered by Clements
Tonic.”
“ I am sure you are quite welcome. * Out
of a full heart the tongue speaketh.’ If I
have said much it is because I feel much,
and I shall only be too glad if what I have
said reaches and convinces some person who
suffered as I suffered. So publish it as much
as you think advisable.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Elizabeth Hill, of 24 Chatham-st., Prahran;
Melbourne, in the Colony of Victoria, do solemnly
and sincerely declare thatT have carefully read the
annexed document, consistii\ of six folios, and con»
secutively numbered from one to six, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains
my full permission to publish in any manner my
statements—which I give voluntarily, and without
receiving any payment; and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be
true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the
Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a
False Declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt
perjury.
Lcelaied at Prahran, in the Colony of Victoria, this
31st day of January, one thousand nine hundred
before me,
HENRY OSMENT, J P.,
A Justice of the Peace in and for the Central Baili-
wick of the Colony of Victoria.
FRINGES,
(tfatural Curly, from 3/0 «a/da
PLAITS and TAILS,
Win. lona, 6/8. all real haia.
CUTTINGS & COMBmOg.
•orlied up, 2/0 per 02.
We are the cheapestin
iralia for all Hair Work.
Send Color of Hair.
W. H. Wigztfl,
IIOWILUAU SniBET.
corner of Palmer-street.
„ SYDNEY.
_Jfiw»We Tram xviU stop at Door.
_ Se ' ld stamps for full Prioo list.'.
st v* t* Omtiy OniiW.
D.S .MAI R
WATCH REPAIRING SPECIALIST
Watches Thoroughly Cleaned,
2/6
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS.
TDEST Workmanship. No Overcharges. Should you
wish to have your watch Carefully and Thoroughly
Repaired, you can save TIME and MONEY by forwarding
jf per registered post to D. S. Mair, 684 George-st, Sydney.
ONE TRIAL SOLICITED. Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Note Address: 684 George Street, Sydney.
This is the Latest Type I
GRAMOPHONE
or
ZONOPHOME!
Price, £7.
w
TALKS! SINGS-
PLAYS ALL
Instrumental Music!
In fact, it is a CONCERT in your own Home.
Nothing to get out of order.
Very Simple. Clockwork Action
Records, 2s 6d ; Needles, Is 6d.
Send for New Illustrated List —FREE.
tgr Also on Sale —Phonographs and Graphophoneei ;
2 Corbett Fight Machines, £so—a fortune for a smart
man ; 2 Edison Kintoscopes, £lO each— Bargain,
THE TALKING MACHINE DEPOT:
(Headquarters in Australia)
Edison Electric Company,
1 & 3 Rowe Street (120 Pitt-street), Sydney (Only),
nearly opposite G.P.O.
[Carriage Paid.] W. J. N. Oldkrshaw, Manager.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL, £900,000.
Our ALES and STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
*X*Q DJE-iJi'Y COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Sent Brewery, SYDNEY.
YORKSHIRE
The Most Delicious I I 1 1
Sauce in the World. E E Jjjj ' M
Millions of Mottles Sold Annually In England.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTIONS.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD POWDER.
For making delicious Custards without eggs in
Less Time and at Half the price.
DELICIOUS to Plum Pudding.
DELICIOUS to Stewed Rice.
DELIC OUS to all kinds of Puddings.
DELICIOUS to everything.
DELICIOUS to Jam Tarts.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit.
DELICIOUS to all kinds of Fruit Pies.
DELICIOUS alone.
GOODALL’S
DESICCATED JELLY,
Delicate, Delicious, Dainty.
Makes a pure and wholesome Jelly in a few
minutes, without straining or boiling. The
packets are complete in themselves iu the
following flavours':—Lemon, Orange,Vanilla,
Raspberry, strawberry, Almond, and Plain.
Proprietors:— GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & Co., LEEDS, England.
Sole Travelling Representative:JOSEPH EVERETT Bagot Rd.Suliacu. Perth. W.A. & 6B,King St.,Melbourne
Business Announcements
A Good..
Understanding
Should always prevail where
boots and shoes are concerned.
There’s a shoe on sale in
Australia which deserves care-
ful attention because of its
intrinsic merits. That shoe is
Tie “ HERZ ” Sloe.
It is the Shoe to buy beca«se: —
The leather is of the finest
quality.
The shape is elegant, and
is never lost.
For such high-class goods
the price is just right.
It is easy and comfortable
always.
Ask for <HEEtZ’ Shoes.
HUNTER’S SELL THEM.
USE
SPOONER’S
SPOONERS
CKC %
V
*
*
iIATBNT LEATHER BOOTS
GLAZED AIDS M
~;o,o**tt'***f* P*-* *«« •'.."
',3£i
ROYAL NAVY
DRESSING,
UNIVERSAL CREAM,
Black Cream
For Cleaning' and Polishing
Boots and Shoes.
(In bottles) 6d. and Is.
BLACK OIL
The Best Dressing for
HARNESS LEATHER (in
bottle), Is.
Also, Manufacturers of
Lnrivalled EMBROCATION,
Liquid Blacking,
SADDLE SOAP,
Plate Powders,
Harness Dressings,
Etc. , Etc.
Sold by all Storekeepers,
Boot Shops, Saddlers, etc.
Alediaal-
mm
■will*
Take
t*
~l 5s
M
fAA ;~V-
in s«
or
OF ALL (Ji E/M IS I S
throughout GREAT B RIL3 IN & the COLON I£3
Linum Catharticum Pills Purcf/%rnbic
<s COACULINE •
Transparent Cement, for all Broken Articles
GOUT
PILLS.
F°R GOUT,
RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO
These invaluable Pills are recommended
to the afflicted with confidence, as one
of the results of the improved state of
medical science, and the only efficient
remedy ever discovered for GOUT and
RHEUMATISM, in that they not only
cure these disorders, but prevent their
development and recurrence.
Sole Proprietors, Pjrout & Co., 229,
Strand, London, England. Sold by all
chemists and stores throughout the
Australian Colonies.


Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
THE FAMOUS REME3DY FOR.
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Coughs!
CONSUMPTION.
TOO ILL TO LEAVE HIS BED.
A COMPLETE CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you
about, the wonderful cure your medicine has effected in
my case. About ttiree years ago I began to cough. At
first the cough was not, severe, but it gradually got worse,
and I became very weak and troubled with night sweats,
pain in my chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On
several occasions there was blood in the expectorated
matter. I had been treated by a doctor, who pronounced
my case to be Consumption, and various other treatments
had been tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage
that I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for
a course of the medicine. When it arrived I was too ill to
leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at, once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two lots
of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure, for
which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
Severe Cough.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED
BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir.—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest,
with cough, for five years, and during that time got
treatment from different sources, but derived no benefit
until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief
at once, and completely cured me. lam delighted with
it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once,
and “can’t be licked.” —Yours sincerely,
Modewarre, Victoria. W. TREMELLEN.
A Child Seven Months Old.
A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis. Cure as soon as possible,
asl cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is 3 years old, and
has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medi-
cine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.
I remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE.
Violet Town, Victoria.
Three Cases Completely Cured by One
Bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
SEVERE COLD, WITH LOSS OF VOICE, CURED BT
HALF A BOTTLE.
A SUPPLY SENT TO A RELATIVE IN ENGLAND.
“ Llenwellyn,
“ Katunga, Vic.
“Mr. Hearne.—
“Dear Sir,—l am very much pleased with the effects
of your Bronchitis Cure. Last winter three of my chil-
dren had very bad coughs, and one bottle cured the
three of them. The housemaid also had such a severe
cold that she entirely lost her voice, but half a bottle
cured her. I always keep it in the house now, and re-
commend it to anyone requiring a medicine of that kind.
“I now want you to send at once four bottles to Eng-
land to inv mother, who is suffering greatly from bron-
chitis. The address is enclosed.
“ Yours gratefully,
“JOHN S. MORTIMER.’’
The Relative in England, who is 80 years old, also
cured by Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
WAS A GREAT SUFFERER.
HAD NOT WALKED FOR 12 MONTHS.
ALWAYS WALKS NOW, AND IS QUITE WELL.
FEELS STRONGER THAN SHE HAS DONE
FOR YEARS.
“ 8 Watson-street, Burton-on-Trent,
“ Staffordshire, England.
“Mr. W. G. Hearne, Geelong.—
“ Dear Sir, —
Your letter and Bronchitis Cure to hand quite safe.
I am sure you will be glad to know that your Bronchitis
Cure has quite cured me. I was very glad when it came,
as I was suffering from a severe attack of Bronchitis at the
time it arrived. I had sent for my own doctor, but had
not had one night’s rest for a week. I started taking the
Bronchitis Cure three times a day as directed, and was
very much eased at once. At the end of a week I only
took it twice a day, and then only every night for a
week, as I was so much better when, thanks to the Lord
for adding His blessing, I was quite well, and walked into
town and back without feeling any fatigue. I had not
done that previously for 12 months—always went in the
omnibus—as walking caused me such pain and distress in
the chest. I always walk now, and never feel it, and I
am stronger than I have been for years. I thank my son
for his great kindness in sending the medicine, and ana,
dear Sir,
“ Yours very truly,
“M.' MORTIMER.
Extract from a letter, since written by the same lady to
her son, Mr. John S. Mortimer, Llenwellyn, Katunga,
Victoria.
HER DAUGHTER HAD BEEN VERY ILL.
SPITTING UP BLOOD.
THE DOCTOR SAID NOTHING MORE COULD BE
DONE.
CURED BY HEARNE S BRONCHITIS CURE.
The extract runs as follows :—“ As for myself, thank
the Lord, lam feeling stronger than I have for years. I
had an attack of Bronchitis in November, but Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure was again successful. I feel quite well,
and walk into town feeling quite strong.
“ I must ask you to send me six bottles more of the
medicine, as I wish to have a supply in the house. I
have tried to get it made up here, and let my chemist
have a bottle to see what he could do. He tells me this
week he can make nothing out of it, he never saw any-
thing like it before, so there is only one thing for me to
do—send for more. I have never kept in bed one day
since I commenced to take it. I used to be in bed a fort-
night at a time always, and after that for months I was
as weak as I could possibly be, and was always taking
cod liver oil, so you will see at once it is quite worth
while sending for it such a long distance.
“ Something more I must tell you. Charlotte has been
very ill since I wrote you. Her cough was so bad she
never had a night’s rest, and was spitting up blood
very much. The doctor told her husband that there was
nothing more he could do for her. So on the Sunday I
sent her half a bottle of the Bronchitis Cure, and told
her to try it, and if she did not use it, not to waste it,
but send it back again. She had such confidence in her
doctor that I thought she would not try it. On the
Wednesday I sent over again, and she was much better,
the night’s rest was very good, and cough and bleeding
from the lungs better. She sent for another half-bottle, |
arid on the following Sunday sent over to say that she
was quite cured and did not require any more medicine, j
So you see what great good it has done, and she wishes
to have some of my next supply.”
12 Tears’ Agony.
DISTRESSING, SUFFOCATING, DRY COUGH
ENTIRELY REMOVED BY FIVE DOSES.
NO OTHER TREATMENT COULD EVEN EASE IY.
“ Sir.—My wife was for twelve years a sufferer from
a most distressing, suffocating, dry cough that could not
be removed or even eased by any remedy, doctors’
prescriptions and patent medicines having been tried ;
but I am happy to say that the cough, pain in the chest,
and difficulty of breathing, etc., were entirely removed by
the fifth dose of your Bronchitis Cure. —I remain, Sir,
yours most respectfully,
“WILLIAM CROCKETT,
"Baker’s Swamp P. 0., via Dripstone, New South
Wales.”
A rive Years’ Case.
CURED BY ONE SMALL BOTTLE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.—Dear Sir, —Kindly send me one
large bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. lam more than
pleased with the results of your wonderful medicine, as a
small bottle cured my little girl, who had been suffering
for five years, and now I do not feel safe to be without it.
I remain, yours respectfully,
AGNES F. KENNEDY,
Bethanga, Victoria.
A Seven Years’ Case.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
" Mr. W. G. Hearne.
“ Dear Sir,—Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I suffered for upwards of seven
years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from
coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing was so
distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up.
I write you this acknowledgment from a sense of duty, as
in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year
previous I bad been getting very much worse, and at the
time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed
suffering from a most violent cough, expectorating blood
and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery.
The first dose of. the medicine gave me welcome relief,
and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment,
until I became, as I am now, quite well.—Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.”
Asthma.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
A SEVENTEEN YEARS’ CASE.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charieville,
Queensland, writes “After suffering from Asthma for
17 years, and having been under a great many different
treatments without benefit, I was induced tojtry Hearne’s
medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this
medicine I quite got rid of the Asthma, and since then,
which was in the beginning of 1883— 15. years ago—l have
not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing again on the 4th April, 1899, he states:—“l
am keeping very well now. Never have the slightest
return of the Asthma.”
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
PREPARED ONLY AND SOLIV WHOLESALE ~AND RETAIL BY THE PROPRIETOR,
AY. Gr. 11H1A RXE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
Small Size, 2s 6d; Large, 4s 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors. Forwarded by Post to any Address when not obtainable Locally.
“DOWKIDGE’S
AS USUAL.
Elizabeth-st., Hobart,
TASMANIA.
And GEORGE STREET. BRISBANE.
Minerva Tonic
PHORPHORISED IRON SYRUP.
Minerva Tonic
is the Cure for POOR APPETITE, BROKEN
REST, DEBILITY, DESPONDENCY, &c.
Minerva Tonic
is recommended by Dr. Stephenson Macadam,
Consulting Chemist to the British Government.
Minerva Tonic
is also approved by the British Lancet,
highest authority in the world.
the !
Minerva Tonic
is ON SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS throughout
Australia.
Ire you Too Stout?
AN ABSOLUTELY
Safe, Speedy, and Permanent Reduction
in Flesh.
With improvement in Health, Skin, and Breathing.
Guaranteed to either sex, without any restriction or
change of diet.
Abdominal Obesity a Specialty!
Write or call for our interesting Treatise on Obesitv, with
colonial references and testimonials, sent free (sealed) on
receipt of two stamps. THE MALINC REMEDY CO., 38
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Smelting- Co. of Australia
(LIMITED),
OA.P'i’O (Lalte Illawarra), near SYDDCTETSf.
SMELTERS.
REFINERS
P'ROXJXJCERS
OF
FIINE SILVER.
V'/: T
MAKERS OF
“S. Co of A. SOFT
LEAD”
AND
“ ILL AW AREA”
..BRAND OF..
SOFT LEAD.
Purchasers of all classes of GOLD, SILVER, LEAD and COPPER, ORES, CYANIDE SLAGS, JEWELLERS’ SWEEP
HIGHEST PRICES PAID FOR ORES. PROMPT CASH SETTLEMENT ON AGREEMENT of ASSAYS.
For all information regarding Rates, etc., apply to E. A. Weinberg, Manager, The Smelting Company of Australia, Ltd.
REFINERS ’of SILVER LEAD BULLION
PAPTO, N.S.W.; or Martin Place, SYDNEY.
“ Retained when all other
Food? are rejected,—
It is invaluable.”
London Medical Record.
Food r®
Infants
i
I
BENGER’S FOOD is not only highly
but is most easily digested, and is so delicious that it is
enjoyed by the youngest Infant, or the most delicate Invalid.
BENGER’S FOOD is sold in Tins by Chemists, Sc., everywhere.
‘“Benger’s Food’ has, by
its excellence, established a
reputation of its own.”
British Medical Journal.
Invalids
and
the aced.


Are You Aware That
of all Medicines, BILE BEANS FOR BILIOUSNESS holds first place as the Specific
for Liver and Kidney Ailments and Derangements of the System arising from Impaired
Digestion, Assimilation, and Bile Flow ? They act in exactly the some way as nature s
animal bile, and while correcting and strengthening weak and impaired organs, yet do so
in a perfectly natural way. So widely is their value now known that thousands of people
bless them daily, and
150,000 Bile Beans
are consumed every night. They cure many ills when all else fails. Such is the state-
ment made not only by the proprietors but by the vast army of those who have been
strengthened by them. In every town and city and in most of the important villages
throughout Australia and England, they have effected cures when all else has failed.
Women and young children who have been benefited are numerous. Indeed they
Are Consumed
by weary worn-out women whose life has lost its charm. In such cases of Debility and
Depression they are Invaluable. Remember they are purely vegetable, and the younges
child or the aged woman may take them without fear. All Chemists stock them, or you
can obtain them from the BILE BEAN MANUFACTURING CO., 39 PIFT
STREET, SYDNEY, upon receipt of Is. l|d. For Headache, Female Ailments,
Constipation, Indigestion, Liver and Kidney Troubles, Spring Blood Troubles, Piles,
or Rheumatism, they are the Most Effective Remedy Known. Over 150,000 Bile Beans
are taken
Every Night.
Several times this season a problem has attacked
me. Is dancing going to last ? Various things
make me think that the beginning of the end is
coming, that the queer custom of twirling round
and round eighteen times in succession with a
man’s arm about your waist, eating a lot of cream
for supper, and going home with sore ankles, a
head-ache, and some ragged frills, and wondering
why you did it, is going to wane away into dis-
use. Yes, I have actually sighted the day when a
dance will be as a croquet-party a something
they used to do, the poor, dear, dead people who
didn’t know anything better.
To support my theory : There was a dance lately *
heaps of pretty girls, a fizzy supper, the best of
music, the best of floors. Yet lam told that
every second man said, as he went to the cloak-
room for his crush-hat afterwards, Tins is the
last dance I shall ever go to.” There was nothing
wanting to make that dance what a dance should
be, and yet there they were, grumbling and
groanins".
Here is a dance story. It was at a private hop.
The host, a genial legal gentleman, saw a forlorn
young man standing alone. He was just like
every other host, not knowing half his guests, but
thought he ought to help things on. “If you
come with me,” said he, “ I’ll find you a partner.
Awfully pretty girl. Awfully nice. Heaps of
money. Got an awful brother,” he added, chat-
tily. They stopped in front of a pretty girl.
“ Allow me to introduce” “ Why, she s my
sister ! ” That host is going to be like other hosts
in future, and not try and make things hum at his
own parties.
Some Sydneyites will be interested in these de-
tails of carriage arrangements for the Queen s
afternoon-party on July 11th : “ Only those hav-
ing the privilege of the entree and holding white
carriage cards can enter by that door. I hose
holding green carriage cards will set down at the
main entrance. . . . Holders of green, blue, and
pink carriage tickets may set down at any gate
except the entree in Buckingham Palace Road,
but in all cases every lady or gentleman must pro-
duce and give up the white ticket marked Per-
sonal Admission.” How delightfully Beau-
champy !
Another story of a certain amorous septua-
genarian, who married a comparative juvenile
some months ago. The enterprising ancient
indulges his passion for letter-writing by sending
to his daughters (in Australia) full accounts of
his honeymoon travels, spiced with rapturous
reference to his darling bride. Every day adds
something to his store of new-found bliss, it
appears; but there was one particular day at
Rome which will ever live in his memory.
Delightful weather, delightful outing, glorious
little luncheon and dinner and such a smile on the
face of the Dear One as filially convinced the old
gentleman of her semi-celestial preciousness.
Some marriages are, indeed, made in Heaven,
and theirs is one of the most beautiful that Provi-
dence has been good enough to ordain. Well,
page after page of letter was devoted to the doings
of this halcyon day at Rome. Words couldnt
express the utter joyfulness of it all,, but he had
tried his best to paint a gem of a word-picture m
his diary under date so-and-so. And the daughters,
who are not too happy to remember important
family events, noted that the day when dear Papa
beat his record in the matter of joy was the first
anniversary of their mother’s death.
Society amuses itself merrily over on dits about
a lady who came in for cash lately, but the cash
wasn’t polished. By way of a good beginning she
gave the gardener his conge. He demurred.
“What,” said she, “you think because I am
H’ignorant that I don’t know what your work
ought to be ! Now, I’ve had my H’eye on you
this long time ; Fve been watchin’ you neglectin’
my observatories and things.” (There’s such a
difference, too, if she’d thought it over; dll the
difference.)
A neat storyette reaches me from a northern
suburb not six miles from the G.P.O. A resident
remarked to the mounted postman, who was
always burdened with one or more brown-paper
parcels, that the parcels-post delivery seemed to
be very heavy in the neighborhood. “It s nothing
to do with the post,” responded the man ; “its
washing that the different washerwomen kid me
into carrying home. I’m going to strike —that I
am.”
A professional (known here) who had made a
most congenial but not financially brilliant mar-
riage had to undergo a temporary separation from
her husband some little while ago. To her came
one day a rich and influential friend, warm-
hearted and well-meaning, but with a yearning to
poke her finger into the domestic pie. “ Now, do
tell me,” she began confidentially, “ why is your
husband so badly off—what is the cause of it all ?
In short, who is the woman?” The foreigner
drew herself up and smote herself tragically on
the breast. “ Madame,” she exclaimJ, “lam ze
woman ! ”
At a smart wedding near Sydney not very long
ago, the parson, after asking some preliminary
questions, said to the blushing bridegroom: “ Well,
that’s all right; you are sure you answered cor-
rectly ? ” “ Well, all but one thing,” was the
reply ; ‘ ‘ you asked me was I of age, and I said
‘Yes,’ but I’m not—l’m twen‘//-sixJ ” r And then
the organist joyously thumped out “The voice
that breathed o’er Eden.”
T’other day I went with some girls to a
charitable institution in this city. As we could
neither sing nor play to the inmates, we took with
us some cakes and tarts, which were much ap-
preciated and eagerly devoured. Suddenly, one
girl, a harmless imbecile, began to cry piteously,
and hunt about as if in search of something.
“ What is the matter ? ” “I’ve lost the jamout
of my tart,” she sobbed. “ How did you lose it.
inquired one of the visitors. “ I ate it! ” was the
heartbroken reply.
Writes my Melbourne correspondent: —
“When Gov. Hopetoun arrived in Victoria, he
sent home newspaper accounts of his official wel-
come, etc. Lady Dorothea Hope and her sister
apparently winked the other eye while reading
these chronicles, and first time they met anyone
likely to know, they asked, ‘ Do they really make
such a fuss over my brother in Melbourne? Its
just as if he were a king. He sent us papers, but
we thought he was. fooling us D In Melbourne,
under vice-regal wing, these ladies were coerced
into pomp and ceremony, and looked very well in
evening-dress, thanks to smooth skin and shapely
shoulders. On their own, they’re poorly and badly
dressed. Their dressing-gowns, short in front and
long behind, once upon a ti le aroused the pity of
fellow-travellers, who were also surprised to notice
that the wandering aristocrats had apparently
never learnt dancing, though they good-naturedly
did their best at boardship hops and candidly con-
fessed their ignorance to partners. The latter, by
the way, still remember the feel of the Hope
hands, rough as nutmeg-graters, through pottering
about farms. Two more natural, bright, un-
affected women never breathed,
“Returned Major Holmes (N.S.W.) tells a
funny story illustrative of the innocence of con-
vent ladies. Big Capt. MTnerney, now in Pre-
toria, has a sister in a Melb. convent. When he
reached Melbourne the Major, as a friendly thing,
called to tell the lady news of her brother. Many
nuns gathered round to hear the warrior s yarns.
He related that the captain was hardly recognis-
able now, as he had a big beard. ‘ A beard ? said
a nun with surprise, ‘ Why, how did he get it .
Holmes says he was just a bit flabbergasted at
first, and took pains to explain that it grew.
“ A perfect lady went to Melb. Public Library
to look for her ‘family crest.’ The attendant
found it for her in a gorgeous work, worth a small
fortune. Then she took out a nice, dainty pair of
pocket-scissors and said with a sweet smile, 1
suppose there will be no objection to my cutting
out this page, will there ? ’
“The English new-chum johnnie may always
be distinguished from the American new-cnum
dandy The Pall-Mailer wears his trousers turned
up at the feet; the Broadwayer wears his
overcoat sleeves turned up about 2in. A curious
fashion, but writer has observed it m Melbourne
in a good many cases lately. The ‘grand young
man ’ who set the fashion of turning up trousers
in London was Hon. Bobby Spencer. Who was
the American youth that made a bid for immor-
tality by setting the Yankee sleeve fashion, one
would like to know. By the way, American
Consul Bray estimates that there are fewer than
50 Americans resident in Melbourne now ! It
seems incredible, but he should know. Sydney,
somehow, absorbs the Yanks. Probably they
can’t live out of the sound of Colonel Bell s elo-
qU“ The skating Rink is virtually the only place
in Melbourne where the Social cream agrees to
junket on equal terms with the skimmed milk.
One may see, here and there, a pier-promenader
(Sunday afternooner) in all her flossy splendor
going the pace, side by side with the languishing
Lydias of Toorak. They all mingle in the passage
getting the rollers on or off, and strange to say,
never a nose is tilted at ‘ the strange company it
finds itself in.’
“One of the male champions who appears on
special nights at South Yarra Pink is a really
interesting spectacle. Yelvet coat Reynolds-like
—a gaudy blue tie, and a pomatumed pate. At the
recent Carnival, he executed the tricks of the
evening, and did some wonderful pirouettes, in
company with the dolly wife of a leading cyclist.
The pair waltzed round on their rollers like auto-
matic figures, without fuss, flutter or fatigue.
“They tell this story of a well-known Aus-
tralian My Lady whose manners are more for-
cible than polite. She had assumed the leader-
ship of a society charitable effort, and at a
committee meeting parcelled out various duties to
various members. On Mrs. Blank receiving her
share she protested, saying in a subdued voice,
‘ Oh, my Lady, I couldn’t, really. I was just
going to say 1 must resign from the committee.
We are going into mourning, you know.’ ‘ Lor !,
gasped the President, ‘I never heard.’ ‘Didnt
you see in the cablegrams this morning ? Poor
gir . So closely connected as we are !
‘ Gam ! ’ said her ladyship, • e s no relation of
yours. ’Aven’t I known all about you for years
when your father kept a grocery in Blank-street ?
Sir __ , indeed ! You don’t get out of this
for him!’ Mrs. Blank didn’t.
“Fickle man! An immensely rich Australian
and S’American speculator who bought one ol the
‘stately homes of England’ and spends quite
£lOOO per week in living up to it, lost the wire oi
his youth a while back. Old friends who wrote
’Ome to the disconsolate widower for the clear
Departed’s last portrait promptly got what they
wanted, and per following mail returned thanks
along with a request for the donor s own picture o
prevent that of his loved lost one from ‘looking
lonely ‘in its Australian exile. The millionaire s
ready response took the form this time ot two
portraits, one of himself, the other of a fair young
thing labelled ‘My present wife.’ Despite this
double-barrelled precaution against solitude, the
first Mrs. Moneybags’ pictured presentment stilt
wears a lonely air in local drawing-rooms, tor
though two are company three are none —a tact
forgotten by the Original’s former cronies,
when they assigned to Moneybags himself the
central niche in a trefoil photo-frame, and nan keel
him on either side by a wife, old and new respect-
ively.
“A Queensland patriarch bought a little place
in the country when his motherless only
child left school. In this retreat, he boasted,
there was nothing to unsettle a young person s
mind, unless she took to ‘envying the powers
their colors and the birds their plumage. lhe
old egotist, by-the-way, never felt dull himself—
thanks to the congenial company. The only out-
sider allowed about the place was the ‘cow boy,
but he upset the apple-cart just as effectually as
if he’d been a prince, and is now his former em-
ployer’s son-in-law.
“An irate father has cleared out of Melbourne
because his daughter is about to marry a Protes-
tant (bad cess to him). The old man is an explo-
sive combustible of the R.C. faith, with a great
fear in his heart of hell-tire, and regards his ewe-
lamb’s mating with a sheep of another fold as a
step to eternal brimstone. But she’s going to
chanceit.
‘ ‘Affable Earl Hopetoun is not singular in his fancy
for ‘ meeting men at their honest toil,’ as shown
by the admiring crowds who gather at the Central
Fire Station on display-afternoons when the
flame-fighters rehearse their deeds of derring-do.
The knights of hose and hydrant are fine fellows
to look at, and their barracks are so radiantly
clean that the visitor quite tires of her own reflec-
tion in buttons, helmets, engines and the glossy
coats of the horses.
“ This all-over spruceness would be less com-
mendable if those responsible took time to prink
nests and preen plumage. But a fire-alarm by
day means a start for the blaze within 17sec.,
while 25sec. are permissible at night. Unlike
that nursery-rhyme sloven, ‘my son John went to
bed with his breeches on,’ a competent fireman
makes Blanket Bay in seemly night-attire like
other less-hurried Christians. Over-night he sets
boots and clothes, all in one piece, at his bedside,
and if required dives into them feet-first in one
act, so to speak. Married firemen, who live on
the first floor, are provided by the management
with a short cut to duty in the shape of a slippery
pole to slide down. Remembering the feverish
impatience of ordinary, slow-going Man kept
waiting, it must be a brave woman who weds one
of these lightning-change artists.
Y ours affectionately,
GOULI-GOULI.
Not a Lily Langtry.
If there is one thing more than another that
Lily Langtry is noticed for it is her complexion.
Unfortunately we see in the streets every day
young ladies who are not Lily Langtrys, who, in
other words, have pimples on the face, and an
unhealthy, pasty look. The dark look under the
eyes which accompanies this paleness is a sure
sign of an unhealthy body with anaemic conditions
in the system. The healthy girl has a fresh, rosy
complexion which is admired. Let us inquire
into the reason of these very opposite conditions.
Healthy blood is absolutely essential to a good
complexion. Many girls with almost perfect
features are annoyed at finding they are neither
pretty nor attractive. They think their trouble
is their face, when it is really their liver. To have
good blood their liver must be in good working
order, the stomach able to perform its part of the
contract, and the person must be free from all
digestive troubles. Bile Beans are compounded ex-
pressly to bring about these conditions, and girls
with a pasty, white skin cannot do better than try
them. Once the organs of the body are in
good order, and the functions of the body carried
out regularly, the skin will assume a beautiful
color without the aid of cosmetics. Bile Beans
will have made the blood pure and the result will
be shown on the surface. Their action is gentle,
there is no griping, purging, and no evil after-
effects. Their formula is purely vegetable, and
such drastic ingredients as aloes, calomel, and
mercury, found in most purgatives, are emphatic-
ally and positively not employed even in the
smallest degree. Occasion may come when you
wish a medicine to thoroughly search out and get
to the root of a digestive ailment. If it does,
remember Bile Beans are the people’s popular
priced preparation, and they cure when other
remedies fail. Those who are troubled with pim-
ples should try a course of Bile Beans, and the
young lady taking them may be assured that her
complexion will at least be improved, if not as
fascinating as Lily Langtry’s.
A Theatre Party.
They took a dox at the Theatre Royal to see
the performance of “ Trilby.” The party was
composed of four young men and four young
ladies. They all enjoyed the performance with
the exception of one pale-faced, sickly young lady,
who was suffering from a severe sick headache.
That sick headache was caused from biliousness,
constipation, or some derangement of the digestive
organs. Bile Beans for Biliousness is an excellent
remedy for such a complaint. They put the diges-
tive organs in good working order, and enable
them to carry off the waste matter of the body.
Indigestion is the result of a disordered liver, and
no specific has yet been manufactured which will
act more conclusively and directly upon the liver
as Bile Beans for Biliousness. They are beyond
doubt essentially a medicine for the regulating of
the whole of the digestive. organs. Bile Beans
keep the body free from detrimental outside influ-
ences, and consequently lessens the danger
peculiar to a girl just verging into womanhood.
The Old Arm-chair.
After the worries of business there is nothing
more refreshing than to come home and be wel-
comed by the embrace of your wife, or if you are
not married by the whole-souled greeting of your
mother or some one near and dear to you. It is
then when the cares of the day sink into oblivion.
You put on your slippers and sit in the old arm-
chair. It is strange what a fascination that old
arm-chair has for you. The older it is the better
your like it. It recalls recollections of the past.
Your father sat in that chair, and perhaps your
father’s father. There is nothing infatuating in
the old arm-chair. Dean Swift was right when he
designated it “ a human piece of furniture.” But
even the old and faithful arm-chair is useless
unless you have health. Rather sit in front of
your fire on a lump of stone being in perfect
health. If you want to be well do as thousands of
others have done, take Bile Beans for Biliousness.
This marvellous medicine is not a cure-all, but in
cases of Biliousness, Indigestion, and all com-
plaints emanating from the liver Bile Beans for
Biliousness are invaluable.
Mr. T. Reece, of 28 Clayton-street, Ballarat,
says For the past 15 years or more I have been
a martyr to headaches, sickness, and biliousness
in all forms. 1 had consulted nearly all the
doctors in Ballarat, but they certainly did not
seem to understand my case, they were baffled
because I never smoke or drink or keep late hours.
In short none of them did me any good at all and
one medical man went so far as to say that I would
have to put up with the trouble and that there
was no cure for me. At last I was recommendedi
to try Bile Beans, and about two months ago I
purchased a box. I have much pleasure to say
that since that time, after taking this medicine, I
have enjoyed perfect health and have no objection
in the interest of humanity for you to publish this.
+
Bile Beans are an undoubted specific for Bilious-
ness, Headache, Indigestion, Debility, Female
Ailments, Liver Troubles, Costiveness/Piles, that
Tired Feeling, &c. Obtainable at all chemists
and storekeepers (price 13£d. per box), or direct
from the Australian Depot" 39 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney.


NEW MANHOOD!
Electricity Poured into Your
Body While You Sleep !
Dr. CLARKSON’S ELECTRIC BELT
'ILL fill your nerves with Electricity
every night while you sleep,
and take
Dr. CLARKSON’S
RE-INVI6ORATOR
during the day, and in ten days you will
feel the dawn of new life in every organ
of your body. All the nerves will he
charged with renewed energy, and your
heart will beat stronger with the gladness
of youthful vigor. To men who are
ervous, failing in Vitality, Sleepless,
Despondent, Losing Memory, Wasting
the Vigor of Manhood, Dyspeptic, Weak
in Stomach and Kidneys; who notice a
general collapse of all Vital parts ; to
such men Electricity and the Re-In-
vigor ator as I apply, it will bring happi-
ness and health. Its effect on Weak
Nerves and Organs is truly wonderful.
Its touch is Magnetic.
Ipr
Ns
m
o
88!
JSs'
V-wL
Wa
A
I
%
iv&
m a
•m'/
m
%-M$
am
m
mm
'VVS-^-.i
~3%T
TT FILLS the blood with the fire of
1 youth, and gives new vim and
confidence. While it is on the body,
the nerves teem with vitalising warmth,
and within a few weeks the full vigor
of manhood is restored.
My ELECTRIC
BODY BELT
• •
has been brought to the highest state
of perfection by twenty years’ study
and experiment. It is unlike any of
the old-style belts, and is warranted to
be stronger than any other body appli-
ance made. It is guaranteed for one
year without any expense for renewals
or repairs.
PRICE : ELECTRIC BELT, 10/-.
Re-lnvigorator, 7/6 Bottle; 3 Bottles£l
*gs Dr. CLARKSON’S RE-INVIGORATOR
If you are Sick or Weak, try my New Method at once. It will save you years of misery and many Doctor’s bills. Call if you Can. If not, let
me send you my Pamphlet full of Truth for Men who Want to be Strong.
Call or
Apply •
OTTT
RATE
IDIR-TTOr STORE,
Cut-Rate Price List Post Free on Application,
Corner ELIZABETH & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
*
The Artist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a small old man, slight of build, and
meek of manner. His face was clean-shaven, save
for a tuft of fluffy grey hair on each side just
below the ears ; his mouth retreated deeply, and
his chin shot out to a remarkable point. Over his
whole face was spread a suggestion of appealing
innocence such as sometimes shines in the face of
a wondering child.
His shop was in the crowded Market. He
called it his studio. The sign, badly lettered in
red on a yellow ground, read : “ Edwardo Pink,
Artist, Painter, &c.” Not long ago it read:
“Edward Pink, Fancy Goods.” The change of
Edward to “Edwardo” was a concession to art
conventions, as the old man understood them.
His long, grey hair, carefully parted in the
centre, and falling smoothly to his shoulders, was
another. Edwardo would have preferred to have
worn it ruffled and leonine, but there were things
his wife would not endure, even in an artist, and
untidiness was one of these.
In spite of the new sign Edwardo’s neighbors in
the Market persisted in calling him “Old Ned.”
But the Market was not disrespectful. Really it
admired “Old Ned”; it was proud of him; it
took credit to itself for having produced an artist
who actually made pictures in red and blue and
green, and who was engaged on a mysterious
masterpiece that might yet be a standing adver-
tisement for the Market in the National Gallery.
In the window of Edwardo Pink’s studio many
wonderful water-colors invited the attention of
the passer-by, and a square foot of card, with
amazing purple scroll-work, bore the announce-
ment that “Painting, drawing, and all kinds of
artists’ work ” were done within at cheap rates.
There, too, was a large, musty, confused print of
one of Michael Angelo’s cartoons, labelled boldly :
“By Michael Angelo.” By its side, bravely in-
viting comparison, stood a painting of three
scarlet roses in a blue bottle, with the triumphant
legend: “By Edwardo Pink.” The Market looked
on this picture and on that, and realised in a
moment the enormous progress of Art since the
days of the Italian master.
Edwardo painted portraits, too, at astounding
prices ranging from half-a-crown to seven-and-
sixpence, according to the size of the sitter. His
picture of a market celebrity was on view, and
was recognised as a speaking likeness in spite of
the bluish hair and beard and the eccentric dis-
position of the right eye.
On the day on which I purchased the famous
“Two Cats Drinking,” and the “Bee on a Ger-
anium” —two authentic Pinks now in my posses-
sion—Edwardo was busy on a plaid fox-terrier to
the order of a dog-fancier in the Market. The
artist explained that he much preferred flower-
subjects, but, he said, the artist was not free to
follow closely the bent of his inspiration, being
forced to accept commissions for animal-paintings
and even to draw dog and cat-pictures for stock, as
a concession to popular taste.
The old man worked behind his counter; he
painted on cardboard with water-colors, using the
cheap boxes of small paints usually given to
children as toys; but for all that he found
material very expensive, being prodigal of color.
There were hundreds of pictures of all sizes on the
shelves behind him. These represented his stock.
They were nearly all flower-drawings at 6d. each,
with liberal reductions to anyone taking a
quantity. He admitted that he painted flower-
pictures very quickly and proudly displayed
his list before me, pointing out their qualities with
a trembling hand, and peering eagerly for signs
of appreciation. He showed roses that resembled
bits of underdone beef, and lilies that might have
done well as turnips. He was very prolific of
chrysanthemums. Chrysanthemums, he said, in
his thin, quavering voice, were the easiest kind of
art, because any color would do for a chrysanthe-
mum. No matter what mistakes you made, a
chrysanthemum could be found to match the re-
sult. He was proudest of his own flowers, the
flowers he invented. He paraded them as a
father might parade his beautiful babies, enlarg-
ing on their virtues in short, nervous sentences,
pathetically, childishly famishing for applause.
“ That ain’t no particular kind of flower,” he
said, holding up an astonishing creation, crude of
color, uncouth of form; “ it just came as I painted,
but it’s as pretty as if it grew, maybe.”
“Much more beautiful.”
“Eh? So it is—much more beautiful —much,
much! ” He squared his shoulders, his cheek
burned, and I did not repent the lie. “ I always
thought that,” he said, casting a timid eye
towards the door, “but I didn’t dare to say it.
You see his voice fell to a thin whisper—“ the
people in the market are very good ; but, between
you and me, mister, they don’t know Art.”
I praised his work again, using all my favorite
Art cant, and purchased two “invented” flowers
and a painting of a girl with a wry neck.
The old man grew under it, his head came up,
and his breast expanded.
“I’m glad you’ve come,” he said. “It’s good
to talk with someone who Knows. Now, none of
my friends really Know. Even the missus don’t
know ; though I’d never tell her, mind you—l’d
never tell her”
Great artists of the past, who toiled unknown,
and suffered the contumely of the unseeing and
the unlearned, were instanced, and Edwardo grew
more confidential and quite garrulous.
“ Do you know,” he said, in .a low voice, as if
fearful of making his secret known to the vulgar,
“ twelve months ago I had no idea I was an artist
—no idea in the world. I painted my own tickets
for my goods in the window, and sometimes put
little flowers in the corners, but I had no notion —
no notion, bless you ! It was Madame Vee who
told me. Have you been to madame ? She is the
great palmist two doors down. She read my
hand, and said that I should have been a great
artist. It disturbed me—it disturbed me ! I
couldn’t sleep for thinking of it. I worried
and worried. It made me ill, but in my
heart I knew it was true. I always
tried to draw things. If they put a pencil in my
hand when I was a mere child, I made pictures.
One afternoon I went to Professor Bonn, the
phrenologist, on the other side of the market. He
is very clever. He told me that Nature had meant
me for an artist —God’s intention had miscarried,
his chart said.”
Edward Pink’s tremulous hands knocked on the
counter, his head was thrown back, a great pride
glowed through the natural mildness of his coun-
tenance.
“I’ll be Great one day,” he said. “I’ll be
Famous ! This don’t pay as well as the fancy-
goods—not near so well; but it will—but it will! ”
I was positive it would. It seemed natural and
necessary to lie.
“Fame must come —it’s coming ! People talk
about Edwardo Pink now—ay, that they do ;
and when that is completed the world will talk of
me.” He pointed to an easel in a corner, covered
with a curtain. “ Not now,” he said, as I moved
towards it. “ Come again—come when it is more
advanced, and you shall see. I’ll show it to you
because you know Art and you can feel with the
artist, but I show it to no others.” He lowered
his voice in reverent egotism. “ It is my Master-
piece. ”
He produced more pictures—bundles of them —
all on skimpy bits of card, and spread them on the
counter in lavish array. It was so ludicrous
and yet so sad; saddest of all was the little
gleam of talent in the vastness of his rubbish—the
occasional touch that might show in the work of
a promising boy of nine—the set of a head, the
occasional trace of life, the reality of an expres-
sion, fitful and feeble, but hinting of a wasted
soul.
At this juncture a little, round old woman, with
red cheeks and a bouncing manner, entered. She
had a good-humored eye and mouth, and her face
lit with pride at the sight of Edwardo.
“My wife, mister,” he said.
She seemed to note his agitation, and led him
to his seat. Then she put his brush in his hand,
and, having lovingly smoothed down his hair with
her palm, left him nervously dabbing at his
flowers.
“ Did you want to buy some pictures, sir ? ” she
said.
Assuring herself that the artist was absorbed in
his work, she whispered : “If you ever want any
more, come when I am in the shop. I sell them
much cheaper. I sell all these at 3d. each.”
It was a shocking sacrifice, I assured her, on
my honor as an art-critic.
“ Oh, I don’t let Edwardo know, but sixpence
is too much. People can’t afford it, yet he will
not let them go under sixpence. He says he owes
it to his art. I sell them though, otherwise we
would not live. Sir,” she lowered her voice again ;
“ Art does not pay. We did well with the fancy -
goods, well enough to buy two small cottages, but
when my husband became an artist he gave up
the business, and now it is hard to live—very
hard. This Art is a mistake. I know Edwardo
is very clever, but people do not want art—they
want fancy-goods. Art is dying out.”
When I saw Edwardo Pink again he was look-
ing much older and was much more tremulous,
but still eager. He showed me his Masterpiece.
It looked like a brickfield in a fog, and my critic-
ism was a fine effort in vacillation, for I had not
the remotest idea what.it all might mean and was
fearful of committing myself.
“It —it —it’s beautiful ?” said the artist timor-
ously.
“Very,” I answered with emotion.
Edwardo expanded, laughed like a conqueror,
and his eye flashed. r
“Very beautiful,” he said emphatically. Very
—very beautiful! Edwardo Pink’s Masterpiece,
that, sir.” He passed a trembling;, caressing hand
over the garish smudge. “ There is my h ame, my
"fulfilVP /
“What will you call it?”
“ ‘ Cows Feeding ’ —just that.”
He showed me bundles of recent pictures, all
bad, painfully bad. He wept when I lied over
them, and I lied staunchly. One could not tell
the truth before the weak, twitching lips and
anxious, prying eyes of the artist.
A month later, walking in the main street, my
eye encountered a picture in a tailor’s window. I
drew-up. Surely I knew that touch ; those flaunt-
ing tulips, that tawdry vase afflicted with spinal
curvature. It was a true Pink. Presently 1 was
conscious of someone pressing at my side, and
looking down found Edwardo there, craning to
look into my face, eager to see what impression
his picture had made. At that moment he recog-
nised me, and clutched my arm.
“Ah, it is you ! ” he said, excitedly. “Why
have you not been to see me ? I wanted to tell
you. Come, come ; let me show you.” He dragged
me across the road, stumbling and muttering as
he went. He was now a mere wisp of a man, his
body was bent low, his limbs worked with strange
involuntary movements, and he was weak as a
child.
“At last! At last! ”he said, waving a feeble
hand in the air. “It has come, mister. I will
show you!”
He drew me to an hotel-door, and pointed out a
picture of his pinned on the bar wall.
“You see? You see?”
Further up the street there was one in a hair-
dresser’s window. There were two more in a
furniture shop.
“You see—you see!” he repeated, trium-
phantly. “It has come. I told you it would ! ”
Over the road again. He dragged me to the
stationer’s, where two more Pinks were displayed.
In three other shops were gorgeous flower-paint-
ings signed with his name, and at last he stopped,
exhausted, clinging to my arm for support, cough-
ing painfully and gasping : “ You see ! You see!”
“Is it success ? ” I asked.
“Success ! ” he stammered “It is Fame ! ”
About a month later I wandered to Edwardo
Pink’s studio, and found the shutters up and little
Mrs. Pink inside dressed in deep mourning, tying
the “stock” in various bundles. Edwardo had
been dead a week.
“He thought he was famous when he died,”
said the widow, whose tears began to flow at
the sight of me. “He said that all Aus-
tralia knew his name—but it didn’t, sir.” She
seemed to give me the latter fact in strict
confidence. “ I deceived my poor husband. I
gave people his pictures to put on their walls and
in their windows, because it pleased him so. He
thought that they had bought them, that every-
body was wanting his paintings, but really we
had not sold one for a long time. I deceived
him.” Pier voice broke, and she sobbed outright.
“I deceived my poor Edward. He thought
when he died that the Governor and the Chief
Justice and other great men would be his pall-
bearers. But they weren’t, sir”—this too was
strictly confidential—-“they weren’t. Only the
oyster-man, and the dog-fancier, and two others
from the saveloy-stalls ; but all the Market went
to his funeral. Ah, sir, Art is dying out. I’m
going to start the fancy-goods again.”
EDWARD DYSON.


Bad Blood ; Boils and Sores.
A Great Blood-Purifier and Tonic.
Almost Unbearable Heat of Summer Soon Puts
One in the Grave.
A Valuable Fever Antidote.
Sarsaparilla
“ While in West Australia one of ns had what is known as * Barcoo Sick-
ness,’ due to bad food and water, together with the almost unbearable summer
heat of that colony. This disease soon puts a man in his grave unless he treats
it promptly. I came out of it in fine shape because I relied entirely on Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla for a cure.
u doth of us have used this great remedy for boils and sores on our arms and
hands, as a blood-purifier and general tonic, and as a perfect antidote to fever
while in camp or at home. We both believe there is no remedy equal to this
grand old medicine we know so well.”
Dowling Eros., of 10.3 Hindley St., Adelaide, So. Australia, send ns this letter
and the above pnotographs with permission to use. After such an experience
ihey can certainly call Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“The World’s Greatest Family Medicine.”
Be sure you get the right kind of Sarsaparilla—“Ayer’s.” Don’t let any-
body induce you to try some other kind. You will regret it if you do.
If you are not in good, vigorous health, if your nerves are not so strong as
you wish if you are feeling run down and depressed, buy Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
today and begin the certain cure.
AYER’S S arsapariila
Builds up the Whole System.
AYER’S FILLS act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
FOR
24 Years
Qwbridge’s lung-Tonic
has been curing
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA,
WHOOPING-COUGH, CONSUMPTION,
until it has become
a Household Remedy, in all parts of the British
iilmpire, for Dispenses of the Throat and Lungs,
AVI lIN YOU ASIC FOR
©
1
Mf
BE SURE YOU GET IT.
No Colonial should ever he without this
invaluable Remedy , which saves many lives.
For outward application, instead of
poultices, use
OWBRIDGE’S EMBROCATION.
It is much safer, more effective,
and less troublesome.
Prepared by
W. T. OWBRIDGE, Chemist, Hull
Sold in bottles, at Is. 1 Jd., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d.,
and 11s., by all Colonial Chemists,
Store*, & Patent Medicine Vendors.
Wholesale of all London and
Colonial Houses.
corrmoHT.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
PE|? l H l A s M ’S
I? OR Bilious and Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headache*
Giddiness, Fulness and Swelling after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
ings of Heat, Loss of Appetite Shortness of Breath, Cosdveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, and all Nervous and Trembling Sensations, &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GIVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
earnestly invited to try one Box of these Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be " W OR>'TH A
GUINEA A BOX.”
BEECH AM’S PILLS, taken as directed, will quickly restore females to complete health. They
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of the system. For a
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic—a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing baok the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud op Health the Whole Physical Energy of the human frame. Ihese
are “facts” admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
Nervous and Debilitated is that Beecham’ s Pills have the Largest Sale- of any Patent Medicine in
he world . Full directions with each Box.
PREPARED ONLY BY
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Everywhere, in Boxes, 9£d, Is lid, and -s 9d. each.
PLAIN HOME TALK.
■MBRAcma
MEDICAL COMMON SENSE.
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
10 Plates. 86 Chromos. 200 Illustrations. 1000 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women bpth in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in
its fullest, sense, can afford to dispense with the imformation em-
braced in its covers.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, PLAIN HOME TALK,
posted for only 7s. 6d.
Speeches and Toasts ready-made for all occasions and
everybodv ; public speaking made easy. i s 6d post.
Practical Palmistry (latest). Post Is od.
Dr. Carver's Tricks asp Diversions irm Cards, Ulus.
Is ; post is lid.
Beauty's Secrets. Post free Is.
How to Bbcomr a Ventriloquist ; post free Is. Tub
Art ok Wrestling, post Is.
Love and Parentage, 8d posted.
Modern Etiquette—Parties,Love,Dress, etc. l«6dpost.
Every Man His Own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate
One's Self, Is 6d posted. Clog Dancing Tutor, Is.
Aust. Miner's Guide ; simple tests for minerals. 3s 6d.
Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate, Dreamer’s
Sure Guide ; price Is, post Is 3d.
How to Dance, new work. Is posted.
Secrets op Ancient and Modern Magic. Is 6d post free.
Art of Boxing, by Ned Donnelly, 40 illus. Is6d posted.
Lover’s Letter Writer, Is post. General Litter
Writer,'ls 6d.
Iron Ned Kelly and His Gang (only true history).
Is 6d posted.
Edith O’Gorman’s Content Life Unteilbd, Is6d post.
Up-to-Datk Comic Reciter (newest), Is 6d post free.
How to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), Is (id posted.
Ciievassi’s Advice to a Mother, 3s 6d posted.
Wonderful Budget Song Book, over 300 latest songs,
Is 3d post free.
G. W. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s ea. posted.
Physiognomy, is 3d posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is 6d posted.
Every. Man His Own Carpenter, Is 6d posted.
NOTE.— SIR ROBERT BEAR wishes here to notify his Patrons (old and new) that
the numerous SPECIALLY INTERESTING AND RARE BOOKS hitherto advertised
by him are still obtainable as before. Want of space prevents mentioning any in particu-
lar. Hundreds of SPECIAL Books—most of which can only be obtained from him—are
advertised in his ILLUSTRATED BIG BOOK CATALOGUE, sent Post Free anywhere.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 16 Park Street, sypney.
ie Jolliest Book of'the Year.
»ON OUR SELECION,” by Steele Rudd.
Co., Ltd., Sydney.
GLim
uull
PffKfVMC
3
FARRINGDOH AVENUfI
LONDON. \
TO
SINGERS X SPEAKERS
ye
fet
o
r
*
/Q)
BOMMNrGTON'S
IRISHMOSS
GEORGE BONNINGTO**
*-N.ninif» id*
Bronchitis, Coughs and
ACTION.
D QUICKLY
Colds


SYDNEY
Rubber Works
MANUFACTURERS OF
Sheet Rubber, Rubber Bings,
Washers, Boilers,
Valves, Buffers,
Gas Tubing, &c.
Works :
CAREY STREET, off Birkenhead Road.
City Office :
PERDRIAU & CO.,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Brush Electrical
Engineering Co. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS,
MANUFACTURERS
AND
CONTRACTORS.
56 Margaret Street, Sydney;
38 Queen Street, Melbourne;
Brookman’s Building, Adelaide.
Any Bushman Will Tell
you to use
Row’s Crobrocatioi?
for Cuts, Sprains, Bruises, Rheumatism,
and Stiffness of Joints it. MAN and
BEAST. As unscrupulous persons are
offering injurious counterfeits,
SEE THAT YOU GET
Row’s Civhrocatioi).
THE WORTHINGTON
IS THE ORIGINAI
DUPLEX PUMP.
WORTHINGTON COMPOUND
Sole Australasian Representatives
WORTHINGTON.
TRADE MARK.
Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
■
PLATE and
CUTLERY,
J. & J. MAXFIELP, Proprs., SHEFFIELD,
Empire Chambers, 93 York St.,
SYDNEY.
Also at
“THE ,33X-003EC,»»
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THIS LADIES.
W- G- Sc CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 It OK fc .STIC »'-«•;SJTDIVIi V
(Opp. Ceutenary Hall).
Country Orders by pout from dll the colonies promptly
attended to.
George and
Market-Sts.
Board or Apartments at Option.
THE MOST NUTRITIOUS.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING.
COCOA
BREAKFAST—SUPPER.
The same
cream,
pleased to
remarks that apply to milk apply equally to butter. Pasteurised butter is made from the very finest
consequently the butter has a fine aroma that only Pasteurisation can give. There are a few, we are
say, only a few, idiotic folks who will not be convinced of the value of the process; but it is satisfactory
to know that these are getting less daily. The difference in price between Pasteurised, beautifully-flavored butter and the
ordinary make is only |d. per lb. It would pay consumers well to give six times this difference. Heads of households should insist
that their grocer supplies Pasteurised butter, and if he will not, Bend yOlir Orders to US, and we will deliver it at your doors.
Good butter such as we have described is appreciated always, whereas at afternoon teas or for ordinary use
siit any price. The famous “Berry” brand Pasteurised butter can be obtained only from this Company.
bad butter
H. PATESON, Manager,
, Harbor-street, Sydney.
COMPRESSORS,
. Ingersoll-Sergeant Rock Drills and Air Compressors hold the highest
average records throughout the world. They have met and defeated in fair competition
every machine brought against them, and have never failed to sustain their reputation for
doing the most work at the least expense. Write for Catalogue to
The Representatives in Australia of
ROCK
DRILLS
“ New IngersoSl.
THE INGERSOLL-
CO.,
PARKE & LACY G°l L T .?
w _s."w.
/ ■■
an
“DUPLEX”
Vertical & Horizontal,
Suitable for every Pumping-
Purpose.
ESTIMATES given for
Complete Pumping - Plants,
including Boilers, Piping,
Valves, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
S. FREEMAN + SONS gJMITEP
Millers, Manufacturers, and Importers.
SPECIALTIES:
BATHOS BAKING POWDER
FREEMAN’S PRIZE PICKLES.
S EXTRACT OF SOAP. BLUE (Bag or Square).
BLACKING. VINEGAR. FLOUR.
TOMATO SAUCE. JELLY CRYSTALS.
hbadotfice: WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
far - A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
II OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
JTI There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof these grand medicines have not been
recognised hv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, THY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., Ixmdon. pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
ROCNEST€R LOP6C
Melbourne.
Private Boarding Establishment.
Central and Healthy Position in the
Cjty-, Within three minutes’ walk ,of Tow» Uafi
Close trains, trains and theatres.
Terms Modeatre.
Ills. M'GLELLAWD,
-Propriefcrew
